MORPHINOMANIA AND 448 ALLIED DRUG HABITS These sufferings are of various kinds—a peculiar uneasy sensation in the muscles, a " horrible sensation" as one patient called it, and could give no further description, though he had no mean command of language ; also actual agonis- ing pain in the bones and the neighbourhood of the joints, " as if he had been beaten with sticks or the bones broken." Again, intense pain of a gnawing character in the stomach, "as if rats were gnawing at his stomach," the very ex- pression used by Mr. Addington and Dean Carlisle, as the patient pointed out to me after- wards when he read De Quincey. There is great irritability of the stomach, so that little or no food can be retained. Frequently there is polyuria, causing intense thirst, and com- monly there is profuse diarrhoea, which may indeed become so excessive and exhausting as to threaten or terminate life I have been forced to stop the treatment and give liberal doses of opium to check this dangerous symptom, but it was given in the form of pill, not by hypodermic injection. This stage of excitement is gradually replaced by a' condition of profound exhaus- tion through which the sufferings still con- tinue. Frequently hallucinations and delirium appear, with marked tremor, closely resembling the delirium tremens of alcoholism. Sleep is absolutely banished, and as food cannot be re- tained, the patient is in a few days reduced to extreme prostration, which may end fatally even if he has survived so long. Indeed, Dr. Levinstein, who advocated the abrupt with- drawal method, says "they most frequently become violent and suicidal, and out of a large number only 25 per cent recovered." ^ These symptoms are then so grave and alarming that the abrupt withdrawal method cannot be advocated except in rare instances, where the patient is strong and robust, where the habit has not become confirmed by long use, and the dose has not been excessive. Erlenmeyer recognising the gravity of these ahstinenz symptome advocated the rapid with- drawal method, cutting off the whole supply of morphia by largely diminishing doses in from six to twelve days. This method, however, though preferable to the abrupt method in that the danger is diminished, leaves much to be desired; the abstinenz &ymptome appear, and though temporarily a little allayed at each injection, do not disappear, and the patient's sufferings are really prolonged. Erlenmeyer himself recognises this, and in 1896 wrote that " for three years he had abandoned the method associated with his name."^ The gradual method is then the one which has found most favour with those in a position to form the best judgments. A case of Dr. Braithwaite's will best illustrate this method. The patient was in the habit of taking 40 grains of morphia a 1 Scribncr's Monthly, vol. xx. j). 416. Prog, inidicale, 1st August 1896. day.i The treatment began with 30 grains, and gradual reduction took place till the forty- second day, when none was given. The injections were given only three times daily; he got 30 grains of bromide of soda at night, 3j. Easton's syrup three times in twenty-four hours. One other plan of very gradual withdrawal may in some cases be efficacious. A solution is obtained of the strength used by the patient. Every syringeful withdrawn from the bottle is replaced by an equal quantity of distilled or boiled water. By this means the dose is dim- inished by infinitesimal degrees, till at last the patient is getting none of the drug at all. From what has been said it is obvious that it will be almost an absolute necessity for treat- ment that the patient is removed from his own home, and placed in a special asylum where he can be watched and nursed. It is very excep- tional to find any case of successful home treat- ment of morphinism. It is better that he should not associate with any other patient suffering in the same way, as they will constantly talk of themselves, their doses and pains, and will often plot to carry out some deception to obtain their drug. Besides this, the more the thoughts and conversation run on morphia the harder is it to recover the lost will-power that is so necessary for the strviggle. Their surroundings should be comfortable, bright, and cheerful. Their medical and nursing attendants should be attentive, kind, firm, and sympathetic. A good tactful female nurse is much superior to a male nurse. In a case in which the habit was not of long duration, where the daily dose was only 4 to 5 grains and I adopted the abrupt plan, the patient was controlled and tided over his period of misery, raving, violence, and despair by a young, physically weak, but firm, kindly, and sympathetic female nurse. He was in a private hospital and not under restraint. It is almost certain that with a male nurse, or with any physically strong but less sympathetic attendant, he would have thrown aside all control, left the house, and taken again to his "needle," if he had not done worse by using violence to himself and others. Besides these general considerations of the treatment, there are some particulars that should receive further attention. While dimin- ishing the dose of morphia valuable help may be obtained from atropine ; it arrests the profuse secretions, tending to prevent the occurrence of diarrhoea, and is said to materially allay the ' Treatment extending over forty-one days, usual dose 40 grains per diem :— lst-2nd day, 30 grs. 32nd-36th day, 1 grain. 3rd „ m„ 37th 41st ,, i 4th-6th „ 7i„ 42nd-!'i6th ,, 5 ,, 7th-8th 9th-Kith 4 , 1 injection thrice daily. 17th-23rd 3 30 gr, Xa. Br. each night. 24th-27th 2 3j. Kaston's syrup thrice 28th-31st daily.