511 MYOPIA by the antero-posterior axis of the eye-ball being too long for the focal length of the eye; individuals suffering from this visual defect have a habit of partially closing the eyelids to improve their sight (Gr. /j.v<d, I shut, and wij/, the eye). See Asthenopia (^Refractive); Choroid, Diseases of {Myopic choroiditis); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis, Etiology); Refraction {Myopia); Rbtinoscopy {Myopia); Vision, Field of. MyopiesiS.—Massage of the muscles. MyOpIeglSLm—Muscular paralysis. MyoporthosiS. — The correction of myopia (Gr. jjLvwij/, short-sighted, and 6p66s, straight). Myorrhaphy.—The union (by suturing) of separated muscular strands {e.g. of the recti abdominis in ventral hernia). Myorrhexis.—Tearing of muscle. Myosin.—A proteid substance (globulin) formed by the clotting of myosinogen (another globulin) in the muscle substance after death, and leading to the production of rigor mortis See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Chemistry of). Myosinogen. See Myosin. MyOSiS.—Contraction, e.g. of the pupil. See Pupil {Reflex). Myositis.—Inflammation of muscle. See Chest-Wall, Affections of {Affections of Muscles of Chest); Hemoglobinuria {In Acute Myositis); Muscles, Diseases op {Inflammatory Diseases, Polymyositis, Neuromyositis, etc.); New-born Infant {Hcsmatoma of Sterno-Mastoid); Rheu- matism, Chronic {Chronic Myositis); Rheuma- tism, Chronic {Muscular Rheumatism); Syphilis ( Visceral Syphilis, Muscles and Tendons). Myositis Ossificans.—A variety of myositis characterised by the formation of os- seous deposits in the muscles; it may follow an injury {myositis ossificans traumatica) and it may involve one muscle after another {myositis ossificans progressiva). Myospasm. See Cramp. MyOStromin.—An insoluble proteid of muscle. See Physiology, Tissues {Chemistry of Muscle). MyOSUruS.—A genus of the Ranun- culaceae, of which the mousetail {Myosurus Minimus) was once in the Pharmacopoeia (as an astringent). Myotatic irritability.—A state of tension of the muscle showing itself in the phenomena known as tendon reflexes. See Paralysis {Spastic, Myotatic Irritability); Pneumonia, Clinical {Physical Signs, Myotatic Irritability of Pectoral Muscles); Lung, Tuber- culosis of {Symptoms). Myotenotomy.—The surgical division of muscles and tendons. See Deformities. Myotics.—Drugs which cause myosis or contraction of the pupil, e.g. pilocarpine, opium, physostigmine, and anaesthetics. See Glaucoma {Treatment, Myotics). Myotome.—A tenotomy knife ; also (in Embryology, q.v.) the muscular part of a mesoblastic segment (which consists of myotome, sclerotome, and dermatome). Myotomy.—Section of a muscle. Myotonia or Myotonus.—Muscu- lar tone, tension, or spasm, e.g. in myotonia congenita (Thomsen's disease) or in myotonia acquista. See Muscles, Diseases of {Myotonia Congenita). Myriachit.—Saltatory spasm, Latah, or "Jumpers." ,S'ee Latah. Myriapoda. See Myiasis {Insect Stings and Bites, Myriapioda). Myrici n.—A constituent of wax, consisting mostly of palmitate of myricyl (CjQHgj.Cj^HgjOg). Myricyl Alcohol.—An alcohol ob tained from beeswax (melissyl palmitate), having the formula C3QHgjOH ; melissyl alcohol. Myringitis.—Inflammation of the tym- panic membrane. See Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane {Inflammation). Myringodectomy or Myringec- tomy.—Excision of the tympanic membrane (in whole or in part). MyringOmyCOSiS.—Mycotic disease of the tympanic membrane; it is due to a fungus {Aspeij^illus). Myringoplasty.—A plastic or repara- tive operation on the membrana tympani. See Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane. Myringotomy.—Incision of the mem- brana tympani, the instrument used being termed a myringotome. Myristica. See Nutmeg. MyristiC Acid. — A monobasic acid (CjgHjy.CO.OH) found in oil of nutmeg, cocoa- nut oil, etc. Myristicene.—A hydrocarbon (Ci(,Hjg) found in oil of nutmeg. MyristiCOl.—An oily substance (CjgHigO) found in oil of nutmeg.