LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 103 difficulty in diagnosis. The condition occurs mainly in children, in whom syphilis and cancer are not likely to occur. Simple chronic en- largement usually remains limited to the group of glands first affected, is seldom very great, and yields to the removal of the exciting cause. The safest rule is, when in doubt, to consider the glands tubercular and to enjoin an out-of- door life, careful feeding, and the other elements of anti-tubercular hygiene. A stay at the sea- side is often very useful in early cases. Of other measures, the first in importance and in time should be a careful examination of the mouth and pharynx, and the radical removal of any source of mischief there. Cod-liver oil and arsenic both have a good effect, mainly, I think, by diminishing periadenitis, and these may be assisted by iodine or other absorbent remedy externally. Under this regimen a large number of cases will show great improvement, and the tubercles ultimately become obsolete; but it can only be carried out properly in the case of children of people in good circumstances, and a large proportion of cases will always require surgical interference. This proportion is made up of cases where, in spite of general treatment, the disease continues to progress, either by the involvement of fresh glands or by an increase of periadenitis, or the threatening of suppuration, and of cases seen for the first time where the mass is too large to give any hope of healing, or where suppuration has occurred or is imminent. When surgical inter- ference is undertaken it should, if possible, be with the knife, not with the spoon, and should be as thorough as possible. Not a single affected or possibly-affected gland should be left, unless insuperable difficulties present them- selves. Half-hearted operations are worse than useless, and it is they which are followed by miliary tuberculosis and which threatened at one time to bring operative interference in these cases into disrepute. Chronic glandular enlargements due to syphilis are of three kinds—the bubo following on the primary chancre; the general slight indolent enlargement of the second stage; and third, gummatous deposit in glands, or the enlargement of glands from absorption from a breaking-down gumma. (See "Syphilis.") Enlargements in General Diseases. — In the majority of cases this is due to an acute lymph- adenitis from absorption. The inflamed pharynx, etc., in scarlatina, diphtheria, measles, and rotheln, causes enlargement of the associated glands by the absorption either of the causal organisms, of their toxins, or of associated organisms such as the pus-producers. Enlarge- ment in erysipelas, glanders, plague, etc., takes place on the same lines, with this important difference in the case of plague, that it is quite exceptional that one is able to locate the original point of inoculation. The general lymphatic enlargement which occurs in the secondary stage of syphilis and in some cases of anthrax is probably due to a different cause: the poison is not brought to the glands by the lymph, but by the blood, and the enlargement represents a more or less successful attempt on the part of the glands to protect themselves from infection. The enlargement due to leucocythsemia has already been discussed. (See " Leucocythsemia," vol. V.) In regard to the secondary growths due to malignant disease, there are one or two points of importance. In the first place the old dictum that cancer spreads by the lymphatics, and sar- coma by the blood-vessels, is only partly true. Cancer spreads by the blood-vessels in many cases, and in many cases sarcoma spreads by the lymphatics. Metastatic cancerous growths —from the mamma, for instance—do not in all cases mean that the whole lymphatic chain through the axilla to the thoracic duct has been affected, though they may have that meaning. They may mean also that the cancer has made its way into veins either in or near the original growth, or a secondary lym- phatic one, and that cancerous emboli have been caught and have found an opportunity of growth in internal organs or elsewhere. Similarly, some sarcomata always give rise to infection of the glands to which the organ they affect is related. Sarcomata arising in the tonsil, for instance, cause secondary growths in the related glands, even when they are not lymphosarcomata in the histological sense. The practical point arising out of this is that the surgeon in removing sarcomata should be as anxious to discover and remove affected glands as when he is dealing with a carcinoma. The next part to be remembered in this connection is that, while it is usually easy to recognise glands which are wholly cancerous or sarco- matous, it is quite impossible by naked-eye examination to determine whether slightly in- fected glands are diseased or not ] and while the removal of the primary focus, and the con- sequent stoppage of the supply of fresh infective material, may enable the gland to overcome the cancer cells present in it, it may not do so. It is wiser, therefore, to remove too much than too little. Lymphatic oedema may occur from the obliteration of lymph-vessels, but usually disappears in time, and, as I have already mentioned, lymph-vessels and glands are easily regenerated. Lymphadenoma.—The question of the real nature of this disease and its relation to leuco- cythsemia on one side, generalised glandular tuberculosis on another, and lymphosarcoma on the third, is one of the most difficult problems in medicine, and one whose solution we are as yet very far from having attained. The number of names proposed and used for the