112 MACULE CORNER Maculae Corneae.—Opacities in the cornea. 8ee Cornea. Maculae HepatiCSe.—The pigmented spots of chloasma, lentigo or pityriasis versicolor. Maculae Lividae.—The spots of pur- pura or of other skin diseases accompanied by haemorrhages. Macular. — Having the character of pigmented spots, e.g. the macular syphilides. See Syphilis (^Acquired, Affections of the Skin). MacUlO-papular.—Having the char- acter of botli a papule and a macule, used in the description of certain skin diseases. MadarOSiS.—Loss of hair or baldness (Gr. fxaSapo^, bald), especially madarosis ciliaris, loss of the eyelashes. Maddox Rod Test.—The use of the Maddox Tangent Strabismometer to detect binocular vision. See Eye, Clinical Examina- tion OF {Test for Binocular Vision); Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Abnormal Position, Test); Strabismus (Strabometry). Madeira. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Islands of the South Atlantic). Madelung^'s Malady. — Diffuse lipoma of the neck; Madelung's neck (Germ. Madelung-Fetthals). Madness. See Insanity. Madura Foot.—Mycetoma (q.v). See also Actinomycosis {Affinities). Mag^endie's Foramen.—The fora- men by means of which communication is established between the fourth ventricle of the brain and the subarachnoid space. See Brain, Physiology of {Lym2:)hatic Circulation) ; Men- inges of the Cerebrum {Anatomy). Magrendie's Spaces.—The lymph spaces lying between the cerebral pia mater and the arachnoid, corresponding to the sulci of the underlying brain. Maggots. See Myiasis {Myiasis Nariuni, etc.) ; Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. {Parasites of the Nose). Magistral.—In Pharmacy the term is applied to a medicine made up (by prescription) for a special case or occasion; not ofhcinal ; also, specially or supremely effective or sovereign. Magnan'S Sign. —An hallucination of feeling {e.g. the sensation of a foreign body under the skin) observed in cases of chronic cocaine poisoning. See Morpiiinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Cocaine Habits). Magnesium. See also Pharmacology ; Toxicology {Rritants, Epsom Salts); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Metals).—Symbol, Mg. ; atomic weight, 24'18. Magnesium is employed therapeutically in the form of the following salts. 1. Magnesii Sulphas. Epsom Salts. Soluble 1 in 1 of water. Z»ose—30-120 grs. repeated; 3 for a single administration. Preparation—Magnesii Sulphas Effervescens, made in the same manner as other effervescing salines. Dose—1-4 5 repeated ; \-\ 5 for a single administration. Magnesium sulphate is contained in Mistura Sennse Composita. 2. Magnesii Carbonas Ponderosus. Feebly soluble in water. Dose—5-30 grs repeated ; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. Preparation— Liquor Magnesii Carbonatis. Fluid magnesia. A clear effervescing liquid containing carbonic acid gas under pressure. Each fluid ounce represents 10 grs. of the carbonate. Dose—1-2 3. 3. Mag7iesia Carbonas Levis. Very insoluble. Dose-—5-30 grs. repeated ; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. 4. Magnesia Ponderosa. Heavy magnesium oxide. Very insoluble. Dose—5-30 repeated ; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. 5. Magnesia Levis. Light magnesium oxide. Very feebly soluble. Dose —5-30 grs. repeated; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. Magnesia is contained in Pulvis Rhei Compositus. The action of the salts of magnesium is entirely confined to the alimentary canal. The quantity absorbed from the intestine is too minute to allow of any action on the blood or kidneys. It has been found that if introduced directly into the blood stream they have a poisonous effect particularly on the respiratory centre. Magnesium sulphate is widely em- ployed as a purgative. In concentrated solu- tion it causes a large outflow of fluid into the intestine with increase of peristalsis, and induces copious watery evacuation of the bowels. In this form it is a useful occasional purgative in constipation associated with liver disorder, in gout, in dropsy, in ascites, and in the puer- perium when it is desired to suppress the secre- tion of milk. It is commonly given some hours after a mercui-ial purge in order to complete the action of the latter. When administered over long periods magnesium sulphate should be employed in dilute solution, as in one or other of the popular mineral waters. Large doses are somewhat depressing, and are not suitable for old or feeble s\ibjects. "Henry's solution," containing magnesium sulphate and distilled water in equal proportions with a little dilute sulphuric acid, is a favourite method of ad- ministering salts either by the mouth or in the form of an enema. Magnesium citrate (non- ofiicial) is a mild purgative given in doses of from 20-120 grains. The sulphates of sodium and magnesium have given good results in the treatment of dysentery. Dilute solutions of