334 MENOPAUSE, THE struation, and with an early menopause. This view accords with the other faii-ly familiar observation, that in women who have the menopause early it usually lasts longer and is the cause of more serious discomfort than it is in women who get it at or about fifty. In exceptional cases the menopause occurs in quite early adult life. The writer has seen it appear at twenty-eight and at thirty-one, and has heard of still earlier cases. Usually the subjects of extremely early menopause have either had some great shock, or a long exhausting illness, or menstruation has come on very late and has always been scanty and irregular. Occasionally the menopause immediately follows a parturi- tion, and in this case it is probably due to superin volution of the uterus. In profound anaemia and in many constitiitional diseases the catamenia are, as a rule, absent, but there are in these cases none of the other ordinary symptoms of the menopause, no flushes, no nervous disturbance. The patients lose nothing because they have nothing to spare. It is probable that the circulation is too languid to respond to the ovarian stimulation, and that the ovaries themselves are not at fault. When in these cases the quality of the blood is favour- ably changed by iron, arsenic, etc., the loss reappears. In the presence of uterine fibroids, on the other hand, the menopause is often unduly postponed. It may be delayed to fifty- five or fifty-six, or even later, and this in cases where the patient is for part of each month profoundly anaemic from the severity of the loss she has to bear. Possibly in these cases the blood-making powers are above par, as they are thought to be in haemophilia, and that the same abnormal nutritional stimulus which leads to the formation of the fibroids keeps the ovarian nerves active to an unusually late age. The fact that the menopause is so often greatly delayed, in the presence of uterine myomata, has a practical bearing when consider- ing the propriety of advising hysterectomy for menorrhagia due to fibroids in a woman of forty-four or forty-five. A condition which might be borne patiently for a short time would practically do away with much of the value of life if it is to last for ten or more years. There seems to be no clear evidence that the ovaries form any " internal" secretion of great nutritive value, or that they manufacture any- thing at all comparable in importance with the secretions of the thyroid, pancreas, or supra- renal capsules. The disturbance seen at the menopause is nervous rather than nutritional or chemical. It is also more or less temporary in the great majority of cases, and even the artificial menopause is, as a rule, in time recovered from. As opposed to this view, however, there is the tendency to put on flesh, which so often coincides with the menopause. and which seems to be directly related to inactivity or imperfect development of the ovaries. The exact mode in which the influence of the ovaries makes itself felt on nutrition is still far from clear. Perhaps the worst thing that can be said of the menopause is that it indicates and heralds the wearing out of that part of the organism which is specially connected with the maturity of the individual, and that when wearing out begins, other signs of the degeneration of tissues may not be long in appearing. It seems, too, as if the organs specially concerned with the menopause—i.e. the ovaries, uterus, and mammary glands—are unusually prone to develop degenerative or malignant disease when they approach, or have recently passed, the term of their active functional life. It is useless to speculate as to the meaning of this till some solid knowledge has been gained as to the real nature of malignant disease. It is not, however, necessary to assume that the menopause is the cause of such disease. They may both be results of one antecedent condition, that of wearing out or degeneration, and they may not be in any other way connected. Practically, the great prone- ness of women near the climacteric to malignant disease should never for a moment be forgotten. It is the gravest of mistakes to attribute hastily and without careful examination everything that is abnormal in women between forty-five and fifty to the menopause, and to ignore their great liability to serious organic disease Many precious lives are wasted every year by assum- ing that symptoms which call for most careful and thorough examination may safely be treated as of no consequence because the menopause is probably at hand. Every case of abnormal uterine haemorrhage, for instance, ought to be s^idied as carefully in a woman of forty-seven as in one of thirty. The menopause should never be credited as the effective cause of any serious objective symptom in the absence of direct and painstaking investigation. The diagnosis of "change of life" is a very refuge of the destitute to the indolent and ignorant, and as such it should be shunned with care by all honest practitioners. This is, however, consistent with admitting, which may freely be done, that abnormal haemorrhage may be, and often is, due solely to the irregular con- dition of the uterine circulation during the menopause. Vaso-motor weakness may be the sole cause of congestion which leads up to serious haemorrhage. All that is now urged is that organic disease should be carefully looked for, and that the menopause should not be invoked as the sufficient cause of important symptoms in the absence of careful examination. Next in importance to the liability of women at this age to malignant disease, and to the strain it puts upon their nervous stability, is the fact that in a large number of cases the