LUNACY 13 refractory, and for the suicidal except in the very few cases where the means of the patient or family admit of adequate medical super- vision, and of nursing by day and night. No patients, private or pauper, should be sent to an asylum who can be equally, if not better, cared for in a private dwelling in which the minimum of restriction is placed upon his liberty. Too great care cannot be bestowed upon the filling up of the certificates, and before doing so the marginal and foot notes should be read. The mere fact that the cer- tificate has been carefully and accurately filled up will indicate to the judicial authority, who seldom or never sees the patient, the necessity to grant a warrant or order for committal. The usual certificate requires the certifier, after having, separately from any other medical man, visited the patient, to state, first, facts indicating insanity observed by himself; and, second, facts indicative of insanity communicated by others before or after he has seen the patient. It is a safe course often to give the ipsissima verba of the lunatic, supplementing them by saying whether they amount to a delusion, hallucination, or illusion. It is of importance to describe correctly the name and designation of the patient, and likewise the names and designations of those who volunteer informa- tion regarding the supposed lunatic, whether relations or not. A word of advice and caution is necessary in regard to certificates bearing upon testamen- tary capacity and sanity. A lunatic may make a valid will; but unless certification of testamentary capacity has been got at the time the will or codicil was signed, the pre- sumption in law is that the will is invalid. In any case wills made under such circum- stances are, as a rule, either contested or compromised. The examination of a would-be testator should, if possible, be conducted alone, or, if that be not possible, in the presence of a disinterested party. Regard should be had to his physical condition, the degree of memory and judgment present, his conversation in regard to his own affairs, to his family and relations, to things in which he is specially interested, as well as to topics of general interest. In apliasics,i hemiplegics, mild cases of senile dementia, as well as other forms of mental enfeeblement, in which there are grounds for believing in the existence of a willing or disposing mind, it is not only advisable to do what has been already suggested, but to test whether the document is his own, and has not been suggested by others, and to put the contrary or a diff"erent proposition, as well as something quite unusual in regard to individuals or institutions or schemes to be benefited under the will. The certificate should be on soul and conscience, and accurate as to time, name, and ^ Aphasia, Sir F. Bateman and W. Elder. designation of testator. The questions and answers, if advisable, should be noted at the time; and, if a second visit be necessary, to repeat these, as well as any others which in the interval may strike the examiner as essential. A person of means may be unable to make a just will if he be in the false belief that he is destitute or nearly so, or that his relatives have turned against him. Delusions do not bar testamentary capacity, unless they have some direct bearing on the property, or on the relations of the testator to relatives and friends, and are of course groundless. What the suffi- cient mental capacity necessary to make a valid will may be can never be definitely expressed; but if a will be in itself fairly reasonable, or consistent with expressed intentions while possessed of a disposing mind, it will be difficult to get a jury to upset it. A certificate of sanity to remove disabilities incurred requires the same care and considera- tion as that of insanity. It means for the insane, other than congenital cases, a second charter of liberty, and all that that implies in regard to himself, his family, his affairs, and to society. Certification, Visitation, etc.—In regard to certification ^ the policy of the statutes seems to be that the certificate accompanying a recep- tion order shall not be signed by persons, first, interested in or connected with the supposed lunatic, and, second, interested in or connected with the institution or private dwelling in which he is to be detained. And thus it is a medical certificate accompanying an urgency order or a petition for a reception order must be signed by a medical practitioner other than the peti- tioner or person signing an urgency order, or than husband or wife, father or father-in-law, mother or mother-in-law, son or son-in-law, daughter or daughter-in-law, sister or sister-in- law, partner or assistant of such petitioner or person. It is also forbidden that either of the persons signing the medical certificate in support of a petition for a reception order shall stand in certain specified relationships to the supposed lunatic, and they must be independent and unconnected with each other, and with the person taking charge of the patient. Chancery Lunatics in England.—In regard to Chancery patients, of whom in 1899 there were 880 in institutions and in private dwellings, two medical affidavits have to be sent to the Lord Chancellor along with the petition. At the inquisition, before a Master in Lunacy, with or without a jury as the patient decides, the mental condition is fully inquired into, ^ Forms are to be had for England and Wales from Messrs. Shaw & Sons, Fetter Lane, London, E.G. ; for Scotland, from Messrs. T. & A. Constable, Edinburgh ; for Ireland, from H.M. Stationery Office, Dublin (Dept. I forms), and the Clerks to Asylum Committees for others.