191 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF never movable within the substance of the breast, nor can it be shelled out in the same way as a fibro-adenoma. Moreover, the capsule is generally incomplete, and, microscopically, it is seen to be invaded by the tumour cells ; it is therefore to be regarded as a part of the tumour, and the mere enucleation of the latter is certain to be followed by recurrence. Local dissemination takes place mainly along the connective-tissue sheaths of the blood-vessels, while general disseminntion is the result of the tumour cells gaining access to the lumen of the embryonic blood-vessels of the tumour. The lung, liver, and brain are the most frequent seats of metastatic growths. Clinically, the sarcomata present themselves usually as well- c i r c u m scribed rounded tumours, without adhesion to the skin or re- traction of the nipple. The rate of growth varies considerably ac- cording to the histological struc- ture of the tumour. Excluding the melanotic variety, the small round- celled sarcomata and the lympho- sarcomata are the most malignant, and sooner or later infect the axillary glands. In a few months the breast is converted into a prominent hemispherical tumour of large size; the skin is stretched and may have a dusky-red colour ; the cutaneous veins are generally dilated. There is often a general as well as a local elevation of temperature. Ultimately the skin gives way, leading to the protrusion of a very vascular fungating mass. Death results from exhaustion generally within a year. On section the tumour presents a homogeneous appearance, which in colour and consistency so closely resembles the grey matter of the brain that the terms medullary or encephaloid were applied to these tumours by older writers. If the tumour be large, the centre is generally converted into a degeneration cyst the result of hfemorrhage and mucoid softening, the contents of the cyst consisting of an amber or more or less chocolate-coloured, viscid fluid. The spindle-celled forms are firmer and of slower growth. On section they are pinkish white and somewhat fasciculated and fibrous- looking, due to the fact that the cells are arranged in bundles parallel to the blood- vessels. They never present the cleft-like spaces or foliaceous appearance characteristic of the fibro-adenomata. While they display a marked tendency to recur locally they do not appear to infect the axillary glands, and they seldom give rise to general metastasis. According to Gross, the myeloid sarcomata of the breast never give rise either to glandular or to general infection. Diagnosis.—The small round-celled sarcomata are to be distinguished from the acute infiltrat- ing carcinomata by their softer consistence, by fIG. 13.—Vertical slice through a large small-round-celled sarcoma of the mamma, removed by Prof. Chiene from a woman, set. 50. The central part of the tumour is converted into a large degeneration cyst, the result of mucoid softening; the peripheral portion presents the typical encephaloid appearance of such tumour. The axillary glands were also sarcomatous and presented a similar appearance. the absence of the brawny induration and characteristic infiltration of the skin, and by the comparatively late infection of the axilla. Occasionally a diagnostic incision is necessary before a rapidly-growing sarcoma can be dis- tinguished from a general mastitis or a thick- walled abscess. The less malignant forms are distinguished from the fibro-glandular tumours by their lack of mobility and by the absence of cysts. Treatment.—-The treatment of true sarcomata of the breast is practically the same as that for carcinoma. The axilla should be opened. The numerous operations which are recorded as having been performed on the same patient for recurrent sarcoma of the breast would not have been necessary if the first operation had been sufficiently radical. Moi-eover, it must be re-