NEPHRITIS 555 and the double chloride of gold and sodium has been used in the United States in doses of from grain to yp- grain once or twice a day. Although complaint may be made of the in- crease in the amount of urine, it is not advisable to attempt to diminish the polyuria, though belladonna may be used to control the frequency of nocturnal micturition. The diet requires careful regulation, since the appetite is com- monly poor and capricious, and dyspeptic symp- toms are frequent. When severe dyspepsia and vomiting occur late, they are to be regarded as of ursemic origin and dealt with accordingly. (See treatment of Chronic Nephritis.) In the earlier stages vomiting may be treated with tincture of iodine, silver nitrate, creosote, or carbolic acid. Severe diarrhoea, when it occurs late, may necessitate the employment of enemata of starch and opium and the use of milk diet, but unless very exhausting, it is better not to attempt to check diarrhoea too suddenly. Persistent headache and insomnia, which are more frequent in renal cirrhosis than in chronic nephritis, are similarly to be dealt with by vasodilators. Occasionally, however, the sleep- lessness requires a hypnotic; bromides, chloral, sulphonal, paraldehyde, and hyoscine are better than opium or morphine. Circulatory failure and low tension of the pulse may be improved by the use of alcohol, but digitalis, strophanthus, or caffeine citrate is often required. Spasmodic dyspnoea is usually benefited by cardiac tonics, though sometimes nitrites may also be of service. Appropriate measures must be adopted when the dyspnoea depends upon oedema of the hmg, or upon an accumulation of fluid within the pleural cavity. If during ursemic dyspnoea the urine is much below the normal standard, relief may follow the use of diuretin. Indications of pulmonary engorgement, bron- chitis, and pericarditis with renal cirrhosis are to be treated on general principles. In view of the comparative frequency of cere- bral haemorrhage during renal cirrhosis, re- current migraine or neuralgic headache is often regarded as an indication of danger. For the relief of this symptom nitrites or nitroglycerin may occasionally be beneficial, but antipyrin and antifebrin are often used in moderate doses. Should cerebral haemorrhage occur, the case must be dealt with on ordinary principles, but the prognosis is rendered much more serious by the coexistence of renal changes. Epistaxis may be checked by rest, by ice, by tannic or gallic acid, or by plugging the nares. Impairment of muscular strength may call for tonic remedies, and for modifications of occupations which involve much muscular strain. The loss of power is most marked towards the end of the disease: during the earlier stages it may be counteracted by moderate exercise and by gentle gymnastics. During ursemic convulsions very little can be done; nitrites and amyl nitrite have been recommended, but are not of much service, and do not shorten the subsequent coma. When convulsive attacks succeed each other with great rapidity, chloroform may be administered ; the hypodermic injection of morphine has also been recommended. It is perhaps better to use hydragogue purgatives; and croton oil, on account of the smallness of the dose, is usually selected. The dropsy, which usually complicates the closing scenes of renal cirrhosis, must often be regarded as of cardiac origin, and it necessitates cardiac stimulants and diuretics rather than hydragogue purgatives. NephrO-.—In compound words nephro- (Gr. v€<Ji)pos, the kidneys) means relating to or belonging to the kidneys; e.g. nephrocele (renal hernia), nephrorrhagia (renal haemorrhage), nephro-ureterectomy (excision of the kidney and ureter), etc. See Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions OF. Nephrolithiasis.—The formation of calculi in the kidney, or the tendency to the formation of such. Nephrolithotomy.—The removal by surgical operation (incision) of renal calculi. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Operative Procedures, Nephrolithotomy). Nephropexy.—The fixation, by surgical operation, of a floating or wandering kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable and Floating Kidney, Treatment) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Operative Procedures). Nephroptosis.—Prolapse of the kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Operative Procedures, Nei:)hropexy). NephropyeiitiS.—Inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney, or pyelonephritis. See Nephritis. Nephrorrhaphy.—The operation of fixation of the kidney by suturing it to the posterior abdominal wall in the lumbar region. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable and Floating Kidney, Treatment). Nephrostomy.—The formation of a fistula communicating with the pelvis of the kidney in cases of calculous anuria, etc. See Kidney, Surgical Affections {Stone, Treat- ment). Nephrotomy.—Incision of the kidney, as in nephritis, eclampsia, renal tuberculosis and renal fistula. See Eclampsia {Recent Views and Methods of Treatment); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Renal Fistula, Renal Tubercu- losis, Treatment); Kidney, Surgical Affections OF {Operative Procedures, Nephrotomy).