85 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—SYPHILIS cavity formation behind the stricture, with the expectoration of the usual very characteristic sputum. Dyspnoea varies in degree with the amount of interference with respiration, and the hectic temperature may yield some help where much bronchiectatic dilatation exists. The diagnosis is obviously extremely difficult, and the tubercle bacillus should be carefully excluded, although there is no reason why pulmonary tuberculosis and syphilis should not exist together. Certainly a syphilitic his- tory and the evidence of gummata elsewhere are of great help even although the lung suffers infinitely less frequently than any other organ in that disease. Prognosis.—Stenosis once developed is difficult to cure, although the development of fresh gummata may be arrested, and those not actually transformed into connective tissue may be made to disappear by vigorous antisyphilitic treatment. In one case in the writer's own experience fairly large gummata were found in both lungs, smaller ones with many cicatrices in the liver, and the patient succumbed after extensive cerebral thrombosis without having suffered much, if any, inconvenience from his pulmonary lesions. Treatment.—Prompt treatment with potas- sium iodide varied with mercury is indicated, and the greatest care should be taken of the patient's general health by administering tonics, such as iron, arsenic, and cod-liver oil. Baths suited for syphilitics, mainly for the mercurial inunction treatment practised at these resorts, are worthy of trial, and Woodhall Spa, Aii-la-Chapelle, and many others deserve to be mentioned. The usual medical treatment for bronchiec- tasis should be tried in cases where the stenosis has led to dilatation of bronchial tubes behind the stricture, but comparatively rarely can the stricture be dilated or otherwise relieved by surgical measures. Abscess of Lungs Suppuration is or may be a stage of several pulmonary diseases, fully described elsewhere; but abscess formation, in the usual acceptance of the term, is due to the following conditions :—■ (1) It may be the result of pneumonic con- solidation, lobar or lobular. Where hepatised lung does not resolve, yellow may succeed the grey stage of hepatisation ; and where a case of lobar pneumonia terminates fatally, whether the microbes present be Frankel's pneumococcus or other organisms, and perhaps most frequently where a mixed infection exists, evidences of part of the affected lung having broken down are not wanting as a rule. The condition may not actually be a well- defined abscess, but a glairy, purulent exudation may be obtained by pressure on the cut surface with the knife after making a section through the affected lung. There may be present, also, in a pneumonic lung small suppurative areas, probably due either to interference with the blood-supply to the part, pulmonary thrombosis, or else local infarction by pyogenic organisms. In many cases of lobular pneumonia the bronchial tubes are plugged with septic pus, and the lobules affected may have begun to break down. This is most likely to occur in aspiration pneumonias due either to inhalation of septic material from malignant or other ulceration of the respiratory tract including the nose, or to the inspiration of food; and, lastly, where the vitality of the lung has been interfered with, as by pressure on the vessels and nerves at its root in aneurysm, mediastinal tumour, etc. Cancer of the oesophagus frequently erodes the trachea, or sometimes one or both of the bronchi, just at their bifurcation; and while most probably the consequent suppurative changes in the lung will be of the nature of an inspiration pneumonia, considerable abscess for- mation may accompany the local infiltration of lung tissue by the tumour. (2) Pysemic abscesses may occur in the lung just as they do elsewhere. They are generally similar in position to ordinary pulmonary in- farction, namely subpleural, and may be wedge- shaped, and they may be very numerous. These septic infarctions rapidly form abscess cavities, frequently tend to become gangrenous, and generally cause very acute pleuritic exudation, while sometimes they perforate into the pleural sac. (3) Much more rarely an ordinary pulmonary infarction, due to clotting of blood in the right auricle or its appendix, may become secondarily infected by pyogenic organisms from the air- passages, and sometimes perforation into the pleural sac may follow. (4) A neighbouring abscess may open into the lung, as from the liver (tropical abscess, gumma, etc.), or a cancerous tumour of the stomach may open into the left lung through the dia- phragm. Special reference must also be made to suppuration of bronchial glands, mediastinal abscess, and empyemas, which may all involve the lung. (5) A foreign body from without may lodge in the lung, or a perforating wound through the chest wall may cause a local abscess of the lung. (6) In cases of amoebic dysentery, where tropical abscesses occur in the liver, they may also, although less frequently, be found in the lung, and two cases of the kind occurred in the writer's experience. The pus in one of these contained the amoeba and resembled in general appearance the typical abscesses in the liver. (7) In actinomycosis and aspergillosis, sup- puration and abscess formation is the rule.