LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 101 duct. The intercommunication of lymphatic vessels is always so free that there is usually little difficulty about this. Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels.—Those of importance are inflammation, acute and chronic, and dilatation, congenital and acquired. Acute Lymphangitis. — This, practically in- variably, is the result of a wound or other breach of surface which has become septic, or of some other source of septicity. Either the organisms themselves, or their toxins, are carried along the vessels, and give rise to inflam- mation in their train, the degree and exact nature of which differ with the organism present. As a rule, the process stops at the first gland above the lesion, which usually becomes enlarged and tender; but it may pass from gland to gland, and give rise ultimately to a general septicsemia. Dissecting-room and post-mortem wounds of the hand give an opportunity of examining such cases. From the wound red lines, often hard and raised, extend either to the cubital glands or sometimes to the axilla, when the main vessels alone are affected; the arm is painful, tender, and may be oedematous, and the patient is feverish. The walls of the vessels are inflamed, and there may be some spread of the inflammation into the tissues around. The lymph in the vessels is coagulated. Sometimes the smaller channels are also affected, and the inflammation in the skin then becomes so widespread that it is difficult to distinguish it from a cellulitis, while if the deeper vessels alone are affected, the limb may become brawny and oedematous without the development of the characteristic superficial lines. If the invading organisms are pus-producers, foci of suppuration may form in the course of the vessels ; or when the acute symptoms have passed off, the throm- bosis of the proximal vessels may give rise to a long-standing oedema of the limb. In treatment the first thing to be done is to stop the supply of organisms or toxins from the wound or other source of infection ; it is to be rendered aseptic by whatever means are necessary in the individual case. The affected limb is to be kept at rest, and pain relieved by evaporating lotions, lead and opium fomentations, bella- donna, etc. Abscesses must be opened and, if there is any threatening of septicfemia, the patient's strength supported by all possible means. Where the condition results in solid oedema, massage and elastic pressure should be tried; but the affection is apt to be tedious, for it usually takes some time for new lymph- channels to be formed in place of those which have become so completely occluded. Chronic Lymphangitis.—This may be a sequel of the acute condition, or may occur inde- pendently as a result of infection with the more slowly growing organisms. A good example of this is the cord-like thickening of the lymphatics of the penis which sometimes follows the primary sore of syphilis, and which, as a rule, subsides in due course. Tubercle may also occasionally give rise to a similar condition, which shows itself rather by the formation of tubercular foci in the course of the lymphatic. Dilatation of Lymphatics.—This term may be used for the whole group of cases which are variously known as lymphangiectasis, lymph- angioma, lymphatic nfevus, and lymphatic varix, according to the individual peculiarities of the case. In a tissue which consists of such simple elements as the lymphatics there is no room for any great difference in appearance, except as far as diff'erent parts of the body are affected, and the congenital forms of the condition are practically identical with the acquired. The enlargement of the tongue, known as macroglossia, for instance, may be congenital, or may be the result of blocking of the lymphatics later in life as a result of trauma or inflammation. The similar condition of the lips, macrocheilia, and of the cheek, macromelia, is practically always congenital. Lymphangiectasis or lymphangioma is the name given to a dilatation of lymph-vessels which most usually occurs in the skin ; the former name is applied if we regard the condition as a dilatation of pre-existing vessels, the latter if they are supposed to be a new formation. Any part of the skin may be affected, but most usually the inner side of the thigh, and with relative frequency the prepuce, abdomen, the elbows, and ankles. The skin at first is ir- regularly elevated, with an appearance, minus the colour, like the rind of an orange; later, when vesicles have formed, it is compared by Walker to a white raspberry cut open and laid on the skin. There may be one or several patches, and the larger lymphatic trunks may also be varicose, showing either cylindrical, beaded and semi-transparent enlargements, or ampullae along their course. There may be some oedema. The vesicles are deep and have thick walls, and when pricked or ruptured discharge lymph and go on discharging it. Electrolysis of the vesicles, repeated if necessary, will sometimes cure the condition, or the patch may require excision. This should go wide of the disease, as otherwise the tendency to recur is great. Where larger vessels are varicose pressure may be applied, or an attempt made to ligature the vessel above and below the affected part. Elephantiasis, lymph-scrotum, inguinal lymph- varix, are similar conditions due to the blocking of the thoracic duct by filariae or by the inflam- matory products which are the result of their former presence there (see " Filariasis," vol. iii. p. 273). Diseases of Lymphatic Glands Those of most importance are—acute and chronic inflammation (lymphadenitis), enlarge-