393 MICRO-OKGANISMS one or the other condition. In the case of true anaerobic organisms the vegetative cells are actu- ally killed through exposure to the air. There is but a single anaerobic micrococcus known; all other known anaerobic bacteria are bacilli. Investigations just published by Klett (1900) show that we must define in future what is meant by anaerobiosis. It has always been claimed hitherto that B. anthracis requires oxygen for spore-formation, and that this prob- ably explained the absence of spore-formation in the animal body. The contrary is the case with the bacilli of tetanus and malignant oedema, which forms spores in the body. Klett has found that B. anthracis forms spores in a nitrogen, but not in a hydrogen atmosphere, which indicates that the latter gas is not "neutral" as has been hitherto claimed. Nutrition and Assimilation.—The nutrition of bacteria occurs through the diffusion of soluble substances from the surrounding medium into the bacterial cell. With the exception of a few green forms bacteria do not assimilate carbon from carbon dioxide. In fact, the majority give off CO2 like animals. They obtain their carbon from organic compounds, as also from simple compounds like glycerin, tartaric and lactic acids. Their nitrogen is derived from protein compoimds, but also from simpler com- pounds like asparagin and the amido acids, though a number can obtain their nitrogen from inorganic compounds like ammonium, chlorides, and nitrates. In the nodules of the Leguminosse the bacteroids take up the nitro- gen of the atmosphere, thus aiding the plant in which they live, and enriching the soil. Hydrogen is derived from organic compounds, ammonia, or water. Aerobic forms derive their oxygen from the air, anaerobic forms from proteins and carbohydrates. Some species, like Engelmann's B. chlorinum, give off oxygen. Sulphur and phosphorus are derived from organic or inorganic (sulphates and phosphates) matter. The so-called sulphur bacteria oxidise HgS to S, the oxidation of sulphur giving the cell the energy due to oxidation of albumin in higher organisms. Chlorine is derived from chlorides, whilst sodium, potassium, calcium, and iron, the latter usually present in traces, are readily procurable both in organic and inorganic matter. Most bacteria prefer a neutral or slightly alkaline medium; acidity equal to 20 to 30 c.cm. normal acid solution per litre (as tested by litmus) inhibits their growth. Bacteria form a contrast to moulds in this respect. Bacteria cause changes in the surrounding medium through the agency of ferments, acids, etc., which they give off. By crushing yeast-cells and filtering their contents through a stone filter Buchner showed that the cells contained a ferment capable of con- verting cane-sugar into COg and alcohol. Macfadyen, Morris, and Roland (1900) in repeating Buchner's experiments, find that the substance of the crushed yeast of itself gives off large quantities of COg and alcohol, which indicates that the fermentation changes take place within the cell protoplasm. Similarly it has been found that bacteria elaborate certain substances within their protoplasm which are capable of producing chemical changes in a medium. Whilst some organisms do not allow their products to diffuse to any considerable distance into the medium, others do so. We can observe this microscopically in pigment- producing bacteria, some of which give off a highly soluble pigment which diffuses quickly throughout the medium (B. pyocyaneus), others a pigment which is deposited in the vicinity of the cells (B. prodigiosus). So it is with peptonising ferments. Some liquefy at a con- siderable distance (liquefying bacteria); others do not apparently liquefy, but none the less their bodies have been found to contain the ferment (B. typhi, B. tuberculosis). Similarly some forms give off highly diffusible toxins, others not. We have already referred to anaerobic organisms. In nature these organ- isms find conditions for their multiplication through the presence of aerobic forms which rob the medium of its free oxygen, and possibly exert an influence through their products. Aerobic forms, when motile and growing in media in which the oxygen is lessened, seek the surface or the bubbles of air it may contain. A very beautiful experiment of Engelmann's made upon a thread of Spirogyra beneath the microspectroscope has showti that such bacteria will accumulate along those portions of the Spirogyra which lie across the ra^ys of light in which oxygen is most liberated. This motion in the direction of oxygen or desired food- substance is known as positive chemotaxis. Substances which do not attract or repel micro- organisms are spoken of as negatively chemo- tactic. The motion of bacteria varies in rate and kind according to the particular species. Motile anaerobic forms cease to move when exposed to the air, the reverse being the case with aerobic organisms. The motion is influenced by temperature, still more so the rate of multiplication, and consequently the physiological activity. Between the lowest and highest temperature at which an organism will grow (minimum and maximum tempera- tures) there is a temperature at which it grows best (optimum temperature). The optimum temperature for the growth of most pathogenic forms corresponds to the temperature of the animal in which it is capable of inducing disease. Whereas sporulation occurs best at about the optimum, sprouting occurs usually best at a somewhat higher temperature. The duration of life in bacteria varies ac- cording to the species. The spores of anthrax have been found to live for twenty-two years