212 MANGANESIUM nesii Hypophosphis, a nerve stimulant. Dose— 1- 10 grs. 6. Manganesii Phosphas, insoluble. Dose—1-5 grs. 7. Manganesii Sulphas. Dose— 2- 10 grs. Potassium permanganate is largely used as a disinfectant and deodorant. It is also a mild antiseptic, and is employed in solutions of various strengths in gonorrhoea, in leucorrhoea, and as a mouth wash or gargle. A saturated solution has been recommended for application to lupus, and to foul ulcers. Crystals of permanganate are rubbed into snake-bites after incision with a knife, or a 15 per cent solution may be freely injected. The liquor has a beneficial effect in bromidrosis of the feet. As an internal remedy permanganate has largely fallen into disuse. It is said to be efficacious in amenorrhosa of func- tional origin given for three or four days before the time when the period is due. It has also been employed in the treatment of ansemia. It oxidises morphia and is used as an antidote in morphia poisoning, usually by adding it to the fluid with which the stomach is being washed out. Mangle.—A skin disease in animals re- sembling scabies in the human subject (Old Fr. mangeiie, itch); scabies ferina. M£in-Hole. — An inspection chamber (built of brick and Portland cement) by means of which drains and sewers can be examined at various points (especially over bends or junc- tions) in their course ; it should be ventilated. See Sewage and Drainage (Seivers, Man-Holes). Mania..—That form of insanity in which there is great excitement, both physical and mental, with hallucinations and delusions and much violence ; raving madness. See Insanity, Etiology ; Insanity, Pathology ; Insanity, ITS Nature and Symptoms (Types of Episodic Insanity., Mania); see also Alcoholic Insanity {Clinical Types); Alcoholism {Mania a Potu); Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms, Mental Disturb- ance) ; Chorea {Choreic Insanity, Mania); Climacteric Insanity {Clinical Forms, Mania); Delirious Mania ; Delirium Tremens ; Ec- lampsia {Sy7nptoms) ; Epilepsy {Symptoms); Epileptic Insanity ; General Paralysis {Symp- toms) ; Hypnotism ; Hysteria {Disorders of Mental State) ; Labour, Operations {Induction of Labour, Indications) ; Latah ; Malaria {Pernicious Attacks, Cerebral Forms); Ovaries, Diseases of the {Complications following Ovari- otomy, Acute Mania); Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Insanities, Mania) ; Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility, Mania); Sleeping Sick- ness {Symptoms). Mania, Alcoholic. See Alcoholic Insanity. Mania a Potu. — Delirium tremens {q.v.); mania potatorum. Mania, Bell's.—Acute delirious mania. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Types, Mania, Varieties). Mania Crap U lOSa. — Dipsomania. See Alcoholic Insanity. Mania EbriOSa. — Dipsomania. See Alcoholic Insanity. Mania, Feigfned. See Malingering {Insa7iity). Mania Lactea.—Lactational insanity. See Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Insanity, Varieties). Mania Puerperarum. See Puer- perium, Pathology of {Puerperal Insanity). Mania sine DeliriO.—Moral or emo- tional insanity ; folie raisonnante (Fr.). ManiCOCOmlum.—An asylum for the insane (Gr. /xavt/cds, inclined to madness, and KOfjLsw, I attend to). Manicure.—The care of the hands, especially in relation to the beautifying of them ; also, the individual who practises the care of the hands and nails as a means of livelihood. See also Chiropodist ; Pedicure. Manifest Hypermetropia. See Refraction {Hypermetropia). Manikin. — A model of the whole or of part of the body, used for teaching pui'poses (anatomical, obstetrical, etc.); a phantom. Manioc.—Tapioca or cassava, the product of the Manihot utilissima {bitter cassava), or of the Manihot aipi or palmata {sweet cassava). See Diet (Vegetable, Roots and Tubers); Invalid Feeding {Convalescence, Tapioca Pudding). Manipulation.—Treatment or dia- gnosis of morbid conditions (surgical, medical, and obstetrical) by handling, e.g. in massage; a method of treating aneurysms, now rarely used. See Aneurysm {Treatment, Manipulation). ManitOU. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {American, Colorado). Mann's Method. — Intraperitoneal shortening of the round ligaments of the uterus, employed in obstinate cases of retrodisplace- ments and prolapse; each ligament is folded twice upon itself and the folded segments are fixed together by silk ligatures. Manna.—The concrete sugary exudation of a species of ash-tree {Fraxinus ormus) ; it has a taste and odour resembling honey; it is a mild laxative useful in children—dose, 1 dr. to 1 oz. It contains mannite (CgH8(0H)g) or mannitol, a hexahydric alcohol, which forms an