MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 487 fibromata, lipomata, angiomata, myxomata, and enchondromata. Carcinoma of the muscle occurs only as secondary to a primary process in some other situation. A few cases of rhabdomyomata have been described. Hydatids have also been found in muscle. 8. Myotonia Congenita — Thomsen's Dis- 'EASE.—Definition.—A disease characterised by a prolonged contraction of muscles on the attempt to perform any voluntary movement. Etiology. —■ Heredity plays the most im- portant part as an etiological factor. The disease exists in certain families, and passes from parent to child, affecting both brothers and sisters in the same family. Other members of the family have suffered from mental weakness. The age at which the onset of the disease occurs is doubtful, but it is probably congenital, although patients do not as a rule complain till some time during the second decade of life. Males are rather more frequently affected than females. In a few cases the disease appears to have been acquired, in one such case follow- ing on severe exertion, and in another after a sudden alarm. Symptoms.—The most striking symptom is that on attempting to perform any voluntary movement, the muscles associated with that movement and their antagonistics go into a state of prolonged contraction. Gradually the antagonistic muscles give way and the move- ment is performed; both the contraction and the relaxation of the muscles are very much prolonged. By repeating the movement fre- quently the action becomes more and more readily performed, so that after a short time the patient performs all the movements in a normal manner. The difficulty which the patient experiences on starting to walk is very marked, and this is especially noticeable in such actions as drilling, when the movement is expected to be briskly and sharply executed. When starting to walk, the first leg put forward becomes stiff, and remains so for a few seconds, the other leg becoming stiff when it is moved. The second time the first leg is moved the duration of the stiffness is less, so that after a few steps tbe patient walks in a normal manner, and will walk miles without trouble. Should he however stop, when starting again the same difficulty occurs. As with walking, so with other movements of the upper extremity or face. The opening and shutting of the mouth, the putting out of the tongue, the turning of the head, the grasping of an object with the hand, all show the same slow contrac- tion and relaxation of the muscles which is seen during walking. This has been graphically recorded by a myographic tracing, which shows the slow contraction and relaxation of the earlier muscular efforts. Mental excitement and alcohol seem to have no influence on the condition. Cold and fatigue, however, are said to make the symptoms more pronounced. There is no difficulty in swallowing, in micturition, or defsecation. Any of the voluntary muscles may be affected, but those least commonly so are the muscles of the eye and of the larynx. The muscular development is usually good; indeed, it often seems to be in excess of the voluntary powers. Sensation is natural. Elect7-ical Reactions.—The " mytonic reaction " of Erb is present in the muscles, and its characters are as follows:—(1) The nerves show no increase of irritability to mechanical stimu- lus. (2) To the faradic current the nerves are quantitatively normal; but if the current be strong, the contraction produced on closing the circuit lasts much longer than it does in health. (3) To the galvanic current the nerves are quantitatively normal, but here also, if the current is strong, the contraction lasts longer than in health. (4) Mechanical stimuli applied to the muscles, as by hitting them, induces contractions more easily than in health. These contractions often last from five to thirty seconds. (5) The faradic current applied directly to the muscle, if strong, sets up contractions which last from five to thirty seconds. (6) When the galvanic current is applied directly to the muscle, the K.C.C. and the A.C.C. are equally easy to obtain, while in health, as is well known, the K.C.C. is more readily elicited than the A.C.C. With weak currents the contraction lasts longer than in health ; with strong currents it lasts some seconds, and relaxes very slowly (Hale White). Pathological Anatomy.—This is based chiefly on the examination of excised portions of muscle, though an examination has been made on one case, post-mortem, and nothing abnormal could be found in the brain, spinal cord, or nerves. The marked alteration which is present in the muscle fibres is their increased breadth. The normal fibre measures about -04 to '06 mm. in diameter, while in Thomsen's disease they measure nearly double their normal width. The transverse striation is feebly marked, and the nuclei of the sarcolemma are increased in number. Vacuolation is present in some of the fibres. The disease is regarded by all observers as a congenital one, and as purely muscular. Hale White calls attention to the fact that the peculiar contractions are exactly the same as those which may be produced in animals which have been poisoned by veratria. Ringer and Sainsbury find that if phosphate of soda is given to an animal, and the sciatic nerve then stimu- lated, contractions like those of Thomsen's disease are produced, and this even if curare had been previously injected. From this it would appear that Thomsen-like contractions are due to the action of phosphate of soda on the muscle fibres themselves. Treatment.—No treatment has been found to influence the course of the disease. It is