MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 197 ance of the disease, or 14"7 months after glandu- lar affection. The same author, by combining the statistics obtained by various observers from 423 necropsies on persons who died of breast cancer, finds the order of frequency of the locality of the metastatic growths to be as follows:—Liver, 48"6 per cent; pleura, 42 per cent; lung, 41 per cent; bone, 20"5 per cent; brain, 9-4 per cent; ovary, 8 per cent; and opposite breast, 7'8 per cent. The order of frequency of the bones affected is—cranium, vertebrae, innominate, femur, humerus, ribs. Neither post-mortem nor clinical observation has confirmed Mr. Herbert Snow's statement as to the early stage and great frequency with which carcinomatous infection of the upper end of the humerus takes place. SjJontaneous frac- ture of a long bone in an elderly female may be the first symptom which leads to the detection of an unsuspected cancer in the breast. In the spine, the dorso-lumbar region is that which is usually involved; the chief symptoms are pain in the back, and girdle-pain, followed by ky- phosis and paraplegia. Not infrequently the osseous system is the seat of multiple metastases. Glandular Infection. — Sooner or later the glands in the axilla become involved. Cancer cells, derived from the primary tumour, are at any time liable to pass from the alveolar spaces into the lymph channels, along which they are conveyed by the lymph stream to the nearest lymphatic glands. The detached cell or cluster of cells is essentially a malignant embolus, which, after being grafted within a lymphatic gland, proliferates in the lymph sinuses, destroys the leucocytes, and converts the connective-tissue framework into the stroma of what is now a secondary growth having the same structure as the primary tumour. The local and often microscopic canceroxis disseminations, which by careful examination are frequently to be found in the breast substance and adjacent tissues, are almost invariably developed from similar emboli which have been arrested at some spot in the many lymphatic highways and channels leading from the primary tumour. It is impossible to say how long such emboli may exist before giving rise to visible nodules, and how many degenerate or become destroyed. Gross gives 17'7 months as the average duration of the interval between the detection of the primary tumour and perceptible infection of the axillary glands. It is obvious, however, that evidence of glandular infection may exist micro- scopically long before it manifests itself clini- cally ; indeed, we have no reason whatever to suppose that it is not already present at the time the primary tumour is first detected. It is seldom that one is able to detect a continuous invasion of a lymphatic vessel, even with the microscope. The cord-like strands which often may be felt passing from the breast towards the axilla are not, as usually stated. cancerous lymphatics, but simply the ducts or strands of atrophied parenchyma of what Spence used to call "the axillary tail" of the mamma. The pectoral group of glands is usually the first to be infected, and the remaining groups may be infected either independently or second- arily to these. The subclavicular glands are sometimes alone affected, more particularly when the tumour is situated towards the upper margin of the breast. The number of diseased glands to be found in the axilla varies very greatly ; usually there are not more than three or four, but as many as twenty, thirty, or even forty have been counted. They are generally scattered, but occasionally they are conglo- merated into a mass considerably larger than the primary tumour. In the latter case if the primary tumour be small, situated in the axillary tail and fused with the glands, the condition is liable to be mistaken for tubercle. In size the diseased glands may vary from a pin's head to a pigeon's egg, or even larger. In the glands, as in the primary tumour, the most important clinical sign of malignancy is their density. It should be noted that enlargement along with a certain amount of induration may be associated with the presence of inflammatory or simple neoplastic conditions of the breast. After the glands have been diseased for some time the afferent and efferent lymphatic vessels are not infrequently found to be diseased, but this can only be detected by careful microscopic examination. It follows, therefore, that in clearing out the axilla every endeavour should be made to remove all the fat and lymphatics as well as the glands. When the glandular enlargement becomes extensive, swelling of the arm sets in as the result of pressure on the axillary vein combined with lymphatic obstruction. At the same time there is generally severe pain from pressure upon the nerves. In advanced cases the limb becomes greatly swollen, the pain excruciating, and eventually gangrene of the fingers may set in. It is in such desperate conditions that amputation at the shoulder joint is sometimes welcomed by the patient. In the later stages of the disease there is often a well-marked cancerous cachexia. The patient, who is rapidly losing flesh, has a worn and anxious expression; the skin is of a peculiar pale yellow, and somewhat earthy, hue, suggestive of a combination of simple anaemia, waxy disease, and slight jaundice. There is increasing weakness and anorexia. These general symptoms were formerly re- garded as proof that the tumour was a local manifestation of a constitutional disease. It is well known that when the tumour is first noticed the patient generally looks and feels in perfect health, and some authorities assert that the cachectic symptoms are the result of ulceration followed by septic intoxication.