525. NECK, REGION OF lower the subclavian. The extent of these spaces varies much with the muscularity of the individual. The Deep Fascive.—The arrangement of the deep fascia has an important bearing on the direction taken by fluid connections in the neck. It is also not without an influence on the direc- tion of growth of solid tumours. Although other smaller septa are given off, chiefly in the posterior part of the neck, three main layers of deep fascia exist: (1) An outer layer which forms a continuous collar round the entire neck. This is attached posteriorly to the ligamentum nuchfe, and, as it sweeps round the neck, it slips twice, to enclose first the trapezius, and then the sterno-mastoid. Over these muscles it is less strongly marked than elsewhere. Above it is attached to the lower jaw, the mastoid process, and the occiput; below, to the sternum, clavicle, and the spine of the scapula. As it passes over the hyoid it is attached to that bone also. (2) A middle layer (the pretracheal fascia), the least well marked of the three. This springs from the outer layer beneath the sterno-mastoid, helps to form the carotid sheath, and then passes forward in front of the thyroid gland and trachea, to both of which it gives a fibrous investment. It also furnishes sheaths for the omohyoid, sternohyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles. It is attached above to the hyoid bone and below to the sternum, but is prolonged down to blend with the pericardium. On each side it is attached to the clavicle, and it finally becomes continuous with the sheath of the axillary vessels. (3) An inner layer (the pre- vertebral fascia), which lies immediately in front of the prevertebral muscles. It, like the middle layer, is derived from the outer layer, and takes part in the formation of the carotid sheath. Above it is fixed to the base of the skull, while below it is carried down over the longus colli muscles into the thorax. It is attached at the sides to the transverse process of the vertebra?. From the above description it will be seen that a knife introduced from before backwards would traverse three separate planes of deep fascia before reaching the spinal column. Further, by the above arrangement three fascial compart- ments are found. In the most anterior of these the descent of fluid is obviously limited by the sternum. In the middle and posterior spaces, however, pus may easily extend into the thorax. Pus, moreover, occasionally follows the extension of the middle layer into the axilla. Superficial to the deep fascia the platysma and the ex- ternal jugular vein are the only structures of importance. The Vessels and Nerves.—In the removal of tumours these are often in danger, and in ex- tensive operations some may have to be divided. Here only brief notes on the position of the more important can be given. The direction of the common and external carotids is the same, namely, that of a line drawn from the sterno- clavicular joint to a point half-way between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The external carotid portion of this line begins at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, the point at which the common carotid ends. The internal carotid may be indicated by a similar line, but it lies at a deeper level, and is also a little external to the external carotid. The internal jugular vein and the vagus nerve are included in the same sheath as the common carotid. The internal jugular lies to the outer side; it is large, is very thin, and in most cases overlaps the artery to a certain extent, particularly on the left side. If the tissues happen to be on the stretch it may look more like a band of fascia than a vein. Should the breathing become at all forcible during an operation, it may be seen to swell out during expiration and collapse during inspiration. Owing to the adhesion of the fascia to the deep veins of the neck, the danger of air entering them during the removal of tumours, etc. must not be forgotten. To avoid this in operations all doubtful bands should be clamped before division, and when divided should be cut com- pletely across. The vagus nerve lies behind and between the vessels. The formation of the carotid sheath has been referred to above ; in front of it lies the small descendens noni nerve, and behind it the cord of the sympathetic. The lateral mobility of the sheath and the structures it contains is considerable, and the surgeon must therefore not be surprised to occasionally find its position in the neck considerably altered by tumour growth. The line of the subclavian artery in the neck may be roughly indicated by a curved line extending from the sterno-clavi- cular joint to a point nearly opposite the centre of the clavicle. The summit of this curve is usually about half an inch above the clavicle, but it varies considerably. The vein is at a lower level than the artery, and is also anterior to it. In operations on the third part of the artery it is in much less danger than the lowest of the nerve cords which pass down above the artery on their way to the axilla to form the brachial plexus. The external jugular vein, after it has pierced the deep fascia, crosses this part of the artery with several of its tributaries on its way to the subclavian vein. The scalenus anticus lies over the second part. From the first part of the artery come off the thoracic axis, the vertebral and internal mammary arteries; it is crossed by the internal jugular vein and the vagus and phrenic nerves. Behind and below, the pleura and the recurrent laryngeal nerve (on the right side) are in close connection. It is therefore evident that operations in this neighbourhood can only be carried out with great care. The greater cornu of the hyoid bone is a useful guide to the position of the