LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 96 It is practically impossible to say whether or how proteids are absorbed by the blood- vessels. The Functions of Lymph.—These are mani- fold, but may be grouped under the three heads of nutrition of tissues, metabolism, and defence. In nutrition the majority of the sub- stances required are taken up by the tissues from the blood by a process of diffusion, but this must take place by the intermediation of the lymph, as the fluid which bathes the tissues. The only difficulty is with regard to the supply of proteid to the tissues. The large molecules of these render their diffusion practically im- possible, and the only possible source is the proteid which has filtered through the vessel walls in the lymph. The two other views which have been put forward are, first, that the endothelial cells of the vessels can take up proteid from the blood and pass it on to the tissues as required; and, second, Hofmeister's view, that the leucocytes act as carriers of proteid to the tissues. The former view has been shown to be unlikely in the foregoing sections ; Hofmeister's view has been abandoned because his premises are now understood more fully and interpreted differently. In any case the tissue cells make use of the proteid in the lymph, the amount of which is propor- tioned to their general needs by the normal or acquired permeability of the capillary wall. What is not utilised passes into the lymphatic circulation. As regards metabolism., the more active an organ the greater the lymph-flow from it. The two typical experiments which show this are the increase of lymph-flow from an active muscle, and the increased flow and increase in concen- tration of the lymph from the liver after the intravenous injection of bile, which also increases the activity of the liver. Of coui'se, part of the increased lymph-flow in such cases is due to the increased blood-supply to active organs ; but it has often been suggested that the lymph-stream is iitilised to carry off" those metabolic products which would be too injurious if they were passed directly into the blood. These products are supposed to be conveyed to the lymph-glands, where they are rendered innocuous, and they are regarded as the agents which normally incite the leucocytes in the glands to proliferation. The leucocytes destroy, remove, or ingest the injurious substances, and the lymph is thus rendered fit to mingle with the blood-plasma. The increased flow of a more concentrated lymph is one of the first signs of defence against any irritant, and is probably intended for several different purposes—for the better nutrition of tissues whose vitality is lowered, in order that the bactericidal power of its constituents may be exercised ; to furnish nourishment to leuco- cytes ; and, in case the energies of the cells on tiae spot are overtaxed, to convey the irritant or its products to the nearest lymphatic gland, there to be dealt with. Lymphatic Vessels.—These are found in addition to a blood-vascular system in all verte- brate animals, while in those of the invertebrates, which possess a vascular system of any kind, the circulating fluid in most cases more nearly resembles lymph than blood. The addition of red corpuscles and of a blood-forming bone- marrow is a comparatively late event in the history of evolution. The lymphatic system is not a closed system, as the radicles of the lymph capillaries open almost everywhere into connective tissue spaces. In some of the intestinal villi the radicles terminate with closed ends, but the other mode is by far the more frequent. The lymph capil- laries are much like blood capillaries in structure, as they are simply tubes of endothelial cells, but are much more irregular in size and shape. The larger lymphatics iuto which they open have their walls strengthened by connective tissue to a slight extent, and the very largest contain some non-striped muscular fibres and resemble veins in structure. All lymphatics above the very smallest are provided with valves, so that the current through them, in normal conditions, must always be towards the thoracic duct. The serous cavities are structurally simply large connective tissue spaces, and communicate freely by means of stomata—openings round which modified endothelial cells are arranged— with the lymphatics which run in their walls. The course of the vessels will be found sufficiently described in the subjoined table of the glands. They always run near blood-vessels, but there are the widest individual differences in their course. Lymphatic Glands.—Structure.—The essen- tial facts in the structure of these bodies can be briefly stated as follows: — The afferent lymph-vessels open through a fairly strong capsule into a sinus which surrounds the gland everywhere except at the hilus. Connective tissue processes (trabeculae) from the capsule penetrate the gland at many points, and the external sinus is prolonged around these so as to form a series of paths into the substance of the gland. The trabeculae become thinner, and about the middle of the gland become continuous with the ordinary reticular tissue. The lymph- paths, thus set free, pass oft" at various angles, anastomose freely with one another, and finally unite in a number of efferent vessels which pass out at the hilus. Every lymph-path inside the capsule is beset with obstacles in the form of delicate strands of connective tissue which stretch across them in every possible direction, and any given particle can only pass from the afferent to the efferent vessels by following a very tortuous course. Moreover, the interstices of the reticular tissue of the rest of the gland