MEASLES 226 broncho-pneumonia, its advent is suggested by an arrest of the normal defervescence of tempera- ture which follows the full development of the rash. In some cases it supervenes a few days after the temperature has fallen to normal. Its presence is indicated by the rapid development of cyanosis and marked acceleration of the respiration. On auscultation fine mucous rales may be heard over the lungs, unattended with either tubular breathing or obvious dulness. Bro7icho^jmeuinonia in some degree is rarely altogether absent in cases in which bronchitis has extended to the smaller tubes. It may arise at any stage of the measles attack, but most often during the height of the disease. It is most common in strumous, rachitic, or otherwise weakly children, particularly in very young ones. It is apt to be progressive, and on this account is responsible for the large majority of measles deaths. The symptoms in no way differ from those of broncho-pneumonia unconnected with measles. The attack is characterised by pro- tracted pyrexia of a remittent order, attended with marked emaciation and consequent ex- haustion. In many cases not directly fatal it engenders a predisposition to subsequent tuber- culosis. Rhi7iitis.—The nasal catarrh may be unduly severe, and in many cases, especially in strumous children, the rhinorrhoea becomes chronic. Otitis Media.—The middle ear is frequently involved by extension of the catarrh along the Eustachian tube, in which case symptoms of a threatening character are apt to supervene. The tempei-ature suddenly rises, perhaps ac- companied with a rigor, and the child becomes restless and drowsy. Deafness, tinnitus, and tenderness over the cartilaginous portion of the auditory canal are usually present, and probably otalgia. This, however, need not be very ob- vious ; but its presence may be inferred if the child becomes extremely restless and occasion- ally cries out as if in pain, or it may become delirious. In the large majority of cases the tympanic membrane gives way, and relief is obtained spontaneously. The temperature falls, and the pain and restlessness subside on the appearance of the discharge. Should, however, no escape be provided for the inflammatory products shut up in the tympanum, suppuration of the mastoid cells, convulsions, meningitis, or sinus thrombosis are likely to arise and prove fatal. Chronic otorrhoea is frequently dependent upon disease of the temporal bone following otitis media, ascribable in most cases either to scarlet fever or measles. Occasionally aphtlim or ulcerative stomatitis arises as a result of the catarrhal affection of the mouth, in which case small white patches or shallow ulcers with a bright red or greyish floor may be seen on the mucous membrane of the cheeks, lips, gums, or side of the tongue. The latter organ is coated with a brownish-white fur, and the breath is very offensive. In some cachectic children, or in those exhausted by broncho-pneumonia or co-existent septic scarlet fever, necrosis of some portion of the mouth arises and rapidly spreads. In this way extensive sloughs may involve the tissues of the cheeks, gums, or sides of the tongue, and with disastrous results. The condition is usually known as noma or cancrum oris, and it may affect the external genitalia in female children. Diarrhoea sometimes appears at the commence- ment of the attack, but perhaps more often sets in during the eruptive stage. It is liable to persist for a considerable time, and is due to catarrhal enteritis. If chronic, the patient is liable to become exhausted by the continual passage of offensive watery stools, and after death the colon has been found both thickened and ulcerated. Conjunctivitis of mild degree is usually present in measles, but it may take on a purulent character, attended with mvich chemosis. Under these circumstances keratitis and corneal ulcer are liable to arise, sometimes leading to hypopion, and occasionally, though rarely, destructive in- flammation of the globe. Certain affections of the nervous system have occasionally been observed to follow an attack of measles, of which chorea, muscular atrophy, myelitis, and hemiplegia may be cited as ex- amples. Pathology.—Measles is unquestionably due to a specific living contagium, but its identity has not yet been conclusively established. Canon and Pielicke in 1892, and more recently, Czajkowski, claim to have discovered a small bacillus in the blood, and to have successfully cultivated it; but the two descriptions evidently do not apply to the same organism, nor in either case have the observations received indepen- dent confirmation. The bacillus described by Cornil and Babes is believed to be identical with Pfeiffer's influenza bacillus. Secondary infection by pyogenetic organisms and the diplococcus associated with pneumonia are common in measles, their multiplication being favoured by the catarrhal condition of the mucous membranes. The extent to which these extraneous organisms are responsible for the supervention of most of the inflammatory com- plications is uncertain. It has been asserted by Cornil and Babes with apparent reason that in respect to one form of pneumonia presenting distinctive histological features, the affection is a specific manifestation of the measles infection. With this possible exception, the post-mortem appearances are not distinctive of measles, but rather of its complications. In toxic attacks of measles, as of other in- fective fevers, the blood is wanting in coagula- bility, and stains the vessel walls; while the