MANNA 213 explosive substance {nitj'omannite, CgHg(N03)g) with nitric acid, and which is nearly related to the ordinary sugars ; the oxidation products of mannite are a sugar (niannose), mannonic acid, and saccharic acid; dulcite is an isomer of mannite. Msinoli—A syrupy medicine recommended in cases of pertussis; it is said to contain cane sugar, carbolic acid, oil of anise, alcohol, and water. Manometer Test.—A test for deter- mining the efficiency of the ventilation of a building, by measuring the rate at which the incoming air is travelling ; the air impinges upon a water surface, and drives the water up a bent tube, the height to which it rises indi- cating the velocity of the air. A merciirial manometer is used for measuring blood pres- sure and for other purposes in physiological experiments. Manserg^h Trap.—A variety of trap for use in drains and sewers. See Sewage and Drainage (Traps). Mantle Layer. — In the developing spinal cord several layers can be recognised—a neuroglia layer externally, an ependymal layer internally, and, between them, a layer of neuro- blasts, called the mantle layer; in the brain, the name is sometimes given to the cerebral convolutions, corpus collosum, fornix, and hip- pocampus major. Manubrium.—The upper portion (or "handle") of the sternum; also part of the malleus in the tympanic cavity. Man US.—The hand, as in such terms as manus vara (club hand), etc. See Deformities {Hand and Fingers). ManustupratiO. *S'ee Masturbation. Manyplies.—The omasum or third com- partment of the stomach of a ruminant; means, literally, manyfolds. Mara. <S'ee Balneology (.^/Wca, Abyssinia). Maragliano's Necrosis.—A change in the structure of a red blood corpuscle con- sisting in decoloration (the cell becoming a "phantom " or "shadow " corpuscle) and altera- tion in shape; it is seen in anaemia, septictemia, and in fevers such as typhus and smallpox ; it is an endoglobular degeneration. Marantic. See Marasmus. Marasmus.—An atrophy or wasting away of the body (Gr. [xapaLvw, I burn low, or waste away), due to imperfect nourishment, generally without the presence of any recognis- able organic lesion; among the varieties enu- merated are infantile marasmus, senile maras- mus, syphilitic marasmus, and marasmus of the climacteric. See Atrophy, Infantile {Syno- nyms) ; Alcohol {Indications in Diseases of Infancy) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and SequelcB). Marc. — The material of a drug which remains after it has been exhausted by macera- tion or percolation. Marchi's Method. — A method of demonstrating degeneration in nerve fibres, de- pending upon the black staining of the white sheath when placed in a solution of chrome salt with osmic acid. See Physiology, Nervous System {Co7'd, Conducting Paths, Degeneration, Wallerian). MarCOr. — Emaciation; macies. See Atrophy. Mar^Chal Test.—A test for bile pig- ment in urine; dilute tincture of iodine is allowed to run on to the surface of urine in a test-tube, when, if bilirubin be present, a green ring appears where the liquids meet, due to the oxidation of the bilirubin into biliverdin. See Urine, Pathological Changes {Bile Pigment). Marem ma.—The low-lying marshy lands near the sea, especially on the west coast of Northern Italy; the malarious exhalations from such lands. Mare's Milk. See Invalid Feeding {Koumiss) ; Milk {Physiological). Maretin.—An antipyretic powder, car- baminic-acid-meta-tolylhydrazide, prescribed in doses of 4 to 8 grains in rheumatism, influenza, and tuberculosis ; its value and safety have been questioned. Marey'S Law.—The statement that a pulse of high tension is a slow pulse. IViargarine.—This name is given to all substances, whether compounds {e.g. a mixture of palmitine and stearine) or otherwise, prepared in imitation of butter, and whether mixed with butter or not; there are strict regulations for its sale. The name also belongs to trimargarate of glyceryl, found in butter. Marg'inai.—Relating to the margin or border, e.g. a marginal convolution of the brain, marginal insertion of the placenta (where the lower margin of the placenta is within the lower segment of the uterus), etc. Marg^inate.—Having a margin; used of the placenta in which the foetal membranes are inserted nearer the centre of the fcetal surface than usual, leaving a margin uncovered all round. Marg^O.—A margin, edge, or border, e.g.