99 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF Table of Lymphatic Glands—continued ISIanie and Situation of Glands. Receive Afferent Vessels from :— Send Efferent Vessels to :— Cubital: occasionally at the bend of the elbow, more constantly above and in front of the internal condyle of the humerus. Axillary: on vessels and nerves of axilla, on lower edge of pectoralis major. Sternal: along internal mammary vessels. Intercostal : on either side of spinal column. Anterior mediastinal: in front of the aortic arch and innominate veins ; a lower set in front of the peri- cardium just above the diaphragm. Posterior mediastinal : along the thoracic aorta. Bronchial: small ones in the hilum of the lung on the branches of the bronchi ; larger on the lower part of the trachea, its bifurcation, and the large bronchi. Popliteal: superficial round the ter- mination of the short saphenous vein ; deep on the popliteal vessels. Superficial superior inguinal: ob- liquely in the line of Poupart. Superficial inferior inguinal; ver- tically along upper end of long saphenous vein. Beep inguinal: on inner side of femoral vein and in femoral ring. Arm Ulnar side of hand (radial side runs directly to axilla), efferent vessels from glands in the forearm when present. Arm, mamma, the side of the chest from the level of the umbilicus upwards. Thorax i Anterior walls of thorax and ab- domen, anterior part of diaphragm, inner part of mamma. Walls of thorax and costal pleurii Thymus, pericardium, heart, upper surface of anterior half of liver, and of diaphragm, efferent vessels from sternal glands. CEsophagus, hinder parts of peri- cardium and diaphragm. Lung, also trachea and posterior wall of heart, efferent vessels of posterior mediastinal glands. Leg Superficial, surface of the leg in the region of the short saphenous vein ; deep, deep lymph-vessels of the leg. Anterior abdominal wall, buttocks, perineum, anus, and external geni- tals (lower part of vagina). Surface of leg. Deep lymphatics of leg, some of efferent vessels of superficial in- guinal glands. Axillary glands. Axillary lymphatic trunk, opening into thoracic duct or right lym- phatic trunk, or into subclavian vein. These glands are contin- uous with the deep inferior cervical. Anterior mediastinal glands, or lymphatic trunks. Thoracic duct, or right lymphatic duct. Right and left lymphatic trunks. Bronchial glands or thoracic duct. Left, with or without efferent ves- sels of sternal and mediastinal glands to thoracic duct; right form broncho-mediastinal trunk, which receives the efferent ves- sels of the remaining glands of the right side of the thorax. Inguinal glands. Deep inguinal glands, or external iliac glands. Deep inguinal glands, or external iliac glands. Pass through femoral ring to ex ternal iliac glands. External iliac : on the external iliac vessels. Internal iliac: along internal iliac vessels. Sacral: in hollow of sacrum. Lateral lumbar : on either side in the intervals between the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae. Median lumbar : along the trunk and about the bifurcation of the aorta. Mesenteric: between the layers of the mesentery, and round the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. CkHoc : surround the cceliac axis and the aorta above the superior mesen- teric artery. Abdomen Abdominal wall, efferent vessels from inguinal glands. Pelvic viscera and parietes, vagina, cervix, and lower part of uterus. Pelvic viscera and parietes, rectum. Posterior part of abdominal wall. Sigmoid flexure, kidneys, supra- renals, testicles, ovaries, tubes, and upper part of uterus, posterior part of diaphragm, efferent vessels from iliac and sacral glands, and some from lateral lumbar glands. Lacteals of small intestine, and colon down to the sigmoid flexure. Stomach, upper half of duodenum, pancreas, spleen, greater part of the liver. Median lumbar glands. Median lumbar glands. Median lumbar glands. Median lumbar glands and lumbar lymphatic trunks, which unite to form commencement of tho- racic duct. Lumbar lymphatic trunks. Join efferent vessels of cceliac glands to form intestinal lym- phatic trunk, opening into tho- racic duct. Intestinal lymphatic trunk.