299 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE is excellent for words, had preserved a recol- lection of these associated names, on which my eyes must have rested while I was looking (as had happened two months previously) for the address of the depot of mineral waters. But the circumstance had gone out of my mind without the recollection being wholly effaced. Now, certainly, I could not have paid much attention in so rapid a glance." But it may be stated that generally when no attention is paid to an impression, the memory of it does not become fixed. All know that one may pass along a road or street, and not be able after- wards to recall a single person or thing one passed, although the eyes must have rested on many persons and things. On the other hand, impressions may become very firmly fixed in the memory, and usually, if not always, this firm fixation in the memory results from the attention having been intensely fixed on the cause of the impression. A beautiful view, an interesting book, a good story, a striking illustration, get all fixed in the memory readily, and this fact is taken advantage of every day in the education of children and others. II. Reprodtiction or Revival of the Previous Impression.—A more important thing, however, than the mere fixation of a memory is the fact that such memory can be revived, and such revival can take place in several ways. It may be revived either by an act of will, or by a similar impression or association of the original impression. What takes place in the nerve- cells or other nerve elements when a memory is revived? When such a revival takes place by a repetition of the same sensory impulse, probably we have a repetition of the same process in the same nerve elements. Does the same thing occur when one revives a memory in ideation only, when, for instance, one thinks of an object, such as a picture, which he may have seen at a previous time ? There can be little doubt that there is here also a repetition of the same nerve processes in the same nerve elements as took place when the picture was originally before the eyes. This has been well expressed by Bain, who says that "it is quite demonstrated that the impression renewed occupies exactly the same parts and in the same manner as in the primitive impression. As an example, experiment shows that the persistent idea of a brilliant colour fatigues the optic nerve. If one thinks intensely on a coloured object with the eyes closed, and then opens the eyes and looks at a white surface, the coloured object is seen in the complementary colour." This fact, Wundt says, proves that the nervous operation is the same in the two cases, viz., in the primary perception and in the revival of the same in the memory. This has a bearing on the question of the seeing of objects and persons who are not present, and the hearing of voices when there is no one near to produce the voice. In fact, it is possible in this way to explain many of the experiences and experiments of spiritualists. In visuals, for instance, it is possible for a visual memory to be so intensely and completely raised by the same nerve processes in the same nerve elements as revived the original impression of, for instance, a person long since dead, that the idea of the person may be so complete as to appear to the individual actually existing before his eyes. This is the explanation of illusions and halhicinations which occur in fevers and in diseased states of the brain; but that such phenomena occur also in apparently healthy persons there can be little doubt. I will later refer to this under Hypermnesia or Excitation of Memory. Let me emphasise the fact that revival of a memory takes place not only by the recur- rence of the previous sensation or action, and by an act of will, but frequently by the revival of memories which were associated with the original memory. One sensation or action becomes associated with other sensations or actions for many reasons. It may be because of a resemblance between them, because of a contrast or dissimilarity, because each has an association with some other sensation or action, although not hitherto with each other. There may, in fact, be many causes for one sensation or action becoming associated with or linked to another, but one of the most important causes for _ associations is that the original im- pressions occurred at or about the same time. When two nerve actions occur at or about the same time, the revival of the one at any future time is apt to be followed by the revival of the other. This would show that, when two nerve- cells or groups of cells perform their function at or about the same time, they are apt to have dynamic associations formed between them. The more associations, therefore, a memory has, the more apt it is to be revived. This explains how proper names and concrete nouns are more apt to escape the memory than the other parts of speech—a point to be referred to later. As the more frequently and more intensely a memory has been fixed the more likely is it to remain permanent and become organised, so the more frequently it is revived the more easily it can be revived. III. Recognition, as Ribot states, consists in locating the memory in time. When we recog- nise an old memory we really locate it in time, and we do this by mentally determining its relationship to the present time. In fact, we could not have any idea of time if it were not for memory ; all would be present; we would have no past, nor could we anticipate the future. We not only locate our memories of events by mentally determining their relationship in time to the present, but each of us have in our past