MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 337 born with well-developed mammse, the pubes was covered with hair, and she menstruated regularly from her third year. Menstruation may indeed appear at any time from a few days after birth to the normal age of puberty. In a few cases there have been the other external signs of puberty without menstruation, and also menstruation without other signs of puberty. Several instances have been recorded where precocious puberty has been associated with pelvic tumours, such as ovarian cysts. In some of the cases where puberty has occurred precociously conception has taken place, e.g. in children aged from nine to thir- teen years. Delayed Puberty.—In other instances puberty may be abnormally late in manifesting itself without any obvious cause. Thus in one case it did not appear till the twenty-fifth year. Nubility.—Though normally the menstrual flow is established about the age of fifteen, the body is not physiologically fit for the strain of reproduction till some years later. In temperate climates a woman is not "nubile" till the age of twenty-one, though marriage, conception, and parturition frequently take place much earlier. Statistics show that such premature pregnancies are specially productive of suffering and disease in the mother, whilst the offspring are ill- developed, difficult to rear, and frequently afflicted in body and mind. Too early marriages tend to produce a puny, blighted, deteriorated race. The Phenomena of Normal Menstruation. —Periodicity.—At the outset we are struck by the extraordinary periodicity of the process. In this country the average healthy woman, from the age of fifteen to the age of forty-five, menstruates regularly every twenty-eight days. The menstrual clock is, so to speak, wound up to go for thirty years, and strike once every lunar month—a rhythm of function that suggests that it must be due to rhythmical changes in a controlling nerve centre. Type.—By the menstrual " type " is meant the number of days from the first day of one period to the first day of the next. It is the index of the woman's regularity. About 75 per cent of healthy women have a twenty-eight-day type, and about 15 per cent a thirty-day type. A few are over or under these limits. We are quite in the dark as to what essentially deter- mines a woman's menstrual type. Habit. — This term is used to denote the duration of the period. In healthy women it may last from two to eight days—usually from four to five days. From one to two ounces of blood are lost on an average on each day of the period. Clinically, we may form a rough estimate of the amount of loss by learning the number of diapers used—allowing about one ounce of blood to each diaper. The menstrual discharge, when fully estab- VOL. VI lished, is a thin dark bloody fluid, somewhat resembling prune juice, of alkaline reaction, and a peculiar heavy odour. In health it is pre- vented from clotting by the admixture of alkaline mucus. Microscopically it contains red and white blood corpuscles, columnar and cubical epithelium shed from the uterine mucous membrane and the uterine glands, connective- tissue cells, and minute particles of the sub- epithelial stroma. Mixed with it are numerous squamous epithelial cells from the vagina. In addition to the flow of blood there is also an increased secretion of the sebaceous glands of the vulva at the onset of menstruation, and an increased secretion of mucus from the uterus and vagina both before, during, and after the period. llie Menstrtml Wave.—Professor Stephenson has shown that menstrual life is associated with a well-marked wave of vital energy which manifests itself in a monthly fluctuation of the temperature of the body, of the daily excretion of urea, and of the rate and tension of the pulse. During the day or two preceding the period the temperature rises half a degree above normal, the amount of urea excreted attains its maximum, and the pulse-rate and arterial tension rise. During the period these various phenomena decline to normal, and after the period they fall to below normal. This wave indicates a periodic variation in the general metabolism, probably induced or influenced by the rhyth- mical activity of the nervous mechanism which controls menstruation. Nervous and Vascular Symptoms.—Each re- curring period is apt to produce disturbances in the woman's nervous system. Even in healthy women it induces a state of increased nervous instability and excitability, whilst lunatics and epileptics are always worse at these times. There is frequently headache, hypersesthesia, and irritability of the temper. The breasts may be swollen and tender. The thyroid glands may swell markedly. There is often a feeling of weight, fulness, and uneasiness in the pelvis, back, and lower abdomen, and frequently some irritability of the bladder. Pigmentary changes in the skin are not uncommon; for example, such dark areas may form round the eyes as to almost produce the appearance of a double "black eye." Changes in the Internal Genitals. —There is a general turgescence of the pelvic viscera (uterus, Fallopian tubes, and ovaries) most marked in the uterus, and reaching its acme at the onset of each menstrual epoch. In the ovaries there may or may not be a ripe follicle: it is now well established that ovulation and menstrua- tion are not coincident or consecutive processes. The uterus just before the onset of menstruation is swollen, erect, firm, and deeply congested. As menstruation proceeds its vascularity lessens, its muscular wall becomes softer and laxer, and