118 MALARIA Species 1 : HcBmamoeba Danilewskii, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Laverania Danilewskii, Grassi and Feletti, in part; Halteridium Danileivskii, Labbe; etc. Several varieties— possibly distinct species. Parasite of pigeons, jays, crows, etc. Species 2: Hoeniamoeba relicta, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Hmmammba relicta + H. subjwce- cox + H. subimmaculata, Grassi and Feletti; Proteosoma Grassii, Labbe; etc. Parasite of sparrows, larks, etc. Species 3 : Hcemamoeba malarice, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Ilcernamceba Laverani, Labbe, in part. Parasite of quartan fever of man. Species 4: Hcemamoeba vivax, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Hmmamaeba Laverani, Labbe, in part. Parasite of tertian fever of man. Genus II. : Haemomenas, gen. nov. Syn. : Laverania, in part+ //ct;«iamQ?5a, in part, Grassi and Feletti. The gametocytes have a special crescentic form. Species: Hoemomenas praecox, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Hceinamoeba prcecox + H. im- maculata + Laverania malarice, Grassi and Feletti; Hcemamoeba Laverani, Labbe, in part, etc. Several varieties—possibly distinct species. Parasite of the irregular, remittent, pernicious, tropical, or sestivo-autumnal fever of man. This classification and nomenclature must be regarded as provisional; doubtless, as our knowledge of these parasites advances, modifi- cations and additions will be necessary. It will be seen that under Genus I. there are two species of human malarial parasites, namely, Hoemamceba vivax, and Hcemamoeba malaricB— the parasites of benign tertian and quartan fever respectively. Under Genus II. there is one species, namely, Hcemomenas prcecox—the parasite of malignant or tropical malaria. Mannaberg and others subdivide this malig- nant variety into three distinct species, namely, a tertian, a non-pigmented quotidian, and a pigmented quotidian. This classification is, however, not universally accepted, and pending further investigations it is, on the whole, preferable to regard the malignant parasites as belonging to one species. That the three species of the malarial parasite, namely, the benign tertian, the quartan, and the malignant, are distinct species, and not merely varieties, as Laveran and others formerly maintained, is strongly supported by the fact that the inoculation of one type of parasite, either by means of the mosquito or by the direct inociilation of human malarial blood, gives rise to the corresponding type of the parasite, and no other, in the individual inoculated. The three species of the malarial parasite possess many features in common both m their morphology and in their life-history, so that, before proceeding to describe in detail the dis- tinctive features of each, it will be well to give here a general account of the parasite. A detailed description of each parasite will be found under the heading " Clinical Manifesta- tions of Malaria" on pp. 134, 13.5, and 138. General Description of Malarial Parasite.— The malarial organism is parasitic in man and in certain species of mosquito, the former being- its intermediate host, the latter its definitive host. It varies markedly in size during its phases of development, being in man from 1 fj. to 8 in the mosquito from 8 /x to 40 /j,, or even 60 /j, in diameter. In the human host it develops within the red blood corpuscle. Here, during the stage of its growth, it is a vmicellu- lar organism consisting of protoplasm, nucleus, and nucleolus. It possesses the power of motion, of growth, of absorbing and assimilating nutritive material, and of reproducing itself. The cell protoplasm is homogeneous, colourless, and somewhat diffluent, for current waves may be observed in its substance. The increase in size which the parasite imdergoes is chiefly due to the growth of its cell protoplasm. This stains readily with the ordinary basic dyes. The nucleus is a round, feebly refractile body which cannot, as a rule, be recognised in the living state. In early stages of development of the parasite the nucleus is of a relatively larger size than at the later stages. It contains chromatin matter which is regarded as the nucleolus and which, by special methods, stains intensely and characteristically (Fig. 1). normal red ce/l Fig. 1.—Illustrating anatomy ot benign tertian parasite. Whilst within the red corpuscle the parasite possesses amoeboid movement which enables it to change its position as well as its shape in the red cell. It is most active during its earlier stages of development. In the advanced stages amoeboid movement ceases. The parasite assimilates the haemoglobin of the red corpuscle which it has infected, and elaborates from it characteristic melanin gran- ules. These pigment granules under certain