423 MILK the London shops being 3,000,000 to 4,000,000. For the purpose of enumeration it must be diluted 1 : 0-1, 0-01, and 0-001 c.c. to 10 c.c. of water, so as to obtain a numerable dilution. For the quantitative examination a sample of the milk is centrifugalised in a stoppered tube, the cream and the sediment collected separately, and the " skimmed milk " thrown away. The sediment and the cream are spread on clean cover slips, dried, flamed, and immersed for at least five minutes in alcohol, in ether to remove the fat, and in alcohol again, and after washing in water stained by the Ziehl-Neelson method for the detection of tubercle bacilli. Milk always contains some leucocytes, but when twenty or thirty are visible in the field of a ^ objective it is suspicious, and the sediment of some samples actually consists of pus, even when tubercle bacilli may not be seen. In such and in other doubtful cases inoculations should be made on guinea-pigs. The Klebs-Lofiler bacillus may be found by taking advantage of its rapid growth on inspissated blood serum. That of enteric fever is so soon crowded out by others that it can rarely be demonstrated, but a large number of B. coli, especially in milk that has been fraudulently watered, is suspicious. B. coli is evidence of the presence of foecal matter, the cow's; or of that of man derived from polluted water. The bacteria of diphtheria, scarlatina, and enteric fever are also of extrinsic origin; but besides the B. tuberculosis numerous pus organisms and streptococci of mammitis and other diseases of the vidders are intrinsic, and may be pathogenic at any rate to infants, as are those of foot and mouth disease.^ Chemical Tests for Preservatives.—Boric and salicylic acids are detected by the usual labora- tory tests, those for the latter being really tests for phenol, but that as such is an impossible adulteration. For the qualitative determination of boric and salicylic acids reference should be made to Richmond's work. Formaldehyd is detected by the red colour following the addition of 1-2 c.c. of a O'l per cent watery solution of phloroglucin, with a few drops of liq. pot. or sod. to 8-10 c.c. of milk. It is not a quantitative test, since the deepest colouration is produced when the formaldehyd is present in the proportion of 0'00004, and a rose tint can be recognised in 0-00004 dilutions, but little, if any, in 10-30 per cent solutions. Since, however, the quantity of formaldehyd in milk is always very small, this anomaly does not detract from the value of the test. (For other tests, see Richmond, op. cit.) Section VIII.—Control It is much to be desired that the county councils should, as in Italy, appoint a veterinary 1 The best instructions for the bacteriological examina- tion of milk will be found in a paper by Mr. "Walter Pakes in Public Health for March 1900. surgeon, co-ordinate with the county medical officer of health, and exercise through these officers, assisted by those of the local authorities, the general control of dairy farms. A few of the great dairy companies do this to a certain extent with the farms with which they deal, but these form a small minority, and the rest are under no supervision whatever, except in some of the southern counties of Scotland. Such in- spection shoxild extend to the health of the cows, the conditions of the sheds, cow-houses, and yards, the water-supply, and the cleanliness and arrangements of the dairies as treated in sections I. and V. So vast an undertaking as the total elimina- tion of tuberculosis, Utopian as it might appear, would be practicable by means of legislative and organised action, as it has been successfully carried out by individual owners of herds in Denmark and in this country following the procedure laid down by Professor Bang of Copenhagen. Tuberculin, an extract from sterilised cultures of the bacillus, though not curative or preventive of the disease, provides an almost unerring means of diagnosing its presence long before any physical signs appear. Injected into a healthy animal it produces no eff'ect, but in all but the very earliest stages of tuberculosis it gives rise to a febrile disturbance extending over several days and with a character- istic curve, provided the operation be performed and the eff'ects observed by experts. Bang directs that the entire herd be tested simul- taneously, those that react removed to other sheds at a distance, and no communication per- mitted between the attendants on the healthy and the affected animals. The latter should be at once fattened for the butcher unless already in calf, when they may be allowed to calve once, since the instances of congenital transmission are infinitely rare; but the calves must, if not killed, be transferred immediately to the healthy herd. The stalls of the healthy cattle should have been thoroughly disinfected, and any newly purchased cows kept in quarantine while being tested. Since some incipient cases may have failed to react, the testing should be repeated at intervals of six months, until, on the second, or at the latest the third testing, none are found to respond. Under any circum- stances should tubercle bacilli be found in the mixed milk of a herd, the affected animal or animals should be traced by sampling each cow's milk in succession, after having restricted the field by the examination of that of groups. Milk Fever.—The slight rise of tempera- ture which occurs about the third day of the puerperium, and which is associated with the establishment of lactation; it is not to be confounded with the fever of septic infection which also shows itself about this time, but it is possible that in many cases the name milk