MEASLES 221 of the population actually died of the disease within three months. The existence of measles is apparently un- influenced by climate. Outbreaks have been observed to spread as readily in cold countries like Iceland, Norway, and Lapland, as in the Tropics. It attacks the black races equally with the white. No special liability attaches to sex and very little to age. The reason why adults are less often attacked than children is that most grown persons have already had the disease in childhood, and have thus acquired protection. In the extensive insular epidemics referred to, in which the disease fell upon an unprotected community, both children and adults were attacked promiscuously, although it was noted in both instances that young infants and very old people were comparatively seldom affected. The same relative immunity of infants under six months is noticeable in this country. In England the records show that predisposition to measles increases from birth until the fourth year, when it is at its height; after which it falls rapidly. Considerably more than half the measles attacks occur in the first five years of life, and seven-eighths at ages under ten. In this country, where measles is endemic, a partial increase of susceptibility is apparent from about the age of puberty up to twenty or twenty-five years, owing, no doubt, to a progressive weaken- ing of the protection conferred by a previous attack. After this age the incidence again diminishes, apparently in virtue of a natural diminution of susceptibility which attaches to advancing age. Measles very rarely occurs in persons over forty. In the large, densely populated towns of the United Kingdom measles is an important factor in the mortality, and according to the Registrar- General's returns there seems to have been no improvement in this respect during the last half- century. In London during the period 1841-90 the average number of deaths from measles was 595 per million of the population, and during the last few years it has been even higher, while in some of the large manufacturing towns in the north and Midlands this number has been considerably exceeded. In England and Wales measles is responsible for about 13,000 deaths annually, and next to infantile diarrhoea, con- tributes more largely to the zymotic mortality than any other disease. Measles prevalence markedly varies with season. For the large towns of this country the monthly curve exhibits a double rise—one in the spring and early summer, the other in the winter. In London the maxima fall in June and December, the minima in February and September. In certain of the northern towns, as is the case in Paris, Berlin, and many con- tinental cities, both the prevalence and fatality of the disease are greater in the spring than during the winter; but the reverse is true of London. In addition to this seasonal cycle, in communities where measles is endemic, periods characterised by epidemic extension of the disease tend to recur at short though strikingly regular intervals. In the towns of Great Britain the interval is usually about two years, though often six months more or less. The regularity with which this extension recurs is doubtless to be explained by the gradual accumulation of susceptible persons, and the seasonal cycle. Further, as has been pointed out by Whitelegge, there is clear evidence of the existence of larger waves of increased measles prevalence, attended with higher mortality, the maxima of which in the case of several English towns have been separated by intervals of about twenty years. These waves are regarded by Whitelegge as evidence of the progressive intensification of the measles virus, and he speaks of them as major epidemics as opposed to the biennial extensions which might be likened to ripples on their surface. Type and Fatality.—All records, both clinical and statistical, tend to show that in the past the type of the disease in different epidemics has been subject to wide variation, although in respect to individual outbreaks the maintenance of a uniform type of attack through suc- cessive cases is more often observed in the case of measles than with either scarlet fever or diphtheria. The fatality of measles when epidemic is mainly determined by the proportion of young children amongst those attacked, the coldness of the season, poverty, and a defective hygiene, of which overcrowding and inadequate ventilation are undoubtedly the most important factors. Although epidemics characterised by malig- nant intensity were not infrequent in the past, the death-rate of any local outbreak in this country is rarely as high as 10 per cent at the present day, and generally a good deal less. During an extensive outbreak at Sunderland in 1885, however, the case mortality reached the alarming height of 29 •! per cent. The death-rate of 6 "7 per cent recorded by Dr. Theodore Thomson for an urban population of 35,000 persons, where the notification of measles was in force, may probably be regarded as a fairly representative one. The percentage fatality of 12,273 cases of measles admitted into the Glasgow Fever Hospital during the thirty years from 1870-99 was 8'8, but it varied in different years between 12*2 and 2 "2 per cent. At Burton-on-Trent, accord- ing to Dr. Killick Millard, the fatality of measles from January 1894 to May 1900 ranged in different years between I'51 and 3 "5 per cent, the aggregate mortality of the 8311 cases being 2-2 per cent. Spread and Infectivity.—Direct contact with a previous case of measles is undoubtedly the most important factor in the spread of the