MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 311 spinal meninges are, as a rule, involved to a greater or less extent. The meningitis is only rarely limited to the base, except where it is secondary to adjacent disease, especially ear disease; it is then often unilateral and quite circumscribed. Meningitis, chiefly averting the vertex, may result from local adjacent disease, but it is also the form most commonly found in association with the acute fevers and more general infective processes ; it is then generally diffuse and often bilateral. The first change is hyperaemia of the pia arachnoid, quickly followed by opacity of the membrane. In cases very rapidly fatal, this may be all that is seen. But very soon an inflammatory exudation is poured out into the subarachnoid spaces. At first pus is found, especially over the sulci, in small foci which unite more and more until a thick coating of yellowish-green pus may be found beneath the arachnoid, mainly over the convexity, completely hiding the convolutions {e.g. in some cases secondary to pneumonia). The surface layer of the cortex is also affected by the inflammation, and small htemorrhages and purulent foci may be seen in it; more rarely, abscesses develop in the inside of the brain. Tlie condition of the ventricles varies very considerably, both as regards the degree of dilatation and the char- acters of the contents. In cases of purulent meningitis of the convexity—by far the larger number—the ventricles are, as a rule, very slightly distended, if at all; where any amount of internal hydrocephalus occurs, it will generally be found that there is also affection of the meninges at the base, which obliterates the openings between the fourth ventricle and the subarachnoid spaces {vide Anatomy and Physio- logy, p. 305). The fluid in the ventricles is, in many cases, simply serous ; in other cases, it is opaque and contains flakes of fibrinous lymph or pus—in these cases there is extension of the inflammation to the ventricles, the lining mem- brane of which is generally opaque and swollen. A purulent meningitis, limited to the ventricles, has been described in children. Symjitoms.—The onset of purulent meningitis is often obscured by the cerebral symptoms of the disease to which the meningitis is secondary {e.g. head injury, acute infectious disease). It is, indeed, not at all uncommon for vertical meningitis to be found post-mortem, while there were no symptoms intra vitam by which it could be diagnosed with certainty; this is specially true of meningitis secondary to distant suppuration. As a rule, the first symptom and chief com- plaint is headache, which may be violent and continuous, but with exacerbations; in men- ingitis associated with general septic conditions and pneumonia there may be little, if any, complaint of headache. Delirium is a frequent early sign, and is generally most marked when the fever is high; it is characteristic of the headache that it continues during the delirium, and, even while the patient is semi-comatose, he groans or cries out and puts his hand to his head. Vomiting is frequent in the early stages, especially in basilar meningitis. While he is conscious, giddiness is frequently com- plained of, and there is marked hypersensitive- ness to liglit and sound and touch. Rigors may occur at the onset or during the course of the disease. Fever is, as a rule, present from the start. In the most acute forms the temperature may rise quickly to 104° or 105° and remain high till death. More usually it is moderate in grade, 101° to 103°, generally with irregular fluctuations, and before death a further rise may occur up to 106° or 108', but not rarely it falls below normal at the end. The pulse in some cases is frequent throughout, but much more often, especially at the onset, a slowing of the pulse is found, which is in striking contrast to the heightened temperature. Subsequently the pulse tends to become irregular, and the rise of temperature before death is usually associated with extreme frequency and smallness of the pulse. Stiffness of the neck muscles and retraction of the head are important signs of basilar meningitis. Rigidity in other muscles can usually also be made out: thus, when the patient sits on the edge of the bed with his legs hanging down, the lower leg cannot be completely straightened owing to rigidity of the flexors of the knee (Kernig's sign; see p. 330). The abdominal muscles are often hard and the abdomen retracted. There is often marked hypersesthesia of the skin and muscles, so that light touches cause very active reflexes. Tache cerehrale is often present, but is not characteristic. There is usually marked constipation: in the somnolent state retention of urine is more common than incontinence, but both urine and faeces are often passed involuntarily at the end. There is very often rapid emaciation and a great tendency to sloughs and bed-sores in the last stages, if the case is at all prolonged. Symptoms of implication of the brain itself and of the cranial nerves are very important, the latter occurring with special frequency where the base of the brain is affected. The chief symptoms in the region of the cranial nerves are—the pupils are often unequal, and they are at first usually contracted, later dilated and fixed; ptosis and strabismus are frequent, nystagmus less common ; facial paresis is not uncommon, often associated with facial tremors; trismus and gritting of the teeth occur, and there may be anaesthesia of the face and trophic changes in the cornea. Optic neuritis, often slight and accompanied by little impairment of vision, is not uncommon when