166 MALT maltose. It is not official, but it may be given in the form of a powder in doses of from 1-2 3 to aid the digestion of farinaceous foods, and it is an ingredient of many of the proprietary foods for infants. From it is prepared Extractum Malti (official), also called Extractum Bynes. It is a liquid of the density of honey prepared by macerating malt with water and then evaporating. If it is boiled during the process of manufacture the diastatic ferment is destroyed. It contains, in addition to the ferment, maltose, dextrin, and a varying quantit}' of alcohol. A liquid extract known as Bynin is now preferred to the moi'e solid extract; in its preparation the malt infusion is concentrated in vacuo instead of by heat. By reason of the maltose it contains, malt extract is very nutritious, and is of great value in the treatment of wasting diseases like phthisis, apart altogether from the presence of the diastase. It is easily tolerated by the stomach and is, therefore, specially indicated in convales- cence from acute illness, and in chronic diseases when cod-liver oil is not well borne. An active malt preparation is also of service in cases of dyspepsia with imperfect digestion of carbo- hydrates. As it acts best in an alkaline medium it should not be given for this purpose until at least two hours after a meal. Malt forms an emulsion with cod-liver oil, a combination frequently given to weakly children and tuber- culous patients of all ages: the oil should constitute at least 15 per cent of the mixture. Malt may also be administered in combination with iron, strychnine, and the glycerophosphates. " Bynin Amara" is an analogue of Easton's Syrup, consisting of liquid malt extract with the phos- phates of quinine, iron, and strychnine. Taka Diastase is a powder possessed of strong amy- lolytic properties ; it is prepared by the cultiva- tion on bran of a fungus, Eurotimn Oryzce. It is used in doses of from 1-5 grains in the same class of cases as malt. Malta. Fever. See Undulant Fever ; Malaria {Diagnosis) ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Non-malarial " Remittent" Fever). Malthusianism.—The doctrine of T. R. Malthus (6. 1766, d. 1835), that the rate of increase of the population is out of proportion to the increase of food supplies, etc., and that it ought to be checked ; in these days of diminish- ing birth-rates, Malthusianism has ceased to be a matter of practical politics (if it ever was one). Malti ne.—Various proprietary prepara- tions, used as foods or medicines, and containing malted wheat or barley, are called maltine. See also Malt, Bynin, Bynol, etc. Maltose.—A sugar (C,2H220jj), formed, along with dextrin, from starch when it is acted upon by a dilute acid or by the ferment diastase ; it is a disaccharid, two glucose mole- cules (CgHjgOfl) polymerising to form one maltose one. See Malt ; Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth). MaltOSUria.—The presence of maltose in the urine. See Glycosuria. Malum.—A disease, in such terms as malum venereum {syphilis); malum coxse senile {arthritis deformans of hip); malum senile {arthritis deformans); and malum perforans pedis {perforatiiuj ulcer of the foot). Malvern. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Mammary Gland, Diseases of. Anatomical Considerations . . .167 Congenital Anomalies— Polymastia—Polythelia . . .171 Amazia—Micromazia . . .171 Athelia 171 Hypertrophy. . . . . .171 Affections of the Nipple and Areola— Undeveloped and Retracted Nipples . 173 Injiammatory Affections of the Nipple —Fissure, etc. . . . .173 Syjihilitic Affections . . . .173 Tumoui's . . . . . .174 Inflammatory Affections of the Mamma— Mastitis of l7ifancy . . . .174 Mastitis of Adolescence . . .174 Puerperal Mastitis . . . .175 (a) Simple . . . . .175 (6) Suppurative . . . .175 Chronic Mastitis . . . .178 (a) Diffuse Interstitial Mastitis . 178 {/)) Chronic Lobular Mastitis and Multiple Cystic Disease . 179 (c) Circumscribed Chronic Mastitis 183 Chronic Abscess {non-tuberculous) . 183 Tuberculosis . . . . . .184 Actinomycosis . . . . .185 Mastodynia 185 Cysts— Galactocele . . . . .186 Cysts in Chronic Lobular Mastitis . 186 Involution Cysts . . . .186 Hydatid Cysts. . . . .187 Neoplasms of the Mamma— Simjyle . . . . . .187 FUjro-Adenoma . . . .187 {a) Hard Fibro-Adenoma . .188 {b) Soft Fibro-Adenoma . .188 (c) Cysto-Adenoma . . .188 {d) Proliferous Cysto-Adenonui . 188 Pure Adenoma . . . .189 Pure Fibroma . . . .189 Duct Papilloma . . , .189 Fatty Tumours . . . .190 Osteo-Chondroma . . . .190 Angioma . . . . .190