64 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS Night-Sweating. ■—Under proper fresh-air regime night-sweats are practically unknown. Patients are frequently admitted, requiring to be changed several times in the night, and within a week their night-sweating ceases entirely. Where the tendency exists, in addition to the open-air regime and light clothing, benefit is had from sponging—it may be with acidulated water—and dry rubbing, and, where not other- wise contraindicated, bathing and douching. Dusting of the surface with tannoform powder may prove helpful in cases where open-air methods in fullest sense are difficult of attain- ment, and camphoric acid (gr. x.-xv.) internally. Atropine, picrotoxin, and agaricin may also be mentioned. It is a mistake, however, to ad- minister remedies for a symptom which can be more simply and physiologically removed. Sleeplessness is remarkably lessened under the open-air regime. Where in spite of this it continues, it may be relieved by a warm cup of soup or milk and whisky. Of drugs, par- aldehyde (5j.-5jss.) is one of the most serviceable. Sulphonal (gr. xv.-xx. carefully dissolved in hot fluid) or trional (gr. x.-xv.) is sometimes success- ful. If cough or other irritating condition prevent sleep, a slight narcotic—codein, dionin, or even morphine—may be necessary. In all cases the state of the gastro-intestinal tract must be looked to. Sleeplessness may result from foolish endeavours after forced feeding. The treatment of complications, such as genito-urinary, laryngeal, and meningeal tuber- culosis, is considered elsewhere. The treatment of acute miliary tuberculosis can meantime be symptomatic only. Nor are the results of treatment encouraging. Pulmonary Fibrosis General Description . . , . .64 Etiology ...... 64 Pathological Anatomy .... 65 Clinical Features ..... 65 Physical Signs ..... 66 Diagnosis ...... 66 Prognosis ...... 67 Treatment ...... 67 Synonyms : Chronic Interstitial Pneumonia, Cirrhosis of Lung, Fibroid Phthisis} General Description.—It is easier to define pulmonary fibrosis from the anatomical than from the clinical standpoint. Histologically, it consists in an increase of the fibrous tissue elements of the lung at the expense of the air cells and passages, blood-vessels, and more distant organs. Viewed thus, pulmonary fibrosis is a highly important pathological process of far- ^ The term Fibroid Phthisis is objectionable. By older writers, and more recently by Andrew Clark and others, it has been used to include conditions which would have been better designated chronic tuberculosis. The term had better be dropped. reaching significance, but can hardly be regarded as a clinical entity. It is an essential factor in the progress of several different lung conditions. Thus it plays a leading part in relation to the very large group of chronic pulmonary tubercu- losis {(j[.v.). Proliferative changes in connective tissue elements occur early in pulmonary tuberculosis, and in chronic tuberculosis fibrosis becomes a marked feature. Similarly, fibrosis of lung tissue has etiological relationships with other organic poisons, e.g. the syphilitic. To this category may also, perhaps, be relegated cirrhotic changes developing in connection with broncho-pneumonia, in the wake of measles, whooping-cough, and other infective processes, and those which, it may be admitted, occasion- ally follow croupous pneumonia. Again, pul- monary fibrosis is a conspicuous feature in many cases of pneumonokoniosis (q.v.), more particu- larly those which occur in stone or metal workers. Without further dwelling on this meantime, it may be said generally that pulmonary fibrosis is an expression of irritation. In relation to organic irritants the fibrosis results from the activity of organisms or their toxic products. At other times the irritation is mechanical. Whatever the nature of the irritation, the resulting fibrosis is much the same, affecting variously the peribronchial, perivascular, inter- alveolar, interlobular, or subpleural connective tissue. Moreover, the clinical expression of fibrosis is alike, whatever the cause, consisting especially in cough and dyspnoea, with physical signs of consolidation and shrinkage. The various names applied to the condition— pulmonary fibrosis, chronic interstitial pneu- monia, and the like—-were introduced at a time when etiological relationships were less well understood. With refinement of etiological knowledge the position of chronic interstitial pneumonia as a distinct disease has become imperilled. It remains a question whether it is better to name a disease in relation to etio- logical factors or to the leading effects. The former is the more modern conception and method. According to this, pulmonary fibrosis falls to be described in connection with a number of different diseases. Nevertheless, pulmonary fibrosis serves conveniently to de- scribe a conspicuous morbid process apt to be induced by irritation of different kinds, and followed by certain consequents in connection with lung function and circulation. Etiology. — The causes which produce in- crease of fibrous tissue are numerous. The list includes a considerable variety of irritants which reach the lungs in different ways. In some cases the resulting fibrosis is slight and only determinable on minute examination ; at other times it bulks so largely that the primary etiological factor may be overshadowed. A sufficient scrutiny will reveal the existence of an irritant in all cases.