DISEASES OF THE JAW MOUTH—INJURIES AND 465 ment at this stage the disease may subside. As a rule, however, matters are neglected; the in- flammation spreads to the general periosteum of a greater or less extent of the jaw. In this way the nutrition of the bone suffers, and finally more or less of it becomes necrosed. The pus may burrow towards the cheek or down into the neck; and if neglected, numerous sin- uses may form, and these persist until the dead bone is removed. Treatment.—Stockman states that as regards prophylaxis there is absolutely no risk of inflam- mation as long as the bone remains protected by gum, and even when carious teeth are present the entrance of the organisms can be prevented by careful stopping. Efficient ven- tilation of the workshops will prevent the acid fumes arising from the phosphorus and make them less active in injuring exposed bone. As- suming that the aff'ection is due to the tubercle bacillus, the matter is then quite apart from the factories and cannot be controlled at present either by State regulations or workshop rules. It is acquired, as other tuberculous affections are acquired, by certain persons and not by others ; and, owing to the wide distribu- tion of the organism, persons with exposed bone, eroded by acid fumes, are very apt to become infected. Every attention must be paid to the cleaning and scaling of the teeth, so that no tartar becomes deposited on them; all decayed teeth must be cleaned out and stopped, and great attention paid to the cleanliness of the mouth generally. In the early stages of the disease it is advisable to get the mouth as clean as possible by using antiseptic mouth- washes every half-hour or so. Local complica- tions round the neck of the tooth, such as tincture of aconite or of pyrethrum, seem to lessen the inflammatory reaction. The gums must be carefully watched for the formation of any collection of pus under them, and as soon as this is detected it must be incised and washed out. The effort of the surgeon must be directed especially to prevent the accumulation of pus in any part of the mouth. In this way any extensive necrosis can be readily prevented. When necrosis has once formed, the region must be kept as clean as possible, and as soon as the dead fragment is separated from the living it must be removed. B. Localised Suppurative Periostitis.—Under this heading we have the very common trouble known as alveolar abscess. Owing to the way in which the pus may burrow in neglected cases, the alveolar abscess has considerable interest, and therefore must be considered in this article as well as in the article on "Diseases of the Teeth." Etiology and Pathology/. — This probably always originates by the introduction of micro- organisms through some decayed focus in the tooth or some abrasion of the gum at the neck VOL. VI of the tooth. It is stated that in some cases an abscess appears to rise without any morbid condition of the teeth or gum; but this is probably a mistake, as a very careful search would probably lead to the discovery of the point of entrance. It must be remembered that slight abrasion of the gum at the neck of the tooth which may have allowed the organ- isms to enter may have healed up subsequently, and so concealed the point of entrance. Ac- cording to Tomes, as the disease progresses the periosteum becomes detached from the cemen- tum, and the point of suppuration usually commences at and extends from the foramen in the root of the tooth, and as the pus forms in greater and greater amount, the fang gradually loses its vitality and the pus gradually causes dilatation of the socket. As soon as the tension exercised by the presence of the pus reaches a certain degree the pus finds its way to the surface. One of the most common ways is for the pus to find its way up the side of the tooth, between it and the socket, reaching the surface at the edge of the gum either on the inner or outer side of the tooth, thus forming the ordi- nary gum-boil. As a rule, the pus pierces the gum within the mouth. In the case of the upper incisor teeth, however, the pus tends to burrow between the periosteum of the hard palate and the bone, thus forming a palatal abscess. When the upper incisor teeth are decayed the abscess may point within the nostrils. An abscess in connection with the molar teeth of the upper jaw may point on the surface of the face above the reflection of the buccal mucous membrane. In other cases the pus may burst into the antrum of High- more. In the case of the lower jaw the pus may find its way on to the face near the lower margin of the jaw ; and, in the case of the molar teeth, the pus may burrow down into the neck and have to be opened even below the cavicle. Symptoms.—At first there is a dull sensation familiar to most people scarcely worthy of the name of pain. At this early stage the uneasi- ness or pain may be removed by biting upon the teeth. As the trouble progresses there is a dull aching pain and the tooth is slightly raised from its socket. The pain soon becomes more and more acute and throbbing in character, and the constitutional symptoms become very severe, accompanied by a high temperature. In addi- tion to the swelling of the gum in the region of the tooth the oedema may spread to the soft tissues of the face and cause marked swelling there. There is very often sudden relief to the pain when the pus finds its way out of the tooth socket, because it is then collecting at consider- ably lower pressure. It is this sudden improve- ment in the pain that may lead the medical attendant to think that the abscess has subsided, whereas the pus may be forming in large