369 METANEPHROS ture which develops into the permanent kidney and ureter. Meta.pla.Sia,. — The transformation of one adult tissue into another, e.g. of cartilage into bone, or of red into yellow marrow. IVIetarg'On. — A gas entering in very small quantities into the composition of the atmospheric air. Metastasis. — The transference of a disease (or a symptom) from one part or parts to another, usually at some distance therefrom, e.g. from the testicle to the lung. See Mumps {Complications); Parotid Gland, Disorders OF [Injlammatory Conditions) ; Puerperium, Pathology {Deciduonia Malignum, Pathological Anatomy). Metastern U m.—The ensiform cartilage or xiphisternum. MetasyncrisiS.—An old term for the evacuation of morbid matter through the skin, i.e. by diaphoresis. MetasyphiliS.—Morbid states related in some distant or obscure way with syphilis but not themselves directly syphilitic; the quaternary stage of syphilis; parasyphilis. See Syphilis : Tabes Dorsalis ; General Paralysis. Metatarsalg'ia.—Pain of a neuralgic nature in the metatarsus; Morton's disease. See Deformities {Metatarsalgia) ; Gout {Diagnosis). Metatarsus.—The part of the foot which lies between the digits and the tarsal bones. See Fractures {Metatarsal Bones). Metclinikoff's Theory.—Thetheory of the destruction of microbes by phagocytes in the blood. See Immunity. Metencephalon. —The hind brain or that portion of the brain in the embryo which develops into the cerebellum and the pons, the name myelencephalon or after-brain being given to the structure from which the medulla oblongata arises. See Embryology. Meteorism.—Distension of the abdo- minal cavity due to gas in the intestine (Gr. fieredypL^m, I lift up). See PERITONEUM, AcuTE Peritonitis {Symptoms, Distension). Meteorologry- Introductory ..... 369 The Barometer ..... 370 Temperature . . . . . .371 Thermometry . . . . .372 Humidity . . . . . .373 Hygrombtry ...... 374 Dew and Frost ..... 375 VOL. VI Fog and Mist 375 Rain and Snow ..... 377 Measurement of Rainfall . 378 Winds ....... 378 Anbmometry ...... 380 Influence op Meteorological Condi- tions ON Health .... 381 High Altitudes..... 381 The meteorological conditions of any locality are comprised under the two heads of the climate and the weather, the former represent- ing the permanent and unvarying, the latter the temporary and changing meteorological phenomena. The climate exhibits an annual cycle with more or less regular curves, on which the weather superposes minor waves, which, modifying the climate, derive their special characters from it; like causes pro- ducing diverse consequences according as the antecedent conditions under which they act, and by which their action is controlled, differ in tlie several instances. Climate is the general resultant of (1) temperature, altitude, and the distribution of land and water, and (2) humidity, rainfall, prevailing winds, evaporation, radiation, etc., modified by soil, aspect, and various local conditions. Weather, on the other hand, indicates transient deviations in one direction or another from the normal climatic conditions observed at any given time of year, and is primarily dependent on the differences of temperature and consequent movements of the air caused by the sun's rays successively impinging at various angles on the earth's surface, and the further disturbances resulting from the different amounts of absorption and radiation of heat, and of evaporation from land and water as each is exposed to the direct rays of the sun or not. The ever-changing phenomena of weather cannot, therefore, be profitably studied apart from, or save in the light of the four great conditions which are the determinant factors of the local climate, viz., temperature, altitude, rainfall, and humidity. Temperature is primarily dependent on latitude, that is, on the mean and seasonal altitude of the sun and the angle at which its rays impinge on the surface of the earth, but is locally and periodically modified by the direction and character of the ocean currents and of the prevailing winds, whether warm or cold. Thus Labrador and Newfoundland are in the same latitudes as the British Isles and France, but while the western shores of the latter are washed by the warm Gulf Stream from the West Indies, the former are chilled by the icy currents flowing southwards from the eastern coasts of Greenland and Baffin's Bay. These general characters, dependent on the presence or absence of the influence of the Gulf Stream, may be 24