ALLIED DRUG HABITS 445 MORPHINOMANIA AND morphia were taken at a dose, and another case in which the daily quantum rose to the almost incredible amount of 462"9 grains of morphia. This, however, at last proved fatal. Dr. Braith- waite 1 cites a case in which 40 grains of morphia were taken hypodermically in twenty-four hours. De Quincey confesses to 8000 minims of lauda- num = 320 grains of opium, as his daily portion at one time of his life. In a case reported by Dr. Stuart of New Zealand, the daily quantity injected for some months was 40 grains of the acetate of morphia.^ A case is reported of a chemist who took 60 grains of hypodermic injection per diem.^ Norman Kerr mentions the case of a female who drank one pint of laudanum daily, and swallowed 3 grains of solid opium at a single dose; also a case in which 20 grains of morphia were injected in a day in divided doses. In my own experience, one case took 12 grains of morphia hypodermically as his regular daily average ; in another the regular dose was 15 grains. This was an American sailor, who from holding a high position had sunk to the level of an ordinary seaman through this vice. He sailed from San Francisco for Liverpool having provided himself with 600 grains of morphia, 2| lbs. of "gum opium," and one poimd of " ymshi" to open if his supply of morphia became exhausted. He calculated that by using only 15 grains a day his stock would last out till he got to "Europe," leaving a little over in case of delay on the journey and until he got a fresh supply on this side. He explained that "ymshi" was the residue left in the pipe after smoking opium; this when rubbed up with water made a paste which he called "tinker"—by the addition of more water he was able to inject this hypodermically, but it was difficult to man- age properly and caused abscesses. "Ymshi" could be obtained plentifully in San Francisco, where there are many smoking dens, and was very cheap. Having mentioned this Yankee, I may say here that he added several new words to my vocabulary, e.y. he invariably spoke and wrote of the syringe as a "hypo- gun," and naturally then the injection Avas a "shot." These large doses are of course arrived at by degrees, tolerance being gradually cultivated. At the same time it is astonishing that the drug can be so quickly got rid of. It is well known that it is rapidly eliminated by the kidneys; it has also been well established by Hitzig* that morphia is secreted by the stomach after hypodermic injection; and it is quite possible that some may, as Diedreich has pointed out, be converted into some substances 1 Med. Temperance Journal, October 1887. 2 Foot, Duh. Journ. Med. Sci., 1889. £. M. J., 1890, vol. i. p. 1470. Berlin, klin. Woch., 1892. No. 49. which have the property of, to some extent, counteracting the toxic eif'ects of the drug. The next question to be considered is diagnosis. This only applies to cases in which the vice is concealed or unsuspected. In such cases it is, as Dr. Foot says, rather a question of detection than diagnosis. Not infrequently the cause of the patient's condition, in the early stages, is not for a moment suspected by his or her closest relatives or friends. It is most studiously concealed from the doctor, and guarded by the most vigorous falsehoods if the question is approached. A lady under Dr. Wilson's care exclaimed: " I call God to witness I neither now have, nor have had since I began the treatment, any preparation of opium or morphia whatever." Within ten minutes afterwards sixty quarter-grain pills of morphia were discovered secreted under her bolster. The points to be noted are :—The face becomes pallid and pasty; anxiety, melancholy, and distrust are depicted in it; patient wishes to be let alone, and so becomes unsociable and irritable; he is restless and shifty, and so loses the power of concentration and application to work. The appetite fails and actual gastric disturbance is freqvient. He sleeps little, and that little is disturbed by unpleasant dreams. The pvilse reveals nothing imless a tracing is taken ; it is said to be normal during the period of satisfaction, but when the patient begins to feel cravings for the drug the pulse curve shows a flat top. If such a train of symptoms arouses suspicion, an examination of the urine ^ may now give some light. If morphia be found in ^ Cf. Wynter Blyth, Poisons: their Effects and Detec- tion, 1884, p. 292, etc. "The method adopted by DragendorfF to extract morphine from . . . urine ... is to shake the liquid (aciditied with a mineral acid) several times with amyl alcohol, which, on removal, separates urea and any bile acids. The liquid thus purified is then alkalised, and shaken up with amyl alcohol, and this amyl alcohol should contain any morphia that was present. On evaporation it may be pure enough to admit of identification, but if not, it may be redissolved and purified on the usual principles." [That is, dissolve in acidulated absolute alcohol, filter, evaporate the filtrate to dryness, dissolve in water, make alkaline, and extract again with amylic alcohol.] Tests (p. 280).—1. Production of Morphine Hydro- chloride.—A solution of iodine dissolved in hydriodic acid gives even in extremely dilute solutions a pre- cipitate. The crystals are dark red in colour, very definite in form ; eitlier free or collected in little radial groups. 2. Iodic Acid Test.—Dissolve in the least possible quantity of water, with the assistance of one or two drops of hydrochloric acid ; mix with a very little starch paste, evaporate in porcelain dish, at a gentle heat to dryness. After cooling add to the dry residue a drop of a solution of 1 part of iodic acid in 15 parts of water : if -^Tj of a grain of morphine be present, a blue colour will be developed. No ptomaine has been obtained which both liberates iodine from iodic acid and gives with iodised hydriodic acid a precipitate of the definite and identical form of morphine hydrochloride. Therefore both reactions above (but not necessarily one above) are proof of the presence of morphia.