MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 344 (3) Cases of primary amenorrhoea due to defects in development are very unsatisfactory to treat. When the uterus is congenitally absent, it is, of course, folly to expect, by any line of treatment, to bring on menstruation. For the masculine type of women with amenor- rhoea, as a rule, nothing can be done. They must make up their minds to pass through life as they are, and bear the burden of their sexual anomaly to the grave. In cases where there is only a small and poorly-developed uterus, with delay in the onset of puberty, tabloids of ovarian tissue, together with general blood tonics (such as iron, arsenic, and manganese), may be administered with some hope of success. Treatment of Secondary Amenorrhcea.— (1) In Pregnancy and Lactation.—The amenor- rhoea of normal pregnancy and lactation calls for no treatment; it is a physiological condi- tion. In every case of absence of the menses, whether in the married or single, the physician should always first satisfy himself that the patient is not pregnant before commencing active treatment. He should also bear in mind that it is possible for a suckling woman to conceive. The amenorrhoea due to ectopic gestation does not itself call for treatment—it is only a symptom of a grave pelvic lesion. But this lesion calls for active treatment most urgently. A surgeon should be called in with- out delay, as in the great majority of cases an operation for the removal of the pregnancy is necessary. (2) After Hysterectomy. — Nothing can be done, even were it desirable, to restore the menstrual function in these cases. (3) In Atrophy of the Utertcs.—Here the lesion is almost invariably a permanent one, and it is futile to attempt by treatment to restore the lost menstrual function. (4) After Oophorectomy. —Here also we cannot expect to recall the catamenia. We can, how- ever, do something to relieve the distressing nervous symptoms that supervene. These symptoms are much more severe after double oophorectomy than after hysterectomy (without sacrifice of the ovaries) and are probably due to the want in the system of the internal secretion of the ovary. Certain it is that we can greatly mitigate them by administering tabloids of ovarian tissue, just as we can remove the symptoms of myxoedema by giving thyroid tabloids. (5) In Disease of the Ovaries. — Here it is the primary disease of the ovary, and not the secondary amenorrhoea, that calls for treatment. (6) In Ancemia.—In amenorrhoea caused by anfemia our first aim should be to cure the primary disease which has impoverished the blood. Thus tuberculosis, malaria, syphilis, and Bright's disease must each be treated secundum artem. If the antemia persists, hsematinics, such as iron, arsenic, and manganese, are indicated. As the primary disease subsides and the quality of the blood improves, the menstrual functions will return. Let us now consider with somewhat more detail the treatment of amenorrhoea due to chlorosis — the most common cause of the condition and the one most amenable to treat- ment. This consists essentially in the ad- ministration of large doses of iron, in a form easily assimilated and least likely to upset the digestion. The best preparation of iron is undoubtedly ferrous carbonate (in the familiar form of Blaud's pill). The citrate of iron and ammonia, and the various chalybeate waters are also valuable. In nearly all cases there is obstinate constipation, and it will be found that unless this be overcome, the iron is of little use. It is necessary, therefore, to regulate the bowels with saline aperients (such as sulphate of magnesia), aloes, or cascara. A time-honoured and most efficacious mixture is that containing sulphate of iron, sulphate of magnesia, dilute sulphuric acid, glycerine, and peppermint water. Inferior to iron, but often usefully given in combination with it are arsenic and manganese, whilst quinine, nux vomica, and calumba are useful adjuvants. The digestion must be attended to, and if there be chronic gastric catarrh this should be remedied (before com- mencing the course of iron) by rhubarb and soda, etc. The diet must be regulated. The patient must avoid strong tea, and all highly- spiced and indigestible dishes. An abundance of wholesome blood-forming food (milk, eggs, red meat, and beef-juice) should be given. Alcohol is not usually necessary, but in some cases the light red wines, such as Burgundy, seem to hasten recovery. In the case of the girl who is overtaxing her brain (as in schools) or her body (as in domestic service and factories), it is important to give her a complete rest or change of occupation. If her strength permit she should take judicious exercise, short of fatigue, in the open air and sunshine. If there be any suspicion of tight lacing, this must be prohibited, and the girl taught how to dress rationally. (7) Fi'om Nervous Disturbances.—As a rule, amenorrhoea from nervous causes is only temporary, and the periods return when the cause is removed. In cases of pseudo-cyesis the best method of restoring the menstrual flow is a correct diagnosis. Convince the patient that she is not pregnant and the uterus will soon resume its functions. When due to mere change of climate, the amenorrhoea will cease when the patient has become acclimatised to her new surroundings or when she returns to her old home. Exposure to cold and wet may stop the period for one month, but rarely longer. A violent nervous shock, on the other hand.