LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS 89 eyelids, ears, lips (including the red portion), and the fingers and toes (flexor surfaces). Kaposi also states that " in many cases " the mucous membrane of the gums, cheeks, and tongue is affected by a similar change ; but this is not often observed in this country. German authorities mainly follow Kaposi in describing only two forms of the disease—the discoid and the disseminate; but in Great Britain a greater number of distinct varieties occur. Description.—The various names all suggest one or other feature of some form of the disease. Some are scaly (the sebaceous type); others are erythematous; while a third class is associated with very marked dilatation of the capillaries, and is known as the telangiectic form. While undoubtedly the disease usually terminates in a scar, more marked in some cases than in others, Kaposi rightly points out that in some cases the disease leaves no trace of its presence. In the sebaceous type of the disease (which is practically the only form found in the scalp) the first sign is a little redness surrounding a minute scale, which at first sight very closely resembles that of seborrhoea. It is, however, more closely adherent to the scalp, and when it is forcibly removed it is found to have been anchored by a root-like projection from its under surface. When the scale has reached a more considerable size its colour may be noted to be less yellow and more greyish in appearance than the seborrhoeic one, while the numerous stalactite-like processes hanging from its under surface have a very characteristic appearance. When examination was purely clinical, it was a very natural assumption that the openings from which these were drawn were the mouths of sebaceous glands; but histological examination has shown that the assumption was incorrect, that many of them are mechanical depressions independent of any glandular structure. As the disease progresses (in the scalp) the centre sinks in, pales, the hairs disappear, and a patch of permanent alopecia results. The border is elevated, often of a bluish-red colour, and ii-regularly gyrate in form. The disease is perhaps most often in this situation confined to one considerable spot, but not infrequently four or five lesser ones are observed. On the face, where this form of the disease frequently occurs, the course followed is very similar, though as a general rule the scarring is not so marked, probably owing to the fact that the loss of the hair exaggerates the cicatricial appearance. On the ears, where a combination of the erythematous and sebaceous form is the rule, scarring is usually well marked, and there is often a considerable loss of substance. The erythematous type of the disease, that from which Biett evidently took his description and name, occurs on the face and hands. It commences as a raised red spot, which slowly enlarges and forms a ringed patch, the centre sinking in and becoming atrophic, thus forming a more or less marked scar. The raised border is reddish-brown in colour, only exceptionally showing the violaceous tinge usual on the scalp, and it is frequently marked (stippled) with a number of greyish-white dots, which are found on histological examination to be the minute representatives of the root-like processes of the scaly form. The duration of each individual spot varies greatly: some disappear in a week, leaving hardly any trace of their presence ; others last for months, and leave a very distinct parchment-like scar. In rare cases the exuda- tion, which is always present in the skin, makes its way to the surface, and vesicles, bullae, or even hpemorrhages may be observed. On the hands the appearances so closely re- semble those of the common chilblain that it is often impossible to decide as to the nature of a case which occurs for the first time at the chilblain period of the year. Only the slight atrophic scarring and the persistence of the disease after the cold weather has disappeared enable a distinction to be made. The telangiectic form which Kaposi does not refer to has been several times noted in this country. It occurs on the face, and is usually symmetrical. Little is evident but an advancing wave of dilated capillaries, leaving in its trail a smooth white scar. There is no scaling and comparatively little swelling of the tissues; indeed, it is practically only the scar which is left which shows its relationship to the other forms of the disease. Kaposi's lupus erythematosus disseminatus, extreme examples of which are fortunately very rare in this country, may be looked on as an acute eruption of the erythematous type. Numbers of spots appear on every part of the surface : some quickly disappear; others last for months, remaining, however, of their original form ; the increase is in number, and not in the size of the spots. The outbreak sometimes occurs without marked symptoms, but is some- times accompanied by high fever and pains, or even effusion in the joints, swelling of the glands, headache, etc. In some cases there is an erysipeloid swelling of the face; a typhoid condition develops, there is high temperature and coma, and half of the cases observed have terminated fatally. Less marked outbreaks of this kind are not infrequent in the course of other varieties of the disease. Thus a patient who has been under observation for some time with one typical patch of the sebaceous form of the disease will one day present himself with a fresh crop of erythe- matous spots, which were it not for the history of the case it would be difficult to recognise as lupus erythematosus. The majority of the spots are evanescent and leave no trace of their