MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 210 syphilis and lactation) which defies local treat- ment should be looked upon with suspicion. The nipple should be excised and subjected to microscopic examination, and if the changes above described are discovered the whole breast should be sacrificed. Diseases of the Male Breast Nearly all the aff'ections that occur in the female breast have also been met with in the male breast, in which, however, they are, with few exceptions, decidedly rare. FlO. 31.—Horizontal section through the nipple in an early stage of Paget's disease. Of the two mammillary ducts the upper ia normal while the lower is almost filled by large malignant epithelial cells. Hypertrophy of the male breast {gynoeco- mastia) diff'ers from hypertrophy of the mamma in the female in that the enlargement ceases spontaneously, and rarely, if ever, attains a size greater than the normal female breast. Unlike hypertrophy in the female the condition is frequently unilateral. The enlargement, which generally begins about the time of puberty, is due mainly to an overgrowth of the fibrous stroma, rarely to an increase in the parenchyma. It is in the latter class of case that the organ has been found capable of secreting milk when an infant is applied to it. In men towards the decline of sexual life the an increase in the fibro-fatty tissue. In many instances gynfecomastia is associated with con- genital malformations of the sexual organs; it has been observed to follow removal of the testicles especially about the period of their greatest functional activity, and from their complete destruction or atrophy from injury or disease. Should the patient desire to be rid of the deformity, the nipple may be preserved by making a curved incision at the lower margin of the breast, and then dissecting up the in- teguments from its anterior sur- face until its upper border is reached, when the organ is rapidly dissected away from the pectoral muscle. Infantile mas- titis and the mas- titis of adolescence occur with equal frequency in both sexes. Acute sup- purative mastitis, which is rare in the adult male, is usually the result of an injury. Dif- fuse chronic inter- stitial mastitis is occasionally met with, producing a general fibroid en- largement of the corpus mammse, almost invariably one breast only being affected. Some, at any rate, of these cases are tertiary syph- ilitic affections, which slowly sub- side under a course of iodide of potas- sium combined with the local inunction of a mercurial ointment. Such breasts are not in- frequently removed on the supposition that the disease is malignant. On section the corpus mammte is seen to be made up of a compact mass of tough, glistening, white fibrous tissue, dotted here and there with sago-like points which the microscope shows to be the ducts of the parenchyma. Clinically, the condition is at once distinguished from carcinoma by its slow progress, by its uniform consistence and lack of hardness, by the absence of skin involve- ment, and by the free mobility of the breast upon the pectoral muscle. Tubercle of the breasts occasionally become enlarged, due to male breast is very rare. Of the thirty-seven