LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 52 supposed—affords an immediately bad outlook. Apart from genito-urinary tuberculosis, the kidneys may become affected by inflammation and waxy disease, the prognosis of which is considered elsewhere. The combination of diabetes and pulmonary tuberculosis is of bad omen. A good many diabetics end their days thus. The constitution and character of the patient and the conditio7is under vjhich he lives are of much significance. The prognosis is governed a good deal by the stuff he seems made of. There is the firm, fibrous patient who resists well, in contrast with the soft, flabby, flaccid patient who resists badly. The difference is doubtless an expression of difference in cir- culatory, nervous, and other functions. It is convenient to emphasise it at this point. In this connection family history is of im- port. It is important not only to know if other members of the family have been affected, but, even more so, how they withstood the disease—whether they went down quickly or resisted well, and whether they lived under the same conditions as the patient. The character of the patient and even his degree of intelligence are of moment. Timidity, distrust of methods, impatience, carelessness, self-in- dulgence in spite of restriction or prohibition, and the like, may banefully prejudice the chances of recovery. The patient's age has a bearing on the issue. Other things being equal, the progress of the disease is more rapid in young subjects. On the other hand it is to be borne in mind that, under a wise regime, retraction and cicatrisation may be obtained more quickly in a young, yielding chest than where the thoracic wall has become more rigid. Sex has less significance, apart from the question of pregnancy and lacta- tion. It has been thought that the course is always more rapid in the female subject. This is extremely doubtful. The apparently greater rapidity is probably due to the greater tendency to adopt protective, indoor treatment from the first. Under similar conditions there is no important difference determinable. Pregnancy and lactation exert a most pre- judicial influence. When pregnancy occurs in an affected subject it sometimes appears to exert a conservative and beneficial influence. Throughout the pregnancy, indeed, the tuber- culous process may become quiescent. During the puerperium and thereafter there is a marked tendency to exacerbation, and the patient frequently goes down-hill rapidly. Even if one pregnancy and puerperium be passed through safely under those conditions, there is imminent danger in respect of a second. Should the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis marry ?—The question naturally raises itself at this point. The answer is that such marriage should not obtain the physician's sanction unless, under definite observation, the process has been perfectly quiescent for a year at least. Short of this, it should be forbidden, as gravely prejudicing the interests of both contracting parties, who should have the risks placed plainly before them. When feasible, the period of trial may be wisely extended beyond one year. When the process is active or has become recently active, the physician's sanction ought not to be granted. From this point of view the various pleas commonly advanced are invalid in view of the major issues. The pecuniary circumstances of the patient are of moment, including as they do the possibility (or otherwise) of taking right and sufiicient means to ensure a cure, the possibility of taking life and business luore easily, and the possibility of avoiding insanitary conditions of residence, occupation, and the like, which militate greatly against the individual. Of immediately evil omen may be named the following: advent of intense breathlessness, as from pneumothorax or grave circulatory impedi- ment ; failing, small, rapid pulse; oedema of extremities; intractable diarrhoea; persistent aphthous stomatitis (oidium albicans) and a violent, unrestrainable hfemorrhage, as from an aneurysmal dilatation within the lungs. The occurrence of a very pronounced Ehrlich's diazo reaction has been also accounted bad. Treatment I. Prophylactic Intelligent prevention of pulmonary tuber- culosis must rest on ascertained facts, and it would be well if these were more generally known, so that they might be acted on. The causa sine qua non is the tubercle bacillus. Without the tubercle bacillus there can be no tuberculosis. The bacillus must therefore be destroyed or rendered harmless. The characters and life-history of the bacillus indicate that its destruction or, at least, the limitation of its growth is possible. The bacillus is a parasite which does not easily flourish outside a suitable host. Ordinarily occui-ring conditions of sun- light and fresh air are inimical to its life. Tuberculosis is propagated chiefly by the carriage of the tubercle bacillus from an affected to an unaffected individual through the secretions and excretions of the former. So far as pulmonai-y tuberculosis is concerned, the bacillus-containing expectoration is especially of sigiiificance. This is inhaled. The conveyance of infection directly by surface lesion or even by ingestion {e.g. of milk) is of less moment. The healthy cells and tissues of the respiratory apparatus have a certain power of resistance to the inroads of the bacillus. Infection is more likely to occur when the individual is out of condition from any cause either temporary, as after an illness (measles, influenza), or more or less permanent, as from