80 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—VASCULAR DISORDERS or come on slowly. The chronic cases most often accompany any heart or other lesion causing much backward pressure, such as bron- chitis, etc. It may also occur with any lung inflammation, varying much in degree in the different cases. A degree of pulmonary oedema is a frequent sign of the approach of death in asthenic subjects, but the well-known death rattle is often limited to the trachea and bronchi, and need not signify a widespread oedema of the lungs. It is certainly most likely to appear where failure of the left heart is the direct cause of death; and in diseases of the nervous system, and especially in the subjects of alcohol- ism, passive or chronic oedema is of common occurrence. Lastly, after removing by paracentesis a large pleural effusion, albuminous expectoration some- times occurs. It depends almost always on ex- cessive amounts removed, and it may, when it occurs, terminate fatally. Pathological Anatomy.—In acute oedema the lung is heavy, and on pressure an enormous amount of watery fluid, sometimes blood-stained, can be squeezed out from the cut surface. The fluid may be frothy, or there may be little air left except in the bronchi; and the lung, before the fluid is removed, generally sinks in water. The amount of blood in the vessels varies, and the lung is sometimes extremely pale. It is elastic on pressure, and the mark of the com- pressing finger is speedily effaced. The lung tears rapidly. The exudation is not limited to air vesicles, but is also interstitial in position. In chronic oedema the elasticity is much reduced, and the pit left by the finger remains. The bases of the lung and the lower lobes are most frequently affected. Clinical Features.—In an ac^ite and extensive oedema, dyspnoea rapidly develops, the face becomes pale and cyanosed, and the veins in the neck are distended, while cold sweat appears on the face and body. Breathing soon becomes increasingly rapid and painful. On inspection the chest wall appears unduly distended, and the extraordinary muscles of inspiration are brought into play. The percussion note is increasingly dull over the affected area of lung, especially over the lower part of the chest; while above, a distinct tympanitic note is generally obtained, indicating relaxation of pulmonary septa. The breath sounds are masked by fine, and later, by coarse rales, and are not infrequently feebly bronchial in type, while the vocal resonance is often somewhat diminished. The sputum which the patient constantly coughs up is copioxis, watery, or somewhat frothy, and not infrequently blood- stained, and contains a varying number of red blood corpuscles, a few leucocytes, and a large amount of mucin. If the oedema increases, the lower interspaces become indrawn, the diaphragm paralysed, and the patient passes into a state of stupor or delirium; and the heart, which has up to this time been acting fairly strongly, becomes weak, irregular, and rapid, and death ensues sometimes in compara- tively few hours. The clinical picture of chronic oedema is a more protracted one, but the physical signs closely correspond. There is the same dyspnoea, with marked orthopnoea, and the feeling of chest constriction, if not so agonising, is merely dissimilar as regards degree. One peculiar type of oedema requires brief reference, and that is a periodic form of acute oedema. It occurs in chronic Bright's disease, in anterio-sclerosis, and sometimes in aortic disease, and Parisot and Spillman have de- scribed its appearance in aneurysm of the heart. Where one of the predisposing conditions exists, a trivial exciting cause accounts for the onset of the oedema, such as excessive physical exer- tion, a heavy meal, a strong cigar, or it may in some cases occur whenever the unfortunate patient assumes the recumbent posture. The symptoms come on rapidly, but often are arrested, and the sufferer recovers, although eventually an attack may prove fatal. The diagnosis is rarely difficult, the dyspnoea with choking sensations and the increasing number of moist sounds heard on ausculting the lungs are alone sufficient. More skill is often required for recognising the cause of the condition than for deciding upon its existence. The treatment of the acute form consists in an attempt at removing or neutralising the agent at work, by administering purgatives, diuretics and diaphoretics, and by counter-irritants, and attention should be directed at once to the etiological factor if discoverable. Muscarin can be antagonised by atropin, and in the oedema of Bright's disease the skin and bowels, and sometimes even the kidneys, may be vigorously stimulated with beneficial results. It is very doubtful whether vaso-motor stimulants are of any real value in counteracting the supposed vaso-motor paralysis, although Traube recom- mends acetate of lead in ^ to 1 grain doses given frequently. In the oedema of backward pressure relief should be at once afforded by the direct with- drawal of blood from a vein, by removing the venous congestion by purgation, diuresis, and sometimes diaphoresis, and, lastly, by trying to regulate the heart by the administration of digitalis, caffein, or other cardiac tonic. Where hydrothorax exists, paracentesis and the re- moval of a part of the effusion should not be too long delayed. Counter-irritation is of great value in all cases where the skin can with safety be stimu- lated, and mustard poultices or the ordinary mustard leaf, iodine, fly-blisters, and in some cases a hot bath, to which 1 or 2 lbs. of mus-