553 NEPHRITIS The wet pack may be used either hot or cold ; the latter is generally preferred. In applying the pack, the patient should be completely undressed, or should only wear a thin cotton covering, and wet sheets should be wrapped round him and then quickly covered with suc- cessive layers of dry blankets. Care should be taken to leave no portion of the damp sheet projecting beyond the blankets. Copious per- spiration usually ensues after twenty minutes or half an hour, and this diaphoresis will often continue after the removal of the pack, if the patient is quickly dried with warm towels and again enveloped in warm blankets. Perspira- tion may be further favoured during the wet pack by giving draughts of water from time to time. The first application of the wet pack some- times fails, and may indeed produce increased headache; while a second application repeated twelve or twenty-four hours later, is often suc- cessful. When diaphoresis is slow, it may be favoured or initiated by small doses of pilo- carpine nitrate. This drug is, however, rarely required in acute nephritis. As the dropsy diminishes and the urine in- creases in quantity and becomes less smoky, alkaline diuretics may be employed, such as potassium or sodium acetate, or citrate. The late Sir William Roberts recommended that these drugs should be given from the com- mencement of the attack, and he maintained that, by rendering the urine alkaline it was possible to prevent the coagulation of blood or albumin within the tubules, which, under ordinary conditions, is favoured by the highly acid character of the urine. Alkaline diuretics may be employed with small doses of digitalis, especially if the heart's action is unduly rapid. Caffeine has been recommended instead of digitalis, and has the advantage of being an efficient diuretic and of causing less digestive disturbance. Headache, restlessness, and sleeplessness may be relieved by purgatives, diuretics, and dia- phoretics, but occasionally the administration of bromides, chloral, or other sedatives is required. Bromides and chloral are extremely serviceable when the pulse is of good quality. Morphine and opium are contraindicated, since they favour dangerous suppression and uraemic symptoms. Hyoscine hydrobromide and hyoscyamine sul- phate are free from these dangers, and can be given subcutaneously in doses of grain to grain. The sleep they induce may occasion- ally be interrupted by dreams, but it is refresh- ing, and it diminishes the restlessness of the ensuing day. Persistent vomiting, if it occurs early, may be treated with diluted hydrocyanic acid and preparations of bismuth; but these are com- paratively useless when the symptom is due to uraemia, and reliance must then be placed upon diaphoretics and hydragogue purgatives. During convalescence persistent albuminuria may call for special attention. Persalts of iron have been given with digitalis and strophanthus to diminish the loss of albumin; but iron salts must be used with discretion, since the daily loss is sometimes increased while they are taken. Various astringents have been employed, such as tannic acid and gallic acid, and occasionally I have found some benefit from ergot. Per- sistent albuminuria is, however, much more amenable to hygienic than to medicinal treat- ment, and it may often be reduced by a rever- sion to milk diet, by the avoidance of cold and of muscular and mental strain. During con- valescence the greatest watchfulness and care are required, since an early resumption of solid diet may be followed by an increase of albumi- nuria, and possibly by a return of hsematuria and dropsy. Many complications, such as pleurisy, em- pyema, pneumonia, bronchitis, and congestion of the lungs, are to be treated on general principles, but acute enlargement of the ventricle is an indication for digitalis or strophanthus. Peri- carditis necessitates leeches and poultices, but the renal changes contraindicate the internal administration of opium. During convalescence anaemia calls for the use of mild preparations of iron. The astringent preparations should in general be avoided, since they increase the albumin and may also favour constipation. (Edema of the larynx may re- quire intubation or tracheotomy. It is, how- ever, often associated with oedema of the bronchi and of the lungs, which can only be relieved by measures employed for dropsical affections in other parts. Scarlatiiial Nephritis. — The treatment of scarlatinal nephritis differs but little from that of the foregoing disease. There is reason to believe that the onset is favoured by constipa- tion, and it is therefore desirable, during con- valescence from scarlet fever, to administer some mild laxative. The character of the diet, too, has some influence, and with children from three to six years old it is advisable to confine the diet mainly to milk during the time of desquamation, and to keep the patient in bed. The rise of temperature to 101° or 102°, which forms the immediate prelude to scarlatinal neph- ritis, has been treated beneficially with repeated small doses of tincture of aconite. Very often, however, this initial rise of temperature may escape observation, and the disease, for practical purposes, assumes the form of acute nephritis, in which there is a great tendency to the develop- ment of symptoms of uraemia. The treatment of dropsy and of uraemic symptoms does not differ from that already described. When the immediate urgency of the symptoms has passed away, benefit will often result from the use of perchloride of iron. This must be employed tentatively, and its administration