LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 107 found to account for many cases of sudden death in slight diphtheria, where there was no other evident cause of death and where the diphtheria did not seem likely to be so soon fatal. The children who are the subjects of this con- dition are usually anxious-looking and pasty- faced ; they are slightly ansemic, often rickety, have a special tendency to spasm of the glottis, have usually enlarged tonsils and adenoids, and enlargement of the glands associated with these. The thyroid may be slightly enlarged, and the spleen is often palpable ; while enlarged mesenteric glands may be felt, and dulness over the sternum may indicate enlargement of the mediastinal glands. It is rather unusual to have much enlargement of the superficial cervical, axillary, or inguinal glands. But little is known as to the condition of the blood, but in some case a persistent lymphocytosis is found, greater in amount than it shovild have been at the person's age. When the condition occurs in older persons they are usually undergrown and infantile in appearance, and sexual development is late or imperfect. Post-mortem. — Apart from what is stated above, the striking feature in most cases is the enlargement of all the lymphoid tissue in the wall of the alimentary canal, and of all the glands associated with it and its ofF-shoots. Thus the bronchial and mediastinal glands are enlarged, and the thymus persistent and large also. The increase in size in the spleen is usually due largely to increase in size in the Malpighian bodies. The yellow marrow is re- placed by red marrow, but this is possibly due to the chronic anfemia which is present. We have no knowledge of the ultimate cause of the condition. As to treatment, for the reason already given, practically nothing can be said. If the condition is found to be due to rickets, that of course suggests both prevention and treatment; and children presenting the clinical appearances detailed above should obviously be specially protected from the infectious fevers, and from diphtheria in particular. " Thymus-Tod."—The cases described under this name are probably to be regarded as due to a form of lymphatism in which the enlarge- ment of the thymus, common in that disease, is specially prominent, and causes death either by direct pressure on the trachea, by pressure on the vagus so as to cause spasm of the glottis, or, more doubtfully, by pressure on the great vessels or on the heart itself. Kohn, however, has recently reported a case where a very large thymus pressed directly upon the aorta. The heart was dilated and hypertrophied, and the aorta much dilated up to the point where the thymus pressed upon it. Death, when its occurrence has been watched in these cases (it is not uncommon to find the children dead in bed), is brought about not usually by cardiac paralysis, the typical way in lymphatism, but by the sudden onset of inspiratory dyspnoja, with stridor, and the rapid development of cyanosis. Post-mortem, the enlargement of the thymus is the only cause for this which can be found, and while it is often associated with a general lymphatism, this is not always the case, or at least the lymphatism is proportion- ally less well marked than the thymus enlarge- ment. Here, as the fatal issue is not quite so sudden, rather more is to be hoped from treat- ment. A certain nimiber of cases have been saved by tracheotomy and the passage of a long tube down the trachea, and thereafter by pulling up the large thymus and stitching it to the cervical fascia. Another variety of cases has been described in adolescents, where deep coma comes on suddenly, and in twelve to eighteen hours ends in death. Convulsions, glottic spasm, and vomiting may occur. After death, enlargement of the thymus and hypoplasia of the whole of the rest of the lymphatic apparatus and of the vascular system was found, with cerebral ojdema, which was the immediate cause of death. The relationship between the different factors is not very clear in these cases. Lymphodermia perniciosa.—This is a very rare condition, first described by Kaposi, and consists in the appearance of a scaly, weeping, and intensely itchy eczema, diffuse or localised, which is followed by a diffuse doughy swelling of the affected parts of the skin, and then by the appearance of cutaneous and subcutaneous nodules which sometimes ulcerate, and may cause great disfigurement. The lymph-glands and spleen become enlarged, the general health sufters greatly, leucocythsemia (according to Kaposi) sets in, and the patient dies in the long run. The nodules are found mainly in the subcutaneous tissue, but there is a considerable secondary infiltration of the corium. The nodules and infiltrations consist of a delicate stroma packed with leucocytes, which are mainly lymphocytes apparently. Much discussion as to the real nature of the disease has taken place. The general opinion is that the condition is a variety of mycosis fungoides, and that the main difference from the ordinary form of that disease lies in the unusual depth at which the nodules and infiltra- tions, which are identical in structure with those of mycosis, are found in the skin. The great increase in the leucocytes of the blood is more probably a leucocytosis similar to that found in mycosis fungoides and sarcomatosis cutis than a true leucocythfemia, and the clinical course of the two conditions is similar. The prognosis is always bad; the treatment must be symptomatic. Lymphatic Circulation of the Central Nervous System.—Physiology and Pathology.—