MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 463 It is necessary to make quite sure that the deformity is completely reduced and that the " bite " of the mouth is correct. Several pieces of thin, soft, iron wire are then passed between the teeth and made to surround them. Numerous inter-dental splints have been devised, but for the surgeon none of them are so satisfactory as the one described. Some splints have been devised partly internal and partly external; they do not merit our attention. (3) Ligature of Teeth.—The fragments are fixed together by tying either silk or wire round the teeth on each side of the fracture. This method has two grave objections : one, that the mobility of the fracture is by no means satisfactorily controlled; the other, that the teeth round which the ligature is passed may become loose and the adjacent gum may become inflamed. (4) Wiring of Fragments.—The best method is that described by Thomas of Liverpool. It consists in drilling the fragments below the tooth sockets, and then passing a piece of stout copper wire through the drilled holes and bringing the fragments together by coiling the copper wire upon a special "key" made for the purpose. During the treatment the wire can be tightened from time to time. Non-united Fbacture of the Lower Jaw This is a very unusual condition. Union is often delayed by unusual mobility or by the presence of a tooth between the fragments, but sooner or later union takes place as soon as these antagonistic agents are removed. Again, union by fibrous tissue and the formation of a false joint is a very rare occurrence. The treat- ment of this condition differs in no respect from that employed in the treatment of ununited fractures generally. Inflammatory Disease of the Jaws and ITS Results Periostitis, Abscess, and Necrosis.—One of the subjects that has led to as much difference of opinion in the past as any in the domain of surgery is the question whether suppurative inflammation of the lower jaw originates in the bone itself or in its periosteum, or whether the trouble always commences in a decayed tooth or its alveolar dental periosteum, and that the main structure of the jaw is infected from this local site. There seems no reason to doubt that acute infective osteo-myelitis or periostitis, which may occur in almost any bone during childhood or adolescence, may occur also in the lower jaw. This, however, is very rarely met. Many surgeons used to maintain that certain children were very prone to a form of suppura- tive osteo-myelitis and periostitis which often led to loss of the teeth and necrosis of the whole or part of the jaws, especially the man- dible. Inasmuch as the children specially affected with this disease presented tuberculous lesions of various kinds, it was termed scrofu- lous osteo-myelitis. Further, it was stated that in the acute specific diseases of childhood, and in typhoid and typhus fever, a suppurative osteo-myelitis could originate by a specific poison itself lodging in the structures of the jaws. This same theory was held regarding inflammation following the inhalation of phos- phorus fumes and following the taking of mercury as a drug. It is now practically established that in all these cases the general disease is only a pre- disposing cause which weakens the resistance of the gingival mucous membrane or of the teeth, so that ordinary suppurative organisms more readily gain access, and therefore the true cause of all these suppurative inflammations is a local infection by some pyogenic organism present in the mouth. A short consideration of the anatomical re- lations of the teeth and jaws shows us how intimate and important is the relationship between them. Between each tooth and the jaw, lining the tooth socket, is a layer of tissue, frequently termed alveolar or alveolo-dental periosteum. It is in this periosteum, situated between the teeth and the lower law, that the large majority of inflammatory affections of the jaw commence. According to Miller of Berlin, many facts favour the supposition that a con- siderable number of pathogenic micro-organisms may thrive in the juices of the mouth without showing any difference from the common parasites of the oral cavity so long as the mucous mem- brane remains intact. If, however, the soft tissues have been wounded, as in extraction, or if the resistance of the mucous membrane has become impaired, these organisms may gain a point of entrance, and thus become able to manifest their special actions. The severe injuries of the soft tissues of the bone caused by difficult extractions, as well as the open wound left by every extraction, furnish a convenient point of entrance for bacteria. Whoever has examined an unclean mouth, with its broken-down teeth, inflamed gums, thick smeary deposits with which some of the teeth are wholly covered, will not wonder that inflammation, suppuration, necrosis, or even pysemia may follow upon operations in the mouth, and where the typical pyogenic micro-organisms, such as the staphylo- coccus aureus, etc., are present, we must expect severe suppurative inflammation and formation of abscesses. It is well recognised that the mucous membrane of the mouth may, under certain conditions, become less resistent to the influence of germs, and this may be brought about by mechanical, chemical, or thermal conditions, local or general, so that the nature of the tissues is so changed that a suitable nidus for the development of certain microbes is formed. In some cases the alveolar