FORENSIC 267 MEDICINE, ances presented by the genital organs and uterus, resulting from the natural expulsion of a foetus, especially in the later months, for evidence of criminal violence. Injuries caiised by abortionists are generally situated near the cervix or in the uterine cavity, and consist of punctures or longitudinal lacerations, the ap- pearance of which is highly suggestive, and differ from the tears in the cervix or superficial abrasion and lacerations of the vaginal wall, which frequently i-esult during ordinary de- livery. Spontaneous ruptures of the uterus are usually situated in the lower segment and run transversely, whereas ruptures due to direct violence are generally longitudinal. Infanticide.—The term infanticide is used to denote the murder of an infant. The crime is usually perpetrated at, or shortly after, birth. In order to constitute the crime it is necessary that the child shall have been born alive—that is to say, not merely that it shall have breathed, and therefore lived, but that it lived and enjoyed a separate existence, apart from the mother. An infant may give evidence of life, i.e. breathe, while in the maternal passages, but such an infant is not " born alive " in the legal sense, and killing it is not murder, provided it succumbs before it is fully born. To prove a charge of infanticide it is essential, therefore, not only that there shall be evidence that a child has lived, but also that it was "born alive." The chances of an infant coming into the world " still born," or of succumbing im- mediately after birth from a variety of natural causes, are so great, and therefore of an inno- cent woman being accused of infanticide, that the Crown in all charges of infanticide assumes that the child is dead born in every case until the contrary is proved, and undertakes the onus of proving that it enjoyed a separate existence. The post-mortem examination of the body of an infant is required to determine—(1) Its maturity; (2) Has it breathed, and therefore lived'? (3) Was it born alive? (4) What was the cause of death'? (5) How long has it been dead 1 Owing to the difficulties often experienced in giving a definite answer to these questions, and also, no doubt, owing to the fact that infanti- cide frequently occurs under circumstances, as regards the mother, which render conviction on a minor charge adequate vindication of the ends of justice, the indictment generally in- cludes an alternative charge of concealment of birth in England, or concealment of iwegnancy in Scotland, for which the punishment is im- prisonment for a term not exceeding two years. The crime of concealment of birth consists in the secret disposition of the body of a child, whether it died before or after birth, and concealment of its birth. Concealment of pregnancy consists in conceal- ment by a woman of the fact of her having been pregnant in the event of the child dying or dis- appearing. It is not necessary that the body be found, or that there be proof of its death ; on the other hand, it is sufficient for the woman to indicate the fact of her pregnancy to any person, directly or even indirectly, in order to relieve her from the charge. In the case of any woman accused of infanti- cide, it will be necessary to prove that she has been recently delivered of a child at a time corresponding to that which has presumably elapsed since the birth of the infant. In the post-mortem examination of the body of an infant, after noting the length and weight, state of the umbilical cord, presence of a caput succedaneum, marks of injury, and other ex- ternal appearances, we must proceed to deter- mine its maturity, because the more immature an infant is the less chance there will have been, coeteris paribus, of its having survived its birth ; or, if born alive, the greater is the probability of its having succumbed subsequently from natural causes. As a rule, charges of infanticide arise in connection with infants born after the seventh month, and the majority are mature, full-time children. The following data will assist the examiner:— At ^th Month.—Length, 12-15 inches ; weight, 2-4 lbs.; hair appearing on scalp; pupillary membrane disappearing; finger-nails do not reach to end of fingers; testicles at abdominal ring; vernix caseosa and lanugo present on the skin. %th Month.—Length, 15-17 inches ; weight, 4-5 lbs.; pupillary membrane absent; nails reach to end of fingers; testicles in inguinal canal or upper part of the scrotum ; valvulse conniventes in small intestine. ^thMonth—Signs of Mat%Lrity.—Length, 18-21 inches; weight, 5-8 lbs.; hair thick on scalp and about an inch long; nails project beyond tips of fingers; testicles in scrotum. In the lower end of the femur there is a well-marked node of ossification, about \ of an inch in diameter. The existence or absence of this node of ossification must always be determined, and the procedure, after reflecting the soft parts sur- rounding the lower end of the femur, is to carefully shave off transverse slices of the cartilaginous epiphysis, until a red spot of gritty consistence makes its appearance in the centre. This is the ossific node, and its greatest diameter should be exposed. Having completed the external examination of the body, the next step is to determine the question. Has the child breathed.? and evidence of respiration is to be sought for, firstly, in the lungs ("hydrostatic test"), and, secondly, in the stomach ("the stomach air test"). On removal of the sternum, the picture which is presented will in itself be strongly suggestive either of respiration having occurred, or the