NECK, REGION OF 528 Incision and drainage is usually sufficient to cure them. If this fails, they should be excised. Cysts and Cystic Tumours.—The neck is a favourite site for these swellings, which may be either congenital or acquired. The congenital will be referred to first. Hygroma or Multilocular Cystic Tumour of the Neck.-—This is often of large size, and consists of a series of lymphatic spaces embedded in connective tissue. These spaces are lined by endothelium, and contain a thin serous fluid and some cholesterin crystals. The outline of the tumour, which is soft and elastic to the touch, is most irregular. It possesses no capsule, and as it enlarges it usually sends processes deeply into the neck, which have been known to follow the deep fascia into the thorax or axilla. Besides causing great deformity, the tvimour may seriously press on the trachea and other structures. Complete excision should be per- formed if possible ; failing that, a partial excision has occasionally been successful in bringing about an arrest of growth. Dermoid cysts, lined by squamous epithelium, and containing sebaceous material and some- times hair, are found in two places. The most common site is under the chin in the middle line between the genio-hyoglossus and mylo- hyoid muscles. Their removal, unless they are very small, is best done through a median incision in the neck, and not through the mouth. Less frequently dermoids are found at the side of the neck at a position corresponding to one of the branchial clefts of the embryo. They are here more or less adherent to the great vessels. This must be borne in mind in excising them. Brajichial cysts and thyroglossal cysts are two other rare cysts which require mention. Branchial cysts result from incomplete closure of the branchial clefts, most commonly of the third (near the hyoid bone). They are lined generally with squamous epithelium, and contain either a glairy or sebaceous fluid. Thyroglossal cysts occur in the middle line and develop in connection with the remnants of the thyroglossal duct or tract of His. This tract extends from the foramen caecum in the tongue to the isthmus of the thyroid, descending behind the hyoid bone and in front of the larynx. The cyst in question represents the lower portion, and is to be found, therefore, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid gland. It resembles the latter organ both in structure and contents, and it moves with deglutition. In these and in branchial cysts the treatment is the same, namely, excision. Of acquired cysts, perhaps the most important is the unilocular serous cyst or hydrocele of the neck. This is a large, smooth, thin - walled, tense, and sometimes translucent cyst. A point of diagnostic importance is that it is almost invariably posterior to the sterno-mastoid. Its exact origin has not been definitely settled. It should be dissected out. Blood cysts ocasionally occur, and are due either to the dilatation of a vein or to extravasa- tion of blood into a pre-existing cyst. In aneurysms, in addition to the ordinary signs (see vol. i. pp. 167 and 181), the special symptoms which may arise from pressure upon structures in the neck may be looked for. Thus, in corotid aneurysm, stridor from pressure on the trachea or recurrent laryngeal nerve, dysphagia from pressure on the oesophagus, dilatation or contraction of one pupil from stimulation or over-stimulation respectively of the sympathetic nerve, may occur. In sub- clavian aneurysm, symptoms indicative of pres- sure on the brachial plexus or phrenic nerve may be present. Sebaceous cysts of the skin are common, and resemble those found in other parts. Hydatid cysts in the neck are extremely rare. Aeroceles, or pouch-line protrusions from the trachea or larynx, pharyngoceles, or similar diverticula from the pharynx, occur, but are rare. The same may be said of pneumatocele, in which the apex of the lung protrudes through the pleura and forms a tumour in the posterior triangle of the neck. The term malignant cyst of the neck is applied to a form of carcinoma, which seems occasionally to arise primarily in the epithelium in the remains of the branchial clefts. Solid Tumours of the Neck.—It may be said at once that enlargements of the lymphatic glands form by far the commonest class of solid tumours met with in the neck. The subject