MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 320 optic neuritis may make an early diagnosis possible, in others this is determined only by the occurrence of paralysis of cranial nerves. From cerebral tumour meningitis is distin- guished by its more rapid course, the more irregular paralysis of cranial nerves, and by the absence in most cases of optic neuritis during the early period of the disease. Operations for supposed cerebral abscess have been performed in some cases of tuberculous meningitis. The mistake has been due to the association of discharge from one or both ears with symptoms of intracranial disease. With abscess, however, paralysis is likely to be con- fined to one side, or hemiplegia may be associated with paralysis of third nerve on the opposite side. In the writer's experience chronic dis- charge from the middle ear in children has been associated much more often with tuberculous meningitis than with suppurative meningitis or cerebral abscess. Both typhoid and pneumonia may closely simulate tuberculous meningitis. In children typhoid is frequently associated with constipation rather than diarrhoea ; and the presence also of severe headache and slight delirium, together with extreme irritability in some cases, may make an immediate diagnosis impossible. Where diarrhoea is present, this, together with the character of the stools, may point to typhoid; persistent vomiting points rather to meningitis. The abdomen in typhoid is tumid, the spleen enlarged, and the characteristic " rose-spots" are seen, whereas in tuberculous meningitis the abdomen is flat or concave, the spleen usually not felt, and the rash is absent. In typhoid, decubitus is commonly dorsal ; in meningitis the patient lies curled up on his side. " Stocker's sign " is also of some value : in the tuberculous disease the patient resents any attempt to pull the bed-clothes down, and pulls them hastily over him again, whereas in typhoid the patient scarcely notices the uncovering. Irregularity or slowness of pulse, irregular or low tempera- ture, and still more, the occurrence of paralysis of cranial nerves or the presence of optic neuritis or of tubercle of the choroid, would point strongly to tuberciilous meningitis. The confusion with pneumonia is more likely to arise in children than adults, for in the former lobar pneumonia almost always begins with vomiting, which, with the severe headache and drowsiness and, especially in apical cases, some delirium, may suggest meningitis. The distin- guishing features in such cases are the acute onset, the pungently hot skin, with flushed cheeks and bright eyes, the rapidity of the re- spiration, and often even before definite physical signs of pneumonia appear some slight alteration of breath sounds or note at some part of the lungs. When the first symptom of tuberculous menin- gitis is paralysis of one or more limbs this has been mistaken for infantile paralysis ; but the presence of severe headache and vomiting, with irregularity of the pulse, and later some affection of cranial nerves, would point to meningitis. The converse error sometimes occurs where the onset of infantile paralysis is associated with convulsions, vomiting, and much constitutional disturbance; but the more acute onset, the absence of other symptoms of meningitis, such as irritability, irregularity of pulse, and paralysis of cranial nerves, and the subsequent course of the case soon clear up the diagnosis. Tuberculous meningitis has to be distinguished also from other forms of meningitis, particu- larly posterior basic and suppurative. The diagnosis from the former will be considered below. Suppurative meningitis is characterised chiefly by its much more rapid course, and especially by the fact that it is almost always secondary to some obvious source of infection— most commonly some form of pneumococcal disease, such as pneumonia or empyema, or some form of pyfemia or other general infection. ^The use of lumbar puncture as a means of diagnosis may perhaps be justifiable in very rare cases ; but even if tubercle bacilli are present in the fluid it would seem that they are sometimes present in such small numbers that it is very difficult to demonstrate them, and inoculation of some animal may be necessary to make the examination of any value. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. — It is customary to speak of a " primary " and " secondary " tuberculous meningitis, meaning by " primary " those cases in which there is no other clinical manifestation of tuberculosis ; but it is very doubtful whether the disease is ever primary. Almost, if not quite invariably, care- ful examination reveals some focus of tubercu- lous disease elsewhere in the body: it may be a single caseous bronchial or cervical gland, or some small and unsuspected area of caseation in the hmg. The presence almost always of some distant tuberculous lesion which is evidently of older date than the meningeal infection suggests that in most cases the meningitis is the result of a blood infection. In some cases there is direct infection from a tuberculous middle ear, and occasionally a deposit of tubercle in the meninges starts directly from a caseous tuber- culous mass in the superficial part of the brain substance. The vertex of the brain may show nothing abnormal beyond some flattening of the convolu- tions, or there may be scattered grey or yellow tubercles along the sulci, especially over the anterior part of the cerebrum. The tuberculous deposit is chiefly at the base, about the optic chiasma, the interpeduncular space, and along the Sylvian fissures. The pia arachnoid in these situations is matted and opaque, with much grey and yellow tubercle, and in some cases there is also considerable exudation of yellowish