438 MOIST GANGRENE Moist Gangrene. 'b'ee Gangrene (Varieties). IVIola,.—(1) A rounded mass, usually con- sisting of a degenerated gestation sac, forming in the uterus or Fallopian tube; or (2) a pig- mented spot or ntevus on the skin. See Con- junctiva, Diseases of {Moles); Eyelids, Affec- tions OF {Growths); Skin, Pigmentary Affec- tions OF. Mole: Molar Preg^nancy. See also Abortion (Varieties of Product); Ectopic Gestation (Varieties, Tubal, Tubal Mole); Ovaries, Diseases of {Papillomatous Ovarian Cysts, Rokitansky^s Tumoiir) ; Pregnancy, Pathology of {Affectio?is of Ovum and Decidua, Moles).—The term mole, as applied to a mass formed within the uterus, is of extreme antiquity, and prolonged discussions as to its derivation and true application may be read in the works of the more ancient authors. For a complete account of the early literature of the subject the reader is referred to the Historia Naturalis Molarum Uteri, written by Lamzweerde in 1686. This author gravely discusses the possibility of the conception of moles after intercourse with the devil or with one of the lower animals ; and as the result of various circumstances, such as taking a bath. The frontispiece to his work figures Justice seated above, scales in hand; below is a woman in bed, supported by her attendants, having brought forth several small rat-like animals, which are seen running about in the foreground. These are regarded by two physicians, one of whom maintains, as is indi- cated by the writing on a scroll in his hand, that the patient is virgo intacta; whilst the other, pointing to heaven, argues in the contrary sense. Little reference to the supernatural is found in later works, their avithors, as a rule, dividing moles into two classes—the true and the false. True moles are those which result form a pregnancy which has run an abnormal course; false moles are masses formed in the uterus entirely apart from conception. The descriptions of svibstances recorded as false moles show that these included an infinite variety of pathological products—namely, new growths, such as sarcomata and carcinomata, fibro-myo- mata, polypi of the mucous and fibroid varieties, blood-clots, and bodies composed partly of laminated blood-clot and exfoliated layers of uterine mucosa. The term mole is not now applied to any of the above contents of the uterus, the advance of knowledge having gradually relegated each of them to its proper category under a more descriptive name. In accordance with the tendency to drop vague terms as soon as a deepening analysis renders it possible to do so, many authors have urged that the word " mole" should be excluded altogether from medical literature. But the term mole as applied to altered products of conception has been retained, and is, clini- cally, not without value, as it implies a definite and sufficiently accurate conception of the nature of certain cases, and can be used cor- rectly long before a complete diagnosis can be arrived at. Let us suppose, for instance, that a woman is known to have conceived, but that indications are present which show that her pregnancy is abnormal. There may have been some uterine haemorrhage not followed by abortion. The breasts may have ceased to enlarge, and may have returned to their usual condition. Stirrage may be absent, though amenorrhoea and uterine enlargement may indicate that pregnancy has lasted five months or more. The size of the uterus may not correspond to the calculated duration of pregnancy. Under such circum- stances the term " molar pregnancy " may, as a rule, be employed, until observation renders it possible to determine the condition more exactly. (See " Pregnancy, Pathology of, Ovum and Decidua."). If repeated examination shows that the uterus is increasing in size more quickly than usvial, if repeated haemorrhage occurs, and especially if the uterine tumour feels soft and boggy, the presence of vesicvilar degeneration of the chorion or hydatidiform mole will be suspected. If, on the other hand, uterine enlargement continues very slowly, the other signs of preg- nancy meanwhile disappearing, we may conclude that the ovum is dead, and that the increase in the size of the uterus is due to the escape of blood into it time after time. The blood extra- vasated on each occasion coagulates and forms a series of laminae around the perished ovum, so that when the mass is at last expelled—it may be several months after the death of the foetus—it is foimd to consist mainly of blood in varied stages of degeneration. Such a mass is known as a bloody mole or 7nola cruenta. In other cases it may be observed that the enlarged uterus maintains its size almost exactly, neither growing nor lessening appreciably. Haemorrhage in such case is an uncommon symptom, though it is usually free when at last the uterus expels its contents. This is then found to consist of an ovum whose cavity is much reduced in size, and often contains no trace of a foetus. Its walls, however, are much thickened, and are firm and fleshy in consistency. Section shows that blood has been effused into the space between the chorion and the decidua, and has there coagulated and become more or less organised. The condition is, strictly speaking, one of subchorionic haematoma, and the mass formed is known as a fleshy mole or mola carnosa (q.v.). Hart has described a "fibrous mole," in which organisation had proceeded further than usual, the mass being consequently more tough and fibrous. In