208 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF Chirurgical Society, bringing forward some re- sults that he had obtained in such cases by removal of the tubes and ovaries, combined with the administration of thyroid extract. One of the cases treated by this plan was the subject of such extensive recurrence shortly after excision of the mamma, that further operative measures to remove the disease were out of the question. When shown one year after oophorectomy, thyroid extract having meanwhile been administered, the disease had entirely disappeared. The treatment adopted was based upon the close physiological relationship that is known to exist between the ovary and mamma. It was argued that removal of the ovaries might so affect the nutrition of the mammary region that the progress of the new growth might be arrested ; the thyroid extract, in doses of five grains thrice daily, was given with a view to assist the absorption of the degenerated cancer cells. The above case confirmed this view. Since Dr. Beatson published his paper {Lancet, July 1896) others have made trial of this method, and in many cases with good results. Mr. Stanley Boyd (in the British Medical Journal, 20th October 1900) gives a resume of 54 cases treated by himself and others by oophorectomy with or without the administration of thyroid extract. He says: " In all cases, except one in which death occurred from a cause other than cancer, life seemed to be prolonged by the oophorectomy at least six months." Of the 54 cases, 19, or 35 per cent, were more or less markedly benefited; 34, or 64-5 per cent, were not benefited, or were only doubtfully benefited; and 1 died of exhaustion. In the majority of cases the cancer reappears in six or twelve months, and in Mr. Boyd's collected cases about 6 per cent obtained im- munity for a period of two years or over. The operation seems to have no effect on cancers of the uterus, or of organs other than the breast, nor does it aftect metastatic growths ; only one case of cancer of the breast operated on after the menopause has been reported where benefit has been obtained. So far as our present experience goes the most favourable cases for this operation are those in which the cancer is chronic, where there are no metastatic lesions, and in which the patient has not passed the menopause. The treatment is yet on its trial, and until further experience of its effects is obtained we are hardly justified in urging the operation on the patient. It may, however, be claimed for this method of treatment that, although it has not yet been proved to be curative, it has undoubtedly given better results than has any other form of treatment in inoperable cases. Pagefs Disease of the Nipple and Areola.— Paget, in 1874, directed attention to a charac- teristic disease of the mammary areola, which in his experience was almost invariably followed by cancer of the mammary gland. That Paget's disease is rare is shown by the fact that only in about 1 per cent of cases does it precede carcinoma of the breast. A sufficient number of cases have now been investigated to establish the correctness and importance of Paget's observations as to the morbid entity of the condition and its association with cancer of the breast. The disease begins around the orifices of the ducts as a bright red excoriation, which, after spreading to the areola, gradually extends circumferentially so as to involve more and more of the adjacent skin. The surface of the patch has a florid, raw, granulated appearance, compared by Paget to that seen in an acute balanitis. The nipple is usually indurated and often somewhat retracted, and in the later stages it is replaced by an ulcerated surface. Closer examination of the parts beyond the nipple shows that the surface is not really ulcerated, but that the epidermis is for the most part thin, excoriated, or completely desquamated, while little pearly white patches, scaly areas, and thin crusts, due to accumulated epithelium, are scattered here and there over the surface, especially towards the periphery of the patch. Unlike acute eczema there is no vesication. The discharge is viscid and either clear or slightly turbid, but not purulent. The patient usually complains of a tingling or burning sensation, but there is never the marked itching of eczema. The affected area is slightly raised, and its edge, though often sinuous, is sharply defined; when pinched up it has a peculiar parchment-like and slightly thickened feel. The breast itself may be quite normal, or the parts beneath the nipple may be indurated, or a scirrhous tumour may be felt in this situation; occasionally the tumour is more towards the periphery of the gland. The frequency with which the disease is followed by a carcinomatous tumour in the breast is difficult to estimate, as the cancer may not develop until ten or even more years after the first appearance of the disease; out of 23 cases collected by Bowlby cancer ensued in 14. The tumour, which is of the ordinary scirrhous type, possesses almost invariably the structure of an acinous carcinoma. In some instances so many of the ducts are filled with proliferating cancerous epithelium, that some authors describe the resulting tumours as "duct"' cancers. The morbid histology of the affection was first carefully studied by Thin and Butlin. Subse- quently Darier, Wickham, Hutchinson, and others stated that the disease was a malignant dermatitis due to the presence, in the epidermis, of parasitic protozoa of the natui'e of psorosperms or coccidia, a view which has been strongly