174 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF isolated exceptions have been recorded, that a syphilitic infant should be nursed only by its own mother. Very rarely, indeed, is primary syphilis of the breast met with apart from lacta- tion, and then generally by infection from the lips of a syphilitic male. The true nature of the affection is liable to be overlooked, as the sores are not infrequently multiple, and, moreover, they are generally atypical. Both nipples are occasionally affected. The lesion may take the form of an indurated fissure, an indurated ulcer, a phagedccnic ulcer, or a diffuse induration without ulceration. The frequent multiplicity is accounted for by the presence of more than one surface lesion at which the virus may enter. In doubtful cases the enlargement and induration of the axillary glands, followed by a secondary rash, serve to establish the diagnosis. A careful examination of the infant, along with an inquiry into the history of the case, will afford valuable corro- borative evidence. Secondary and tertiary syphilitic lesions of the nipple and areola in the form of superficial ulcers, condylomata, and deep tertiary ulcers, are more frequently met with than primary sores. The treatment of these various syphilitic affec- tions need not be detailed in this article. Apart from Paget's disease, neoplasms of the nipple and areola are of rare occurrence. The writer has observed cases of epithelioma, myx- oma (in the child), melanotic sarcoma, and simple and ca,vernous angioma. Papillomata have been recorded; they are generally pedunculated. The epitheliomata tend to grow outward in a papillomatous fashion, while at the same time they invade the breast. In the case of the melanotic tumour referred to, the primary growth was small, while the secondary foci, which occupied the substance of the breast, were much larger. The axillary glands were the seat of secondary growths. The whole breast was excised, but recurrent nodules soon appeared in the neighbourhood of the scar. Inflammatory Affections of the Mamma Inflammations of the breast itself generally occur during lactation, but they are liable to occur also about the time of puberty, and in the infant shortly after birth. It is at these periods of evolution that the limits of active growth and functional activity are liable to be overstepped, and the domain of pathology reached. Mastitis is much less commonly met with during the resting state of the gland. Mastitis of Infancy.—About a week after birth the rudimentary mammse, more especially of male infants, frequently become enlarged, firm, and tender, as the result of functional en- gorgement. The condition attains its maximum about the end of the first week, after which involution sets in. The microscope shows the enlargement to be due to an increase in the number of the acini, which are dilated and lined by a single layer of cubical epithelium containing milk-globules. A few drops of milk (" ivitch's milk ") can usually be squeezed from the nipple. If, during the evolutionary stage, an ignorant and meddlesome nurse milk the breast, or mani- pulate it with the idea of "loosening the nipple strings," she converts a physiological congestion into an inflammation attended by pain, redness, and swelling. Should her fingers be contami- nated with pus organisms from, say, a sup- purating umbilicus, from an ophthalmia, or other purulent affection, the chances are that she will introduce them into the ducts, and so convert a simple or non-organismal inflammatory congestion into a suppurative inflammation. The resulting abscess is usually superficial and soon comes to the surface. In more severe cases, however, the breast becomes completely disorganised. The writer has seen the condi- tion followed by suppurative lymphangitis and axillary abscess. Both breasts are occasionally involved. Mastitis of Adolescence.—In girls, at about the time of puberty, especially a little prior to the first catamenial flow, one of the breasts, instead of undergoing the normal gradual evolution, may become suddenly enlarged and give rise to a sense of fulness and discomfort amounting often to distinct pain. The nipple is generally reddened and somewhat turgid. The skin over the breast is unaltered, except perhaps for a slight fulness of the veins. To the touch the breast is abnormally firm, while, at its periphery, indurated and tender nodules can generally be distinctly felt. Both breasts are occasionally involved. Not infrequently a slighter degree of congestion recurs at each catamenial period, until that function becomes freely and regularly established. Spontaneous haemorrhages of a vicarious nature have been recorded as occurring in the breast in connection with the establishment of puberty. Treatment.— In the non-infective cases it is only necessary to apply either a boracic poultice or a lead lotion, and to give support and pro- tection to the organ by means of a covering of antiseptic wool and a bandage, which, in the majority of cases, should include the arm. When suppuration occurs, the pus should be evacuated early by an incision radiating from the nipple. In infants, when the whole breast is involved, the whole organ had better be removed; to leave it would be to sow the seeds of serious trouble in after-life, in the shape of mammary complications during the puerperium, and, perhaps, to render the individual more liable to malignant disease. A condition exactly analogous to the above is met with almost as frequently in males at