180 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF The patient generally complains that for some time back she has had some uneasiness in the breast of the nature of a sensation of in- creased weight and fulness, accompanied fre- quently by sharp stinging or tearing pains which may shoot up towards the shoulder or down the arm. These pains, brought on at first by any stretching or straining movements of the arm, or by handling the breast, may occvir spontaneously and may even interfere with sleep. The subjective symptoms are always more severe during the catamenial period. Inspection does not usually reveal any objec- tive signs except perhaps a slight increased fulness at some parts of the breast. The skin Fig. 9.—From the same case as Fig. 8. Shows a variety of changes in the parenchyma; in some of the lobules the acini are enlarged and lined by columnar cells, in others the acini are compressed and atrophied. To the right of the field are portions of two dilated ducts containing papillomatous ingrowths. Interlobular tissue somewhat sclerosed. over the breast is normal; on squeezing the organ a little yellowish, mucoid fluid can often be expressed from the nipple. Careful iMljMtion shows that the organ is somewhat firmer and less uniform in consistence than normal; the breast tissue has a coarse or knotty feel, due partly to enlargement and induration of its lobules, and partly to the presence of small shot-like cysts. One or more of the lobules or cysts may enlarge to form a little "tumour," and it is generally the presence of this "knot" or " lump" which causes the patient to seek advice. Not infrequently the lump is large enough to give rise to a visible prominence, and the patient becomes alarmed as to the possi- bility of cancer, which is too often erroneously diagnosed. Morbid Anatomy.—On slicing up the organ, the corpus mammae will be found to be well developed and to contain but little intra- mammary fat. To the knife as well as to the touch the fibrous stroma is tough and yielding, but not hard and grating as in malignant disease. Moreover, it will be observed that the indurated areas are less defined than would be expected from clinical examination, thus differ- ing from the indurations of malignant disease. The gland parenchyma is usually more abundant, and its ultimate lobules larger than in the normal resting gland. The ducts are generally somewhat dilated, and often contain a thick mucoid or creamy - looking fluid. Scattered throughout the gland are many small tense cysts, which are most numerous towards the deep surface and peripheral parts of the gland. They vary in size from a mustard seed or less to a pea, while to the feel they are tense and shot-like. Occasionally one or more of the cysts may enlarge to form a distinct tumour the size of a cherry or a bantam's egg. The cysts are generally isolated, though occasionally several are clustered together. Their walls are formed by, and therefore in- separable from, the breast tissue in which they are embedded, a fact worthy of note from the operative point of view, as it explains why they cannot be shelled out. They are more or less spherical and filled with a viscid mucoid fluid, which is some- times clear and colourless, but more fre- quently turbid and of a yellowish, brownish, or greenish colour. Microscopically, the contents consist of granular detritus mixed with degenerating epithelial cells, either granular or dropsical. The larger cysts may contain cholesterine crystals and altered blood pigment. The morbid histology of the affection is characterised by the great variety of the appearances which are met with. The changes are confined almost entirely to the ultimate lobules of the parenchyma, that is to say, to the gland acini aud smaller ducts, along with the vascular connective-tissue stroma which immediately supports them, viz., the in- tralobular or interacinous connective tissue. Many of the lobules are quite healthy. In others the early change consists in a prolifera- tion of the interacinous connective tissue, along with some enlargement of the acini and pro- liferation of their epithelial lining. In some lobules the interacinous connective tissue is increased in amount and altered in character, being sclerosed and poor in connective-tissue corpuscles and blood-vessels. The acini are therefore widely separated, as well as deformed and atrophied by the pressure of the cicatrising interacinous tissue; here and there the latter may be seen to push its way into a dilated acinus or intralobular duct in the form of a