LUMBAR REGION, THE 2 density of the fascia tend to prevent deep abscesses pointing in this region, and favour their extension in the line of least resistance into the pelvis and groin. Examination.—The methods to be employed when examining the abdomen have already been described, and in this article it will, therefore, only be necessary to mention some additional methods in the examination of the lumbar area of the abdomen. The examining hands should never be lifted off the abdomen, but moved gradually along the abdominal wall. Deep palpation of the lumbar region is not easily carried out except in those who are very thin, emaciated, or whose muscles are relaxed under the influence of an ansesthetic; the examination is most successful when the patient lies recumbent, with the thighs flexed and the mouth open. The patient should be directed to sigh, and the examining hands should follow the abdominal wall during the respiratory movements. When the interval between the costal margin and the crest of the ilium is small the difficulties of examination are in- creased. In bimanual palpation the hand on the anterior part of the abdomen should be kept motionless, while the posterior wall is pushed forward against it by the other hand. The patient should also be examined lying upon the aff'ected side, and then on the sound side. In the latter position, if a pillow be placed in the armpit or below the shoulder, the lumbar interspace is diminished, but the muscles are very much relaxed, which permits of deep pressure; this attitude is of great value when the nature and deep origin rather than the exact relations of some tumour are to be made out. It is important to ascertain the direction in which a tumour is growing. Some patients are so extremely hypertesthetic that a satis- factory examination cannot be made without the aid of an anfesthetic. Finally, the patient should, especially in obscure cases, be examined in the knee-elbow position. Percussion of the lumbar region should be made with the patient lying upon the back, then upon either side, and then upon the face; or the back may be percussed with the patient standing erect, and then bending over a chair. Except in cases of chronic peritonitis, short mesentery, or excess of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, when a patient who is suffering from ascites is turned upon his side, the air-contain- ing bowel is floated to the highest point and gives a resonant note, while the gravitation of the fluid to the most dependent part gives rise there to a dull note on percussion. Measurement of the lumbar region is some- times of value; the distance from the umbilicus to the spine of the third lumbar vertebra being compared on either side, as well as the distance from the costal margin to the crest of the ilium. Fluctuation may often be obtained in collec- tions of pus in the lumbar region, such as abscess in connection with the vertebrae or ribs, and by tapping one side of the abdominal wall a wave may be transmitted to, and felt at the other side in cases where there is much fluid in the peritoneal cavity. Pain.—The following facts afford some ex- planation of the greater frequency of pain in the lumbar region than in almost any other part of the body, with the exception of the face and head. 1. Sensation, and therefore pain, is conveyed through the lumbar spinal nerves, the anterior divisions of which are intimately connected with the lumbar ganglia of the smypathetic system, and through them with the plexuses of the sympathetic system, such as the pelvic, vesical, prostatic, uterine, and vaginal. It is reasonable to suppose that a pathological condition of the pelvic viscera, and even excessive stimulation of the organs of generation, will exalt the sensi- bility of the lumbar spinal nerves. 2. The lumbar and lumbo-spinal muscles have an important part to play in maintaining the body in an erect position, as also in stooping and lifting weights. Most of us are familiar with the relief obtained on lying down when we are tired, and have a "pain in the back"— in other words, when we put the lumbar muscles out of action. 3. The frequency of disease of the kidneys, the anatomical position of the kidneys, and the intimate connection between the renal plexus and the lumbar nerves, no doubt account for many of the pains in the lumbar region. Pain in the lumbar region is experienced in many diseases which have no very obvious connection with the lumbar nerves, e.g. in influenza and small- pox. In lumbago (see vol. v. p. 527), a condition described as a rheumatic myalgia, the lumbar and lumbo-spinal muscles are those most fre- quently involved; in this condition the onset of the pain in the lumbar region is occasionally so sudden as almost to warrant one in believing that a rupture of muscular fibrils or a small hsemorrhage into the muscles may have occurred. Neuralgia in the lumbar nerves is by no means uncommon, and herpes or "shingles" involving these nerves is not rare. This condition should always be borne in mind when a patient, even though he gives a history of a strain, complains of severe pain in the lumbar region which usually precedes for a day or two the eruption of the characteristic vesicles. Injuries.—The principles which underlie the diagnosis and treatment of injuries in general are applicable to injuries of the lumbar region. It is important, however, to recognise the direc- tion and depth of penetrating wounds; for organs not situated in the lumbar region may be wounded by weapons penetrating obliquely. As most people prefer to lie on the back, the