MOUTH—INJURIES AND 471 DISEASES OF THE JAW possible to bone. It is usually made of gold, and becoming surrounded by granulation tissue, it remains buried in the deep part of the wound. In the case of the lower jaw various modifications of this method have been tried. For instance, in order to fill in a gap where a tumour had been removed from the body of the jaw, leaving an interval of about two and a half inches, Stanley Boyd fixed a piece of knitting-needle between the two fragments, and this became embedded and kept the two remaining portions of the jaw in their proper position. The writer has tried Michaels' method in the case of the upper jaw without success, but has been suc- cessful in the case of the lower jaw, although a part of the apparatus came away in each case. The position of the fragments remained perfect. Diseases of the Temporo-maxillary Joint.— Acute Arthritis.—These cases fall naturally into two groups :— 1. Non-suppurative arthritis caused by rheu- matism, injury, and gonorrhcBa. There is swell- ing and pain in the region of the joint, and usually an irritating pain in the temple or ear. There is difficulty or impossibility of opening the mouth. It may last from one to three weeks, and sometimes terminates in partial or complete ankylosis. 2. Suppurative Arthritis.—This nearly always occurs during the course of some specific febrile disease such as scarlet fever. Some cases, how- ever, are secondary to suppuration in the middle ear. As soon as the natiire of the disease is recognised an incision should be made on the outer side of the joint and the pus evacuated. It is very liable to be followed by ankylosis. Chronic Arthritis. — Like osteo-arthritis of other joints this is prone to occur in advanced life, although it is not one of the joints that is commonly affected. The inter-articular fibro- cartilage is gradually worn away. The ordinary changes take place in the bony parts of the joint, and finally there may be almost complete ankylosis. A not uncommon symptom of this disease is a partial dislocation which only occurs when the mouth is widely opened. It is termed " subluxation " and looked upon as a disease in itself. It seems, however, to be undoubtedly a symptom of a certain stage of osteo-arthritis. Tuberculous Z>isease.—This is very rare in the temporo-maxillary joint, and only a few cases are recorded. Its treatment differs in no respect from tubercle of other joints. Treatment.—The treatment of all forms of disease of the temporo-maxillary joint consists chiefly in obtaining complete rest during the acute and painful stage. In the non-suppurative diseases, massage of the muscles and manipula- tion of the joints should be practised as soon as convenient in order to prevent ankylosis. In the suppurative cases, after the pus has been evacuated, a similar line of treatment should be adopted. Closure of the Jaw.—By this term is meant a condition in which the mandible cannot be completely depressed, so that the mouth is only partially if at all opened. There is every degree between immobility and almost complete mo- bility. The classes fall into two groups :— 1. Spasmodic or Temporary Closure of the Jaiv.—The most common cause is some inflam- mation of the lower jaw, such as mumps, in- flammation of lymphatic glands, etc. The trouble may be in the jaw itself, especially in cases of impeded eruption of the wisdom teeth. It has also been met with as a symptom of some disease affecting the nervous system, such as tetanus. It is sometimes met with as a symptom of hysteria. As soon as the cause is removed the trouble disappears. 2. Permanent Closure of the Jaw.—This falls into two main groups: those resulting from diseases of the joint, and those caused by cica- tricial bands within the mouth. In the case of ankylosis of the joint various operations have been devised after all other attempts at obtain- ing movement have failed. The most successful operation is to remove the condyle, or both condyles if the disease is bilateral. In cases where cicatrices in the mouth are the cause of the trouble, division of the constricting bands should be tried, but this method of treatment often fails as it is impossible to prevent the formation of fresh scars. In such cases Esmarch's operation is sometimes performed: its principle is to form a false joint in front of the cicatrix. Successful operations of this nature have been performed. Movable Kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections op (^Movable and Floating Kidney). Movable Liver. See Liver, Diseases OF {Hepatoptosis). Movable Spleen. See Spleen, Surgery of {Movable Spleen). Movements. See Massage ; Physio- logy, Tissues {Muscle, Nerve); Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Foetal Movements). Moxa.—Originally a cone or cylinder made from the down of the leaves of Artemisia moxa; one end of the cone is placed against the skin and the other end lighted, and so an eschar of the skin is produced. Artificial moxas are made of cotton, of the pith of some shrubs, etc. soaked in potassium nitrate solution, and these are placed against the skin in a porte-moxa and set fire to. Mozambique Ulcer. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Tropical Phagedmna). MuciC Acid.—An acid, isomeric with saccharic acid (CgHjoOg), obtained by the oxidation of gum or of lactose.