NEPHRITIS 546 distress, yet the respirations continue to be more rapid than in the normal condition, indicating that there is some permanent interference with the work of respiration. Cardio-vascular System.—With the advance of the disease there is increased dyspnoea on exertion, which, in many cases, is due rather to weakness of the circulation than to obstruction from pulmonary changes. Frequently, how- ever, the two conditions coexist, and the cardiac failure leads to engorgement of lung, which in turn gives rise to dilatation of the right side of the heart. Apart from dyspnoea the main symptoms likely to arise from cardiac hyper- trophy are those of headache, ringing in the ears, giddiness, palpitation, and perhaps angina pectoris. These symptoms as a rule occur during the night or follow extreme exertion or other form of excess. During the early morn- ing hours they gradually pass off, so that the patient dozes, and wakes feeling fairly comfort- able. Towards the end the palpitation and dyspnoea may form the most prominent symp- toms, the rhythm of the heart becoming very markedly altered, and the gallop-rhythm rela- tively frequent. At this time the pulse may frequently lose somewhat in tension, and the sounds of the heart become less accentuated. When the heart's action is fairly regular the sounds of the heart may, however, become louder than usual, and both the first and the second sounds are frequently reduplicated. One consequence of the hypertrophy of the left ventricle requires special mention, namely, the tendency to the rupture of blood-vessels which have imdergone degenerative changes. This may give rise to severe epistaxis, to apo- plexy, and sometimes, but more rarely, to gastric or intestinal haemorrhages. Less commonly rupture of vessels may cause hematuria, but far more frequently this symptom is the result of a subacute inflammatory attack. The tendency to rupture of minute arteries is also responsible for the large flame-shaped haemorrhages in the retina, which may occur independently of ura3mic convulsions, although they are more commonly found after convulsions. Haemorrhage into the tympanic cavities and membrana tympani has been described. Nervous System. — Reference has already been made to the frequency of unilateral head- ache and of vertigo. It remains, however, to mention the irritability and weakness exhibited by patients in advanced stages of this disease; they often become low-spirited, and may even attempt suicide. Sometimes, also, after attacks of convulsions, the sense of hearing may be interfered with, and a temporary deafness has been described comparable to the temporary blindness which is far more common. These patients suffer from insomnia which often re- sists the ordinary hypnotics. Uraemic convul- sions may be anticipated when patients with insomnia suff"er from persistent headache, and when the amount of urine undergoes much diminution. {See also " Uraemia.") In renal cirrhosis impairment of muscular strength is relatively frequent, although this is a somewhat late symptom. The skin loses its healthy colour and becomes yellowish, and sometimes slightly jaundiced. This alteration is, however, often due to cirrhosis of the liver. Various forms of skin eruptions have been described in connection with cirrhosis of the kidney; acne rosacea is fairly frequent, and uraemic rashes are met with ; there is often a great deal of itching of the skin, and the irrita- tion may give rise to an erythematous rash. III. The end may be due to insidious inflam- mation of internal organs. Many patients with contracted kidney, if they do not die from apoplexy or uraemic convulsions, suff'er from pneumonia without the usual typical rise of temperature. Pleurisy and simple hydrothorax are frequent, and dry pleurisy is not uncommon. Renal pericarditis often occurs with very little complaint of pain and with little, if any, alteration of cardiac dulness. Sometimes there is tenderness over the pericardial region, and per- cussion or the pressure of the stethoscope may be sufficient to cause pain. The physical signs of renal pericarditis change very quickly; sovmds heard in the morning may be completely altered in rhythm and character towards the evening. The transition to the late symptoms of cir- rhosis of the kidney is sometimes very abruptly marked, and is usually accompanied by failure in the compensatory work of the heart, failure in the eliminating power of the kidney, and in- creasing weakness. The pulse freqiiently loses its high tension, and becomes small, rapid, and irregular. Dropsy may supervene, resembling that of cardiac failure. It is less permanent than that of chronic nephritis, and any improvement of the circulatory powers is almost necessarily attended by diminution of dropsical eff'usion. Slight jaundice may supervene, and patients may complain of haemorrhoids. Diarrhoea is apt to become more prominent and more trouble- some, and may be complicated by the appear- ance of blood from ruptured haemorrhoids, or from ulceration in the intestine. It is always necessary to watch carefully for spontaneous diarrhoea, since, owing to the frequent use of hydragogue purgatives, this symptom may be overlooked. As the disease progresses uraemic symptoms become more marked; the headache is more persistent, the dyspnoea more extreme. The end may be hastened by some complication, such as secondary inflammation of the heart or lungs, or it may be reached through uraemic symptoms; on the other hand, a very large proportion die from cerebral haemorrhage, which is more frequent amongst those who have not suffered from general oedema.