314 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM and liable to exert pressure on the cranial nerves in the aflPected region. This process has a special tendency to occur at the front part of the base of the brain, in the region of the optic chiasma and between the crura cerebri: hence, the optic and oculo-motor nerves are specially often implicated. Often, however, the affection, usually of the circum- scribed form, occurs over the convexity of the hemispheres, and the predominating symptoms will be different. We shall describe briefly the symptoms which characterise the affection at the base and on the convexity respectively; but changes are often found in the same case in both these situations and also in the spinal cord—indeed, it is a special characteristic of syphilitic nervous disease that the symptoms point to multiple lesions in diff'erent parts of the central nervous system. 1. Syphilitic Disease of the Base.—As a rule cert&m. general symptoms appear first, followed soon by local symptoms in the region of the cranial nerves. Of the general symptoms, headache is the most constant and often the earliest sign; it has a great tendency to acute exacerbations, especially at night. Vomiting, giddiness, apo- plectiform attacks are common. Mental changes are often marked: loss of memory, apathy, and general mental sluggishness, with a tendency to temporary increase of these con- ditions, or to states of excitement, or often to alternations of these. The local symptoms are of much greater diagnostic importance. The optic and third cranial nerves are much oftenest affected and may suffer alone {vide su2)ra). Thus optic neuritis is very common, and vision may be affected to any degree, complete blindness being, however, rare except as a temporary phenomenon. The specially characteristic form of visual defect is bitempoi-al hemianopsia from implication of the chiasma. In the region of the oculo-motor nerves it is chiefly one or more branches of the third nerve that suffer: thus various forms of strabismus and especially ptosis are common. The pupillary muscles may also be affected, and absence of reaction of the pupils is very frequent and often very persistent. Paralysis of the third nerve on the one side and of the limbs on the other side ("crossed paralysis") is not uncommon, from pressure of the morbid tissue, especially if a definite gumma is present, on the motor tracts in the crus as well as on the third nerve. Next to the optic and third nerves, the trigeminal nerve suffers most frequently. There is often very severe facial neuralgia, and later anjesthesia of the face and cornea, and ulceration of the cornea. The seventh and eighth cranial nerves are not in- frequently affected, giving rise to facial paralysis and deafness, sometimes bilateral. When the meningitis affects the side of the medulla, a unilateral affection of the bulbar nerves may occur, giving rise to conjoint palsy of the tongue, palate, and vocal cord on one side—a combination very suggestive of syphilitic basal meningitis (Gowers). 2. Syphilitic Diseases of the Convexity.—One symptom is generally very prominent, viz., violent, obstinate, often quite localised headache, frequently with tenderness of the skull at the spot. The motor region of the cortex is affected with special frequency : hence Jacksonian epi- lepsy is common, and, later, paralysis of the opposite limbs (monoplegia or hemiplegia); so muscular spasms, tremors, contractures are often present. From affection of other parts of the cortex such other symptoms as aphasia, hemianopsia, etc., are not uncommon. Mental disturbances may also be prominent. Diagnosis.—In the basal form a combination of obstinate headache, with symptoms of paralysis of certain cranial nerves, especially the optic and third nerves, is most characteristic. Where the disease is on the convexity, a severe localised headache with tenderness of the skull and cortical symptoms (epilepsy, monoplegia) are very suggestive. But any other slowly progressive lesion—for instance, a tumour—in the same situations might cause the same symptoms. What specially characterises the course of the syphilitic affection is the great tendency to repeated remission and relapse of the symptoms. This variability from day to day is often very striking, e.g. in the mental condition, the visual disturbances and affections of other cranial nerves, the paralyses of the limbs. This characteristic of the symptoms, especially if these suggest multiple lesions, should always arouse the suspicion of syphilis, and it may be confirmed by the result of antisyphilitic treatment. Prognosis.—As far as the specific affection of the meninges is concerned, the prognosis is good. Persistent treatment not infrequently results in a complete cure. The danger of a relapse must be remembered, and also the fact that the symptoms may be in part due to concomitant affection of the vessels, the effects of which are permanent. Treatvient.—The usual antisyphilitic remedies must be energetically administered; this is indicated, even if thei-e is only a suspicion of syphilis. The various methods of administering mercury need not be detailed here. Probably the best plan is to give both mercury and iodide of potassium—either both internally, or the iodide internally combined with inunction of mercurial ointment. With regard to the dosage of potassium iodide, it is questionable if the heroic doses advocated in America are more efficacious than moderate doses, say 10 to 20, or at most 30 grains thrice daily. There are no special measures for treating the individual symptoms.