120 MALARIA Romanowsky method. At this advanced stage the pigment is abundant and relatively coarse in grain owing to the agglomeration of separate granules. It is scattered about in the proto- plasm of the parasite, whose amoeboid move- ments will have now ceased. If a blood exami- nation be made just before the onset of the rigor the parasites will be found to be in the sporulat- ing stage, showing the so-called rosette bodies. These are produced within the red corpuscle in the following way :—the hitherto scattered pig- ment becomes fused into a single dense central mass—around this the little masses of nuclear matter arrange themselves; segmentation now occurs in the protoplasm of the parasite, and each segment enclosing a little mass of nuclear matter becomes a spore (see Fig. 2, e and /). The number and arrangement of spores formed varies with the species of the parasite; for example, in the benign tertian, of which we are now speaking, there are fifteen to twenty-three such spores, which are arranged either in double rows or in an irregular manner. The pigment is occasionally divided into two or three masses, or it may be situated to one side (see Plate II., Fig. 6). This disposition of pigment is more frequently met with in stained specimens, owing, probably, to injury received in the preparation of the blood film. If the blood be examined during or towards the end of the rigor, and if the observer be fortunate, the rosette body may be seen actually in the process of breaking up ; the red corpuscle ruptures, allowing the spores to become free in the plasma (see Fig. 2, g). They can be distinguished from blood platlets, which they somewhat closely resemble by their definite form and special staining properties. Finally, the free spores gain entrance to fresh red corpuscles, and become the young endo- corpuscular amoeboid cells of a new generation of parasites (Fig. 2, a). Whether or not they undergo any changes when free in the blood plasma is uncertain ; it is probable, however, that they enter the red blood corpuscles almost immediately after their formation. This concludes an account of the asexual cycle of the malarial parasite. The sporulating or rosette body is called a sporocyte, and the young endo-corpuscular parasites are termed amoebulse, or sometimes myxopods. The early intracorpuscular stages of the sexual cycle of the j^arasite in the human body are not so fully understood. If, however, the blood of a patient suffering from benign tertian or quartan fever be examined during the apy- rexial period, certain pigmented spherical bodies will be found. These closely resemble in ap- pearance the advanced forms of the asexual cycle, but differ from them in that while in the human body they never proceed to sporulation (see Fig. 2, h and i). On staining also they differ in the amount and in the arrangement of their chromatin or nuclear matter. In fresh specimens it will be noticed that some of these spheres possess pigment which is in active motion. If such parasites be watched for a time (generally within a few minutes after the blood has been taken from the body) suddenly one or more flagella are shot out (Fig. 2, k). These filaments possess a rapid, vibratory, and lashing movement. Such is their activity, that if it were not for the agitation they produce in the neighbouring red corpuscles they would be difficult to see. This movement continues for a considerable time—occasionally for an hour, or even longer. As it diminishes the flagella are seen to be about four or five times the length of the diameter of a red corpuscle. They are colourless, and sometimes bulbous at the free extremity, or beaded at some points throughout their continuity (see Fig. 2, k). After exflagellation has taken place the pig- ment, which never enters the flagella, becomes quiescent. These flagellating spheres are hyaline. Certain other spheres will also be observed which do not flagellate. They are somewhat larger than the hyaline spheres, their pigment is less active and arranged in a ring form, and their protoplasm is somewhat granular (see Fig. 2, i). These two varieties of spheres, on accoimt of their sexual nature, are called gametocytes, or gametes. The flagellating hyaline spheres are called micro-gametocytes, the flagella themselves, which are the male elements, being called micro- gametes. The non-flagellating granular spheres, representing the female elements, are called macro-gametocytes; they contain only one ele- ment, which is called the macro-gamete. If the blood of patients who have recently suffered from a malignant malarial infection be examined, in a certain proportion of cases the gametes peculiar to this particular form of in- fection will be found. These are the well-known crescent bodies (Plate II., Fig. 28). Crescent bodies are of special interest, because they were one of the forms of the malarial parasite which first arrested Laveran's attention, and also be- cause of the subsequent speculation and dis- cussion that arose regarding their nature and place in the life-history of the parasite. There is still some doubt as to the exact origin of the crescent body. Mannaberg, as far back as 1892, maintained that they were derived from the conjugation of two ordinary amoebulte, and he stated that he had frequently observed speci- mens which strongly supported his view. Re- cently, Bastianelli and Bignami, by examining the bone-marrow of fatal cases of pernicious malaria shortly after death, say they have succeeded in recognising the young forms from which the crescents are derived. They say that these forms resemble very closely the ordinary amoebula3; at the earliest stages of their growth they are somewhat smaller, how-