315 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM Tumours ot the Meninges With the exception of gliomata, any form of cerebral tumour (vide " Brain, Tumours of," vol. i.) may spring from the meninges. Syphilitic tumours or gummata almost always start from the meninges, and sarcomata (often multiple) are more common outside than within the brain, usually springing from the meninges or the bone, especially at the base of the cranium. The great majority of meningeal tumours belong to one or other of these two groups. Tuberculous tumours are generally found inside the brain. It is not clear how far the statement is true that these always spring from a fold of the pia mater; occasionally they spring from the dura mater—chiefly secondary to tuberculous bone disease. Car- cinomata may spring from the dura mater, but not usually from the ventricles. Rarer forms of meningeal tumour are psammomata, usually springing from the dura at the base or from the choroid plexuses; osteomata, chiefly found in the falx cerebri; fibromata, lipomata, cholestea- tomata, chondromata, dermoid cysts, parasitic cysts. Special attention must be drawn to the frequency of tumours at the base of the brain, generally of a sarcomatous or carcinomatous nature, springing from the dura mater or the bone and, by pressure, causing symptoms in the region of the cranial nerves; the most frequent site is the petrous portion of the temporal bone, but the region of the sella turcica in the anterior fossa or the neighbourhood of the foramen magnum in the posterior fossa may be the seat of origin. The cerebral tissue suffers either from simple compression, as in most cases of sarcomata, or from direct invasion by the new growth, as in syphilitic tumours. There is generally a zone of inflammation of the membranes, especially of the pia arachnoid, around the tumour, sometimes extending to a considerable distance from it. There may be much local thickening and matting together of the membranes, as in syphilitic growths; while widespread, acute meningitis often occurs in tuberculous growths. Symptoms.—It is especially in cases of slowly- growing tumour, springing from the membranes and merely compressing the brain, that cerebral tumour may run a latent course or have but very trifling symptoms. External signs of a tumour are rare : occasion- ally, a growth from the dura may actually penetrate the bone of the skull and appear as a swelling on the surface. A tumour of the base of the brain has been thus recognised in the palate, and, more often, protrusion of the eyeball has been caused from invasion of the orbit. The symptoms of a tumour affecting the meninges over the convexity are naturally of a cortical nature, and they are most definite when the motor region of the cortex is the site of the growth. Thus, convulsions or subjective sensations commencing locally {e.g. in one part of a limb or in the face) and, later, perhaps spreading so as to involve the whole of that side of the body, or even both sides, are the characteristic symptoms of cortical irritation. Occasionally the discharge is from the centres for the special senses, when the tumour im- plicates the meninges over these centres. Cortical paralysis is similarly characterised by being of a local nature, limited in range— one limb or the face perhaps being alone affected. The irritative symptoms occur earlier, and are throughout more prominent than the signs of paralysis, especially where the tumour merely compresses the brain without invading it. In such a case, also, optic neuritis is oftener absent than in cerebral tumour generally. One feature of importance in the diagnosis of a meningeal tumour has still to be mentioned, viz., the site of the headache is usually a definite, fixed one, and corresponds to the situation of the disease, and, what is still more important, pressure or percussion of the skull at that spot causes pain. Where this local pain and tender- ness occur as an early or the first symptom of disease, and the symptoms of cortical implica- tion are mainly or solely of an irritative nature, the diagnosis of a meningeal growth may be entertained. The great symptoms of a tumour of the base are signs of irritation or paralysis of the cranial nerves. These signs appear earlier than the effects of implication of the overlying brain tissue itself, generally a motor paralysis—a fact of considerable importance in deciding whether the tumour is in the meninges or inside the neighbouring brain substance {e.g. pons or medulla). Another helpful point is that meningeal tumours tend to cause remark- ably little mental disturbance. Optic neuritis is often absent. In tumour of the 7niddle fossa, springing from the dura over the petrous bone—the most common site of origin of a basal meningeal tumour—the fifth cranial nerve is specially liable to suffer, thus giving rise to symptoms of its irritation and paralysis, such as pain and anaesthesia about the face, neuro-paralytic ophthalmia, etc. Symptoms of affection of the nerves to the ocular muscles of the facial and auditory nerves may also be present, from extension of the growth or of the meningeal inflammation excited by it. Convulsions are not common. In tumour of the posterior fossa, the nerves springing from the pons and medulla suffer, on one or both sides. The facial and auditory nerves are often affected simultaneously. There is frequently internal strabismus from implica- tion of the sixth nerve. Paralysis of the tongue.