312 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM the base of the brain is affected, but is comparatively rare in vertical meningitis. Signs of implication of the cortex are usually marked only when the motor region is affected. General convulsions are less common than in tuberculous meningitis. Epileptiform attacks, rigidity and spasm, or twitchings of the extremities are common. Later, or from the onset, there may be signs of hemiplegia or monoplegia. Aphasia is less common than in the tuberculous form. Occasionally unilateral hypertesthesia is present. The tendon-reflexes are often exaggerated at first, but later they are diminished or lost. The final stage is one of deep coma, with loss of reflexes : the pulse small, irregular, and very quick: the breathing quick, shallow, and often very irregular—of the Cheyne-Stokes type. Death occurs in deep coma, sometimes with convulsions. It may be well to give here a resume of the chief points of difference in the symptoms of meningitis of the convexity and of the base respectively. In meningitis of the convexity there is often extraordinary latency of the symptoms: delirium is more pronounced, vomiting less frequent, optic neuritis rare, palsies of cranial nerves for the most part absent—or at least a later symptom—retraction of the head slight or absent; cortical symptoms are more common, such as epileptiform con- vulsions—clonic spasms of the limbs usually beginning locally, but tending to become general—and hemiplegic weakness. In menin- gitis of the base the cranial nerves suffer early {e.g. Ptosis, Squinting); vomiting is frequent and may be the first sign; delirium is a later symptom; optic neuritis is not uncommon; retraction of the head is often prominent very early; and spasm of the limbs is more of a tonic than clonic nature. Course of the Disease.—It is always acute, the duration being usually one to two weeks, rarely longer. Lees and Barlow found that the average duration of fourteen vertical cases in children was 8"7 days. Some cases are very acute, death occurring within forty-eight hours. Cases lasting longer than two or three weeks have been recorded, chiefly in chil- dren : probably they belong mainly to the type considered under Posterior Basic Meningitis (see p. 321). Complications.—Sinus-thrombosis and cere- bral abscess are not uncommon complications. Pi'ognosis. — A few cases of recovery have been recorded, with and without operation ; but in the vast majority of cases purulent menin- gitis leads rapidly to a fatal issue. The chief hope in any given case would seem to lie in an error of diagnosis. Diagnosis.—So much of what has already been said under this heading in the other forms of meningitis applies to purulent meningitis that it will be unnecessary to discuss the sub- ject here in any detail. A knowledge of the etiology, the presence of an obvious source of infection, the general characters of the symp- toms, and more especially their rapid course, will often leave no doubt as to the diagnosis of meningitis of the purulent type. General cerebral symptoms, very like those of meningitis {e.g. headache, delirium, vomiting, fever, somnolence, and, in children, convulsions), may occur in the course of an acute fever, especially typhoid fever and pneumonia, or in some more general infection like pyaemia and septicBemia. In pneumonia—the condition of the lungs and the pulse-respiration rate; in typhoid fever—the slower development, the enlargement of the spleen, the roseolar rash, and the characteristic stools and temperature chart; in pyaemia and septicaemia—the presence of phlegmonous processes, swellings of joints, etc. : these will be some of the most important points to observe. In many such cases the diagnosis of meningitis cannot be made with certainty, unless marked retraction of the head and the signs of implication of the cranial nerves or of the cortex appear. Acute suppurative otitis, especially in children, may also have cerebral symptoms very like those of meningitis—e.g. intense headache, vomiting, delirium, giddiness, fever, even general convulsions ; and probably in some cases optic neuritis may be present where there is no meningitis. This fact leads Gowers to conclude that " the general cerebral symptoms alone scarcely warrant the diagnosis of secondary meningitis excited by the inflammation of the ears." It must, however, be said that these symptoms, especially any degree of optic neuritis, are very rare in simple ear disease, and in many cases it is far from clear that meningitis can be excluded from all share in the symptoms. The differential diagnosis of abscess and purulent meningitis is often very difficult or impossible : the symptoms may be very similar, and some of the most frequent causes are common to the two conditions {e.g. injury, ear disease), so that both may be present at the same time. The condition of the temperature is a point of considerable importance. We have seen that in meningitis the temperature is usually considerably above normal; in abscess, on the other hand, after the initial stage has passed, the temperature is usually normal or subnormal. The course of meningitis is usually more rapid than that of abscess; retraction of the head is suggestive of meningitis; symptoms of irritation at the base or on the surface of the brain are usually more prominent in meningitis. Lastly, mention should be made of lumbar puncture as a means of diagnosis. The spinal meninges so often suffer simultaneously with the cerebral that examination of the cerebro-