FORENSIC 268 MEDICINE, opposite. If the child has not breathed, the most prominent organs in view are the thymus gland and the pericardial sac containing the heart, while on either side two small dark organs may be seen, lying far back in the pleural cavities, viz., the lungs. These are of a uniform dark reddish-purple colour, small in size, of firm consistence, and non-crepitant. Should the child have respired—and even one or two vigorous respirations are sufficient—a totally different picture is presented. The heart and thymus gland are now overlapped to some extent by the lungs, which fill the pleural cavities on either side, and the appearance of the lungs themselves is so totally different that from their altered appearance alone we may have little hesitation in deciding that a child has breathed. The lungs are distended, in- creased in size ; the borders are rounded ; their colour is lighter, and not uniform, due to ex- pansion of the air-vesicles and the presence of blood in the capillaries. Adjacent groups of vesicles being unequally expanded, give rise to light and darker patches; while the inter- lobular septa are now distinct, so that a lung which has respired is said to present a " marbled " appearance on the surface. Portions of a lung may remain undistended or atelectic, and these are easily recognised by their foetal appearance. On pressure the expanded lung is elastic and crepitant, and on section emits a frothy fluid from the bronchi. Apart from the appearance of the lungs, confirmation of respiration is obtained by means of the hydrostatic test. Remove all the organs of the thorax en ?nasse, place them in a vessel of water, and see whether the lungs are buoyant enough to support the dead weight of the heart and thymus gland. Then detach one lung, and repeat the experi- ment. Finally, try the buoyancy of each lung separately, and then proceed, keeping notes of the results, consecutively to cut each lobe of each lung into at least twelve pieces, and test their buoyancy. Afterwards subject the pieces to pressure by placing them separately in a towel, and twisting this forcibly, and then again test the buoyancy of each piece. If the lungs give a positive result under all these conditions, then there is not any doubt that the child has fully and freely respired and has been born alive. If portions only of the lungs float, then we conclude that respiration has been partial, but we are not entitled to assume that the child was necessarily born alive without other evidence of the fact. If both lungs and every portion of them sink, then we conclude that the child has not breathed, and has been, in all probability, born dead. There are only two objections of practical importance which may detract from the validity of this test:—First, decomposition may cause lungs which have not respired to float in water from the development of gases of putrefaction. The answer to this is, that putrefaction attacks the lungs late and after it is present in other parts, e.ff. the abdomen, hence in any doubtful case there would be other evidence of putrefaction on the body. Under such circumstances we should not rely upon the hydrostatic test to prove the fact of the child having lived. Further, the gases of putrefaction, if they exist, are easily expelled by pressure, and hence lungs rendered buoyant from such a cause would not give a positive result in the final stage of the hydrostatic test. Second, lungs may sink in the case of a child which has breathed owing either to the presence of disease, such as pneumonia, pleurisy, pulmonary apoplexy, tumours, or from atelectasis. In the first-named case, i.e. the presence of disease, a charge of infanticide is not likely to be proceeded with. With reference to atelectasis, it is undoubted that a child may respire, nay, even continue to live for some hours, and yet after death the lungs be found perfectly foetal in appearance. In such cases respiration is always feeble, apparently taking place through the bronchial mucous membrane, and evidence of the child having been born alive miist be derived from other facts and circumstances. The presence of fine frothy mucus in the trachea and bronchi of a fresh body is very strong presumptive evidence of respiration in such cases. The Stomach Test. — A child in its first attempts at respiration almost always swallows some air, and hence the stomach and upper part of the intestine, if carefully ligatured and re- moved, will be fovmd to float in water. The objection that putrefaction will cause this result is of more weight than the same argument applied to the hydrostatic test; but in the absence of evident signs of putrefaction, and as auxiliary evidence to that derived from the lungs, the test is of considerable value. The further examination of the body of a child is carried out in the ordinary way—all cavities and organs being examined—with a view of determining the remaining questions mentioned above. Was the Child born alive, and how long did it live —There will be no difficulty in determining that a child has enjoyed a separate existence, and has lived for some time after birth, when we find evidence, either of the umbilical cord being in process of separation, i.e. signs of a vital reaction, or the presence of food in the stomach and intestines. The great difficulty will arise when death has occurred very shortly after birth. In this case the data on which an affirmative answer will rest are, in addition to signs of full respiration (any respiration occurring during the passage of the child from the uterus, i.e. in utero, in the