233 MEDIASTINUM, THE possibility of ascites being due to mediastinitis rather than to cirrhosis of the liver should be particularly borne in mind. An enlarged liver, especially in children, without obvious cause is another condition which should suggest the possibility of mediastinitis. The points on which stress should be laid are a dusky complexion, enlargement of the veins of the neck with inspiratory swelling, oedema of the face and upper extremities, a pulsus para- doxus, and in some cases ascites coming on early without the usual symptoms of cirrhosis, coupled with an increased area of cardiac dulness, and possibly a pericardial friction sound, but without signs of valvular disease. The pleural effusion which is so often seen in this disease by obscur- ing the cardiac dulness increases the difficulty of diagnosis. One of the difficulties is to ex- clude a mediastinal tumour; in many respects the conditions brought about by these two affections are so similar that a differential diagnosis will at times tax the skill of the ablest clinician. At one time a pulsus paradoxus was regarded as diagnostic of indurative mediastino-pericar- ditis, but too much reliance must not be placed on this sign, as it may occur where there is no mediastinal affection, and it may be wanting in cases of the disease. Prognosis.—The disease runs a chronic course, and is not one that is capable of being cured. It may last from a few months up to several years. The usual cause of death is heart failure, with increasing oedema and ascites, the dilatation being chiefly on the right side of the heart. Intercurrent attacks of bronchitis and broncho- pneumonia often carry off the enfeebled patient, or his end is accelerated by pleural effusion. In some cases death is due to extension of the tuberculous mischief which started the disease. In one case the interference with the return of blood from the brain caused death from apoplexy. Treatment.—Inasmuch as we are powerless to check the progress of the disease when the symp- toms are fully developed, we should do our best to prevent the conditions which bring it about. Hence, in all thoracic inflammatory affections, such as pericarditis, pleurisy, and pneumonia occurring in childhood, great care should be taken to see that the patients are confined to bed until all febrile symptoms have subsided, and during convalescence they should be kept at rest, so as to allow the damaged organs to regain, as far as possible, their normal condition. As regards the disease itself all that can be done is to meet symptoms as they arise. Tonics, such as digitalis, strophanthus, and strychnine, may be required to prevent heart failure. As- piration should be employed in cases of pleural effusion, and if ascites occur the abdoinen may be tapped. Mediastinal and other Intrathoracic Growths The following growths have been met with in the chest:—Carcinoma and sarcoma in all their forms; lymphadenoma; enlargement of lym- phatic glands, either simple, tuberculous, or malignant; gumma; extension downwards of an enlarged thyroid ; hypertrophy of, or tumour arising from, the thymus ; cysts, dermoid, con- genital, or hydatid] fibroma, osteoma, enchon- droma, or lipoma; actinomycosis. Owing to the difficulty of distinguishing clinically between mediastinal tumours and other intrathoracic growths, it has been thought well to treat them together under a common heading. That this is a real difficulty is shown by the fact that even at the necropsy it is often impossible to be absolutely certain whether the growth started in the mediastinum and spread outwards, or whether the converse occurred. The great majority of the growths in the chest are of a malignant nature (sarcoma or carcinoma). Hospital statistics would suggest that intrathoracic growths occur more frequently than is really the case ] this is probably due to the fact that owing to their duration and diffi- culty of diagnosis, a large proportion of these cases gravitate to the hospitals. During the years 1884 to 1898 inclusive 46 cases of intra- thoracic growths were admitted into the West- minster Hospital; in the same period 16,591 medical cases were admitted—giving, therefore, a proportion of 1 to 360. Etiology. — Owing to the confusion which has existed in the past in the nomenclature of new formations, it is difficult to speak with any degree of certainty as to the various etiological factors. It may, however, be stated that sarco- mata occur at any period of life ; they are fre- quently met with in children, and they have been seen in infants. On the other hand, car- cinomata are practically confined to persons of middle age or of advanced years, and the probability is that, reckoning the number of cases per mille of the living, cancer will be found to increase in frequency with every year of life. If, however, all forms of intrathoracic growths are lumped together, the majority of cases occur in the middle period of life— i.e. between thirty and fifty (26 cases out of 46). In the preceding decade, viz., twenty to thirty, there were 10 cases; under twenty years of age, 3 cases; and over fifty, 7 cases. Statistics of cases of intrathoracic malignant disease in the Westminster Hospital show that males were affected almost thrice as often as females (33 to 13). This is almost exactly the proportion in the statistics collected by Dr. Vincent Harris (109 to 47). Heredity has a certain amount of influence in favouring the onset of malignant disease in the thorax as elsewhere.