MICTURITION 402 obstruction, and must not be confounded with suppression, which implies a failure of secretion (see " Urine "). Its most common cause is a stricture of the urethra (q.v.). Enlargement of the prostate may cause retention at one time, frequency of micturition at another, and incon- tinence at a third. In the eax-ly months of pregnancy retroversion of the gravid uterus may cause complete retention, which may also occur after an operation such as for haemorrhoids, torn perineum, and the like. In children a tight prepuce or an impacted calculus, or rectal irritation by thread-worms, may be causal factors. The first-named is specially to be noted, as well-marked cases of hydronephrosis have been known to arise as a result of this form of obstruction. Incontinence of Urine in Children.—This is a common condition in children. It is most fre- quently seen in nervous and emotional children, but is also seen in those with no obvious personal nor hereditary neurotic tendencies. As a rule, with advancing years the tendency gradually lessens and then finally disappears, but in some instances it continues without change until puberty and then gradually disappears. If persistent, the possibility of the existence of some congenital defect in the bladder or urethra should be kept in mind ; this holds good espe- cially for girls. Mention need only be made of the existence of incontinence as a symptom in many severe organic diseases of the nervous system. In these diseases the incontinence may be due to a disturbance of the centres and nerve roots in the lumbar cord, or to a loss of the higher controlling mechanism. In many cases a disturbance of both these functions prevails. Nocturnal Incontinence.—This is the most troublesome form of the disorder. In spite of all precautions that may be taken, and even if the child is most anxious to assist in the matter, a qviantity of urine is passed involun- tarily during the night. It is important to emphasise the fact that in the great majority, if not indeed in all of these cases, the child can- not be blamed, and therefore should not be in any way punished for this misfortune. What appears to occur is that during sleep, whenever the bladder becomes even slightly distended, a reflex action is set up, and involuntary micturition occurs. Not infrequently the ten- dency is aggravated by local irritation, e.g. phimosis, worms, or injudicious dietary, with resulting irritation of the solar plexus. In a highly-strung child any emotional excitement before going to bed will predispose to its occurrence. The treatment of this class of case is simple, but sometimes unsatisfactory. In the first place, we must look for any source of local irritation such as already indicated, and if that be present it must be suitably corrected. If nothing of the kind can be made out, we may try one or more of the following, which are all useful:—(a) Three to ten, or more, grains of bromide of potassium or sodium in conjunction with five to ten minims of tinct. belladonna in a little glycerine and water half an hour before bedtime; {b) a belladonna plaster applied to the lumbar region ; (c) a hot fomentation applied to the belly. The patient should also be made to sleep on a slightly filled water-cushion. Incontinence in Adults.—True incontinence must be distinguished from that due to dribbling from an over-distended organ. An examination of the hypogastric region will readily reveal the latter condition. In elderly men this symptom is in the great majority of instances due to irritation from enlarged prostate, and calls for treatment by the use of the catheter. In this class of case, however, it is surprising what benefit may be obtained by educating the patient to fully empty the bladder. This is a point of considerable value, and its recognition and practice will often be attended with gratifying results ; its value to the patient is great, not only for the temporary relief afforded him, but from the diminution of the risks associated with a catheter life. In women care must be taken not to confuse a distended bladder with an ovarian or par- ovarian cyst. True incontinence is a frequent symptom in cases of gross lesions in the central nervous system. Its recognition is easy, and its treat- ment is apt to be as unsatisfactory as that of the primary disease. Diminished Size of Stream.—This may arise from a congenital narrowing of the external meatus, or from an enlarged prostate, or stricture of the urethra, interfering with the discharge of a normal volume of water. Other factors bearing on this are considered in other articles (see " Heematuria," " Urethra "). Pain on Micturition.—A consideration of the various conditions giving rise to painful micturi- tion (dysuria) falls outside the scope of this article. As the determining factors are of local origin they are found discussed in other sections (see " Bladder," " Urethra," " Heematuria," etc.). Mid-a—In compound words mid- signifies middle; e.g. midbrain (mesencephalon; see Embryology), midriff (the diaphragm), and midsternum (the mesosternum). Middle Ear. See Ear, Examination OF; Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane ; Ear, Acute Inflammation of Middle Ear ; Ear, Middle Ear, Chronic Suppuration ; Ear, Middle Ear, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth ; Vertigo ; etc. Mid-pa.in.—Pain in the pelvis (uterine or ovarian) occurring at the midtime between two