LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 48 completely; in other instances, periods of quiescence and apparent arrest alternate with acute or subacute phases. Unless completely arrested there is a tendency to pass through the stages of infiltration, softening, and excava- tion. The symptomatology varies endlessly. The local and constitutional phenomena, and complications and accidents which may super- vene, have been already discussed. Where the lung tends to become more fibrous the chroni- city is most marked. Terminations.—The disease terminates differ- ently in different instances. In the foreground it is right to emphasise the natural tendency towards cure. This is illustrated abundantly by post-mortem observations in the case of persons dying from other diseases. These records of spontaneous cure and the results of clinical observation afford abundant ground for the statement that if patients were only taken in hand early enough, and kept under proper conditions long enough, complete arrest would be the most frequent termination. The tendency to cure even in advanced cases is evidenced by the recurrence of periods of remission and apparent arrest. On the other hand, the danger of renewed activity, even in latent processes, must not be forgotten. With the recurrence of such exacerbations the progress is downwards. In pronounced cases the tendency is towards death ; this may occur after weeks or months or years (acute, subacute, chronic). Death occurs in a variety of ways, {a) The chief factor in producing death is intoxication, either acute or more gradual. Toxic products are manufactured in relation to the growth of tubercle bacillus. These produce local irritation, and when absorbed cause widespread disturb- ance ; they effect emaciation and enfeeblement, and especially exert a depressant influence on the heart and circulation. Other organisms, present from time to time (mixed infection), are responsible for the production of toxic products. {b) Death may result from the dissemination of bacilli in different directions and the institution of a tuberculous process in other viscera (intes- tine, brain, genito-urinary tract). (c) Death may result suddenly from incidental conditions, e.g. haemorrhage, pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism, {d) Death is hastened and the dis- comfort of the patient increased by advancing interference with hpematosis as the lung is pro- gressively involved. Diagnosis The timely diagnosis of pulmonary tuber- culosis ranks as one of the most important in clinical medicine. This position is assigned chiefly because of two considerations. First, the enormous frequency and mortality of the disease ; and second, the hopefulness of treat- ment in the early stages, contrasted with the hopelessness at later stages. Too gi-eat cai-e- fulness cannot be exercised, therefore, with a view to early diagnosis. There is no blinking of the fact that many persons die because the tuberculous nature of their infection is recog- nised too late. Owing to a variety of reasons, none of which is commonly valid, a blundering vagueness is maintained too long. It cannot be too urgently insisted that the diagnosis is valuable in proportion as it is early. In concluding a diagnosis there are commonly three sets of considerations : (1) certain symp- toms which lead us to suspect the presence of the disease; (2) certain physical evidence in relation to lungs and other organs which confirm the suspicion; (3) the detection of the tubercle bacillus, which affords definite proof. That is the natural order of thought, and in that order we shall consider the evidence. It must be kept in view, however, that evidence is not always complete; contrariwise, it is often ex- tremely faulty, and the diagnosis is made by the careful piecing together of slender fragments. (1) Symptoms which lead us to suspect the presence of the disease.—The condition should be suspected in presence of certain symptoms, particularly if the symptoms, which may of themselves seem trifling, continue, and if no other explanation of their presence be forth- coming. The symptoms are not all directly referable to lung disease, and may not all be present in the giveii case. They include cough, expectoration, haemoptysis, breathlessness, feel- ing of oppression or pain, huskiness of voice, pallor, loss of flesh and weight, indigestion, loss of appetite (especially in the morning), sense of weakness, languor, feverishness, night-sweats. The presence of such symptoms calls for a thorough overhauling of the patient, including physical examination of lungs and other organs, and microscopic examination of expectoration or other discharges. (2) Evidence in relation to lungs and other organs:— (a) Physical signs in lungs.—These have been fully considered {vide p. 30). Attention should be directed especially to the signs of incipient tuberculosis; care bestowed on their precise determination will be amply repaid. In a doubtful case an exact note of the physical condition should be made from time to time ; this is none the less important if the result of the first examination be negative. Corrobo- rative evidence may be available by means of the spirometer (p. 31). [h) Pulse.—Rapidity of pulse—let us say 85 to 100 or more per minute—if otherwise un- explained, is highly significant. Maintenance of increased pulse-rate is often an early symptom. Along with increase in rate some degree of softness may usually be noted. (c) Temperature.—Elevation of temperature is commonlj^ found some time in the twenty- four hours if the record be made sufficiently