MYASTHENIA GRAVIS 499 superficial. The involvement of the ocular muscles, the absence of similar cases in the family, the presence of the myasthenic state and myasthenic reaction, and the temporary improvements in myasthenia gravis place the diagnosis beyond doubt. Prognosis.—Of 60 cases collected and analysed by Harry Campbell and myself, 23 ended fatally. The average duration of life in the fatal cases was about a year and a half after the development of the first symptoms. It is inadmissible to lay too much stress, however, on deductions drawn from the recorded cases; without doubt these figures give an exaggerated impression as to the fatality of the disease, as will be seen from the following considerations. In the first place, the number of cases is not great; secondly, the nature of several of the cases was not recognised imtil the post-mortem, when the absence of a discoverable lesion to account for the symptoms drew the observers' attention to the unusual nature of the condition; and, thirdly, it is certain that many non-fatal cases have passed unnoticed, the majority having been in all probability diagnosed as hysteria. Although a year and a half has been the average duration of life in the fatal cases, in some instances the symptoms have been present for a very much longer period. Dreschfeld's patient, for instance, suffered from the disease for fifteen years. Death has been known to occur in fourteen •days in one case, while in several the total duration of life after the disease first appeared was under six months. Sometimes remarkable improvement takes place, and the symptoms may entirely or almost entirely disappear for months or even years. It is probable that complete and permanent recovery sometimes takes place, but since the majority of reported cases have only been recently observed, time must elapse before it is possible to speak dogmatically upon this point. In fatal cases, the end is usually sudden and often quite unexpected—a fact which should be borne in mind when giving a prognosis. It is particu- larly in those cases in which attacks of dyspnoea occur that a fatal result is most to be feared. Treatment.—Although no specific treatment is known, much can be done by palliative measures. Since the severity of the symptoms is greatly influenced by the psychic state of the patient, it follows that mental excitement of every kind is to be avoided. The beneficial effect to the patient of a favourable prognosis ■cannot be too strongly emphasised. Although his friends should be informed, the patient must not know of the gravity of his condition. The patient must forego muscular fatigue in any form ; more particularly is this important as regards the parts chiefly affected by the myas- thenic state. If there is much weakness, absolute rest in bed should be insisted on. It is important that the patient be warmly clad, since cold increases the severity of the symptoms. If there is much weakness in the muscles of mastication and deglutition, the greater part of the daily nourishment should be taken early in the day, as the myasthenic state becomes more pronounced towards evening. Solid food should be thoroughly minced, in order to spare the muscles of mastication, and to obviate the risk of choking. If the patient is unable to swallow the requisite amount of nourishment, he should be fed per rectum rather than by the oesophageal tube, for in one recorded case the passage of the stomach tube brought on a fatal attack of asphyxia. As regards electrical treatment: Faradism should not be used, as it actually does harm by fatiguing the muscles. Galvanism has been extensively employed, but it cannot be said that any certain beneficial resvilts have followed its use, although Goldflam attributes the im- provement in his cases largely to this mode of treatment. It is very doubtful whether massage has any beneficial effect. Hitherto drugs have been found of little value in the treatment of this disease. Strych- nine has been used in a number of cases both by the mouth and hypodermically, but no definite improvement has followed its use. Negative results have followed the use of glucose, potassium iodide, mercury, veratrin, physostig- min, and suprarenal extract. Thyroid extract, employed by Buzzard in one case, was followed by great improvement from the day the drug was first given; but later a relapse occurred, and although this patient stated that he im- proved whenever he was taking the thyroid, it is open to question to what extent the effect was a physical one. In another case in which thyroid was given, there was no improvement. Arsenic and iron appear to do good, probably by their general tonic action. It seems possible from theoretical considera- tions that inhalations of oxygen and infusion of saline fluid may be of use in the attacks of dyspnoea and cyanosis which are accompanied by general increase of the myasthenic state. Striimpell states that the attacks of dyspnoea may be relieved by pulling forward the tongue. Mycelium.—The threads or hyphse of a fungus which constitute its vegetative, as dis- thiguished from its reproductive, portion (Gr. iu,uKT79, fungus, Tjko';, a nail). See Lungs, Para- sitic Affections {Aspergillosis); Micro-Organ- isMs {Hyphomycetes); Nails, Affections of (Intoxications, D iagnosis). Mycetoma. Symptoms 500 Pathology . . . ■ .501 Diagnosis ...... 502 Treatment . . . ■ • .502