MENTAL DEFICIENCY 358 may be, as in severe cases of whooping-cough, from hsemorrhagic extravasations. Morbid hypertrophy of the brain, first described by Virchow in 1856, characterised by a large piled-up cranium, with increased circumfer- ence above the level of the superciliary ridges, is associated with inflammatory changes, but needs to be carefully distinguished from hydro- cephalus. (c) Sclerotic cases include a considerable number of cases of mental defect in which cerebral degeneration is either the terminal condition of inflammatory processes (thus con- nected with class b), or arises as a separate mor- bid process described by Bourneville, luider two principal forms—(1) atrophic, and (2) tuberous. The affection usually begins in early infancy, but is sometimes deferred to the second year. The frontal and occipital lobes are specially affected by the sclerosis. Repeated spasms occur, often localised to particular groups of muscles, and some loss of power follows, amounting occasion- ally to hemiplegia. The child is dull, inatten- tive, and helpless; the mental torpor is usually progressive, though it may be interrupted by brighter intervals. Anatomo-Pathology I. Congenital Cases.—{a) Microcephalus.— The cranial peculiarities of this type have been already described. Here we may state that premature synostosis of the sutures of the skull is in our experience rare in this variety, so that the operative measures founded on this hy- pothesis are illogical. The common character- istic of the microcephalic brain is posterior shortening of the cerebral hemispheres, the cerebellum being thus left uncovered to a greater or less extent. All parts of the brain are on a small scale; but it is the occipital lobe which is least developed, pointing to forma- tive processes being arrested probably between the third and fourth months of gestation. The anterior lobes are imperfectly developed, but yet more advanced than the posterior. Histo- logically, the brain cells are simple in formation, rounded or oval, with but few and stunted processes. (6) PorencepJmlus. — In this condition fluid takes the place of brain substance, a cavity being found usually on the surface of the cere- bral hemisphere extending to the lateral ven- tricles. The cavity may communicate with the arachnoid sac, or be separated from it by the visceral arachnoid. The defect is usually congenital, but may be due to atrophy after circumscribed inflammation. (c) Hydrocephalus may be divided for patho- logical purposes into two main classes :— 1. Primary, including idiopathic cases. 2. Secondary—those secondary to meningo- encephalitis, or to tumours. In the first class of cases there are two varieties, congenital and acquired, and, according to Meynert, they may be distinguished by the fact that in the former the lateral ventricles are extended in their long diameter, in the latter transversely. In both varieties there is an excessive accumulation of fluid, and in a case of profound idiocy recorded by Fletcher Beach, as much as thirty-seven ounces was found. Con- siderable amount of fluid may co-exist with only moderately impaired intelligence, as in a case reported by Shuttleworth of a girl of eleven only slightly imbecile, who conversed rationally till within an hour of her death, when it was found that her large globular skull contained twenty ounces of fluid to thirty-six of cerebral matter. A chronic intraventricular meningitis (congested ependyma) is presumed to be the source of the effusion; but besides hyper- secretion there may be blocking of foramina and lack of normal absorption in the exterior serous cavity. In extreme cases the septum between the ventricles may disappear, and the cerebral envelope become thinned in a marked degree. In secondary hydrocephalus there is obliteration of the foramina of Monro, Magendie, or Miezer- jewski, or obstruction of the veins of Galen, by the pressure of tumours or meningitis. {d) The characteristic pathological features of mongoloid idiocy, in addition to the physical features already alluded to, are a brain short in antero-posterior measurement, the occipital lobe being often imperfectly developed, coarsely con- voluted, and with few secondary convolutions. Wilmarth remarks of five mongoloid brains examined by him that they were all of fair size for imbecile brains, the pons and medulla alone being very small—indeed, only about half the usual relative weight. Archibald Garrod and John Thomson have noticed the frequency with which cardiac imperfections are found in young mongoloid idiots; and the latter has recorded a three-year-old case in which he found incom- petence of the tricuspid valve, probably due to intra-uterine endocarditis. These children have, as a rule, poor stamina, and are apt to succumb to tubercular disease early in life. (e) Sporadic cretinism has a literature of its own, and for its pathology we refer the reader to the article "Cretinism," vol. ii. p. 251. (/) Primarily Neurotic Cases.—The patho- logical features of this class vary considerably, but Clouston lays much stress upon the preva- lence of the pointed Gothic-arched neurotic palate, as associated with neurotic diathesis in contradistinction to the deformed palates which obtain in the other forms of idiocy and imbe- cility. Eugene Talbot of Chicago has remarked the comparative preponderance of V-shaped palates amongst upper-class defective children —usually of the neurotic type—in an ex- amination of these and of children in public idiot asylums. It is in this class that a typical asymmetry of cerebral hemispheres, both as