409 MIDWIVES occasion to use. In Manchester it is the custom to suspend midwives in all cases when puerperal fever has occurred in their practice ; but if the woman has understood and carried out the rules, the suspension is removed as soon as the neces- sary precautions have been taken. The midwife is directed to keep her nails cut short, and to preserve the skin of her hands from chaps and other injuries. When called to a confinement, the midwife must take with her in a bag or basket furnished with a washable lining : (1) an appliance for giving vaginal injections, a different appliance for giving enemata, a catheter, a pair of scissors, and a nail brush; (2) an efficient antiseptic for disinfecting the hands, etc.; (3) an antiseptic for douching in special cases. These requirements of the C.M.B. are hardly detailed enough ; the Manchester authority's recommendations are better. They are:—The bag should have a detachable wash- able lining which must be kept clean, and it should contain (1) a vaginal douche tin or a syphon douche in preference to the ordinary syringe : glass nozzles should be used; (2) an enema syringe carried in a separate box: on no account must the enema syringe be used for vaginal injections, or the vaginal appliance for giving enemas ; (3) a catheter, metal or glass ; (4) a pair of scissors, preferable with detachable blades ; (5) a clinical thermometer ; (6) a nail brush and soap ; (7) stout linen thread or tape for tying the cord: this should be boiled and carried in a bottle ready for use ; (8) an anti- septic for the hands, perchloride of mercury ; (9) an antiseptic for douching, lysol or kresol; (10) an antiseptic for the eyes, boracic acid ; and (11) as a lubricant, glycerine of perchloride of mercury (1 per 1000). The Manchester authority also instructs that the bag should be overhauled every night, that the lining should be changed once a week and at once if soiled, and the bag itself including the handle should be disinfected once a week by washing it with a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 per 1000). It seems almost a pity that a metal tin which can be sterilised is not recommended instead of a bag. The C.M.B. further instructs midwives that before touching the genital organs or their neighbourhood they must on each occasion dis- infect their hands and forearms, and that all instruments and other appliances must be dis- infected, preferably by boiling, before being brought into contact with the patient's generative organs. Special rules are laid down for disinfec- tion after attendance upon a case of puerperal fever or other infectious disease. (b) Directions concerning the Midivife's Duties to her Patie7it.—A midwife in charge of a case of labour must not leave the patient without giving an address by which she can be found without delay ; and after the commencement of the second stage, she must stay with the woman until the expulsion of the placenta, and as long after as may be necessary. In cases where a doctor has been sent for on account of the labour being abnormal, or of there being threatened danger, she must await his arrival and faithfully carry out his instructions. The midwife must wash the patient's external parts with soap and water, and then swab them with an antiseptic solution on the following occasions : {a) before making the first internal examination, (6) after the termination of labour, (c) during the lying-in period, when washing is required, and {d) before passing a catheter. For this purpose the midwife must on no account use ordinary sponges or flannels, but material which can be boiled before use, such as linen, or bui-nt afterwards, such as cotton-wool. No more internal examinations should be made than are absolutely necessary is the rule laid down by the C.M.B. ; but it is questionable whether some effort should not be made to define more accur- ately what'' absolutely necessary " means, for in the case of normal labours it seems hardly necessary to make more than two vaginal examinations in the first stage and one in the second. The Board does not describe how the midwife is to cleanse her hands, but some of the local super- vising authorities do. I quote from one : " The midwife must prepare her arms, hands, and nails in the following manner : First, they are to be washed with warm water and soap, the nails being scrubbed with a nail brush. This must be carried out very carefully : a nail scraper would be found useful. The arms, hands, and nails must then be disinfected by washing in a basin containing perchloride of mercury solution 1 per 1000, the nails being again scrubbed. The hands should be left in the solution not less than two minutes." The placenta and membranes should be examined before they are destroyed, in order to see that they have come away entire. The midwife must remove soiled linen, blood, fasces, urine, and the placenta from the neighbourhood of the patient and fi'om the lying-in room as soon as possible after the labour, and in every case before she leaves the patient's house. The midwife has also duties to perform for her second patient, the child. As soon as the child's head is born, and if possible before the eyes are opened, the eyelids should be carefully cleansed. Lint dipped in a warm solution of boracic acid is a good means of cleansing the eyes. The cord should be carefully tied in two places, and then cut with scissors which have previously been boiled. If the child be born apparently dead, the midwife is to carry out the methods of resuscitation which have been taught her. At birth the infant should be loosely wrapped in a warm blanket until the mother has been seen to and the third stage be over. It should then be examined for the detection of abnormalities. It should next be washed and dressed in front of a fire ; the cord