325 MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL Third, 1854 to 1874—in many widely-scat- tered districts in Europe, particularly in Sweden, Germany, and Russia. In the United States and Canada there were very many outbreaks. Fourth, 1876 to 1884—limited outbreaks in many parts of Europe, not so widespread or severe as in the third period. In the United States there were a few small outbi'eaks. We are at present in a fifth wave or period. Within the past few years there have been epidemics in many places in Germany and France, and many small epidemics in the United States. In the United Kingdom cerebro-spinal fever has never been a very serious or widespread disease. In an appendix to his ai'ticle in All- butt's System Ormerod gives a full statement of the outbreaks, few in number, and chiefly in Ireland. The important epidemics in that country were in 1846, 1866-67, 1885-86, and there was a slight epidemic in 1890 (Parsons and Little, B.2LJ., June 23, 1900; and "A Discussion at the Royal Academy of Medicine," B.M.J., July 7). A few cases have been reported recently in England (Handford). It is perhaps most convenient to describe the general character of the disease under the two forms of the epidemic and sporadic. Characters op Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Fever.—Few infections occur in such remark- able waves. For long periods a district or a town may be comparatively free; then within a few months a large number of cases are seen. A second peculiarity is its occurrence in widely- separated regions, or as isolated epidemics in places hitherto quite free. It may be limited in a remarkable way to special districts in a city. A majority of the epidemics have occurred in the winter and in the spring, but to this there have been some notable exceptions. Villages and country districts have suffered more than towns and cities. While one of the most fatal of acute diseases, cerebro-spinal fever is not a great pestilence; comparatively few individuals are attacked during periods of prevalence, and the general mortality may be but slightly in- creased. On the other hand, scarcely any known fever kills so large a proportion of those attacked. Among specific diseases cerebro-spinal fever stands in some point close to pneumonia. The seasonal relations are the same in both, and the two diseases may prevail together. The abrupt onset, the great frequency of herpes in both, the leucocytosis, "the almost identical characters of the fibrino-purulent exudate in the two diseases" (Netter), the freqiient complication of pneumonia in epidemic cerebro-spinal fever and of menin- gitis in pneumonia, are additional points of contact. The degree of contagion is about the same in both. On the other hand, Leichtenstern, speaking against the view that the pneumo- coccus is the cause of epidemic cerebro-spinal fever, says: " Pneumonia is a disease spread over the entire earth and appears at all times, there being no land immune from it. Epidemic meningitis is very rare, and in many countries is still unknown. Croupous pneumonia attacks every age, the disposition increasing somewhat with increasing age; epidemic meningitis is a disease which affects children and young people; beyond thirty-five there is slight disposition to it. Ci'oupous pneumonia has a typical course and a crisis; epidemic meningitis has no crisis. The complications of the two diseases are different," etc. Age.—Children and young adults are most frequently affected. As a rule, more than half the cases are in persons imder ten years of age. The disease is probably mildly contagious, in much the same way as is pneumonia, and, as in that disease, there may be remai'kable house epidemics, even when the disease is not prevail- ing in epidemic form. I have reported a family in which five cases occurred in rapid succession in one house within six weeks. Sporadic Cerebro - Spinal Fever. — Very special interest attaches to this form, as through it the disease is kept alive in com- munities, and it is possibly a quite widespread type of meningitis in young children. According to the Fifty-ninth Report of the Registrar-General, 1896, the deaths from cerebro- spinal fever in England from 1877 to 1896, in- clusive, only once exceeded 50 per annum. For the decade ending 1896 there were only 233 cases, against 406 for the previous decade. In Scotland there were only 6 deaths from cerebro- spinal fever in 1895, and 5 in 1896. In Ireland there were 76 deaths in 1896, and the same in 1897. In two of the large metropolitan hospitals the figures were as follows:—At St. Bartholomew's, from 1860, cases with the dia- gnosis of cerebro-spinal meningitis occur in the years 1872, 1888, 1889, 1890, 1892, 1893, 1895, 1896, 1897—21 in all. In many years the word meningitis alone is used ; in others the words spinal meningitis and meningitis simplex. Ormerod {Lancet, i. 1895) gives an exceedingly interesting report on 10 fatal cases from this hospital : 4 of them occurred between March and June 1890, at which time epidemic menin- gitis prevailed in the eastern counties. At St. Thomas's, since 1873, cases with the diagnosis of cerebro-spinal meningitis occur in the years 1895 and 1896—7 cases in all. In the wards of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, there were, in 1891, 3 cases diagnosed as cerebro-spinal meningitis; in 1892, 2 cases; in 1893, 1 case. If the simple meningitis of children (posterior basic) is, as Still and others suppose, the spor- adic form of cerebro-spinal fever, the cases are quite common. Barlow and Lee (AUbutt's System) report 110 cases from the Hospital for Sick Children. In the large American cities the sporadic cases