MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 176 ever, are not agreed as to whether the mammary ducts or the lymphatics are tlie usual channels along which the microbes reach the interior of the gland. Certain it is that fissures and abrasions of the nipple are almost invariably met with in patients suffering from mammary abscess. Mr. Sheild states that he has " never seen a case of acute manmiary abscess in a young woman without being able to observe by the aid of a lens breaches of surface in the vicinity of the nipple, by which organisms might readily enter the lacteal channels." The abscess not infrequently follows upon an attack of lymphangitis starting from an inflamed fissure. According to one view, the lymphangitis in addition to spreading from the nipple to the surrounding skin, extends along the intramammary lymphatics into the con- nective tissue stroma of the breast, where it gives rise to what is practically a phlegmonous cellulitis. According to the other view, the organisms first multiply in the infected tissues, and then enter the ducts, along which they spread to give rise to a suppurative catarrhal inflammation of the parenchyma, which soon spreads to the interacinous lymph spaces. No doubt both views are correct; the lymphatics of the breast are so closely related to the parenchyma that infection very readily spreads from the one to the other. Microscopically, the infected lobules are seen to be the seat of a dense, small-celled infiltration which rapidly destroys the epithelium of the acini. These foci undergo purulent softening which infiltrates the adjacent tissue, and by their enlargement and coalescence from larger collections separated at first by the denser tissue of the interlobular stroma. This tissue serves to confine the pus under considerable tension, which in the later stages is diminished by the inflammatory softening and necrosis of the interlobular septa. Ultimately there is formed an irregular, loculated, and diver- ticulated abscess cavity with ragged sloughing walls. The abscess may be confined to one lobe, or the greater part of the gland may be aff'ected from the first, or one lobe involved after another. The resulting abscess is spoken of as intramammary, premammary, or retromam- mary, in accordance with the situation of the pus, whether in the substance of the gland, under the areola, or in the loose areolar tissue between the breast and the pectoral muscle. Clinical Features.—The premammary abscess may take the form of a suppurative cellulitis, secondary to a lymphangitis starting from a fissure or ulcer about the nipple ; or it may result from a suppurative inflammation of one of the large sebaceous glands of the areola; or from a suppurative mastitis originating in one of the superficial lobules of the parenchyma situated under the areola. In all these varieties the skin becomes reddened at an early stage. There is less pain and tension than in the intramammary variety, and the constitutional symptoms are not so severe. If left to itself the abscess soon points and bursts sponta- neously ; occasionally the skin becomes exten- sively undermined and destroyed. The intramammary abscess is a more serious condition. The earliest signs are that the patient complains of a feeling of heat, weight, and tension in a part of the breast which is tender to the touch. The pain, which is greatly aggravated by suckling, becomes more severe and of a lancinating and throbbing character. The patient experiences a sense of chilliness, and there is often a distinct rigor. In severe cases the fever is high and often attended with delirium. The whole breast is seen to be enlarged, and there is a local fulness at the seat of abscess- formation. To the feel this area is firm, brawny, and exquisitely tender, and the local temperature is distinctly elevated. The skin is slightly oedematous, and its veins engorged. At a variable time after the onset of the symptoms, depending upon the depth of the affected area and the severity of the process, an area of softening or of deep-seated elastic fluctuation can be made out by careful palpation of the phlegmonous mass. Fluctuation gradually be- comes more distinct, the skin becomes red and glazed, and, if the abscess be left to nature, pointing and spontaneous evacuation take place. Coincident with the maturation of the abscess, there is generally a diminution in the severity of the pain and constitutional disturbance. Unfortunately, fresh areas of the breast are liable to become infected, leading, after an interval of a few days, to a second abscess, and others may form in rapid succession until the whole organ is involved. If neglected the abscesses burst, and saprophytic organisms become added to the pyogenic cocci originally present. Under these circumstances the patient suff"ers from hectic fever (chronic saprsemia) and exhaustion, consequent upon the copious and persistent discharge from the septic sinuses. The acute retromammary abscess is generally due to the rupture of a deep-seated intro- mammary abscess into the loose areolar tissue between the breast and the pectoral muscle. Much more rarely is the abscess a manifestation of a pysemic condition secondary to puerperal endometritis. The pus collects in large quantity in the loose retromammary tissue. The breast is pushed bodily forwards, and the organ presents a characteristically prominent and almost hemispherical appearance. Compared with the intramammary abscess the pain and constitutional symptoms are generally less pronounced, and the tension is not so great. On palpjation the breast feels as if it were resting upon a water cushion, and fluctuation