MATERNAL IMPRESSIONS 218 nineteenth century opened with the question of maternal impressions still unsolved : there were some who believed implicitly in the power of the mother's mind over her infant's body; there were others whose disbelief was complete; and there were those who took an intermediate position, and gave a partial adhesion to the theory, endeavouring to reconcile the traditional belief with the spirit of modern scientific inquiry. Those who held the intermediate position ex- plained the results, not by an immediate mental effect, but by pressure brought to bear upon the foetus through uterine contractions ; they also were forced in some cases to admit a maternal or foetal predisposing cause which made it possible for an impression to be effective. It is, however, a striking fact, that during the nineteenth century the teratologists—those who have scientifically investigated the causes of monstrosities and foetal morbid states—have almost without exception rejected the theory of maternal impressions; alongside of this we have to take notice of the extraordinary rejuvenation of the ancient doctrine among the obstetricians of the United States of America. So that it must be said that the nineteenth, like the eighteenth century, has closed with the subject of maternal impressions still a debated, if not perhaps a debatable one. Illustrative Cases.—The following cases, wliich were all brought under the notice of the writer, will serve as instances of some of the forms that the belief in maternal impressions may take. There is the case of the nervous woman who had been frightened during the early months of her pregnancy by a friend who had thrown a frog at her; she gave birth to an anencephalic foetus; and again in the next pregnancy the result was an anencephalic infant—the anencepiialic monstrosity being, it is asserted, distinctly frog-like. There is the case of the two-and-a-half months' pregnant woman importuned by a deaf and dumb pedlar ; she refused to buy any of his wares, whereupon he followed her and struck her on the back; she brought forth a child who was and is deaf and dumb, although, it is added, she had not anticipated any harm to her infant. There is the case of the child born minus the little, ring, and middle fingers of the left hand ; the mother when about three months pregnant had seen another of her children A'ery nearly amputate the little, ring, and middle fingers of his left hand while playing with a wood-chopper. There is the case of the mother who had been much impressed during her pregnancy |by the story of the birth of an infant about whose sex thei'c was some doubt; she herself gave birth to a child suffering from ectopia vesicae and epispadias. There is, finally, the case of a woman who during her pregnancy was much alarmed by being told that she had grave heart disease; her child has turned out to be an imbecile. The list of examples might be pro- longed, for hairy nsevus, hare-lip, exomphalos, congenital blindness, and even united twins, have all been ascribed to maternal impressions; but the recital of these stories can hardly serve any useful purpose. Estimate of the present Position of the Maternal Impressions Controversy.—It may well be said about this theory that it is wonderful alike in its wide extension in time and space, and in its firm hold upon the minds of both profession and laity. To those medical men who are opposed to it, it has shown itself most disappointingly vital; to those who have wished to demonstrate its truth it has been most strikingly destitute of scientific proof. In its support is a marvel- lous mass of evidence of the post hoc ergo propter hoc kind ; arrayed against it are the scientific theories of biology which have been gradually and laboriously built up, more especially in the century which has closed. To the student of antenatal pathology the theory of maternal impressions has been a misfortune and a hin- drance. Many instructive cases of foetal disease and deformity have been practically lost to science, the observer having been so occupied in tracing a resemblance to some bird, beast, or fish, as to have been quite blind to or for- getful of the evident and manifest anatomical and pathological details of the specimen. In this sense the theory has been the grave in which a great deal of foetal pathology has been buried. It has nearly always happened that when the maternal-impression idea has been given prominence, exact accounts of anatomical dissections have been markedly absent. In this way its influence upon scientific medicine has been a maleficent one. But, it may be said, this retarding effect upon the progress of antenatal pathology may be admitted, and yet there may be truth in the theory, some small degree of truth at least. Well, in order to centralise our knowledge on this point let us discuss the matter under two headings or questions. First, does a definite impression upon a pregnant woman's mind often or ever cause a defect in the foetus closely re- sembling the thing producing the impression? and, second, has the state of the mother's mind during gestation any effect upon her unborn infant's development 1 The first question must, in the writer's opinion, be answered in the negative. The close scrutiny of the cases which have been adduced as proofs of the potency of maternal impressions shows them to have been accidental coincidences and not the results of the alleged cause. Their great number is nothing in favour of the view, for, however many they are, they are still far fewer than the cases in which no effect followed the incidence of an impression. Incidentally, I may remark that I have had in my own practice several cases which seemed to contain