45 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS throughout his illness. Thus there may be severe neuralgia, with tender points on pressure. This may be anywhere, e.g. intercostal, sciatic, etc., and is sometimes most obstinate. Or the muscles are painful or tender to touch and on movement. These myalgic manifestations are often vaguely described as rheumatic; so, too, are articular pains which are common enough. To this category may be assigned a condition of extreme pain—melalgia—occurring about the knee and extending over the leg, in advanced stages of the disease. Nevertheless, every pain and ache occurring through so prolonged an ill- ness must not be attributed essentially to the tuberculous affection. The special senses may be disturbed variously. Reference has already been made to nose and eye (optic neuritis, choroidal tubercle). The ear is often enough attacked (otitis media), doubtless by extension through the Eustachian tube, as in coughing. The tubercle bacillus is sometimes—not always —determinable in the discharge. The mental condition of the patient varies much. The classical attitude of extreme hope- fulness—spes phthisica—is far from being always in evidence. It is more frequent in acute varieties, where the patient throughout dreams of nothing but recovery, and fondly details, perhaps on the day of his death, plans for future work or enjoyment. Such extreme hopefulness is anything but universal, and would seem, in considerable part at least, an expression of the quality of nerve tissue of the individual affected —and this may explain the comparatively rapid progress of disease—rather than an attribute of the disease itself. For contrariwise, it must be admitted that a large proportion of patients become depressed and little interested in life. This mental attitude is more definitely deter- mined in what is described as phthisical insanity. The subjects tend to be unsettled, irritable, and unsocial. Reticent and even silent, they cease to manifest interest in things around them. Frequently they come to evince symptoms of suspicion of persons and actions, refusing food and even threatening to commit suicide. In judging of cases, it must be borne in mind that insane patients have a special proneness to be- come phthisical—a fact referable in part to their lowered nutrition, and in considerable part to the close, badly ventilated, and probably infected rooms which they may have to occupy. In this respect asylums have improved much within recent times, and there has been a corresponding diminution in the frequency of deaths from tuberculosis. There still remains much to be desired. {g) Locomotory.—Reference has been made more than once to the undue irritability and wasting of muscles. There remain to be men- tioned tuberculous affections of bones and joints. These are not very infrequent, more particularly in relation to the sternum, costal cartilages, ribs. and vertebrte. In connection with these, carious conditions, with the formation of chronic ab- scesses, occur. These may form considerable projections from the surface of the thoracic wall. The carriage of the bacillus is effected by the blood-stream, or more directly by lymphatic channels from affected pleura or lung. (h) Integumentary.—The skin and cutaneous appendages suffer in a variety of ways. The skin has frequently, especially in acuter condi- tions, a delicate translucency, which reveals capillary blushing readily (malar flush). In many cases it remains of coarser texture, and the complexion is greyish, muddy, sallow. Brownish coloration of the skin, either patchy or more general, is common {chloasma phthisi- corum). Still more marked pigmentation of fawn colour occurs in considerable areas on the back, chest, and abdomen. This is accompanied by fine scaliness {pityriasis versicolor). If the scales be removed and examined microscopically, the mycelium and spores of the mkrosporon furfur are visible. This parasitic affection, although not limited to tuberculosis, occurs more frequently here than in other conditions. Its appearance means lowered vitality and want of cleanliness in respect of the skin. When the skin is properly bathed and groomed, and sweating prevented or minimised, the con- dition is not likely to appear. Apart from parasitic invasion, the skin frequently presents a harsh, dry surface, with tendency to coarser desquamation (pityriasis tabescentium). At other times the skin is conspicuously oily {seboi'rhoea). All these states indicate the desirability of proper skin toilet. A satisfactory toilet is the more necessary in view of the wholesale neglect of the skin as a heat-regulating mechanism. The heaping on of clothing and breast-protectors commonly seen—eight, ten, twelve layers—is unphysiological as well as dirty. The skin does not get a chance. (Edema from circulatory failure, and phlegmasia from thrombosis, have been referred to already. Tuberculous tvarts and sores are occasionally found. They are in rare instances the starting of the process. They may occur from post- mortem or operation injury or by accident, as by the cut from the broken glass of a sputum bottle. Lupus is present sometimes. In re- lation to the large number of cases of pulmo- nary tuberculosis its frequency is small. The carriage of the bacilli is in these cases directly from without. Its common distribution about the nose and face is highly suggestive of causa- tion through the use of infected handkerchiefs and towels or the application of a dirty finger. The hair tends to get limp, thin, and in some cases brittle. This is not always so. Often the patient is unusually hairy, the skin of the trunk being covered by a soft, downy coating. Rapid development of greyness has been noted. The nails may similarly assume an unhealthy aspect.