88 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PARASITIC AFFECTIONS while the treatment is still very unsatisfactory even in the direction of prophylaxis. Actinomycosis of Lnngs.—The reader is re- ferred to vol. i. p. 52 for a full description of actinomycosis. It is only necessary here to refer to the special pulmonary lesions which the micro-organism may cause. There may be (1) little excepting acute bronchitis ; there may be (2) small nodules resembling miliary tubercu- losis in appearance and distribution; or there may be (3) larger or smaller areas of lung in- volved, forming caseous areas or abscesses vary- ing in size, with much interstitial change in the neighbouring lung tissue. The exact course of the disease in the third type of cases will depend largely on the presence and virulence of adventitious pyogenic organisms. The clinical features will vary greatly; but, as a rule, the disease runs a chronic course, and, so far as the lung is concerned, suggests pulmonary tuberculosis. The treatment is on general lines ; iodoform insufflations, and potassium iodide internally, have been recommended, and are, at least, worthy of trial. Lunula,.—The white, more opaque, semi- lunar part of the nail near the root; also any structure having this shape and appearance, e.g. the lunulpe of the valves of the heart. Lupanme. See Lupinus. Luperine.—A mixture, said to contain gentian, calumba, and quassia, recommended in cases of dipsomania for the purpose of pro- ducing aversion to alcoholic drinks. Lupinidine. See Lupinus. Lupinine. Lupinus. LupinOSiS. See also Lathyrism ; Lupi- nus; Liver, Diseases of (Aciite Yellou) Atr-oph?/, Diagnosis from Lupinosis) ; and Toxicoi.ogy {Vegetable Foods, Vetch).—A morbid state due to the eating of certain lupines, which, when it affects sheep, shows itself by jaundice, delirium, hfemorrhages, and acute yellow atrophy of the liver; it may be due not so much to the lupines themselves as to certain fungi growing upon them, or to a toxic principle (lupinotoxin) de- veloped in them under special circumstances ; it is often fatal; and the name is sometimes used as a synonym of lathyrism (q.v.). Lupinus.—A genus of the Natural Order of the LeguminosEB, containing lupinus albus, I. angustifolius, I. luteus, I. sativus, etc.; yellow lupine contains a crystallisable alkaloid, hipinine (C21H4QN2O2), and white lupine an uncrystal- lisable one. Lupinidine is a liquid alkaloid (CgHjgN) got from /. luteus; and lupanine, also a liquid alkaloid (C15H25N2O is got from I, angustifolius. Lupoid. — Resembling lupus {q.v.), e.g. lupoid ulcer of rectum {see Rectum, Diseases OF—Lupoid Ulceration of Anus and Rectum). Lupuiinum. See Hops. Lupuius. See Hops. Lupus. See Alopecia {Varieties and Associations); Larynx, Chronic Infective Dis- eases {Lupus of Larynx); Lung, Tuberculosis OF {Complications, Integ%mnentary); Lupus Ery- thematosus ; Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases {Lupus); Palate {Diseases, Lupus); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Lupus); Skin, Tuberculosis of {Lupus); Radium ; X-Rays {Treatmejit of Lupus). Lupus Erythematosus. Definition ...... 88 Description ...... 89 Sebaceous Type. Erythematous Type. Telangiectic Type. Etiology and Histology ... 90 Prognosis ...... 90 Diagnosis 90 Treatment . . . . . .91 Lupus erythematosus is a chronic inflammatory disease of the skin which differs from the majority of similar diseases by its almost in- variable termination in a scar. It was first described by Biett, in 1828, under the name of erythema centrifugum ; then by Hebra, in 1845, as seborrhoea congestiva; and lastly by Cazenove, in 1851, who applied to it the name which it has since borne. Unna has recently suggested the name of ulerythema centrifugum {ovXrj, a scar), but although un- doubtedly more descriptive than any of the others, it has not succeeded in disestablishing the common and familiar name. The local incidence of the disease varies very much, it being commoner in the colder countries, such as Norway and Scotland, than in warmer ones such as Italy and France. It occurs most frequently in the female sex, in the proportion of 2 to 1, and although cases have been reported in the young and old, the vast majority of cases occur in adults. In the statistics of the skin department of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, it stands as follows:—Out of 4500 consecutive cases, lupus erythematosus: females, 29; males, 15; average age, 32. The head and the hands are the region of the body which are specially affected, the most common situations being the bridge of the nose and the cheeks, from which distribution has arisen the name of "butterfly lupus"—the disease on the nose forming the body, and that on the cheeks the wings of the insect. The order of frequency in which other parts are attacked is, according to Kaposi, the alse nasi.