492 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE more distally situated before those more proxi- mal. When the disease has invaded the thighs this gives to them " the bottle-shaped appear- ance." As the disease advances the small muscles of the hand are next to be affected, giving rise to the typical " claw hand," the atrophy later extending to the flexors and ex- tensors of the wrist. Even when the legs below the knee are atrophied to an extreme degree, it is remarkable how well the patients get about, and are even able to ride a bicycle for miles. In addition to muscular atrophy, there is very marked vasomotor change in the condition of the limbs, the feet being always blue and cold. Alteration of sensation has also been described, and pain has been present in some cases. Muscular tremor is present in some muscles. The knee-jerks are long pre- served, and even when the atrophy below the knee has become extreme, they are still obtain- able. The disease is very slowly progressive, although in a child in whom the first symptoms began after measles it was only eighteen months before the hands began to show signs of atrophy, and by that time the atrophy below the knee was extreme. The electrical excitability of the muscle is greatly diminished, so that often no reaction can be obtained either to faradism or galvanism of ordinary strength. Reaction of degeneration may be present. Prognosis and Course.—The course of the dis- ease is extremely slow, and death only results from some pulmonary or other complications. Pathology.—The pathology of this disease is still uncertain. The changes,that have been de- scribed are an increase of the interstitial tissue in the peripheral nerves, and a similar condition in the postero-median columns of the spinal cord. All observers are agreed that, apart from the changes of the posterior columns, no change can be found in the spinal cord or in the cells of the anterior horn. The distribution of the disease, affecting as it does the periphery of the limbs, strongly suggests a nervous lesion, and the occurrence of fibrillation, the alteration of sensation, and the occasional presence of the reaction of degeneration all point to the same direction. The occurrence of the disease in families indicates that there is a congenital tendency to premature failure in the lower neurone, and those which are longest seem most prone to suffer. That severe affections of the nervous system sometimes follow measles is well recognised, and that it should produce this particular form of disease in certain families and individuals in whom there is already possibly some congenital tendency to its development, is easily understood. - 11. An Hereditary Form op Progressive Muscular Atrophy in Young Children.—The disease here described has only of late years obtained general recognition. The cause of the disease is unknown; but it often affects many members of a family, and those independ- ently of sex. The age at which the disease first makes its appearance is about the tenth month of life; other cases have developed some- what later. There is, however, reason to be- lieve that the disease sometimes makes its appearance shortly after birth, and runs a pro- gressive course in the first few months of life. Symptoms.—An apparently healthy and in- telligent child who has made normal progress till the tenth month of life begins without any sudden onset or known cause to lose power first in the muscles about the pelvis, and then in the muscles of the back, so that the child who has been able to sit up in its cot is no longer able to do so. The disease pursues a progressive course—the shoulders, the thighs, the upper arm, the forearm, and feet. No special group of muscles is affected, the wasting being general. Fibrillary twitchings of the muscles may be present in some cases. The limbs are wasted and lie absolutely flaccid. On electrical examination the reaction of degenera- tion is often present. The deep reflexes, and sometimes the superficial, are abolished. There is no disturbance of sensation, and the sphinc- ters act normally. The mental condition re- mains unimpaired throughout the whole course of the disease. Bulbar symptoms sometimes make their appearance, and from these the child may die ; but since the intercostal muscles are often affected some pulmonary complication generally causes death. The disease usually runs its course in from three to four years. Pathological Anatomy. —■ The brain, cere- bellum, cranial nerves and their nuclei are normal. In the medulla and spinal cord atrophy of the cells of the anterior horn is a marked feature. Changes are found in the anterior roots, and also in the peripheral nerves; changes are also present to a slighter degree in the lateral columns of the cord. The muscles are degenerate, some fibres having undergone simple atrophy, others waxy degeneration, and others again granular degeneration. Hyper- trophied muscle fibres exist at certain points, and there is an increased amount of connective tissue and fat. Diagnosis.—^Considering the child's age the disease is most likely to be mistaken for rickets ; the child becomes flabby, loses its power of sitting up, and lies more or less helpless in its cot. The absence of all signs of rickets, the diminished excitability of the muscles of the leg, the absence of the knee-jerks, and the absence of tenderness, all point to some nervous affection. From an early form of myopathy the disease will be distinguished by its more rapid course, the absence of all electrical change, and also by the fact that the atrophy is general. Prognosis.—The disease is steadily progres- sive, and usually runs its course in from three to four years.