MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 328 those of tertian fever. An inverse type of temperature is not uncommon, in which the morning record is highest. The Pulse.—At the onset it may be slow, or, at any rate, not increased in frequency, and even when the temperature is as high as Chart II.—A remittent type of temperature. 103° the pulse may not be more than 85 or 90. Variations in the pulse-rate during the day are common, and at one visit the patient may have a rapid, irregular pulse of 120, and six or eight hours later it may be 90 and regular. Even as late as the sixteenth day of the disease, with a temperature of 104°, I have known the highest range of the pulse to be from 64 to 72. In a chronic case on the fifty-ninth day the pulse was 64. The Blood.—Leucocytosis was present in all of our cases. In four the first blood count was made on the third day, and the leucocytosis was 25,900, 14,500, 40,800, and 32,000 per cm. The first blood count was made on the fourth day in four cases, and the leucocytosis was 26,240, 31,800, 19,300, and 7600 per cm. In only four cases did the leucocytes exceed 40,000 per cm., and the maximum count was on the ninth day in a fatal case 47,000 per cm. The leucocytosis persists even in the most pro- tracted cases. In a lad who died in the twelfth week of the disease the leucocytes were 23,000 per cm. shortly before death. As a rule there was no special reduction in the red blood corpuscles. In one case a moderate anaemia developed, and in the fifth week the red corpuscles were only 3,100,000 per cm. In one case the diplococcus intracellularis was isolated from the blood during life. Skin Lesions. — Herpes is as common in cerebro-spinal meningitis as in pneumonia, perhaps more so. It usually occurs on the lips or nostrils and may appear at the very onset. A diffuse erythema is not infrequent and may be seen about the chest or abdomen, more commonly about the joints. A petechial rash, which was so common in the early epidemics that the disease had the name of spotted fever, was present in more than one- third of our cases. It is common on the extensor surfaces, over the lower part of the abdomen, and about the joints. Respiratory Symptoms.—An acute coryza may occur at the onset. A mucous discharge from the nostrils is not uncommon, and in a number of cases the diplococcus has been found. The breathing may be slow and laboured or sigh- ing, or, when pneumonia is present, hurried. Cheyne-Stokes breathing is frequently observed. The most serious pulmonary complication is pneu- monia, which in many epidemics has been noted with great frequency. Possibly, as Councilman states, many of these cases have been the ordinary meningitis associated with croupous pneumonia. In the Boston epidemic there were very few cases of pneumonia. In my series of twenty- three cases there were three cases of pneumonia. In one of them the widespread consolidation in the lower lobe and the tubular breathing, which we thought to be due to pneumonia, was, in reality, extensive collapse of the lung. Digestive System.—Nausea and vomiting are common symptoms of the onset, and vomiting may be one of the most distressing features throughout. The bowels as a rule are consti- pated. With the progress of the disease in the more chronic cases the abdomen becomes much flattened or even scaphoid. The spleen is not constantly enlarged, but in many instances the edge may be readily felt.