457 MOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH Tumours of the lips are not of very common occurrence if we except epithelium of the lower lip. They may be gi'ouped as follows :— (1) Vascular Tumours. — Nsevi of the lips occur rather commonly among young children. They may be simply capillary, limited quite to the surface of the mucous membrane, or they may be cavernous, affecting the lip quite deeply. The latter are of some interest because a con- siderable amount of the lip may require removal. (2) Connective Tissue Tumours.—These con- sist of lipomata, fibromata, myxomata, and sar- comata, and do not differ from similar growths elsewhere. (3) Glandular tumours consist of cysts origin- ating in some of the labial glands; adenomata originating in similar glands, forming solid masses of glandular tissue, and a mixed tumour similar to the well-known parotid tumour con- taining both glandular tissue, myxomatous tissue, and cartilaginous tissue. (4) Epithelioma of the Lips. — This disease nearly always occurs in the lower lip, and as a rule in men. It originates at the muco-cutaneous line, and may occur at any point along the lower lip. It has a special tendency to occur at a spot where the pipe is habitually held ; indeed, this agency is undoubtedly the chief cause. It does occur occasionally in non-smokers, and in women, although in one case described the woman was a smoker. The disease seems, as regards malig- nancy, to stand in an intermediate position be- tween epithelioma of the skin of the face and of the tongue. The disease commences as a small overgrowth of epithelium, and is generally con- sidered by the patient to be a wart, and conse- quently advice is often not sought for until the disease has advanced considerably. After a time the epithelium becomes abraided, and there is a raw surface which, being constantly moist and constantly soiled, shows considerable secondary inflammatory disturbance. As regards treat- ment, complete removal of the growth is indi- cated as soon as its nature is recognised. In the early stages it can be most completely removed by excising a V-shaped piece of lip, keeping well clear of the growth on each side. Quite a large piece of the lip can be removed in this way with scarcely any deformity. In advanced cases a plastic operation may be necessary. Deformities of the Lips.—These fall into two main groups :— (1) Stricture of the Mouth.—This, of course, is a narrowing of the oral orifice, and may be the result of ulceration at the angles of the mouth, and as the result of lupus, syphilis, etc. It may follow marked loss of substance of the lips, as after burns, surgical operations, cancrum oris, etc. Together with the loss of substance the lips may be adherent to the jaws, in which case the inconvenience and deformity are very great. (2) Ectropion of the Lips.—This may be caused by enlargement of the mucous portion of the lip as in congenital hypertrophy, or it may be due to cicatricial contraction of the skin in the neighbourhood of the lip. 2. Diseases op the Cheeks.—There are not many points of special interest in the surgery of the cheeks. All the inflammatory and special diseases met with in the lips may occur in the cheeks. As regards the tumours of the cheeks, there is a special interest attached to lipomata, inasmuch as they may develop in the lobule of fat at the anterior border of the masseter known as the pad of Bichat. A fact not usually known is the presence of small lymphatic glands in the tissues of the cheek generally below a horizontal line drawn through the mouth. One is often found close to the facial artery just over the buccinator muscle. In inflammatory lesions of the cheek the small glands become enlarged and are then quite evident. The author has on several occasions found such swellings, and has proved their lymphatic glandular nature. Epithelioma may occur, either originating in the skin of the cheek or in the mucous membrane. A rare growth met with in the cheek is one originating in the socia parotidis. 3. Diseases of the Gums.—There is a rather rare and curious affection known as hypertrophy of the gums. It occurs in children, generally appearing within the first year of life. The appearance is a very remarkable one. The gums are everywhere gradually hypertrophied, forming projecting masses which may almost completely hide the teeth; at first the masses being the natural colour of the gums, but later on ulceration occurs, and septic changes produce ulceration and gradual destruction of some of the masses. On careful examination it will be found that this condition is associated with an enlargement of the jaws, especially the alveolar processes, and as a rule the patients are mentally very defective. Occasionally there is a hyper- trophy of the gums produced by the mechanical irritation of badly-fitting artificial teeth. The treatment of hypertrophy of the gums consists in a free removal of the soft tissues, together with the portion of alveolus to which they are attached. Unless some of the bone is removed the hypertrophy nearly always reforms. In the case of the hypertrophy from mechanical irrita- tion the badly-fitting teeth must be rectified and the hypertrophied portion excised with a knife. Vascidar growths are sometimes met with in the gums, especially in the region of the incisor teeth. They seem to be composed of cavernous tissue, and are evidently a form of nfevi. They cause considerable trouble because they bleed freely when the tooth-brush is used, and if not removed they may grow to some considerable size, and may form a nasty ulcerating mass. Papilloma of the Gums.—Occasionally rather