LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 49 often. In some cases, especially those under open-air treatment, such aberrations of tem- perature may be quite wanting. In order to precise determination the temperature should be taken for some days every three hours or oftener. It is most misleading to rest content with one or two observations daily. {d) Weight.—The relation of weight to height and age is of much moment. Definite loss of weight is significant. Reliance must not be placed on a single observation or vagvie im- pression as to loss of weight. The patient's weight should be recorded with exactness from week to week. (e) The patient's history.—This should include the history of the patient in a wide sense. It is not merely a matter of family history as generally understood—e.g. Has his father or mother or brother died of consumption? Granted that this or that relative has died of tuberculosis, the more important issue is, how far the patient has been subjected to the same conditions of life. Has he been exposed to risk of infection from close contact either with the said relative or other consumptive person, as by occupation of the same house, rooms, office, or workshop % Does his mode of life or calling entail undue devitalisation % (/) State of other organs.—This may afford corroborative evidence of the first moment. It is therefore desirable that the other viscera be examined with care. It is insufficient to confine ourselves to the lungs. The diagnosis, and, as we shall see, the prognosis, implies a thorough review of the whole system. Specialism, in the narrow sense of the term, is here fatal. While all organs should be looked to, the mucous membrane of throat (including palate, fauces, and larynx) deserve special care. A laryngoscopic examination should form part of the routine examination in most cases. Short of grosser changes (e.g. ulceration), undue pallor (e.g. palatal pallor), flaccidity, swelling of mucous membranes, are all significant. (g) Rontgen-ray illumination. — Examination by means of Rontgen rays may afford valuable corroborative evidence. Especially is this true in relation to early stages of the disease. Even when physical signs in the ordinary sense are slight—some would say when they are wanting —involvement of lung may be testified to by the shadow on the screen or the radiograph. In estimating the diagnostic value of the Rontgen rays, much depends necessarily on the relative skill of observers in the use of different methods. It is astounding how apparently obvious physical signs may be passed over by good observers. It is therefore difficult to compare rigidly the results determined by the earlier physical methods and those obtain- able by the Rontgen-ray method. None the less is it true that Rontgen-ray illumination affords important aid. For definitely recording VOL. VI the amount of opacity, the radiograph is most serviceable. The simple screen has advantages in other directions. While showing the shadow sufficiently well, it reveals insufficiency of diaphragmatic movement on one or other side. Thus in early pulmonary tuberculosis the dia- phragm frequently stands unduly high and its excursion is limited. (3) Detection of the Tubercle Bacillus.—This may be direct or indirect. The presence of the tubercle bacillus itself affords absolute proof of the existence of tuberculosis. It is not, however, determinable in all cases, which other evidence may prove to be of tuberculous character. In other words, while a positive examination for bacilli is certain, a negative result does not necessarily exclude tuberculosis. During the examination for bacilli fibrous tissue may be sought for. Where the examination has been negative, confirmation of the evidence should be sought in repeated examinations. In such cases, and in those where expectoration or other discharge may not be available, the tuberculin test may be advantageously applied. For that reason the two methods of determina- tion will be considered at this stage. With reference to such procedure it should be kept clearly in view that therein the diagnosis of the esse7itial etiological factor is alone involved. The diagnosis of the patient's disease is not therefore completed; indeed, refinement of diagnosis with a view to a sufficient prognosis only commences at this point. The variety of clinical type and course is immense. A full diagnosis must still rest on a careful considera- tion of symptomatology, physical signs, and other factors. {a) Determination of Tubercle Bacillus.—The procedure has been considered (p. 30). The bacillus is usually sought in the sputum. When actual sputum is not obtainable it may be worth while to examine post-nasal or laryngeal discharge: a sample of this may readily be obtained by means of a soft brush. With the discovery of tubercle bacilli all doubt as to the essential nature of the case is removed. {b) Determination of Fibrous Tissue.—It is sometimes suggested that the discovery of fibrous tissue in the expectoration is of as great, if not greater, value. This is a mistake. The presence of fibrous tissue points to dis- integrative changes. It is not exclusively present in tuberculosis (p. 31). Indirectly it affords corroborative proof of the activity of the tubercle bacillus. Its discovery helps to refine diagnosis in respect of stage of the disease. (c) Tuberculin Test.—The use of tuberculin in diagnosis has been widely adopted by veterinary practitioners, and the results have been emi- nently satisfactory. In relation to the human subject there has been an undue timidity in its use. Since its introduction the writer has made 4