169 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF milk glands. Their enlargement during preg- nancy gives rise to distinct elevations upon the surface. Scattered throughout the corium of the nipple and areola are bundles of non-striped muscular fibres, many of which occupy the adventitious coats of the lactiferous ducts, some interlacing horizontally, others running longi- tudinally. In the loose tissue under the areola the milk ducts are ampuUated to form the lactiferous sinuses. The walls of the main ducts when empty are thrown into folds which in transverse section are apt to be mistaken for papillae. At, and in remains a single layer; the milk lobules are not produced by fatty disintegration of successive generations of cells, but by the vital activity of the protoplasm of the single layer. The upper and inner hemisphere of the breast receives its blood-supph/ from the second, third, and fourth perforating branches of the internal mammary artery, the lower and outer hemi- sphere from the long thoracic which gives off a branch of considerable size which winds round the lower border of the pectoi-alis major and terminates at the nipple. The superficial veiiis of the mamma are relatively large, and open Fig. 2.—Shows the structure of an atropliied and fibrous corpus mammfe of a woman, set. 58, whose breast was removed for a small carcinoma, a, Compact interlobulur fibrous tissue; b, fat cells; c, connective-tissue corpuscles; d, atrophied terminal ducts, filled with small epithelial cells. The acini have disappeared, but the intralobular capillary network («) remains. the neighbourhood of, their orifices the ducts are lined by a stratified epithelium, which soon gives place to a single layer of columnar epi- thelium placed upon a nucleated basement membrane. The acini are lined by a single layer of cubical or low columnar cells. Accord- ing to Bender, a layer of non-striped muscle intervenes between the epithelium and the basement membrane both of the ducts and acini. The interacinous connective tissue is more delicate and cellular than the perilobular, which encircles the ultimate lobules of the parenchyma. In the interlobular connective tissue are numerous fat lobules. During lactation the epithelium of the acini into the external jugular, the cephalic and the axillary veins. Around the areola is a venous circle which receives veins from the nipple and areola. The 7ierves which supply the gland are the perforating terminal branches of the fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal nerves, while the skin over the organ is supplied partly by the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus and partly by the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the second to the sixth intercostal nerves. The writer has frequently found Pacinian corpuscles within the substance of the breast. The lymphatic system of the mamma demands