LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 30 may be short, dry, hacking, harsh, noisy, paroxysmal, accompanied by little or much discharge. It is hardly possible to interpret exactly the various types of cough in relation to various types or stages of disease. Cough is often enough associated with vomiting—a distressing- incident, which, if repeated, necessarily interferes with the patient's nutrition. It seems likely that the associated vomiting is to be explained by an extension of nerve storm through the vagus. Expectoration. — All expectoration does not become sputum. In other words, in place of spitting, some patients swallow the discharge. This is commonly the case with children, and is frequent enough among delicate adults. The procedure is both dirty and dangerous. Further, all sputvim is not expectoration. Along with the discharge proper, there is mixed saliva, and frequently enough food-stuiTs, either from the stomach or mouth. The discharge is commonly effected by coughing. With some persons the discharge proceeds more quietly, welling up rather than coughed up. The quantity and character of the discharge vary greatly. (a) Quantity.—There may be none at all. This may be due to two causes. Either the patient swallows it or none is forthcoming, as in acute miliary tuberculosis. The quantity may range from a mere trace up to many ounces— it may be a pint or more—in the twenty-four hours. The mere amount of discharge has no certain relation to the gravity of disease. Thus in some acute varieties of disease, there may be little, if any. In other more chronic conditions, the expectoration may be considerable. None the less is it true that the continuous discharge of large quantities of expectoration is likely to be accompanied by loss of body-weight. (J)) Naked-eye Appearances. — The character of the discharge varies endlessly. It may be largely mucous, or may be frothy, or more dense and consistent or puriform. As it be- comes more compact, it tends to sink in water. It may be formless or more definitely rounded (nummiform). Such nummular sputum prob- ably comes from a vomica, or, it may be, a bronchiectatic cavity. In other instances it may not be easy to fix certainly the origin of the discharge. In a smaller number of cases, chalky concretions (lung calculi) are discharged from time to time. These are of varying size and hardness. They have their origin in caseat- ing foci, which have become calcareous through the deposition of phosphates and carbonates of calcium. They may occur from time to time in the same patient, and then cease altogether. The colour of the expectoration is various. It may be white, greyish, yellowish-grey, yellow; or through admixture with blood, it may be reddish. The admixture with blood may be partial, in which case the discharge is merely streaked or spotted with red ; or the blood may be intimately mixed, in which case the discharge may be reddish-brown or of rusty hue. In other cases the expectoration may be largely made up of blood {vide "Haemoptysis") The cause of the colour is of some interest. The red colour is easily explained where blood is present. In other cases the colour is probably due to the presence of micro-organisms. Thus the greenish colour would seem due to the bacillus pyocya- neus, while the yellowish tint has been traced to the bacillus aureus and squamosus, sarcina lutea, and others. The smell of tuberculous expectoration is mawkish, with a faintly aromatic character, recalling the odour of tuberculin. When the sputum is extracted and concentrated, this odour becomes more definite. (c) Microscopic Appearances.—The expectora- tion contains cell elements and other debris from the respiratory tract and lungs, and a variety of micro-organisms, more especially the tubercle bacillus. It need hardly be said that from the diagnostic point of view the last named is of first moment. It may be determinable when symptoms and physical signs are slight. Determination of Tubercle Bacillus.—One of the readiest clinical methods for this purpose is Gabbett's modification of the Ziehl-Neelsen method. The procedure is as follows : — Place with a needle a small quantity of sputum on a cover-glass, and press a second cover-glass gently over it so as to spread the sputum as a thin film. Separate the cover- glasses by sliding them apart, and lay them (sputum upwards) on a sheet of white paper. Allow the cover-glasses to dry, or gently heat them, and then, with the forceps, pass them three times slowly through the flame of a spirit lamp (to coagulate the film), taking care not to char the film. Drop the cover-glass (sputum downwards) into a watch-glass containing fuchsin solution which has been heated gently until it steams. After tivo minutes rinse cover-glass in water, and transfer to methyl blue solution for one minute, and thereafter rinse in water. If the film is quite blue, it may be mounted; but if red colour remains, replace cover-glass in methyl blue for a moment. When the film is blue, dry the upper surface of cover-glass, and mount in Farrant's medium or glycerine. If balsam be used, the blue film must be dried before mounting. The tubercle bacilli are stained red ; all other bacilli, cells, etc., are stained blue. The solutions used are as follows :— I. Fuchsin .... 1 part. 5 per cent solution of carbolic acid in distilled water . 100 parts. Absolute alcohol . . .10 parts. II. Methyl blue ... 1 part. 25 per cent solution of sul- phuric acid in distilled water . . . .100 parts.