47 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS arrested. Conversely, a continuance of these, or a return thereto after cure has been effected, is most prejudicial. A reawakening of the old process is likely to follow, and this may go rapidly ahead. This is the great difficulty in relation to the treatment of pulmonary tubercu- losis among the working-classes. It is especially on this account that the writer suggested the establishment of tuberculous colonies, where for long periods treatment on outdoor lines might be continued, the patient engaging in gardening or agricultural pursuits as strength permitted. Clinical Varieties.—The recognition of the more evident differences in course and progress gives sanction to the following grouping of cases from the clinical point of view—viz. 1. Acute ; 2. Subacute ; 3. Chronic. In admitting the division as convenient for working purposes, we must not lose sight of the fact that the limits are far from exact. As we have seen, the acute and subacute may become chronic. The subacute and chronic may, in turn, become acute. There is endless possibility of variation in individual cases. It may be serviceable to add a few words of description regarding each group. 1. Acute.^—This includes especially— (a) Acute Miliary Tuberculosis, in which there is a widespread dissemination of tubercle throughout the lung, either alone or as part of a general miliary tuberculosis. The dissemina- tion occurs by way of the blood-channels. The onset is commonly acute, but may be subacute. The condition may supervene as an exacerbation in the course of a chronic tubercu- losis. Of thoracic symptoms dyspnoea is con- spicuous. Respirations may amount to 37-70 per minute. Cyanosis is probably evident as the process advances. There may be nothing- remarkable about the cough, and expectoration is often absent. Even if sputum be obtainable, the tubercle bacillus is usually not determinable. Physical signs are poorly marked in proportion to the amount of systemic disturbance (vide p. 36). Constitutional phenomena are marked. The appearances may simulate those of enteric fever. Temperature runs high—102°-104° F.—■ and is of more or less continued type, subject to remissions. Sometimes there is no apparent pyrexia. The pulse is rapid and soft. Intense emaciation and enfeeblement quickly supervene. The progress towards death is usually swift. Sometimes evidence of a wider dissemination of tubercle may be present (tubercle meningitis, tubercle in choroid, tubercle bacilli in blood). (b) Lobular or Broncho-pneumonic Tubercu- losis, in which the dissemination is widespread ^ The term galloping consumption has been applied to pulmonary tuberculosis, which runs an acute course. In this sense it may be used as synonymous with acute, as here described. It has been limited by some to the broncho-pneumonic variety (q.v.), by others to acute miliary tuberculosis (q.v.). and patchy. The scattered foci are either caseous or indurated. The dissemination results from aspiration of tuberculous material, probably from an older area of softening. Hence, though apparently an acute process from the first, it is frequently an exacerbation of an older process, which may have escaped recognition. Acute dissemination may have been subsequent to an acute illness (influenza, the puerperium), which roused the latent process to activity. The clinical course is commonly acute and rapid. Local manifestations are wont to be more conspicuous than in the last variety. The sputum, which may be abundant, is muco- purulent or purulent, and contains tubercle bacilli and elastic tissue. Physical signs corre- spond with the lobular distribution. Constitu- tional phenomena are also pronounced. Pyrexia is marked, and now more definitely remittent in type. The circulation is soon gravely preju- diced, and the patient tends to sink with toxic symptoms. The patient may die in four or eight weeks, or as many months. (e) Lobar or Pneumonic Tuberculosis, in which the dissemination appears especially localised to a lobe. In this instance also there may be evidence of an older process or of change in the other lung. The course of events in this variety—which, in strict sense, is not very common—is similar to the course in acute pneumonia, with which it may be confused. Indeed, some of the cases thus grouped are probably cases of pneumonia occurriiig in patients with tuberculous lungs. Local and constitutional phenomena are well marked. Physical signs correspond with the lobar distribution. In place of the occurrence of the perturbatio critica at the end of 5-10 days, characteristic of croupous pneumonia, symptoms are unabated. Pyrexia of irregularly remittent type continues. There is much circulatory prejudice. The patient tends to sink with toxic symptoms and may die in a few weeks' time. In other cases the case assumes a more chronic character. 2. Subacute. — This comprises a variety of cases, as the name suggests. It includes some which, having commenced more acutely, assume a milder aspect. Some of these may finally become chronic, or the patient may die during the subacute period. Other cases which at first —possibly for a long period—appeared chronic assume a subacute character, with corresponding aggravation of local and constitutional mani- festations. Other cases are subacute from the commencement. 3. Chronic.—This includes by far the largest number of cases. Inoculation occurs most commonly by way of the air-passages. Dis- semination of the process is effected by continuity and lymph channels; the rate of progress is consequently slow, and varies in different in- dividuals. The disease is frequently arrested