MOUTH—INJURIES AND 468 DISEASES OF THE JAW draining the tumour. Cases have been re- ported where surgical treatment has cured the trouble. If secondary foci have formed in the viscera the prognosis is probably hopeless. Diagnosis. — If the characteristic yellow granules can be found the diagnosis is at once made certain. Sometimes, however, these may not be found even after a most careful search. In such cases the diagnosis may be most difficult. Similar sinuses of a chronic nature may be caused by syphilis or tubercle, or some form of necrosis of the jaw, which may simulate very closely the appearance caused by actino- mycosis. It is important to ascertain the occu- pation because so many of the persons affected have been associated with cattle in their daily work. Treatment.—Complete removal of the fungus should be attempted. A very free opening of the sinuses and scraping away of all broken-down tissue is imperative. Diseased portions of skin should be freely removed with a knife; indeed, the more extensive and energetic the treatment with the knife the more favourable the prog- nosis. The injection of germicides, such as per- chloride of mercury, should only be undertaken when the patient refuses operative interference. Tuberculous Disease op the Jaw Tuberculous disease of the gums may occur. It is nearly always found when the patient has active pulmonary tubercle as well. There seems little doubt that the expectorated bacilli effected a lodgment in some abrasion of the gum. If the bone is affected it is due to a spread of the disease from-the gum, which is the primary seat of infection. Tuberculous disease occvirring primarily in the jaws is met with, but is, comparatively speaking, rare. It is found sometimes on the surface of the superior maxilla in the region of the malar process of the maxilla. In the case of the mandible it usually occurs along the lower border of the body and in the region of the chin. The symptoms and course of the disease differ in no way from tubercle in other parts of the body. Syphilitic Affections op the Jaw Primary chancres of the gums have been met with ; the most probable cause of infection is by the forceps iised by a dentist in extracting a tooth. As regards the tertiary manifestations of syphilis gummata, both localised and diffused may occur in both jaws. The disease may lead to various thickenings and exostosis especially in the lower jaw. The manifestations of syphilis here do not differ from those in other parts of the body. Tumours op the Jaw It is a difficult question to decide upon the best method of classifying tumours of the jaws. Quite a simple method, apparently, is to divide them into simple and malignant. Experience teaches, however, that no sharp line of demar- cation can be drawn between these two classes of tumour. A growth, apparently simple in nature, may suddenly and rapidly develop malignant properties. Of course it will be argued that this growth was from the first malignant, but that the infective tendency was held in check for a long time until certain conditions unknown to us became favourable for its growth. This argument, of course, shows how difficult such a classification becomes. There is one large group of tumours having one point in common, namely, that they appar- ently originate in some-part "of a tooth during its development. These tumours are termed odontomata. At first the term was restricted to certain hard tumours composed of enamel or dentine or cementum, or of a combination in varying proportions of any of these three elements. Subsequent researches, however, have shown that numerous other tumours, especially of a cystic nature, originate during the development of a tooth, and therefore a wider definition of odontoma is advisable. According to Bland Sutton, odontoma are neoplasms composed of dental tissue (namely dentine and cementum) in varying proportions and different degrees of development arising from tooth-germs or teeth still in the process of growth. In order to thoroughly appreciate the nature of this large group of odontomata the reader must bear in mind the chief points in the development of a tooth. About the seventh week of intra-uterine life the epithelium of the gum begins to grow rather rapidly along the alveolar border, and from the Malpighian layer masses of epithelium grow down into the sub- jacent tissue. This downgrowth of epithelium is termed the common enamel germ. As develop- ment proceeds, the changes in the common enamel germ become localised to certain spots where the teeth are eventually developed. At these spots the epithelium grows down in the form of flask-shaped bodies termed the special enamel germs, and these two are connected by a narrow band of epithelial cells forming the neck of the enamel germ or funicular band. Coincident with these changes in the epithelium we find that the imderlying connective tissue becomes divided into twenty papillte. Each papilla projects upwards and forms a dent in each enamel germ. From these papillse are developed the pulp, the dentine, and the cementum, and hence it is termed the dental papilla. The soft connective tissue round the papilla and the enamel germ forms a kind of capsule, and a whole structure, namely, the enamel organ, the dental papilla, and the fibrous capsule, is termed a dental follicle. While the development of the milk teeth is progressing we find that the first rudiments of