24 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS Direct transmission of tuberculosis from parent to child has been shown to occur by several competent observers. Thus tubercle bacilli have been found at birth in the calf of a tuberculous cow and also in the human foetus. Similarly, both in the human subject and in animals, tubercle bacilli have been found in the placenta. But the recorded cases are few ; and the evidence is abundant, that both in man and animals a highly tuberculous mother generally bears perfectly healthy offspring. It has been suggested that in such cases the mischief is merely latent, and, in support of this view, attention is directed to the obscure outbreaks of tuberculosis in bones, joints, and other structures, to which access from without appears difficult. Nevertheless the weight of evidence meantime is clearly in favour of the doctrine that direct transmission of tuberculosis from parent to offspring, while possible, is yet very infrequent. II, Predisposing and Auxiliary Factors.— Heredity. — Granted that the direct transmission of the disease is uncommon, the significance of heredity is not therefore to be discounted. There can be little doubt regarding the heredi- tary transmission of susceptible or less resistant tissues. This is true in respect of many forms of infection. Observations in support of it might be cited both from the vegetable and from the animal world. In the human subject, tissues which resist strongly one form of attack yield readily to another. Some families appear to have a bias towards, or special liability to, one or other of the acute fevers, while they are little susceptible to others. A similar condition of relative susceptibility or insusceptibility has been recorded of different races in the presence of contagion introduced for the first time from without. The fact of varying susceptibility of tissue is illustrated in connection with bacterio- logical and pharmacological research, where difficulty is experienced sometimes^ because of the insusceptibility of certain animals to certain contagions and poisons. It seems reasonable, then, in respect of tuberculosis to admit the analogy, and limit the influence of heredity to the production in the tissues of a susceptibility to, or at least a diminished power of resisting, the tubercle bacillus. The frequent discovery post-mortem of healed tuberculosis points to the fact that certain individuals resist the virus more than do others. Race a?id Climate.—Pulmonary tuberculosis affects the human race in most widespread fashion. Its distribution throughout the globe corresponds closely with the limits of civilisation. There is no immunity of race. It may occur in any climate. The apparent exceptions to the universal distribution are traceable rather to sparseness of human habitation or particular mode of life than to geographical immunity. On the other hand, certain topographical con- ditions appear to exercise a prejudicial influence in relation to the development and spread of the disease. Damp, low-lying, badly aerated, and relatively sunless districts favour the operations of the bacillus, while the reverse conditions are unfavourable. But the disease prevails in all places where it has obtained a footing. It is worthy of remark, that the inhabitants of certain places, formerly visited by consumptive patients because of the in- frequency of the disease, have in time become infected in large numbers. Sex and Age.—The two sexes appear equally liable. This broad statement is subject to the correction that in certain districts, because of the kind of labour, one or other sex may be more exposed to risk. Thus in some manu- facturing centres, where female labour is largely employed, the proportion of women attacked is relatively greater. The rate of progress of the disease varies somewhat in sexes, being ap- parently more rapid in female than male subjects. In respect of condition, there does not seem traceable an important difference between the married and single, save that frequent pregnancy and prolonged lactation must be assessed as auxiliary factors of some moment. There can be no doubt that the effect of pregnancy on a consumptive woman, if at first sometimes apparently conservative, is ultimately unfavour- able {vide p. 52). The disease occurs at all ages. Below five years there are comparatively few cases. From five to ten the frequency is considerably in- creased. From ten to twenty there is a great increase, which becomes greater year by year till the latter limit is reached. This is followed by a still greater increase during the decade from twenty to thirty, the maximum being reached between twenty-five and thirty. Between thirty and forty there is a decrease, especially marked after thirty-five. A more rapid fall occurs between forty and fifty, and similarly between fifty and sixty. Thereafter there are still fewer cases. The most frequent date for the incidence of phthisis is somewhat earlier in the female subject. After thirty-five the pro- portion of male cases continues distinctly in excess. The frequency of phthisis in children and persons of advanced age is much greater than is often supposed. Occupation and Mode of Life.—This is of vast importance. Statistics prove abundantly the greater frequency of the disease among indoor workers. This is in large part dependent on the insanitary conditions of workshops, factories, offices, and dwellings. In huge proportion, these are far too small, ill-ventilated, and dirty. Many are in addition actually infected, through the careless disposition of tuberculous sputum. The danger is aggravated in many instances by the dustiness of the occupation, which, by pro- ducing catarrhal conditions, favours successful