207 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF the statistics published by the undermentioned operators since 1893, we find the percentage of cures to be as follows:—Halstead, 52 per cent out of 76 cases; Cheyne, 50-8 per cent out of 61 cases; Rotter, 50 per cent out of 10 cases; Dennis, 45 per cent out of 38 cases ; Wenan, 40 per cent out of 30 cases; May, 35 per cent out of 20 cases; Helferich, 28'6 per cent out of 35 cases; Bull, 26-6 per cent out of 75 cases; that is to say, an average percentage of 41'2 cures out of 315 cases. It must be understood that the word "cure " is here used in the sense originally applied by Volkmann, viz., to cases which show no signs of local recurrence or metastasis three or more years after operation. It must be admitted, however, that a small proportion do recur at a later period than three years after operation. Kcinig puts the per- centage as high as 15 ; but according to Cheyne, the percentage after the modern radical opera- tion is only 6. Moreover, Cheyne's own statistics bring out the important fact that a distinctly hopeful prognosis may be given in cases where only one year has elapsed without recurrence, provided, of course, a sufficiently radical operation was performed. Favourable as are these later statistics, viz., 40 to 50 per cent of cures, the writer is con- vinced that even better results will be obtained in the future as the lay mind comes more and more to realise that cancer of the breast is a curable disease, provided it is dealt with by a sufficiently radical operation as soon as possible after the tumour is detected. And here he would refer to the important remark of Cheyne, who says : " I may add my firm conviction that the patient's chance lies in the first operation. If this fail, either from imperfect removal of the disease, or on account of the extent of the disease in the first instance, further operation, however extensive, is seldom successful." Extensive and severe as is the complete operation for cancer of the breast, it is attended with a mortality far below that which followed the old incomplete operation in the pre-anti- septic days. Billroth's mortality in his 143 cases was 23-7 per cent. According to Williams, the average mortality in four of the large London hospitals between 1882 and 1890 was 9'4 per cent. Lister's mortality between 1871 and 1880 was 7*5 per cent. Volkmann, Gross, Gussenbauer, and Kiister reduced the mortality to 5-4, 3-7, 2-8, and 2-5 per cent respectively. Still more recently the combined results of Cheyne, Bennet, May, Bull, Dennis, Weir, Halstead, and Keene give a mortality of only •81 per cent out of a total of 574 operations. It follows, therefore, that the improved methods now at our disposal for securing asepsis, have more than counterbalanced any increased risk associated with the greater magnitude of the complete operation. Contraindications for Operation.—A radical operation is contraindicated unless there be a fair prospect of removing all the local and glandular disease. It should not be performed in cases of cancer en cuirasse; when there is widespread shot-like or nodular dissemination in the skin over the breast; when there is ex- tensive ulceration with the base of the ulcer adherent to the ribs; when the carotid as well as the supraclavicular glands are diseased; or when the axilla is the seat of a cancerous mass which is firmly adherent to the vessels and nerves. Atrophic scirrhus, formerly considered by many surgeons to be a contraindication, is now regarded by Cheyne as the most favourable form of cancer of the breast for obtaining a permanent cure by operation. A careful search should always be made for secondary growths in distant parts and in- ternal organs, as they of course contraindicate operation. In certain cases, however, in which the disease is too extensive for complete removal, a palli- ative operation becomes expedient for the pur- pose of removing a tumour which is ulcerated and attended with much pain or putrid dis- charge. No attempt is made to remove the whole of the disease, so that the wound can generally be closed. When there is a mass of disease in the axilla, which is giving rise to intense pain and oedema of the arm by pressure upon the axillary nerves and vessels, resort has occasionally been had to amputation of the arm at the shoulder, with division of the vessels and nerves above the cancerous mass. Removal of the whole upper extremity has even been performed in such circumstances. The majority of patients, no doubt, will be found to prefer increasing doses of morphia, opium, or nepenthe rather than be subjected to such a procedure. Before resorting to morphia, however, phenacetin in doses of ten grains every four or six hours should be tried, as it generally suffices, at any rate in the first instance, to relieve the pain and soothe the patient, while it has the advantage over morphia that its continued administration is not attended by deterioration of self-control. As a local application to a foul, cancerous ulcer nothing is more satisfactory than the fre- quent application of a dressing soaked in a 1 or 2 per cent solution of formalin. As a dusting powder iodoform, pure or mixed with boracic acid, still holds the first place. When iodoform cannot be tolei'ated, boracic acid, glutol, aristol, xeroform, or orthoform may be substituted; the last mentioned is said to have a powerful local ansesthetic action lasting for several hours. Another useful application is to dust the surface with exsiccated permanganate of potash. As regards inoperable cases of mammary cancer, a paper was read by Dr. Beatson of Glasgow, in 1896, before the Edinburgh Medico-