MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 346 this decidua acts as a foreign body in the uterus, and is the exciting cause of the hsemorrhages. It acts, in fact, much as a piece of retained placenta or a polypus does. (d) Any acute or chronic inflammation in the uterus, tubes, or ovaries may give rise to menor- rhagia and metrorrhagia. In the case of the uterus there may be metritis, endometritis, and erosion of the cervix ; in the tubes there may be salpingitis and pyo-salpinx ; in the ovary oopho- ritis and ovarian abscess. Of these various lesions endometritis is the most frequent cause of uterine hsemorrhagia, partly from its causing increased vascularity of the mucosa, partly from the capillary walls becoming friable and easily ruptured. In some cases there is a direct breach of the mucous membrane from a process of ulceration. (e) Certain Displacements of the Uterus, such as Retroversion and Prolapse.—It is probable, however, that in these cases the haemorrhage is due not so much to the displacement as to the accompanying metritis and endometritis. Cer- tain it is that in many cases of very marked prolapse there is no increase whatever in the menstrual loss. (/) New growths in the uterus and ovaries are very common causes of menorrhagia and metrorrhagia. In the uterus there may be a polypus, myoma, epithelioma, carcinoma, or sarcoma. In the ovaries there may be cystoma, fibroma, sarcoma, or carcinoma. Of these, myomata are frequently the cause in youth and early middle life, from twenty-five to forty, whilst cancer is always to be watched for in women between forty and sixty years of age. Myomata cause the periods to become more and more profuse, to occur at shorter and shorter intervals, and to last longer. The nearer the myomata to the mucosa the greater the hsemor- rhage. Thus submucous fibroids cause more loss than do the interstitial growths. In many of these cases there is co-existing endometritis, and from this, no doubt, comes much of the bleeding. In the case of big myomata the veins of the broad ligament are pressed on, and this causes uterine congestion and haemorrhage. When tumours of the ovaries cause menor- rhagia or metrorrhagia it is usually due to their pressing on the pelvic veins and hindering the return of blood from the uterus. In most cases of ovarian cyst menstruation is unaffected ; in a few it is scanty or suppressed; in a few it is excessive. In young unmarried women uterine haemor- rhage is generally due to some systemic cause. In mature married women the most common causes are those connected with pregnancy, pelvic inflammations, and myomata. In women at and beyond the climacteric the most common cause is cancer. In young single women it is not usually necessary to make a vaginal examination, unless the haemorrhage be severe or medicinal treat- ment fail to check it. In all other cases the importance of making, without delay, a thorough pelvic examination cannot be too strongly urged. This is especially necessary in metrorrhagia oc- curring at or after the menopause, and so often due to malignant disease. The only hope of cure of this dreadfully prevalent malady lies in its removal in the earliest possible stage, and for this its prompt recognition is essential. If a simple bi-manual examination does not clear up the diagnosis, the cervix should be dilated, the interior of the uterus explored with the finger and curette, and the scrapings examined microscopically by a competent pathologist. The symptoms of menorrhagia and metror- rhagia are those of acute or chronic haemorrhage superadded to those of the primary disease causing it. Treatment.—In most cases of uterine haem- orrhage there are three main lines of treat- ment—(1) attention to the general health; (2) the removal of any local cause; (3) the arrest of the haemorrhage. 1. The General Health. —(a) A careful ex- amination of the various systems should be made in order to discover any general disorder which might cause, predispose to, or aggravate the loss of blood ; and this systemic lesion must be treated secundum artem. (b) The patient must be kept absolutely at rest, both bodily and mental. The recumbent posture must be insisted on, and all causes of worry and excitement removed. Coitus must be interdicted. (c) If there be either acute or chronic pelvic congestion, the bowels should be kept freely open with saline aperients in order to deplete the abdominal veins. (d) If the patient be plethoric, the uterine haemorrhage should not be checked unless ex- cessive ; it may be a valuable safety-valve to the surcharged circulation. In some cases of valvular heart disease, also, a moderate amount of menorrhagia does good by diminishing the venous turgescence and relieving the labouring right ventricle. (e) As a general rule, it is not wise to give iron internally in cases of anaemia due to menor- rhagia and metrorrhagia, as it frequently aggra- vates the uterine losses. 2. The Treatment of the Local Cause.—If, on examining the pelvis, a definite local cause be found, this should if possible be removed. With the removal of the cause the haemorrhage will cease. (a) If there be placenta praevia, accidental haemorrhage, or vesicular mole, the uterus should be emptied without delay and the pregnancy terminated. (6) If there be a retained fragment of placenta this should be removed with the curette. An