201 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF operative treatment of cancer of the breast, which gives a percentage of 40-50 per cent of cures (calculated on Volkniann's three years' Fig. 17.—Shows a large perivascular lymphatic (cut obliquely) plugged with caucer cells. This lymphatic is accompanying the blood-vessels and nerves which occupy a connective-tissue " claw " which is radiating from the edge of the tumour into the surrounding fat near the axilla. limit), is to a large extent the outcome of their work. Now that it is known that cancer is primarily a local affection, it is the duty of the surgeon to I'emove not only the entire breast, but to endeavour as far as possible to remove also as much of the adjacent structures as are likely to be involved in the dissemination of the disease. In the early stages of the dis- ease, it is the exception to discover in or around the breast disseminated foci which are visible to the naked eye. Careful micro- scopic investigation, however, frequently re- veals their presence more or less remote from the primary tumour, so that, whether visible or not, all those tissues in which we are accustomed to find them must be looked upon with suspicion and removed. Unfortunately, it is impossible to say precisely in any given case when or in what order, in what particu- lar direction, or to what extent, the various tissues become infected by the dissemination, and herein lie the difficulty and uncertainty of the operative treatment of the disease. As the cancer cells have necessarily occupied the lymphatic spaces for some time before the tumour can be detected clinically, some local dissemination has in all probability taken place by the time the patient comes under treatment. For a detailed account of the channels along which the disease in the breast is disseminated (Figs. 15-26), the reader is referred to a fully illustrated paper by the writer in the British Medical Journal for 17th June 1899. Suffice it here to say, that no matter how small and circumscribed the tumour, or how early it be detected, the minimum routine operation should include the removal of the following structures : —(1) The skin covering the whole or the greater part of the mammary prominence, including a good margin beyond that which overlies the tumour; (2) the tumour along with the whole of the breast tissue; (3) as nuich as possible of the paramammary fat; (4) the pectoral fascia, all the sternal fibres of the pectoralis major, the fascia covering the serratus magnus, as well as that covering the digitations of origin of the external oblique and the upper part of the rectus abdominis;^ (5) the axillary fat and glands along with the lymphatic vessels, the main trunks of which pass up into the neck in close relation to the sheath of the axillary vein (the sheath of the vein must therefore be removed); (6) the fat, glands, and lymphatic trunks which extend upwards behind the axillary vessels into the posterior triangle of the neck; (7) the fat and fascia in front of and behind the pectoralis minor, and, if necessary, the muscle itself; (8) the costo-coracoid membrane, along with the fat, glands, and lymphatic trunks which lie below and behind the clavicle in relation to the first part of the axillary vessels and the third part of the subclavian vein. The Operation.—The purification of the skin is a matter of great importance. The writer -4 . 18.—Transverse section of one of the ligaments of Cooper, showing a small artery and vein ; between them is a small-celled infiltration, in the midst of which, towards the upper part, is a small lymphatic vessel containing three or four cancer cells. has invariably found the following plan to be as 1 The disputed question as to the necessity of remov- ing the pectoralis major, or at any rate its sternal fibres, has been settled in the affirmative by the researches of Rotter, who has shown that in one out of three breast cancers the fascia and glands upon the posterior surface of the pectoralis major are affected.