128 MALARIA of changes described occupies a period vary- ing between six to ten days or more, de- pending on temperature and possibly on other conditions. The most favourable temperature for development is 30° C.; below 16° C. the process is suspended. The differences between the quartan, benign tertian, and the malignant parasites in the mosquito are very slight. Bastianelli and Bignami, however, state that they can distinguish the benign tertian from the malignant—(1) by the character of the pigment; (2) by the number and size of the chromatin masses; (3) by the number and arrangement of the sporozoites. The quartan zygote cannot be distinguished from that of the benign tertian parasite. In a number of cases certain black or brown sausage-shaped bodies—Ross's " black spores " —are to be found in the empty capsules of ruptured zygotes (see Fig. 15, /). The exact nature of these bodies is not known, but it has been supposed that they may be either resting spores or an extraneous fungus. Ross has suggested that they may be the means by which the Anopheles larvse become infected. The Italians have confirmed Ross's observations regarding the presence of these bodies, but, like him, have been unable to elucidate their true nature. These observers are inclined to regard them as involution or residual bodies derived from the zygote. The Demonstration of the Malarial Para- site IN Human Blood.—This is not a difficult matter, but some amount of experience is necessary before the parasites can be recognised with confidence, more especially in the case of the non-pigmented amcebulse. Ease and rapidity in diagnosis by blood examinations depend in great measure on the care taken in making pre- parations. The student of malariology, and indeed all who practise in malarious countries, should spare no pains in order to become familiar with the necessary technique. Anyone who is not thoroughly familiar with the microscopical appearance of normal blood should, before attempting the diagnosis of malaria by the microscope, familiarise himself with the differ- ences in colour, size, and shape of the red cells, and learn to recognise crenations, vacuoles, and fissures, and to distinguish the different varieties of leucocytes. This affords good opportiuiities for practising technique, and it will obviate subsequent errors when dealing with malarial blood. A good microscope is essential, a sub- stage condenser and ^-inch and ■i.-inch oil im- mersion objectives are necessary. A mechanical stage adds to the ease and rapidity with which a preparation may be reviewed. Blood may be examined for malaria parasites either in the fresh unstained state, or by means of stained preparations. On the whole, the former method of examination is to be preferred : more can be learnt by observing the living parasite, and mistakes are less likely to be made. When the blood examination has to be deferred for some hours stained preparations must be employed; the anatomical features of the organism are also brought out better by this means. In cases of doubt, it is well to employ both methods. In making fresh preparations the cover-glasses and slides must be thoroughly cleansed. The former are best cleansed by boiling them in a weak solution of bi-chromate of potash, and then washing them in running water, finally trans- ferring to methylated spirit, or to a mixture of absolute alcohol and ether. Or they may be boiled in soda solution, washed in tap water, and afterwards dipped in strong sulphuric acid, and washed in running water as before. These more elaborate cleansing processes are not absolutely necessary, but the slides should be kept in methylated spirit. Neither the cover- glasses nor the slides need be sterilised. Three or four of each are carefully dried (handling them as little as possible) and polished with a soft linen cloth. They should then be covered over. One of the patient's fingers is next cleaned with spirit, and if he is sweating the rest of the hand should be covered with a handkerchief. An ordinary needle, after being sterilised in the flame of a spirit-lamp, is used to prick the palmar surface of the finger-tip. The first drop of blood which issues should be wiped off; a second droplet is then squeezed out—it should be about the size of a pin's head. The cover-glass is then lowered so that it just touches the drop without touching the finger. The chai-ged cover-glass is then allowed to fall gently on to a slide; after a few seconds, and when the blood has spread out in a fine film, the preparation should be ringed with vaseline. On holding the slide up to the light, if properly prepared, Newton's iridescent rings will be seen, indicating that the blood has run out into an exceedingly thin layer. The preparation is a failure if these coloured rings cannot be seen, and another one should be made ; it is waste of time to examine bad preparations. When a number of specimens are required it is a good plan to ligature the finger loosely with a hand- kerchief : a more plentiful supply of blood is then obtained. A von Graefe's knife may be substituted for the needle—it causes less pain. The blood can be obtained from the lobe of the ear if preferred, or from the ball of the great toe; the latter situation can often with advan- tage be made use of when dealing with young children. The preparation should first be examined with the \ objective, when, commencing from within outwards, the following arrangement of the red corpuscles can usually be seen. In the centre of the field there will be :— (1) The empty zone, which contains few or no corpuscles; (2) the scattered zone, which