214 MARGO margo hepatis (margin of the liver), margo orbitalis (margin of the orbit), margo pupillaris (margin of the pupil), etc. Marg^osa Bark. See Neem Bark. Marie's Disease.—A name given to acromegaly, and also to pulmonary osteo-arthro- pathy, to hereditary cerebellar ataxia, and to spondylosis rhizomelica. Marien bad. See Balneology {Austria); Mineral Waters {All-aline Sulphated Waters). Mariotte'S Experiment. — An ex- perimental means of demonstrating the presence of a blind spot in the retina. See Physiology, Senses {Vision, Formation of Pictw^es on the Retina). Marjolin'S Ulcer.—An ulcer, begin- ning in a cicatrix, malignant in nature, and characterised by wart-like growths. Marjoram.—A plant {Origanum Vulgare) yielding a non-ofiicinal drug, sometimes used as a diaphoretic and emmenagogue. MariiOZ. See Balneology {France, Aix- les-Bains). Marmorek's Serum.—A serum ob- tained by the inoculation of animals with strep- tococci, and used in cases of streptococcic in- fection (erysipelas, septicaemia, suppurative peri- tonitis, etc.) in the human subject. See Ery'- siPELAS {Treatment, General); Therapeutics, Serum Therapy {Antistreptococcus Serum). Marriag'e.—The married state has an influence upon certain medical and hygienic questions, such as gonorrhoea, consanguinity, insanity, alcoholism, skin diseases, nervous dis- eases, impotence, sterility, etc., which is well set forth in Senator and Kaminer's work, Kranl-heite7i und Ehe, of which there is a translation into English {Health and Disease in relation to Marriage and the Married State, 1904). See also Civil Incapacity; Deafmut- ISM ; Insanity, Etiology {Prevention, Restriction of Marriage); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Prog- nosis. Marriage); Vital Statistics {Pojmlation, Marriages). Marrol.—A food preparation said to con- tain ox marrow and malt, etc. Marrow.—A fatty substance (red or yellow) found in the medullary canal of a long bone and in the spaces of a flat bone, and having as its probable function the formation of red blood corpuscles; it has, therefore, been used in the treatment of anaemia, etc. See An.emia, Pernicious {Treatment); Chlorosis {Pathology, State of Bone Marrow); Leucocyth^mia {Morbid Anatomy); Physiology, Blood {Source of Con- stituents, Bone Marrow) ; Pyemia ; Rheumatism, Chronic {Morbid Anatomy). Marru bi U m.—Horehound {Marrubium Vulgare), containing a volatile oil and a bitter principle {marrubi7i), is often used in coughs and catarrhal states. Marsh's Apparatus. See Toxi- cology {Chronic Arsenical Poisoning, Chemical Test). Marsh's Disease. — Exophthalmic goitre. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exoph- thalmic Goitre). Marsh Fever. See Malaria. Marsh Gas.—Methane, CH^ {q.v.). Marsh's Test.—The zinc and sulphuric acid test for arsenic. See Toxicology {Chronic Arsenical Poisoning, Tests). Marshall Hall's Disease.— The hydrocephaloid state as seen in cases of infantile atrophy (from diarrhoea, etc.). Marshall Hall's Method. See Asphyxia {Resuscitation, Methods). Marsupialisation.—When, in cases of abdominal section, a cystic ovarian tumour, or an ectopic gestation-sac, or some other hollow structure cannot be completely removed, it is usual to bring it to the opening in the abdominal wall and stitch it into it; in this way, a pouch communicating with the exterior but not with the peritoneal cavity is formed. The name] is derived from the marsupium or pouch in which certain of the Mammalia (kangaroo, opossum, etc.) carry their prematurely born young. Martig^ny-Ies-Bains. See Balne- ology {France, Calcareous Waters). Martin's Bandage.—A rubber band- age used in cases of varicose veins and varicose ulcers to exercise compression. See Bandages {Martin's); Ulcers and Ulceration {Treatment, Ambulatory). MaSChale.—The axilla (Gr. fxaaxa^r], the armpit); the word enters into the composition of such terms as 7naschaladenitis (inflammation of the axillary glands), maschaloncus (tumour of the axilla), and maschalypjeridrosis (excessive axillary perspiration). Masked Disease.—A malady, the exact nature of which is concealed by accidentally associated symptoms ; larvated disease. Mask-1 ike Face.—A peculiar, ex- pressionless facies seen in marked cases of myasthenia gravis. See Myasthenia Gravis {Symjj torn atology). Mason's Trap. — The Dipstone trap