LUNACY 19 drawn soon in regard to edifices more like the palaces of the noblesse than institutions for the care of humble and dependent persons. Such costly buildings, it is safe to say, are not required for a large percentage, put as high as 50, of the inmates. It is within the mark to say that the institutions already in exist- ence to house the insane in the United King- dom and Ireland have cost the local taxpayer £36,000,000—England's share being approxi- mately £28,000,000, Scotland's £4,000,000, and Ireland's £4,000,000. The annual main- tenance bill, exclusive of interest on buildings, for the whole country in 1898 amounted to something like £3,000,000—England contribu- ting £2,300,000, Scotland £300,000, and Ire- land £360,000. These figures, which have a fabulous look about them, may well make the ratepayer hope that the advancing wave of chargeable lunacy will shortly show signs of receding. In Scotland, of the annual cost 59 per cent was borne by the payer of poor-rates, and 41 per cent was contributed by the State as a "grant-in aid." England and Ireland also receive imperial subventions. Lunar Caustic. — Nitrate of silver. See Silver and its Salts. Lunges, Diseases of. — These are considered in the following sections:— Tuberculosis 19 Pulmonary Fibrosis .... 64 Pneumonokoniosis 67 Gangrene . . . . -71 Emphysema 73 Vascular Derangements . . .77 Syphilis, Parasites, etc. .84 See also AGTmoMYCOSis{I)istri/jution of Lesions, Lungs); Anesthesia, General Physiology of (In Diseases of the Lungs); Asphyxia ; Bronchi, Bronchial Glands ; Bronchi, Bronchitis ; Bronchi, Bronchiectasis; Chest, Clinical Investigation of ; Chest, Deformities of ; Chest, Injuries of ; Chest Wall, Affections of ; Expectoration (Characters of Sputa); Hemoptysis (Pathogenesis, Etiology, Symptoma- tology, etc.); Heart, Affections of Myocardium AND Endocardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease); Hydatid Disease (General Symptomatology, Pulmonary Echinococci); Influenza (Clinical Features); Larynx, Diseases of ; Liver, Tropical Diseases of (Tropical Abscess, Prog- nosis, Rupture into a Bronchus, etc.); Measles (Complications) ; Mediastinum (Tumours, Gumma of Lungs, etc.); Medicine, Forensic (Wounds or Injuries, Rupture of Lungs); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious Menstruation, Lungs); Nephritis (Clinical Features of Types, Respiratory System); Osteo- arthropathies (Pulmonary Osteo-Arthropathy); Physiology, Respiration ; Plague (Types, Pneumonic); Pleura, Diseases of ; Pleura, Surgery of ; Pneumonia, Bacteriology of ; Pneumonia, Clinical ; Post-mortem Methods (Thorax, The Lungs) ; Pregnancy, Affections AND Complications (Pulmonary Disturbances, Pneumonia, Phthisis, etc.); Pulse (Influence of Respiration, etc.) ; Syphilis (Tertiary, Visceral); Tuberculosis (Lungs); Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelae, Respiratory System); Typhus Fever (Complications and Sequelae); Whooping-Cough. Tuberculosis of Lung Synonyms : Pid,momiry Tuberculosis ; Pulmo- nary Phthisis ; Pulmonary Consumption Introductory. General Description Historical .... Etiology— I. Essential Cause . Tubercle Bacillus Characters of Mode of Activity . Channels of Infection II. Predisposing and Auxiliary Factors— Heredity . Race and Climate Sex and Age Occupation Precedent Illnesses Pathological Anatomy— Of Lungs Of other Organs Clinical Features— General Outline Lung Symptoms— Cough .... Expectoration Hcemoptysis. Pain .... Dyspnoea Hoarseness . Physical Signs— General Of Advancinxf Consolidation Of Vomica Formation . Of Incipient Tuberculosis Of Cicatrising Lung Of Miliary Tuberculosis Constitutional Symptoms-— Pyrexia Emaciation . Anaemia Circulatory Disturbance and En- feeblement Gastro-intestinal Disturbance Sweating Complications— Respiratory . Alimentary . Hcemopoietic Circulatory .