MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 478 Labour, Physiology of {Factors of Labour, Fotoers); Labour, Accidental Complications (Injuries to Foetus); Leprosy {Clinical Features, Changes in Muscles); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerbbro-Spinal {Symptoms, Rigidity of Back, etc.); Mental Deficiency {Muscular Atrophy); Myasthenia Gravis ; Neck, Eegion of (Wounds of Sterno-Mastoid); Nerves, Multiple Peri- pheral Neuritis {Symptoms, Motor); Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; Paralysis ; Physio- logy, Tissues {Muscle); Pigments of the Body {Pigments in Muscle); Pneumonia, Clinical {Clinical Features in Old Age); Pregnancy, Physiology' {Local Changes, Uterine Muscur lature); Puerperium, Physiology {Involution of the Uterus); Pulse {Frequency, Muscular Exercise); Rheumatism, Chronic {Muscular); Rickets {Clinical Features, Muscular Debility); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Muscles); Spasm ; Spinal Cord, Medical {Symptomatology, Motor Symptoms); Syphilis (Visceral, Muscles and Tendons); Syringomyelia {Symptoms, Muscular Atrophy); Tabes Dorsalis {Symp- tomatology, Muscular Tonus, etc.); Tempera- ture (Elevation, Muscular Exertion); Tendon- Jerks ; Toxicology {Strychnine Poisoning); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symptoma- tology); Typhoid Fever {Complications, Rupture of Muscular Fibres); Visceral Pain {Muscular Hyperaisthesia); Wry-Neck or Torticollis. The diseases of the muscular system are possibly one of the most difficult subjects to arrange in a systematic manner: firstly, on account of the ill-defined nature and rarity of some of the affections; and, secondly, because many of the muscular affections are only mani- festations of some primary disease of the nervous system. It has been the endeavour of the writer to limit the scope of the present article to those diseases of the muscle which may be considered as primary muscular affections. It is, however, impossible to keep strictly to such a course, and certain affections have been dealt with which will probably in the future be shown not to be primary muscular affections. The subject is a large one, and in order to make the article as comprehensive as possible, and yet not unduly to increase its length, those diseases which are of more ordinary occurrence and of importance have been fully dealt with, while those of rarity and possessing little clinical interest have but short mention. 1. Myalgia, Muscular Rheumatism.—The advantage of making a separate group of the condition known as muscular rheumatism or myalgia may be doubted, for in many cases muscular pain is simply a symptom of some acute or chronic disease. On the other hand, there exists a well-recognised class of affection in which the leading and often only symptom is pain and stiffness in a muscle or group of muscles. Etiology.—In an affection having so indefinite a pathology the etiology is also likely to be indefinite. The majority of cases are attributed to cold, either local, as when a stiff neck results from sitting in a draught; or general, as when a person suffers from general muscular rheu- matism after sleeping in a damp bed or on damp ground. The rapid alteration of temperature which occurs when a person who is perspiring freely is exposed to a cold wind, and especially when this is associated with physical exhaustion, would also seem to pl^y a prominent part in the etiology of the affection. Certain persons are undoubtedly much more liable to the affection than others, and this would suggest that the rheumatic and gouty diathesis has also some influence in their production. There is no evidence that the disease has any connection with acute rheumatism, or that it is the result of any infective process. Symptoms.—Muscular rheumatism is charac- terised by pain situated in the muscle. This is increased by active or passive movement, and the muscle is also tender on direct pressure. The pain may be referred to a single muscle, or may affect a group of muscles or even the whole body. Owing to the pain caused by the contraction of the muscle, the body or limb is kept in a fixed position, so that the affected muscle or group of muscles is kept from active contraction, and hence it follows that it is not the affected muscles which are hard and con- tracted, bvit the muscles which are relaxed, the other muscles simply acting as a splint to the affected one. So long as the muscle is kept fairly at rest there is little pain, and this dis- tinguishes the pain from that of neuralgia. The condition is unattended by any consti- tutional symptoms, and there is no disturbance of temperature. On examination of the patient nothing objective can be found; the muscle is tender on pressure, but pressure does not give rise to the acute pain of active or passive movement. The muscle is not swollen, nor is it contracted. Muscular rheumatism tends to affect certain muscles of the body; some of those most commonly involved are those of the neck, giving rise to the condition known as " stiff neck." Not infrequently the pain is re- ferred to the lumbar region and to the muscles of the back (lumbago, q.v.), at other times to the shoulder, and sometimes to the abdominal muscles. A chronic form of muscular rheumatism has been described, in which acute attacks occurring at short intervals make the disease appear of a chronic nature. Pathology. — No pathological process has been found to account for this condition. Some authors refer the pain to the aponeurosis of the muscle, others to the connective tissue, others again to the tendons. Certain it is that there are end-organs of a sensory nature not only in