NEPHRITIS 543 increases there is marked loss of strength, which may at first be attributed to the weight of the limbs. The degree of wasting may not be apparent until the dropsical effusion in the lower extremities is diminished, but frequently there is striking contrast between the thin, flabby upper arms and the enormous size of the hands and wrists. Digestive System.—The digestive system ap- pears to be early implicated. Patients have little appetite and are apt to be fanciful about their diet. They may have a distaste for meat, and frequently they attribute their dislike to certain food to impaired digestion. This dis- taste for food may proceed to actual nausea and vomiting. The material vomited may consist largely of water, and it has been suggested that it may result from oedema of the mucous mem- brane of the stomach. In all probability, how- ever, the vomiting of chronic nephritis is to be regarded as one of the indications of uraemia. In the later stages of the disease diarrhoea is occasionally excessive, the motions not only being more frequent, but containing large quantities of liquid. These symptoms are usually very exhausting, and they are extremely difficult to treat. They may defy all thera- peutic measures and contribute largely to the weakness from which the patient ultimately sinks. Occasionally ulceration of the intestine occurs, and the diarrhoea then alters in character —pus, blood, and mucus being present. Nervous System.—Notwithstanding the dimin- ution in the excretory work of the kidney, symptoms of acute uraemia are comparatively rare with chronic nephritis, and it has been suggested that this is due to the retention of nitrogenous waste in the dropsical fluid. Acute ureemic symptoms have been observed when, under the influence of vapour baths, the reab- sorption of the dropsical effusion has commenced, and this occurrence favours the idea that this reabsorption throws into the circulation a large quantity of toxic material. Nevertheless, the rarity of acute ureemic symptoms with cases of excessive dropsical effusion is noteworthy, and suggests that the excessive effusion serves to protect the system from the results of the impaired excretory work of the kidney. Symp- toms of chronic uraemia are, on the contrary, relatively frequent, the chief of these being severe headache, impaired mental activity, fre- quent vomiting, dyspepsia and diarrhoea, and occasional attacks of an asthmatic nature. Reference has already been made to the oc- casional occurrence of retinal changes, but, in addition, amaurosis may sometimes be developed independently of any retinal change. It is somewhat doubtful whether the follow- ing symptoms are to be regarded as uraemic or as the result of disturbances of the nervous system ; but it is fairly frequent to find that patients suffer from numbness in the fingers. itching, pins and needles, or even burning pains in the hands and arms. These symptoms are frequently seen in connection with advanced chronic nephritis, where contraction of the kidney has probably occurred. Secondary Inflammations.—Secondary inflam- mations are mostly the cause of death in cases of chronic nephritis, and they may affect either the external or internal organs. There is marked tendency to erysipelas and to gangrene, and this tendency must be borne in mind whenever the skin has been broken. Notwithstanding the utmost antiseptic care, erysipelas and gangrene frequently supervene. In connection with the digestive system, towards the termination of the case, severe haemorrhages may occur, either from the stomach or from the bowel. Of the pulmonary complications secondary pneumonia is the most important, while the tendency to pleurisy and to the development of pus within the pleural cavity is relatively frequent. The degree of engorgement of lung varies greatly, usually indeed in inverse pro- portion to the degree of effusion within the chest. It is not uncommon to find pericarditis develop with considerable rapidity, and fre- quently a pericardial rub may be heard even when the patient is not complaining of pain. The pericarditis of chronic nephritis is not usually associated with much effusion; occa- sionally, however, the whole pericardium may be distended with muco-purulent fluid. Abortion is said to be frequent, and has been attributed to premature detachment of the placenta, or to the development of white nodules, probably degenerative, within this organ. Abnormal Types. — Sundry abnormal types of nephritis may occasionally be met with. One of these constitutes the chronic haemor- rhagic Bright's disease without oedema which has been described by Wagner; this type is marked by the frequent recurrence of periodic haemorrhages. These attacks only last a few days at a time, though they may return at intervals of a week or a month. Between the attacks the urine is in every respect similar to that which is characteristic of contracted kidney, and the general health suffers very little. In some cases tertiary syphilis may also be present, but cases of this type are so uncommon that it is impossible to state whether or not they have any dependence upon syphilis. Another variety, which is not so rare, presents symptoms of acute haemorrhagic nephritis of sudden development in the course of the chronic disease, and this type is especially prone to be mistaken for acute nephritis. Cases marked by these intercurrent symptoms frequently run a short course. There is some reason to believe that in many cases this form of acute htemor- rhagic nephritis is a true inflammatory process constituting an extension of the original disease,