MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 302 of this short interval has gone. When the epileptic fit lasts longer, as in grand mal, he falls down, the fit goes through its various stages, and he wakens up, but is unaware of anything that happened during the fit. As a rule, he remembers what took place immediately before. His memory is complete up to, at least, the aura, and it is complete immediately after awaking. In imconsciousness from accident—as, for in- stance, after a fall or blow on the head—the person, as a rule, not only loses all memory during the unconscious state, but he also, on waking up and for the remainder of his life, has lost the memory of events which took place minutes or even hours before his accident. These last are a blotting-out of memories in the process of being fixed, and will later be con- sidered under Permanent Loss of Memory. In fevers and in very weak debilitated conditions there may also be temporary loss of memory. After recovery the memories fixed before the illness gradually return, whereas those which ought to have been fixed during the illness are effaced, or, rather, they have never really become fixed. (&) Periodic Complete Loss of Memory.—This includes a very interesting series of cases which are difficult to explain, but examples of which in medical literature are now fairly nvimerous. It includes all the cases of double personality, of which Binet has given us such an excellent description. There seem to be several varieties of the condition, but in each of them the out- standing feature is that the person has two states and two memories. The passage from the one state to the other takes place, as a rule, rapidly—indeed, instantaneously. Sometimes there is a sort of a hysterical or epileptic fit, and the person wakens up in the second state where he remembers nothing of his first state. Every- thing that has occurred to him in his first state is forgotten; he remembers nothing of his former self; he may not be able to recognise his friends or his surroundings; he begins to live a new life, which has no connection with the past. The time comes again, however, when he passes, usually in the same way (by a fit or otherwise), into his first state, and he then remembers nothing of his second, but all his first memories return to him. This seems to be the usual variety ; but there have been some cases where, when in the first or second state, they remembered not only the events of that state, but also of the other state, whilst in the other state they only remembered the events of the one state. The condition of dual personality is closely allied to the somnambulistic state, where the somnambulistic state may be taken as representing one personality and the wakeful state the other. In the wakeful state nothing of the somnambulistic state may be remembered, although sometimes there may be a vague recollection of it, and in the somnambulistic state nothing of the wakeful state may be re- membered ; but often, it is said, the person may have the memory of the previous somnambulistic state, and may actually begin, as it were, where he had previously left off. Closely allied to this is the hypnotic state, but this I need not enter into. It is difficult explaining how dual personality arises. Some have supposed that one cerebral hemisphere is used for one state, and the other hemisphere for the other state ; but this hardly explains some cases, where more than two states were periodically passed into. An explanation which is capable of much more general applica- tion is, that alongside of each other two separate groups of cells and, therefore, of memories are formed, having no associational connection with each other except at the point of initiation of the impulses in the higher levels of the cerebrum. Once the energy starts along one path, it can only set in action the cells giving rise to the one conscious state, as these have no association with the cells of the other conscious state. (c) Permanent Complete Loss of Memory.— This disorder is seen sometimes after blows or injuries to the head where the person on recover- ing may not only not remember what has occurred during the state of unconsciousness, but events leading up to the accident may have also been forgotten—for instance, a man driving a runaway horse and rendered unconscious by a fall may never be able to recall his efforts to check the horse, nor may he be able to re- member the last few miles of his journey. The reason for this is that memory depends on nutrition; it is a nutrient process. It is necessary for nutrient changes to take place in the cell after it has received its nerve im- pression if the memory of that impression is to become fixed or permanent. This cell has always a tendency to return to its stable or original condition, and apparently shock, pro- ducing unconsciousness, prevents the vital processes which are taking place in the cell at the moment from being completed. A more serious permanent loss of memory may, however, occur as a result of an injury to the head. In this condition all memory of the previous life of the individual up to the date of the accident, or up to a particular period in his life—as, for instance, his marriage—may be blotted out, so that his life during that period may be a total blank. Cases have occurred where there remained no memory of early life, no recollection of father or mother and old friends—the past was a complete blank and mystery. Again, patients had forgotten all about their husband or wife, and did not recognise them, they being no more to them than any other individuals. In some cases the lost memories have gradually returned, in some almost at once; but in many they have never returned. The