MINERAL WATERS 433 Indications.—Dyspepsia with gastric acidity, hepatic congestion, sluggish portal circulation, gall-stones, diabetes (hepatic form). Uric acid diathesis—gout, chronic catarrhal affections of digestive and respiratory organs, obesity. The waters of Mont Dore, La Bourboule, and Neuenahr contain arsenic in medicinal quantities. IV. Sidphated Waters— (a) Simple sulphated (bitter waters). {b) Alkaline sulphated. The former contain the sulphates of soda and magnesia, the latter the sulphate and carbonate of soda and chloride of sodium. The bitter waters stimulate the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal ; their action is modified by the addition of the soda carbonate and sod. chloride. Indications.—Constipation with portal con- gestion, some forms of dyspepsia, gastric catarrh, gall-stones, gout, hepatic congestion, diabetes, and obesity. Chief Bitter Waters Name. Country. Pullna . . . Austria \ Hunyadi Janes . . Hungary y Used for Rubinat . . . Spain | bottling only. Friedrichshall . . Germany / Alkaline Sulphated Waters Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature of Springs. Carlsbad Marienbad Tarasp . Franzensbad ^. Austria Austria Switzerland Austria 1214 1912 4500 1900 122° to 170° Cold Cold Cold V. Chalybeate Waters. — Action. — Improve general nutrition, increase oxidation and pro- duction of heat, and encourage formations of red blood corpuscles. The action of the baths is due most probably to the contained carbonic acid gas. Indications. — Anaemia, chlorosis, neuralgia, sterility, general debility. Chief Chalybeate Springs 1 Franzensbad is celebrated for its mud-baths. ^ The Levico water contains arsenic. VOL. VI VI. Sulphated Waters — (a) Simple sulphur. (b) Muriated sulphur. These waters rely for their effects either upon the sulphides of sodium, potassium, and calcium, or upon the presence of sulphuretted hydrogen, the muriated group containing sod. chloride in addition. Action.—Small as are the quantities of con- tained sulphur, there is undoubtedly a distinct action upon the stomach, intestines, and liver, which is enhanced by the addition of the sodium chloride. There is no doubt that the sul- phuretted hydrogen is absorbed by the skin when baths are taken. Indications.—Disorders of liver and stomach, skin diseases, rheumatism, gout, mercurial and lead poisoning, syphilis (in conjunction with mercurial inunction or injection). Aachan makes a speciality of the treatment of syphilis—mercurial unction and injection being excellently given there. VII. Earthy and Calcareous Waters.—Car- bonate and sulphate of lime and carbonate of magnesia are the most important constituents. These waters often contain much carbonic acid gas. Action.—Calc. carbonate has a soothing effect upon the lining of the digestive canal, and is a good antacid; the sulphate is slightly astringent, and the action of carbonic acid has been dealt with previously. The lime has been said to assist the bone-forming process. The researches of Kionka and Von Noorden, previously mentioned, as to the action of calc. bicarbonate on the excretion of uric acid, possibly have some bearing on the action of these waters. Indications.—Digestive troubles with tend- ency to acidity, irritation of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, diarrhoea, rickets, chronic 28 Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Tunbridge Wells . England . 420 Harrogate England . 200 to 600 Shanklin England . Flitwick England . Strathpeffer . Scotland . Trefriw Wales Schwalbach . Gennany 950 Spa Belgium . 1000 Pyrmont Germany St. Moritz . Switzerland 5800 Levico^ Austria . 1600 Chief Sulphur Waters {Simple) Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature o£ Springs. Moffat. Scotland . 400 Strathpeffer. Scotland . 200 Lisdoonvarna Iceland . 430 Askern England . Gilsland England . Baden. Switzerland 1230 118° Bagneres de Luchon France 2000 Aix-le-Bains France 850 112° to 114° Challes France 880 Cold Helouan Egypt . 200 90° to 110° Muriated Harrogate . England . 260 to 600 Cold Llandrindrod Wales 700 Cold Aachan Germany . 530 113° to 133° Acqui . Italy 450 102° to 158° Cauterets France 3200 55° to 145° Uriage France 1350 Cold