LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 43 rightly suspected as tuberculous. In addition to disfigurement, which occurs in superficially placed glands, glandular enlargements are of moment in two directions, namely, through their tendency to press and to rupture. Pressure may be exercised on the bronchi and even trachea, so as to interfere with respiration. If on one bronchus, collapse of lung may super- vene, which in virtue of physical signs may simulate consolidation. This is all the more likely if the change is limited to the upper lobe. Or veins may be pressed on, with resultant venous engorgement, cyanosis, and more rarely oedema. The vagus trunk or its recurrent branch may be involved, so as to cause paroxysmal bouts of cough, dyspnoea, vomiting, increased frequency of pulse, or aphonia. Eupture occurs in relation to suppurating caseous glands. It may take place into the trachea and cause suffocation; it may take place into a bronchus and lead to nasty broncho- pneumonia ; or it may take place into the oesophagus. The spleeii may be unaff'ected, or, at least, no change can be determined clinically. Thus tubercle is common, but is not recognised during life. In many cases the spleen is small and apparently atrophied. In some cases it undergoes amyloid change, when its size is increased, either as diffuse waxy spleen—the larger—or sago spleen. Diagnosis may rest on direct signs, but is chiefly dependent on evidence of amyloid disease elsewhere (kidney, liver, intestine). {d) Circulatory.—We have seen that the pulse tends to be rapid and of low tension. With the advance of disease, this becomes more marked. The heart is generally small and atrophied in all its parts. This is in line with the atrophied state of the muscles throughout the body. There may be pathological evidence of fatty degeneration, or, occasionally, of deposit of tubercle, but this has little clinical significance. The right ventricle tends to be enlarged (dilatation, hypertrophy) in presence of pronounced fibrosis of lung (increased resist- ance). Frequently the area of superficial cardiac dulness is increased through retraction of the affected lung. This is conspicuous on the left side, where widespread pulsation of the heart may be determined, and marked pulsation of the pulmonary artery in the second left intercostal space. Pericarditis is not very common, but occurs both in dry form and with effusion. It is chiefly due to lymphatic con- nection between pericardium and pleura (in some cases, peritoneum). Symptomatically it is not always distinguishable, owing to the state of the patient. The symptoms and signs are discussed under "Pericarditis." Endocarditis {q.v.) is even rarer. It should be borne in mind that murmurs suggestive of endocarditis may be due to secondary ansemia, or, perhaps, to dislocation of vessels in connection with retrac- tion. This may explain systolic murmurs some- times audible in the pulmonary area, and similar murmurs, best heard during expiration, over the subclavian artery. Tuberculous endo- carditis has been found especially in relation to the mitral valve. Tubercle bacilli have been discovered by more than one competent observer. Other organisms have been found in several instances (mixed infection). In young subjects the valve segments are sometimes found re- tracted by fibrous contraction. This is supposed by some to be an expression of tuberculous change. On the other hand, attention has been directed to the infrequent concomitance of pulmonary tuberculosis and mitral disease, especially stenosis. On this fact has been based the congestive treatment of articular tuber- culosis. There can be no doubt that the concomitance is not common. This is the more striking, if we recall the comparatively sedentary life which the subjects of valvular disease necessarily lead. Still the concomitance is far from being excluded. It seldom happens that the writer is without one or moi-e such case under observation. At the present time it happens that three cases are under treatment, in which the double condition is definitely present. The vessels are affected in various ways. With failing circulation towards the end, oedema of the extremities may appear. Tuberculous arteritis leads to more widespread dissemination of tubercle. Ar-terial thrombosis is rare, but may occur with grave result. Clotting may take place in the right heart and give rise to pulmonary embolism, with urgent or slighter manifestation according to the extent of blocking (vide " Embolism," p. 82). Venous thrombosis is more frequent. Phlegmasia alba dolens, due to venous blocking, is comparatively I common ; it occurs especially in relation to the lower extremity, which is swollen, pallid, and tender. (e) Uro-genital.—Reference may be made to the altered character of the urine, e.g. the increased discharge of phosphates. This phos- ; phaturia has been held to be symptomatic. The occurrence of the diazo reaction in pyrexial I stages, as in other pyrexial urines, should also be recalled. The kidney may undergo amyloid disease, or show evidence of inflammatory I change. Sometimes both conditions are present. The occurrence of amyloid disease is suggested by polyuria (urine of low sp. gr.), albuminuria, I passage of hyaline casts, and some degree of dropsy (there may be little). When this is combined with inflammatory disease the amount I of urine becomes less, and the dropsy and albuminuria more pronounced. Fatty, gi-anular, and even epithelial and blood casts may be present. The cause of the kidney disturbance is various. Amyloid disease is referable to the circulating toxins and waste products from lung disintegration. The inflammatory form is.