349 MENSTEUATION AND ITS DISOKDERS varieties of dysmenorrhoea — the congestive, obstructive, spasmodic, neuralgic, membranous, gouty, rheumatic, tubal, and ovarian forms. But we often find associated in the same patient the pain of spasm, the pain of congestion, and the pain of neuralgia. The tubal form may be both spasmodic and congestive, and the ovarian neuralgic and congestive. The absurdity of such a cross classification is obvious. Whilst we recognise as the immediate causes of the pain the three factors of spasm, con- gestion, and neuralgia, it is convenient to classify cases of dysmenorrhoea as follows :— 1. Those due to local (pelvic) causes—(a) uterine; (6) extra-uterine. 2. Those due to general systemic causes. Uterine Causes.—(1) Arrested Development of the Whole Uterus.—In some cases the uterus is small and imperfectly developed. In extreme cases it remains in the infantile condition. Puberty is delayed; and when the periods do appear they are irregular, occurring at long intervals, short in duration, scanty, and very painful. The pain seems to be due to the inability of the uterus to expand and accom- modate the increased blood-supply. (2) Stenosis of the Cervix.—Here the body of the uterus is normally developed, but the cervix remains small and tapering, with a pin-hole os. A condition of stenosis of the cervix may be acquired years after puberty as a result of cicatricial contraction after injudicious operations on the cervix or the application of caustics. The narrow lumen offers a real obstruction to the menstrual flow, particularly if the latter contains clots or pieces of exfoliated mucous membrane. Violent spas- modic contractions of the body of the uterus are then set up in order to overcome the obstruction. There is frequently superadded more or less endometritis. Hence in these cases the dysmenorrhoea is usually both spas- modic and congestive. (3) Metritis and Endometritis. — These are very common causes of dysmenorrhoea, the pain being due to congestion causing painful tension in the rigid diseased tissues of the uterus. In many cases of endometritis the mucosa exfoliates in distinct membranous flakes. The menstrual discharge is frequently clotted. These clots and fragments of membrane act as foreign bodies and excite uterine spasms. The so-called membranous dysmenorrhoea is due to a peculiar form of endometritis in which the whole mucosa exfoliates en masse, and is passed as a complete cast of the endometrium. This cast resembles a small decidua. It is a triangular sac, with a smooth interior and a rough exterior. Examined microscopically, it is seen to consist of the abnormally-thickened endometrium with gland follicles, connective tissue, stroma, and blood-vessels. Some auth- orities look upon it as a very early abortion with a blighted ovum. But this is probably an erroneous view, as, though almost peculiar to married women, it has been met with in chaste single women. Moreover, it contains no trace of chorionic villi. The membrane may be passed every month, or at intervals of two, three, or four months—the intervening periods being normal. The membrane is ex- pelled on the second or third day of the period, its expulsion being preceded by violent uterine spasms, resembling the pains of labour. After the membrane is discharged the pains cease and the period proceeds normally. (4) Tumours of the Uterus. — Myomata (especially the interstitial, submucous, and polypoid) may cause painful menstruation, both by exciting colicky contractions of the uterus and by giving rise to extreme congestion of the organ. The marked menstrual turgescence causes the myomata to swell at each period, and hence pressure symptoms are always worse at these times. Extra-uterine Causes.—(1) Ovaria7i Disease. —Any inflammation or degenerative condition of the ovaries may cause dysmenorrhoea. There may be acute or chronic oophoritis, cystic degeneration, or sclerosis. There may be merely a big, tender, prolapsed ovary, or the ovaries may be bound down by chronic adhesions. As a rule, big ovarian cysts do not cause dys- menorrhoea unless there be pelvic adhesions. (2) Tubal Disease.—The Fallopian tubes may be in a state of acute or chronic salpingitis, hydrosalpinx, pyosalpinx, or haematosalpinx. They may be bound down by dense adhesions. (3) Pelvic Peritonitis and Cellulitis.—The uterus, ovaries, and tubes may all be bound down and matted together by dense peritonitic adhesions, or from chronic cellulitis the uterus may be dragged to one or other side of the pelvis; or, if there be utero-sacral cellulitis, drawn backwards and acutely anteflexed (patho- logical anteflexion). In most cases of inflammation in the append- ages we find a compound lesion, viz., oophoritis, salpingitis, and pelvic peritonitis co-existing. These extra-uterine causes of dysmenorrhoea usually give rise to marked premenstrual pain. This pain is due partly to premenstrual con- gestion of the inflamed adherent organs and partly to colicky contractions of the distended Fallopian tubes. Hence the patient's sufferings are acute during the week preceding the period, and rule, greatly relieved by the onset of the flow. In many cases, however, there is also more or less endometritis, and from this cause the pain may last throughout the whole period. General Systemic Causes.—There are some cases of dysmenorrhoea without any tangible sign of pelvic disease. Here we look for the cause in the disordered state of the patient's blood or in an abnormal condition of her