MEDIASTINUM, THE 235 appearance of a diffuse cicatrix-like thickening of the pleura. Secondary growths, resembUng in their struc- ture the primary manifestation, occur especially after carcinoma of the mammse, the thyroid, the oesophagus, or the stomach. Sarcoma confined to the pleural cavity is very rare. I have described a case in which the left cavity was occupied by a huge growth which had displaced the heart to the right of the sternum. Symptoms.—The mode of onset of an intra- thoracic growth is at times very sudden, and the patients are supposed to have pneumonia, plevirisy, pericarditis, or acute affections. In the majority of cases, however, the symptoms develop in an insidious manner, and the constant cough and gradual loss of flesh may suggest phthisis. The symptoms of a mediastinal tumour are usually much more pronounced than those of a new growth in the lungs. In the latter case it may be that only at the necropsy is the growth discovered, the symptoms being too obscure during life to attract attention to the lungs. Irrespective of the nature of the growth, its symptoms depend almost entirely upon the effect of pressure on the organs and tissues with which it comes in contact. Pain is one of the early symptoms, being present in at least half the cases, and is met with in the majority of the cases at some stage or other. It varies in character, being usually of a dull aching character, but it is occasionally of a sharp neuralgic or pleuritic nature. In some cases there are paroxysms of pain closely simulating an anginal attack. In cases in which there is pressure upon and erosion of the vertebrse, very severe and continuous pain, of a dull boring character, is complained of. Dyspnoea.—Sooner or later in the course of an intrathoracic growth shortness of breath occurs. It may only attract tlie patient's at- tention when he is exerting himself, or it may be so severe as to give rise to orthopnoea, and incapacitate the patient from taking any exer- tion — even turning over in bed may cause dangerous symptoms. Dyspnoea may be con- tinuous or paroxysmal. The former is more common where there is direct pressure on the trachea, a main bronchus, or the lung itself; the latter where the dyspnoea is due to irritation of, or pressure on nerves — the vagus, and its branches. The importance of recognising a double stenosis of the air-passage has to be borne in mind when tracheotomy for the relief of dyspnoea is being discussed. There may be, for example, stenosis at the glottis from bilateral abductor paralysis, and in the trachea from direct pressure of the growth. Tracheo- tomy, of course, would only relieve the former condition. The size and rapidity of the growth of the tumour will greatly influence the amount of dyspnoea. Congh is an inconstant symptom; in some cases it is absent altogether, in others it is an early and persistent symptom. The larger the tumour and the quicker it grows, the greater is the tendency to cough. The cough frequently resembles that met with in aneurysm, being of a changing character, or it may occur in paroxysms such as are seen in whooping-cough, and it often causes the patient much distress. The expectoration is usually scanty, and consists of a little frothy or viscid, glairy mucus. The sputa are not infrequently muco-purulent, but they are not nummular as in phthisis. The expectoration may be streaked or tinged with blood, and it sometimes resembles red-currant jelly, but pro- fuse hsemoptysis is a rare occurrence. Portions of a new growth have occasionally been detected in the sputum, and the recogni- tion of an hydatid or dermoid cyst may be facili- tated by the presence of booklets, or portions of the cyst, or of hairs respectively in the expectoration. Hoarseness, if temporary, may be simply of catarrhal origin, but if permanent, it is gener- ally due to pressure on one of the recurrent laryngeal nerves or vagus, giving rise to com- plete recurrent paralysis and consequent fixation of the corresponding cord in the cadaveric posi- tion. In consequence of the phonatory waste of air, fatigue in speaking is soon experienced. The hoarseness in these cases is so characteristic that the skilled ear readily recognises it. The assistance given by a laryngoscopic ex- amination is oftentimes most valuable; it should, therefore, be a part of the routine ex- amination in all thoracic cases. It has to be remembered that the laryngoscope will show signs of intrathoracic pressure which are not forthcoming in any other way. The first effect of pressure on the pneumo-gastric or recurrent laryngeal nerve is to cause paralysis of the abductor muscle on the corresponding side; this can only be detected by the laryngoscope, as owing to the vocal cord being in the mesial line there is usually little or no alternation in the voice, and dyspnoea is not commonly present. Dysphagia is most frequently met with in the case of tumours growing in the posterior mediastinum. A mass of cancerous glands in this situation may encircle and compress the oesophagus, and eventually lead to complete stenosis of this tube and consequent death from starvation. Vomiting and gastric pain may be caused by irritation of the vagus from pressure of the new growth, and asthmatic paroxysms may own a similar origin. Hiccough due to irritation of the phrenic nerves may be a troublesome symptom. Pres- sure on the sympathetic is evinced by an altera- tion in the pupil on the affected side; the first