466 MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW quantities under the gum or in the tissues of the face. Complications.—Although alveolar abscess, even if untreated, may subside spontaneously as soon as the pus reaches the surface, yet occasion- ally very grave symptoms may follow, such as pygemia. A spreading cellulitis may develop, spreading rapidly in the tissues of the face and neck. In some cases the pus spreads widely under the gum and separates a large part of the lower jaw, causing considerable necrosis. In- flammation of the lymphatic glands under the jaw is practically always present, but only occasionally does suppuration occur in them. Treatment.—The early treatment belongs to the domain of the dentist. Before any large amount of inflammatory exudation has formed we may be able to evacuate it by removing the septic focus and reaching the inflamed area. For this treat- ment the reader is referred to the article on " Teeth." As soon as the pus leaves the tooth socket it can be recognised readily by the way in which the gum is raised up and stretched. As soon as this is recognised an incision should be made with a scalpel right through the swollen gum. As a rule, by careful treatment a tooth may be saved if it is worth saving. Many good teeth are sacrificed by the dentist or surgeon not having the requisite knowledge to know whether teeth can be saved or not. Necrosis.—It must be clearly understood that necrosis does not in itself constitute a dis- ease, but is the result of a previous suppurative inflammation of the bone or its periosteum. For certain reasons the lower jaw is more commonly the seat of necrosis than the upper jaw. It is common to speak of various forms of necrosis. The differences are really due to the cause of the suppuration rather than to any difference in the final result. They may be classed as follows :— (1) Necrosis of the alveolar process due to suppuration in the apex of the tooth and the alveolar dental periosteum. This may spread to the main structure of the lower jaw and cause more or less extensive necrosis. In other words, the necrosis is a result of alveolar abscess. (4) The suppuration that may result from an overcrowded or misplaced wisdom tooth may lead to extensive necrosis, as already men- tioned. (3) Necrosis following diffused suppurative periostitis, of which the chief example is, as we have seen, phosphorus necrosis. Under this heading should be placed the necrosis following the administration of mercury and other drugs. Under this heading should also be placed the diffused suppurative periostitis occurring in the course of certain septic fevers. (4) Necrosis may follow any extensive injury to the jaw, especially comminuted fractures. Necrosis may occur owing to some laceration of the tissues of the mouth spreading to the periosteum and bone, as in the case of cancrum oris or any malignant growths. (5) Necrosis may occur as the result of syphilis, as we shall see later. (6) Necrosis may also occur as a result of tubercle, apart from any action tubercle may have in the causation of phosphorus necrosis. The treatment of the various forms of necrosis differs in no way from that of necrosis of bone generally, and need not detain us here. Dislocation of the Lotver Jaw.—In the great majority of cases the immediate cause has been muscular action alone, such as yawning, vomit- ing, etc. It may be due to direct violence, such as a blow or a kick of a horsg^-'^ force acting from within the mouth may also produce dis- location, e.g. the introduction of an apple or billiard ball into the mouth, extraction of teeth has been known to cause dislocation of the jaw. Bilateral dislocation of the jaw is more common than unilateral. The exact mechanism of dislo- cation has been much discussed. As the jaw is depressed the condyle glides forwards on to the articular eminence, and as soon as it is in this position a comparatively small force is sufficient to drive the condyle forwards over the eminence and thus produces a dislocation. As a rule the ligaments of the joint are not torn, but appar- ently in severe cases both the synovial membrane and the external ligament may be torn. As soon as the condyles are dislocated, the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles contract and draw the jaw forwards and upwards. It is the action of these muscles, in all probability, that causes fixation of the coronoid process beneath the malar bone. It has been maintained, how- ever, that the coronoid process actually catches against the malar bone. It is quite possible that in certain cases where the malar bone is well developed and the coronoid process is large that this may occur. Symptoms.—In a recent dislocation the de- formity is, as a rule, very evident. The mouth is open and the jaw is fixed. Speech and swallowing are much interfered with because the lips cannot be properly approximated, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. On ex- amining the neighbourhood of the joint a de- pression will be seen and felt immediately in front of the ear, and in front of this the dis- placed condyle may be seen and felt. The coronoid process can also be felt just below the malar bone. In unilateral dislocation there is inclination of the chin away from the dislocated side. On comparing the joint on the two sides the dislocated one can be readily distinguished. Long-standing Dislocations. — At one time this seemed to have been a fairly common occur- rence. The patient has not consulted a doctor at the time, and gradually the jaw has obtained a certain degree of mobility so that the lips can be closed, and in this way both speech and swallowing may be little if at aU impaired.