LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 105 " tertiary " glands which I have described—and there may be deposits in the skin. The condition of the blood varies greatly in the course of the disease. At first it is practi- cally normal; later, when the glandular en- largement is well marked and anfemia has begun to show itself in the aspect of the patient, the red corpuscles diminish in number and often in size also, the hsemoglobin diminishes either in proportion to the loss of red corpuscles or to a greater extent, blood-plates are increased, while the leucocytes usually remain unchanged —in short, the blood presents the characters of a secondary anaemia. This may go on to an extreme degree. I saw a case some time ago where the red corpuscles shortly before death fell to 1,400,000, with marked poikilocytosis; but this is unusual. It must not be forgotten, how- ever, that even when the disease is well advanced the corpuscles may be well above the normal. I have a case under observation at present where they are generally about 5,300,000, and many such counts have been reported. In my case, however, the enlarged mediastinal glands are evidently pressing upon the large intra- thoracic veins, so that there is a certain amount of cyanosis ; and I have no doubt that the high count of red corpuscles is due to that factor, for the individual corpuscles are small and pale, and the blood otherwise is obviously ansemic in character. Possibly this may explain many of the high counts. The leucocytes in the anaemic stage may remain quite normal in number and in their relative proportions, or there may be a slight increase in the number of lymphocytes, and occasionally a very few myelocytes may appear, as in other cachectic conditions. A leucocytosis may occur at any stage, but is always caused by the same conditions which would cause leucocytosis in persons who are not the subjects of this disease, and it does not seem to have any necessary connection with it. When it does occur, the increase is always due to the polymorphonuclear cells, while the lymphocytes are diminished. The enlargement of the spleen is rarely very great, but in some cases it becomes extreme, and cases are recorded where the resemblance to splenic anaemia is remarkable. The pressure-symptoms which may be caused are as numerous as the organs and tissues which may be pressed upon, and it would serve no purpose to enumerate them. It is extraordinary, however, how great the enlargement of glands may often be without notable pressure-effects, so long as it remains confined to the external glands. The abdominal glands, and still more the tho- racic glands, are rarely much enlarged without the occurrence of pressure on veins, nerves, or other structures. In that variety of the disease —if it is a variety and not a separate entity— where the growth spreads beyond the capsule of the gland and invades neighbouring tissues. the pressure-eti'ects are early and prominent. It is these cases where, for instance, extension into the spinal canal from the abdominal glands may take place, and paraplegia from pressure be produced. Pathology.—-Much of the post-mortem appear- ances may be inferred from what has been already said. It only remains to describe the minute structure of the enlarged glands and lymphoid deposits. Usually there are said to be two varieties of lymphadenoma, the soft and the hard. In both, the typical structure of the lymph-gland, the lymph-paths and germ-centres, for instance, are lost or, at least, hidden from view. The soft variety is described as consisting of lymphocytes, or cells which look like them, embedded in a delicate reticular tissue; the hard, as containing much fibrous tissue and relatively few cells. Some cases are midway between the two, and one might surmise that possibly the soft variety may sometimes pass into the hard one. One sometimes finds cases where large cells with convoluted nuclei, not unlike the giant cells of bone-marrow, and spindle cells are present. As far as my ex- perience goes, these are commoner in the harder glands. Generally speaking, the glands are enclosed by a strong capsule ; but some- times, in cases which are not histologically difFerentiable, the growth perforates this. Whether these cases are lymphadenomata which have taken on a specially active growth, or are true sarcomata, our present knowledge does not enable us to say. The lymphoid deposits in the liver, kidney, etc., resemble the glands of the soft variety. In the spleen there may be isolated lymphoid growths, possibly springing from the Malpighian bodies, or a general hypertrophy. Our knowledge of the state of the bone-marrow is not satisfactory. Isolated lymphoid deposits and a general lymphoid condition have been described ; but in all the cases which I have seen recorded the description is wanting in exactness, and probably the appearances due to the disease itself (if there are any) are complicated or obscured by the changes due to the anaemia or to the frequent terminal leucocytosis. The anaemia is probably due to several causes—to the gastro- intestinal disturbances, to the affection of the mesenteric glands, and, if the disease is infective, to some action of the infective cause. Why, with all the over-production of lymphocytes which takes place, in the soft variety at least, there is not an excess of them in the blood, we do not know. For some reason the newly- formed cells do not seem to leave the glands. This consideration leads to a possible view of the cause of the disease—that it is due to some unknown, slowly-growing organism, or its pro- ducts. This is strengthened by the fact that tubercle may produce a generalised enlargement