160 MALINGERING Depot at Chatham, detected a simulation of injury to the back in a man who insisted that he could not move from his bed, by placing him alone in a ward and going at dusk to the window, and tapping at the glass, calling the man gently by his name. The " invalid " went instantly to the window and was congratulated by the doctor upon his recovery. The man returned to duty. Circulatory. —■ Ligatures have been used to produce oedema of hands and arms. Also cardiac obstruction has been simulated by the venous congestion of the head and neck caused by a ligature pressing on the large cervical veins. Palpitation of the heart is often induced by violent muscular movements, and where we have any doubt we should postpone our examina- tion long enough to enable the heart to recover itself. A case of feigned syncope has already been quoted. Angina pectoris is feigned, but the extreme mental and facial tension is wanting. The pulse has been slowed by tobacco, digitalis and tartar emetic, as well as hastened by violent muscular movements. A thermo- meter may be made to register very high figures by friction. Respiratory.—Asthma is often assumed, but the cyanosis cannot be assumed, though the anxiety of expression can be, and also the wheezing. Bronchitis will need the auscultatory signs and the copious expectoration for a verisimilitude. Haemoptysis is feigned with the production of blood which is not aerated nor intimately mixed with the hawked-up mucous. The blood is often produced by sucking or wounding the gums, which should be carefully examined. Digestive System and Alimentary Canal.— Vomiting is involuntarily induced, and in hysterical persons it may become most alarming. The symptom has been known by the writer to instantly be arrested by an order for discharge from prison, although considerable emaciation had resulted. The patient, a young woman, was seen in very fashionable attire and in greatly-improved appearance shortly after- wards. Probably the case was really one of nerve-mimicry. Diarrhoea is simulated and produced. It is very easy for a person to macerate the solid in the liquid excreta. A prisoner afHicted with constantly-recurring diarrhoea was found to have aperient pills concealed in his bed. It is well to insist, in suspicious cases, upon the urine and faeces being passed into separate vehicles, and even to arrange that a person shall be present to witness the carrying out of this order. Animals, such as lizards, and earth-worms, and also coals, etc., have been passed with the dejecta. Haemorrhoids have been simulated by small bladders filled with blood and attached to strings which held the "piles " in situ. Bleeding from the rectum is induced by scraping and pricking the mucous membrane. Haematemesis has been feigned, as in Sauvage's case, where a young woman procured bullock's blood from a slaughter-house and drank it on repeated occasions just before the doctor's visit, and vomiting it opportunely. Another case is recorded of human blood from a venesection basin being drunk and vomited. In such cases the absence of pallor and of a thin, small, compressible pulse would perhaps put one on one's guard ; but truly we are very liable to be misled by any simulation of this kind, at least for the time being. Faices have been swallowed and vomited so as to suggest strangulated hernia or obstruction. Dr. Andrew Aitchison, in British Medical Journal, August 3, 1872, records an interesting hysterical case, where gastrocolic fistula was diagnosed wrongly owing to simulated faecal vomiting. Cotton-wool was mixed with vomited matters. Death occurred from tubercle. Soap is eaten to induce alimentary disturb- ance, and the same substance is chewed to produce the " foaming at the mouth " in fits. Ruptures of quite old standing are attributed by workmen to recent blows, and to accidents of a nature which cannot have induced them. This is common in " compensation cases," and we must carefully look for any discoloration of the groin, such as follows the prolonged use of a truss, and we must examine the patency and laxity of the abdominal rings, since in a recent case we do not find a loose flaccid ring. We must remember, too, that ruptures are not often caused by accidents, unless the predisposi- tion has existed. Prolapsus ani is produced voluntarily by straining. Varicocele, a dilated venous pouch, and some- times glandular enlargements are sought to be passed off as hernias. Involuntary passage of faeces is feigned at times; here we should examine the sphincter, and if it contracts upon the finger we should give solid food and opium; and if solid faeces is passed in bed after that, the case is fraudulent. (Cheyne, Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv.) The writer has disconcerted men who have been striving to vomit as a part of a scheme of simulation, by raising the chin forcibly, which will prevent it. Sir Felix Semon has published a case in the Lancet, vol. i., 1895, in which he believed nitric acid was used to produce obstinate ulceration of the fauces. Here we may mention that bubos and glandular abscesses are often attributed, un- truthfully as a rule, to the results of very slight falls or " strains " by workmen seeking accident compensation.