547 NEPHRITIS Course and Duration. — For the foregoing account it is obvious that this disease follows an insidious course from the commencement, and it does not appear to add very greatly to the immediate risks of life so long as the circu- latory system shows no signs of impairment. I have met with several cases of long duration, more particularly in connection with assurance work, and it appears to me that, so long as the patient can live reasonably and take exercise, the danger may be warded off. With this disease, as with so many others, one is apt to form an exaggerated idea of the seriousness from a consideration of hospital patients. Those in comfortable circumstances undoubtedly live longer than those whose circumstances render care and dietary precautions impossible. The early phases may produce so little discomfort that the patient is unaware of his condition until the urine is examined, as in connection with life assurance. Increased frequency of nocturnal micturition or dyspeptic symptoms may first bring the patient under observation. In other cases the first note of warning may be aflforded by impairment of vision, or the disease may remain unrecognised until the breathing power is affected, when it may be difficult to decide whether the albuminuria is the cause or the result of the interference with the circulation. In the large majority of cases the hypertrophied ventricle fails sooner or later, and the patient complains of increased dyspnoea ; the amount of urine passed falls below the normal quantity, and dropsy, bronchitis, or pneumonia may supervene. The end may be heralded by attacks of diarrhoea, by vomiting, and by ursemic seizures, or it may occur from cerebral haemorrhage. It is impossible to fore- cast the duration of a case of cirrhosis unless the whole of the patient's circumstances are intimately known, but the greatest value at- taches to the condition of the cardio-vascular system, the sounds of the apex of the heart affording valuable indications. General Diagnosis in Nephritis In some acute cases of Bright's disease, and sometimes in some of the chronic forms, there is but little difficulty with the diagnosis, but cases frequently arise, both in private practice and in connection with assurance work, in which the correct estimation of the significance of albumin may cause considerable trouble and anxiety. Sometimes the circumstances of the case make the appearance of albumin a surprise to the patient and to the medical man, while at others the albuminuria may serve to explain symptoms of an otherwise indefinite type. When the albuminuria has been detected in the course of an examination for life assurance, the proposer may have had no idea that there was anything the matter with him, and it is occasionally extremely difiicult to persuade him that there is anything amiss, and that he should take further advice. When it has been found with symptoms of ill-health, the task of the physician is not so difficult, since, as the patient is already troubled about his condition, it is to a certain extent a satisfaction, if even a gloomy one, to have the cause definitely decided. In dealing with the first class of cases, those presenting themselves for life assurance, the diagnosis is often obscure. The physician is practically wholly in the dark as to the pro- poser's habits, his occupation, and his previous history. It is true that questions upon all these points are asked, and that information is sought from many different sources, but it is almost too much to expect such questions to be answered with the same degree of fulness and accuracy that attends the account given by a patient to a physician from whom he wishes for advice on a question of health. Still, mucli may be gained by examining the urine at varying intervals, and, if possible, at different hours of the day. My experience with assurance work indicates that there are a great number of cases in which the presence of small traces of albumin has been determined by chemical tests in the total absence of any history pointing specially to kidney disease, and also in the relative absence of symptoms indicative of chronic renal affection. "This, I take it, is an important fact, since the tendency of those who consider albuminuria mainly from the point of view of the consulting room is to lay, perhaps, too much stress upon its importance, and to take too gloomy a view of the diagnosis and prognosis. There are numerous physical signs which are ordinarily described as being associated with chronic albuminuria, such as alterations affect- ing the pulse and the position of the apex beat of the heart; but these physical signs are wanting in a large majority of cases of albu- minuria, such as those met with among young men from eighteen to twenty-five years of age. Perhaps some slight increase of tension may be noted after the albuminuria has been discovered where, in the absence of albuminuria, the pulse might probably have been regarded as normal. Whenever possible, I make it a rule, in cases of slight albuminuria occurring in young men^ to get into communication with the medical attendant, and to endeavour to enlist his sym- pathetic co-operation in clearing up the causation of the albuminuria. The medical attendant can frequently ascertain the relation which the albu- minuria bears to varying conditions of diet, of rest, and of work, and he may thus afford very material assistance in proving whether the albuminuria is persistent or intermittent. The questions that naturally arise in any case are whether this drain from the system is constant or occasional, whether it occurs at all hours of the day or only at certain times, or whether it is dependent in any way upon the habits or