65 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—FIBROSIS The irritant may reach the lung (a) by in- halation, (6) by lymph channels, (c) by blood channels. (a) By Inhalation.—This method of approach is illustrated by many cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, and by the large group of pneu- monokonioses. In both, the irritant finds its way through the respiratory passages to the alveoli. Reaching the interalveolar spaces, it becomes thereafter disseminated throughout the lung by way of lymph channels. Proliferative changes are determined along the entire line of progress. Broncho-pneumonia in children, more particularly after measles, whooping-cough, and other infective processes, is apt to be sluggish and to become associated with more permanent indurative changes. Such changes commence in relation to the delicate alveolar wall. The condition is frequently the starting-point of pul- monary tuberculosis. Acute lobar pneumonia is only rarely followed by fibrosis, the lung remain- ing comparatively solid and resistant. This is the condition described by Addison, who recognised its infrequency, as "uniform albuminous in- duration." Some have considered such cases as of less acute nature from the first, describing them under such names as "primary paren- chymatous pneumonia" (Heitler), or "subacute indurative pneumonia" (Kidd). The termino- logy seems hardly to cover all cases. Foreign bodies entering the bronchi per vias naturales frequently induce changes in the bronchi (bronchiectasis), and secondarily in the neigh- bouring lung tissue. A large part of a lobe may thus be indurated. More commonly bronchiectasis is determined in relation to a pre-existing indurative fibrosis as a result of cicatrisation and shrinkage. (6) By Lymph Channels.—This has been in- cidentally alluded to in the preceding paragraph. Consequent on chronic bronchitis or bronchi- ectasis produced by whatever cause, some degree of fibrosis commonly supervenes in the peri- bronchial and neighbouring tissue. A similar process may start in relation to pleurisy. In the wake of a pleurisy with effusion, adhesions and thickening of pleural layers may remain. This frequently is associated with thickening of interlobular septa and increase of fibrous tissue more generally throughout the lung. Similarly, the presence of a malignant growth of pleura, lung, or adjacent structures tends to induce fibrous changes in the neighbouring pulmonary tissues. A like effect may be traced to pressure by an aneurysm. (c) By Blood Channels.—Syphilis affords an excellent illustration of an irritant acting by way of the blood. The eO'ects of irritation induced by the syphilitic virus are seen in the adult in the increase of fibrous tissue round about a gummatous deposit, or the cicatricial remains which mark the place where a gumma has been. Congenitally, the effects are seen in VOL. VI the so-called " interstitial pneumonia " of infants, when there is abundant evidence of pulmonary fibrosis. It has been suggested by some that alcohol acts as an irritant on lung structures, producing, in relation to its carriage through the pulmonary vessels and exhalation by the lungs, fibrous changes analogous to the fibrous changes which it induces in the liver and kidney. There is, however, little evidence in support of the view. Pathological Anatomy.—Pulmonary fibrosis occurs as part manifestation in a large variety of conditions. The morbid appearances pre- sented in different cases are considered under their appropriate heads, e.g. pulmonary tuber- culosis, pneumonokoniosis, bronchiectasis, etc. (q.v.). It may be serviceable, however, to recall the leading characters of the fibrous lung. The pleural surface is commonly adherent and the pleural membrane thickened. The pleural thickening may be immense, amounting to j-^ inch. The lung feels more or less dense, and airless. The degree of this depends on the distribution of the morbid process. The fibrous change may be universal and bilateral; at other times it is unilateral. It may be lobar or lobular, or localised to a particular area, e.g. in relation to a new growth or the like. On section the affected portion is found to be tough ; it may be of tendinous or cartilaginous hard- ness, and even gritty. Throughout a greater or less extent strands or patches of light or dark grey colour, and varying size, are traceable. These are often extra dense and cartilaginous. The pigmentary deposit is frequently great. Bronchiectasis, either cylindrical or saccular, is generally present. The less affected portions of the lung are frequently emphysematous; if one lung chiefly is fibrous, the other lung may be extremely emphysematous. The right side of the heart is commonly enlarged. Dilatation of the right ventricle is the general rule. Microscopical examination of the denser por- tions of lung tissue reveals enormous increase of fibrous tissue elements. This may be found on the alveolar wall, and throughout the pulmonary framework. It may be diff"usely distributed or concentrated round the bronchi or vessels, or disposed in relation to interlobular septa and pleural layers. There may not be a trace of the normal alveolar structure. The new fibrous tissue formation may appear as close as the fibrous tissue of a tendon. Micro- scopically, there may be further evidence of concomitant pulmonary tuberculosis, pneumo- nokoniosis, emphysema, etc. Clinical Features.—It is not an easy matter clinically to isolate pulmonary fibrosis from conditions with which it may be associated. Whatever its etiological relations may be, the process itself is essentially a chronic one. The symptoms in diff'erent instances resemble, in 5