MICRO-ORGANISMS 391 Fragmented forms have been mistaken for spores. That many of the involution forms are really due to degeneration is evident from their reaction to stains. Under certain slightly unfavourable conditions segmentation may be retarded in bacilli and spirilla, long threads being formed which, on staining, are seen to be continuous. In certain forms (Cladothrix and Proteus) pseudo-branching occurs though a break in the chain, the chains continuing to grow away from each other, but remaining adherent by means of the membrane. This must not be mistaken for the true branching of Streptothrix, where on staining the proto- plasm is seen to be continuous. In Thiothrix the organism may be differentiated into short, broad, basal, and narrow, long, apical cells, the former being attached to the substratum. The spirals formed by Spirilla vary, the chains either presenting an undulating appearance, or being so closely twisted as to resemble a corkscrew, the organisms almost touching each other laterally. Single cells viewed from one side have been compared to a comma (not the printed, but the written comma), whilst two which have remained united may resemble an S or written E. Though the Spirochsete are usually included under Spirilla they are essentially different. Whereas Spirilla may be regarded as spirally wound chains of bacilli, each cell forming part of the spiral, the organisms being provided with flagella and having rounded ends, the Spirochsete are to be regarded as single thread-like, spirally wound cells which taper at their extremities, are not possessed of flagella, and move by proto- plasmic contractions which are very evident in the occasional bending of the spiral at one or more points along its length. All motile bacteria, with the exception of the forms just mentioned, are provided with loco- motory organs ov flagella. Though it is claimed that flagella have been seen in unstained organ- isms of large size, their presence is only indicated in smaller organisms hj the commotion they produce in the surrounding medium. It is necessary to resort to staining for their de- monstration. The number of flagella, as well as their distribution upon the surface of the bacterium, varies according to the species. There may be a single flagellum at one end, one at each end, bunches of flagella at the ends, or flagella may be given off' in all directions from the surface of the organism. In the spirilla these organs are more rigid than in bacilli and micrococci, where they are wavy. The flagella are delicate processes of fairly uniform width, and often considerably exceed the length of the organism which carries them. Curious bodies, which have been termed "giant-whips," have been observed in cultures of most motile bacteria, these being apparently made up of conglomera- tions of cast-off" flagella. Their full significance and mode of growth are unknown. It is reason- able to suppose that the flagella constitute direct processes of cell protoplasm, which in a condensed form gives rise to the cell membrane from which the flagella issue. Trenkmann has demonstrated in a large species of spirillum that the flagella traverse the capsule which surrounds the organism. It is quite possible that the flagella are retractile, and it has been suggested that they may fulfil the function of absorbent organs. They are best demonstrated in young, actively-growing cultures, being largely absent in organisms in old cultures. Most bacteria develop capsules, these being very thick in certain species, their presence being indicated in unstained bacteria by an invisible something which keeps them more or less equidistant from one another. Capsules may be demonstrated by suitable stains. In certain species very large coalescent capsules are formed, which give rise to so-called zoogloeal masses. Depending upon the density of the capsule the zoogloea may be more or less firm. Whereas capsules are usually of uniform thick- ness they may show a curious unilateral develop- ment (B. pediculatus), or lead to the formation of ramified colonies. It is the capsule which causes the organisms to hang together in chains, groups, and pellicles, etc. The capsules at times show a greater resistance than the bacterial cell which has produced them. This may not infrequently be seen in pneumonic sputum, which may be largely made up of empty capsules, the presence of which gives a peculiar consistence to the sputum. Whereas some bacteria seem to evolve certain individual cells (so-called arthrospores), which are characterised by a higher degree of resistance than that possessed by ordinary vegetative cells, and thus secure their continued existence under adverse conditions, others form more or less highly resistant spores. Though true endo- genous spore-formation has been observed in micrococci and spirilla, in the vast majority of cases they are onlj' observed in bacilli. Spores are formed within the mother-cell, being either smaller or larger than the cell. Spores vary in shape in different species, being either round or oval. When an organism develops spores it loses its previously homogeneous appearance; refractile bodies are formed, which grow in size or coalesce until they attain the dimensions of fully-grown spores. The remains of the cell and cell-membrane finally disappear, and the spore is liberated. Both Klein and Kanthack have seen bacilli retain their motility whilst forming spores ; but, as a rule, bacilli cease to be motile during spore-formation, and die and degenerate after spores are developed, owing to the fact that practically all the protoplasm has become concentrated in the spore. Spores arc usually formed under conditions which are adverse to the further development of the organism, and