178 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF To bring about healing of the sinuses the patient should be anaesthetised, and the sinuses thoroughly scraped out and swabbed with pure liquid carbolic acid ; they are then stuffed with iodoform gauze or iodoform worsted. If the sinus is blind, it should either be laid freely open, or a counter-opening should be made and the channel stuffed. If this does not suffice, the whole sinus, along with a wedge of adjacent breast tissue, should be excised, and the surfaces brought together with deep silkworm - gut sutures. Should the sinus proceed from a firm and deeply-seated induration, the possibility of a superimplanted malignant affection must be kept in mind. In such a case the axilla should be carefully examined, and, if there be any doubt about the diagnosis, the surgeon must obtain the consent of the patient to remove the whole breast should further in- vestigation at the time of operation reveal a state of malignancy. When the breast is riddled with a network of anas- tomosing sinuses excision of the whole organ is the only course open to the surgeon. When a mam- mary abscess ulcerates into a large duct, or when the latter is wounded in opening the abscess, a 7nilk fistula is liable to form. The fistula is not a serious complication, as it is almost certain to close with the cessation of lactation. Chronic Mastitis.—For descriptive as well as practical purposes we may speak, apart from the chronic suppurative forms, of two main varieties of mastitis, viz., the interstitial and the lobular, both of which may involve either the whole breast or only a part of it. In the interstitial form the inflammation especially affects the stroma, involving the interlobular, as well as the interacinous, connective tissue. In the latter form the inflammation is mainly parenchy- matous ; that is to say, it is practically confined to the lobules of the gland, and involves there- fore the acini and the ducts along with the inter- acinous connective tissue. The changes in the parenchyma very frequently lead to the forma- tion of cysts, hence under this heading is in- cluded multiple cystic disease of the breast. The lobular variety may also be associated with the formation of small fibro-adenomatous nodules, the result of an inflammatoi-y hyperplasia and sclerosis of the interacinous connective tissue of certain of the lobules. Lastly, the disease may be still further complicated by the formation of papillomatous or villous ingrowths within the dilated ducts and cysts, thus bringing the affec- tion into close relationship with the simple epithelial neoplasms. Hence the changes, both in the connective tissue and in the epithelium, may reach a point at which it is difficult to say where simple inflammatory connective-tissue hyperplasia and simple epithelial proliferation end, and where true tumour formation (neo- plasia) begins. It is not surprising, therefore, that in recent years so much attention should have been directed to a disease which opens up questions of such wide interest to the pathologist and of such importance to the surgeon. Diffuse Interstitial Mastitis {General Fibrosis of the Mamma).—This is a rare affection. The etiology and pathogenesis are even more obscure Fig. 7.—Vertical slice through the mamma of a stout woman who suffered for two years from multiple sinuses resulting from puerperal mastitis. The breast tissue, arranged in the form of an irregular network, shows several contracted sinuses cut transversely. of diffuse lobular mastitis. than in the case The proliferative changes in the glandular epithelium are much less marked than in the lobular form, and, unlike the latter, there is no tendency to the formation of cysts. As a rule only one breast is affected. The disease, which occurs in the married as well as in the single, seldom begins before the fortieth year, and is most frequently met with about the time of the menopause. There is no history of injury or of a previous mastitis. The onset is very insidious and the progress exceedingly slow. Little or no pain is complained of. When the disease is well developed the breast is found to be enlarged and prominent, the skin normal and non-adherent, and the nipple usually small or somewhat retracted. The organ is firmer than normal, and freely movable upon the pectoral muscle. Tlie limits of the corpus mammse are well defined, and, while some parts feel firmer than others, it lacks altogether the coarsely granular feel of a lobular mastitis. The axillary glands are normal. On sliciruj the freshly removed organ the enlarged corpus mammte is seen to be repre- sented by a compact mass of dull white, tough,