190 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF Growth is slow, so that, when single, the tumour is seldom larger than a walnut. When first noticed it is usually about the size of a pea. When several are situated close together, there results a firm and elastic, lobulated, or nodular tumour of considerable size. In very rare instances the tumour projects at the nipple. The skin over the tumour is not adherent, the axillary glands do not become affected, and metastatic growths never occur. A very im- portant diagnostic symptom, and one which serves to distinguish these growths from the cysto-adenomata, is the presence of a clear or more or less deeply blood-stained discharge from the nipple. The discharge is generally noticed for some months before the tumour is discovered. Occasionally, however, the tumour is observed before the discharge. Treatme7i,t.—When the tumour is single and situated in one of the lacteal sinuses it is re- moved through an incision radiating from the base of the nipple, the wall of the sinus being dissected out along with the papilloma; care should be taken not to injure the adjacent sinuses. When several papillomata are situated close together, they should be removed along with the adjacent breast tissue. In cases in which there are several tumours scattered here and there throughout the breast, the whole organ should be excised. The " local recurrences" which have been reported as following operation are to be explained by a small growth having escaped removal at the time of operation, or by the development de novo of another timiour. With regard to the prognosis, therefore, it may be said that "local recurrence," while it occasionally follows excision of the tumour or resection of a portion of the breast, never occurs after removal of the whole organ. Mr. Bowlby, to whom we are indebted for the first satisfactory account of the pathology and clinical characters of this group of tumours, describes them under the title villous carcinoma. He admits, however, that even in the instances in which the tumours have invaded the walls of the ducts, secondary growths never occur, either in the glands or distant organs. Fatty Tumours.—According to Williams, only three cases of intra-mammaiy lipomata have been described. Lipomata are generally situ- ated either in the paramammary fat (generally towards the axilla), or in the retromammary fat between the corpus mammse and the pectoral fascia. In the latter situation the breast, which is projected forwards by the tumour, becomes abnormally prominent, and if at the same time the corpus mammae be compact the organ feels firmer than normal. In a specimen examined by the writer in which the above state of affairs existed, the whole breast had been removed on the supposition that the con- dition was malignant. The lipoma, in this instance, could have been readily shelled out by the retromammary route advocated by Gaillard Thomas. The case illustrates forcibly the importance of making a diagnostic incision into all doubtful swellings of the breast. Lipomata of the breast, as well as diffuse ncevo-lipomata, are occasionally met with as congenital tumours in the breasts of children. Osteochondromata and angiomata of the breast occur so rarely that no further reference need be made to them. Sarcoma Under this heading are considered the true sarcomata, that is to say, tumours made up solely of sarcomatous tissue; any gland tissue which chances to be present consisting merely of the remains of the gland parenchyma which have been accidentally included in the growth. The tumour arises from a matrix of embryonic mesoblastic tissue of congenital or post-natal origin (Senn). Cysts, when they occur, are always the result of a degeneration of the tumour. The so-called adeno-sarcomata and cysto-sarco- mata have been described along with the fihro- adenomata, to which, histologically as well as clinically, they are much more closely related than to the true sarcomata. The glandular elements of these so-called sarcomata are of new formation and constitute an essential part of the tumour, and the cysts which so fre- quently develop are filled with fluid secreted by the lining epithelium of the spaces. True sa7Tomafa are comparatively rare, form- ing certainly less than 5 per cent of all mam- mary neoplasms. They are met with at any time between puberty and advanced age ; the majority occur before the fortieth year. They occur in the married and single with equal frequency. Nothing is known regarding their causation, but direct traumatisms appear to play a more important part than in the case of the carcinomata. The spindle-celled forms are said to be the most frequent; but if we exclude the so-called adeno-sarcomata and cysto-sarcomata, the round- celled sarcoma is as frequently met with as the spindle-celled variety. Mixed and giant-celled forms occur more rarely, and one or two cases of alveolar sarcomata have been recorded. Melanotic sarcomata (epitheliomata'?) are prob- ably always secondary to a primary growth in the nipple. Myxomatous tissue is rarely, if ever, met with in a pure sarcoma of the breast, while it is not infrequently met wath in the large proliferous cysto-adenomata. The true sarcomata generally possess a,pseudo- cap>sule, which, however, differs from the true capsule of a fibro-adenoma, as it is inseparably connected both with the tiimour and with the surrounding tissues, so that the tumour is