LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 31 It is to be borne in mind that a negative examination does not afford negative proof, save in respect of the slide examined. In doubtful cases, a series of cover-glass preparations must be examined. If the result be negative, other examples of sputum should be examined from time to time. It is convenient in such cases to liquefy the expectoration. This has a double advantage ; it makes it more easily handled and permits sedimentation, and therefore con- centration, to occur. The process of liquefaction may be affected in a variety of ways. It is con- veniently done by gentle heat, e.g. exposure for an hour or two in a steam steriliser or similar arrangement. Or it may be hastened by the addition of an alkali, as in the method to be described for the determination of fibrous tissue. When liquefaction has been effected, the more solid elements may be separated by precipitation or, more rapidly, by means of the centrifuge. Cover-glass preparations are prepared as before from the sediment. When tubercle bacilli are scanty, the chance of finding tliem is thus immensely increased. Other Micro-Organisrnspresent. —These are nu- merous, and include streptococcus pyogenes, sta- phylococcus pyogenes aureus and albus, pneumo- coccus, bacillus pyocyaneus, bacillus tetragonus. They may be determined while the discharge is being examined for the tubercle bacillus. They are of considerable significance in relation to the clinical manifestations (mixed infections), and should, therefore, not be lost sight of. Cell Elements and Fibrous Tissue.—A variety of cells from the lining membrane of the mouth, respiratory passages, and alveoli may be present. Further, elastic fibre may be found. This is of importance as pointing to the progress of disin- tegration within the lung. Such disintegrative process is not certainly due to the tubercle bacillus, though most commonly it is so. Fibrous tissue may be determined also in the discharge from pulmonary abscess and gangrene. When present along with the tubercle bacillus, it points to a progressive process of tuberculous disintegration of lung. Determination of Fibrous Tissue.—The pres- ence of fibrous tissue is suggested to the naked eye by the recognition of greyish-yellow points or strings in the sputum. They may be deter mined more certainly by the following method (Fenwick). To a given quantity of sputum in a test-tube add a like quantity of a 10 per cent solution of caustic potash, and boil the mixture for a few minutes. Thereafter let sedimentation proceed from twelve to twenty-four hours. At the end of that time examine the sediment microscopi- cally. The caustic alkali clears up or dissolves everything except the fibrous tissue. If fibrous tissue elements are present, they are conspicuous as twisted strands or bundles of fibre, presenting dichotomous division. {d) Chemical Characters.—The expectoration consists of water in largest part and certain organic and inorganic products. The result of analysis necessarily varies a good deal in different samples. A commonly occurring sample may yield as follows : Water, 90-94 per cent; organic bodies, 5-9 per cent; inorganic, 0'7-0'9 per cent. The organic products include mucin, albumin, nuclein, fat, fatty acids, cholesterin, stearin, tyrosin, lecithin extractives, and, it may be, urea. The inorganic include chloride of sodium and phosphates. Alcoholic and glycerine extracts of tuberculous expectora- tion have toxic properties. The latter can digest coagulated albumin. Haemoptysis.—This does not occur in every case. Statistics (see article " Haemoptysis") have varied much with reference to the subject. Taking a large statistic, we may say that 60 per cent of such cases show hfemoptysis at one or other time. It is a remarkable fact in the experience of the writer, that hsemoptysis is a less frequent and less grave symptom of pulmonary tuberculosis under open-air methods of treatment than formerly. In respect of age incidence, it may occur at any time, but is certainly less common in children and young persons before puberty. The amount of blood discharged varies much. There may be a mere specking or streaking or staining or any quantity up to a pint or two. The colour of the blood varies too, from bright florid to various shades of red-brown and black- brown. The blood may be discharged alone, either fluid and frothy or clotted. At other times it is intimately mingled with the expec- toration. After severe haemorrhage the expec- toration is apt to remain tinged with blood for days or longer. It is not infrequent to find that a pronounced haemorrhage is heralded for some days by slighter tingeing or streaking of the expectoration. Hsemoptysis may occur at any stage of pulmonary tuberculosis. It is frequently one of the earliest manifestations. So true is this that, in the absence of other suflScient explana- tion, such as mitral stenosis, or evident lesion of mouth, nose, or throat, the occurrence of hsemoptysis justifies the provisional assumption that the patient is tuberculous. The frequency of its early advent gave rise to the false doctrine of phthisis ab hcemoptoe, which we may discount as thoroughly fallacious on clinical, anatomical, and experimental grounds. The causes which lead to the occurrence of haemoptysis at various stages of pulmonary tuberculosis have been considered under " Hsemoptysis " (vol. iv. p. 38). The exciting causes of hsemoptysis are of interest. There may be no apparent cause. Thus it occurs frequently enough during sleep. This is of immense significance in relation to the rational treatment of the disease. I do not believe that grave hsemorrhages are likely to