300 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE what Ribot calls points de i epl;re, which are the sort of milestones in our past lives ; and not only in our past lives, but if we know history we have points de repere in history, and between such milestones or " points of reference" we locate different events. These milestones are not chosen by ourselves : they stamp themselves on our consciousness by reason of their intensity or the intensity of their associations—in other words, they are tlie most outstanding events or memories in our histories ; they are the memories most stably or intensely fixed. As we live our lives, having one experience after another, the memories of these different experiences do not become equally fixed. Some pass more or less rapidly into oblivion, others remain more or less permanently. The most vivid of the latter become the milestones or points of reference, and each is linked to or associated with the other. If every memory was equally well fixed and equally easily revived and recalled, then, in order to recall something that happened twenty years ago, it would be necessary to recall all the events that happened before twenty years ago if one took them in order from birth to then, or the events that have happened from the present time to twenty years ago if the order was in the inverse order. It will therefore be seen that to have a good useful memory it is necessary to at least temporarily forget, otherwise time would not be sufficient for us : we would require to live and relive our lives over and over again. Forgetful- iiess is therefore an essential of a good memory. It is on record that persons who have had such a well-developed and retentive memory that on reading a long document or piece of poetry over once they could repeat it from beginning to end, found that such a memory was more of a nuisance than an advantage, because in order to recall anything in the middle they had to repeat from the beginning. Each part was equally well fixed in the memory, and there were no points of reference. In order to remember we require, therefore, to forget. In order to have a good, healthy, useful memory, therefore, it is necessary to fix, revive, and recognise the important experiences or memories and to allow the useless and less important experiences to temporarily or permanently pass into oblivion. The above are the accompani- ments of a well-developed, vigorous nervous system in health. A marked departure from this standard may either mean a less highly- developed nervous system, or if the individual has at one time attained to this standard, the departure means want of health, a defect or disease affecting memory. Let us now consider unhealthy memory or memory in disease. Memory in Disease From what I have already said it will be seen that there is not one faculty of memory and that there is not one seat of memory, but that there are memories and many seats of memories ; in fact, each cell and each group of cells and their associations have their own special memories, and as these cells and groups have their special seats in the brain, so special memories have special seats. But some memories may be the result of the association of so many cells and groups of cells that they have elements in almost every part of the cerebrum. Diseases, however, which pick out and destroy special parts of the brain may destroy the memories located in these special parts. Such forms of amnesia are referred to under the article on " Aphasia" (vol. i. p. 232), and I have no intention here to discuss these different forms. Memory from the alienist point of view has also been referred to under the articles on insanity. I wish, however, here to discuss the clinical defects and disorders of memory from the point of view of memory. The diseases and disorders of memory might be classified in many ways. The form of classi- fication I wish to adopt is given below, and it will be seen that the method is based on the three different processes on which every com- plete memory consists, viz., fixation, revival, and recognition. ra Defective nutrition in nerve-cells. \ Locah^' I. Defects 6 Defects due to want of intensity of the impression, in flxa- c Defects due to want of duration of the impression, tion of. d Defects due to insufficient attention to the im- the me- pression. mory. e Defects due to insufficient association. / Congenital defects, i.e. want of anatomical and physiological capacity. II Defects Non-revival because of insufficient fl.\ation and association. due to non - re- vival of the nie-( mory w h i c li hasbeen fixed. < Temporary. -(Periodic. (Permanent. /Temporary. \ Permanent. h Destruction of me- I (1) Complete, mories fixed or in I fixed'°''''^^°^'''^'°^ I Partial. 1(3) Progressive. c Difficulty in reviving by will—recollection. \d Difficulty in reviving by similar impression. III. De- fects due to want of recog- ^Defective association, n i t i o n after re- vival. IV. Hypermnesia or excitation of memory, I. Defects in Fixation of the Memory (a) Defective Nutrition in Nerve-Cells.—It has already been stated that memory depends on nutrition, and it would therefore follow that where there is defective nutrition there would be defective memory. It is well known that the memories of early youth remain more persistently and are more vivid than those of later life, the explanation being that they are deeper or more decidedly fixed in the cells because of the more vigorous nutritive processes in early life. The memories of old age are easily effaced, especially when the vital powers are declining rapidly. The old man forgets what occurred yesterday or even an hour or two ago, but he remembers the scenes of his boyhood with great vividness. Similarly, when