383 METEOROLOGY personal element, the highest mortality being in November and December, when catarrhal affec- tions of the throat increase the susceptibility to infection by a disease that attacks the naso- pharynx, tonsils, and larynx. Measles presents two annual waves, the maxima being reached in June and December, but it is a remarkable fact that while in England and on the continent of Europe the winter wave is the higher, in Scot- land, Scandinavia, and in Hamburg the order is reversed. Scarlatina in Europe is most prevalent and fatal in October, and least so in May and June, but for reasons hitherto unexplained, the maximum in New York is as constantly reached in May. The social conditions may in some cases be themselves dependent on the meteoro- logical, as when the weather tempts to an out- door life and free ventilation of the dwelling, or drives the population into their houses and to neglect of ventilation ; but the causes of the seasonal prevalence of the purely infectious diseases are too complex and various to admit as yet of any satisfactory explanation. Meter. See Metric System. Methaemog^lobin.—A compound of hsemoglobin with oxygen in which the oxygen is more firmly fixed than in oxyhsemoglobin. See Physiology, Blood {Erythrocytes) ; H^emo- GiiOBiNURiA {Definition); Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Haemoglobin and its Deriv- atives). Methaemogrlobinaemia.—The pre- sence of metheemoglobin in the blood. Methaemog^lobinuria. — The pre- sence of methtemoglobin in the urine. Methane.—Marsh gas (CH4), the simplest hydrocarbon (paraffin series) known ; one carbon atom is believed to be linked with four hydrogen ones. More complicated members of the series are derived from it: e.g. ethane is formed by the replacement of one of the hydrogen atoms by methyl (CHg) producing CjHg, propane is formed by the replacement of one of its hydrogen atoms by methyl producing C^Hg, etc. Methane is also known as light carburetted hydrogen, as methyl hydride, and as fire-damp; a mixture with air forms an explosive mixture. Methenyl Chloride.-Chloroform or tri-chloro-methane (CHCI3). See ANiESTHETics. Methethyl.—A local ansesthetic believed to be a mixture of ethyl chloride with methyl chloride and chloroform. Method.—A means or plan of carrying out a surgical, obstetrical, or medical process (diagnostic or therapeiitic). Methodism.—A system of medical theory and practice founded in 100 a.d., according to which morbid states are due to a " looseness " or "tightness" or to a combina- tion of both these states. See Medicine, History OF {Sor anus). Methomania.—A craving for alcohol or stimulants ; dipsomania. Methilepsia has the same meaning (Gr. iJiiOrj, strong drink). Methonai. — A hypnotic compound (CH3)2C(S02CH3)2, resembling sulphonal, given in doses of 15 to 20 grains; chemically it is dimethyl-sulphone-dimethylmethane. Methoxycatecho 1.—Guaiacol {q.v.). Methyl.—The hypothetical radical (CH3) of the hydrocarbon series, the base of a very large number of chemical compounds (Gr. ixtOv, wine, vXrj, wood). See Methyl Alcohol. Methylacetanilide. See Exalgin. Methylal.—A substance, soporific in its action, and having the formula CH2(CH30).^, obtained by the distillation of methyl alcohol with sulphuric acid ; dose, 1 drachm. Methyl Alcohol. — Wood alcohol, CH3OH, obtained i'rom the destructive distilla- tion of wood (Gr. fi-iOv, wine, vXi], wood) ; also known as carbinol or methyl hydroxide. Methylamine. - A colourless gas, CH^N or N(CH3)H2, alkaline in reaction, found in herring-brine and obtained during the distilla- tion of morphine. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Decomposition of Fish). Methylated Spirit.—Alcohol contain- ing 10 per cent of wood naphtha (methyl alcohol) and not less than -i| of 1 per cent of coal-tar naphtha, to give it a nauseous taste and so prevent it being used as a beverage. See Alcohol {Spiy-its). Methyl Carbinol.—Ethyl alcohol or simply alcohol (CoH^O). See Alcohol. Methyl Chloride.—A colourless gas, CHgCl, easily liquefied under pressure. It is used as a local anaesthetic for minor surgical operations, and to relieve the pain of neuralgia. It is applied exactly as ethyl chloride is, a minute spray from a glass flask being played on the part till freezing occurs. It is said to be one of the ingredients of Somnoform. Methylene Blue. See also Diabetes Mellitus {Blood, Reaction); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Colour).—Tetramethyl- thionine, obtained by the action of hydrogen sulphide on an oxidation product of para-amido- dimethylaniline. Occurs in the form of dull