159 MALINGERING This was done in order to gain admission to hospital, the condition always improving while there. Contractures.—Limbs are persistently flexed or held in rigid extension to simulate joint lesions or ankyloses, and by disuse may become stiff, through real secondary conditions of liga- ments and muscles; the atrophy which follows disuse may lead us to suspect real morbid conditions. The writer saw a case of a convict who presented himself with the appearance of left facial paralysis and left torticollis, and whose left deltoid was bulged out in a large mass below the shoulder, an aspect suggestive of some old injury or dislocation. This man ex- plained his case thus : "I have fits and then I can't help stealing watches when I'm just coming round; and gold chains is sure to dis- appear when I'm took bad. And my arm is parelite." An unexpected prompt military word of command caused him, by reflex action, to resume his normal anatomical shape, and his attempt to resume the deformity was un- availing. He would have succeeded in enlisting great sympathy in a street or in court, and his assumed facial aspect was very pitiable. Another man produced a deformity by hold- ing his shoulders so high as to, so to speak, bury his head in the clavicles. He was easily made to lower his shoulders. These cases show how strange some convicts are in their vagaries. Old "Dupuytren's Contraction" of the palmar fascia is sometimes dishonestly attributed to a recent slight injury of the finger; and arthritic joints are often pleaded as the im- mediate results of some trivial local injuries quite incapable of producing osteo-arthritis. " Stiff joints " are often caused by wilful or in- dolent neglect to obey instructions as to attend- ing hospitals for massage and passive exercise after fractures and other injuries. Workmen who are claiming " compensation" for accidents have been the malingerers in these cases. Tenosynovitis is produced at times by prisoners and is seen as a mild epidemic. Iodine and an immovable casing will generally cure it. Fractures are sometimes pleaded in accident claims when they have not existed. The X-rays should be utilised in these and other obscure cases. The writer has heard of a young medical student who insured in many accident companies, and claimed for a fractured leg. Various officials visited him from the several companies, and the sums were about to be paid, when a medical man insisted on ripping up the plaster- of-Paris case which enveloped the limb, and no fracture signs were found. The claimant had placed the case on his own leg. He was not paid by any of the companies ! Fracture of the neck of the femur has been cleverly simulated in the Poplar Hospital, as Dr. Moritz informs me, by a man who knew the objective signs and was only detected when placed under an antesthetic. We must never forget the aid to the truth which we have in anaesthetics in many doubtful cases, such as " phantom tumours," obscure joint lesions, con- tractions, etc. Joints. — The general form of malingering connected with joints is the insistence on in- ability to move them after dislocations, fractures, and synovitis, etc., have been really recovered from. Old arthritic " clicks" are utilised to simulate some remaining lesion. Ordinary surgical care should help us here, and we must look for signs of osteo-arthritis in other joints. The normal slight crepitus that can be noticed in most knee-joints is often pleaded after slight blows or twists, as showing grave joint disease. Here we should compare the sensation felt by us when the other knee is flexed and extended and the hand placed over it. Ankylosis of wrist was feigned by a man seeking compensation after a slight injury which had left a deformity. He held the joint very rigid until the writer, holding the man's hand, narrated a very horrible story about an execution which he had assisted at, and when the climax of tragic horrors was reached the hand dropped in complete flexion in sympathy with the listener's intense morbid interest in the subject narrated. In a case of feigned knee contracture, a surgeon examined the part carefully, the patient lying on his back; then turning the man over on to his front, proceeded to examine the sound knee with every appearance of care and sym- pathy. The man was confused by the altered position, and the "contracted" knee became movable when the surgeon was busy with the other one which had become affected. A case is on record of a soldier who had studied the gait of - hip disease so perfectly that he was able to simulate that condition admirably and successfully. A prisoner is recorded to have feigned-contrac- tion of the knee for seven years, always walking with a stick. On being discharged at the end of his sentence, he said, " I will try to put down my leg now, it may be of use to me," and he walked away well! Some men can simulate deformities after real injuries of a slight nature by contracting the tendons about the ankle and foot. In examin- ing these the subjects should be put off their guard and thus " trapped." Bones.—Diseases of bones do not appear to be often malingered; but we must always recollect that the bony pieces issuing from a suspicious sinus have been known to belong to another class of animal than man. Dr. Leslie quotes a case in the Medical Record of New York (1892) where three hundred fragments of boiled chicken bones were removed from the hand in a female. Dr. Davies, surgeon to East India Company