MIDWIVES 404 a midwife, which literally means one who stands in front of or over against (06, stare), and refers to the former practice of the assistant standing or sitting in front of the parturient patient and receiving the infant as it was born. Obstetrics is now the name often given to the art and science of midwifery, and obstetrician is the noun ; sometimes " female obstetrician " is used as equivalent to midwife or accoucheuse. Historical S KETCH. — No doubt women as- sisted women at their confinements from the earliest periods of the world's history, and men —priests, priest-physicians, or surgeons—were called in to assist only in cases of dire necessity and pressing danger. The midwifes were doubt- less women who had themselves given birth to several children, who had attended many of their relatives in childbed, or who had gathered some rudimentary notions of the art from acting as assistants to other more experienced mid- wives. They had no knowledge of the anatomy of the female generative organs, and their practice, therefore, was one of "rule of thumb," quite empiric. Nevertheless, the midwives were a recognised part of the economy of a nation (as we learn from Exodus i. 15-20), and, no doubt, some of them attained to some degree of skill in their art, although they had no organised teaching and no text-books. We may form some idea of the low level to which the practice of midwifery had sunk in Europe in the sixteenth century from the perusal of Rhodion's De Partu Homiids, a work translated into English in 1540 by Jonas and revised later by Raynalde. This work, which was termed the Byrth of Mankynde, professes to meet a crying want and to give midwives a means of learning better how to treat the women in labour who constituted their patients. But if the Byrth of Mankynde was an advance upon earlier obstetric practice, we can only lament the ignorance of previous midwives and the gross mismanagement that cases of even normal labour must have suffered from; for, assuredly, this book, even as it is " newly set forth, corrected, and augmented " by Raynalde, is full of amazing blunders and of meddlesome and dangerous practices and manipulations.^ It was more than time that the midwives should receive some training in their art. But there was no one capable of giving such teach- ing; for men were not allowed by public opinion to act as attendants upon women in normal labours, and the experience they gained at the difficult cases was purely surgical, resolving itself into the practice of dismember- ment of the foetal body. About the middle of the sixteenth century, however, a change began to take place. Pare introduced podalic ' The reader will find an account of sixteenth-century midwifery as practised in England in the Jmirnal of Obstetrics and Gyncecologij of the British Empire for October 1906 and September and October 1907. version into obstetric practice in 1550, and Louyse Bourgeois (1563-1636), the famous mid- wife of the French royal family, was one of the first graduates of a school for midwives established in the Hotel Dieu in Paris. Louyse Bourgeois also published a work on midwifery which helped to raise the standard of the practice of the obstetric art in France. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, however, various occurrences contributed to the introduction of men into the practice of midwifery. The forceps was invented by the Chamberlens, reinvented by Palfyn, and per- fected by Levret (1745) ; scientific treatises on midwifery by physicians (Mauriceau and others) began to appear; and fashion, one of the most powerful influences in social habits and custom, prescribed that women should be attended at their confinements by male physi- cians or surgeons. It is true that more thorough provision for the teaching of midwives was made and that some distinguished midwives (among whom may be named Justine Siege- mundin of Brandenburg, Madame Boivin in France, and Mrs. Jane Sharp and Mrs. Nihell in England) practised the art of obstetrics; but slowly and surely midwifery was passing into the hands of men. The midwives, how- ever, did not easily let the practice slip away from them ; and for many years, in England at least, a fierce struggle was carried on, Mrs. Nihell on the one side and Dr. Smellie on the other waging a wordy war. There is reason to believe that some of the persons attending the lectures on midwifery given by the professor of the subject in the University of Edinburgh were midwives ; and in Scotland the practice of obstetrics seems to have been longer left to women than in England. This university professorship, apparently the first, was insti- tuted in 1726, when Mr. Joseph Gibson was appointed to the post; but although this was so, even towards the close of the eighteenth century " the profession of an accoucheur was esteemed very unbecoming for a gentleman." The arrival of the nineteenth century saw the practice of midwifery pass almost entirely into the hands of regular medical practitioners, the midwives as a rule retaining only attend- ance upon women of the poorer classes or those living in out-of-the-way districts. The admis- sion of women to the medical profession towards the close of the century began to restore some of the work among the better classes to female hands ; but, simultaneously therewith, came the Midwives Registration Act for the better training of midwives and for the regulating of their practice, which has had so profound an influence upon this whole question. This leads me to refer to the legislation on the subject. Legislation for Midwives. — The earliest legislation regarding midwives in England seems to have had reference to their ecclesi-