MEDICINE, FORENSIC 243 When the death is connected with circum- stances of a suspicious nature, the prociirator- fiscal orders a post-mortem examination, and generally associates two medical men for this object. The results of this examination are stated in the form of a Medical Report, which must be drawn up by them, and should be sent to the procurator-fiscal within forty-eight hours. Such a report must be on "soul and con- science "; it should contain only facts observed in the external and internal examination of the body, and, in the last paragraph, a simply ex- pressed opinion as to the cause of death. The report must be signed by both examiners. In the investigation of cases of death or of crime, the procurator-fiscal has the power to re- qiiire the attendance of a witness to be examined or " precognosced " by him regarding the case. It should be remembered that while only statements of facts observed must go into a medical report, the medical witness, in his pre- cognition, has abundant opportunity of express- ing opinions and theories as to the influence certain conditions present may have had in the causation of death, and as to the manner, etc., in which injuries have been inflicted. The medical report is a production in any criminal charge, whereas a precognition is simply for the use of the counsel of the party who has obtained it. The agent for the opposite side in any case has also a right to precognosce a witness on behalf of his client, and a request to this effect should never be refused in criminal cases; but the witness need only reply to questions, and is not bound to volunteer information. As a result of these primary investigations by the procurator-fiscal no further proceedings may be taken, or, on the other hand, a person may be indicted on a criminal charge. The case may be disposed of in the Sheriff Court, or, in more serious charges, it may go before the Circuit Court or High Court of Justiciary. In both instances the medical witnesses may be cited to appear, and such a citation must be obeyed. Fees.—For a medical certificate, £1 : Is. For a post-mortem examination and report, £2 : 2s. For attendance at Sheriff Court, £1 : Is. For attendance in the High Court or Circuit Court, £2 : 2s., or £3 : 3s. if the witness comes from a distance. £2 : 2s. is allowed for the previous day, if it was impossible for the citation to be obeyed by travelling from home on the day of the trial. There is no fixed scale for attendance in Police Courts, but as a rule a fee of 10s. 6d. to £1 : Is. is allowed. For a precognition a fee of £1 : Is. is paid. Post-mortem Examinations. — The following directions should be strictly attended to in making medico-legal post-mortem examina- tions. The medical examiner should have a written warrant from the coroner, or the procurator- fiscal, and should take it with him. No un- authorised or interested person should be present at the examination. Notes of the examination should be made at the time. The body must be identified, if possible, by at least two witnesses before commencing the dissection; the names of these witnesses must be noted. Every organ of the body must be examined, no matter how apparent the cause of death may seem. As a general rule all injured parts should be removed and preserved. In cases of suspected poisoning, absolutely clean, wide-mouthed bottles or jars should be provided before commencing the dissection. Each organ should be placed in a separate jar, securely closed, sealed, and labelled with the nature of the contents, the date, and signature of the examiners. The whole of the most important organs in cases of suspected poisoning should be removed, e.g. liver, kidnej'^s, brain, spleen, stomach, intestines, also any urine present in the bladder, and some of the blood. No preservative or antiseptic should be added. The various sub- stances removed should be handed over to the charge of the police after the examination, and a receipt obtained for them. No medical man should undertake an analysis in a case of suspected poisoning unless he is a practised chemist. In performing the dissection the external appearances presented by the body must first be noted, more especially, any marks of injury, these being carefully examined and described as to their size, position, condition of surrounding parts, etc.; also the presence or absence of any body temperature, rigor mortis, post-mortem lividity (all bruises must be incised so as to determine whether an actual extravasation of blood exists or merely hypostatic congestion), and signs of decomposition. These various phenomena may assist in determining the time when death occurred. It must be remembered that careless handling of a body after death may cause both external and internal injuries, or allow the contents of the stomach to find their way into the air- passages. Internal Examination.—Open the thorax and examine the heart in situ, then proceed to any cavity or part which is injured or in which you suspect to find the cause of death. Examine every cavity and all organs. (Unless specially indicated, e.g. in the case of certain poisons, and in death from tetanus, it is not essential in every case to examine the spinal cord.) The medical report should be written out at once and transmitted to the procurator-fiscal within two days. Both medical examiners must sign it; if they disagree, each must send a separate report.