MIND, EDUCATION OF THE 427 it is in cultivating the olfactory and visual senses. The songs of birds, the cawing of crows, the mooing of cows, etc. may be brought into play to develop the auditory tract of the brain. As to the visual sense, the objects that appeal to it are very numerous, for we must remember that most objects appeal to sight, and only a small number comparatively to hearing, taste, or smell. Wild flowers, garden flowers, the colour and shape of birds and fruits, animals, etc. will all help to educate the visual sense. For the training of all these senses, with the exception of that of sight, the child should be blindfolded, and then asked to name the objects that he touches, hears, tastes, or smells. It is not only necessary to educate the special sense centres by presenting to them various objects, but in order to make the modification of them more distinct and permanent, images of these objects must be recalled. Ribot (5) says: "If, with closed eyes, we keep for a length of time an image of very lively colours before the imagination, and then opening the eyes suddenly we fix them upon a white surface, we see thereon for an instant the image con- templated in imagination, but in the comple- mentary colour. This fact, as is observed by Wundt, from whom we borrow it, proves that the nerve action is the same in the two cases— in the sense perception and in the memory." It is by the recalling of images that the memory is trained. Of course when images are recalled there is some change in the brain cells, probably in their molecular arrangement, as when the senses were stimulated, but not so intense. In order then that the brain may obtain permanent, and so a lasting niemory, it will be necessary to recall the images as often as possible. The more often we think of a thing the more firmly is it retained in the memory. As Comenius says, ''^ Bepetitio memorioe pater et mater est." In connection with this fact it must be re- membered that from the tenth to the fourteenth year memory is stronger than at any other period of life. As regards attention, it is quite certain that if this faculty is not developed no improvement in the child's mind can take place. There are two kinds of it, the reflex or involuntary and the voluntary. When the activity is called forth by an external stimulus, such as the slamming of a door or a flash of lightning, it is termed reflex or involuntary; but when the activity is commenced by the mind itself it is called voluntary. In the latter case we are conscious of an effort, and more severe drafts are made upon the brain than in involuntary attention. If we are listening for an approaching footstep, the voluntary attention so centred makes the brain cells in the auditory centres more sensitive to sound, and the same may be said with reference to the other centres. This preparation of the mind to receive a certain form of experience is by psychologists called pre-adjustment of attention. Mental work, however, uses up the energy in nerve cells and causes fatigue. There is no doubt of this, as it has been proved to be true by the experiments of Hodge and others. Long hours in school or in mental work do not favour the development, at any rate, of memory. Ribot says: " Fatigue in every shape is fatal to memory. The impressions received under such conditions are not fixed, and the reproduction of them is very laborious and often impossible. Now, fatigue is regarded as a state wherein, owing to the over-activity of an organ, the nutrition suffers and halts. When the normal conditions are restored memory comes back again." It is therefore necessary that subjects should be frequently changed, for in the same way that change of position in a limb will enable it to do more work, so a change of subject, which involves a different direction being given to the attention, enables additional mental effort to be made. Not only, however, should the subjects be frequently changed, but more play and manual work, and less continuous mental work, would probably give better results. Mr. Edwin Chadwick, who has studied the subject, is of opinion that children from seven to eight years of age should not work more than from 2^ to 3 hours a day; those from eight to ten years old, from 3 to 3^ hours ; from ten to twelve, about 4 hours; from twelve to fifteen, between 5 and 6 hours; and from fifteen to eighteen never more than 8 hours, sufficient time being given for recreation out of these times. In elementary schools he says that children who only attend as half-timers progress quite as much as those who attend full time. As regards motor training, it must be re- membered that the products of sensations affect motor centres, and action is the result. When sensation is excited movement ensues; this fact alone shows that sensory training is the cause of motor development. If motor reactions do not follow sensations primarily or in the form of memory images, we know we have to deal with an imperfectly developed brain. A man seeing a lamp-post, for example, and avoiding it, is an instance of a sensation taking a motor action and influencing the muscles. This may be called a primary motor reaction, but reactions also occur when excited by memory images, as when, for instance, we imagine a very high mountain, movements in the muscles control- ling the eyes will occur. Kulpe says : " Move- ments are everywhere important. It is perhaps not too much to say that a voluntary recollec- tion never takes place without their assistance. When we think of intense cold our body is thrown into tremulous movement, as in shiver- ing ; when we imagine an extent of space our eyes move as they would in surveying it; when we recall a rhythm we mark its rise and fall