1 VOL. VI ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAEY OF MEDICINE AND SUKGEEY Lumbar Reg'ion, The. Anatomy ...... 1 Examination ..... 2 Pain ...... 2 Injuries ...... 2 Diseases ...... 3 Anatomy.—More than thirty subdivisions of the abdomen have been described, but that of Cunningham's seems the most simple and natural; in it the abdomen is divided into areas by two vertical and two horizontal planes, the vertical planes passing through the middle of Pou part's ligaments, the horizontal planes being at the level of the lower costal margins and the highest part of the iliac crests respec- tively. The lumbar areas are those situated between the horizontal lines and external to the vertical lines, and their posterior boundary may be represented by a line drawn through the vertebral spines. Normally, the contents of the right lumbar region are the ascending colon, part of the right kidney, and part of the ileum; of the left lumbar region, the descend- ing colon, part of the great omentum, part of the left kidney, and part of the jejunum. At times, a kidney when floating may either be found in some other region, or be made to leave the lumbar region. It should not be forgotten that the pleura sometimes extends below the margin of the twelfth rib, when it comes to lie very near the lumbar area. The anatomy of the lumbar region is best understood by study- ing the arrangement of the lumbar fascia. This fascia occupies the interval between, and is attached to the twelfth rib and the cartilage of the eleventh rib above, while below it is attached to the posterior third of the crest of the ilium. Anteriorly, the fascia gives attach- ment to, and forms the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle; posteriorly, it splits into three layers or lamellae, the posterior layer being attached to the tips of the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and gives origin to the latissimus dorsi, serratus posticus inferior, and internal oblique muscles. Between this layer and the middle one, which is attached to the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, lies the erector spinae, while the quadratus lumborum lies between the middle and the anterior lamellae, the latter of which is attached to the bodies and roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The psoas muscle lies in front of the anterior lamella, a fact to be borne in mind when tracing the course of a " psoas " abscess. The upper- most portion of the anterior lamella is attached to the lower border of the twelfth rib, and is known as the ligamentum arcuatum externum. The posterior border of the external oblique muscle extends from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, and it is occasionally overlapped by the latissimus dorsi, though generally a tri- angular interval exists between the two muscles near the crest of the ilium, in which lies a portion of the internal oblique; this interval, known as Petit's triangle, is bounded in front by the external oblique, behind by the latissimus dorsi, and below by the crest of the ilium ; while a portion of the internal oblique forms the floor, which is pushed in front of the sac of a lumbar hernia. The lumbar arteries and nerves are arranged similarly to those in the dorsal region, but they interfere with the integrity of the lumbar fascia when they penetrate it in their course, and it is probably through these penetrations that deep collections of pus find their way to the surface. There is a considerable amount of subcutaneous areolar tissue in the lumbar region which favours the accumulation of large quantities of pus, and in stout individuals there may be a lai'ge deposit of fat, especially in the posterior part of this area. The thickness of the skin and the