490 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE legs are now extended, and the feet are gradu- ally brought nearer the hands, the head being placed well down between the arms, so that a large part of the weight of the trunk is sup- ported by the arms. The position is now such that the patient is standing with the trunk bent forward and supported by the hands on the ground, and the iinal stage of the manoeuvre is to raise the body on the thighs. This is done by the process known as " climbing up the legs," the hands being placed first on the leg, then on the thigh, thus elevating the trunk into the erect position. Certain deformities are met with in these cases. There is often some spinal curvature due to the weakness of the muscles of the back. The feet, owing to the contraction of the calf muscles, tend to assume a position of equinus, and at the same time the foot becomes inverted. The electrical excita- bility of the muscles is greatly diminished both to the faradic and galvanic current; there is never any reaction of degeneration. There is no afi^ection of the bladder or rectum. The superficial reflexes are, as a rvile, preserved; the knee-jerks are generally lost early, but this depends on the condition of the quadriceps extensor, and especially on that of the vastus internus. The progress of the disease is slow ; when, however, the patient loses the power of walking, weakness tends to increase rather rapidly. The final stage of the disease is one of atrophy and contraction. It should, how- ever, be mentioned that the disease sometimes runs its whole course without any hypertrophy; the cases, however, still have distinctive features, viz., the atrophy of the lower portion of the pectoralis major and the comparatively large infraspinati. Death is generally due to some pulmonary affection. (3) Facio-Scajmlo-Humeral Type (Landouzy- Dejerine).—This disease tends to affect both sexes alike, and is transmitted either by male or female. The age of onset is subject to great variation, some cases occurring in earliest child- hood, while others have come on in middle life. The following description, taken from a mother and son who were affected, gives a fairly good idea of the type:—The first thing that was noticed wrong was that the child when nine months old slept with his eyes open at night. When about two years old, having learnt to walk, it was noticed that he could not blow a toy trumpet unless the corners of the mouth were held, and that whenever he was taken out in the wind the tears ran down his cheeks; for this latter affection he was treated by the slit- ting up of the canaliculi. The child learnt to walk at the ordinary age, but was always thin. The child first came under observation when five years old, and the appearance of the face was very striking; it was expressionless and almost motionless, the mouth was long and held slightly open. The frontalis could not be moved ; the eyes could be closed with exertion, but the slightest pressure of the finger was able to prevent this and to open them when closed. The teeth could not be shown, and a smile was only indicated by a slight downward movement of the corners of the mouth. The cheeks could not be blown out, and the child could make no attempt to whistle. The tongue could /be well protruded ; the palate acted well, the rriasseters acted powerfully, and the ocular mov^iments were good. The appearance of the shoulders, as seen in the mother in whom the disease was more advanced, was striking. They were sloping, and the upper angle of the scapula could be seen from the front projecting midway between the tip of the shoulder and the line of the neck. The patient could not raise the hand to the head except by swinging it round to the back of the neck, and then " climbing " on to the head. There was great weakness of the serratus magnus, as manifested by the marked "winging" of the scapula when the arms were put out in front. There was wasting of the whole of the trapezius, the rhomboids, and the latissimus dorsi; but the infra- and supra-spinati and the deltoids were well de- veloped, the biceps and triceps were weak, and the pectoralis major was also affected. The muscles of the forearm and hand were well developed and strong. The muscles of the trunk and neck are only involved late in the disease. The muscles of the leg most commonly affected are the glutei and the muscles of the thigh; the peronei muscles are sometimes affected. Like all the other forms of this group, the muscles show no reaction of the degeneration on electrical examination, but simply a relative decrease. There is no altera- tion in sensation, and no affection of the sphincters. The course of the disease is ex- tremely slow. A child in whom facial weakness is present may show no marked weakness in the limbs till nearly twenty years old, and even then the progress of the disease is so slow that by thirty-five he is still able to keep at work. Often the disease seems to come to an absolute standstill. The knee-jerks are present so long as the quadriceps remains good. Pathological Anatomy. — The pathological anatomy applies to all the types included under the heading Idiopathic muscular ati-ophy and hypertrophy. It may be stated that no lesion can be found either in the spinal cord, the anterior or posterior roots, the peripheral nerves, or in either the finer motor or sensory fibres passing to the muscles. The muscles alone show any pathological change, although it must be mentioned that Babes has shown that changes exist in the motor end plates. The muscles to the naked eye appear either pale and resemble a mass of fat, or have a brown, firm, and hard appearance. On section of a muscle it is seen that there is a great in-