450 MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS The Cocaine Habit is of more recent growth than that of morphia. The drug was only regularly introduced into medicine between twenty and thirty years ago, but already its victims are numerous, and to be found far and near. In even its legitimate employment it appears to be a more dangerous drug than morphia. The great frequency of very alarming symp- toms, and the large number of deaths recorded after its administration called forth an import- ant " leader " from the British Medical Journal in 1889, pointing out its dangers and how they were manifested, with numerous cases as ex- amples, and information regarding antagonistic drugs. As an enslaving drug it appears to be the most insidious, the most rapid in its conquest, the most demoralising in its elfects, and the most permanent in the marks it leaves upon the few emancipated ones. As to the way in which the habit is acquired, there are two principal methods :— The first and most important, as being the worst, is that in which it is used as a substitute for the morphia habit. The condition of affairs in such a case is, as Erlenmeyer aptly puts it, like the man out of whom a devil having been cast, went and took unto himself seven other devils worse than the first. The picture of the morphinomaniac, lurid and depressing though it is, is but a feeble, hazy outline beside that of the cocaine madman. A physician who had been an opium-eater for several years substituted hypodermic in- jections of cocaine ; he soon got delusions of persecutions, hallucinations of sight and hear- ing, loss of memory, muscular inco-ordination, and aphasia (Philadel. Med. News, January 7, 1894). Another physician substituted cocaine for morphia, and soon became a mental and physical wreck, having to give up his profession and retire to a home where he could be under control, and where he was unable to obtain the drug. Another method is by its abuse as a true medicinal agent, either where in a really painful affection it is repeatedly taken for relief of this condition and then cannot be given up, or where it is taken for some trivial complaint such as sore throat, coryza, etc., and insidiously constitutes itself a necessity. As an example of the former may be given the case of a woman, formerly a nurse, who injected herself with cocaine for sciatica, and continued its use till it became a " habit"; a dose of 16 grains brought about collapse and almost death. The medical man who was then called to see her discovered that she obtained the drug regularly "from an unqualified druggist" {B. M. J., 1889, ii. 750). With respect to the latter cause Dr. Lennox Browne writes a warning against cocaine lozenges, sprays for the nose, and such like; and says: " None but those specially occupied in laryngology and ophthalmology can have an idea of the extent to which excessive indulgence in cocaine is carried." Dr. Zangger of Ziirich relates the case of an English lady who was in the habit of taking about 30 grains of cocaine daily. Two years before she had been given a prescription containing 48 grains of cocaine in 2 ounces, as an application for her gums; she continued its use and swallowed it. As the bottle lasted only thirty-six hours, she took about 30 grains a day. In addition she took 20 to 30 grains of chloral hydrate every night to induce sleep. Her condition was one of extreme nervous prostration, morally and mentally affected, with periods of extreme depression followed by undue brightness and activity, and with now and then hysterical paralysis which lasted for one or two days. He gradually reduced the drug to 9 grains daily, but then she suddenly left his care, and resumed her habit {B. M. J., 1896, ii. 123). Again, a father kept and took a solution of cocaine which he had originally obtained (with- out prescription) for toothache. His daughter, having toothache, went and took a dose of this. She swallowed about 2 drams at 6.30 and died at 7.30. It was a 10 per cent solution; she had taken about 12 grains {B. M. J., 1895, ii. 1162). A druggist commenced his habit by using a 4 per cent solution as a nasal spray, and gradually increased its strength till he used 7 grains at a sitting, and presented all the symptoms of a regular habitu^ {Philadel. Med. News, January 7, 1894). A medical man first used a 4 per cent solution as a nasal spray. He continued it for its stimulating eff"ects, and soon became a victim to the habit {ibid.). The reasons for the danger of these methods of use of the drug are well pointed out by Dr. Lennox Browne. He shows that the drug after long use loses its analgesic effects; that though at first promoting salivary secretion it later causes abnormal dryness of the nose and throat; that though at first it relieves the engorgement of the mucous membrane of the turbinated bones, its prolonged use leads either to anaemia and atrophy, or to increase in the intensity and chronicity of the hypersemia. Perhaps the most insidious method of getting into the " habit" is by means of medicated drinks and sweets, such as wines, cocoas, voice lozenges, and the like. Dr. Milner Fothergill, in the Practitioner's Handbook of Treatment, says : " Coca wines, and other medicated wines, are largely consumed by people who consider themselves total abstainers." What wonder at this when in our leading medical journal the public read its testimonials of these abominations, e.g. : " The