130 MALARIA II. Cariol-Thionin Formula. Thionin blue . . .1-5 grammes. Absolute alcohol . .10 c.cs. Aqueous solution of carbolic acid .... 5%—100 c.cs. Dissolve. It should be kept some days and filtered before use. It requires to be diluted with three parts of distilled water. Stain the specimen for ten minutes, wash, dry, and mount in xylol-canada balsam. The protoplasm of the parasite stains a purple colour, and the red corpuscles a pale greenish-blue, so that a good conti'ast is obtained. The nucleolus of the parasite stains intensely. III. RomanowsJcy Method Formula. Aqueous solution of pure medi- cinal methylene blue . . 10%—4 c.cs. Aqueous solution of eosin (red shade) .... 1%—10 c.cs. This method gives excellent results. It re- quires care, and it is not recommended for ordinary clinical purposes on account of the time that the staining takes. Both stains should be kept for one day and filtered before use. Add 10 c.cs. of the eosin solution to 4 c.cs. of the methylene blue solution. Stir them to- gether for five minutes, when a dense copious precipitate forms. This must not be filtered out. Fix a cover-glass blood film in absolute alcohol in the usual way. Place it in a watch- glass, blood surface downwards. Pour the stain on to it, and see that the cover-glass is completely covered. The staining takes from three-quarters of an hour to two hours. Wash thoroughly in a stream of distilled water. Re- move any excess of water from the specimen by applying a piece of blotting-paper to the edges of cover-glass. Dip it three or four times in a jar of absolute alcohol, and then three or four times into a second jar of alcohol. Finally, clear in xylol and mount in xylol-canada balsam. The red corpuscles are stained a bright red, and the parasites and nuclei of the leucocytes a blue colour. A third chromatin stain is produced by the special proportion of methylene blue to eosin used, which stains the nucleolar matter of the parasites a beautifully deep carmine colour.^ Laveran has recently introduced a modification of this method. See Instructions a Vusage, des medecins, des naturalists, et des voyageurs, par R. Blanchard. IV. Louis Jenner's Staining and Fixing Fluid The method of making this stain will be found in the Lancet, 11th February 1899. It can be obtained ready for use in the form of 1 The proper stains for the Romanowsky method may be obtained from Meister Lucius and Bruniug, 51 St. Mary Axe, London. powder. It is prepared by mixing solutions of eosin and methylene blue, collecting the result- ing precipitate, washing it, and finally dissolving in absolute methylic alcohol. The specimens do not require to be fixed before staining. The staining takes from four to five minutes. The preparation is then washed thoroughly in dis- tilled water, dried and mounted in the usual way. The parasites and nuclei of the leucocytes stain blue ; the red corpuscles, pink. Methods of Demonstrating the Gametes and Flagellated Bodies.—Malaria is an infectious disease, and it is the gamete cells in the blood which, after passing through a series of changes in the Anopheles, carry the infection from man to man. The individual in whom these bodies are present is a source of danger to his fellows, and in the near future this fact will be so well appreciated that microscopical examination of blood will become as general as the use of clinical thermometers in malarious countries. It must not be forgotten that the gamete cells are found in the blood not only during the period of convalescence, but often long after febrile symptoms have disappeared. It is well to have some ready and rapid method by which these gamete cells can be recognised. The following is a good method :—Prepare and prick the finger in the usual way, squeeze out as large a drop of blood as possible, apply a slide to it and spread out with a needle in a thick layer. Allow the blood to dry in the air, and after fixing in alcohol transfer it to weak acetic acid until the haemoglobin has been dissolved out. Wash in water, and stain by any of the methods above described. The leucocytes and the ma- larial parasites only will be stained. With a little practice the gametes can be recognised with a \ objective. It is not necessary to apply a cover-glass unless a permanent preparation is desired. In ordinary fresh blood preparations the flagella are not, as a rule, evolved from the micro-gametocytes for some time—even an hour or longer. There are two ways in which the evolution can be hastened. One is Marshall's method, which consists in placing a droplet of water, or better, by breathing on the slide before applying the cover-glass. The other is Ross's method, in which the blood is allowed to remain on the finger, exposed to the air for one or two minutes before applying the cover- glass. In practice it is a good plan to combine both of these methods, exflagellation will then occur within a few minutes. It takes place more rapidly with the benign than with the malignant gametes. In order to stain the flagellated bodies the blood must be allowed to remain in a moist chamber for at least twenty minutes, so as to ensure the presence of the flagella. A good moist chamber can be im- provised by cutting a number of holes, 1 inch and ^ inch, in a sheet of stout blotting-paper.