408 MIDWIVES Forms III. and IV. may be signed "either by a registered medical practitioner or by the Chief Midwife, or, in the absence of such an officer, by the matron of an institution recog- nised by the Board, or, in the case of a poor-law institution, by the matron, being a Midwife certified under the Midwives Act, or a super- intendent nurse, certified in like manner, and appointed under the Nursing-in-Workhouses Order, 1897, and attached to such an institution, or by a Midwife certified under the Midwives Act and approved by the Board for the purpose." Form V. must be signed by a registered medical practitioner recognised by the Board as a teacher. Having satisfied the Board regarding these matters, the candidate gives notice to the secretary of the C.M.B. of her intention to enter for the next examination at least three weeks before the date fixed for that examination, and pays the necessary fee (one guinea for the first appearance, and fifteen shillings if she have previously appeared and failed to pass). The examinations (the dates of the holding of which are publicly announced) are partly oral and practical and partly written, and a want of acquaintance with the ordinary subjects of elementary education may be sufficient ground for rejection. The following subjects are in- cluded in the examination : («) The elementary anatomy of the female pelvis and generative organs; (b) pregnancy and its principal com- plications, including abortion ; (c) the symp- toms, mechanism, course and management of natural labour; (d) the signs that a labour is abnormal; (e) hajmorrhage: its varieties and the treatment of such ; (/) antiseptics in mid- wifery and the way to prepare and use them; (g) the management of the puerperal patient, including the use of the clinical thermometer and of the catheter; (h) the management (including the feeding) of infants, and the signs of the diseases which may develop during the first ten days; (i) the duties of the midwife as described in the regulations; (j) obstetric emergencies and how the midwife should deal with them imtil the arrival of a doctor. This will include some knowledge of the drugs commonly needed in such cases, and of the mode of their administration (vide Regidation of Practice of Ifidwives); (Z-) puerperal fevers : their nature, causes, and symptoms; (l) the disinfection of person, clothing and appliances; (m) the principles of hygiene as regards the home, food-supply, and person ; and (n) the care of children born apparently lifeless. If the candidate successfully passes her examination, she shall have her name entered by the secretary on the Roll of Midwives (which is alphabetical, is printed in one single list, and is published annually), having received a cer- tificate the wording of which is as follows (vide Form II.) :— Form II.—Central Midwives Board. (2 Edw. 7. c. 17.) No Date We hereby certify that having passed the examination of the Central Midwives Board, and having otherwise complied with the rules and regula- tions laid down in pursuance of the Midwives Act, 1902, is entitled by law to practise as a midwife in accordance with the provisions of the said Act and subject to the said rules and regulations. I Members I of the ) Board. Secretary. She has now the right to place after her name the words "Certified Midwife," but no abbrevia- tion in the form of initial letters (e.g. CM., or, still less, C.M.B.) is permitted, or any other description of the qualification. Regulation, Restriction, and Supervision op THE Practice of Midwives.—The Central Mid- wives Board has laid down certain directions to midwives regarding their persons, their instru- ments, and their duties. The supervision of the midwives is carried out by the local supervising authority, which in some large towns (e.g. in Manchester) employs an Executive Officer (who may be a qualified medical woman, as in Man- chester) to see that the requirements of the Act are fulfilled, i.e. to visit the midwives systemati- cally and irregularly; to inspect their homes, dresses, and bag of appliances; to see that their records are properly kept; to take charge of notifications of still-births, of deaths in women or child before a medical practitioner is called in, of puerperal fevers, and of other infectious diseases; to inspect the mode of practice of midwives as occasion, offers; to record all breaches of the rules, etc. (a) Directions concerning the Person of the Midwife and her Appliances. — The midwife must be scrupulously clean in every way, because the smallest particle of decomposing material may set up puerperal fevers. She must wear a dress of washable material, and over it a clean washable apron; the sleeves of the dress should be so made that they can be tucked well up over the elbows. When she is engaged to attend a labour, she ought to pay a visit to the patient at her own house before the confinement and advise as to the personal and general arrangements prepara- tory to the lying-in. An important rule is the following:—A midwife who is attending any case which is septic or in which there are foul- smelling discharges, must not go to another case without first changing her dress and thoroughly cleansing and disinfecting her hands and fore- arms and such appliances as she may have had