MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 469 some of the permanent teeth appear, namely, those of the permanent teeth which actually replace the milk teeth. About the sixteenth week a small downgrowth of epithelium grows from the funicular band above described, and develops into the enamel organ of the corre- sponding permanent teeth. From the funicvilar band of these permanent teeth another down- growth of epithelium may occur. In the human subject this rarely forms a tooth, but represents the rudimentary third dentition. It will be seen from this description that some of the epithelium cells that grow down do not persist, nor form any definite structure. It used to be assumed that these cells simply atrophied; it seems, however, that they persist, and may be found in the adult jaw in three groups. There are various tumours which seem to be formed from some portion or other of the dental follicle or from the apparently useless masses of epi- thelium cells above described. They may be classified as follows :— 1. Follicular Odontomes.—Under this heading three kinds of cysts may be described. (a) Dental cysts, which contain neither a tooth nor the rudiment of a tooth. They are met with more frequently in the upper than in the lower jaw, and generally in connection with the incisor or canine teeth. They may grow to a large size, and produce more or less absorption of the outer wall of the maxilla. (b) Dentigerous cysts, which contain one or more teeth in their interior or in their wall. The teeth may be well formed or may be quite rudi- mentary, consisting of irregular masses of bone and enamel. (c) Multilocular Cysts.—There is considerable difference of opinion upon the nature of these cysts, but in all probability they originate in connection with some part of the dental follicle. 2. Epithelial Odontomes. — These probably originate from some of the bands of epithelial cells above described. According to Bland Sutton they occur most frequently about the twentieth year. They are encapsuled at first; when the overlying mucous membrane ulcerates the capsule is destroyed, and they may then resemble epithelioma. If left, they erode and destroy the surrounding bone. 3. Radicular Odontomes.—This term is ap- plied by Bland Sutton to odontomes which arise after the crown of the tooth has been completed, and while the roots are in the process of forma- tion. As the crown of the tooth is completed in development the resulting odontome is devoid of any enamel, and consists either of dentine alone, or of cementum, or of a combination of both. 4. Composite Odontomes.—Bland Sutton de- fines these as consisting of hard tooth tumours which bear little or no resemblance in shape to teeth, but consist of a conglomeration of enamel, dentine, and cementum. Tumours of the Jaws.—Both the upper and lower jaws are the seats of tumours of the ordinary kinds such as are met with in other parts of the skeleton. They form naturally into two growths, the simple and the malignant. The description will apply equally well to whichever jaw is affected. There are three well-recognised non-malignant tumours in the jaws. 1. Fibroma.—This closely resembles fibromata occurring elsewhere. It nearly always occurs in the region of the alveolus. When arising from the alveolus adjacent to the antrum it may project into that cavity and appear to be grow- ing in it. These fibromata are considered by Bland Sutton to be of the same origin as the odontomes. Some people consider that they may result from chronic inflammation around the apex of a tooth. They are easily removed. 2. Fnchond?-oma of the upper jaw is rare. Cartilaginous tumours are much more common, originating in other bones of the face. If allowed to progress they may reach an enormous size. They easily shell out and do not recur. 3. Osteoma.—Various bony outgrowths of the jaws occur. It has already been mentioned that they may occur as a result of syphilis. It may be convenient here to mention the remarkable disease known as leontiasis ossea. This disease causes an extraordinary thickening of the bones of the skull and the jaws, to which it is generally confined. It is especially prone to aff'ect the superior maxillae, but it also affects the lower jaw. All parts of the bone are thick and dense, and outgrowths from the bone pro- ject into and obliterate all the air-spaces of the skull. The antrum is usually obliterated, the nasal fossae are blocked up, the orbits are en- croached upon, and the eyeballs displaced. The disease appears during childhood and pro- gresses very slowly; the first indication of deformity is usually in the protuberant masses from the maxillse forming a swelling in each cheek. It is suggested that it may be some form of rickets. No curative treatment is known. Any protuberance may be chiselled off if thought advisable. (See also " Leontiasis Ossea," vol. v. p. 381.) We may here mention the fact that acromegaly is a disease which specially affects the superior maxilla as well as other bones of the body. For a full description of the disease, see vol. i. Malignant Tumours.—-T!\vo malignant growths occur in the jaws, sarcoma and carcinoma, the former being much more common. Sarcoma.—This is the only malignant growth which commences in the substance of the jaw itself. It seems to originate in two ways—either in the bone itself, when it is termed central sarcoma, or in the periosteum, when it is termed peripheral or periosteal sarcoma. The central growths are often myeloid sarcoma. Carcinoma.—In the upper jaw carcinoma