MYASTHENIA GRAVIS 495 are not diagnosed. Since myasthenia gravis is often fatal, since it is often mistaken for hysteria, and since its recognition may be the means of averting a fatal termination, the disease assumes an importance out of all pro- portion to the frequency of its occurrence. Historical.—In 1877, Wilks reported a fatal case of bulbar paralysis, in which, although a careful microscopical examination of the medulla was made, no pathological lesion was found. In 1878-79, Erb drew attention to several cases of what he called "a new symptom-complex, probably of bulbar origin," and remarked upon the course of the disease, the presence of ptosis and of weakness of the neck and jaw muscles as points distinguishing it from the ordinary form of progressive bulbar palsy. Oppenheim, who in 1887 described a case of chronic pro- gressive bulbar paralysis without post-mortem "findings," drew attention to the absence of muscular atrophy and of corresponding electrical changes. In this case the pons, medulla, cranial nerve roots, spinal cord, tongue and hypoglossal nerve, the right biceps muscle and the nerve branches entering it, were examined micro- scopically, but nothing abnormal was met with. Hoppe, in 1892, by analysing the symptoms which the cases of Wilks, Eisenlohr, and Oppenheim presented, materially contributed to the recognition of the disease as a distinct clinical entity, and he was the first writer to suggest a toxic origin for the disease. Goldflam, in 1893, pointed out the ease with which the muscles become exhausted by voluntary effort, a fact not hitherto insisted on ; he also showed that the disease was curable (temporarily'?). Jolly, in 1894, demonstrated the myasthenic reaction, which will be described later. Striim- pell, in 1895, reviewed the literature and col- lected twenty cases which had been reported up to that time. Some eighty cases have now been placed on record. Etiology.—-Males and females suffer almost equally. Although the disease may occur at any age, it is most common between twenty and forty, women being attacked at a somewhat earlier age than men. A neuropathic history, either in the patient himself or in his family, was present in about a quarter of the recorded cases. No instance has been reported in which two members of the same family have been affected with the disease. Four or five times, the presence of some congenital abnormality (unilateral ptosis, a bifurcated uvula, an extra digit) has been noted, a point on which Oppenheim lays considerable stress in reference to the pathology of the disease. No class of society is exempt, although the disease appears to be rather more frequent among manual workers. Five of the recorded cases occurred in teachers. Not infrequently the symptoms have followed upon an infective disease (in- fluenza, typhoid, scarlet fever, etc.). Ansemia was present in several cases. In five or six instances the patient was subject to megrim, while more than once Graves' disease has been noted as a complication. Muscular over- exertion is not uncommonly mentioned as a cause of the disease. The onset of menstrua- tion, a confinement, a chill, emotional excitement, an attack of diarrhoea, and acute intestinal obstruction have been blamed in individual cases. Symptomatology.—The most prominent feature of this disease is the facility with which the muscles become fatigued by voluntary effort. The term myasthenic state seems applicable to this phenomenon. A voluntary movement which is at first perfectly carried out, becomes rapidly feebler each time it is repeated; finally, if persisted in, all power of performing the movement may be lost; after a short rest the movement can be again performed with almost as much power as on the first attempt. A variable degree of persistent paresis is often present in the affected muscles. This paresis is usually slight, but sometimes amounts to a complete paralysis {e.g. complete ophthalmo- plegia externa), and probably represents a more advanced stage of the myasthenic state, in which the recuperative power of the neuro- motor apparatus is especially impaired. Although the disease sometimes develops suddenly, a gradual mode of onset is the rule. Usually the initial symptoms are referable to one or two groups of muscles. As the disease progresses, it shows a tendency to affect all the voluntary muscles to a greater or less extent. In many cases, the external ocular muscles are the first to suffer; hence the ptosis and diplopia which so commonly occur as early symptoms. In some cases the weakness first appears in the limbs; in others, difficulty in articulation, in mastication, or in deglutition, first attracts attention. In pronounced cases of myasthenia gravis, the facies is pathognomonic. The face is mask- like and expressionless. The immobility of the lips when the patient speaks is very striking. Bilateral ptosis is usually present, though often slight in degree. Not infrequently the move- ments of the external ocular muscles are defective; occasionally there is complete ophthal- moplegia externa. Very characteristic alterations in speech occur. As the patient continues speaking, his speech becomes nasal, his articulation in- distinct, and he requires to take a breath after every two or three words. Finally, speech may become quite unintelligible. Weakness of the jaw muscles renders masti- cation difficult or impossible. Difficulty in swallowing is a source, not only of incon- venience, but of grave danger to the patient, for in a considerable number of the reported cases death was due to an attack of choking.