MUREXIDE TEST 477 Murexide Test. — Murexide (Lat. murex, the purple-fish), the ammonium salt of purpuric acid, is used in testing for uric acid, because the latter heated with nitric acid is oxidised to alloxantin and this strikes a purple colour with ammonia yielding murexide. See Physiology, Excretion {Uric Acid); Uric Acid {Tests for Detection of). Muriate.—A salt of hydrochloric acid, a chloride; the term muriate is not now often used. Murmurs. See Anaemia {Symptoms, Bruit deDiahle); Aneurysm {Signs and Symptoms, Bruit); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Ausculta- tion) ; Bruit ; Chlorosis {Cardiac and Vascular Murmurs); Heart, Affections of Myocardium AND Endocardium {Physical Examination of the Heart, Murmurs); Lungs, Tuberculosis of {Physical Signs of Vomica Formation). Murodine. See Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Exciting Causes, Decomposing Meat). Murphy's Button. — An apparatus consisting of two button-like parts (male and female), each of which has a hollow stem and one of which carries a spring flange ; it is used for bringing together the two halves of the bowel in cases of intestinal anastomosis, e.g. in the operation for intestinal obstruction. The one end of the bowel is passed over the one button and the other over the other, and the two stems are pressed together; the constant pres- sure in time causes necrosis of the tissues, and the closed button is set free and discharged by the rectum and anus. See Intestines, Sur- gical Affections of {Intestinal Obstruction, Treatment). Murr£lin.—Any serious disease of cattle and sheep, especially foot and mouth disease(g'.v.). Mii rren. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Stvitzerland). MuSCa Domestica.—The housefly; the swallowing of its larvse may produce gastro- intestinal myiasis. See Myiasis {Intestinal). MuSCaS Volitantes.—Floating specks seen when the gaze is directed to imiformly lighted surfaces, e.g. white clouds; they are due to opacities in the media of the eyes. See Choroid, Diseases of {Choroiditis, Symptoms); Eye, Clinical Examination of {Symptomatology, Spots before the Eyes). Muscarine. —An alkaloid, C5H15NO3, found in poisonous fungi, e.g. the Agaricus muscarius (often mistaken for the edible Agari- cus campestris); it causes vomiting, diarrhoea, cramps, and collapse, but, owing to its emetic action, it is not often fatal. See Toxicology {Fungi). MuSCidae.—Flies. See Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites). Muscles, Diseases of the. 1. Myalgia 478 2. Rupture of Muscle . . .479 3. Congenital Absence of Muscle . 479 4. Changes in Muscle due to Circu- latory Disturbances . . .479 5. Degeneration of Muscle . . 481 6. Inflammatory Diseases of Muscle— A. Primary Affection of Muscles— (1) Polymyositis, various forms . 481 (2) Nexiromyositis . . . 483 (3) Tuberculous Myositis . . 484 (4) Syphilitic Myositis . . 484 (5) Myositis due to Trichina . 484 B. Secondary Affection of Muscles fol- lowing Pycemia, Gonorrhcea, etc. 485 C. Myositis Ossificans . . . 486 7. New Growth in Muscle . . . 486 8. Myotonia Congenita — Thomsen's Disease 487 9. Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy and Hypertrophy .... 488 (1) Infantile Type .... 488 (2) Juvenile Type (Erb) . . .488 (3) Pseudo-hyp)ertrophic Typ)e . . 489 (4) Facio-Scajmlo-humeral Type (Lan- douzy-Dejerine) .... 490 10. Peroneal Type of Muscular Atro- phy (Charcot-Marie) . . .491 11. Progressive Muscular Atrophy in Infants (Hoff"mann) . . . 492 See also Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of {Inspection, Movements of Muscles); Ai^coholism {Chronic, Loss of Muscular Strength); Atrophy, Infantile {Symptoms, Muscular Twitchings); Axilla {Anatomy, Muscles); Beriberi {Symp- toms, Muscular Weakness); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of {Surgical Anatomy); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Paralysis, Rigidity of Muscles); Brain, Physiology of {Muscular Sense); Brain, Cerebellum, Affec- tions of {Disturbance of Muscular Sense); Burns and Scalds {Burns of Fifth Degree, Charring of Muscles); Chest-Wali^, Affections op {Affections of Muscles of Chest); Children, Clinical Examination of {J^eck and Back); Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, Cramps); De- formities ; Electricity {Galvanism, Reaction of Degeneration); Eyelids, Affections of {Aluscles, Spasm of Orbicularis, etc.); Fcetus, Develop- ment OF; Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus, Structure of); Gout {Irregular, Muscular Tissues); Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Affections of the Myocardium); Hydatid Disease ; Hypertrophy {Pseudo-hypertrophy); Hypnotism {Experimental, Phenomena, Changes in Muscular System); Hysteria {Muscular Atrophy); Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of {Affections of Muscles);