MIDWIVES 410 should be wrapped up in absorbent wool or iodoform gauze, and the dress should be loose but warm. In the puerperium the midwife should visit the patient regularly, take her pulse and temperature, ascertain if she have passed water, cleanse her external parts, and take a note of the amount and odour of the lochial discharge. The first visit should be made within twenty-four hours after the labour, and should be repeated each day for ten days. The midwife should regulate the patient's diet, and order a simple aperient when it is required. She must see to it that the nursing of the child is properly carried out. She should keep a daily record of these various matters. In addition to special rules for the manage- ment of the mother and child, the Board lays down the following general ones:—No midwife shall follow any occupation that is in its nature liable to be a source of infection, or shall (except under the circumstances hereinafter mentioned) undertake the duty of laying out the dead. In no case must a midwife lay out the body of any patient on whom she has not been in attendance at the time of death, or a body upon which a post-mortem examination has been made. A midwife will not transgress this rule if, at the discretion of the local supervising authority she—(a) Prepares for burial the body of a lying-in woman, a still-born child, or an infant dying within ten days; (6) lays out a dead body in a case of non-infectious illness, provided that she is not attending a midwifery case at the time. After laying out a dead body for burial she must undergo adequate cleansing and disinfection. This rule has been revised in the present year (1907), and now reads : " A midwife may prepare for burial the body of a still-born child, provided it is not putrid, if she carries out the following precautions directly after so doing. Her hands and nails must be scrubbed for five minutes in soap and water, and then, after being rinsed in plain water, they must be disinfected in 1-1000 solution of per- chloride of mercury for at least three minutes. She must put on a clean apron before attending any other case. If she does not carry out these precautions she will be held to have committed a breach of the rules. Some local supervising authorities require that no body, except as above stated, can be prepared for burial. Another revised rule is that relating to the giving of drugs. This rule now (1907) reads: " No drug other than a simple aperient or ergot may be given without orders from a doctor in attendance on the case." Formerly, other drugs could be given if they were noted in the midwife's register of cases, with the dose and the time and cause of their administration. Regulations regarding the Calling in of A Medical Practitioner.—The midwife is re- quired to send for medical help in certain cases. This rule necessitates the defining of a " normal labour," but the difficulty is overcome by re- garding it as one in which none of certain morbid conditions (specified below) are present. This is a definition by exclusion, but under the circumstances it is permissible. The general rule is as follows : " In all cases of abortion, of illness of the patient or child, or of any abnor- mality occurring during pregnancy, labour, or lying-in, a midwife must explain that the case is one in which the attendance of a registered medical practitioner is required, and must hand to the husband or nearest relative or friend present the form for sending for medical help properly filled up and signed by her, in order that this may be immediately forwarded to the medical practitioner. If for any reason the services of a registered medical practitioner be not available the midwife must, if the case be one of emergency, remain with the patient and do her best for her until the registered medical practitioner arrives or until the emergency is over. After having complied with the rule as to the summoning of medical assistance, the midwife will not incur any legal liability by remaining on duty and doing her best for the patient." A 1907 addition to this rule is to the effect that the midwife should notify im- mediately to the local supervising authority those cases where the relatives refuse to obtain medical assistance. This rule about sending for medical help is to apply to five groups of cases: " (1) In all cases in which a woman during Pregnancy, Labour, or Lying-in appears to be dying or is dead; (2) in the case of a Pregnant woman, if she be a dwarf or deformed, when there is loss of blood, and when there is any abnormality or complication, such as ex- cessive sickness, pufEness of hands or face, or dangerous varicose veins; (3) in the case of a woman in Labour at or near term, when there is any abnormality or complication, such as a malpresentation, a presentation other than the uncomplicated head or breech, where no presen- tation can be made out, where there is excessive bleeding, where two hours after the birth of the child the placenta and membranes have not been completely expelled, and in serious cases of rupture of the perineum or of other injuries of the soft parts; (4) in the case of a Lying-in woman when there is any abnormality or com- plication such as abdominal swelling and tender- ness, offensive lochia if persistent, rigor with raised temperature, rise of temperature above 100'4° F., with quickening of the pulse for more than twenty-four hours, unusual swelling of the breasts with local tenderness or pain, secondary post-partum haemorrhage, or white leg; and (5) in the case of the child when there is any abnormality or complication such as injuries received during birth, any malforma- tion or deformity in a child which seems likely to live, dangerous feebleness, inflammation of