497 MYASTHENIA GRAVIS rhages was not in accordance with the symptoms present during Hfe. Thirdly: The haemorrhages were of quite recent origin. Pathological changes in the medullary nuclei and anterior horn-cells have been described in two cases. In the case described by Murri, the changes were so slight as scarcely to warrant the term pathological, more especially since the post-mortem was delayed until six days after death; while the chromatolytic changes described by Widal and Marinesco in their case may be readily accounted for by the febrile condition present for some days before death. Changes suggesting a congenital defect of the nervous system were present in three cases. Thus Eisenlohr found a number of small fibres in the hypoglossal and some of the other motor nerve-roots, while in two other cases there was a double central canal. The upper motor neurons, peripheral nerves and muscles, when examined, have shown no pathological changes. I^.B.—Since this article was written a fatal case of myasthenia gravis has been described by D^jerine and Thomas {Revue neurologique, January 15, 1901, p. 3), in which the following conditions were met with on histological ex- amination :—A diminution of the nerve-cells in parts of the cerebral cortex {e.g. the left ascend- ing frontal convolution). The cell-bodies which persisted were reduced to rounded masses or to nuclei clothed with a thin layer of protoplasm. The neuroglia in this area was markedly in- creased. Scattered degenerations were found among the pyramidal nerve-fibres in their course through the bulb. The muscles of the tongue and larynx showed fatty degeneration, and the nerves supplying them were similarly affected. The nerve - fibres of the tangenital and projection systems appeared normal. No lesions could be found in the internal capsiiles, cerebral peduncles, basal ganglia, bulbar or spinal nuclei. Further observations are required to confirm the constancy of these changes. The following associated lesions have been met with in the other organs in individual instances, viz. :—Enlargement of the spleen; chronic interstitial nephritis; parenchymatous nephritis; miliary tubercle of the kidney; pulmonary tubercle ; a caseous bronchial gland ; a sarcoma of the anterior mediastinum ; myeloid sarcomata of the ribs associated with allaumo- suria, and, in a few cases, some enlargement of the thyroid gland. It is true, as Oppenheim remarks, in referring to these lesions, that they are morbid processes capable of introducing a toxic substance into the blood. But the total number of cases is so small and most of the above-mentioned changes so common, that it seems scarcely justifiable to lay much stress on their existence as playing a part in causing the disease. Pathology.—In the absence of a visible lesion VOL. VI to account for the symptoms, the seat of the lesion must of necessity remain a matter for speculation. Since the disease manifests itself exclusively by motor symptoms, the morbid process is in all probability confined to the motor neurons or to the muscles themselves. The suggestion that the lesion affects primarily the sympathetic system (Collins) seems to have little to support it. To regard the purely motor character of the symptoms as favouring an affection of the muscles as opposed to the nerves is clearly inadmissible, since certain diseases of the nervous system are known in which the symptoms are purely motor, and in which the lesion is confined to the motor neurons. The manner in which the myasthenic muscles respond to faradic and galvanic stimulation suggests an affection of the nerves rather than of the muscles. It has been shown in at least one case of myasthenia gravis that, if the muscular contractility is exhausted by faradism, a good muscular contraction can still be ob- tained by the direct application of the galvanic current to the muscles—the inference being, that it is the nerve - endings and not the muscular fibres which are actually functionless. The effect of emotional excitement in aggravat- ing the myasthenic state, and the occurrence of sudden attacks of dyspnoea, give support to the nervous origin of the disease. Further, it must be remembered that no disease of muscles is yet known which is un- associated with structural changes in the muscles themselves, while functional diseases of the nervous system are frequent. Although it is not possible, absolutely, to exclude the muscles, the bulk of the evidence is in favour of the nervous system being the seat of the lesion. It may be that both the upper and lower neurons are affected in varying degree. The flaccid nature of the paresis, the diminished faradic excitability which is some- times present, the myasthenic reaction, the attacks of dyspnoea and choking, all point to an affection of the lower as opposed to the upper neurons. As to the nature of the morbid process :— In many respects the myasthenic state re- sembles an exaggeration of normal physiological fatigiie. It seems to me that the phenomena of the diseases are best explained on the assumption that there exists an unstable con- dition of the motor neurons, as a result of which their capability of functional activity is reduced, so that they become exhausted more readily than in health, while their recuperative power may be at the same time diminished. Possibly this "condition" of the motor neurons is dependent i;pon a congenital "de- fect " in the neurons themselves. A more probable view would appear to be that a toxine, produced in the body consequent upon some 32