538 NEPHRITIS perform its normal eliminative function. It is far more probable that renal cirrhosis follows from the constant irritation of uric acid in the solid form within the substance of the kidney. Although allowing that gout may occasionally be consecutive to cirrhosis of the kidney, I hold that it is far more frequently to be regarded as the cause. It is mainly in recognition of the association of these conditions that most assurance offices are in the habit of charging an extra premium in cases of repeated gout. Dyspepsia. — Like the preceding condition, dyspepsia has been regarded both as the cause and as the result of renal cirrhosis. While admitting that disorders of digestion may frequently be responsible for transient forms of albuminuria, there is some doubt whether chronic renal affection is to be started in this way, or whether when prolonged dyspepsia is found to be accompanied by permanent slight albuminuria, dyspepsia is not to be looked upon as a symptom of the disease rather than as an etiological factor. Habits.—Renal cirrhosis frequently arises in patients who have been accustomed to eat and drink to excess. Large quantities of nitrogenous foods lead to an undue amount of work being thrown upon the kidney. If at the same time these patients take a relatively small proportion of liquid the urine becomes concentrated, and the tendency to the formation of uric acid and of oxalates is increased. Neuroses. — The depression resulting from emotional causes, prolonged anxiety, worry, or grief, seems to have some direct influence, although it is extremely difficult to explain how disease of the kidney is thus produced. It is possible that the nervous influence may disturb the digestive system, or may lead to intemperate habits. Sometimes mental depression may merely favour the rapid development of pre- existing disease; sometimes it may contribute to gouty attacks; but whether nervous depres- sion by itself can produce cirrhosis remains somewhat doubtful. In spite of the frequency with which mental anxiety appears to be distinctly associated with this disease, there may be no true etiological connection, inasmuch as cirrhosis, a disease of middle age, occurs at a time when mental disturbances, from financial difficvilties or other causes of anxiety, are likely to arise. Lead Poisoning. — Similar uncertainty sur- rounds the supposed connection between lead poisoning and cirrhosis of the kidney. There is no doubt about the frequent association of lead poisoning and gout, and many observers have attempted to explain the influence of lead poisoning as contributing to the occurrence of gout, which in turn leads on to renal cirrhosis. Climatic Conditions.—Cirrhosis of the kidney appears to be more frequent in temperate climates; hence it has frequently been held that it is favoured by damp and by rapid alterations of temperature. Chronic irritation of the bladder or of the urethra by stricture, or of the pelvis of the kidney by means of a renal calculus, may occasionally induce cirrhosis of the kidney, but far more commonly these causes lead to con- secutive nephritis. Clinical Features op the Different Types Acute Nephritis. — The commencement of acute nephritis is indicated by chills or slight rigors, which are followed by a varying period of a typical pyrexia. The temperature may be only slightly raised, or it may reach 103° or 104:° Fahr. The pulse-rate is proportionately raised and its volume may be increased. The tongue is furred and the bowels are constipated. When the nephritis originates in one of the infectious diseases (with the exception of scarlet fever) the onset is rarely marked by such defi- nite symptoms, and unless the urine is tested the commencement may escape observation. The Urine.—From the first there is notable diminution in the quantity of urine passed, and occasionally the execretion of urine is almost totally arrested. When the disease is fully established the amount generally varies from 6 to 16 ounces in the twenty-four hours, and there is frequent desire to micturate, only a few drops being passed at a time with much strain- ing. The specific gravity of the water may be as high as 1030 or 1040. When improvement commences and the quantity is augmented, the specific gravity falls more nearly to the normal. Generally, during the acute stage the reaction of the urine is acid, and quantities of albumin are present. The colour is dark reddish brown, turbid and smoky, and the sediment, which is abundant, is composed largely of blood casts, blood corpuscles, renal epithelium and granular urates, or crystals of uric acid and calcium oxalate. Blood corpuscles and epithelial cells generally predominate, but casts are always present, though their prevailing type changes as the disease progresses. At first blood casts and epithelial casts are especially numerous, but when the case is becoming more chronic they are replaced by granular casts and fatty casts, which accordingly afford valuable indications of the stage of the disease. In spite of the high specific gravity of the urine the daily elimination of solids is generally diminished. The urea is decreased in quantity from 25 per cent to 50 per cent, and the chlorides similarly undergo great diminution. Pain.—Complaint may be made of uneasiness or discomfort in the region of the kidneys. This may amount to actual pain, extending along the ureters to the bladder ; but pain, when present, is mostly connected with the act of micturition, rather than with the degree of