330 MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL is contraction of the flexors, which prevents the full straightening of the leg. The test can be equally well made with the patient in the recumbent posture. The thigh is flexed at a right angle with the trunk ; then on attempting to extend the leg, if meningitis be present, it is impossible to do so, and the leg may remain at Kernig's sign, showing the strong contraction of the flexors on attempting to extend the le; right angles to the thigh, as shown above. Netter's explanation of the phenomenon is as follows: "In consequence of the inflammation of the meninges the roots of the nerves become irritable, and the flexion of the thighs upon the pelvis when the patient is in the sitting posture elongates and consequently stretches the lumbar and sacral roots, and thus increases their irrita- bility. The attempt to extend the knee is in- suflicient to provolse a reflex contraction of the flexors while the patient lies on his back with the thighs extended upon the pelvis, but it does so when he assumes a sitting posture." Lumbar Pmichire.—Introduced by Quincke, this has proved of very great value in diagnosis, and we are able now to make in many cases a prompt decision as to the existence of menin- gitis and its form. Details of the technique are given elsewhere (see "Spinal Cord"). It is a simple and quite harmless procedure, and in a majority of cases can be done without general anaesthesia, or with the aid of a local freezing mixture. In children, unless unconscious, it is best to give a few whiffs of chloroform. In cerebro-spinal fever a dry tap is very rare. Occasionally the needle may be blocked with fibrin, or a nerve root may come directly against the orifice. Puncture in the third or fourth lumbar space may be negative, while from the second the fluid may flow freely. The technique, like other procedures of the kind, is bettered by practice. In a large proportion of all cases when meningitis is present the fluid is turbid. In rare instances clear fluid may be obtained when meningitis exists, or the fluid may be turbid at one puncture and clear at the next, or it may become clear in the remarkable remissions of the disease. A clear fluid may be obtained from a puncture in the second lumbar inter- space, while lower down a turbid fluid may be withdrawn. In a recent post-mortem the fluid from the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions was clear, and that from the lower lum- bar and sacral regions of the canal was turbid, and contained numerous flocculent masses. The fluid should be allowed to flow into a sterilised test-tube. When the fluid is at all turbid there is usually a slight sedi- ment and a coagulation of fibrin. Cover-glass prepara- tions are made either directly from the turbid fluid or, if the turbidity is slight and the cell elements few in number, after it has been centrifugal- ised. Cultures should be pre- pared at the time of making the lumbar puncture by allow- ing one or two cubic centi- metres of the fluid to flow on to a Loffler blood-serum medium. The amount of fluid varies from a few drops to 130 cc. Within certain limits there is some relation between the turbidity of the fluid and the severity of the symptoms. In several of our cases a bloody fluid was removed. In acute cases the organisms are usually present in large numbers in the smears. The later the disease the less likelihood there is of finding the diplo- coccus. We have found them as late as the seventh week. Diagnosis of the Meningitis in Cerehro-Spinal Fever from other Forms of Meningitis.—(a) From Tuberculous Meningitis.—The abruptness of onset in cerebro-spinal fever, partictilarly in children, is a most valuable diagnostic point, as it is in such striking contrast to the slow, insidious onset of the tuberculous form. The cerebral symptoms predominate in the tuber- culous meningitis, the spinal in the cerebro- spinal fever. As the tuberculous form almost always invades the choroid plexuses, there is internal hydrocephalus, with an increase of the pressure, so that drowsiness and coma are common. One rarely sees in tuberculous meningitis, as may be the case with the meningitis of cerebro-spinal fever, a child with well-pronounced features of the disease and yet rational and able to answer questions. The arthritis and the skin lesions are exceedingly rare in the tuberculous form. The lumbar puncture in the acute cases is of the greatest value. In a large proportion of all cases the diplococcus intracellularis is found in cerebro-