MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 479 the aponeurosis and tendon of the muscle, but also in the muscle itself, which are capable of giving rise to afferent impulses of a painful nature. Prognods.—The disease is usually of a short duration, and tends to pass off without treat- ment in a few days. Treatment.—Treatment consists in the ap- plication of dry or moist heat to the part affected. Counter-irritation by blisters, leeches, etc., are of some use; massage is also of service, and it is important to exercise the muscles either actively or passively. A Turkish bath will often give great relief, and when followed by massage and active or passive movements, will completely relieve the condition. Salicylates or quinine may be given internally, but local remedies are usually most efficacious. 2. Rupture of Muscle.—It is not proposed to deal here with the condition of muscular stiffness and pain which results after prolonged and unusual exertion, for it may be regarded as a physiological rather than a pathological con- dition. On the other hand, some of the severer forms of such an affection have been attributed to rupture of some muscle fibres. Rupture of muscle may be due to—firstly, direct injury; secondly, to the forcible con- traction of the muscle ; and, thirdly, to a spon- taneous rupture in the course of acute febrile conditions in which the muscle has undergone degeneration. The smallest exertion, such as a cough or the shifting of the position in bed, is able to cause rupture of the muscle in these cases. With regard to the first form it needs no special mention here. In the second form, where the rupture occurs after some forcible contraction in a healthy or, at any rate, not obviously unhealthy muscle, the patient has sudden severe pain in the position of the ruptured muscle, with loss of power of the movements of the affected muscle. In the re- laxed position of the muscle the pain is lessened, while it is intensified either by active contraction or passive extension of the muscles. Between the separate ends of the muscle a groove can be felt, though this not infrequently becomes filled up with extravasated blood. The process of repair takes place, and the muscle may be fully restored, though such a fortunate termination is not always obtained. Rupture which occurs in a muscle during the course of febrile conditions is always due to some pathological change in the muscle fibre. The rectus abdominis muscle is that which is most frequently affected, in other cases the psoas and abductors of the thigh may be af- fected. The rupture of these muscles may occur whilst coughing, during convulsions, delirium, and during the process of defsecation. The condition most commonly occurs during typhoid fever, and is not infrequently followed by a severe hsematoma, but it has also been noted in malaria, miliary tuberculosis, phthisis, and tetanus. Symptoms.—Sharp pain is complained of at the time of rupture which lasts one or two days, and is increased on muscular exertion. Usually a swelling occurs at the seat of rupture which is elastic and gives rise to fluctuation. The muscle may be tender on pressure, and may in such a case give rise to the diagnosis of peri- tonitis. In spite of the degenerate condition of the muscle recovery generally takes place. The process by which recovery of a muscle takes place is one over which there has been con- siderable controversy, but it is now generally believed that reconstruction of the muscle fibre takes place from the growing out of the end of the ruptured muscle. Hernia of Muscle.—This is a rare condition, in which owing to injury a portion of the muscle during contraction becomes extruded through its aponeurosis. 3. Congenital Absence of Muscle.—Scattered throughout medical literature are reports of cases in which certain muscles have been con- genitally absent. It would seem from the re- ported cases that the muscle most frequently absent is the pectoralis major on one side; not a few cases of this sort have been described, giving rise to the absence of the anterior fold of the axilla, and to flattening and depression of the chest-wall on the side of which the muscle is absent. This has been associated in some cases with abnormally small arteries on the affected side. The congenital absence of the latissimum dorsi has been noted in con- junction with the absence of the pectoralis major, and in some cases the pectoralis minor has also been absent. The clavicular portion of the pectoralis major generally remains normally developed while the two lower portions are absent. Absence of the abdominal muscle has been described, and also of the semi-membra- nosus muscle. The interest of these cases is, however, mostly anatomical, except in so far as any deformity produced may be attributed to disease. The absence of the muscle does not necessarily cause any loss of function, for that is generally performed by some other muscle. 4. Changes in Muscle due to Vascular Disturbance. — The changes which occur in muscles from which the blood-supply is cut off are commonly known under the name of " Ischsemic paralysis," and the most frequent cause of this condition is the too tight applica- tion of splints after fracture or other injury. It will be convenient, however, to deal with the subject under two heads : first, the muscular change produced by interruption of the arterial supply; and, secondly, by the obstruction to the venous return. Affection of Muscle due to Interruption of Arterial Supply.—This depends largely on two