MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 209 opposed by Borrel, Thin, Riifter, Delepine, Karg, Tdrok, and Unna. The writer, after devoting much attention to the so-called psorosperms of this disease, has convinced himself that they are simply epidermic cells which have undergone a peculiar cancerous metaplasia. A vertical section through the diseased patch shows foci of epithelial proliferation, situated more especially in the intercapillary processes of the Malpighian layer of the epidermis (Fig. 29). Under a high power (Fig. 30) the pro- FlG. 29.—Paget's disease of the nipple. Vertical section of the skin near the periphery of the patch. In the interpapillary processes of the epidermis are clusters of large malignant epithelial cells, the so-called psorosperms. liferating epithelial cells present a very different appearance from the adjacent non-proliferating epidermic cells; the former are much larger, often oval or spherical, and contain a large and generally hyperchromatic nucleus embedded in a very delicate and faintly stained dropsical looking protoplasm. Many of the nuclei are undergoing mitosis. These large and typically malignant looking epithelial cells are placed between, and not within, the ordinary epidermic cells. The double contoured cell membrane, claimed by Wickham and others as proof of the parasitic nature of these cell structures, is by no means always present. The membrane is the result of a slight kerato-hyaline transformation of the periphery of the cell—an attempt, in short, on the part of the cell to follow out its normal involution into a horny epidermic cell. The other microscopical appearances brought forward as evidence of the parasitic nature of these peculiar cells are the result of faulty microscopic technique. In addition to the malignant proliferating foci in the epidermis, the superficial layer of the corium is the seat of a dense small-celled infil- VOL. VI tration. In the nipple a similar malignant pro- liferation of the cells lining one or more of the ducts takes place. In the later stages of the disease groups of cancer cells are found infil- trating the nipple, the lymph spaces of the corium of the surrounding skin, and the adven- titious coats of the ducts. It would appear, therefore, that the starting-point of the disease is in the neighbourhood of the orifice of one or more of the mammillary ducts, and that the malignant process spreads both circumferentially in the skin and downwards along the ducts (Figs. 31 and 32) into the breast, where sooner or later a distinct tumour develops. Treatment.—Should the nipple affection be combined with a tumour in the breast, the treatment will necessarily consist of the modem extensive operation now performed as a matter of routine in cases of scirrhus of the breast. Even when no tumour can be felt, the writer is strongly of opinion that the whole breast should be removed. The only doubt which may arise is whether the axilla should be cleared out: it certainly should be explored. To re- move the pectoral glands is to err upon the Fig. 30.—From the same specimen as Fig. 29, highly magnified, to show the structure of the malignant epitlielial cells. safe side without subjecting the patient to any additional risk worth considering. When once the diagnosis of Paget's disease is definitely established, no time should be put off with the application of mercurial ointments or caustic applications. The histological appear- ances of the disease are so characteristic, that in doubtful cases a piece of the affected skin should be removed and subjected to microscopic examination. The writer is convinced that the very early stage of cancerous disease is often overlooked; any intractable excoriation or superficial ulceration of the nipple (apart from 14