470 DISEASES OF THE JAW MOUTH—INJURIES AND appears in two forms, one which probably always begins in the gum or palate, and is composed of squamous epithelium. This was considered when dealing with diseases of the gums (see p. 458). The other variety is columnar epithelioma, which always begins in the antrum (see Diseases of Antrum, article "Nose"). Operations on the Jaws.—Operations upon the jaws are nearly always performed for the removal of growths, and therefore many of the operations can scarcely be of a formal character, but the surgeon must plan his incisions accord- ing to the exact relations of the growth. In this place, therefore, it will be necessary simply to describe the formal operation for excision of the jaws. Excision of the Upper Jmv. — The method usually practised is Ferguson's modification of Liston's method. An incision is made through the centre of the upper lip to the columella, then transversely at the posterior margin of the anterior nares, and round the alse of the nose vip to a point just below the inner can thus, then outwards along the lower margin of the orbit to just below the outer canthus. This flap is reflected outwards, all the soft tissues down to the bone being removed. With a suitable saw the malar bone is sawn through in a line with the spheno-maxillary fissure, then the nasal process of the superior maxilla is sawn through, and finally the saw is placed through the nostril and the hard palate and alveolus are divided. Just before this last saw-cut is made the central incisor of the maxilla to be removed is extracted, and the mucous membrane over the hard palate is divided with a knife along the line where the saw is to emerge. As soon as the saw-ciits have been made, the soft palate is separated from the hard palate by means of a scalpel, and this transverse incision is carried outwards around the tuberosity of the maxilla. The bone is then seized in a pair of lion forceps and forcibly pulled downwards and forwards, any soft tissue being divided that is necessary. When possible the orbital plate should be left, so that the eyeball does not suffer to any extent. When the orbital plate is removed there is great tendency for the eyeball to drop, and for the patient to get diplopia and other troubles. In order to prevent deformity many methods have of recent years been devised, and these will be considered after removal of the lower jaw has been described. Excision of Lower Jaw. — A skin incision is made from the point just to one side of the middle line running along the lower border of the jaw as far as its angle, and then upwards along the posterior border of the ramus to a point just below the lobule of the ear. The tissues are cut right down to the bone, and the soft tissues are separated, first on the outer side right up to the reflection of the mucous membrane of the mouth, and then on the inner side dividing the mylo-hyoid, internal pterygoid, etc. The central incisor of that side is then removed, and the mucous membrane of the moiith divided after all hsemorrhage has been stopped. The jaw is then held firmly in a pair of lion forceps, and is cut through between the central and lateral incisor teeth, so as to leave the attachments of the tongue. As soon as the jaw is divided it is pulled forcibly downwards, and the knife is carefully turned upwards to divide the attachment of the temporal muscle from the coronoid process^ -^e external lateral ligament is then divided and the jaw forcibly pulled downwards, so that the external ptery- goid muscle is torn through and not cut. Provided the jaw is pulled directly downwards and not twisted there is no danger of wounding the internal maxillary artery, but any attempt to cut the external pterygoid with a knife would involve wounding of that vessel. Further, by twisting the jaw at this stage the internal maxillary artery may slip over the condyle and be torn as the jaw is pulled away. Some surgeons prefer to divide the coronoid process with a saw and then to remove the small piece of bone afterwards. Immediate Prosthesis.—After removal of the jaws there is of necessity a considerable amount of deformity, especially in the case of the lower jaw. In the latter case also the remaining portion of jaw becomes pulled out of its proper position, and so mastication is rendered im- possible. Of recent years attempts have been made to do away with this great reproach against operations on the jaws. For the advance of our knowledge in this direction we are chiefly indebted to certain French dentists, especially MM. Preterre, Claud Martin, and Michaels. The principle of the method adopted by Preterre and Claud Martin is to insert a mechanical contriv- ance into the mouth directly after the jaw is removed, so that the scar tissue which forms as the wound heals is prevented from dragging the remaining portions of the jaw out of their proper position. When the wound has sufficiently healed this temporary structure is removed, and in its place a permanent apparatus bearing teeth is inserted. There are thus two stages in this method: the immediate or temporary prosthesis, and the secondary or permanent prosthesis. The temporary apparatus employed by Claud Martin is extremely ingenious and re- quires a high degree of mechanical dental ex- perience. In his hands it has given excellent results; but the method is too complicated and costly for general use, and in this coimtry but little if any work has been done in this direction. Michaels has attempted to attain the object with one apparatus which is designed to remain in position and to become surrounded by the healing tissues. Broadly speaking, it consists of a metal support which is fixed as much as