131 MALARIA moistening this with water and laying it on a sheet of window-glass or glazed tile. Slides, on which small blood films have been made by spreading with a needle, are then rapidly in- verted before they have time to dry over the holes in the blotting-paper, taking care that the film does not become wet. The slides are re- moved after a period of about half an hour, dried in the air, fixed, and then stained by the Romanowsky method, or by immersing them in carbol fuchsin (1 in 4) from four to six hours. The former method brings out the chromatin filaments in the flagella. Fallacies.—When commencing the study of malarial blood there are certain causes of fallacy which must be guarded against. Those met with in fresh blood are the following : vacuoles, crenations, fissures, buckling of corpuscles, and dirt. The greater the care and skill with which the preparations are made the less frequently will these conditions be met with. Vacuoles are clear spaces containing fluid existing in the stroma of the red corpuscles ; they often exhibit a slow pulsating movement, but never true amoeboid motion. Inasmuch as they occupy the whole thickness of the red cell they possess a definite and sharp outline, and their refraction index differs considerably from that of the malaria parasite. Sometimes they assume an eye form, not unfrequently with a speck of haemoglobin at the centre. They never contain pigment, do not cause alteration in the size of the red cell, and do not stain. Crenations, when on the upper surface of the red cell, at the first glance may be mistaken for a malarial parasite, but the presence of other crenations around the edge of the corpuscle will at once reveal their nature. It is a good rule never to attempt to diagnose malarial parasites when they are in crenated or damaged corpuscles. Buckling, that is to say, a curling up of the edge of a red corpuscle, is recognised by the absence of amoeboid movement, by the absence of pigment, and by the asymmetry of the red cell. Fissures and cracks have a very distinct outline and do nor alter in shape. Dirt may occasionally be taken for pigment of malarial origin. Care in the preparation of the specimen will obviate this source of error. A certain pro- portion of the mononuclear leucocytes in normal blood contain in their protoplasm one or two minute, and, when in accurate focus, intensely black granules. These resemble somewhat closely melanin granviles; their significance is unknown (Manson). The dancing granules, or blood dust, which are frequently seen in normal blood preparations, and which are derived from the protoplasm of disintegrated leucocytes, are often mistaken for free malarial spores. Blood platlets are also similarly mistaken. It is sufficient to bear in mind that these elements occur in normal blood to avoid such sources of error. Fallacies in stained preparations are chiefly the presence of dirt and deposit from the stain. With a little care a mistake cannot be made ; by staining, the anatomical features of the parasite are always evident, and it pos- sesses a very definite afiinity for stains. All stains should be filtered at the time of using. The Demonstration of the Malarial Parasite in the Mosquito.—Mosquitoes may be examined in the fresh state or by means of permanent preparations, either stained or un- stained. For examination in the fresh state the mosquito must have been recently killed. The wings and legs having been removed, it is placed under a dissecting microscope in a few drops of a mixture of formalin 2 per cent and salt solution 5 per cent. The head is now fixed with a needle, and while the prothorax is held with another, they are pulled apart; stretching between them a long white tube can generally be seen—this is the sucking tube. The salivary glands usually remain in the thorax, but by employing a little pressure, first on one side of the prothorax and then on the other side, they can be exposed. Their tripartite structure can be readily recognised ; occasionally the glands are attached to the head. The head and body are now discarded and a cover-glass placed on the salivary glands. It is necessary to cut off most of the light to see the sporozoites, using first the low powers and subsequently yV - inch objective. The sporozoites may be seen in enormous numbers in the cells of the middle lobe. The intestinal canal can be removed by a somewhat similar manipulation, the thorax being fixed with one needle; the two terminal segments of the abdomen are partially detached with the other, at the same time slight traction being exercised. In this way most of the intestinal tubes, with the five Malpighian tubes attached, can be obtained for microscopical examination. Should it contain blood, this must be washed out with salt solution; it is well to irrigate in any case, as by washing away the epithelial covering the zygotes are more readily seen. In order to make good sections it is necessary to embed the mosquito in celloidin. The freshly killed insect should be placed successively in methylated spirit, absolute alcohol, alcohol and ether, thin celloidin, and thick celloidin; one day is sufficient for each fluid with the exception of the thin celloidin, in which it should remain for two days. The sections may be mounted unstained, or stained with various dyes—picro-carmine and haemo- toxylin give fairly good results. Clinical Manifestations of Malaria When an individual becomes infected with malaria the parasites may, without causing any clinical manifestations, pass directly into a latent state. This apparently occurs when the conditions in the human host are unfavour-