198 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF Certainly in some cases the cachexia is well marked before ulceration, and sometimes even before there is any evidence of dissemination. Mr. Cheyne very riglitly points out that the so-called cancerous cachexia should not be re- garded per se as a contraindication to operation, since it may entirely disappear as the result of operative interference. It is highly probable, therefore, that the system may become poisoned by an auto-intoxication, the toxines being pro- duced by the cancer cells or by the products of their degeneration and disintegration. In some cases the disease runs its course without any evidence of cachexia whatsoever. Death ensues from inanition and exhaustion brought about by the inevitable progress of the disease. The more imjjortant of the factors which bring about these conditions are pain, loss of sleep, anorexia, septic intoxication, and rarely hjemorrhage. Or death may be brought about by extension of the disease to the pleura and lungs, or by metastatic growths in various important and vital organs. The Slow-growing or Atrophic Scirrhus.—The circumscribed atrophic cancer is characterised by its small size and slow growth. It is more fibrous and still denser than the ordinary scirrhus, so that it cuts with a grating sensa- tion, and its surface, abundantly mottled with points of fatty degeneration, has an appearance which has been very aptly likened to that of an miripe pear. On section the tumour shows a marked tendency to contract, as evidenced by the bulging of the adjacent tissues. Radiating from the circumference of the tumour are numerous silvery white strands, the so-called "claws" of the cancer. Microsco2ncally, the tumour shows a few small atrophic-looking groups of cancer cells, often arranged in a linear fashion, embedded in an abundant stroma con- sisting of coarse, sclerosed, and hyaline white fibrous tissue containing many elastic fibres. Many of the cell groups have undergone com- plete fatty degeneration. In the diffuse atrophic form, the nipple is generally deeply retracted, and the breast as a whole is stony hard, shrunken, and drawn up to a higher level than its fellow. Later on, the skin over the breast becomes adherent as well as puckered and irregularly furrowed from cicatrisation of the deeper parts. This condition bears a close external resemblance to the diffuse cicatricial form of mastitis, from which it is to be distinguished by the stony hardness, the fixation of the deeper parts, and generally by the presence of small but characteristically hard axillary glands. Occasionally both the circum- scribed and diffuse forms give rise to slow but progressive infiltration and dissemination in the skin, so that a chronic condition of cancer "e7t cuirasse " may be produced. This is more liable to happen when the primary tumour is situated behind the nipple, infection of the skin taking place through the medium of the subareolar lymphatic plexus of Sappey. The most remarkable feature of the atrophic form of cancer is the long course of the disease. It is quite common for the patient to live from five to ten years, and cases have been recorded in which the patient lived from twenty to thirty years. Although axillary infection and secondary deposits do not as a rule make their appearance until several years after the disease is first noticed, yet eventually they are the usual cause of the death of the patient. Occasionally death is brought about by exhaustion, the result of local ulceration, the tumour being represented by an extensive, slowly spreading, indurated ulcer firmly fixed to the chest wall. Acute Cancer:—In marked contrast to the atrophic cancers just described are the acute forms of the disease, which may occur either in a circumscribed or diffuse form. The former, known as '^tuberous" ca7icer, occurs as a rapidly growing, large, generally well-circumscribed, but non-encapsulated tumour of a less hard but more elastic consistence than the ordinary scirrhus. The tumour, generally bulging upon the surface, is covered by stretched skin, which does not become adherent until it is actually invaded by the direct extension of the tumour. On section, the comparative softness of the tumour, its somewhat homogeneous medullary appearance, and its well-defined outline, give it a close resemblance to a round-celled sarcoma: a resemblance which is further strengthened by the liability of the central portion of the tumour to undergo mucoid and hfemorrhagic softening. The axillary glands may be secondarily affected in both diseases. The term encephaloid cancer which has been applied to these tumours is an unfortunate one, inasmuch as it is often microscopically indis- tinguishable from the growing edge of an ordinary scirrhus, while other tumours of the breast, which are totally different microscopi- cally, may have an encephaloid appearance clinically—for example, the adeno-carcinoma of Halstead, to be subsequently described. In the later stages, when the skin over the tumour has become reddened and the centre converted into a degeneration cyst, there may be consider- able difficulty in distinguishing the condition from an abscess ; indeed, in some cases a dia- gnosis cannot be made until the swelling is incised. The state of the axillary glands affords an important aid to diagnosis, as they are usu- ally distinctly more indui-ated in the malignant affection. The diffuse {infiltrating) acute carcinoma is the most formidable and rapidly fatal of all the tumours of the mamma. The disease in its most typical form almost invai'iably sets in during pregnancy or lactation. The increased vascularity and evolutionary changes which