MEDIASTINUM, THE 238 various directions at the same time. On the other hand, aneurysms usually take a definite direction in the course of their development. The presence of a murmur over the dull area points to an aneurysm, but the pressure of a new growth upon the aorta has been known to give rise to a systolic murmur. The accentu- ated aortic second sound or diastolic thud and tracheal tugging are characteristic of an aneurysm, and are not met with in growths. As already stated, pulsation may be trans- mitted through a soft tumour, and so simulate an aneurysm, while on the other hand there may be an aneurysm without piilsation. Nerves are much more likely to be compressed by an aneurysm, hence irritative and paralytic nervous symptoms rather point to this condition. Great and rapid extension of dulness, especially if combined with marked oedema and dilatation of veins, is in favour of tumour as against aneurysm. Great distension of the superficial veins is, however, usually seen only in growths of con- siderable size and at a late period of their history. Hence the sign is not of much use in diagnosis at an early stage. Pain is a more constant and prominent symp- tom in aneurysm than in growths. Aneurysms are more prone to cause absorption of bone and an external tumour than is the case with growths. The presence of enlarged glands in the neck or axilla, or nodules on the chest-wall, would be almost decisive evidence in favour of malignant disease. Hsemorrhage may be met with both in cancer of the lung and aneurysm; in the former it is usually slight, and death generally follows earlier in cases of hsemorrhage due to aneurysm. Death from htemorrhage is not at all uncommon in aneurysm, whereas it is very rare as a con- sequence of cancer of the lung. The prolonged pressure of an aneurysm upon a bronchvis, causing retention of secretion in the tubes, may give rise to fibrosis and chronic inflammatory changes in the parenchyma of the lung, which closely simulate a new growth, thus giving rise to further difficulty in the diagnosis. To sum up, signs of extreme pressure point to malignant disease rather than to aneurysm. A mediastinal tumour, such as a sarcoma, adherent to the pericardium might be mistaken for pericardial effusion. The following points would be of service in the differential diagnosis : (1) The position of the apex beat—in effusion this tends to be displaced upwards and to the left; (2) bulging of the intercostal space is in favour of effusion; (3) in effusion the heart sounds are distant and feeble, and there may be pericardial friction sound. It must be remembered that a mediastinal growth may give rise to a pericardial effusion. For differential diagnosis between mediastinal abscess and new growth, see "Abscess of Mediastinum." It is highly probable that with increasing experience in the use of the X-rays they will be found of great value in the dia- gnosis of intrathoracic growths. These rays have already facilitated the recognition of intrathoracic aneurysms and enlarged bronchial glands, but until they have been systematically employed in a series of cases of suspected intra- thoracic growths it will not be possible to gauge their exact value. Prognosis.—It is a very difficult matter to state with any degree of precision the mean length of life after malignant disease has started in the thorax. The early symptoms and signs are apt to be inconclusive, so that it is impossible in many cases to determine the date at which the disease commenced. Walshe, in cases of cancer of the lung, gives a mean duration of 13"2 months, a maximum of 27 months, and a minimum of 3'5 months, and recent statistics are fairly in accord with these figures. Exceptional cases are, however, met with, as, for instance, that of a child aged five, who died in the course of five or six weeks from the commencement of symptoms. At the necropsy the whole of the anterior mediastinum was occupied by a mass which completely enveloped the pericardium and compressed the aorta and large veins. In secondary cancerous deposits the outlook is very bad, as death usually occurs within a few weeks. Death in cases of intrathoracic growth is usually due to gradual exhaustion, or it may be brought about by one of the complications, such as pneumonia, gangrene, or oedema of the lung, pneumo-thorax, pleural, or pericardiac effusion or hfemorrhage. In the case of medi- astinal tumours, suffocation, either due to direct pressure on the trachea, or to paralysis of the abductors of the cords, may occur. A case has been recorded in which sudden death from suffocation occurred during vomiting, owing to a tumour in the anterior mediastinum being forced upwards and becoming impacted between the sternum and vertebral column, so that the trachea was compressed. Treatment.—In these diseases, as in many others, our power of diagnosis far exceeds that of treatment. We know of no means of pre- venting intrathoracic growths, if we except the early and complete removal of malignant disease affecting other organs; our aim must therefore be limited to attempts at mitigating the suffer- ing of the patient. Iodide of potassium in full doses often gives relief, and in exceptional cases the symjDtoms have disappeared under its use : the doubt arises in these cases as to whether a gumma was not the cause of the trouble. Should the iodide improve the patient's condition, it might be well to try in addition the inunction of mercurial ointment.