MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 177 may readily be elicited by placing one hand above and the other below the organ. If left to itself the abscess generally points at the margin of the outer hemisphere; occasionally it reaches the surface through the thin upper and inner margin. Treatment.—A preTnammary abscess should be opened early by a comparatively small incision radiating from the nipple. The healing is hastened by curetting the wall of the cavity with a sharp spoon. If the abscess is small, one or two strands of iodoform worsted are introduced in preference to a drainage-tube. These may be removed on the third day, after which healthy granulation and cicatrisation rapidly occur, so that in many cases nursing of the infant need not be abandoned. Care must be taken to distinguish between a simple localised engorgement of the breast and the early stage of an intraviammary abscess. If an incision be made in the former condition severe hsemorrhage may result. In cases of doubt the milk should be examined for micro- organisms, and the indurated area should be carefully palpated morning and evening in search of any sign of softening or deep fluctuation. As soon as either is discovered no time is to be lost in having recourse to the knife. Every possible means must be taken to prevent con- tamination of the abscess with saprophytic organisms, otherwise the abscess will go on discharging for a lengthened period, and per- sistent sinuses are liable to form, A general anaesthetic should be administered, as the part is much too tender to admit of the skin being thoroughly purified without it. The incision should have a direction radiating from the nipple, with the double object of sparing the vessels as well as the ducts. It should be made directly over the softened or fluctuating area of the phlegmon, and it should be at least large enough to readily admit the finger, which must be introduced into the cavity in order to freely break down the sloughing remains of the intralobular septa which separate the various loculi of the abscess. One or more counter- openings are often necessary, as free drainage is all-important. Some surgeons, with whom the writer cannot agree, are opposed to free incisions and counter- openings, believing that they favour a spread of the inflammation by exposing healthy areas to microbic infection. He holds, on the contrary, that phlegmonous inflammations of the breast should be treated on the same principles as those occurring elsewhere, and that the surgeon will do better to err on the side of too free, rather than of too limited, incisions. If outlying suppurative foci are present, the wound should be opened out with retractors and the foci re- moved with a sharp spoon, aided, if necessary, by scissors. The wound, if larger than is necessary to admit a large drainage-tube, may VOL. VI be partially closed by the introduction of one or two deep silkworm-gut sutures. The drainage- tube should not be kept in longer than is necessary, as it tends to favour the formation of sinuses. Irrigation of the abscess at the time of operation with a hot weak antiseptic or sterile lotion has the advantage of washing away a quantity of sloughing tissue, while at the same time it arrests the bleeding. If the hfemorrhage prove troublesome the cavity should be firmly packed around a glass drainage-tube. Billroth records a case in which this did not suffice, but in which packing with gauze soaked in turpentine proved successful. The old plan of daily syringing out the abscess with a strong antiseptic solution should be had recourse to only in the event of sapro- phytic contamination; in the absence of the latter it is to be condemned, as it delays healing by lowering the vitality of the granulations lining the abscess. A moist antiseptic dressing is applied next the skin, and over this a liberal amount of sub- limated wool which should extend well down do wards the abdomen. The arm should be bandaged to the chest. When the abscess occurs towards the end of lactation, and the patient's general health is much reduced, a quinine and iron tonic, com- bined with some alcohol and a liberal diet, will prove of value. An acute retromammary abscess should be opened through an incision at the margin of the lower and outer quadrant. After the pus has been evacuated, the breast, which had been previously floated up, may sink down and inter- fere somewhat with the drainage; when this happens, a second incision should be made to- wards the sterno-clavicular margin of the breast. When persistent sinuses remain after puerperal mastitis the history is generally somewhat as follows: the sinuses have existed for several months or even for a year or so; they date back from the last puerperium, or, it may be, from the one before. The original abscess, which had been allowed to burst spontaneously, or had been imperfectly drained, was allowed to become infected with saprophytic organisms, and a succession of abscesses formed at diff"erent parts of the breast. The patient is pale and unhealthy-looking, and there will probably be some fever of a more or less hectic type. Should she become preg- nant and persist in nursing with the sound breast, not only are fresh abscesses almost certain to form in the diseased breast, but the sound one is also very liable to suppurate, due to contamination of its ducts with the discharges from the diseased organ. Nursing must there- fore be prohibited. Such persistent sinus-forma- tion will be prevented by early operation, free drainage, and the prevention of saprophytic contamination. 12