392 MICRO-ORGANISMS represent the resting stage in its development. When spores are placed in a suitable medium they germinate, i.e. they gradually lose their characteristic, highly refractive appearance, swell up, and give rise to new vegetative forms, which in turn form spores. The mode in which the organism issues from the spore membrane constitutes a specific character: some issue at right angles to the length of the spore, others in the direction of the longitudinal axis. When the bacillus appears certain forms exhibit a definite spore-membrane, which shows evidence of considerable elasticity, whilst in others such a membrane is not visible. An exceptional mode of sprouting has been observed by Sorokin in a spirillum, where vegetative cells have been seen to develop from spores whilst these are still retained within the mother-cell. It is the rule, however, that spores only sprout after they have been liberated. Some spores possess a consider- able degree of resistance to heat and chemical agents. Whereas the vegetative cells of anthrax are almost immediately destroyed in boiling water, the spores may resist boiling for four to twelve minutes. Certain spores frequently found in soil have been known to resist boiling for six to eight hours. The greater resistance of spores to heat has been attributed to their protoplasm being more concentrated, for the reason that the greater the amount of water in protoplasm the more readily will it become coagulated. Nevertheless the resistance of spores may be attributable to some difference in molecular structure. Whereas the specific gravity of vegetative cells is 1038-1065 (Rubner) that of spores is somewhat higher (Almquist). Viewed unstained bacteria appear as un- differentiated, almost colourless bodies. That they possess a membrane is shown by plas- molysis and the phenomena attending sporu- lation and degeneration. The membrane is different from that in higher plants in that it does not give the cellulose reaction. Some investigators have claimed that the whole bacterium constitutes a nucleus, whilst others look upon certain bodies (Ernst-Neisser bodies) as being equivalent to nuclei. The fact that usually the whole bacillus reacts to nuclear stains has formed the basis for the first state- ment ; the fact that with certain stains small intensely staining bodies appear, has been brought forward in support of the other view. In neither case is the evidence entirely satis- factory. In Beggiatoa we find granules of sulphur deposited in the cell. In other forms iron is deposited within the capsule. At times the protoplasm seems broken up by vacuoles, so that when stained the organism (B. leprte, B. tuberculosis, B. diphtherise, etc.) appears transversely banded or " beaded." Bacteria generally resist the action of dilute alkalies. On the addition of iodine they stain yellow; a few give a starch-like reaction. The use of bacteria in nature is incalculable. The dead bodies of animals and plants which would otherwise accumulate are made to dis- appear and enrich the soil. The effects of their vital processes are daily seen in the formation of manure, the manufacture of bread, wine, etc. Bacteria are very widely distributed, being present in the air except in mid-ocean, the ex- pired air, and the air at high altitudes. They have been foimd in water, ice, snow, and hail. They are absent in the water of deep Artesian wells, but present in all surface waters and the water of shallow wells, as also in the surface layers of the soil. They are usually absent from the tissues of normal animals and plants, though they are numerous in the alimentary canal of all animals, excepting in the Arctic regions, where they may be absent. In the Leguminosae they are present in the root nod- ules apparently under conditions of symbiosis. The composition of bacteria varies within wider limits than that of any other known organisms, it being to a considerable extent dependent upon the chemical composition of the medium within which they grow. In other words, they possess great powers of adaptation. The bacterial cell is composed of about 89 per cent water, and 11 per cent dry substance (Hammerschlag). The solid constituents of the protoplasm are chiefly protein in character. Fats are always present. In B. tuberculosis about 37 per cent fat may be present (de Schweinitz), whilst according to Dyrmont spores contain more fat and nitrogen than vegetative cells. At times a carbohydrate-like granulose would appear to be present. The inorganic constituents represented by the ash amount to about 10 per cent of the dried substance. The proportions between the constituents of the ash vary in different species, as also in the same species under different conditions. A striking- feature of B. tuberculosis is the large amount of phosphoric acid contained in its ash, the same amounting to as much as 55'23 per cent, whereas in the cholera germ we find but 20'48 per cent. According to whether bacteria live upon dead or living matter, as well as according to their most characteristic effects, they have ar- bitrarily, and for the sake of convenience, been classified into zymogenic (fermentative), chro- mogenic (pigment producing), aerogenic (gas producing), saprogenic (putrefactive), photo- genic (light producing), toxicogenic (poison pro- ducing), and pathogenic (disease producing) organisms. Thermophyllic bacteria are such as grow at particularly high temperatures, i.e. at times at a temperature of 60° to 70° C. According to whether the organisms grow in the presence or absence of atmospheric oxygen they are distinguished as aerobes and anaerobes. Certain forms are " facultative," that is, they are capable of multiplying under either the