LUNACY 17 and only 5"3 per cent in England, except on the ground not only of the greater capacity and willingness of the latter to pay the greatly increased cost of maintenance in asylums and of extension of asylums, but also of an alleged greater difficulty in finding suitable guardians and localities. In Scotland, in private dwellings sanctioned by the General Board of Lunacy to receive one, and in houses licensed to receive private or pauper patients up to four, in 1899 there were 125 private patients and 2703 or 21 per cent of all pauper patients. Males were to females in the pauper class in the ratio of 100 to 150; in the private, 100 to 166. Forty-five of the private patients were in licensed houses, and 80 were placed singly. In addition to these there were visited by the Depaty Com- missioners 192 curatory patients residing in family, but not on the lunacy register of private patients. The total number oSicially visited during the year was 3020. Of the insane chargeable to parishes, 1020 were residing with relatives and 1683 with selected strangers. The weekly cost of those living with strangers may be stated at 7 s., exclusive of clothing and medical attendance in sickness — the annual cost being little more than one-half the asylum cost, when, in addition to maintenance, interest upon buildings is taken into account. Of specially licensed houses for two, there were 352, in which 653 patients were placed; for three, there were 86, in which 246 resided; and for four, 42, in which 159 resided. Licenses for three and four are, for obvious reasons, sparingly granted. In such houses males were to females in the ratio of 100 to 189, a figure which, along with the other referred to, shows that up till now it has been an easier matter for the parish authorities to obtain houses for women than for men. And there is a feeling abroad that on the whole women are better adapted for this method of treatment than men. The writer does not share this view to any great extent, but thinks the difference depends very much on the difficulty of getting suitable guardians and suitable employment for males. As a resting- place for the chronic, harmless, and incurable insane, and those who no longer require in- stitutional treatment, the private dwelling, which embraces the licensed house, is so utilised by parish authorities in different areas of the country as to give percentages of the total pauper insane so dealt with varying from 47 to 6 per cent. It is freely used in the northern counties of Ross, Inverness, Shetland, Suther- land, and Caithness, which dispose of their total insane in this way to the extent of 45 per cent. The county of Edinburgh occupies a good position with 29 per cent. Lanark is credited with 16-6 per cent. Nineteen counties fall below the mean of 21 per cent. There VOL. VI is no reason why the mean should not reach a figure as high as 33 per cent. For three years the urban parish of Edinburgh exceeded this figure.^ While the larger percentages ai'e attained by the instrumentality of inspectors of poor anxious and eager to do what is best for the insane themselves and for the taxpayers, regardless of the trouble involved, the smaller percentages may be set down mainly to a striking lack of interest on the part of parish officials. And it is exceedingly doubtful if the numbers provided for in this simple, safe, and economic way will increase much until an official specially set apart for large areas of the country is appointed, and until there is more co-operation between the asylum and parish authorities. It is believed by some that this could be attained in one way by better inducements to guardians in the way of aliment, the maximum at present being 7s. per week. There can be no doubt, for the non-productive patients, a weekly sum of 8s. or 8s. 6d. for aliment would increase the number of those desirous of being- guardians, and induce a class of guardian with better accommodation to apply. This was the case in the experience of the States of New York and Massachusetts, although the experi- ment did not succeed for reasons which do not exist in Scotland. A slight increase of the aliment, which is fixed by the Parish Councils, would be justified, if for no other reason than that the cost of living, fuel, and taxation has risen in recent years. Sir Arthur Mitchell, writing from a unique experience of the insane, says that "if happiness with enjoyment can be increased in the private dwelling, the State has no right to deprive him of that blessing, even if it costs a little more instead of a little less." There is much to be said for this view. The treatment and consideration shown the insane in family is regulated quite as much by kindly and humane feelings as by a sense of duty in return for a payment which at the highest rate of board offered can only leave a narrow margin of profit. To conclude that the attitude of the guardian towards the patient is in the main a selfish one would be as mis- taken in view of the relative positions on the one hand, as on the other to accept that a spirit of altruism solely animated the guardian. The annual saving to the ratepayers on the 2700 insane is not less than £40,000, when compared with asylum cost; and to house them all in institutions, if that became obligatory, would cost nearly a million sterling, the interest on capital, £35,000, being considerably more 1 Clark Bell of New York stated, at a discussion in the Psychiatric Section of the Thirteenth International Medical Congress, Paris, in August 1900, that he had learned from the medical superintendents of large asylums in the United States that 60 per cent of the patients could be properly provided for in this way.