LUNGS, DISEASES worst cases, e.g. acute miliary tuberculosis, yield frequently no expectoration, while other cases of great chronicity present much. None the less is it true that a gradual reduction in expectoration is favourable in most cases. The occurrence of bleeding from time to time should not be looked on as of ill omen. Apart from more pronounced htemorrhages, which may lead immediately to death or produce grave anaemia, heemoptysis actually seems to relieve the patient. Certainly it is not symptomatically the dreadful thing it has often been supposed. The number of bacilli in the expectoration is not a safe gauge for prognosis. This varies from time to time in the same case, according to the source of the expectoration. All the same, persistent abundance of tubercle bacilli is unfavourable, while a gradual tailing off should be regarded as satisfactory. Physical Signs.—Care must be exercised in the interpretation of these. Because physical signs are obvious, the case is not necessarily grave. Thus extensive dulness with marked flattening of chest-wall may be the expression of satisfactory cicatrisation. Some of the most serious cases, e.g. acute miliary tuberculosis, have less obvious physical signSj which may readily be missed or regarded as unimportant. Nevertheless, by means of physical evidence the practised eye and hand and ear can gauge the actual extent and frequently the character of the involvement, and, by observations made from time to time, may determine advance or recession of the process. Temperature readings are of much value. They must be taken regularly and sufficiently often. A continuously normal or slightly sub- normal temperature, with small diurnal range, is satisfactory, and commonly points to a quiescent process or an uncomplicated process going on to cure. It must be borne in mind that such a temperature is consistent with not only dulness but abundant crepi- tations, and even the signs of vomica forma- tion. This is the temperature course repeated in case after case, in the writer's experience, in patients passing on — though still with abundant physical signs—^to recovery on open- air lines. Elevations above the normal line are significant in proportion to their degree and continuance, unless they can be explained apart from the lung disease. Incidental eleva- tions, which necessarily occur from time to time, must be discounted. In each case a sufficient explanation should be forthcoming. A violently swinging temperature commonly points to activity of process and toxic absorption. With improvement, there is not only less elevation, but the swinging tendency gradually disappears. An inverted elevation of temperature—higher in the morning or forenoon than at night—with considerable swing is an unfavourable manifesta- tion. A sudden drop to the subnormal after OF—TUBERCULOSIS 51 the continuance of pyrexic manifestations may be expressive of collapse. The pulse is of great value prognostically. Whatever other indications be present, a rapid, soft pulse means danger. One of the most certain indications of improvement—one which early manifests itself under the open-air regime —is diminution in the pulse rate and increase of arterial pressure. Similar prognostic indica- tions may be got from examination of the heart beat and sounds. The state of the appetite and digestion are significant. Loss of appetite and digestive troubles are among the early manifestations of the disease. Return of appetite and digestive ability are the best indications that the system has begun to cope with the disease ; it is also gratifying evidence that a physiological line of treatment has been adopted. Continuance of gastro-intestinal symptoms interferes with suc- cessful treatment—it is often an expression of wrong treatment—and suggests the possibility of complication {vide infra). The weight affords from week to week satis- factory indication of progress. There is commonly room for gain in weight. Steady increase—say 1-3 lbs. weekly—constitutes a desirable re-enforcement of resistance. Corre- sponding loss of weight indicates failure of resistance and grave disturbance of nutrition. It must be kept in view that mere gain in weight is not everything. An abundance of soft, loose adipose tissue may sometimes be a poor cloak for the nakedness of the bones. To be satisfactory, the gain in weight must be dis- tributed in considerable part throughout the muscular system. The muscles should increase in size, firmness, and tone. Nervous Manifestations.—The disappearance of nerve and muscular irritability and sleepless- ness is a favourable indication. The return of undisturbed, natural sleep is an indication of improvement, no less gratifying to the physician than to the patient. The occurrence of complications gives rise to increased anxiety. More especially significant is evidence of involvement of other organs. Laryngeal disease renders the outlook graver, but far from hopeless. When the epiglottis is implicated, the prognosis is immediately worse, owing to the resultant dysphagia. Tuberculous involvement of the bowel is still more serious, both directly and indirectly from interference with nutrition. When diarrhoea supervenes, it must not be too hastily assumed to be tuber- culosis. Frequently diarrhoea results from improper dietary; in other cases, it is an expression of waxy disease. Peritonitis is not a common complication, and its prognosis is considered elsewhere. Genito-urinary tuber- culosis is more frequent and justifies an ulti- mately bad prognosis. Tuberculous meningitis —a commoner complication than is often