LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 97 open freely into the lymph-paths, and this tissue is packed with leucocytes, mostly of the variety known as small lymphocytes. These leucocytes are almost all formed in the gland, and most freely in its outer subcapsular part, where in any gland which is at all active many germ- centres will be found—portions of the reticular tissue with a special arrangement of blood- vessels and connective tissue which facilitates the multiplication of leucocytes. In the deeper parts of the gland germ-centres are less numerous, but some leucocyte proliferation is found there also. By the constant pressure of new-formed cells from within, those in the neighbourhood of the lymph-sinus and lymph- paths are forced into these spaces, and are made to deal with all materials brought by the lymph to the gland. Many of them are carried off by the lymph-stream, which is always richer in cells on the proximal than on the distal side of a gland; but many remain in the lymph-paths, especially those which have ingested any material from the lymph, for if the material is nutrient they become large cells and can no longer pass through the obstacles, while if the material is injurious thej' die, and are generally ingested by other cells. It is obvious that the supply of leucocytes is greatest at the outer part of the gland in order to meet and deal with the lymph brought in by the afferent vessels. Functions. — A lymph-gland has, therefore, three main functions. It slows the lymph- stream by the extreme tortuosity and intricacy of its channels; it ensures that every particle of lymph shall be brought under the influence of living cells; and it furnishes leucocytes to the lymph, and through that to the blood. The time-honoured comparison to a filter is only partly accurate or apposite, because it leaves out of count the most important of the functions of the gland, the vital action of the cells which inhabit it. In all probability in health this action is largely a chemical one ; it seems prob- able that some metabolic products carried in the lymph are altered before that fluid is passed into the blood, and this can only be done by the leucocytes. In disease these cells have to deal with organisms and their products on the one hand, and with the cells of new growths on the other, but short of actual disease there are many conditions where their action is of im- portance. For example, where a haemorrhage has occurred in a limb, from a bruise let us say, the nearest lymphatic gland will be found to have some of the cells in its lymph-paths gorged with blood pigment or with the remains of broken-down red corpuscles. Again, the axillary glands of a man with tattooed arms, or the bronchial glands of a coal-miner, contain masses of pigment or of carbon, as the case may be, which have been prevented from passing into the blood. When a cancer occurs in the peri- VOL. VI pheral district of a lymph-gland, cells from it pass along the lymphatic vessels and are caught, first, in the external sinus, and beyond any doubt the first of such cells to arrive are in- variably destroyed by the leucocytes of the gland. It is only when the supply of cells is so great as to overcome resistance, or when the nutrition of the individual is so much impaired that he cannot keep his glands in fighting order, that the cancer gets a footing. It begins to grow, first, always in the external sinus, and spreads thence to the hilus. But there is another provision in the gland which comes to be of importance—the capsule. This is sufficiently strong and dense to confine the struggle to the limits of the gland, and it is only after the whole of the gland has become converted into cancerous tissue that the capsule gives way and allows a spread into surrounding- tissues. This encapsulation of the struggle is equally important in organismal infections. After the first gland has been vanquished, it is compelled to allow the passage of the invaders ; but as long as possible it insists that they shall pass along the proper paths, the lymph-vessels, in the course of which they will find fresh de- fences, and that they shall be kept out of the comparatively defenceless periglandular tissues. The lymph-giands thus concentrate organismal attacks on themselves, and often sacrifice them- selves for the whole organism. It must not be forgotten that they are not the first line of de- fence ; that role belongs to the skin and mucous membranes, and it is only when these are passed, sometimes without a visible lesion, that the glands come into play. The gland nearest to the primary seat of infection is always first affected, and thereafter infection spreads along definite paths. An enlarged or inflamed lymph- gland should always make us examine the skin or mucous membrane distal to it; primary affections of lymph-glands are of the rarest possible occurrence. If an infection once makes its way into the glandular chain and masters the glands, it passes from one to the other, quickly or slowly, affecting gland after gland, until ultimately the terminal lymph-channels are reached, and through them the blood be- comes infected. The physician or surgeon is apt to under- estimate the power of resistance of lymph- glands, because in the nature of things he is a witness only of their lost battles—those which they win remain unknown. That the victories are more frequent than we are in the habit of realising is well illustrated by some observations of Manfredi. He examined eighty-eight normal animals and the bodies of three men who had died of non-infectious diseases, and in seventy eight of the animals and all the men found that he could cultivate organisms from some one cr more of the lymph-glands, while the rest of the body, with the occasional exception of the liver