MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 199 normally occur at these periods, appear to force on the morbid process in an extraordinary manner. The whole breast, and not infre- quently both breasts, may be rapidly converted into a solid, heavy, brawny mass of cancer. The skin, which early becomes adherent, is sub- sequently thickened, and presents a coarse or " orange-peel" appearance due to cancerous in- filtration of its lymphatics, some of the larger trunks being occasionally seen to radiate from the nipple as whitish cord-like elevations. Hard cancerous nodules of a shot-like or lenticular character can often be felt disseminated in the skin over the breast and its neighbourhood. Not infrequently the skin has a dusky red colour, and when this is associated, as it often is, with a local and general elevation of tempera- ture, the condition may readily be mistaken for an acute mastitis. It is this acute or inflamma- tory form of cancer which has received the name of mastitis carcinomatosa. The axillary glands are early affected, and secondary growths rapidly appear in many parts of the body. Death generally results within a year of the commencement of the disease. Billroth and others have reported cases in which the disease ran its course in a few weeks. Histologically, the structure of the tumour is that of a very cellular carcinoma, with the scanty stroma infiltrated with leucocytes. Operation in this form of cancer is not to be recommended ; recurrence invariably takes place at an early date, and as a very large area of skin would have to be removed, the disease is almost certain to reappear long before the large granulating surface has had time to heal. Colloid Cancer.—This form of cancer is de- cidedly rare, forming only about 1 or 2 per cent of cancers of the breast, and is characterised, clinically, by its slow growth and by its low degree of malignancy. The axillary glands are either not all affected, or only after the disease has existed for some years. Metastases are rarely met with. The tumour begins generally about middle life as a circumscribed, firm, nodu- lar tumour of slow growth, a history of five to ten years' duration being frequently given. In the two typical cases observed by the writer, the tumour on palpation presented characters intermediate between those of a fibro- adenoma and a scirrhus. The consistence was almost as hard as a scirrhus, the outline better defined, and the surface more nodular; the nipple was not retracted, neither was the skin tacked down. The axillary glands were normal. The tumour was at once distinguished from a fibro-adenoma by the fact that it moved along with, and not independently of, the breast, and tliat it was too hard for a fibro-adenoma. On section a colloid cancer is seen to be non- encapsulated, but somewhat lobulated, due to the translucent, firm, colloid areas being sur- rounded by glistening white fibrous bands. Many of the non-colloid areas have a structure similar to that of an ordinary scirrhus. Microscopically, the colloid material is seen to be the result of degeneration of the proto- plasm of the cancer cells, whole clusters of which may become transformed into colloid areas of various sizes. No doubt it is this tendency to degeneration on the part of the cancer cells which not only delays the growtli of the tumour, but interferes also with dissemi- nation, the cancer cells being imprisoned in the colloid material. The prognosis after complete removal of the breast and clearing of tlie axilla is good, and in all probability, in the majority of cases, it would be equally good although the axilla were not interfered with. Since, however, the micro- scope alone can prove the absence of glandular infection, it is safer to clear out the axilla. Both carcinomata and fibro-adenomata have occasionally a somewhat gelatinous appearance, the result of a mucoid degeneration of the stroma, a condition which must not be mistaken for true colloid cancer. Duct Cancers.—Under this heading there have been described conditions so widely diff'erent as (1) tumours found associated with Paget's dis- ease of the nipple ; (2) villous tumours grow- ing from the lactiferous ducts and from cysts; (3) tubular cancers. The tumour associated with Paget's disease of the nipple is an ordinary scirrhous carcinoma of the spheroidal-celled type, combined with a malignant proliferation of the epithelium of one or more of the lactiferous ducts. Under the title of "Duct Cancers, or Villous Carcinomata," Mr. Bowlby has directed attention to a group of villous tumours the clinical features and life-histoi-y of which he has clearly defined. The writer, however, agrees with Williams, Robinson, and Raymond Johnson, who regard the tumours described by Bowlby as non-malignant; following these authors, therefore, they have been described along with the simple tumours imder the title " Duct Papillomata." We are left, therefore, with the third group, viz., the tubular cancers, which, according to Williams, are alone entitled to be described as duct cancers. Histologically, these tumours "are charac- terised by the presence of elongated intercom- municating cellular processes growing into the surrounding connective tissue. These processes have the form either of hollow tubes lined with one or several layers of columnar epithelium, or of solid cellular cylinders of which at least the peripheral cells are of the columnar tj^pe." The tubular spaces may be dilated into cysts into which papillary growths may project. From the columnar type of those cells, Williams infers that the neoplasms originate from the mammary ducts. Compared with the spheroidal-celled or acinous cancer they are more nodular, better circum-