313 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM spinal fluid drawn from the lumbar region of the cord may not only prove the existence of an acute meningitis, but may determine the etiological factor (see p. 330). Treatment.—The same general rules must be followed as in other forms of meningitis. Absolute rest and quiet; ice-bag to shaved head; in young, strong subjects local depletion by leeches on the region of the mastoid process may be tried, but blisters to the back of the neck should be used with caution, if at all, as they often simply add to the suifering. Osier prefers light application of the thermo-cautery ; attention to the bowels by calomel or an occasional saline purge; great care in feeding; where necessary, sponging in order to reduce the temperature \ guarding against bed-sores. In the treatment of special symptoms (head- ache, vomiting, convulsions) the same measures must be tried as in other forms of meningitis. Among general drugs, iodide of potassium, mercury, and perchloride of iron have been warmly advocated by some authors. As a prophylactic measure, careful treatment of head injuries is of the first importance. In every case of suspected purulent meningitis the most diligent search must be made for a possible source of infection, and, if any local collection of pus can be found, it must be evacuated at once. More particularly in ear disease the signs of commencing meningitis may be relieved by early operative interference, such as paracentesis of the tympanum and trephining of the mastoid process. Extradural and intra- cerebral abscesses, if they can be recognised, should also be dealt with surgically without delay. Even where the purulent exudate in the membranes is well established, surgical measures, although not very encouraging, are not hopeless; successful cases of evacuation of the exudate in purulent meningitis from ear disease have been recorded, and this procedure would seem to be specially indicated in cases of traumatic meningitis of the convexity. Other surgical measures have been tried, but only in the rarest instances with any good result: these measures include puncture of the ventricles with drainage, and, more often, re- moval of a quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar puncture. It is specially in cases of purulent meningitis that the latter procedure has been tried. (S) Chronic Leptomeningitis The chief form of chronic meningitis is that caused by syphilis, which will be considered later {vide infra). Apart from this, chronic meningitis is comparatively rare as a primary aff'ection. Many of the forms of acute meningitis may, however, run a chronic course. This may be the case in tuberculous meningitis, where the tubercu- lous deposit is limited to a part of the surface of the brain. The symptoms are then very similar to those of tumour. So epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis may run a course of sevei'al months ; and cases of posterior basic meningitis in infants, although their onset is almost always acute, may extend over many months {e.g. six and ten months respectively in two cases observed by Lees and Barlow). Chronic meningitis, of limited extent, occurs very often around tumours of the brain, and in the neighbourhood of disease of the cranial bones. The morbid changes consist in cellular infiltration of the pia arachnoid, and generally a somewhat extensive overgrowth of the con- nective tissue of the membrane. In this way there is thickening of the pia arachnoid, which also presents to the naked eye a white opaque look. The changes found in the meninges in general paralysis and similar diff"use chronic afi'ections of the cerebral cortex are probably of this nature, i.e. a chronic meningitis. A similar condition of the leptomeninges — a certain amount of thickening and opacity—is not infrequently met with in the subjects of chronic alcoholism; it affects the convexity chiefly, and more especially over the sulci. It is generally believed to be a diffuse meningitis, which runs a very chronic course with indefinite symptoms. Amongst the chief of these Gowers enumerates " headache, moderate in degree and sometimes absent, slight delirium, mental failure, and slight optic neuritis," and he adds that they are probably in part due to the action of the alcohol on the brain substance. It is not certain that the changes found in the pia arachnoid in this condition are due to true chronic inflammation: thus, Ziegler states that they are " chiefly due to fibrous hyperplasia, or occasionally to endothelial proliferation," not truly inflammatory. 3. Syphilitic Meningitis (Meningo-encephalitis) Apart from vascular lesion, the common form of syphilitic affection of the cerebrum is a chronic meningitis, with simultaneous affection of the brain tissue, the special " specific " lesion being known as meningo-encephxlitis gummosa, which may be circumscribed (gumma) or diffuse. The pathological changes are essentially the same in all cases, and they generally start from the leptomeninges in the subarachnoid spaces, whence they spread outwards to the dura and inwards along the vessels to the cerebral tissue. The primary changes in the pia arachnoid appear to be of the nature of a very vascular, cellular infiltration. The ultimate result is a great thickening of the pia arachnoid; and the new tissue thus formed tends to undergo changes, partly caseous, partly fibroid. The dura mater is also greatly thickened as a rule : thus a thick layer of tissue, almost cartilaginous in hardness, is often found matting together the membranes and the outer part of the cortex,