MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 484 duration, and it is only by prolonged and patient treatment that improvement slowly takes place. The disease here described is that recognised by Gowers imder the above title; there is, however, a disease described by Senator which is widespread and acute, and closely resembles acute myositis above described. (3) Tuberculous Myositis.—Two forms of this disease are described : (1) in which the disease spreads from the neighbouring joint or bone into the muscle ; and (2) in which the disease commences in the muscle itself. Of the first form nothing need here be said. With regard to the second, it occurs most frequently in young persons who are already the subject of tuberculous disease. Symptoms.—The disease is of gradual onset, giving rise to some pain and swelling in the muscle. The mass is usually situated in the middle of the muscle, and is neither directly connected with the neighbouring tissue nor with the skin. The swelling is only tender on firm pressure, and often is quite painless. The function of the muscle remains good. The disease always runs a chronic course, the local condition giving rise to but little trouble; an abscess, however, may form. Morbid Anatomy.—The tuberculous mass lies in the muscle surroimded by a thick connective- tissue wall, the surrounding muscle is often indurated, and there is considerable interstitial change. (4) Syphilitic Myositis.—This disease mani- fests itself in two forms : (1) Diffuse syphilitic myositis; and (2) Muscle .gumma. These two varieties will be described separately. (a) Diffuse Syphilitic Myositis.—The period at which this disease is liable to occur after the primary infection is very varied, one author stating that 50 per cent of the cases occur during the first twelve months after primary infection, while others state that it commonly occurs three to four years after the primary infection, and it may be eleven or twelve. Symptoms. — The disease is gradual in its onset, and attended with considerable pain in the affected muscle, which is usually worse at night; movement, whether active or passive, greatly increases the pain. There is greatly diminished power in the muscle. The muscle feels hard and brawny and is tender on pressure, the skin is reddened and feels hot to the touch, while in other cases the skin is quite natural. The limitation of moveinent in the muscle is due to its inflammatory infiltration. The muscle most commonly affected is the biceps, but almost any muscle of the extremities may be affected, and the condition has been described in the masseter and sphincter ani. The electrical examination of the muscle shows only a quanti- tative change with no reaction of degeneration. The recovery is slow, and often attended by a considerable atrophy in the muscle or muscles affected. Many cases, however, recover com- pletely. Pathological Anatomy. — The microscopical appearances described are dilatation of the vessels, thickening of their walls, exudation of small cells, and at the same time proliferation of the muscle nuclei, lying in part between the primitive bundles and in part within the bundles. In later stages of the disease there is an increase of the interstitial connective tissue, and the ind/vidual muscle fibres become separated from one / another; lastly, the muscle fibres themselves become opaque and their contents granular, and the striation of the fibre dis- appears. Some fibres, however, undergo simple atrophy, and then the striation is preserved even in the smallest fibres. (&) Muscle Gumma.—This condition is stated to occur at a later period than the foregoing affection, and may manifest itself as long a& thirty years after the primary infection. The affection is attended by very little pain, and the first thing that the patient notices is a hard swelling in the muscles, which is not tender on pressure, although some pain may be produced by putting the muscle into action. The muscle most commonly affected is said to be the sterno- mastoid, after that the quadriceps extensor, the calf muscle, the biceps muscle of the arm, the masseter, and the pectoral. The affection is. sometimes symmetrical. The central portion of the muscle is that which is most commonly affected. The presence of the tumour gives rise to very little disturbance in function. The course which the disease runs depends largely on the rapidity of the formation of the gumma; when this has been rapid, and is. treated in an antisyphilitic manner, recovery rapidly takes place; when, however, the tumour has slowly developed it also slowly disappears, and may leave a hard indurated mass in the muscle. The tvimour which is seen in the sterno-mastoid muscle of infants is by some- attributed to a gumma in the muscle, and this- is probably correct in a small proportion of the cases. In these cases the tumour is not noticed at birth, but seems to develop in the first few weeks of life. The swelling disappears under mercurial treatment, but it is always difficult to say whether such a condition may not have been due to some inflammatory swelling taking place around an injured muscle. Pathological Anatomy. — The muscle tissue- around the gumma is generally considerably altered, there is a small cell infiltration and increase of the interstitial tissue between the muscle fibres. The striation of the muscle is generally retained. The vessels are thicker than normal, and dense fibrous bands lie between the muscle fibres. (5) Trichiniasis. — A disease dependent on the invasion of muscle by the parasite *' trichina spiralis " derived from infected pork.