LUNGS, DISEASES OF— 84 -VASCULAR DISORDERS dyspnoea, the local pain, and, when present, the physical signs, render recognition fairly easy. The prognosis is much more difficult to determine, because only in those cases of heart disease in which pulmonary infarctions are common, can we give generally a favourable opinion. But here also pulmonary emboli probably indicate that dilatation of the right heart is passing beyond the limit of compensa- tory hypertrophy, although their occurrence may not greatly incommode the patient. In any case of embolism the prognosis given should be most guarded, because a second embolism may occur, thrombosis may occlude more of the pulmonary circulation, and cardiac failure may supervene. Capillary embolism not merely causes extreme dyspnoea, but is apt to increase, and is therefore generally fatal. Treatment.—Whenever phlebitis exists, ab- solute rest should be enjoined, and much might be said about prophylactic measures during the puerperium, and in all conditions where blood- clotting occurs in the veins. Where embolism is present, rest, oxygen inhalations, opium for the pain and distress and possibly stimulants when necessary, are the only remedies likely to be of service. SyphiUs of the Lungs Our knowledge of both congenital and acquired syphilis is in a most unsatisfactory condition. With the exception of the typical interstitial and white pneumonias of congenital syphilis, and gimimata, common to both the congenital and the acquired forms, we know nothing definitely, and pulmonary lesions in cases of acquired syphilis are seldom of a purely syphilitic nature. 1. Congenital Syphilis.—There are two fairly distinct pneumonic varieties: (a) The white pneumonia of Virchow, which is found only in still-born children, or is compatible, at most, with only a few hours or days of life. It is a diffuse change in one or both lungs, and is sometimes confined to a lobe or part of a lobe only. On section the affected lung is white or yellowish, dry, shiny, may be almost bloodless, and if the child is still-born, is airless. The change consists in great thickening of alveolar walls and enormous proliferation of epithelial cells in the alveoli, most of which are dilated. The epithelial cells are markedly fatty. {h) The interstitial pneumonia rarely occurs alone, and generally is more or less combined with the white form. In its pure form it consists of a small-cell infiltration, which is interalveolar and interlobular in position ; de- struction and tortuosity of the interalveolar capillaries, with periarteritis and endarteritis obliterans of the smaller arteries: and peri- bronchial increase of connective tissue. The alveolar cells may have desquamated to some extent, but do not show the proliferation characteristic of the white form. These changes may involve one or both lungs, or be confined to a lobe or portion of a lobe, and if limited are compatible with life, although tending to cause pulmonary weakness, and a liability to bronchitis, broncho-pneumonia, and so forth; if much lung is involved, life is bound to be shortened. Gummata also occur, especially in connection with the interstitial form. It is very rare to find these forms of pul- monary disease in cases of undoubted congeni- tal syphilis, and it is much more common to see infants, the subject of congenital syphilis, showing evidence of pulmonary tubei'culosis. Certainly congenital syphilis renders the child liable to bronchitis, taroncho-pneumonia, and, above all, to tuberculosis. 2. Acquired Si/philis.—Gummata occur in the tertiai-y stage, and possibly bronchitis may be associated with the typical secondary pharyn- gitis ; but beyond the cicatricial scars following in the wake of the gummata, and causing localised interstitial changes wherever gummata have appeared, and sometimes stenosis of the trachea or a bronchus, we know little or nothing of the eifects of acquired syphilis on the lungs. Gummata are single or multiple, and may be of all sizes, from a millet's seed to a hen's egg, although the larger ones are rare. They may occur anywhere, but preferably along the line of the larger bronchi and interstitial septa, and perhaps most markedly near the root, and in the lower lobe. These gummata resemble gum- mata elsewhere, passing through a gelatinous to a fibrous stage, and tending rather to form a fibrous nodule than to break down and form an abscess. The gummata may infiltrate sur- rounding lung tissue, and when cicatrisation begins, great distortion and scarring inevitably result. It has been suggested by Councilman that the process is originally a pneumonic one with thickening of capillaries, etc., and secondary necrosis ; but, generally, gummata are not found in post-mortem cases until cicatrisation is far advanced, and the earlier stages through which the nodule has passed are indistinguishable. There may be a form of fibroid phthisis due to acquired syphilis, and if so, it will probably commence at the root of the lung and work its way outwards along the septa with the forma- tion of gummata and resulting cicatrisation. It is very doubtful if true pulmonary excavation ever occurs due to syphilis alone, and as yet no absolute proof exists of any such condition. Narrowing of the trachea and bronchi may follow as the result of gummata and cause grave stenosis, sometimes with localised bronchi- ectatic dilatations; and it may be possible to diagnose such cases of stenosis by the stridor and feebler breath sounds over the affected lung, with sometimes evidence of bronchiectatic