236 MEDIASTINUM, THE effect is generally to cause dilatation of the pupil, to be followed after a time by contrac- tion. This symptom is not so common as in the case of aneurysm. Unilateral sweating is another occasional symptom of new growth in the thorax. The pulse gives little or no information in cases of intrathoracic tumour. Pressure of a growth on the innominate or either subclavian may lead to loss of the radial pulse on the affected side, but inequality of the radial pulse is much less frequently met with in the case of intrathoracic growths than in aneurysms. Temperature. — Independently of changes brought about in the lungs, pleura, or peri- cardium, by pressure and irritation of the growth, an elevation of temperature is not a symptom of intrathoracic growth, with two exceptions, viz., a rapidly growing malignant growth, and lymphadenoma. In the latter disease there are curious alternations of periods of high and low temperature without any obvious cause. These alternations are so characteristic that they may be of diagnostic value. There is nothing very characteristic in the general symptoms of intrathoracic growth; even when they are of a cancerous nature the patients may retain the appearance of health, and may not present any symptom of the cancerous cachexia, i.e. peculiar tint of skin, wasting, and aspect of sufiering. Usually, however, there are loss of appetite and impaired digestion, leading to gradually increasing debility and failure of nutrition. The position assumed by the patient varies very much according to the size and situation of the growth. If it be complicated by effusion into the pleural cavity, the patient generally lies towards the affected side. As a general rule, the patient takes the position which will most relieve the root of the lung from pressure. Physical Signs.—The physical signs of an intrathoracic growth taken by themselves are often very obscure and misleading; they should always be considered in connection with the symptoms, and the manner in which they develop should be studied. It must be re- membered that physical signs are most marked in the case of tiimours of the anterior medi- astinum ; a tumour seated in the centre of the lung, and surrounded by healthy lung, will naturally give rise to hardly any physical signs. On inspection, a most characteristic appearance is enlargement of veins. Should the superior cava be compressed the whole of the veins of the upper part of the chest, neck, head, and upper extremities may be distended, and there may be more or less oedema in the same regions, or the pressure may be confined to the innominate vein and consequent limitation of the enlarged veins to one side. Pressure on the vena azygos may lead to pleural effusions, or to filling of the veins in the lower part of the chest, the current of blood being from below upwards. If the smaller azygos vein be compressed there will be dilatation of the superficial veins of the lower half of the thorax, especially on the left side. In some cases the venous obstruction may be so great as for death to be precipitated by the embarrassment of the cerebral circulation. It will be noted that veins suffer much more from the pressure of a tumour than do the arteries, and signs of arterial obstruction are quite un- common. The next point to attract attention is any irregularity or local bulging of the chest. Growths in the posterior mediastinum, unless of a huge size and involving the whole of the pleural cavity, do not usually cause any bulging. In some cases of intrathoracic carcinoma, espe- cially if of the scirrhous variety, there may be retraction of the chest-wall. This point requires to be emphasised, as limitations of mischief to the apex of the lung with contraction might lead to the erroneous diagnosis of fibroid phthisis. Displacement of the heart is another condition which is frequently seen in the case of large mediastinal growths. Lateral displace- ment of the trachea has been recorded as result- ing from the pressure of a mediastinal tumour. If the tumour be large, or if there be obstruc- tion to the main bronchus, impaired mobility will usually be detected on the affected side. In malignant disease of the pleura nodules may be recognised on the surface of the chest. The existence of enlarged glands in the supra- clavicular and axillary regions will necessarily be of considerable diagnostic importance; in some cases the glands are of characteristic stony hardness. The presence of the primary disease may be detected. On palpation, vocal fremitus will be found to vary with the amount of pressure on the bronchus and the nature of the growth between the chest-wall and the lung. If the bronchus be completely compressed vocal fremitus will be lost; if, on the other hand, there be a solid growth intervening between the chest-wall and the bronchus, but without compressing the bronchus, vocal fremitus is stated to be increased. In some cases a pulsation may be transmitted through a soft tumour, and this may simulate an aneurysm. Percussion gives valuable information as to the presence of an intrathoracic tumour, as in the absence of dulness over some part of the chest-wall it is difficult to affirm the existence of a tumour, though it may be suspected. Irregularity in the area of dulness, or a dull note above with resonance below, suggests the presence of a growth in the lung. Especially in cases of new growths in the anterior medias- tinum, the dulness may transgress the middle line. Where a large growth, acting much in