316 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM palate, and larynx are also very common from pressure on the bulbar nerves. Convulsions are not uncommon when the tumour is near the pons, and symptoms of paralysis in the limbs develop in the course of the case from pressure on the motor tracts. A special symptom, when the tumour affects the middle peduncle of the cerebellum as it passes from the pons, is an intense feeling of giddiness and a tendency to stagger to one side. In tumour of the anterior fossa, near the pituitary gland, the chief symptoms are visual, some form of defect of sight, such as bitemporal hemianopsia, unilateral or bilateral amblyopia or blindness, etc. There is often, for a long time, very little abnormal to be detected in the optic discs. Protrusion of the eye is not uncommon. Loss of smell frequently occurs. In marked compression or destruction of the frontal lobes, mental changes may be prominent. Treatment.—This differs in no wise from the treatment of cerebral tumours in general {vide " Brain, Tumours of," vol. i.). Recent de- velopments of cerebral surgery have made the prognosis in meningeal tumours somewhat less unfavourable than is the case with cerebral tumours generally, for, of all brain tumours, those springing from the meninges are most suitable for operative interference, provided that they occupy an accessible situation; in this respect, the most favourable are those growing from the meninges of the vertex and merely compressing the brain without invading it. Minor Conditions 1. Bony Formation in the Membranes {a) In the Dxcra Mater.—-Bony formations are found chiefly in the falx cerebri, usually in the form of irregularly shaped plates, with processes. As a rule they are small, but the whole falx has been found changed into bone, and, more rarely, plates of bone are seen in the dura over the vertex, covering the cortex like a cap. They have been noted as specially frequent in cases of epilepsy and general paralysis. Very little clinical interest can be attached to this condition, as it is not known to give rise to any special symptoms, except, perhaps, obstinate headache in some cases. With regard to the nature of the morbid process, some of these formations appear to be true osteomata; but the majority are regarded as of a chronic inflammatory nature, the result of an ossifying pachymeningitis. Mention may also be made of the fact that calcareous concretions are found not infrequently in meningeal tumours and sometimes in old hsematomata of the dura mater. (6) In the Pia Arachnoid. — Small, white plates of bony consistence are found with great frequency in the spinal arachnoid, but they occur very rarely in the cerebral membrane and, it is said, mainly or solely on the anterior portion of the convexity (Kroemer). They are generally regarded as of the nature of true bone, small osteomata; but they have also been ascribed to degenerative changes, not of the nature of calci- fication, in the fibrous tissue of the membrane. 2. Milkinbss and Thickening of the Pia Arachnoid The normal pia arachnoid is a quite trans- parent and very delicate membrane. Very frequently, however, it is found at an autopsy to be somewhat white, opaque, and thickened, either diffusely or in spots and streaks. This appearance in young children almost certainly indicates a former inflammation, but the same explanation cannot hold good of all cases. It is met with in chronic renal disease and chronic alcoholism, and the morbid change described in such cases is chiefly a simple overgrowth of the connective tissue or occasionally endothelial proliferation; it may also be produced by dis- turbances of circulation, oft-repeated congestive conditions, and particularly by venous engorge- ment (Ziegler). These changes in the appearance of the pia arachnoid are, however, more specially character- istic of mental diseases. According to different authorities, they are present in a greater or less degree in 50 to 70 per cent of all persons dying insane, while they are practically constant in some forms of insanity, especially general para- lysis and senile insanity. The appearance is most marked over the convexity near the large veins. The morbid changes usually described are a round-cell infiltration of the tissues of the pia arachnoid with overgrowth of its fibrous elements, and, as these are regarded as indicative of inflammation, the condition is generally held to be a chronic meningitis. Ford Robertson, however, maintains that the changes are not truly inflammatory, but are brought about by proliferative and degenerative changes of the endothelial cells of the pia arachnoid, combined with a slow overgrowth of its fibrous tissues. The tissue changes, he believes, are the same as those which occur in the dura mater in the same class of cases {vide Hsematoma of the Dura Mater, p. 308), and the essential cause of both is held to be a change in the composition of the cerebro-spinal fluid, consequent on ab- normal metabolism of the cerebral tissues, the pia arachnoid and dura mater alike being re- garded as dependent for their nutrition on the cerebro-spinal fluid. Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic. Introduction . . . . . .317 Tuberculous Meningitis— Etiology 317 Symptoms . . . . .317 Prognosis . . . . .319