430 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE allowing only fifteen epileptic children to be accommodated in one building, or sixty in four such buildings, and as provision was made for twenty-four in each of the Chalfont Homes, they cannot at present be used for the purpose for which they were built. As regards their education, a " Minute of the Committee of Council on Education," dated February 26, 1900, has been issued, and makes arrange- ments for instruction in reading, writing, and az'ithmetic, singing and recitation, object lessons, drawing, needlework for girls, physical exercises, and manual training. This is a good arrange- ment, as physical as well as mental instruction has been provided, and in the case of the younger children, the usual kindergarten train- ing, " learning by doing" has to be taught. Older boys are to be instructed in various trades and gardening and farm work, and older girls in cookery, laundry work, practical hovisewifery, besides the needlework already mentioned. For boys and girls in the higher classes of life, special provision should be made Csee also "Epilepsy" and "Epileptic Colonies," vol. iii.). Children morally imbecile are a very difficult -class with which to deal. Intellectually they are sharp and clever; but their moral character has never been developed, and they thieve, tell lies, are full of cunning, and sometimes are criminal in their tendencies. They promise to behave better if they are remonstrated with ; but these promises are, like pie-crusts, easily broken, and a slight cause produces another outbreak. Usually these cases possess good manual skill, but unfortunately use it for bad purposes. Dr. Jules Morel, who has given a good deal of attention to these cases, is of opinion that they should be confined in build- ings specially set apart for them, so that they cannot infect other children with their evil tendencies. There is no doubt that this is a good plan, for if they are not kept under control, they will end their lives in prison, which is certainly not the place for them. In these institutions they should be made to work at some trade in order to keep them as much as possible out of mischief. Children suffering from moral perversion, of not such severe character as the class just prescribed, should be sent to a special school. These children are often thieves and liars, but they can be reclaimed if properly treated. They require careful management and individual character training. For such boys I can recom- mend the Clayesmore School, Enfield, Middlesex. In this school the headmaster says: " The highest stress is placed vipon the personal insight and study of each boy, with a view to individual character, formation and strengthening, or, in other words, ' character' and hence ' power' is considered first and knowledge ' second.'" This school contains classical and modern sides, and the instruction is of the public school character, except that in this school every boy is properly taught; whereas in some of the public schools the clever boys are pushed on, while the duller ones have in great measure to shift for themselves. Great attention is paid in the Clayesmore school to manual work, which helps to stimulate the powers of resource and self- reliance. Scrofulous children and children of consumptive parents must on no account be pushed on with their school work. On the contrary, they should be kept back; if this course is not pursued the result will be meningitis. They require plenty of exercise in the open air, sun- light, good nourishing food, a large amount of sleep, and the administration of cod-liver oil and maltine. If healthy action of the brain is encouraged, there will be less liability to nervousness, head- ache, and epilepsy. For this purpose it is necessary that there should be plenty of fresh air in the schoolroom. It has been observed that where schoolrooms are insufficiently venti- lated the pupils soon become fatigued and rest- less. The diet should consist not only of meat and vegetables, but of a good supply of sugar and starch, as these substances are necessary for the formation of heat in the body. As boys and girls are both growing beings, plenty of sleep is essential. Boys who do not have sufficient sleep suffer from lowered vitality; and girls not only suffer from want of vigour, but the establishment of the new functions at puberty is interfered with. Dr. Dukes says the amount of sleep required by boys under ten years of age is eleven hours; for boys under thirteen years of age, ten and a half hours; and for boys above thirteen, eight and a half or nine hours ; and the same remarks apply to girls. The number of hours per day at which children of different ages should work has already been mentioned. Finally, the school should be situated, if possible, on gravel soil; on a clay soil there is likely to be a humid atmosphere, which will be wholly unsuitable for children of rheumatic, consumptive, gouty, and neuralgic constitutions. Mindererus, Spirit of. — Liquor ammonii acetatis or Minderer's spirit (R. M. Minderer of Augsburg, who died in 1621, first recommended its use in febrile conditions). See Ammonium and its Salts {Acetate). Miner's Anaemia..—Anchylostomiasis {q.v.) or uncinariasis. See Parasites [Stron- gylidcB). iVIiner's Dermatitis. See Derma- titis Traumatica et Venenata in Coal-Miners. IVIiner's Elbow. See Elbow-Joint, Region of, Injuries and Diseases of [Bursitis); BuRS^ (Bursitis).