550 NEPHRITIS the diagnosis of lardaceous disease is, however, more frequently to be founded upon other and more certain signs. With renal cirrhosis the skin is sometimes abnormally dry, and it may be difficult to pro- voke diaphoresis. This difficulty, which may arise in the treatment of urtemic symptoms, frequently serves to render the diagnosis of cirrhotic changes more certain. A similar con- dition is occasionally met with in the slight albuminuria which is so frequently associated with advanced diabetes. The dryness of the skin is then dependent, however, upon the diabetic changes and upon the drain of water from the system. From the changes in the nervous system many indications may be obtained. Reference has already been made to the persistent head- ache of chronic nephritis and renal cirrhosis. These headaches are not always very severe, though usually they are of a violent neuralgic type. The headaches of chronic uraemia must be carefully differentiated from those which occur with functional albuminuria, as, for ex- ample, with the albuminuria of adolescence. In the latter condition the headache is of a dull nature and associated with intense lassitude and disinclination to work. With functional albuminuria, also, it may be noted that the headache is not so persistent, that it is more marked in the early part of the day, and that it often passes off with exercise or with food. Sometimes in paroxysmal hsematuria or hjemo- globinuria complaint of lassitude is made, and this occasionally precedes as well as follows the paroxysmal attack. Renal disease may frequently be first inferred from affections of vision. A gradual develop- ment of dimness of vision may lead to an ophthalmoscopic examination and to the recog- nition of albuminuric retinitis, or of distinct haemorrhages. Sometimes, however, dimness of vision may occur suddenly after a fit, which may be called by the patient a " fainting fit," or a " convulsive seizure," and in such cases it is uncommon to find much evidence of retinal change. When " fainting fits " occur, the possi- bility of ursemic origin should be considered and the water should be examined. These fits are more prone to ensue in connection with renal cirrhosis than with any other form of renal change, with the exception, perhaps, of acute nephritis, especially when a sequel to scarlet fever. In the latter case, however, the diagnosis has probably been made long before the ursemic seizures have occurred. Although it is fairly easy, by a consideration of all the surrounding circumstances and by careful and repeated examination of the water, to determine the probable cause of the albu- minuria and the probable nature of the renal change, if any, it must be admitted that it is frequently difficult to determine accurately the stage of the disease, more particularly in connection with chronic nephritis. Sometimes intercurrent attacks of haematuria may cause an unguarded diagnosis of acute nephritis to be made, and this has necessarily to be altered when the blood disappears, and the urine is found to remain albuminous and pale. It is still more difficult, in cases of chronic nephritis, to decide whether the kidney is in the enlarged condition or whether it has undergone secondary contraction. These refinements, however, are of relatively little importance, compared with the question of determining the extent to which the kidney is still capable of performing eliminative work. General Prognosis in Nephritis So long as the kidney retains the power of removing sufficient nitrogenous waste from the system, and so long as it is able to remove sufiicient water, the immediate prognosis is fairly good, since whatever the pathological condition, it is evident that some parts of the kidney retain the power of doing good work. It is necessary, however, to consider the amount of the loss of albumin. The amount, in many cases of Brighb's disease, notably in cases of renal cirrhosis, is so small that it is almost a negligible quantity — in fact, the drain of albumin is so readily repaired by the consump- tion of food that the patient appears to suffer very little from this cause. In all probability this is the explanation of the prolonged course of some well-recognised cases of chronic nephritis. The prognosis becomes more grave as the loss of albumin increases. When a large drain of albumin occurs with chronic nephritis, it is always associated with great reduction of weight and loss of strength. Careful attention must be paid to the daily variations in the amount of albumin; it is unwise to form an opinion on the examination of a single specimen, but when the water is repeatedly examined and the percentage of albumin is always found to be very great, the prognosis becomes gloomy. In the prognosis of Bright's disease it is important to recognise two classes, according to the early or late termination. Thus many patients with acute Bright's disease may have a favourable early prognosis, and a doubtful late prognosis ; that is, the immediate prognosis so far as danger is concerned may be favourable, while there may be great danger of the establish- ment of chronic nephritis, in which case the remote prognosis would necessarily be more hopeless. A very large number of patients with simple acute nephritis recover, provided that the disease is uncomplicated—in fact, the prognosis of acute nephritis depends very largely upon the complications and sequelae. It is rarely possible, however, to speak very definitely about the prognosis in any particvilar case, since, in spite of severe symptoms which may