METRO- 386 lx.r)rpoL, the matrix or womb) means relating to the uterus; thus metrocele is a hernia of the uterus, metroclyst is an instrument for injecting fluids into the uterus, metrocampsis is flexion of the uterus, metropathy is disease of the uterus, and metroscope is a sort of vaginal stethoscope for listening for the foetal heart. Metrocyte.—A mother-cell, or that form of large red corpuscle from which the ordinary red blood corpuscles are derived. Metrodynia,. — Pain in the uterus; hysteralgia. Met roman ia. — Nymphomania. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhibition); Climacteric Insanity ; Menopause. Metrophlebitis.—Inflammation affect- ing the uterine veins. See Puerpbrium, Patho- logy [Puerperal Infection, Pycemia). Metroptosis.—Prolapse of the uterus. See Uterus, Displacements of [Prolapse). Metrorrhag'ia.—A haemorrhagic dis- charge from the uterus occurring between the usual menstrual periods. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease); Hysteria (Circulatory Disorders); Menopause ; Menstruation and its Disorders (Metrorrhagia); Uterus, Tumours of. MetrOSalping^itiS. — Inflammation of the uterus and Fallopian tubes. See Fallopian Tubes ; Uterus, Inflammation of. Metrotome.—An instrument for divid- ing or incising the lips of the cervix uteri; hysterotome. Metry-.—in compound words metry- (Gr. (jL-^Tpa, womb) signifies relating to the uterus; e.g. inetrypercesthesis (excessive sensitiveness of the uterus), metryperxinesis (excessively active contractions of the uterus), and metrypertrophia (enlargement of the uterus). MetSdinikofPs Theory. See In- flammation (Phenomena, Escape of Blood Cor- puscles, Phagocytosis); Metchnikoff's Theory. Meunier's Sigri. — A loss of weight occurring during the incubation period of measles. Meyer's Disease.— Adenoids of the naso-pharynx or hypertrophy of the pharyn- geal tonsil. See Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths. Mezerei Cortex.—Mezereon Bark or Mezereum is the dried bark of the root of Daphne mezereum, one of the Thymelacese. Externally it acts as a powerful local irritant (rubefacient and vesicant), and internally it stimulates the gastric mucous membrane; it contains a glucoside (Daphnin, C^gH^gOg) and an acrid resinous principle, and it has been given in syphilis, chronic rheumatism, and in some skin diseases (dose, 10 grains). The bark enters into the composition of Liquor Sarsee Compositus Co7icentratus. Miasm or Miasma.—A noxious ex- halation or emanation (Gr. fiiacrna, a pollution), especially from marshy ground. See Malaria. Mica.—A crumb, e.g. mica panis, bread- crumb. Michaeiis' Obliquity.—The attitude of slight extension which the foetal head occupies at the brim of the mother's pelvis in some cases of labour (e.g. in flat pelvis). See Labour, Pre- cipitate and Prolonged (Pelvic Deformities). Micranatomy.—Histology (Gr. lj.iKpo<;, small, and avaro/jirj, dissection). Micrang'ium or Micrangfion.— A capillary vessel; hence micrangiopathy means the diseases of capillaries. Micrencephalon.—The cerebellum. MicrencephalUS.—An individual with an abnormally small brain ; a cretin. See also Microcephalus. Micro-.—In compound words micro- (Gr. /xtKpos, small) signifies small; e.g. microbe (a small organism : Gr. fiiKpog, small, and ^Gtos, life), microtome (an instrument for cutting very thin sections of tissue for microscopic examination), etc. Microbacillus of Sabouraud.— A small bacterium found in the comedo. See Skin, Bacteriology of (Bacteria found in the Comedo). M icroben ner.—A finely-pointed cautery used by Unna to destroy minute areas of dis- eased skin in lupus. See Lupus Erythematosus (Treatment). Microbism.—The presence in the tissues of microbes causing morbid changes (active microbism), or capable of causing such (latent microbism). Microblast. — A small nucleated ery- throcyte or immature red blood corpuscle; a small erythroblast. It is found in the blood of the foetus, and, under pathological conditions, in that of the adult. See Blood (Cellular Constituents, Erythrocytes). M iCroblepharon. — Congenital short- ness of the eyelids, especially of the upper ones.