119 MALARIA conditions exhibit passive movement, always, however, remaining in the protoplasm of the parasite and never being found in its nucleus; they vary in amount, in colour, and in size. The degree of the amoeboid activity of the pro- toplasm and the character of the pigment granules form two important diagnostic features in distinguishing species. The malarial parasite, like certain of the Coccidiidee, is characterised by possessing two cycles of development. By following the one it matures and propagates within its human host by an asexual mode of reproduction. By the other, in order to attain maturity, after having partially developed in man it enters a second host, namely, certain species of mosquito. The mode of reproduction in the latter case is a sexual one. It is the mosquito cycle that en- sures the perpetuation of the parasite, because it is by this means that it is enabled to pass from man to man. The Human Phase of the Parasite.—If the blood of a patient be examined during an attack 0®..-f0 ' ox) ^ Fia. 2.—Benign tertian parasite (diagrammatic). The dotted circles indicate the outlines of the red copuscles. of malarial fever, for example of the benign tertian variety, and if the examination be made shortly after the rigor, a certain number of the red corpuscles will be found to contain small amoeboid bodies (see Fig. 2, a). These bodies are pale and somewhat indistinct, their index of refraction differing but little from that of the protoplasm of the red cell. They are constantly changing shape, protruding and retracting pseu- dopodia. On rare occasions two pseudopodia may be seen to join one another and enclose a little mass of haemoglobin. At this stage of development there are no pigment granules present. Some of the infected I'ed cells may contain two or more of the amoeboid bodies. A few observers are of opinion that these early forms of the parasite are epicorpuscular, that is to say, attached only to the surface of the corpuscle. There can be little doubt, however, that they ultimately become endocorpuscular, for the pseudopodia are never seen to protrude beyond the limits of the red cell; and if one of the parasites be watched it appears to be distinct at one moment, and at another to fade almost from view, as if it rose to the surface of the red cell and then sunk into its substance again. If the parasite were always epicorpus- cular such optical effects would not be produced, for the little organism would always be in the same focus. If the blood of the patient be examined again after an interval of twelve hours the parasites ^ will be found to have increased consider- ably in size and to occupy nearly one- ': fourth of the red corpuscle (see Fig. 2, b). They are still amoeboid. A few granules of pigment will now be observed in the protoplasm. Occasionally there can be seen a definite clear area which does not participate in the amoeboid movement, and which never contains pigment; this is the nucleus (Fig. 2, c). By ordinary methods of staining the nucleus can always be distinguished; it remains colourless, and so contrasts with the stained proto- plasm of the parasite (see Fig. 1). On using appropriate methods of staining, an intensely tinted spot, usually eccentrically located in the nucleus, may be observed; this is the nucleolus (see Fig. 1 and Plate I. a). If the blood examination be repeated after another interval of twelve hours the parasite will be seen to have increased still further in size, and to have developed more pigment. Amoeboid movement will be now less active, and staining shows that the nucleus and nucleolus have apparently changed but little in size and character (see Fig. 2, c). If blood examinations be continued at intervals a gradual increase in size can be traced, until a short time before the next rigor the parasites come to occupy nearly the whole of the corpuscle (see Fig. 2, d). If a stained specimen of the blood be now examined, it will be seen that the nucleus which hitherto had remained single has become broken up into little masses scattered throughout the parasite. Apparently at a late stage, prior to its division, the nucleolar matter becomes fragmented and diffused in the nucleus. These nucleolar masses stain well by the