MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 286 Great as were the benefits conferred by anjes- thetics, they have been far outdone by those of antiseptic treatment and aseptic operations, including the employment of aseptic and ab- sorbable materials for ligatures and sutures. Chloroform and ether had almost abolished shock, but the incubus of septicfemia paralysed the hand of the surgeon when any operation seemed indicated, involving opening of the abdomen or resection of its viscera. Now, how- ever, all is changed—septicemia and "pyEemia" are practically unknown : amputations of limbs heal without suppuration, requiring but one or two dressings; operations, as ovariotomy, that men still living once denounced as unjustifiable, if not criminal, are of daily occurrence, with fatalities under 1 per cent; and resections of portions of the stomach and intestine, amputa- tion of portions of the liver, operations on the gall bladder and ducts, the kidneys and lungs, removal of tumours from the brain and cord, with others which were, and rightly, deemed inadmissible, if not impracticable five-and-twenty years ago, are now undertaken without hesita- tion by every surgeon. This increased safety, among other conditions, has had the effect of creating a special branch of practice, at once medical and surgical, that of gynjecology, which has, however, in some respects, suffered from excess of zeal and a tendency to one-sidedness of view. The progress of scientific medicine has been greatly favoured by the invention of physical aids to diagnosis and treatment, as the enor- mous development of electric methods, apparatus for measuring the blood pressure and counting the cells, and examining the lungs and heart, the ophthalmoscope, laryngoscope, and apparatus for inspection of internal cavities, and the chemical and bacteriological examination of the secretions; but within the last decade a wholly new and unexpected power has been acquired in the Rontgen rays, which enable one to take pictures, and the fluorescent screen on which one can see objects and structures within the body, the transparency or opacity of media to these rays being entirely independent of their behaviour towards those of the spectrum and in some relation to their density. At first the new method was employed by surgeons only in the diagnosis of fractures, etc., and the de- tection of foreign bodies, as bullets; but it promises to be of at least equal value to the physician in the recognition of areas of conges- tion and consolidation in the lungs from what- ever cause before any physical signs have been produced, and after they have disappeared. Within the last two years a new method of treatment, phototherapy, has been introduced, and applied with the best results in the cure of lupus, which had been shown by Volkmann to be a cutaneous tuberculosis. It is based on the well-known inhibitory action of light on the growth of many bacilli, and consists in the re- peated exposure of the affected part to the concentrated rays of the most powerful electric light obtainable, brought to a focus after the heat rays have been intercepted, so that the bacilli are killed in situ, while the local irrita- tion is quite insignificant. Medicine; iVIedicai Practi- tioner, Law as to. Introduction ...... 286 Physicians ...... 286 Surgeons 287 Apothecaries . . . . . .287 Medical Acts 287 Medical Council . . . .288 Qualification for Registration . . 288 Privileges of Registered Persons . .289 Fees op Witnesses .... 289 Women 289 Dentists . . . . . .290 Liability for Negligence . . .290 Criminal Responsibility . . . 290 Pharmacopceia . . . . .290 Notification of Disease . . . 290 See also Midwives. Introduction. •— The practice of the healing art has long obtained legal sanction and recog- nition in this country. Practitioners were divided into three main branches, known re- spectively as physicians, surgeons or barber chirurgeons, and apothecaries, whose functions and status were quite distinct, who were gov- erned by different charters and statutes, and pursued their callings independently of, and sometimes in antagonism to, one another. Be- sides the above, there have always been, as there are still, persons who attended to human ailments without having any legally recognised qualification for doing so. The union of all qualified persons, and their recognition as members of one profession, is modern. Physicians.—By a statute passed in the year 1511 (3 Hen. VIII. c. 11), no person was per- mitted to take upon him to exercise and occupy as a physician and surgeon until he had been examined and approved for that calling. The examination was in those days conducted under the sanction of, and the approval obtained from, the bishop of the diocese. Physicians obtained a charter of incorpora- tion in the year 1518, and in 1522 the College got the right of examining and approving persons to practise physick, concurrently with graduates of the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. The bishop's license was thus superseded (14 & 15 Hen. VIII. c. 5). The Col- lege were also empowered to exercise control and supervision over all dealers in drugs. By a sulsscquent Act of the same reign (32 Hen. VIII. c. 40), persons chosen and admitted by the President and Fellowship of the College of Physicians were authorised to practise in