56 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS cussed (p. 53). Having regard to the facts, attention to cleanliness in this i-espect cannot be too great. The consumptive patient should not share the same bed as another, and, where possible, not even the same room. It is a convenient rule to insist on the use of separate table and other utensils. As we have seen (p. 52), the con- sumptive patient should not marry. But the doctor is not the sole arbiter here. It is right, however, to emphasise the danger, not only in respect of possible family, but immediately in respect of the unaffected party to the contract. Both the prohibition and the risk are less important if the tuberculous process be quite latent. If a mother or other member of a family be affected, the less of close contact on the part of the others, more especially delicate children, the better. Kissing should in such circum- stances be avoided. An affected mother's milk will be replaced by sterilised cow's milk. To prevent the carriage of infection to other parts of his body, the consumptive patient must on no account swallow the expectoration. In his own interest he cannot be too rigid in its disposal on the lines already proposed. The early removal of tuberculous glands should be favoured as a prophylactic measure in this sense. All unhealthy conditions of mucous surface, e.g. tonsils, will be carefully looked to. Lastly, from this point of view it is often necessary that the consumptive change his occupation; for example, that he give up a sedentary, indoor life, spent unavoidably in badly ventilated, over- crowded, or dusty places, in favour of a more or less out-of-door life—even at the risk of reduc- tion of income. This may have to be enjoined. In some instances the indications are even better met by a change to another country, not so much because the climate is necessarily better, but because with more sunshine and fair weather the individual is likely to lead a more out-of- door life. II. Therapeutic The treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis has in the past been too largely empirical and symptomatic. Much of it has been unphysio- logical. With a definite pathogenesis, the treat- ment must become more rational. The disease is due to an organism which preferably estab- lishes itself and spreads on tissues whose resist- ance is lessened by various causes. The bacillus interferes locally with the function of the organ invaded by effecting disintegrative changes. Still more important—the bacillus produces con- stitutional disturbance, tending towards death by the elaboration of toxic products, which are the resultant of the life-history of the bacillus. The following division suggests the lines on which rational treatment should proceed :— A. Measures for improving the resistant powers of the tissiies. B. Measures for attacking the tubercle bacillus more directly, or neutralising the products result- ing from the growth and development of the bacillus within the body. C. Measures for relief of more important symptoms and complications. It goes without saying that in most cases these measures require to be combined. A. Measures for Improving the Resistant Poivers of the Tissues.—The adoption of these is meantime the most hopeful line. Nature unaided cures tuberculosis daily. We prevent this natural cure by imposing unphysiological conditions. Remove these and aid the natural tendency towards cure by every available means, and recoveries will become an everyday experience. The return to a physiological life—that is, the readjustment of the morbid processes on physiological principles—must be the motif of successful treatment, whether it be conducted at home or in a sanatorium. The chief advantage of the latter lies in the fact that it is difficult to obtain what is necessary under the ordinary conditions of home life. Under a well-conceived regime, in a well-regulated sanatorium, this is comparatively easy. Still the physiological principles which underlie the method are capable of application, more or less complete, almost anywhere. A bright, dry dwelling-house with a garden of comparatively small dimensions may be readily adapted to the purpose. Even in the dwelling-house which has no gai'den much of the benefit may be got, if the physiological indica- tions be rightly apprehended. We shall consider the difterent indications seriatim. (I) Fresh Air and Sunlight.—The patient is to be bathed in fresh air day and night, irre- spective of the weather. Nothing should be accepted as an excuse for a reversal of the policy—neither rain, nor sun, nor wind, nor mist. Throughout an experience of many years and the treatment of hundreds of patients, the writer has not on a single occasion seen the slightest accident occur in relation to the fullest exposure of the patient day and night to this influence. This applies to both pyrexic and apyrexic cases. Short of actual chill, which can be avoided by suitable clothing and shelter, there cannot be too free exposure. During the day the patient is best outside entirely, resting chiefly either on a couch or reclining chair or other seat according to the stage of the illness. When for any reason, e.g. a complicating diarrhoea or such like, it is inconvenient to have the patient outside, the bed should be advanced to the widely opened window. It is marvellous how quickly patients come to enjoy the treat- ment, and little is heard about draughts. The latter can, however, be readily excluded, whether inside or outside, by means of folding- screens or swing-screens attached to window- corners and angles of the house. Outside, more