MILK 421 of the disease. The fact of milk being infected from external sources, and being thus a passive vehicle for the spread of scarlatina and enteric fever, is proved by the evidence of numerous well-established outbreaks. Legal Considerations.—Sec. 4 of the Infectious Diseases Prevention Act, and sec. 71 of the Public Health (Lond.) Act, empower the medical officer of health, when satisfied that " dangerous infectious disease has been caused by milk from a particular dairy, to obtain from a magistrate an order prohibiting the sale of the milk within the district" when there is nothing to hinder its sale elsewhere; and as a matter of fact the condemned, or rather the inculpated milk, is usually sent to London to be sold as " accom- modation milk" to retailers, when it may be the cause of many outbreaks, and scattered cases of disease that cannot be explained by local investigation. Section VI.—Adulteration Whatever may have been is the past, the only adulteration now practised is dilution with water or with separated milk. The former involves a reduction of the solids not fat as well as of the fat, and as they are far the less variable it is, imless very small, more easily detected than the latter, wliich if not carried to the extent of reducing the fat below the per- missible percentage, cannot be proved to the satisfaction of the Court. The so-called standard fixed by the Society of Public Analysts, fat 2"5 per cent, other solids 8*5 per cent, is inexcusably low, representing not a "standard," but an irreducible minimum, and certainly encouraging, indeed practically legalising the watering of all milks of average or superior quality "to the prejudice of the purchaser," who does not obtain an article " of the substance, natiire, or quality demanded." Limits and Variations in Normal Milks.— Richmond found the average of 200,000 sam- ples—water 87-10, fat 3-90, S.N.F. 8-80. The maximum and minimum F. 12'52 and 1-04, S.N.F. 10-6 and 4-9, but many of these may have been watered, since S.N.F. under 8 is strong presumptive evidence of dilution. Among 6462 normal milks from different breeds the fat was above 3 per cent in 6221, above 4 per cent in 4335, and above 5 in 1540. Bell found the fat to average over 5 per cent in Jerseys and Guernseys, and under 3 per cent in Sussex, Devon, Dutch, and shorthorns. The S.N.F. under 9 per cent in these and Kerrys, but the last-named had over 4 per cent of fat. From November to March all solids are highest, from May to August lowest; from February to April the fat falls rapidly, and in September and October the total solids are rising. The morning milk is richer than the evening, and Monday's milk is poorer, probably from neglect in feeding on Sunday. In 2293 the S.N.F. were under 8 per cent in 2 only. Boussangault found in six partial withdrawals of the milk of a single cow the fat to rise from 1'70 to 4'02, the other solids remaining practically constant; indeed the very last or "strippings" may yield 10 per cent of fat and be indistinguishable from cream, while the first or "foremilk" may have less than 1 per cent. Preservatives.—It is much to be desired that the retailing of milk were wholly in the hands of substantial firms or companies, to the ex- tinction of the petty dealer; for the former, whole daily send-out may be reckoned by thousands of gallons, can always keep their supplies considerably above the demand, putting the surpkis nightly through the separator for turning it into the more lucrative form of butter, whereas to the keeper of a small shop a few gallons left on hand would mean the loss of the day's profits. It is therefore treated with a preservative which will keep it apparently un- changed until the next day, when it is mixed with the morning's milk, or sold over the counter to the poor. Boric acid or formalin are most used. But such preservation is imperfect and transient. Milk cannot be sterilised by chemicals in the small quantities that can be used, and it is doubtful whether such milk is much less unwholesome than it would have been if sour. Section VII.—Examination Much ingenuity has been expended to little purpose on devices for the ready determination of the quality of milk. The " cremometer," a graduated cylinder showing the percentage of cream rising spon- taneously in a given number of hours, though exhibited in most dairies, is scientifically worth- less, since the rate of rising depends on many conditions, and even when complete is in no constant ratio to the amount of fat. The " lactoscope," on the principle of the photo- meter, aims at determining the fat in suspension by the thickness of the film required to produce the same degree of opacity as one of normal milk 2 mm. thick. It is fairly accurate, but is now seldom employed here. "Lactometers," or araiometers, purport to show the specific gravity, or rather the specific volume, which is the resultant of the opposing factors of the fat which tends to lower it below that of water, and of the other solids which raise it higher; the latter being always in excess, dilution with water lowers the specific gravity about 3° for each 10 per cent added at the temperature of 60° F.; but the original specific gravity of the given sample must be known; and since ab- straction of the fat raises it, poor milk having a higher, and skimmed milk the highest, specific gravity, it would be easy so to adjust the skimming and the watering that the specific gravity of the doubly impoverished milk should