179 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF fibrous tissue, with scarcely any parenchyma visible to the naked eye. The microscope shows everywhere an increased amount of dense and somewhat sclerosed fibrous tissue, very poor both in connective tissue and corpuscles and blood-vessels. Here and there, at wide intervals, are the mammary ducts, con- nected with which are a few atrophied acini. There is a want of differentiation between intralobular and interlobular connective tissiie, and the fatty tissue of the mamma is almost entirely replaced by fibrous tissue. From the absence of any signs of inflammation, either clinically or histologically, the name diffuse fibrosis, originally given to the affection by Virchow, is very appropriate. The disease differs from hypertrophy of the mamma in that the fibrous over- growth is not progressive. After a vari- able duration, lasting generally for many months, or even two or three years, the disease comes to a standstill. More rarely the fibrous tissue undergoes an irregular cicatricial atrophy leading to retraction of the nipple, irregular puckering of the skin, and shrinkage of the whole organ. Although a rare disease, the writer has deemed it advisable to dwell upon it on account of the fact that it is very liable to be mistaken for a diffuse carcinoma: the few specimens which the writer has had an opportimity of examining have all been removed on this supposition. The long history, the consistence of the organ —firm and tough instead of dense and hard,—and the absence of lymphatic glandular enlargement, are the main features which serve to distinguish it from carcinoma. It must be admitted, however, that in the stage of cicatricial atrophy with puckering of the skin and retraction of the nipple, the resemblance to a diffuse atrophic scirrhus is so close that a clinical diagnosis may be impossible. Treatment.—As pointed out by Sheild, the disease is so closely analogous to the syphilitic interstitial inflammations of glandular organs that a specific history should be carefully in- quired into, and, even if this cannot be elicited, a course of iodide of potassium along with mercurial inunction should always be given a trial. The inunction may, with advantage, be combined with strapping and a firmly applied bandage. The liniment of the iodide of potassium is another useful local application. In the early stage, when the disease is advan- cing, a belladonna plaster should be applied. In cases where the diagnosis is at all doubtful a diagnostic incision should be made, and if this does not suffice to clear up the doubt the organ should be removed. Chronic Lobular Mastitis and Multiple Cystic Disease.—Fibroma mammce lobulare (Virchow); Mastitis chronica cystica (Konig); Maladie cystique de la mamelle (Reclus). This is an interesting and important affection of the mamma, both from the pathological and clinical point of view. The nature and patho- logy of the disease has given rise to considerable discussion, and it is not surprising, therefore, to find it described under a variety of names, the particular designation selected depending upon whether the inflammatory, the cystic, or the neoplastic element is regarded as the essential factor in the morbid process. From personal observation the writer regards the condition as a chronic lobular mastitis, which is attended Fig. 8 Chronic lobular mastitis and multiple cystic disease; from an unmarried woman, jet. 40. The normal grape-like arrangement of the ultimate lobules of the parenchyma around one of tlie ducts is well shown. The stroma surrounding the duct is sclerosed ; the inter- acinous connective tissue is increased in amount, and shows a con- nective tissue proliferation and a slight leucocyte infiltration. Some of the acini are dilated, others compressed ; the epithelium of the acini Is proliferating, but is confined within the basement membrane. To the extreme right is a portion of the wall of a small cyst. with proliferative as well as degenerative and cystic changes on the part of the epithelium of the gland parenchyma. The disease has a close analogy to the early, or glandular, stage of prostatic hypertrophy. The term " mastitis chronica cystica" (Konig) is that which best expresses the nature of the disease. The disease is usually met with in unmarried, or in married but childless, women from thirty to forty years of age. Both breasts are almost invariably affected, either simultaneously or one after the other. There is seldom any history of injury, but the irritation of badly fitting corsets may in some instances be an element in the causation. The subjects of the disease are commonly spare and rather delicate - looking women, who are very frequently the subjects of dysmenorrhcea.