LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 26 The distribution of tubercle throughout the lung and the subsequent changes which take place vary according to the avenue of entrance of the tubercle and the acuteness or chronicity of the process. Three possibilities fall to be considered: (1) If the bacillus, as is most common, reaches the lung by way of the re- spiratory passages, the subsequent changes are usually, though not always, of more chronic nature, and the distribution of the tuberculous change more local. The micro-organism com- monly passes the main air-passages and becomes entangled in one of the terminal bronchioles or alveoli. Having obtained a footing, the bacillus initiates the series of changes which go to the evolution of the tubercle — proliferation of epithelial and connective-tissue cells and accumulation of migratory leucocytes (p. 22). The further developments, as the different elements of the lung-tissue are disturbed, will be considered presently. (2) If the bacillus, as not infrequently happens, reaches the lung by way of the blood circulation, e.g. from a caseous focus in some other organ or gland or in the lung itself, the subsequent changes are likely to be rapid and widely distributed throughout both lungs and probably other organs of the body. The micro-organism is entangled in embolic fashion in the alveolar capillaries, and here the process of tubercle formation is commenced. By extension the alveolar wall becomes implicated. (3) If the bacillus, as occurs rarely, reaches the lung by way of the lymph channels from a carious con- dition of bone (vertebra, rib) or a tuberculous gland, the resultant process is likely to be gradual and localised to an area, which has for its centre the first point of eruption. In this case, likewise, the bacillus starts the process of tubercle-formation, until a group of miliary tubercles or a larger tuberculous - focus is produced. In each case, while the process of tubercle- formation is the same (p. 22), the after-effects and resultant appearances depend on the path of entrance and extension, and the acuteness or chronicity of the process. In acute miliary tuberculosis the lung may present merely the evidences of congestion and a miliary eruption of tubercles, each of which, to the naked eye, resembles the other—greyish or greyish-yellow specks or grains about the size of millet seed—and, on microscopic exami- nation, reveals the structure of the tubercle already described. Such a lung may contain in addition an older tuberculous focus, to which the miliary eruption is perhaps secondary. The appearances of such a focus are similar to those to be described presently in relation to chronic tuberculosis. When invasion is by way of the respiratory passages, the process sometimes becomes limited through the development of fibrous tissue. This forms a barrier to the further migration of bacilli. Later on, shrinkage and cicatrisation of the area takes place, with perhaps slight puckering of the pleura over the part. This is the kind of thing seen frequently, post- mortem, in the lungs of persons who have died from other conditions altogether. On the other hand, the process may not be so limited. The bacilli multiply and distribute themselves among the tissues in all directions by direct continuity, or through lymph channels, or by the air-passages. At each point of successfvil attack the process of tubercle-formation repeats itself. Groups of tubercles are formed; these in turn may become aggregated into larger masses. The gradual fusion and cell necrosis which follow produce the appearance known as caseation. Associated with the deposit of the bacilli and the consequent irritation, congestive changes occur in the neighbouring structures — bronchiolitis, peribronchitis, and broncho-pneu- monia. The above sketch is sufticiently descrip- tive and explanatory of the appearances of congestion, infiltration, and caseation, which are sometimes less satisfactorily referred to as con- stituting definite stages of one process. With the extension of disease throughout the lung, the successive steps of the morbid process are repeated in fresh areas. The amount of fibrosis determined varies much in diffei-ent cases. It is commonly greater in proportion to the chronicity of the process. What happens further to the caseous focil They may become encircled by a zone of re- actionary fibrosis. Thus encapsuled, the cheesy material sometimes calcifies and a firm con- cretion results. This may be found in situ, or if softening occur in its neighbourhood, it may be expectorated in life (p. 30). Such softening is apt to occur, and the disintegrating material makes its way into the air-passages, leaving cavities of varying size. When the resultant cavities are of small dimensions, contraction tends to follow and their granulating surfaces may gradually come together and even cicatrise. The process is seldom, however, so simple. By way either of lymphatic channels or the bronchial system (inspiration, coughing) tubercle bacilli get distributed more widely throughout the lung. This means, as we have just seen, the dissemination gradually or more rapidly of fresh tubercles, either isolated or agglomerated, which in turn pass through the described series of changes. When the distribution of bacilli has been thus effected, the resultant coiadition commonly affects both the bronchi and the lung-tissue proper. In one case this gives rise to tuberculous bronchitis and peribronchitis (the tubercle being disposed in bead-like fashion along the blood-vessels and bronchioles—peri- vascular and peribronchial tubei'culosis). In another case the lung parenchyma—alveolar