MALINGERING 154 of malingering in some neuropathic subjects, especially in connection with epileptic fits. {g) Children sometimes find the motive for simulation in the desire to avoid lessons or to wreak vengeance upon teachers who have punished them. And cases are on record of children malingering very cimningly and ob- stinately, and with a knowledge of symptoms beyond that which we should a •priori credit them with. Generally, however, the phenomena indicate in these young subjects a distinct nervous pathogenesis with marked neurotic taint, which should be considered in our treatment. In addition to the above-named motives, which chiefly affect the humbler classes of the community, we must remember that, just as popes and kings have malingered on occasions, we must not be surprised to find cases arise amongst the generally well-to-do classes. General Considerations.—Since when mal- ingering is met with in practice it is not heralded by any warning, but comes upon us quite unexpectedly, we shoidd acquire the habit of automatically looking for any bizarre and strange symptoms in our routine work; and this attitude need not entail any suspicion in our habit of observation, any more than it would be "suspicious" to habitually, in a febrile or doubtful case, examine the urine for albumin. When any strange symptoms strike us, our mind should naturally conceive the possibility of malingering. And being thus ready to appi-eciate any peculiarities in signs or symptoms, we shall grasp the significance of &mall phenomena in such a way as to often obtain clues, which if lost at the moment may not occur again. For it is a fact that if we once accept a feigned case as genuine, and commence its treatment on corresponding lines, we are very liable to continue progress in the vicious circle which has become established. Thus a man who had something to gain by illness, and who had been treated for some years as the subject of diabetes, and had been certified to that effect by some physicians of repute, was found to be a confirmed and most persistent malingerer. This discovery was made merely through an habitual custom on the observer's part of taking no disease for granted, until elements of error in diagnosis had been removed. The grocer's shop may be the source of the sugar in the urine ! It often happens that some very trifling matter will warn us of the propinquity of malingering, if we have acquired the habit of close observation of details. Thus an ostenta- tious array of medicine bottles, an unnecessary amount of bandages around a part, an excessive limp, an appearance of undue pain upon some simple manipulative examination—any of these signs may suggest the fraud. It will be often found that the natural pain due to a stated injury can, in a malingerer, be transferred by the examiner to a new locality by the mere process of making a pretence of having mistaken the locality of lesion; thus a malingerer who complains of a tender lumbar region will often, at the end of an examination so conducted, have transferred his complaint to the costal region, or even in some cases to the scapular region. We should inquire as to the stated origin of an injury, or the cause of an illness, and gauge very carefully the consistency of the cause and effect. We should make the patient state his own subjective sensations, and we should not ask leading questions. We should compare opposite sides of the body very closely for alterations of outline, and we should habitually measure and so verify observations of size, and apparent anomalies of masses and bony points. We should allow ample time for temporary abnormalities, such as palpitations, sweatings, or dyspnoeas, to subside, where it is possible that they have been voluntarily induced. We must study closely the relation of the stated subjective symptoms to what should be truly present in a given case of disease. The thermo- meter is a valuable ally. We should remember the relation between bodily weight and health. Facial expression, fine tremors (which are visually genuine), and coarse tremblings (which are generally assumed), and the entire present- ment of the patient must be noted closely. In inquiring into doubtful cases of insanity we shall find facial expression, "subject-conscious- ness," and " object - consciousness " in their varying degrees of much instructive moment. The degrees of memory, humour, quickness of reflex or alertness, both physical and mental; the presence or absence of emotional conditions ; the varying degrees of control; absence or presence of explosive temper; formation of head; absence or presence of the stigmata of degeneration, of old head injuries, of pupillary inequalities, listlessness of manner, regard or disregard of personal appearance ;—all these and other objective details should be observed and valued. Certain manifestations cannot be voluntarily sustained for any time without remission in the healthy person. Of these, insomnia, the ravings of a maniacal simulation, and abstinence from food are examples; though malingerers of insanity will sometimes carry abstinence to great lengths. It must be here remarked that a voluntary abandonment of inhibition, with a long-continued simulation of maniacal manifestations, may render the resumption of normal inhibition im- possible, and so induce a really lowered intel- lectual calibre ; and also a protracted intentional simulation of dementia with disregard of personal cleanliness and of all the decencies does, certainly at times, conduce to a real permanent mental inertia. A limb long disused will atrophy,