491 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE crease of the connective tissue, not only between muscular bundles, but also between the in- dividual muscular fibres, so that individual fibres become surrounded by a ring of connective tissue. Some of the fibres are atrophied, others are hypertrophied, often being twice the normal diameter, but all have an almost circular outline on section. In between these muscle fibres fat becomes deposited. The muscle fibres are in some instances extremely atrophied, but even when reduced to a very small diameter they still retain their transverse striation. A few of the fibres may show some fatty degeneration, and some may be vacuolated. The walls of the vessels are thickened. A very striking feature in some of the muscles is the number of muscle- spindles that can be seen in cross-section of a muscle in a given area. In the normal muscle these are not, as a rule, very obvious, but owing to the atrophy which has taken place in the muscle fibres (the muscle-spindles remaining unaffected) the relation between the two has become altered. Pathology.—The fact that no change has been found in the nervous system, and that the change is almost limited to the muscles, is strong presumptive evidence for regarding the disease as primarily of myopathic and not myelopathic origin. The condition of the muscle, however, viz., the hypertropliied fibres, is not in itself incompatible with a nervous origin, for an exactly similar condition is found after a purely spinal lesion, and the suggestion made by Erb that it is possibly a trophoneurosis is one which should not be too summarily dis- missed. That one has not to do with the spinal affection of the cells of the anterior horns is clearly shown by the distribution of the muscular atrophy, since this follows no segmental distri- bution, but one which according to some authors follows rather a developmental order. There is, however, one point about the examination of the muscles themselves which may throw some light on the origin of the disease. It has already been noticed that the muscle-spindles form a very striking feature in transverse sections of the muscle. Now it is known that these structures are connected with nerve fibres of a sensory nature which pass up in the posterior roots, and it is also known that in such condi- tions as infantile paralysis, progressive muscular atrophy, these muscle-spindles do not atrophy. Now if it could be shown conclusively that these muscle-spindles exist unaltered in muscle which otherwise had undergone complete atrophy, then it would seem probable that the disease must depend on some lesion situated at a point where the course of the motor and sensory fibres lay apart, i.e. somewhere above the posterior root ganglion. The question is not, however, easily answered, for it has been shown by Sherrington that the muscle-spindles only very slowly undergo atrophy after their nerve- supply is cut off, and again the number of cases of myopathy in which special attention has been directed to this point is very limited. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis in a typical case is not difficult. In the pseudo-hypertrophic type, the enlargement of the calves and infraspinati and the atrophy of the pectoralis major ; in the facio-scapulo-humeral type the affection of the face, and in the scapulo-humeral type the atrophy of the upper arm and thigh, are features which are sufficiently striking to render the distinction of the types easy. From other forms of progressive muscular atrophy of spinal origin they are usually distinguished by the slower and more gradual onset, by the absence of all fibrillary tremor, by the distribution of the muscles affected, and by the absence of the re- action of degeneration on electrical examination. Treatment.—The patient should be encouraged to keep at exercise as long as possible. When once the patient ceases to walk the disease seems to make more rapid progress. It is im- portant that the patient should perform regular muscular exercises, both active and passive (see " Physical Education and Therapeutics "). Warmth and massage improve the circulation, and probably do some good, and lessen the tendency to muscular contraction. No drug exercises any influence upon the disease. 10. Peroneal Type of Muscular Atrophy. —This form of muscular atrophy has certain points in common with the myopathic form of muscular atrophy just described. But although it is here described under the heading of a mus- cular affection, it is in all probability primarily a spinal rather than a muscular disease. For the present, however, it is most conveniently described in association with the myopathic rather than the myelopathic affections. Etiology.—The disease is an hereditary and familial affection, in some cases being traced through five generations, and affecting numerous brothers and sisters in the same family. Males suffer rather more frequently than females. The influence of the acute specifics on the incidence of the disease would seem to be marked, and this is especially so in the sporadic cases. The age at which the disease usually manifests itself is before ten years, but a good many cases also occur during the second decade of life. Symptoms.—The first symptom of the disease generally manifests itself in the legs. There is a tendency to drop the foot and also to turn it in. This weakness is due to the wasting of the extensor longus hallucis, the extensor com- munis digitorum, and the peronei miiscles. The disease may start in one leg first, but is usually symmetrical ; the small muscles of the legs being successively involved, and finally the muscles of the hand and foot are also affected. The atrophy passes gradually up the leg, so that the distal portion of the muscle atrophies before the proximal, and those muscles