124 MALARIA cage containing water and some fresh fruit, such as banana, etc. They should be sheltered from bright light and kept at a temperature, as far as possible, similar to that which they have been accustomed to. I have noticed that mosquitoes whose larvte had been sent from Durban, South Africa, required a temperature of 80° F., whereas mosquitoes bred from larvse Fig. 8.—Pupa of Anopheles. found in the marshes near the Royal Albert Dock, London, thrived better at a temperature of 65° F. The larvse thrive extremely well on uncooked rice with the addition of a small amount of algse. No film should be allowed to form on the surface of the water as it interferes with the respiration of the larvae and pupae. Fia. 9.—Restini? attitude of Culex. (After Waterlioiise.) So far as is known only one genus of Culicidae —Anopheles (avo<^eXrjs, harmful)—harbours the human malarial parasite, and serves as its de- finitive host. It comes to be a matter of the highest importance, therefore, to be able to recognise this dangerous insect both in its mature and immature forms. Mosquitoes can be most easily destroyed when in the aquatic stage of their existence. It is particularly important, therefore, to know the distinctive features of the Anopheles at this stage. It has chiefly to be distinguished from Culex. The two genera differ in their habits and in their likes and dislikes. Culex, for the most part, is domestic; it frequents houses and outhouses, and likes to breed near dwellings in shallow artificial collections of water, such as may be found in tanks, flower-pots, broken bottles, dis- used kitchen utensils, etc., or in the little muddy pools which may form in the footprints of cattle after rain. Anopheles, on the other hand, is more rural; it breeds, as a rule, in natural and permanent collections of water, preferably in small sluggish streams containing algae and free from fish, or in pools in rice-fields or other irrigated lands. Unlike Culex the Ano- pheles affects the shallow edges of deep water. The eggs are in short ribbons, or in star-shaped or irregular masses (Fig. 6, a), and are deposited on any stick or leaf that happens to be floating on the water. They are loosely joined together, clinging to the twig or leaf for support, and they lie with their long axes parallel with the surface of the water. They are quite unlike the dense so-called boat-shaped masses of most of the genus Culex. Some species of Anopheles may be recognised by the arrangement of their ova; for example, those of A. bifurcatus are laid in star-shaped masses (Fig. 6, b), those of A. daviger in short ribbons (Fig. 6, a). The larvae of Anopheles are much less active than those of Culex; they can usually be seen lying on the surface of the water in a horizontal position feeding, but if disturbed they dart away rapidly, usually by a backward mo- tion of the caudal extremity. As it has already been stated, the larva of Culex wriggle to the surface to breathe, with the tail uppermost, resting there in an almost vertical position. This peculiarity in the position of the larvae of C^dex is explained by the relatively great length of the respiratory syphon which is situated at the caudal ex- tremity, and which receives the terminations of the two respiratory tubes (see Fig. 4). The corresponding respira- tory tubes in Anopheles ter- minate (without any respira- tory syphon) in two small openings on the dorsal surface of the eighth abdominal segment (see Fig. 7). The larvae of Anopheles are somewhat smaller and darker than those of most species of Culex. At the pupal stage Anopheles can be distinguished from Culex; it is narrower, and its respiratory tubes are short and ear-shaped (Fig. 8) ; in Culex they are long and tubular (Fig. 6).