542 NEPHRITIS more commonly the patients come under ob- servation when the disease has already been of long standing. Some of the earliest indications are to be found in the urine, in dropsy, and in anaemia, which is frequently profound. The Urine.—The quantity of urine passed is to a certain extent dependent upon the degree of dropsy, and, although the daily quantity is subject to great variations, it is on the average less than the normal amount. The decrease, however, in the early stages is not very con- siderable, and it is by no means comparable with that which occurs in acute nephritis. Although the amount may be reduced to half the normal quantity or even less, cases of com- plete suppression are comparatively rare, and, as a rule, anuria only occurs shortly before the fatal termination. Usually, as the dropsy increases the amount of urine progressively decreases. In the early stages the specific gravity is slightly lower. If followed from its commencement in an acute attack, as the signs of hsemorrhage decrease the urine presents a cloudy deposit; this is generally considered to be of serious import. This deposit consists largely of casts, which, in the early stages, are mostly of the hyaline variety, though with any subacute inflammatory complication epithelial casts and blood casts may be superadded. At other times the casts present oil globules and evidence of granular degeneration. In chronic nephritis casts are generally present in very large quantity, and are readily detected. In addition, however, numerous leucocytes and, more rarely, red blood corpuscles may be found. Renal epithelium is sometimes present, and it is frequently somewhat opaque or cloudy, in- dicating the existence of degenerative changes. Occasionally, also, there is much granular debris —sometimes floating freely in the urine, more often collected around the casts. In the early stages of chronic nephritis albumin is always present in considerable quantity. It has been stated that in cases of large white kidney there are on an average larger quantities of albumin than with the spotted or contracted kidney; this, however, is certainly not always the case. As the disease progresses the quantity of urine may increase to the normal, or may even be slightly above the normal amount; at the same time the urine becomes pale, the specific gravity falls, and the amount of albumin is diminished. Throughout the disease the quantity of urea is reduced. Within certain limits it is possible to estimate the degree of renal change by the alterations in the urine. As the contraction proceeds the amount of urine becomes greater, while the specific gravity is diminished and the quantity of albumin is also decreased. These changes, therefore, tend to render the urine somewhat similar to that which is passed by patients with a contracted or cirrhotic kidney. A curious result of chronic nephritis is that the kidney loses its normal power of eliminating various drugs—for example, iodide of potassium, salicylic acid, and quinine. The power of trans- forming benzoic acid into hippuric acid is also stated to be impaired. Dropsy.—The dropsy of chronic nephritis usually develops slowly, and in the early stages is not excessive. At the commencement the puffiness of the face, which attracts the patient's attention on first rising, gradually subsides during the day, while the ankles increase in size towards the evening. When the disease is IfuUy established the dropsy may aiTect not only the lower extremities, but the whole of the subcutaneous tissue, and it may also involve the serous cavities. When patients are kept in bed, swelling of the scrotum or of the back may develop. When the oedema has once claimed attention it is generally one of the most difficult symptoms to deal with, since it rarely disappears entirely, and sometimes, with little warning, it increases rapidly; not un- commonly the distension may result in cracking of the skin, which allows the escape of the dropsical eifusion. Sometimes the distension interferes with nutrition and sloughs may form. The effusion within the abdominal cavity is occasionally so considerable as to impede re- spiration and circulation. ffidema of the glottis may develop with great rapidity and may cause death. In milder cases the swelling of the legs or scrotum may show but little variation until the supervention of subacute renal inflammation, owing possibly to exposure or to some irregu- larity of diet. Anceviia.—The aneemia of chronic nephritis is always very noticeable, and it appears probable that some of the most troublesome symptoms are indirectly the result of anaemia—for example, the dyspepsia, the severe headache, and the frequent shortness of breath. Circulatory System.—There is generally dila- tation and hypertrophy of the left ventricle, and some hypertrophic and degenerative change affecting the smaller arteries. The extent of these changes increases as the kidney diminishes in size. Sometimes acute dilatation of the ventricle occurs and is accompanied by dyspnoea and cyanosis. Far more commonly the dilata- tion is accompanied by hypertrophy, which is to a large extent compensatory. The rapidity of the pulse is usually increased, and the tracings are marked by dicrotism. That the blood pressure is not markedly increased in chronic nephritis, as compared with cirrhosis of the kidney, is shown by the rarity of retinal hsemorrhages and cerebral haemorrhages in the former. When these supervene they indicate that the kidney has already undergone con- traction. Muscular System.—As the dropsical effusion