503 MYCOSIS INTESTINALIS Mycosis Intestinal is. Anthrax {In Man, Intestinal Anthrax). Mycosis Leptothricia. See Pharynx, Examination of {Pharyngomycosis). Mycotic.—Related to or caused by micro- organisms or fungi, e.g. mycotic gastritis. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Infective Gastritis). Mycterophonia.—Talking with anasal twang (Gr. ixvkttjp, the nose, <f>u>vri, a sound or tone). MycterOXerOSiS.—Dryness of the nose or nostrils. Mydalein.—-An alkaloid or ptomaine, produced during putrefaction, and acting in some respects like atropine (Gr. fjLvSaXio^, mouldy or putrid). MydatOXine. — A ptomaine produced during the decomposition of flesh, having an action like that of curara, and the chemical formula Cj-HjgNOg. Mydine.—A non-poisonous ptomaine pro- duced during putrefaction. Mydriasis.—Dilatation of the pupil, due either to paralysis of the oculo-motor nerve or to spasm of the sympathetic. See Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis, Tumoiirs of Crura Cerebri); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Injuries, Traumatic Mydriasis); Pharmacology {Atro- pine) ; Retinoscopy {Mydriatics). Mydriatics.—Drugs dilating the pupil, either by paralysing the oculo-motor or third nerve (Atropine, Homatropine, Daturine, Mus- carine, Aconite, etc.), or by stimulating the sympathetic {e.g. Cocaine), or by a central action {e.g. angesthetics). See under the drugs named, and under Eye, Clinical Examination ; Retinoscopy ; etc. Mydrin.—A proprietary preparation act- ing as a mydriatic, said to consist of one part of homatropine and one hundred parts of ephedrin, and used in 10 per cent solution. Mydrol.—A mydriatic powder, used in 5 or 10 per cent solution; chemically it is iodomethylphenylparazolin. Myectopy.—Displacement of a muscle (Gr. /xJs, a mouse or a muscle, and c/ctottos, distant). See Muscles, Diseases of {Congenital Absence, etc.). Myelsemia. — Myelogenic leuksemia or leucocythajmia. See Leucocyth^emia. Myelalg'ia.—Pain in the spinal cord (Gr. ixvfXos, medulla or marrow, and aA.yos, pain). M ye I ast h e n i a.—Spinal ne urasthenia. Myelatelia.—Imperfect formation of the spinal cord. Myelencephalon.—The part of the embryonic brain from which the medulla oblongata is developed. Myelin. — The apparently structureless sheath of a medullated nerve-fibre or the neurilemma or sheath of Schwann; also a sub- stance obtained from nerve-tissue, egg-yolk, etc. Myelinisation or Myelination. —The medullation of nerve-fibres which begins about the fifth month of antenatal life and is not completed till after birth; the functional activity of the nerve-fibres dates from the appearance of the medullary sheath. Myelitis. — Inflammation of the spinal cord. Several varieties are enumerated, such as ascending, bulbar, central, cornual, descending, diffuse, hwmorrhagic, and traumatic. When the grey matter is specially aff'ected, it is called poliomyelitis; when the white matter, leuco- myelitis. See Spinal Cord, Medical {Traumatic and Vascular Lesions); also Alcoholism {Patho- logy) ; Herpes {Herpes Zoster, Symptomatic); Measles {Complications); Nails, Affections OF {Diseases of the Nervous System); Paralysis {Landry's Paralysis, Diagnosis) ; Spbrma- TORRHCEA; SYRINGOMYELIA {Diagnosis); Ten- don Jerks {In Myelitis); Tetany {Morbid Ana.tomy). MyelO-.—In compound words myelo- (Gr. fivek6<;, marrow) means related to or referring to the spinal cord or to marrow. Myeloblast.—A cell from which a myelocyte is believed to be formed. Myelocele.—A variety of spina bifida in which there is defective closure of the spinal canal and of the central canal of the spinal cord as well. See Spina Bifida ( Varieties, Myelocele). MyelOCene.—A preparation of bone- marrow, which has been used in catarrhal deafness, in psoriasis, etc. Myelocystocele.—A form of spina bifida in which the sac is constituted by an expansion of the central canal of the spinal cord ; syringo-myelocele. Myelocyte.—A marrow cell or leucocyte derived from the bone-marrow. It has a single nucleus, its protoplasm contains neutrophile granules, and it is larger than most lympho- cytes ; it may contain (in some diseases) eosinophilic instead of neutrophilic granules, and it is then called an eosinophilic myelocyte. The myelocyte is normally found in the red bone-marrow, but in some pathological states it