246 MEDICINE, FORENSIC struggle of muscle, and this indicates the chief cause of variation in its time of onset and period of duration. In healthy vigorous muscles, such as are found in robust people suddenly killed, rigor mortis comes on slowly and lasts for a considerable time, whereas in states of disease, or exhaustion from illness or fatigue, the molecular life of the tissues soon fails, rigidity appears quickly and lasts a comparatively short time. Other con- ditions which influence rigor mortis are age—in the young and old it develops quickly and disappears soon. Temperature.—Cold hastens its onset and protracts its duration. Mode of death.—Depends upon the state of the muscular system, e.g. whether death has been sudden or has resulted from lingering disease or acute constitutional disturbance, as in infective fevers, etc. In the drowned, rigidity often lasts for long periods ; while in death from certain poisons, e.g. strychnia, a similar observation has been made. The involuntary as well as the voluntary muscles become rigid, and it is of importance to remember this in relation to the post-mortem examination of the heart. Rigidity in this organ is influenced by the same conditions as in the other muscles of the body, and its occurrence not only tends to empty the heart of the blood contained in it at the time of death, but the rigidity and contraction may give rise to the belief that pathological hypertrophy of the left ventricle exists. Cadaveric spasm is a name given to denote a condition not infrequently observed, the cause of which is difficult to explain satisfactorily, viz., that in some forms of death the period of primary flaccidity of the muscles (before the onset of rigidity) appears to have been absent, the body or portions of it passing at once into a state of rigidity. This condition has been observed more especially in cases of injury of the head and neck, and in certain forms of acute suffocation: examples being frequently furnished on the field of battle by soldiers, who after prolonged exertion may be found rigidly fixed in the position in which they died; and also by suicides, who may be found clasping tightly in the hand the knife or pistol with which they have destroyed themselves. This last appearance is usually regarded as strong presumptive evidence of suicide, since the pos- sibility of a hand being made to grasp firmly and retain a weapon after death is most remote. Post-mortem lividity, hypmstasis, post-mortem staining is due to the blood in the body, after the cessation of the heart's action, obeying the action of gravity and sinking in the vessels to the most dependent parts. It is therefore a purely physical phenomenon, which takes place throughout the whole body, and shows itself externally as a livid discoloration of the skin in those regions which are situated lowest, and internally as a congestion and greater succulence of the tissues and organs, or portions of organs, which have occupied the most dependent position after death. Thus a body lying on its back will show lividity on the posterior surface of the neck, trunk, arms, and legs. In those parts which are pressed upon through the weight of the body, the shoulders, buttocks, and calves of the leg, lividity is absent, the skin appearing pale and anaemic amidst the surrounding lividity. Pressure exerted in other ways, as by corsets m women, garters, shirt collars, etc., may give rise to appearances which have been regarded with suspicion, owing to the striking variations in colour and markings thus produced. The more blood a body contains, and the greater its fluidity after death, the more marked is the develop- ment of post-mortem lividity or hypostasis. Thus in cases of sudden death in people of robust health—in all forms of death from asphyxia (in which marked fluidity of the blood is a charac- teristic post-mortem appearance)—lividity is especially well marked. On the other hand, in cases of death from hsemorrhage, and in those conditions associated with anaemia or rapid coagulation of the blood, lividity de- velops slowly and is less distinct, and may be almost entirely absent. The colour of the lividity depends on the colour of the blood, hence it is usually purplish red ; but in death due to CO and HCN poisoning, the blood is of a pink or bright red hue, and the colour of the lividity is correspondingly altered. In death from cold and exposure, and also in cases of drowning, the surface lividity is often light red in colour. In the various organs of the body a similar alteration in the distribution of the blood con- tained by them occurs after death, and gives rise to a deeper colour, and greater succulence and fulness of the vessels in the lower portions as compared with the upper. The appearance thus produced is apt, more especially in the lungs, to give rise to the opinion that we have to deal with a condition due to disease, and care must therefore be exercised to attribute such hypostatic congestion to its proper cause. The blood commences to gravitate immediately after death has occurred ; but the discoloration of the skin naturally takes some time to appear, usually only a few hours, and gradually increases in intensity. If the position of a body is altered within a few hours after death, and so long as the blood is still fluid, patches of lividity which have already appeared may be made to disappear and develop iipon what is now the most dependent surface of the body. After lividity is once well developed, however, change in the position of a body cannot materially alter the distribution of the gravitated blood, and hence valuable evidence as to the position which a body has occupied after death is obtained by noticing the position of the post-mortem lividity. Frequently in cases