256 MEDICINE, FORENSIC The further the weapon is held from the body, the less marked will be the above appear- ances, until at a distance of 1^ to about 2| feet (depending upon the weapon and its charge) merely the wound of entrance of the bullet may be present. In near" ivou7ids produced by modern revolvers the appearances differ from the above inasmuch as the external effects are less marked, there is less blackening from smoke and un- consumed particles of powder, a smaller amount of explosive gases is formed, while the bullet is, as a rule, small and conical. This is due to the charge being in the form of a cartridge, with a minimum charge of powder which may be smoke- less. The entrance wound is frequently not round, but merely a linear slit in the skin, often difficult to detect when a weapon of small bore has been used. The exit wound may be recognised in cases of near discharge by its presenting none of the effects of the explosion, while it is, as a rule, smaller, and the edges are everted. When the head is the object fired at, there may be extensive injury of the bones of the skull produced, the fractures being, as a rule, out of all proportion to the size of the bullet. This is due to several causes, but chiefly to the flattening out of the lead after contact with the bone, and to the expansive force of the gases of the explosion, which pass into the cranial cavity along with the bullet. It is very characteristic of the wound of entrance to find a bevelling of the edge of the bone internally, due to a more extensive fracture of the inner table than of the outer; while at the exit wound the opposite appearance may be noted, the external table being fractured to a greater extent than the inner. At the wound of entrance, scrapings of lead will also frequently be found on the edges of the fractured bone. There may be no exit wound; in such cases the bullet will be found, as a rule, lying in the brain substance, or loose at the base of the skull; it may, however, merely exist as shapeless pieces of lead. "Far" wounds, or those produced by dis- charge at a greater distance than three feet, i.e. wounds which cannot under ordinary circum- stances be produced by a suicide, show merely the entrance wound in the skin, which in size will correspond closely to that of the bullet. If only soft tissues are perforated, the exit wound will be very similar, except that there will be, respectively, some inversion and eversion of the edges. If bone is struck, then the bullet is flattened, and splinters may be carried along with it, thus causing the exit wound to be larger than that of entrance, and the eversion of the edges to be better marked. In wounds from shot guns the appearances will vary according to the distance at which the piece is discharged : if quite close at hand, then the shot enter the body practically in one mass and produce a single wound of entrance with great destruction of internal structures; if, however, the piece is discharged at some distance, then the individual shot wounds are discrete. The area of distribution of the shot at different distances depends upon the gun, the charge, and kind of powder and shot used ; and hence to determine the distance of discharge in any case, experiments must be made with the particular gun under similar conditions of shot and powder. The determination of the question of accident, suicide, or homicide will depend largely upon special circvimstances in each case, but evidence of importance may be derived from certain general considerations. Thus self-inflicted acci- deiital wounds may be practically in any situa- tion, as in the back or buttocks as a result of carelessness in passing through hedges with a loaded weapon at full cock ; and in such a case the appearance presented will be that of a " near " wound. The general circumstances will usually enable us to determine the case to be one of accident. Suicidal Wounds must have the characters of " near " Wounds.—In cases of suicide the weapon will generally be found close to the body, or even grasped in the hand—the latter a sign in itself strongly presumptive of suicide. The hand which fired the weapon is often blackened with smoke between the thumb and forefinger, rarely, however, when the modern revolver is used; and lastly, the position and direction of the wound must be such as is consistent with suicide. It is well recognised that, except in rare instances, the suicide chooses one of three positions on the body : the mouth, the right temple (if right-handed), and lastly, the region of the heart. Of course a homicidal wound may be in any of these positions—the above situa- tions merely add to the presumption of suicide when taken along with other evidence. The determination of the direction of a wound is of the utmost importance: some directions, even when the entrance wound is situated in an easily accessible position on the body, would be inconsistent with self-infliction, or, at any rate, render it highly improbable; hence, after determining the wound of entrance and of exit in any case, the direction of discharge should be got by continuing a line connecting these two points. The possibility of deflection of the bullet must, however, be kept in view. Homicidal ivounds may be situated anywhere on the body, and their position may contra- indicate self-infliction—thus, for example, wounds in the back; but, as already mentioned, such situations are not impossible in cases of acci- dent or even in suicide under exceptional cir- cumstances. As a rule a homicidal wound has not the character of a " near " wound, i.e. it is inflicted from some distance beyond two to three