539 NEPHRITIS inflammation of the kidney. As a rule, renal affections of prolonged course are not associated with lumbar pain, and to a certain extent this fact is to be explained by the comparative absence of nerves of common sensation in con- nection with the kidney. There is, it is true, a free supply of sensory nerves to the capsule and the pelvis of the kidney, but these are only likely to be influenced by affections causing sudden distension of the kidney; with inflam- matory diseases of the kidney, pain or discomfort, if present, is generally reflected to some other site. Dropsy.—When acute nephritis is due to cold, dropsy is one of the commonest and earliest indications, and it is frequently the first which attracts attention. In mild cases it may com- mence about the legs and the cheeks; the latter may be found puffy on first rising. The oedema usually commences in the lower eyelids, and the conjunctivae are affected at the same time, hence the eyes appear brighter than usual. The oedema may spread rapidly to the trunk and the extremities; even in mild cases the feet may be swollen towards evening when the oedema has, to a great extent, disappeared from the face. When the dropsy is only slight the general appearance is much like that of chlorosis. It is more common, however, to find the whole trunk oedematous, the oedema generally being most marked in dependent parts. Considerable swelling is often found at the lower part of the back, constituting the well-known lumbar pad. The genitals, especially the prepuce, may be affected, and the oedema may be so excessive as to interfere with micturition. As the subcutaneous tissue becomes infil- trated the serous sacs may be involved. The abdominal cavity may contain fluid, and occa- sionally an increase of serum may be detected in the pleura and in the pericardium. Still more dangerous, but fortunately more rare, is oedema of the glottis, which develops with extreme rapidity, and may lead to asphyxia. Digestive System.—Interference with digestion is frequent. The appetite is bad, especially during the pyrexia; the tongue is furred, and there is usually constipation, though later this may be replaced by diarrhoea independently of treatment. This diarrhoea has been attributed to a natural effort to eliminate excretory matters. During the early stages nausea and vomiting are also frequent; they may possibly be reflex symptoms, but at a later stage, in all probability, the vomiting is of ursemic origin, and when un- controllable it presents a serious complication. Circulatory System.—It has generally been held that the circulatory system is not materi- ally affected in the early stages of acute nephritis, and the changes connected with the heart and smaller arteries are commonly con- sidered to occur with chronic renal affections, or to develop with the transition from the acute to the chronic stage. Dr. Dickinson, however, has suggested that from the beginning of acute kidney trouble there is some alteration of the wall of the capillaries, and he considers that this alteration, if permanent, contributes largely to the subsequent hypertrophy of the arterioles and of the left ventricle. Sometimes acute enlargement of the left ventricle may occur, but this is usually a transient feature. Anaemia is an early and characteristic symp- tom ; it may result from the loss of albumin or from great hajmaturia. When the pallor is very rapidly developed in connection with dropsy, it is in all probability due rather to the infiltration of the tissues with serum than to blood changes. In advanced cases of acute nephritis the red corpuscles of the blood are always reduced in number; the albumin is diminished, and the serum contains a large proportion of water; in addition, it is common to find in the blood either urea, uric acid, or both, and perhaps other urinary derivatives. Pericarditis may occur, and when the effusion is purulent in character the disease nearly always terminates fatally. In acute nephritis it is very rare to meet with epistaxis or to find haemorrhages in the retina. Respiratory System.—Alterations in the re- spiratory system only occur as complications. Pleurisy, bronchitis, and pneumonia may de- velop in severe cases, and may hasten a fatal termination; the pleurisy is especially danger- ous since it is frequently purulent. It is not vmcommon, however, for mild cases of acute nephritis to be associated with slight pulmonary engorgement; the degree of engorgement mostly varies inversely with the amount of fluid in the pleural cavity. Slight congestion of the lungs is not necessarily a serious complication. Nervous System.—The effects upon the nervous system may develop with considerable rapidity. In the early stages headache is commonly present; it may merely be a dull sense of weight, or it may be very intense. When the urine is very much reduced ursemic convulsions may suddenly appear, and in some cases they are of a hemiplegic type. During the convul- sions the temperature may rise, but afterwards it is mostly subnormal. The convulsion is often succeeded by coma. Sometimes several convul- sions occur at short intervals, the patient re- maining comatose in the intervals; and the depth of the coma may increase after each attack of convulsions. Occasionally after con- vulsions there may be partial or complete blindness. Uraemic amaurosis is mostly a transient symptom, and in its short duration differs from the amaurosis of chronic forms of kidney disease. The uraemic convulsions are the expression of the retention of toxic materials, and unless the case terminates early in a con- vulsion the nervous symptoms usually speedily pass away.