MICRO-ORGANISMS 396 acid fermentation) or alcohol (maximum 15 per cent), phenol, and other products present in the nutrient solution. A considerable number of bacteria produce ptomains. Ptomains are crystallisable nitrogen —containing bases which are very similar to vegetable alkaloids. Besides nitrogen they con- tain carbon, hydrogen, and sometimes oxygen. Some ptomains are toxic, others not. Ptomains were first isolated by Nencki in 1876 from various organic substances undergoing putre- faction, as also from pure cultures of pathogenic bacteria. Toxic ptomains were separated from cultures of B. typhi, Spirillum cholerae asiaticee, B. crassus sputigenus, etc., by Brieger. Nencki and Marme were unable to isolate a ptomain from cultures of B. anthracis. Until the dis- covery of the vastly more potent toxalbumins of certain pathogenic bacteria more importance was attached to the ptomains. It is possible that ptomains exert some effect in cholera and typhoid fever. Bacteria which produce poisonous ptomains are called toxicogenic, but are not necessarily of themselves pathogenic. Ptomains play an important part in ice-cream, cheese, meat, sausage, fish, and canned food poison- ing. Food containing large quantities of toxic ptomains has often been eaten without suspicion. From the point of view of pathogenesis the greatest importance is to be attached to the specific bacterial toxins which are formed within the bacterial cell. These are imstable com- pounds which are injured by heat, light, and various chemical agents. Their chemical com- position is highly complex, and remains to be determined. It has been proved that they are not ptomains, basic substances, nor proteins. The toxins are specific products of the physio- logical activity of certain bacteria. In cultures of B. diphtheria; and B. tetani they are highly diffusible. The toxicity is very great in both of these ; 0'002 c.cm. of a filtered diphtheria culture, or even less, may be fatal to a guinea- pig, whilst 0-000,000,05 gram, of purified tetanus toxin kills a mouse of 15 gram, weight, the estimated fatal dose for a man of average weight being of a grain. Toxins have been isolated from B. diphtherise, B. typhi abdo- minalis, B. tetani. Spirillum cholerse asiaticse, pneumococcus, B. tuberculosis, B. mallei, and B. pestis, but not from B. anthracis. Certain bacteria produce a characteristic pig- ment, such forms being termed chromogenic. The pigment may be red, violet, yellow, green, etc., and its character often serves for the differentiation of species. A number of bacteria are photogenic, i.e. phosphorescent, and may cause fish, meat, or sausage to become luminous. The greater number of phosphorescent bacteria occur in sea-water. A considerable amount of heat may at times be produced as the result of bacterial activity. When complex bodies are broken up during the fermentation process induced by bacteria, yeasts, or moulds, heat is liberated. Fermenta- tion occurring in damp hay, grain, and cotton may lead to spontaneous combustion. The rise of temperature in manure-heaps is familiar to all. In alcoholic fermentation due to yeast, as also in the fermentation of hops, tobacco, potatoes, and turnips which have been stacked in a damp state, a rise of temperature of 50°-60° has been observed. A temperature of 70° C. may be reached in the fermentation of sauerkraut. Confining ourselves to those micro-organisms which produce disease in the animal and vege- table kingdom, it may be stated that all of the above described groups comprise organisms which exert a direct pathogenic action. Limit- ing ourselves to man, we find Protozoa causing tertian, quartan, and sestivo-autumnal malaria, and also amoebic dysentery. Moulds cause herpes, thrush, and favus, and fatal pneumonia has been caused by Aspergillus. A number of yeast-like organisms are pathogenic. Colpe (1894) isolated a pathogenic form from a case of chronic cervical endometritis; Busse (1895) isolated another form from a case which he describes by the name of " Saccharomycosis hominis," the disease having the form of chronic pyaemia, and the germ isolated in culture pro- ducing fatal disease in white mice. Sanfelice has found a species, S. neoformans, which is pathogenic for dogs, mice, and the chicken, another species (S. litogenes) which is patho- genic for cattle, guinea-pigs, and white mice. Gilchrist and Stokes describe a species (Blasto- mycetes dermatitidis, 1898) which was the cause of a dermatitis in man, the cultivated organism proving pathogenic for the horse, dog, sheep, and guinea-pig. Out of 50 Blastomycetes examined for their pathogenicity by Rabino- witsch (1896 ; some of these, no doubt, belong to the genus Oidium), 7 species proved to be pathogenic to experimental animals. The so-called "cancer bodies," or cell-inclu- sions observed in cancer, have been claimed by some investigators to represent Blastomycetes (Sanfelice, Plimmer), whilst others have claimed them to be Protozoa. Neither Sanfelice nor Plimmer have established the histological identity between their experimental tumours (produced by inoculation with Blastomycetes), and sarcoma or cancer. The only two observa- tions by Sanfelice in which dogs acquired cancer-like tumours, gave negative cultui-al results, and showed cell-inclusions the mor- phology of which was very different to that of the organisms introduced. The choice of dogs for these experiments does not seem to be entirely fortimate, when we remember the facts stated by Frohner regarding the frequency of cancer in dogs studied by him in Berlin, where 40 per cent of the dogs coming to operation proved to be cancerous. It remains still to