LUNACY 5 commit crime and yet know right from wrong even to the particular crime charged, and may possess the power to choose between right and wrong as usually understood. It has been the case that until very recently the pathology of lunacy has been a terra incognita. But there is another pathology also of recent birth, that which may fitly be spoken of as social pathology, which seeks to investigate all classes of in- dividuals who from mental, moral, or physical defects are dependent upon or injurious to society. And as there can be no specific, just as there can be no acts of the legislature to meet all that confronts society, not even the Utopian one of regulating marriages—a remedy which, while not accomplishing any good, would lead to greater social evils—there remains for society the general remedy of implanting and developing in individuals, the earlier the better, a knowledge of the laws pertaining to health and the dire results of contravening these, as well as such mental, moral, and physical habits as will serve to lessen and, if not too much to hope for in man's unregenerate state, to prevent delinquency, dependency, and lunacy. Statistics.—The statistics submitted refer to the lunacy prevalent among 50,000,000 of the Anglo-Saxon race. In regard to Great Britain it will be observed that while the census enumei-ation of 1891 revealed the existence of 134,033 lunatics, the official returns of the lunacy departments for the same year spoke of 115,641, or 18,392 less. In 1899 the depart- ments were aware of 140,789, showing that in eight years not only has this difference been wiped out, but 6756 more have found their way to the official registers. These figures make it abundantly clear that lunacy is, at all events, not diminishing as with the advances in psy- chiatry one might expect. The public accept with thankfulness any announcement to the effect that the growth of lunacy just keeps pace with the growth of population, and with some- thing akin to alarm when it is made aware that the growth exceeds that of population. Con- sidering how much of modern insanity of the vesanique type is due to auto-infection and auto- intoxication, the attitude of resting content if lunacy and population advance pari jmssu does not betoken hopeful views of what is possible in the matter of prevention. Glancing at the statistics for the years 1889 and 1899, it would appear that lunacy in the British Isles has in- creased by 15-2 per cent in ten years or r5 per cent per annum after full allowance is made for the increment justified by the growth of popula- tion. But the remarkable feature about this increase is the part Ireland takes in it, being credited with no less than 36 per cent. Apart from the economic question, of itself the most significant factor in any estimate of a nation's lunacy, which will always bulk more largely in Ireland's productivity calculations than those of England and Scotland, the increase is of that phenomenal kind witnessed and quite understood in England and Scotland, in the sixties and seventies, and is very probably due to similar causes, viz., better registration, the provision of improved and extended asylum accommodation, and the inducements of the grant-in-aid which year by year removes hundreds of imbeciles and chronic and harmless dements from the ordinary pauper list to the more comfortable one of lunacy. It should be explained that in Great Britain the 18,392 who figure in the census returns of 1891, and not in the official returns for the year, have been for some time looked upon as a reserve from which a very large number of fresh or occurring cases of insanity are transferred every year to the official registers, with the result that the balance between the census and the official returns is lessening so perceptibly each decennium that before very long the difference will simply represent the existence of lunatics in the 10 per cent of the population not only able but willing to maintain their insane en famille; and there are good grounds for thinking that the number of such for social reasons, if for no other, are getting fewer. When such cases are sent to asylums or to private dwellings in which they are kept for profit, they come on the official register. This lessening reserve will always contain insane of the kind who do not require asylum treatment, and who belong to families whose means preclude them from claiming public relief while residing at home. For the year perhaps a most valuable statistical return for the country as a whole is the census one, for it may be assumed, except in large burghs and cities, that the enumerators have knowledge of imbeciles and lunatics possessed by no other. The census return for England in 1891 shows an advance of 15'2 per cent over 1881 ; the returns of the Commis- sioners in Lunacy between the same years, of 18-7—the increment of population being 11'6 per cent. The plus difference of '3 per cent between the two census periods is a trivial one, and shows that there has been no appreciable increase between the two periods, and perhaps may be explained by more accurate methods of enumeration in the latter census. In Scotland there has been no increase except that jus- tified by population, and in the present year (1900) the reserve of 1891, viz., 2867, has disappeared, and it is safe to hazard the opinion that the census return about to be taken will reveal a much smaller difference between itself and the official annual return of 1901 than the census of 1891 did with the official return of that year. With regard to the Colonies, and for that matter the United States, in which the insane, except private patients, are under the direct care of the State, what strikes one is not only the high ratios reported, but augmentations