MALARIA 141 5ils and prickly heat in the Tropics often implicate and add to the discomfort of alaria. The subject of black water fever is so fully iscribed in a special article in vol. i., and its lation to malaria so thoroughly discussed, lat I have not alluded to the disease in this ■tide. Diagnosis of Malaria It is not so long ago that the diagnosis of alaria was very unsatisfactory; it was almost ifficient for a patient in a malarious country i suffer from pyrexia with rigors in order to ! treated as a case of malaria. We need only fer to the mistakes that have been made in idia in the past with regard to typhoid fever, I show that diagnosis by clinical signs and lerapeutic agents is not to be entirely relied oon. To-day things are different; by means examination of the blood the presence of alaria may be ascertained with certainty, and le importance of employing this means of agnosis cannot be too strongly emphasised. In the benign fevers, which exhibit the laracteristic tertian or quartan periodicity, inical diagnosis is easy, and even when they isume a quotidian type, the previous history, ith the clinical signs and symptoms, namely, ilarged spleen, peculiar tint of skin, the early ifemia, the regularly recurring rigor (often in le forenoon), the bien etre of the intermission, lould alone suffice to make a correct diagnosis jssible. The most important element, how- ler, in the diagnosis of malaria will always 3 the recognition by the microscope of the irasites or the pigmented leucocytes. In lildren often the principal reliance must be laced on the examination of the blood. Nowadays quinine is practically never required 5 a diagnostic agent, but in the absence of a licroscope it is often a useful aid. A single 3se will often disclose the true nature of a iver; for example, by converting a double jrtian infection into a single tertian (see emperature Chart IV.). Rapid diagnosis in the case of the benign ivers is not usually imperative, but in the lalignant fevers it may be a matter of life or sath. Unfortunately, it is in the malignant svers that mistakes most frequently occur; le indefinite onset, the poorly marked rigor, le remittent pyrexia, and the pernicious attacks II tend to simulate other diseases and to render iagnosis extremely difficult. The diseases which are most likely to be jnfounded with uncomplicated intermittent lalarial fever are liver abscess, tuberculosis, ifluenza, septic processes, ulcerative endo- irditis, and pyaemia; syphilitic fever, the assage of gall-stones, pyelitis, catheter fever, lephantoid and leprous fever. Typhoid fever, allow fever, cerebro-spinal fever, and Malta fever are more likely to be mistaken for malignant malarial infections. Liver abscess is perhaps the most frequent source of error. Such cases are not infrequently treated with quinine on the supposition that they are malarial. The fact that the case does not improve should alone be sufficient to induce the practitioner to revise the diagnosis, for it is very seldom that a case of malaria fails to respond to quinine. In liver abscess there is nearly always enlai'gement of the liver, but not necessarily of the spleen, as is invariably the case in malaria of some standing. Localised tenderness of liver can generally be made out, with perhaps pain shooting up to the right shoulder. Moreover, there is often a history of gradual deterioration of health, and almost invariably of dysentery, and microscopic ex- amination of the blood shows a leucocytosis. An abscess of the left lobe of the liver may cause difficulty in diagnosis, as in certain instances the attendant hepatic swelling simulates an enlarged spleen; but the pain and the hectic and other symptoms will be different from that of malaria, and there will be no malarial parasites in the blood. Non- suppurative hepatitis and gummatous affections of the liver, which give rise to symptoms like those of hepatic abscess, are also possible sources of error. Tubercle, as already remarked, is another source of error. The practitioner must rely upon a careful physical examination of the patient, as well as of the blood and sputum. (See also "Liver," vol. v. p. 502.) Uncomplicated malarial infections may closely simulate influenza. There are the same aching pains of limbs, back, and eyes, with headache, vomiting, and neuralgia. But rigors are un- common in influenza, early anaemia is absent, the spleen is not enlarged, and the disease usually occurs in epidemics. Septic fevers, pyaemia, and ulcerative endo- carditis all give rise to an intermittent fever, profuse sweating, rigors, and often enlargement of the spleen. Diagnosis of these conditions must be arrived at upon general grounds. Malaria can be excluded by examination of the blood and by noting the want of regularity in the occurrence of the rigors. Although gall- stones and the passage of catheters may give rise to rigors like those of malaria, on inquiry the true cause can be usually arrived at. Leprosy is associated with attacks of pyrexia, lasting from two to three days, and sometimes accompanied by profuse sweating. There can be little doubt that the early stages of many cases of leprosy are regarded as malarial and treated with quinine. Elephantoid fever, with or without varicose groin glands, elephantiasis, lymph-scrotum, or other local affection of filarial origin, is very liable to be mistaken for malaria. The knowledge that these diseases give rise to attacks of fever