MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDEES 353 They next become hollowed out into two parallel tubes. Later still these tubes fuse in their posterior and middle thirds to form a single tube (the vagina and uterus), whilst the anterior thirds remain separate and form the Fallopian tubes. The ostium vaginae (and hymeneal orifice) is formed by an invagination from the skin opening into the lower end of the fused MUllerian ducts. Should there be any arrest in the process of hollowing out the solid columns of cells into the ducts a horizontal septum is formed, completely closing the vaginal or uterine canal, and causing atresia. As soon as the age of puberty arrives, the menstrual blood begins to collect above the point of obstruction and the utero-vaginal canal becomes a retention cyst. On the other hand, should there be any interference with the process of fusion of the ducts of Miiller, a degree of doubling of the uterus (or vagina) is produced. The two con- ditions, viz., retention of the menses and doubling of the uterus, frequently coexist. In order to illustrate the sequence of events let us suppose that in the lower third of the vagina there is a congenital atresia. At puberty, and at each period after, the uterus pours out some three or four ounces of blood. This collects in the vagina above the atresia and distends it into a large cystic swelling, which fills the pelvis and rises up into the abdomen as an oval tumour. The uterus is lifted up by this mass, and at first is not dis- tended, as its walls are much thicker and more resistant than those of the lax, elastic vagina. Later, as the pressure increases, the uterus also becomes distended, and may form a mass as big as the womb six months pregnant. Still later the fluid distends the Fallopian tubes, until they become huge sausage-shaped masses on either side of the fundus. Lastly, the retained menstrual secretion may burst the Fallopian tubes, pour into the peritoneal cavity, and give rise, if aseptic, to an intraperitoneal heemato- cele; if septic, to an acute peritonitis. When the retention cyst is formed by the vagina it is called a " hfematocolpos " if the fluid be blood, and a "pyocolpos" if it be purulent. Similarly, when formed by the uterus it is termed a hsematometra or pyometra. When the Fallopian tubes are distended with blood the condition is termed hsematosalpinx; when with pus, pyosalpinx. In many cases there is more or less doubling of the genital canal. The uterus may be bi- cornuous, septate, or double. The vagina also may be divided by a mesial septum into two distinct tubes. Occasionally in these cases the atresia affects one side only, there being men- strual retention on that side, whilst on the other the menses are discharged normally. The retained blood is characteristic in appear- ance. It is a thick, dark chocolate-brown, treacly fluid, very viscid from the presence of VOL. VI mucus. Under the microscope it is seen to consist of broken-down blood corpuscles, altered blood pigment, and epithelial cells. Symptoms and Signs of Congenital Atresia tvith Retention.—Until the age of puberty there are no symptoms. Then it is noticed that though the girl each month has pelvic pains there is no external flow of blood. With each monthly epoch the pain increases and becomes colicky in character. On examination there is found rising out of the pelvis, and filling part of the lower abdomen, a tense oval swelling, elastic or fluctuating, and feeling not unlike the preg- nant uterus. It contracts intermittently, and on auscultation a bruit may be heard over the sides of the mass. If the Fallopian tubes be aff"ected they may be felt as two rounded or sausage-shaped masses on either side of the larger central tumour. The vulva may be normal, or through it the bulging imperforate hymen may be found. If the atresia be in the vagina the bladder and rectum may be felt in contact below, whilst on rectal examination the lower pole of the distended vagina or uterus may be felt. If the fluid be purulent, then, in addition, there will be septic symptoms, rigors, high temperature, quick pulse, emaciation, and local tenderness. In those cases of double uterus, where one-half is patent and the other half occluded and distended with blood, the symptoms are somewhat different. Menstrua- tion is present, but at each month there is severe colicky pain on the occluded side. On examina- tion, to one side of the uterus (and sometimes also of the vagina) a lateral cystic swelling may be found. Treatment.—Whenever possible an attempt should be made to reach the collection per vaginam, and by this route to evacuate the retained secretion. After careful disinfection of the vulva and vaginal cul-de-sac, a horizontal incision should be made in the roof of the cul- de-sac, or through the unperforate hymen, and deepened by dissecting up between the bladder and rectum if they be in contact. When the wall of the retention cyst (vagina or uterus) is reached it should be opened transversely and, if possible, drawn down and sutured to the mucous membrane of the cul-de-sac. The viscid retained secretion should be washed away by prolonged irrigation with some mild antiseptic (such as boracic solution) and the cavity lightly packed with iodoform gauze. If the Fallopian tubes be not distended nothing further is required; but should they be felt as big, sausage-shaped masses on either side of the uterus, the abdomen should be opened, and the tubes emptied of their con- tents or removed altogether. In a certain number of cases the surgeon will fail to reach the retention cyst from below. Here he must open the abdomen and extirpate the distended organs. In cases where there is doubling of the vagina, or a septate condition of