MALARIA 121 ever, than the ordinary amcebulse, and a clear unstained nucleus cannot be demonstrated in them. The more advanced forms can be more readily recognised by the character and dis- position of their pigment, by the smaller amount of chromatin matter, and by the somewhat different staining affinities of the protoplasm. These bodies gradually assume a crescentic shape, and come to fill, almost entirely, the red cell in which they are developed. In peripheral blood these immature forms of the crescent have not, up to the present, been recognised with certainty; here only the adult forms are found. In freshly-drawn blood they are beautifully shaped semilunes, about 8 /x or 9 in length, possessing a well-defined outline, and consisting of colourless hyaline protoplasm, in the centre of which is situated the characteristic pigment. This is black, and in short needle-shaped rods, and in many instances is arranged as a ring around the nucleus. The red cell can usually be seen surrounding the crescent. Its proto- plasm has become almost completely decolorised, and, for the most part, lies in the concavity of the crescent like the arc of a bow. On the convexity of the crescent it is found as a thin, almost invisible layer. Properly stained speci- mens demonstrate these points very clearly. The crescent bodies, after they have been re- moved from the human body, undergo remark- able changes, which can be readily watched in an ordinary fresh blood preparation. The crescent first begins to lose its elegant shape, becoming thicker, more squat, then kidney shaped, and then oval, and finally spherical (see coloured Plate II., Figs. 29, 30, 31). It will be observed that, just as was the case with the gametes of the benign malarial parasites, some of the spheres flagellate and some do not, the former being the micro-gametocytes and the latter the macro-gametocytes. Bastianelli and Bignami have succeeded in distinguishing the male from the female crescents. On staining by the E-omanowsky method the protoplasm of the male crescent is stained a pale blue, and the nucleus is seen to contain four or five little chromosomes which stain an intense carmine colour. The protoplasm of the female crescent stains a deeper blue, and the nucleus contains only one, occasionally two, masses of chromatin. I have been able to confirm these observations. This method of staining also shows very clearly the structure of the flagella. They each consist of a tube of protoplasm, containing in their centre a delicate filament of chromatin. The protoplasm stains blue, the chromatin a beautiful lilac carmine. The chromosomes, which in the crescent were centrally placed. before flagellation occurs make their way to the periphery of the sphere ; a process of protoplasm is then protruded, and into this the chromatin matter passes. The Mosquito.—As it is only recently that the mosquito has become an object of special interest to the medical practitioner, it will be well to give a brief account of its life-history. Fig. 3.—Ova of Culex in characteristic boat-shaped mass. anatomy, and habits before proceeding to com- plete the description of the sexual or mosquito phase of the malarial parasite. Mosquitoes, or gnats, are found practically everywhere. They belong to the natural order diptera, family Culicidse. There are twelve genera in this family, but, so far as we know at present, only two are of importance from a medical point of view, namely, the genus Culex and the genus Ano- pheles. Only the imago, or mature insect, is aerial. In the outer stages of its existence, name- ly, as ovum, larva, and pupa, the mos- quito is aquatic in habits. The ova look like little shiny black specks, and under a lens are seen to be of an elongated oval shape, with one end of the oval more pointed than the other. When grouped together they resemble little specks of soot float- ing on the surface of the water. Most species of Culex lay their ova in boat-shaped masses (Fig. 3).i In Anopheles, on the other hand, there is no such definite grouping. The larvcE hatch out on the first or second day by escaping through the lower and thicker end of the ovum. They are active little bodies, with a disproportionately large head and thorax. ' Culex tmniatus, a somewhat widely distributed species, is a striking exception, the eggs being separate and horizontal. Fig. 4.—Larva of Culex.