485 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE Symptoms.—Three stages are described in this disease : first, a stage of intestinal irritation commencing soon after the taking of the in- fected meat; second, a stage of severe mus- cular pain with pyrexia; and, third, a stage of subsidence during which the trichina becomes encysted in the muscle. Cases, however, vary in severity according to the extent of the infection. During the first stage there is vomiting, diarrhoea, furred tongue, abdominal pain, and cold extremities. These symptoms may manifest themselves within a few hours after taking the diseased meat. The severity of these symptoms is no guide to the futiire severity of the case, for, as has been pointed out, the excessive diarrhoea and vomiting tend to the removal of the trichina before their young have had time to penetrate the walls of the intestine. The acute symptoms now pass off, but diarrhoea may continue, and about the eighth day of the illness pufl&ness of the face and eyelids occurs; this lasts a few days. About the ninth or tenth day after infection pains are complained of in the muscles; these gradually increase in severity. The tempera- ture is raised usually between 102° and 103° F. The muscles become swollen, hard, and brawny, are ver}^ tender on palpation, and active or passive movement gives rise to severe pain. Almost any muscle of the body is liable to be affected, but the implication of the diaphragm, intercostals, and laryngeal muscles impeding respiration, and the implication of the masseter, tongue, and pharyngeal muscles affecting deglu- tition, very seriously interfere with the per- formance of vital functions. The patient lies in bed with the legs flexed, ffidema of the trunk and limbs occurs about the fourth or fifth week, and attacks of profuse perspiration also take place. Wasting may now occur, and the patient passes into a typhoid state with great prostration, stupor, and delirium. Pul- monary complications are liable to occur. The duration of these severe symptoms is about five to six weeks, after which convalescence sets in, and in a few weeks the patient is well again. Some cases are, however, much more protracted. Death usually occurs during the fourth or fifth week, and is immediately due to the involve- ment of the respiratory muscles and secondary pneumonia. Diagnosis.—Trichiniasis is most likely to be mistaken for typhoid fever; the presence of muscular swelling and tenderness, the oedema of the face and limbs, the presence of trichina in the stools and the absence of enlargement of the spleen, and a negative Widal reaction, would, together with a consideration of the onset, be sufficient to arrive at a correct diag- nosis. The disease has also to be distinguished from beriberi by the more marked involvement of the nervous system in that disease, viz., the absent knee-jerk and the aneesthesia. From acute polymyositis the diagnosis is by no means so easy : the swelling of the muscles is an earlier manifestation in polymyositis, and there is more affection of the skin. The presence of trichina in the motions would make the diagnosis certain. Treatment.—When the trichina has invaded the muscle no drug has the power of destroy- ing it. The removal of the parasite from the intestines should be carried out by purga- tives, and the constitutional symptoms must be treated in the usual manner. B. Secondary Affection of the Muscles. — Muscles may become secondarily affected from structures in their immediate neighbourhood, either from a suppurative inflammation in the skin, in the subcutaneous tissue, in the joints, in bones, or glands, the infection spreading directly from the part involved to the muscle. On the other hand, a suppurative myositis may arise from infection through the blood-stream ; such a condition is liable to occur in pyaemia, in ulcerative endocarditis, puerperal fever, glanders, actinomycosis, and from an infected wound or boil. Suppuration also occurs sometimes after the acute specific fevers, but when this is the case it can be shown that the abscesses so formed contain streptococci, staphylococci, and other organisms, and thei'efore are true infective pro- cesses, and not directly due to the original fever. The symptoms which attend such infective myositis are those of the general diseases, the symptoms connected with muscular condition being little in evidence. Pathology.—-The appearance of the muscle varies with the intensity and duration of the disease. The muscle has usually a dirty red colour, and on pressure a greyish-red fluid exudes; small focci of suppuration are present in the muscle. On microscopical examination of the muscle the transverse striation is absent, and there are numerous small round cells and extravasated blood between the muscle fibres, and in suitably stained specimens streptococci can be seen. The occurrence of actual abscesses in the muscle would seem to depend on the length of time that the disease has existed, for in some cases in which the general infection has been very acute no abscesses have been found, whereas in long-standing cases numerous ab- scesses occur. Should recovery take place, the condition of the muscle would not differ from that of a fibrous myositis from any other cause. Gonorrhoeal Myositis.—Another form of myo- sitis secondary to infection must have separate and rather special mention, as it does not fall into the line with other forms of infective myositis. This disease generally accompanies gonorrhoeal rheumatism, and commonly affects muscles in the immediate neighbourhood of the affected joint. The affection is generally local and limited to one muscle, the gastrocnemius, deltoid, or biceps being most commonly affected. The muscle is hard and swollen, tender on