517 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE the finger-nails, as a result, apparently, of an intercurrent illness. The nails may be shed or altered in their nutrition in acute generalised alopecia (alopecia totalis vel universalis neurotica). Stone has described annual shedding of the skin and nails in a man of fifty. This had occurred regularly for several years. Nail-changes have been noted in a number of other skin diseases, such as ptemphigus, dermatitis herpetiformis, sclerodactylia (sclero- derma), pityriasis rubra pilaris, and so forth. For further particulars the reader is referred to these conditions in other parts of the E71- cyclopedia. One point to remember is that different causes may lead to tlie same kind of nail-change, and various appearances in the nails may depend on one and the same disease. The continuity of the tissues should be borne in mind : the nails are part and parcel of the general integument. {Pellagra. See section xv.) VI. Diseases of the Nervous System.— Nerves. — As a result of injuries (gun-shot wounds, division, etc.) and disease (neuritis) of the peripheral nerves, nail-changes have been noted in association with glossy skin and muscular atrophy, such as increased curving, brittleness, furrows, atrophy, hypertrophy, onychogryposis, and even shedding. The nails may also be altered in the condition known as erythromelalgia (Weir Mitchell), which is included here, although there is still disagree- ment as to its exact etiology and pathology. Spinal Cord.—Various changes in the nails have been noted in tabes dorsalis, myelitis, syringomyelia (see also section viii., Morvan's disease), and so forth. Subungual hcemorrhages, followed by repeated shedding of the big toe-nails, have been seen to occur in disseminated sclerosis and especially in tabes. In these cases the big toe-nails were symmetrically affected, but not simultaneously ; they were rapidly replaced. Brain, including Insanity. — Many observers have called attention to alterations in the nails in general paralysis, epilepsy, and so forth. Mental Shocks.—Cases are on record where shock, great fright, and so forth have been followed by the shedding of the nails. VII. Onychia Maligna (Wardrop — onyxis des scrofuleux). — Under this name Wardrop described a condition which commenced with marked swelling of a deep red colour of the soft parts at the root of the nail. Ulceration of the soft parts, with a thin ichorous discharge, occurs, leading to tumefaction about the end of the affected toe or finger. The nail loses its natural colour, its growth is interrupted, and in some places appears to have little connection with the soft parts. The pain is sometimes very great, but it may be absent. The big toes and thumb are most frequently affected, the patients being usually young. This con- dition is scrofulous in nature. It is uncommon, and there is no doubt that it has been confused with syphilitic perionychia (see section ix.). VIII. AVhitlows are a common cause of mal- formation and destruction of the nail. They may occur under the nail, or at its root or sides. Severe, neglected whitlows of the pulp of the finger, leading to destruction of the terminal phalanx, will naturally affect the nail in its shape and texture. Among the changes I have noted as a result of a whitlow at the root of a nail, are ir- regular growth, with transverse wavy ridges and furrows, brittleness, and splitting when trimmed. Or a thickened median longitudinal ridge may form, with an indentation at the free end. Or, again, the nail may be slowly cast off, a new nail gradually taking its place. In some cases recurrent superficial pustula- tion (irritation of thimble, etc.) may eventu- ally give rise to longitudinal striations, pro- tuberances, and so forth. In a case of this kind, going on for a year, about the root of some of the finger-nails, the latter had either been shed or had shelled off in flakes. The affected nails were brownish-yellow, thickened, with transverse furrows. The patient also suffered from Raynaud's disease (local syncope and asphyxia of several fingers), and the nails, which were not liable to the recurrent gather- ings, were pitted, furrowed, and ribbed, with white spots; one nail presented a crescentic white band near the free end, with concavity forwards (leuconychia). Recurrent punctate suppuration in the nail- bed, usually affecting one finger, occurs in children—frequently, according to Hutchinson. Morvan's disease (syringomyelia) may be in- cluded in this group. In this condition whit- lows, painless in the great majority of cases, occur for years about the finger-ends. The nails may be shed or altered in various ways. IX. Syphilis (psoriasis unguium is a term sometimes improperly used for syphilis of the nail). When the primary chancre occurs about the nail, the latter may be destroyed to a greater or less extent, or become permanently deformed, with irregular ridges and furrows, discoloured, and brittle, the more so as the syphilitic nature of the sore is often at first and for some time quite overlooked. The pain is described as being very severe, and this frequently leads to the erroneous diagnosis of whitlow. In the course of syphilis, papules may appear under the nails. Various changes have been observed, such as thinning and splitting ; or the surface may become furrowed and discoloured, with superficial pitting and erosins {onychia syphilitica). A more important condition is syphilitic