NECK, REGION OF 526 anterior branches of the external carotid, the lingual being given off opposite to it, the superior thyroid below it, and the facial a short distance above it. It should be remembered that the veins corresponding to these vessels m\ist cross the carotid in order to reach the internal jugular vein. The occipital artery generally arises at the same level as the facial. The hypoglossal nerve winds round it close to its origin on its way to the floor of the mouth. Lower down, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus must be avoided on its way to pierce the thyrohyoid membrane (internal branch) to supply the raucous membrane of the larynx. The spinal accessory nerve is in considerable danger in extensive removal of glands. It enters the sterno-mastoid about two inches below the tip of the mastoid, and emerges from it about the centre of its posterior border. Lymphatics.—These have already been dealt with in the description given of the lymphatics of the whole body (p. 98). The frequency of glandular enlargements in the neck, however, makes it necessary to refer to the matter again. A superficial chain of glands follows the course of the external jugular vein. The lymph it receives comes from the outer ear, the skin of the front and back of the neck, the occipital and mastoid glands, and (partly) from the parotid and submaxillary glands. A deep cervical chain of glands follows and often ad- heres to the internal jugular vein. The upper set, extending from the bifurcation of the carotid to the base of the skull, are called the deep superior cervical, the lower the deep inferior cervical. In addition, a set of glands upon the submaxillary salivary gland, and a set in the supraclavicular region, are known respectively by these names. The deep superior cervical are fed from the cranial cavity, the posterior part of the tongue^ the lower pharynx, the larynx, the thyroid gland, the deep muscles of the neck, and partly from the submaxillary glands. The deep inferior cervical ultimately gets the lymph from all the other glands of the neck. The area drained by the submaxillary set is large, consisting of the face, lips, floor of the mouth, gums, and teeth of lower jaw, anterior part of the tongue, and the parotid lymphatic glands. The supraclavicular are a continuation of the deep inferior cervical; they communicate with the lymphatics of the breast, axilla, and mediastinum. To the occipital glands, placed on the origin of the trapezius, run the lymphatic vessels of the back of the head. The Middle Line of the Neck.—The anatomy of this region is important, both on account of the variety of operations which are performed there, and also from the greater importance of wounds in this region as compared with other -wounds of the neck. Beginning at the sym- physis menti, the following are the structures met with from above downwards in order:— (1) The mylohyoid raphe. Just under the chin, however, the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles meet, and the platysma muscles decussate across the middle line ; (2) The hyoid bone; (3) The thyrohyoid membrane; (4) The pomum Adami and thyroid cartilage; (5) The crico-thyroid membrane; (6) The cricoid cartilage (opposite the sixth cervical vertebra); (7) The upper rings of the trachea ; (8) The isthmus of the thyroid gland; (9) The trachea with the inferior thyroid plexus of veins. The presence of these veins and the greater depth of the trachea make the "low operation" of tracheotomy (below the isthmus) more difficult than the " high opera- tion " (above the isthmus). The occasional presence of the thyroidea ima artery and, in children under two years, the thymus gland are further mesial structures which may be met with. It must not be forgotten, too, that the structures normally forming the middle line of the neck may be displaced to one side by an inflammatory swelling or by a tumour. The surgeon, therefore, should always be most care- ful to identify the landmarks of the neck before operating, particularly in obese subjects. Injuries.—Burns.—The neck has long been recognised as a most serious site for burns, chiefly on accoimt of the terrible deformity which may follow cicatrisation; owing to the laxity of the tissues the chin may be drawn down in extreme cases so as to touch the shoulder, or the mouth may similarly be pulled into the region of the neck. In the treatment of deep burns, therefore, this tendency to con- traction should be met by the liberal application of skin drafts, using Thiersch's method, the neck at the same time being kept extended by some form of splint. Contusions, etc.—Contusions or fractures of the larynx or fractures of the hyoid bone occa- sionally occur as the result of kicks or manual compression, as in garrotting. Contusions else- where are usually not followed by serious results. Wounds.—Wounds of the sides and nape of the neck call for no special reference, haemorrhage being treated in the same way as elsewhere. Wounds, however, of the anterior aspect acquire a special importance owing to the'frequent in- volvement of the food and air passages. Cut Throat.—The wound producing this in- jury is generally incised, is more or less trans- verse, and, though it may be met with at any level in the middle line, it perhaps most often involves the thyrohyoid membrane. Here the pharynx is opened into. The wound is almost invariably homicidal or suicidal. If the latter, it is (if the operator is right-handed) directed obliquely from left to right, and is deepest at the commencement. The wound may be quite