MIDWIVES 406 training and control of midwives were adopted in France, in 1810 in Austria and in Sweden and Norway, in Belgium in 1818, and in Hol- land in 1865. It is true that in 1813 an at- tempt was made to get the British Parliament to pass enactments "for the examination and control of midwives, making it penal for any woman to practise without a license, granted after examination"; but no legislative result followed. In due time Medical Acts were passed, but the portion relating to midwives was dropped out of them. During the last decade of the century, however, it became plain that legislation could not be much longer delayed. Select committees of the House of Commons met and reported in 1892 and 1893, and the General Medical Council in 1889 and 1893 was strongly in favour of the passing of laws regulating the education and super- vision of midwives. Legislative efforts were made to obtain the registration of midwives in 1898 and 1899, but it was not till 1902, one hundred years after France had led the way, that England got its Midwives Registration Bill. It came into operation on April 1, 1903. While these attempts toward legislation had been going on, the education of midwives had been carried on by the staffs of the various maternity hospitals, some of which gave certifi- cates of which some were based upon examina- tions ; but it was quite possible for ignorant women to commence practising without giving or being required to give to the public any such assurance of capability or skill. In 1872 the Obstetrical Society of London began to make arrangements for the examining of women desiring to become midwives; in that year eight women applied, of whom six passed and two failed to obtain the L.O.S. "diploma." In 1873, twelve women applied and eleven passed. For the next five years the numbers applying were very small; but by the end of 1894 there were over fovu- hundred women endeavouring annually to obtain this certificate of efficiency, and the total number on the register was 2166. The Society in its diploma certified that the bearer was a "skilled midwife competent to attend Natural Labours," and it required from each candidate a certificate of good moral character, one showing that she was not under twenty-one years of age, and proof of having personally attended not less than twenty-five labours under supervision satisfactory to the Board of Examiners. Each candidate had also to pass a written and oral and practical ex- amination in certain subjects in obstetrics, including natural labour, the indications of abnormal labours, the htemorrhages, antiseptics, and the management of the puerperal state. Exception was taken by the General Medical Council to the wording of the diploma as sug- gesting that the holder had a registrable quali- fication ; but the Society did good pioneer work in the training of midwives until the passing of the Bill in 1902. The maternity hospitals in Scotland also gave certificates to their pupils after examination, and elsewhere laudable efforts were made to improve the training of monthly nurses; but till 1902 there was no control over the practice of inefficient or ignorant women. The Midwives Act was not made applicable to Scotland; but the Scottish maternity hospitals train pupils for passing the examinations re- quired by it, and no doubt its effect has been to raise the standard of education all over the country. Let us now look at the Act itself. The Midwives Act (2 Edw. 7, cap. 17).— The purpose of the Act was to secure the better training of midwives and to regulate their practice. It was enacted by it that " from and after the first day of April 1905, any woman who not being certified under this Act shall take or use the name or title of midwife (either alone or in combination with any other word or words), or any name, title, or description imply- ing that she is certified under this Act, or is a person specially qualified to practise midwifery, or is recognised by law as a midwife, shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding five pounds. From and after the first day of April 1910, no woman shall habitu- ally and for gain attend women in childbirth otherwise than under the direction of a qualified medical practitioner unless she be certified under this Act; any woman so acting without being certified imder this Act shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding ten pounds, provided this section shall not apply to legally qualified medical practitioners, or to anyone rendering assistance in a case of emergency." Certification under the Act im- plies the fulfilment of various conditions to be specified below, and no uncertified person can be employed as a substitute. Further, "the certificate under this Act shall not confer upon any woman any right or title to be registered under the Medical Acts or to assume any name, title, or designation implying that she is by law recognised as a medical practitioner, or that she is authorised to grant any medical certificate, or any certificate of death or of still-birth, or to undertake the charge of cases of abnormality or disease in connection with parturition." The Act also made provision by which an existing midwife might during 1903 and 1904 be certified if she held a certificate from various institutions and if she had been for at least one year in bona fide practice as a midwife, and bore a good character. The Act then joroceeded to deal with the Con- stitution and duties of the Central Midwives Board (C.M.B.), with appeals from its decisions, with fees and expenses, with the Midwives' Roll, with the local supervision of midwives, with notification of practice, with penalties for ob- taining certificates by false representation, etc. We shall now look at some of the rules