MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 278 education in England, and its neglect at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, did not aiford the opportunities enjoyed by distinguished professors in those of Italy, Germany, and France of founding schools among the students who gathered round them from every land. The English physicians of the eighteenth century, Radclifte, Meade, Frend, and others were scholars, and some of them accomplished mathematicians, who, dazzled by the brilliant discoveries of Newton, Halley, and Napier, and sensible of the scant assistance that chemistry and anatomy in their imperfect and unsatis- factory state could render towards the elucida- tion of the problems of physiology and disease, sought to explain them on mathematical principles, though the influence of Sydenham prevented their carrying their theories to the same length as was done by Pitcairn, a Scotsman by birth, but professor at Leyden. Hermann Boerhaave (1668-1733), who was for many years professor of medicine at Leyden, where his lectures were attended by students from all nations, including nearly every one of the leading English physicians of the time, was without exception the greatest teacher of clinical medicine the world had seen. No less practical and observant than Sydenham, he was, unlike him, deeply versed in all the science of his age, even cultivating the use of the microscope for the investigation of pathological processes. Though his tendency was towards the iatro- mechanical doctrines, he was thoroughly catholic and eclectic, and professed the utmost admira- tion of the methods of Hippoci-ates and Syden- ham. His Aphorisms were long held in de- servedly high esteem, and his influence on the practice of his age was immense. As a scientific physician he is best known by his theories of inflammation, obstruction, and especially of plethora, which, if too mechanical, were more rational than any that had preceded them. As a scholar he collated ancient and modern medicines from a historical standpoint in his great work, Institutioties Medicina;, which, how- ever, exerted less influence on practical medicine than the Aphorisms, in which he formulated the results of his long experience. His teaching and methods were introduced into the school at Vienna by Van Swieten, who had been one of his pupils at Leyden. But the inveterate tendency to the creation of systems and the attainment of a spurious completeness reasserted itself at the university founded by Frederick III. at Halle, where Frederick Hoffmann (1660-1742) and Geo. Ernest Stahl (1660-1734) were professors and colleagues. Their systems had little in common, and alike devoid of scientific merit, are of in- terest solely as representing the last flickering of medijEval mysticism. Hoffmann, seizing on Newton's hypothesis of an ether pervading all space, ascribed life to its inhalation and ac- cumulation in the brain, where it was trans- formed into the pneuma in man or into an inferior form of vital fluid in the lower animals. Health consisted in the maintenance of " tone " in the tissues, an excess of defect of which, spasm or atony, constituted disease. Hoffmann wished to reconcile materialism and spiritual- ism ; but Stahl, while explaining the phenomena of life in the lower animals on natural or mechanical principles, ascribed everything in man to the action of the "soul," even disease being the manifestation of its rational efforts to expel offending matters from the system. As Sydenham and Boerhaave were the apostles of a rational empiricism placing the treatment of disease on a safe, however unscientific, basis, so Haller and Morgagni were the creators of the sciences of physiology and pathology, the inaugurators of a new era of continuous progress on scientific lines. Albrecht von Haller (1703- 1777), a pupil of Boerhaave, was appointed professor at Gottingen in 1737, the year of the foundation of that university. His knowledge of the natural sciences and of medical literature surpassed even that of his master, Boerhaave, whose methods he followed. His great discovery was the distinction between the irritability of muscle fibres and the sensibility of nerve, thus banishing all dreams of a soul or archeus ruling every function and process in the living body. He arrived at this conclusion, not by a prio7-i reasoning, but by series of actual experiments on living animals. He was also the first to study the effects of drugs in the healthy man or animal with the view of deter- mining their physiological action, and thus explaining, if possible, the power they exercised on the course and symptoms of disease—a study that has of late years been pursued with great success under the name of pharmacology. But solid as was the work of Haller, that of Giovanni Battista Morgagni (1682-1771) possesses a peculiar and permanent interest. Post-mortem examinations had been made and descriptions published by Montanus, Lancisi, Valsalva, Vieusseux, Haller, Tulpius, and others, but mostly as curiosities of medicine, and mixed up, as in Tulpius' Observations, with reports of unusual cases, remarkable operations, and strange malformations, not, as by Morgagni, with the definite intention of assisting in the construction of a true science of morbid anatomy, as it was then called. He was an indefatigable worker, a careful observer and good microscopist; but it was not until his eightieth year, nine years before his death, that he determined to collate, classify, and give to the world the results of his life's labours in a series of letters, entitled De sedibus et causis morboi'um per anatomen indagatis. Other works of more or less merit appeared in Italy and elsewhere, the first complete treatise on pathology in the English language having been that of Matthew Baillie,