VASCULAR DISORDERS LUNGS, DISEASES OF— 83 pleura as a rule, and at the apex careful ex- amination will disclose the plugged vessel with the embolus in situ. The infarction is usually in the lower part of the lung, and very often near the anterior or lower margin, apparently because emboli tend to enter the branches of the pulmonary artery, going to the lower lobe. The area of the infarction bulges prominently (after the lungs have been removed), and the pleura is generally covered by a thin layer of fibrinous lymph. The lung involved is firm and consolidated, and is suffused with blood which in time becomes absorbed, and gives the tissue more of a russet-brown than the earlier blood-red colour. Microscopically, the alveoli are found to be at first filled with red blood corpuscles, desquamated alveolar epithelium, and some fibrin; but later, considerable increase of interstitial tissue occurs. The bronchi in the neighbourhood may dilate. The infarctions are generally superficial, but they may be deep- seated in the lung substance, in which case they do not have the typical wedge shape, but are rounded or oval. These pulmonary infarctions vary greatly in size, generally measuring one to two inches at the base of the wedge; but a whole lobe may be involved, or on the other hand they may be of extremely small size. All infarctions are not hsemorrhagic, but it is desirable before referring to these to say a word or two in explanation of the haemorrhage into the obstructed area of lung. Pulmonary arteries are end arteries ; but the alveolar capillaries freely anastomose, and prob- ably from all sides blood pours into the area where the vessel walls or rather capillary walls have undergone a change, consequent on the embolism, permitting of free diapedesis. Prob- ably enough, according to Litten, the vessels of the pleura may help. The blood may escape by the bronchi and be freely expectorated, thus giving the patient suffering from backward pres- sure much relief; or no blood may be spat at all, although several large hsemorrhagic infarctions are present. Hamilton of Aberdeen holds that these hsemorrhagic apoplexies are not necessarily embolic in origin, and that they may be due to rupture of capillaries from pressure, the wedge-like shape being due to the distribution of the bronchial tubes. While there is no reason to suppose that such rupture never occurs, an embolus, or at least a thrombus, is almost always present, and can be found by careful examination near the apex of the wedge; and also Hamilton's theory would hardly explain the possibility of such apoplexies occurring without haemoptysis, and yet that clinical feature is sometimes wanting. An embolism plugging a large branch of the pulmonary artery may not cause a hsemorrhagic infarct, but may cause oedema and distension of lung, if almost immediately fatal; or it may cause collapse with some surrounding hypersemia and distension of lung. In capillary embolism oedema is a common result, but the degree varies greatly. Septic emboli cause septic infarction, and the wedge-shaped area, after passing through a more or less rapid pneumonic stage, breaks down and forms an abscess which may rupture into the pleura and set up a pyopneumothorax, often of a gangrenous type, or else the contents may be expectorated. A similar result may occur if in the area of infarction caused by an aseptic embolus septic organisms chance to be present. The author has seen one such case where there was no reason to suppose the original embolus was other than aseptic. Clinical Features.—Where a large branch is blocked a painful death is inevitable, and much dyspnoea, pain over the chest, marked cyanosis, and cold, clammy perspiration with a feeble rapidly acting heart, precede asphyxia with convulsive seizures or failure of the heart. In a less immediately fatal case the dyspnoea continues, but the heart regains somewhat of its old strength and regularity, and the patient may live for days or weeks with less pain but constant distress, and very often with marked Cheyne-Stokes breathing; should the area involved increase by thrombosis or a fresh embolism, death may ensue. Exophthalmos has sometimes been observed in these cases. Generally the patient, if he survive, begins to spit blood more or less freely. Capillary embolism following on fracture of a long bone is so apt to continue increasing, that death with extreme and ever-increasing dyspnoea is most probable. In the ordinary hsemorrhagic infarction or pulmonary asphyxia of a heart case no such desperate symptoms develop. There are both sudden cardiac pain, often localised to the region affected, and dyspnoea; but the distress soon yields, and the patient, generally in a few hours or days, spits blood. Sometimes friction may be heard over the area involved. Frequently tubular breathing with fine moist rales may be distinguished over an area of infarction, and should collapse occur, localised absence or enfeeblement of breath sounds may help in the diagnosis of the condition. A dull note on percussion is not infrequent, and in all probability evidence of dilatation of the right heart will not be wanting, while some- times, it is said, a pulmonary systolic murmur is heard. Should infarction be of a septic nature, the hectic temperature with typical sweating and sometimes diarrhoea will be present, while the brownish or chocolate- coloured often gangrenous smelling sputum, with sometimes development of pyopneumo- thorax, where it occurs, should render the diagnosis clear. There ought to be little difficulty in diagnosing most cases of pulmonary embolism—the causal conditions, the typical