185 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF The relative frequency, however, with which each of these channels is involved is a matter of dispute. In many instances it can be de- monstrated that the disease is conveyed to the mamma from the axillary glands or from the pleura. According to the stage to which the morbid process has reached, Dubar distinguishes two forms of the disease, viz., the early or dissemi- nated and the late or confluent. Microscopically, the morbid process is essen- tially the same as that which is observed in tuberculosis of a glandular organ : for example, the testicle. The first change is a leucocyte infiltration and connective-tissue proliferation of the periacinous and periductal supporting tissue. The acini, at first distinctly recognis- able, become invaded, and ultimately destroyed. Giant cells sooner or later make their appear- ance and stamp the tissue as tuberculous. As this is an infective process, these changes gradually spread to adjacent lobules until numerous tuberculous caseating nodules varying in size from a small pea to an almond are developed {disseminated nodular form of Dubar). It is by the enlargement along with the caseous softening and coalescence of these nodules that the confluent form of the disease results, giving rise to the formation of a firm, nodular, and somewhat ill-defined tumour-like mass which produces a general or localised enlargement of the breast. The centre of the mass forms an irregiilar caseous abscess from which diverticula and pockets, separated by imperfect septa, extend into the surrounding breast tissue. The gradual spread of the area of infection ultimately allows of the detection of softening and fluctuation at one or more points. Next the subcutaneous tissue becomes involved; then the skin, which ultimately gives way, and leads to the formation of sinuses with undermined edges and a tuberculous discharge. The axillary glands are diseased in 75 per cent of the cases, and their enlargement is often noticed long before the breast itself manifests any clinical signs of the disease. When infection of the glands is delayed until after the disease in the breast is well advanced, they enlarge rapidly and soon become converted into caseous abscesses. Sometimes indurated breast tissue can be traced from the affected area of the breast to the diseased glands. The commencement of the disease is slow and insidious, and as a rule little or no pain is complained of. In the disseminated form, which is rarely diagnosed before abscesses and sinuses have formed, the breast and skin over it have a perfectly normal appearance. On palpation, however, one or more nodules can generally be discovered. In the early stage the disease is liable to be mistaken for simple lobular mastitis or for multiple cystic disease, and when only one tuberculous nodule can be felt, for fibro- adenoma. In the later stages, especially when the axillary glands have become secondarily involved, and when there are no tuberculous manifestations elsewhere, it is very liable to be mistaken for malignant disease with cystic degeneration. The confluent form is very apt to be mistaken for a new growth, especially for a carcinoma.; the tuberculous mass, however, is not so hard, nor does it involve the skin in the same way as a scirrhus. The prognosis as regards the mamma is bad, as the disease slowly leads to its destruction ; the prognosis as regards life depends less upon the mammary aff'ection than upon the associated tuberculous lesions in other parts of the body. The treatment of both forms of the disease is the same, viz., removal of the whole breast and the axillary glands. Less radical operations, such as curetting or partial excisions, are almost certain to be followed by reappearance of the disease. On no account should a patient with a tuberculous breast be allowed to nurse her child. It is very rare to meet with a typical smooth- walled tuberculous abscess in the mamma with the rest of the organs healthy. A retromam- mary tuberculous abscess secondary to tuber- culosis of a rib, or of the pleura, is, on the other hand, by no means rare. The treatment of these conditions need not be specially referred to, as it is the same as that of tuberculous abscesses elsewhere. Actinomycosis Until the characteristic seed-like bodies were discovered in the discharge from the chronic abscesses to which the fungus gives rise, the few cases of actinomycosis which have been recorded were diagnosed originally as tubercle or syphilis, more often as the former. The disease leads to the formation of sinuses, ad- hesion of the skin, and much induration of the breast tissue. The safest treatment is to excise the whole breast. The prognosis in the primary form of the disease depends upon whether metastasis has occurred, while in the secondary form it is influenced by the site of the primary lesion. In the primary form the parasite prob- ably gains entrance by way of the ducts, but cases have been recorded in which the breast has been accidentally infected at an operation. Neuralgia of the Mamma—Mastodynia In typical examples of this aff'ection the breast is the seat of severe neuralgic pain, unassociated with any discoverable abnormality. The con- dition is generally met with in young unmarried neurotic, and often hysterical women, who are frequently the subjects of disorders connected with the pelvic genital organs. Usually only one breast is complained of, but not infrequently