MEASLES 224 Koplik of New York states that small, ir- regular, bright-red spots, with a raised bluish- white centre about the size of a small pin's head, can be detected on the mucous membrane of the cheek and lips during the early pre-eruptive stage in measles. Slawyk and Roily confirm their diagnostic value, the former having found them in 45 out of 52, and 31 out of 32 cases. He states that they vary in number fi'om 6 to 20 on each side, though often more numerous on one side than the other. Their most common situation is said to be the surface of the cheek opposite the molar teeth, and thovigh less fre- quently on the lips, are never present on the palate. It is said that they cannot be removed by ordinary manipulation, but may be picked off with a pair of forceps, and that they are composed of thick layers of fatty epithelium. The freqvient presence of these spots is confirmed by Cohn, who, however, thinks that Koplik goes too far in describing them as constant. All these observers agree in stating that the spots may be seen from one to three days before the rash comes out, though rapidly disappearing afterwards, and that bright daylight may be necessary for their recognition. It must be confessed that most observers in this covmtry have hitherto, for the most part, failed to detect the appearances above described. In many cases, however, at an early stage of the attack, a number of small dead-white spots, varying in size from a small pin's head to a millet seed, of an obviously aphthous nature, can be detected on the mucous surface of the cheek, lips, and contiguous surface of the gums. They may be removed with but little force, and quickly disappear as the catarrh abates. The intestinal track is liable to be involved at an early stage of the attack, as evidenced by the occurrence of severe diarrhoea which sometimes proves very refractory to treatment. This is very likely to be a source of trouble when arising at a later stage of the disease. Micturi- tion, too, in children is apt to be unduly frequent, a result which is probably due to irritation of the urethral mucous membrane. Olandular Affection.—The lymphatic glands in the neck, both in the submaxillary and in the posterior cervical region, are usually some- what enlarged and often slightly tender. The swelling, however, is never very great, nor do the glands evince any tendency to suppuration, as is seen in scarlet fever. The Temperature.—This usually rises with the first sign of illness, and may reach 102° or more within the first twenty-four hours, but during the course of the second or third day it often declines a degree or two concurrently with a partial abatement of the catarrhal con- dition. During the course of the third or fourth day, often the third night, the pyrexia rapidly increases, and rising as the rash comes out, usually reaches its climax co-incidently with the full development of the eruption. The temperature then commonly registers 103° or 104°, which in most cases corresponds with the second day of the eruption. After remaining at this level for some hours, rarely more than a day, a rapid fall of temperature occurs, and the normal is quickly reached. So constant is this relation between the pyrexia and the eruption, that should a temperature crisis fail to appear within twenty-four hours of the full development of the rash, one is justified in assuming that some respiratory complication has supervened, which may, or may not, prove serious. In a good many cases a partial re- mission of the pyrexia occurs, but the tempera- ture does not come right down to normal in con- sequence of its fall having been arrested by an extension of the bronchial catarrh. Pulse and Respiration. —■ In uncomplicated attacks of measles, neither pulse nor respiration presents any features other than those ordinarily associated with the febrile state; but should the attack be complicated with broncho- pneumonia, or definite bronchitis supervene, the rapidity of both, particularly the respiration, is markedly increased. Delirium.—In the simple form of the disease delirium is certainly uncommon, but in the sevei'er cases, where, owing either to the toxic intensity of the disease or to pulmonary implica- tion, the exhaustion is profound, delirium, attended with muscular tremor, is apt to arise, and in young children frequently gives place to convulsions, which are nearly always fatal. The convulsions which in infants sometimes occur during the early pre-eruptive stage are not necessarily of the same seriovis import. Aberrant Forms.—Cases of measles are not infrequently met with which deviate from the ordinary type. This may be simply in respect to their extreme mildness, or, on the other hand, their severity. In the former category must be included those attacks in which the catarrhal signs are almost, if not entirely, absent; and the patient, beyond showing slight conjunctival injection, with perhaps a little cough, or some dryness of the throat, may experience but little discomfort, although the rash may be well developed and its appearance characteristic. In other cases, although the catarrhal symptoms may be well marked, the rash is either conspicuous by its absence or, if it appear at all, is but partial and ill developed. Under these circumstances, the type of attack, though sometimes mild, is by no means necessarily so, for an ill-developed or recedent eruption is apt to be attended with pulmonary congestion, profuse diarrhoea, and a persistently high temperature. In some benign cases with but slight evidence of catarrh the rash is practically limited to the face and neck; in others, though more rarely, the trunk alone may be invaded. Such attacks