MALINGERING 165 in the aspect of real insanity, with some experi- ence of feigned cases, to detect the flaw ; and he must use his own devices to elicit further exaggerated performances. When he is con- vinced of his diagnosis of imposture he may have recourse to restraint, cold baths, low diet, electricity, and other harmless but unpleasant " remedial" agents. Much courage of his opinions is now called for, and consultative support is always advisable, as the responsi- bility should be shared to avoid subsequent annoyances. In conclusion, we may remark that we have only referi'ed to a few of the forms which mahngering assumes, as the length at our disposal prohibits further illustrations. Our object has been to show the general characters of all malingering to be inconsistency and ex- aggeration of symptoms, and the qualities de- manded for detection to be obse?-vation of small details and logical deduction from them. The practitioner who once grasps the situation will not be at a loss to realise when he meets with cases in which suspicion should be his attitude. Cautions.—We should always bear in mind that a man may have a subjective pain which may appear assumed, but which may be related to some real and grave organic lesion. Dr. Spry's case is instructive, where a trooper in the 2nd Life Guards complained of uncomfortable sensations in the oesophagus and stomach, follow- ing the " swallowing of a bone." Some suspicion of malingering was entertained at the time ; but Dr. Spry, impressed by a certain anxiety of aspect, detained the man under treatment, and three days later death suddenly ensued, and the autopsy revealed perforation of the aorta, caused by a spiculum of beef bone. Numerous cases of mysterious pain in the back have been cleared up by the rupture of an abdominal aneurysm. However, a timid practitioner will never become expert in detecting malingering. Caution and moral courage are required. No hurried diagnosis should be aimed at, and con- sultations should be held, if only as a means of protecting our own interests. As to the neces- sity of declaring our conviction when we have arrived at it, we must use great discretion, as frequently we do no good by publishing our discovery; and we may be acting greatly against our own professional interests. In the public service it is our duty to express our opinion; but in private practice it may be an act of honourable wisdom to keep our own counsel, while we do our best to bring back the impostor to a correct line of conduct. Ma,llea.tion.—A hammering action of the hands observed as an occasional symptom in cases of hysteria, insanity, or chorea. Mallei Bacillus. See Glanders {Bac- teriology) ; Micro-Organisms (Streptothrices). Mai lei n.—A product of the growth of the micro-organism of glanders (bacillus mallei), used in the diagnosis of the disease (malleinisation). See also Glanders (Bacteriology) ; Immunity (Specific Immunity, Protective Inoculation with Bacterial Cell Substances) ; Therapeutics, Se- rum Therapy (Mallein). Malleolus. — A hammer-head shaped projection of bone (Lat. malleus, a hammer), as seen at the lower end of the tibia and of the fibula. Mallet Finger.—Drop finger. See Deforjiities (Hand and Fingers, Acquired De- formities, Mallet Finger). Malleus.—The club-like ossicle found in the cavity of the tympanum ; also, glanders or farcy. See Ear, Affections of Tympanic Mem- brane ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease ; Physiology, Senses (Hearing, Iliddle Far). Mallow. See Balneology (Great Britain, Ireland). Mallow-Tea.—An infusion, containing the mucilage of marsh - mallow root (Althea officinalis). Malnutrition. — Defective nutrition, due to malassimilation, etc. See Alcohol (Mor- bid CJianges in Chronic Alcoholism); Gangrene (Definitions). Malpighian. — This adjective, derived from the name of Marcello Malpighi, an Italian physician (b. 1628, d. 1694), is applied to several structures which he discovered in the body—e.g. the Malpighian bodies in the kid- ney, the Malpighian corpuscles in the spleen, the rete Malpighi of the epidermis, etc. See Physiology, Blood (Spleen); Physiology, Ex- cretion (Kidney, Structure). Malposition.—An abnormal position of any organ or part, e.g. the uterus or foetus. Malpractice or Mai praxis.—im- proper treatment of a case, consisting either in the use of remedies not regarded as beneficial in the malady which is present or in culpable neglect of the patient. Malpresentation.—The abnormal lie of the foetus in utero (e.g. breech and shoulder cases) or of a part of the foetus (e.g. face presentations). See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism. Malt. See also Enzymes (Hydrolysing) ; Invalid Feeding (Malt).—Prepared by bringing the grain of common barley to a certain degree of germination by heat and then drying it. It contains the ferment diastase which has the property of converting starch into dextrin and