55 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS dusting and sweeping of rooms and offices ought to be carried out by moist methods and im- mediately after, not before, occupation. In the selection of residence, preference should be given to dwellings which obtain from position and aspect a maximum of sunlight. In fiats, the ground floor is to be avoided, and cellar tene- ments ought not to be inhabited. Dampness of residence, whether dependent on structural defects or site, is fatal. Education.—If there be threatened delicacy, education in the commonly-accepted sense must be held of secondary importance. Attention must be directed primarily to the physical re- formation of the individual. There is much need for physiological seminaries on fresh air principles, where such delicate children and youths would be properly taken in hand. Suit- able lung gymnastics, as by dumb-bells, Indian clubs, and the like, are of service. The move- ments must be slow, corresponding with the normal rate of respiration. They must be directed towards the production of a healthy form of chest and the correction of existing architectural deformity. The exercises should be practised in the open air, or, at least, in a room with the windows freely open. The individual should breathe through his nose, as he ought to be taught to do at all times. He should be lightly clad while exercising, and covered up thereafter. Open-air Life.—The facts of etiology go to prove that the more the individual is in the open air, the less likelihood is there of contract- ing the disease. The more he has to be indoors by the necessities of business, work or study, the greater risk he runs. Persons who have to lead sedentary lives during business hours must be taught to minimise the risk as much as possible by the direct admission of fresh air, and to counterbalance the disability by activity in the open air after business, and by an extra allowance of fresh air by night. The particular form of activity must vary in different cases. It is a good rule, however, that in presence of threatened delicacy, the more continuous equal activity, of which golf is an excellent example, is better than the less regular and more exciting, such as tennis or football. Exercises or other activity involving the inhalation of dust should be excluded. General Habits.—Regularity and simplicity of meals are to be enjoined. Dyspepsia and constipation should be relieved on simple lines. The use of stimulants and tobacco should be restricted. The habit of cigarette-smoking is to be discountenanced. Sexual excess must be avoided. Sufficiently warm but light clothing is desirable. All constriction of the thorax by dress must be excluded, more especially during the years of growth. Mufflers round the neck, extra flannels over the chest, and particularly so-called " chest-protectors " are to be discarded. On the other hand, the extremities, upper and lower, should be kept warm by means of suitable gloves and stockings. The peripheral circula- tion is best maintained by healthy activity ; this is assisted by a rapid morning dip—the shorter the better—in cool water, followed by dry rubbing. Thereby the heat-regulating mechanism of the skin is maintained in order. After acute illnesses, more especially those with tendency to complication from the side of the respiratory organs—e.g. measles, whooping- cough, influenza—a watchful supervision of the patient is necessary to ensure a complete return to health. There can be no doubt that where this is overlooked, pulmonary tuberculosis is frequently established or a latent tuberculosis roused into activity. Over and above the routine treatment of such infective conditions, it is often desirable to prolong the period of convalescence and send the patient away for a change of air. The danger of the introduction of pulmonary tuberculosis by milk directly has been seen to be slight. Nevertheless it is a good rule to insist on having milk scalded before use until such time as larger measures are adopted by the community for the exclusion of tuberculous milk from the market (p. 54). Boiling for a minute or two is quite sufficient. Actual boiling is not essential. Cream or milk kept at a temperature of 90° C. for five minutes is sufficiently treated; this can be effected in one or other variety of sauce-pan without materially affecting the taste and certainly with- out disturbing the nutritive value of the milk. It is worthy of note that during the process the milk is freed from other organisms as well as tubercle bacilli. If a member of a household be already affected, what precautions are necessary to prevent the carriage of infection (1) to other persons, and (2) to other parts of his own body? Such an individual must bear in mind that, in proportion as he follows the prophylactic lines already discussed, the less is he a danger to himself and other people. Cleanliness in the wide sense, through the free use of fresh air as well as water, is the best safeguard. Under such conditions of cleanliness the presence of the consumptive patient is little to be feared. It is right that he and his friends be reassured fully on the point. The person of the consumptive is not directly infectious. The breath of the consumptive is not directly a source of infection. There seems sufficient reason to maintain that even the explosive cough of some patients is not a likely means of carrying infection (Cornet). The moist particles so discharged are commonly salivary. When possible, however, it is desir- able to receive the particles on a rag or other destructible handkerchief. The vehicle of in- fection is the actual expectoration, which must be carefully handled on the lines already dis-