MALARIA 125 The full-grown Anopheles is a more graceful insect than Culex; its thorax and body are i'lG. lu.—Resting attitude of Anopheles. (After Waterhouse.) more slender and its legs more delicate (see Figs. 11 and 12). Ross noticed in India that Fig. 11.—Female Anopheles. Anopheles, when stationary, has its body nearly at right angles to the surface upon which it rests; whereas Culex lies with its body (see Figs. 9 and 10) parallel to its resting-place. This point of distinction, unfortunately, does not hold good for all species of Anopheles. Professor Guiteras of Havannah, Dr Sambon, and others, have observed that A. claviger— by far the most widely dis- tributed European species of Anopheles—does not assume the attitude described by Ross, but hangs with its body more nearly parallel to the surface. A. pseudopictus and A. cosfalis, on the other hand, undoubtedly do rest in the manner described by Ross. A more reliable point of dis- tinction between the two genera, and one that has also been noticed by Waterhouse, is that whereas Culex, when at rest, has a hunch- back appearance. Anopheles rests with its pro- boscis, head, thorax, and abdomen in one straight line (see Figs. 9 and 10). Most species of Anopheles have spotted wings (see Fig. 11). There are five out of the fifty-two species described with un- spotted wings. Some species (A. cosfalis, A. pseudopictus, and A. superpictus) have the spots, or rather bars, along the anterior margin of the wing (Fig. 11); others {A. claviger) have them on the upper surface. The palpi, in both sexes of Anopheles, are nearly as long as the proboscis and consist of five segments. In the male Culex the palpi are long, but in the female they are short, consisting of three segments only (see Fig. 12). The males of either genus can be readily distin- guished by the naked eye from the female by their feathery antennae. The terminal extremities of the palpi in the male Anopheles are bulbous or spatulate (Fig. 14). There is only one other genus of mosquito, the species of which have long palpi in both sexes, namely, the Megarhina. It is, however, unlike Ano- pheles in every other respect, being a large forest mosquito with brilliant colouring and unspotted wings. It is hardly ever known to bite man. The limited distribution of Anopheles is possibly accounted for by the fastidious- ness which it displays in selecting its breeding-place. Although it generally affects natural collections of water, as already remarked, yet, like other forms of animal life, it can within certain limits adapt itself to circumstances. I have observed, for instance, A. claviger in the Roman Campagna breeding freely in stagnant and foul