NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 516 will be dealt with first and cleared out of the way. They are practically limited to two, viz., smallpox and scarlatina. As to the former, when pustules form about the nails, various changes may result. They may become rough, uneven, discoloured, or they may be shed and not regenerate. Locke, who was a medical man as well as a philosopher, refers to a condition of onychogryphosis as a sequence of variola. Papules may develop under the nail. In scarlatina, shedding of the nails and trans- verse furrows have also been observed. Villaret, who records his own case, lost his finger- and toe-nails after an attack of scarlet fever, new nails gradually replacing the old ones in from three to six months. Among diseases of the skin eczema of the hands and feet is one of the most common causes of alterations of the nails, especially when repeated attacks occur. In this group the so- called trade eczemas and itches find their place (barmaid's, bricklayer's itch, and so forth); they are now more usually alluded to under the heading of irritant dermatitis. Among such irritant causes arsenic must be mentioned. When this agent was used to preserve bodies for dissecting purposes, inflammation of the fingers and nail - matrices was of frequent occurrence among medical students. In eczema the nail-changes observed vary greatly — thickening, thinning, pitting, dirty yellowish-brown discolorations, furrows, brittle- ness with splitting, and so forth. In severe, long-standing cases, associated with depression or mental stress, onycJiogryphosis may occur and prove very troublesome. Or, again, the nails may be reduced to mere horny, shapeless excrescences. In some patients more or less spooning may result, or the nail proper may be raised by subungual hyperkeratosis. Hyperidrosis of the hands and feet is fre- quently found in eczematous conditions of the extremities. When the former has been of long standing, I have seen the nails thickened, with longitudinal ridges and transverse furrows and protuberances. The association of hyperidrosis and keratosis is also well known : here again nail-changes occur. It is not uncommon to find the nails involved in psoriasis, either alone, which is rare, or with evidence of the disease in other parts of the body, which is usual. The changes in the nails vary in character, sometimes slight pitting only being present. In other cases the nails are thickened and discoloured, or onychogryphosis may occur. A common appearance is the loosening of the nail at the sides of its free border; it may be limited to the corners, but frequently it extends towards the root, down the sides of the nail, or the whole or the free border may be affected, more or less of the distal part of the nail being separated from its bed. One or more nails may be involved. Hutchinson considers the changes just referred to are characteristic of psoriasis ; but Radcliffe-Crocker does not agree with him on that point. The latter observer has seen detachment of the nail down the sides where there was no evidence of psoriasis. I have examined the nails in a nvimber of psoriasis cases, and I have met with a variety of changes. The gradual detach- ment of the nail from its bed, from the free edge towards the lunula, I have seen become more marked as the generalised skin eruption improved. Papules may develop under the nails. In pityriasis rubra, one of the few universal diseases of the skin, which sometimes supervenes on a generalised psoriasis or eczema, nail-changes are constant—varying, of course, in degree according to the duration and acuteness of the inflammatory condition. Thickening, transverse furrows and ridges, shedding, and so forth, are observed. Similar changes occur in pemphigus foliaceus, which also involves the whole of the body. The nails are sometimes affected in recurrent desquamative scarlatiniform dermatitis, and in the earliest recorded case the nails were all thrown off, new ones taking their place in about six months. When scrofuloderma occurs on the fingers roinid the nails, the latter may be elongated, with increased curvature, over the finger-ends, transversely ridged, uneven, dirty, and dis- coloured, with a tendency to onychogryposis. In leprosy various alterations of the nails are observed. They are brittle, furrowed, reduced to amorphous horny masses, or they may come away entirely on some of the toes and fingers. The shedding of the big toe-nail may result apparently from the formation of a bulla about its root. I have also noted symmetrical longitudinal ridging of the two ring finger-nails. The nails are always affected in epidermolysis bidlosa (hereditaria), sometimes called congenital pemphigus. They may be completely destroyed or reduced to small liorny pegs. In other cases the nail may become separated from its bed, with thickening and also accumulation of dirty epithelial masses beneath, and this quite apart, apparently, from the occurrence of bullae about the nail-roots. Radcliffe-Crocker has recorded an unusual case of congenital atrophy of the skin, several features of which are of interest. The patient was a girl, aged five, born at full term with neither hair nor nails, but the latter began to grow a week after birth. The teeth, which appeared at the usual time, were sound and good. All the finger-nails and the big toe-nails were discoloured and almost black for about two-thirds of their length. In a case of acanthosis nigricans the patient developed white transverse bands in nearly all