333 MENOPAUSE, THE the individual is at the menopause lost by slow and irregular steps. Nerves, blood-vessels, and tissues have time, day by day, to adjust them- selves to a new order of things : physiological compensation is established ; and in many cases so perfect is the process that the woman is in better health after the menopause than she was before it. She has paid her tax to humanity and she is now free from calls of that kind on her strength and activity. But in the artificial menopause the changes which nature intended should be spread over months are produced by the surgeon in half an hour, and there is in addition the nervous shock of a capital operation. The patients have usually also had years of suffering and have been compelled to lead lives inconsistent with nervous health or stability. It is not necessary to wonder at the greatest severity of the resulting symptoms. Even in the artificial menopause, however, there is a wide range of variation in the observed symptoms, and it would be an exaggeration to say that in all cases the discomforts are con- siderable. Many patients suffer no more after ablation of their ovaries than women commonly do at the natural menopause. The physiology of menstruation is dealt with elsewhere (see " Menstruation"). Many con- flicting theories have been set forth as to the exact share taken by the ovaries and the uterus in the production of menstruation, and it cannot be said that unanimity of opinion has been yet reached. Probably the truth is that both uterus and ovaries are active agents and that there is some nervous mechanism not yet under- stood linking the two together and combining them for the required physiological result. The retention of one ovary or of part of one has sufficed in many cases to keep up the function of menstruation. When the uterus is removed and the ovaries or one ovary is left, menstruation is arrested, but the other symptoms of the menopause do not arise till the time comes for the ovarian nerves to pass into the stage of quiescence. There is here a kind of " fictitious " menopause. There is no menstruation, but there are none of the symptoms of vaso-motor and other nerve disturbance common in a natural menopause. This is remarkable in view of the fact that a considerable number of cases have been collected by Goodell in which, with rudi- mentary and quite undeveloped uterus and no vagina, there have been marked menstrual molimina and suffering which has only been relieved by the removal of small and ill-developed ovaries: (1) Can it have been that in these cases the suffering was a pure neuralgia due to the imperfection of the ovaries rather than to their presence 1 On the other hand, in support of the leading part played by the ovaries we have been told of cases (2) in which menstruation has been maintained and an artificial menopause averted by the transplantation of an ovary from one woman to another after the ablation of both ovaries for disease. A further important point in what may be called the natural history of the menopause is the correlation which appears to exist between the devolution of the uterus and of the ovaries. At the menopause both these organs are going out of active life into the resting or passive condition which heralds senile changes. They grow old together, but the uterus ajjparently becomes old sooner than the ovaries ; it strikes work earlier. It is exceptional for a woman to bear a child after she is forty-four or forty-five. If she conceives as late as this, which she not very rarely does, the chances are she will miscarry. The ovaries here are at work ; they have developed a germ cell which has been capable of being fertilised, but which is cast oft" prematurely. It may be that the fault lies with the fertilised ovum, that its vitality is poor and that it dies. But it may also be that the uterus has grown old and that it is no longer capable of going through the cycle of changes required in child-bearing. Tlie lower-grade function of menstruation outlasts child-bearing by five or six years. The ovaries seem to supply the essential nerve stimulus, and the uterus the changed mucous membrane through which the blood exudes. The popular notion that the menopause occurs early in those who began menstrual life early, and that thirty years is about the general time for the catamenia to recur, seems to be baseless. It is a myth that has obtained widespread credence in spite of much experience which is directly opposed to it. The time at which puberty arrives is partly a matter of race and climate ; but it is also greatly influenced by the health and vigour of the individual woman. In childhood and youth constitutional vigour shows itself by the development of mind and body being at any given age in advance of what is usually seen. A specially fine child of six years of age is bigger and cleverer than most children are at eight or nine, and so onwards the same thing is seen up to maturity. Women of exceptionally good physique develop not only more perfectly but earlier than the average, while those of a distinctly poor type are behind their age in time, and are often permanently behind in the quality of their development. Many healthj^ young women, even in England, begin to menstruate before they are twelve and ai-e none the worse for it. When nearly forty years later they turn the corner of mature life and begin the downward path, their vigour shows itself by keeping them younger than their age, and they do not have the menopause even as early as delicate women who reached puberty at sixteen or seventeen. The rule in this respect is that vigour means a prolongation of the powers of mature life, and that feebleness goes with late, difficult, and often painful men-