93 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF Lymphatic System, Physio- logy and Pathology of. Lymph— Composition . . ■ ■ .93 Formation . . ■ ■ .93 Movements . . ■ • .94 Functions . . ■ ■ .96 Lymphatic Vessels .... 96 Lymphatic Glands— Structure ■ ■ ■ ■ .96 Functions . . - • .97 Distribution, Table of . • ■ 98 Thoracic Duct 100 Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels— Acute Lymphangitis .... 101 Chronic „ .... 101 Dilatation of Lymphatics . . ■ 101 Diseases of Lymphatic Glands— Acute Lymphadenitis . . .102 Chronic „ ■ .102 Simple „ ■ ■ .102 Tubercular Lymphadenitis . .102 Syphilitic „ . .103 Enlargements in General Diseases . 103 Enlargements in Malignant Disease . 103 Lymphadenoma . . . .103 Status Lymphaticus or Lymphatism . 106 Thymus-Tod" . . . .107 Lymphodermia Perniciosa . . 107 Lymphatic Circulation of the Central Nervous System— Physiology and Pathology . .107 See also Lymphatic Glands (and cross-refer- ences) ; Lymphatic Vessels (and cross-refer- ences) ; Status Lymphaticus ; Thymus Gland ; ETC. Lymph.—Composition.—As much of what has to be said with regard to lymph formation can only be understood after reference to its com- position, and to its relation to the blood-plasma, the percentage composition of the two fluids may here be cited. There are, of course, slight variations in different animals and under different circumstances which need not be discussed, but I have added the composition of chyle as illus- trating one of the variations of lymph :— Blood-Plasma. Lymph. Chyle. Water . 90-15 95 90-6 Total Solids . 9-sr. 5 9-4 Total Proteids . 8'8 4 2-2 Fats (all kinds). 0-2 0-4 6-4 Salts 0-8 0-8 0-8 Ordinary lymph is, therefore, in all respects similar to blood-plasma, except for the fact that it is poorer in proteids. The proteids in the two seem, however, to be identical; the pi'ocess of coagulation is the same, though the clot is looser and less rapidly formed (vide " Fluids, Examination of Pathological," vol. iii. p. 300 et seq). Formation.—The obvious view of this is that lymph is part of the blood-plasma which has passed through the capillary wall, bathes the tissue elements, and is collected by the lym- phatics to be returned to the blood by the thoracic duct. For years, however, there has been fierce discussion as to the way in which this exudation takes place. The two main views which have been advanced are, first, that originally put forward by Ludwig that the process is in the main one of filtration and diffusion ; and, second, that of Heidenhain, that the lymph is secreted by the endothelial cells of the capillary wall, and that the process is, therefore, rather a " vital " than a " physical " one. The experiments on which Heidenhain relied may be grouped in three sets:— 1. Obstruction of the thoracic aorta causes a general fall of arterial blood-pressure below the obstruction. In spite of this the flow of lymph from the thoracic duct may remain unaltered or be slightly increased. 2. Obstruction of the inferior vena cava above the diaphragm causes a general fall of blood- pressure, and the intestines become anfemic. There is an increased flow of a more concentrated lymph from the thoracic duct. Heidenhain believed that this lymph came from the in- testines. 3. The intravenous injection of two classes of bodies, both of which increase the lymph-flow. The first set of these " lymphagogues " are such substances as commercial peptone and watery extract of leeches or crayfish. These cause an increased flow of more concentrated lymph. The second set are such crystalloids as common salt and sugar. Injection of concentrated solu- tions of these cause an increased flow of less concentrated lymph, and some time after in- jection the lymph contains a greater percentage of the lymphagogues than does the blood-plasma. There may be a slight rise in blood-pressure, but this is not proportionate to the increase in the flow of lymph. Heidenhain thus found that the flow of lymph may be increased in amount in all these experiments without a correspond- ing rise in the blood-pressure (which he con- sidered necessary on the filtration hypothesis), and that in the last set of experiments the amount of injected substance in the lymph might rise above that in the blood, which could not be considered to be the case if diffusion came into play. He believed, therefore, that the process must be one of secretion rather than of exudation. Starling, who has repeated Heidenhain's experiments, and who is one of the main upholders of Ludwig's original view, considers that instead of overthrowing this view the experiments strongly support it. His line of