355 MENTAL DEFICIENCY formation. Microcephalic heads have a charac- teristic form. The forehead, deficient in lateral development, rapidly recedes to a somewhat pointed vertex {oxycephalic), and the occipital region is flattened. Such cranial characters, together with large bright eyes and a prominent nose, may often be discerned in cases of but slight mental impairment (the so-called feeble- minded), even when circumferential measure- ments are not much below the normal, and may indeed furnish a key to the mental inferi- ority manifested. Extreme cases, in which the greatest circumference did not exceed thirteen or fourteen inches, have been from time to time re- corded under such titles as the "bird-man," the "ape-man," the "rabbit-man," etc.; and the so- called " Aztecs " formerly exhibited in Barnum's show, whose cranial circumference was under fifteen inches, belonged to this type. With a capacity of less than 400 grammes, which obtains in such instances as the above, the manifesta- tions of mind must necessarily be of the simplest. But as the capacity increases it is surprising how human mental characteristics assert them- selves, and in a case formerly imder the daily observation of the present writer, in which the weight of the encephalon was no more than 352"5 grammes (the circumference of head being little over fifteen inches), there was some power of speech and of reasoning out ideas. In- deed, it may be said that with this type the gradations of intelligence vary very much with the size of the brain. Certain atrophic conditions of portions of the brain may be mentioned in connection with this type, such as defects of the corpus callosum and other commissural structures which have been recorded by Langdon-Down, Bruce, and others. A remarkable case of cerebellar atrophy in an imbecile girl of fifteen, who presented no ataxic symptoms during life, was observed by the present writer. (b) Porencephalic cases, usually associated with paralytic idiocy, have been described by Heschl, Micrzejewski, Kundrat, Wigles- worth, Shuttleworth, and others. True poren- cephalus may correctly be described as a congenital condition, inasmuch as it usually dates from the fifth to the seventh month of intra-uterine life. (There is also an acquired or false porencephalus, resulting from de- structive lesion after birth.) However caused, the brain is deformed by a communication between the surface of the hemisphere and the lateral ventricles. In some cases, as in one met with by the writer, asymmetry of the skull may result with a flattening of the corresponding frontal region ; and in all, hemiplegic symptoms result. (c) Hydrocephalic cases may be of antenatal origin, but more frequently hydrocephalus comes on after birth, either in early infancy or at the period of dentition. Cranial deformity varies much in extent according to the amount of effusion, though cases are recorded—of the congenital type especially — in which the volume of the brain has been diminished by the pressure of fluid without much expansion of the bones of the skull. As a general rule, however, the obovate appearance of the head viewed from above, its globular aspect when looked at from in front, with bulging at the temples, and eyeballs with depressed axes, are characteristic of this type. The enlargement of the skull sometimes takes place in the antero- posterior direction, constituting the scapho- cephalic form described by Bourneville. The degree of mental impairment varies remarkedly in hydrocephalic cases, not always in direct ratio to the excessive size of head, which may vary from 22 or 23 inches to 37 in circumference, an extreme case being described by Seguin of the latter dimensions, in which there was a fair amount of mental activity. {d) Mongoloid cases have very definite physical characteristics, accompanied with mental traits which are also typical. The head is brachy- cephalic, with tendency to parallelism of anterior and posterior planes—that is to say, there is defective occipital development, with an absence of protuberance. The eyes are often obliquely set, with the palpebral fissures sloping upwards to the external angle. At the inner angle there are frequently found traces of an epicanthic fold prolonged from the upper eyelid. The nose is usually short and spread; the mouth open, disclosing a thick-tipped tongue, the surface of which is marked (in older children at any rate) with transverse furrows. The palate is often high and narrow. The hair is straight, wiry, and with no tendency to curl. The bones of the limbs are usually small, and the ligaments lax; the fingers thick and short, the little finger especially so, with incurvation towards the ring finger. The skin is, as a rule, coarse, sometimes furfuraceous, and often the lips are fissured. Walking and talking are always late, and the voice is gruff and guttural. Mimicry is the prominent mental characteristic, and there is often an appreciation of rhythm, both in movement and in music. Tubercular disease is the usual termination of this type of cases. (e) Cretinoid cases {sporadic cretins) are perhaps, as a rule, hardly in the strict sense of the word congenital, for the symptoms de- noting cretinism do not come into prominence until after the first few months of infancy. Still, the arrest of development of the thyroid gland, upon which cretinism is known to depend, points to an antenatal originating cause, so as to justify this classification. The full develop- ment of the characteristic features of the sporadic cretinism is, however, gradual, and in the early stages there is a certain resem- blance to the mongoloid type above described.