MALARIA 122 When newly hatched, on account of their trans- parency and small size, they can only just be seen with the naked eye, but they grow rapidly and soon become darker in colour and more visible. The larvse of Culex swim about actively, coming to the surface of the water at short intervals to breathe. They feed greedily on any organic matter which may be present in the water. The respiratory tubes open into an elongated, dilated syphon tube situated at the caudal extremity, and the larvse when breathing hang from the surface of the water with their tails uppermost, and their bodies almost at right angles to the surface (Fig. 4). The length of the larval stage varies considerably according to circumstances. It is prolonged if the condi- tions be unfavourable for the larvae; if favourable, it is shorter. The larvae having moulted three or four times pass into the pupa or nymphal stage, usually in warm weather, within from six to eight days. The pupa resembles somewhat a note of interrogation in shape, the head and immature wings being doubled up under the thorax (Fig. 5). It is much less active than the Fig. 5.—Pupa of Culex. larvse, and when it rises to the surface it does so by means of a lashing up and down motion of the tail. It does not exhibit the eel-like motion of the larvae. It breathes by two trumpet-shaped respiratory tubes placed on either side of the thorax. These can be readily seen as the pupa floats on the water. After two or three days the pupal stage is terminated by the escape of the imago from its puparium or pupa case through a T-shaped opening on the dorsal surface. The newly-born mosquito balances itself on the puparium for a few moments in order that the chitinous covering of the wings may harden, and then it flies away. The imago, like that of other diptera, has a head, thorax, and abdomen, and its outer skeletal structure consists of chitinous material. The Culicidae are characterised by their well- developed and elongated jaws, which are specially adapted for piercing and sucking. The wings are scaly, and have four main nervures or ribs. Arising from the anterior aspect of the head are the oral appendages, which together form the proboscis or sucker. Placed on either side of the proboscis are the palpi and antennae. The proboscis is made up of a number of elements, the most massive and prominent of which is the labium. This consists of a thick, membranous, scaly sheath, which is concave on its upper surface, forming a deep groove in which the other oral elements lie. The labium is expanded at its free extremity into two olive-shaped bodies called labellae. The remaining parts of the proboscis consist of epipharynx or labrum, and hypopharynx, which, when approximated, form a closed tube up which the blood flows when the proboscis is in use. Besides these organs, and lying under them, there are two pairs of long slender lancets—the maxilla? and mandibles respectively. This description applies to the female only. The mouth organs of the male are rudimentary, and unadapted for piercing the skin. When the mosquito bites the soft membranous labium is forced back, forming a sort of loop. The piercing organs are thus exposed, and together with the epipharynx and hypopharynx enter the skin. The palpi are placed on either side of the proboscis. Their length and number of seg- ments form an important feature in distinguish- ing Culex from Anopheles. When the mosquito bites, the palpi are elevated in such a way that they do not interfere with haustellation. The antennae are made up of fourteen segments; in the male they are plumose, but in the female only a single whorl of short hairs is given off" at the base of each joint (see Figs. 13 and 14). The antennae are regarded as organs of hearing, and possibly of smell, the supposed auditory ganglion being situated in the proximal segment. The mosquito possesses two large compound eyes. Its vision, however, is by no means acute. Grassi believes that it is unable to dis- tinguish objects more than a few centimetres away. The sense of smell, and possibly the sense of taste, on the other hand, are much more highly developed. It can certainly scent its prey at a distance of several feet. The thorax consists of three segments—the prothorax, mesothorax, and metathorax re- spectively : the mesothorax being the largest and most prominent. The salivary glands are placed in the prothorax, one on either side. Each consists of three lobes, a middle and two lateral. The middle lobe is smaller, and the protoplasm of its cells is more finely granular and stains more deeply than that of the other lobes. This lobe was formerly believed to be