95 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF moreover, causes a negative pressure in the intrathoracic veins, which must cause a suction of lymph from the thoracic duct into the sub- clavian vein. The contractions of all the muscles of the body also press on the lymphatic vessels passing through them, and as there are valves in these vessels the lymph is forced always in the same direction. In amphibia, birds, and reptiles, though not in mammals, there are lymph hearts, muscular sacs which assist in lymph circulation. Their place is supplied in mammals, to a certain extent, by the muscular fibres which are found in the walls of the larger lymphatic vessels, while the flow of chyle through the lacteals is assisted by the contraction of the muscular fibres of the intestinal villi. It is quite certain, however, that not all the lymph which is poured out into the tissue spaces is passed on to the lymphatic vessels and thoracic duct; a very considerable amount of it is reabsorbed by the blood-vessels. In a resting limb, for instance, the nutrition of the muscles goes on without there being any lymph- flow at all from the main lymphatic trunk of the limb, and there are now many experiments on record proving that colouring matters, salts, etc. are absorbed from serous cavities and con- nective tissue spaces with much greater rapidity by the blood-vessels than by the lymphatics. For example, if methylene-blue is injected into the pleura, the dye appears in the urine within five minutes, while the lymph flowing from the thoracic duct shows no trace of it for another twenty minutes, or sometimes much longer. Further, the extreme rapidity with which effects follow on the hypodermic injection of drugs into connective tissue spaces in the arm, for example, could not be attained if the drug had to pass along the circuitous route of the lymphatics with their slow circulation. The process here is evidently one of diffusion be- tween the blood and the extra-vascular fluids, and the currents between the two will continue as long as any difference in composition exists between them. But this explanation will not help us if we consider the absorption of ordi- nary lymph or of dropsical fluids, that is to say, of fluids which are isotonic with and prac- tically the same as blood-plasma. Some light is thrown on the subject by bleeding experi- ments. If an animal be bled on one occasion to a very large amount, or be bled repeatedly to smaller amounts, it will be found that the last part of the blood collected in the first case and the blood obtained in the later bleedings in the second case become progressively more watery. A dilution of the serum takes place, so that it contains less solids, and is increased in amount relatively to the blood corpuscles. The fluid which passes thus into the blood is certainly derived from the tissue spaces and not from the lymph, for the process goes on in exactly the same way when the lymph-flow into the blood is stopped by tying the thoracic duct. Starling's experiment of sending defibrinated blood through the vessels of a healthy limb, and through those of one rendered artificially oedematous, and the fact that in the latter case the blood becomes more watery, also proves that the blood-vessels can take up isotonic solutions and dropsical fluids from the tissue spaces. Bleeding, however, means a diminution of intracapillary pressure, and this diminution is evidently associated with the re-entry of fluid into the blood-vessels, to make up for the volume which has been lost, just as increase of capillary pressure was shown to be one of the causes of increased lymph-transudation. The question comes at once to be asked—Is absorp- tion dependent on the same physical process as transudation 1 There seems little doubt that it is so in the case where the capillary pressure is lowered, as by bleeding, and where the initial extra vascular pressure is not unduly high ; but the case seems to be diff'erent under normal conditions, and where, as in accumulations of dropsical fluid, the extravascular tension is raised. Here, so long as the extravascular pressure is raised only in the region of the capillaries, a backward filtration can occur; but when the extravascular pressure is increased round the veins to a sufficient extent, that is to say, to a point above the pressure in the veins, it results in collapse of the veins, a rise of capillary pressure, a diminished flow of blood through the part, and backward filtration ceases to be possible. In this case, and probably to some extent in the other cases also, absorption into the blood depends on the high osmotic pressure of the proteids of the blood-plasma. These are very indiffusible, and will attract water from the other side of a permeable mem- brane with a force proportionate to the differ- ence in their amount on either side of the membrane. We know that the capillaries of the limbs are almost impermeable to proteids, and their lymph contains very little proteid. The proteids left in solution inside the capil- laries will exert an osmotic attraction on the water of the lymph. A rise in capillary pres- sure will increase the amount of lymph, and will cause it to be more dilute, so that there will be an increase in the force tending towards absorption; and thus in situations such as the limbs, where the capillaries are impermeable, temporary rises and falls in pressure will cause so nice a balance between transudation and absorption that there will be no diff"erence in the lymph-flow from the limb. In situations where the capillaries are very permeable, as in the liver, only a slight increase in capillary pressure will be required to cause transuda- tion, and as the transuded lymph is so rich in proteid, there will be but little tendency to reabsorption.