LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 36 Chart I. organs may be drawn upwards; the vertebral column may become twisted laterally. On percussion, there is more or less extensive dulness according to the distribution of the process. On auscultation, there may be diminu- tion of respiratory murmur, absence of accom- paniments, and reduced vocal resonance (the pleura is commonly thickened). Often enough, however, the breathing is definitely bronchial, accompaniments (rhonchi, crepi- tations) are pre- sent, and vocal resonance is in- creased. The other lung is generally more or less emphy- sematous. (e) Physical Signs of Miliary Tub ere ulosis. — These may be few and far from characteristic. Indeed, a most striking fact in relation to the condition is the disproportion be- tween physical signs and the gravity of the symptoms. Inspec- tion reveals marked dyspnoea—hurried, shallow respiration, with active alse nasi. On percussion little may be detected. Commonly there is hyper-resonance—perhaps tympanitic. This is frequently determined anteriorly. In other cases, patchy areas of dulness may be discovered. On auscultation, the rapid, shallow breathing will be again noted over the whole chest. The breath soimds are frequently marked by ac- companiments, especially rhonchi and bubbling or creaking crepitations; or the breath sounds are conspicuously feeble, or, again, harsh and even bronchial. Friction is sometimes detected. Along with signs of the more acute process, there may be evidence of an older localised affection, e.g. at one or other apex. Spirometry.—The vital capacity of tubercu- lous lungs is reduced. This is determined by reckoning the volume of air which, after forced inspiration, is expelled by forced expiration. It may be measured by means of Hutchinson's spirometer. The degree of reduction varies much in different instances and may amount to as much as 50 per cent of the normal capacity. Rontgen Bays.—Illumination by means of Rontgen rays is serviceable in diagnosis. The application of the rays is considered on p. 49. 3. Constitutional Symptoms These include— Pyrexia. — The temperature is extremely variable. For long periods the temperature (taken two, three, or four-hourly) may be found normal or subnormal, and this even when symptoms and physical signs suggest present activity (see Chart I.). At other times—it is not always evident why—the temperature may become elevated, the pyrexic wave assuming the remittent or intermittent type, less commonly the continued type (see Chart III.). Because -Showing uniform temperature of 97'-98'4° F. lasting for months in patient with abundant physical signs of tuberculous condensation and moisture on both sides (open-air treatment). of this variableness, which shows itself from hour to hour as well as from day to day, it is of importance that the temperature be taken both regularly and frequently. In all cases the temperature should be taken two or three times daily; in many instances it may be taken oftener with great advantage. It is not uncommon to find in patients who are doing well an uniform temperature of 97°- 98'4° F. without the slightest rise for months. This apparently subnormal wave is established commonly when patients are placed under the rational (open-air) line of treatment (Chart I.). Under such conditions, it is remarkable how rapidly the swinging pyrexic wave is replaced by the almost straight line. I have frequently had hourly observations made in such cases and found the uniform temperature undisturbed. In other cases the temperature shows a sub- febrile wave (see Chart II.). In the morning, and perhaps throughout the greater part of the day, the record is normal. Towards evening, however, or it may be in the afternoon—more rarely in the morning—the temperature may reach 99°-100-5° F. Such sub-febrile waves are common enough in subacute and chronic con- ditions, treated on protective lines, with in- sufficient aeration. Or the pyrexia may be more pronounced. A more or less continued elevation may be registered several degrees above the normal (see Chart III.). Still more frequently a re-