405 MIDWIVES astical rather than their obstetric duties, for in cases of emergency and in the absence of the priest the midwife might be required to baptise the new-born infant. There is an ancient injunction to the clergy by the Archbishop of York, which reads : "All curates must openly in the church teach and instruct the mydwiefes of the very words and form of baptisme to thentents that they may use them perfectly well and none oder." It is in this connection that the practice of the licensing of mid wives by bishops apparently had its origin. Here, at anyrate, is the oath administered by the Arch- bishop of Canterbury to Eleoner Pead in 1567 when he licensed her as a midwife : " I, Eleoner Pead, admitted to the office and occupation of a midwife, will faithfully and diligently exercise the said office according to such cunning and knowledge as God hath given me, and that I will be ready to help and aid as well poor as rich women being in labour and travail of child, and will always be ready both to poor and rich in exercising and executing of my said office. Also I will not permit or suffer that any woman being in labour or travail shall name any other to be the father of her child, than only he who is the right and true father thereof ; and that I will not suffer any other body's child to be set, brought, or laid before any woman delivered of child in the place of her natural child, so far forth as I can know or understand. Also I will not vise any kind of sorcery or incantation in the time of the travail of any woman; and that I will not destroy the child born of any woman, nor cut, nor pull off the head thereof, or otherwise dismember or hurt the same, or suffer it to be hurt or dismembered by any manner of way or means. Also that at the ministration of the sacrament of baptism in the time of necessity, I will use apt and accus- tomed words of the same sacrament—that is to say, these words following, or the like in effect: / christen thee in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and none other pro- fane words. And that in such time of necessity, in baptising any infant born, and pouring water upon the head of the said infant, I will use pure and clear water, and not any rose or damask water, or water made of any confection or mixture ; and that I will certify the curate of the parish church of every such baptising." At the Hampton Court Conference (1604), however, it was decided to limit the perform- ance of baptism to persons in orders, and after this date the midwives' oath was no doubt remodelled. The next legislation was to deal with their obstetric qualifications, but it was to be long delayed. It is interesting to find that near the close of the sixteenth century there was an agitation for the supervision by the bishops of the medical training of midwives. In Boorde's Brevyary of Health (quoted by Aveling, in his English Midivives, p. 14) there is the suggestion that "the Byshoppe, with the consent of a doctor of physick, ought to examine her (the midwife), and to instruct her in that thynge that she is ignorant; . . . for and this were used in Englonde there shulde not halfe so many women myscary, nor so many chyldren perish in every place in Englonde as there be. The Byshop ought to loke on this matter." In the early part of the seventeenth century Dr. Peter Chamberlen proposed " that some order may be settled by the State for the instruction and civil govern- ment of midwives," and, the State having failed to respond, Chamberlen's son tried him- self to get the project carried out some thirty years later (1646); but these obstetricians were far in advance of their age, and their attempts were futile. During the eighteenth century there was no legislation for midwives, but better books for their instruction began to appear; and the example of the immortal Harvey in interesting himself in the problems of parturition began to be followed by other scientific men with the result, as we have seen, that better-class obstetric practice began to pass into the hands of the medical profession. But the need for some plan of training and certify- ing midwifes was none the less clamant. The notorious Mrs. Cellier (of " meal-tub plot" fame) had a wonderful scheme (1687) for the establish- ment of a "corporation of skilful midwives," and a royal hospital with a principal physician or man-midwife " to examine all extraordinary accidents, and once a month at least read a publick lecture to the whole society of licensed midwives, who are all obliged to be present at it, if not employed in their practice"; but it was quite impracticable. Dr. Mawbray (1725) did much to improve the training and status of the midwife, and James Douglas (1736) proposed, in a more practical fashion than Mrs. Cellier had done, that an hospital be erected " for the reception of two or three hundred women who are big with child, that a proper number of midwomen be appointed to attend them," and that these midwomen should be obliged to attend courses of instruc- tion, should be afterwards examined, and receive a certificate if found to deserve it, etc. Similar propositions were made by Manningham (1739), Counsell (1752), Blunt (1793) and others (1795); but the State took no action. The result was that as the Church had ceased to license midwives, and as the medical faculty had not taken upon itself the duty of doing so, a large class of midwives were found in practice some of whom it is true had received training but many had not, and there was no way of distinguishing the trained from the untrained. At the beginning of the nineteenth centiiry the need for legislation was urgent, but it was not given effect to till the beginning of the twentieth century. In 1803 regulations for the