151 MALIGNANT DISEASE MBNT OP; Tumours of the Skin ; Urethra, Diseases op {Tumours, Maligimnt); Uterus, Malignant Tumours of ; Vagina, Disorders OP (Sarcoma, Carcinoma); X-Rays. Malig'nant Pustule (Cutaneous Anthrax). See also Anthrax. Definition.—A local lesion produced by the penetration of the anthrax bacillus or of its pores into the skin. This local affection may be followed or not by general infection (" Splenic Fever "). Historical.—Good descriptions of this disease have been given by various ancient writers, but it was not till 1769 that Fournier of Dijon recognised its relation to the handling of hair and wool from various animals. In 1864 and 1865 Davaine demonstrated the presence of the bacillus of anthrax in malignant pustules re- moved by excision. Since then good descrip- tions of this lesion and of its development have been given by Wagner, Koch (1876), Turner (1882), Cornil and Babes (1885), Straus (1887), etc. Etiology.—The bacillus generally invades the skin through a wound, sometimes very slight; the wound may be infected at the time it is produced, or a simple wound may afterwards become infected by coming in contact with products containing the bacillus. The persons most liable to infection are :— 1. Those coming frequently in contact with animals liable to anthrax: drovers, shepherds, farmers, farriers, veterinary surgeons, etc., who are exposed to the bites or stings of insects that may have sucked the blood of living—or rested on the blood or flesh of dead—animals affected with anthrax. The bite of a dog which had recently fed on such a carcase has been known to communicate the disease. 2. Persons who have to handle the carcases of animals (or more rarely the bodies of patients that have died of splenic fever), knackers, butchers, pathologists, etc. In such cases the skin of the hands, arms, face, neck, shoulders, and back is most liable to infection. 3. Those who handle various animal products, such as offal, skins, hoofs, horns, hair, wool, etc., among whom may be mentioned tanners, fell- mongers, wool and hair workers, rag-sorters, etc. The products which communicate the disease in such cases are usually contaminated with blood containing the anthrax bacillus. This organism, in the presence of air and moisture, and at summer's temperature, rapidly produces spores which adhere to the soiled articles. As those spores are very resisting, infection may be carried to considerable distances and after long intervals of time. Description of the Malignant Pustule.—There is usually only one spot infected, but cases may occur in which two or even more malignant pustules develop simultaneously. For from one to three days after inoculation there is usually no other evidence of danger than the wound, often insignificant, through which the microbe has penetrated. (Incubation period.) Then in the space of twenty-four to thirty hours (second period) a small pimple rapidly followed by a vesicle is formed. The vesicle is filled with clear or blood-stained brownish fluid, in which bacilli are usually found in large numbers; they are also found penetrating into the surrounding epithelium and into the sub- jacent swollen papillae of the true skin. The formation of this vesicle is accompanied by a pricking or itching sensation; there may be very little local or general disturbance. During the third stage, which usually lasts only one or two days, and may even be shorter, marked induration of the tissues under the vesicle becomes manifest. The patch of induration is flattened and of a livid colour; it indicates the beginning of necrosis. Around the livid patch an oedematous swelling appears, forming a kind of pale or congested areola, the characters of which have been well described by Chaussier. At the margin of this swollen ring secondary vesicles may form, and these sometimes run more or less completely together. The central vesicle collapses, and is replaced by a brownish, or nearly black eschar composed of blood-stained tissues which have undergone necrosis under the influence of the bacilli, which may sometimes be clearly recognised in this crust-like mass. At this stage, however, the bacillus is generally most abundant at the margin of the eschar and in the adjacent lymphatic spaces. After this the dark slough increases more or less rapidly in size, its advancing margin being preceded by a zone of congestion and oedema, which may be comparatively limited or involve an extensive surface. At this stage (fourth stage), it is frequently difficult to demonstrate the presence of the bacillus anthracis in the necrosed or diseased tissues, which have become invaded by common organisms of putrefaction and pyogenic bacteria. A considerable degree of inflammatory re- action, and suppuration when they occur, indi- cate the action of the pyogenic and other microbes. The actual size of the so-called " pustule " is variable; the danger to life is not proportional to the size of the lesion. Human tissues offer considerable resistance to invasion by the anthrax bacillus, so that in many cases tlie infection remains local and does not seriously threaten life. Penetration of the bacilli into the blood-stream may, however, occur at any time and give rise to the very fatal anthrax septicaemia (anthracaemia). Dr. Hamer has collected a number of cases