291 MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, LAW AS TO polis, and districts where it has been adopted by the local sanitary authority. Where it is in force, every medical practitioner attending on or called in to visit a patient suffering from an infectious disease—not being an inmate of a hospital for infectious cases—" shall forthwith, on becoming aware that the patient is suffering from an infectious disease, send to the medical officer of health of the district a certificate stating the name of the patient, the situation of the building," etc., where he is, and the infectious disease from which, in his opinion, the patient is suffering (s. 3). He is entitled to a small fee for every certificate duly sent in by him. MediCO-a—in compound words medico- means relating to medicine, e.g. medico-legal (relating to medicine and law), etc. MediCUS.—A physician or a surgeon. Medio-.—In compound words medio- means relating to the median plane, e.g. mediocarpal, mediofrontal, mediotarsal, etc. Mediterranean Fever. See Un- DULANT Fever. Mediterranean Sea. See Thera- peutics, Health Resorts {Riviera and other Mediterranean Resorts). Medium.—That by means of which any- thing acts, or in which it grows; so, specially, a substance or soil in which micro-organisms multiply. See Micro-Organisms ; Post-mortem Methods {Bacteriological Investigation). Medi US.—The middle finger. Medulla.—Literally, the marrow or pith, e.g. the medulla or central part of the kidney, the marrow of a long bone or of a nerve-fibre, etc. Medulla Oblongata.—The portion of the brain which is immediately continuous with the upper part of the spinal cord. See Brain, Physiology of {Anatomical); Brain, Tumours of ; Physiology, Nervous System {Medulla Oblongata). Medulla Ossium Rubra. —Red bone-marrow as used in pernicious anaemia, etc. Medullary. —Relating to the marrow or spinal cord, or resembling the medulla in appearance {e.g. medullary cancer). Medulla Spinalis.—The spinal cord. See Physiology, Nervous System {Spinal Cord); Spinal Cord. Med UHated. — Furnished with medulla or supplied with a medullary or myelin sheath, e.g. nerve-fibres; myelinated. Meg^a- or Megfalo-.—In compound words mega- or megalo (Gr ix.iya.%, great) signi- fies large—e.g. megalgia, severe pain; megalo- cytosis, the presence of large red cells in the blood ; megaloglossia, macrogiossia, etc. Meg^alobiastS. — Large nucleated red blood corpuscles; they are found in the bone- marrow of the foetus, but not in the normal blood or marrow of the adult; they reappear in anaemias,and in the conditions in which the blood- forming organs have reverted to a foetal type. See Blood {Corpuscular Elements, Megalohlasts). Meg'alOCardia.—Enlargement of the heart; cor hovinum. Meg'alOCephaly.—Abnormal enlarge- ment of file head, and, specially, leontiasis ossea {q.v.). Megi'alocolon or Meg^acolon.— Enlargement of the diameter of the colon with thickening of the wall, sometimes congenital. MegalOCOrnea.—Kerato-globus. See Cornea {Conical Cornea). Megl'alOCyte.—-A greatly enlarged red blood corpuscle (9 to 20 fi in diameter), contain- ing an increased or a diminished amount of haemoglobin—met with in anaemias, pernicious or simple {megalocytosis); a macrocyte. See Anemia, Pernicious {Stained Films). Meg^alodactyly.—Enlargement of one or more digits. See Macrodactyly. Meg^alOgl'astr 1 a.—Simple enlargement of the stomach ; if actual dilatation be present the name gast7-ectasis is used. Megl'alOgflOSSia. See Macroglossia. Meg^alomania. — The delirium of grandeur met with in general paralysis of the insane, or, more frequently, a form of mono- mania, without paralysis, in which the delirium or exaltation of grandeur is the leading symptom. See General Paralysis {Symptoms, Stadium Acutum); Paranoia {Synonyms). Meg'alomelia.—A teratological state in which the limbs are abnormally large. Megalophthalmos.—A condition of unnatural enlargement of the eyeballs. See Microphthalmos. Megl'alopsia.—A visual disturbance in which objects are seen larger than the reality; sometimes met with in hysteria {megalopsia hysterica). See Hysteria {Sensory Disorders). Meg;'astria. See Megalogastria ; In- digestion {Special Forms, Dilatation of the Stomach). Meg^rim.—A form of paroxysmal head- ache, usually unilateral, accompanied by nausea,