252 MEDICINE, FORENSIC signs of bleeding; after a time they become covered with a brown scab, around which there is some redness and swelling. After death, abrasion of the cuticle will give rise to a brown parchment-like area, very similar to an injiiry produced during life, but differing from the latter inasmuch as it shows no signs of bleed- ing or vital reaction. Unless care is used, how- ever, such post-mortem abrasions may easily be attributed to violence exerted during life. Bruises and Coritusions.—A bruise is an extravasation of blood into the skin or other structures, caused by violence. The term con- tusion includes bruising, but implies more extensive injury to the soft structures than mere rupture of blood-vessels. A bruise does not necessarily appear as a result of violence, even of a severe nature. It is very common to see bodies which have fallen from a height, and which have sustained fatal internal injuries, with no external signs of bruising—this may be accounted for by the fact of death having occurred immediately ; but in other cases where death is delayed, or recovery takes place, no bruising may appear, as for example in violence exerted on the abdomen. A man who jumped over a window and fell thirty-seven feet, was taken to the hospital, examined and dismissed, as he showed no signs of injury. On returning home, three hours afterwards, he went to his room and cut his throat. At the post-mortem, there was found fracture of several ribs, rupture of the liver, and other severe internal injuries. Bruises are more easily produced on delicate persons, women and children, than in those whose tissues are firm and healthy. Very slight force may cause a brviise in a delicate person, or in situations where the textures are loose and vascular, such as the scrotum. In certain diseases—scurvy, purpura, haemophilia —extravasations of blood may occur spon- taneously ; and even in healthy, strong persons haemorrhages may occur from a sudden strain or exertion apart from direct violence, e.g. haemorrhages under the conjunctiva in whooping- cough. A bruise generally appears at the seat of injury, and if superficial, a purplish discolora- tion develops in the course of a short time; deeper-seated bruises take longer to show on the surface, and freqviently, if situated in the upper or lower limbs, the extravasated l:)lood gravitates in the tissues and shows externally at a point considerably removed from that which received the violence. A common ex- ample of this may frequently be seen in blows delivered on the forehead or eyebrow, causing a deep discoloration of both eyes under the lower lid. The size of a bruise is not always an index to the degree of violence used, since the amount of extravasation depends, to a great extent, upon the looseness and vascularity of the tissues and the constitution of the individual. The age of a bruise may be judged by the change in colour which the extravasated blood undergoes, due to alteration in the blood pig- ments. These changes commence at the peri- phery where the layer of blood is thinnest, and consists in a gradual passing from purple to brown and finally lemon colour. The more superficial the bruise, the quicker this change in colour takes place, i.e. in the course of two or three days ; but in deep-seated extravasations no colour-transformation occurs at all. In ecchymosis under the conjunctiva, the haemoglobin is kept oxygenated by the air, and remains of a bright scarlet colour until the blood becomes gradually absorbed. Incised ivounds are produced by cutting instruments, and rule, linear, their length being greater than the depth. The edges are regular, and the wound gapes more or less, according to its position on the body and the structures injured. Irregularity of the edges may be produced by a very blunt knife, or from folds of skin having been cut through. All apparently incised wounds are not produced by sharp cutting instruments. A blow on the scalp with a blunt, rounded or flat instrument, or a fall upon hard ground, may produce a wound similar to an incision, due to a splitting of the scalp at the seat of injury. Careful observation will enable the distinction to be made, owing to the latter form of wound fre- quently exhibiting some irregularity of the edges and isolated bands of undivided tissue bridging across the two sides of the wound. Wherever soft tissues are situated immediately over bone, e.g. the scalp, face, shin or external genital organs of the female, any blunt rounded weapon or violence applied is liable to produce an injury similar to an incised wound. In the case of a woman, a kick from behind on the private parts, even through the clothes, has frequently caused a cut on the inner surface of the labium, which has been mistaken for a wound produced by a cutting weapon intro- duced into the vulvae. Punctured wounds, stabs, are characterised by their depth greatly exceeding the size of the surface wound. They may be caused by sharp- pointed weapons, by blunt conical instruments (such as a poker), or by pieces of glass, crockery, etc. In the case of a puncture cavised by a bhmt weapon, such as a poker, the external wound on the skin does not correspond in shape with the weapon as is the case in stabs with sharp-pointed weapons. The skin splits at the point where the instrument penetrates, and a slit-like wound is the result, with sharp-angled ends, and hence the injury is liable to be attributed to the \xse of a sharp weapon. The length of the slit will be proportional to the circumference of the penetrating instrument, but the wound often appears comparatively small owing to stretching