230 MECONINE ing in opium ; others are meconidine (CjjHjgNO^) and meconoisin (CgHjyOg). See Opium. Meconium.—The dark green, viscid, faecal discharges of the new-born infant (Lat. meconium, poppy-juice). See Children, Clini- cal Examination of {Examination of Foices) ; FiECES ; F(ETUS AND OvUM, DEVELOPMENT OF {Foetal Excretory Functions, Meconium) ; New- born Infant {Physiological Peculiarities). Medewi. See Balneology {Sweden). Meclia,Cl.—Toward the middle line. Media,!!.—Situated in or relating to the middle line, e.g. of the body; mesial. See Nerves, Peripheral {Neuritis, Median Nerve); Palate {Malformations, Hare-Lip, Median). MediastinitiS. >S'eeMediastinum {Acute Mediastiiiitis). Mediastino - Pericarditis. See Mediastinum {Alediastiidtis). Mediastinum, Tiie. Anatomy op Mediastinum . . . 230 Mediastinal Emphysema . . . 230 Acute Mediastinitis and Mediastinal Abscess .... .231 Chronic Mediastinitis . . . .231 Mediastinal and other Intrathoracic Growths 233 Etiology 233 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . 234 Symptoms ..... 235 Physical Signs. . . . .236 Diagnosis . . . . .237 Prognosis . . . . .238 Treatment 238 Notes on Certain Tumours . . . 239 Tubercidous Glands . . . .239 Gimima of the Lung . . . .239 Tumour of Thyroid . . . .239 TihmouT of Thymus . . . .239 Cysts: Dermoid, Congenital, Hydatid 240 Fibroma awl other Tumours . . 240 Actinomycosis ..... 240 Hemorrhage into Mediastinum . . 240 See also Chest-Wall, Affections of {Pain); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Physical Signs, Percussioii); Heart, Surgery of ; Lungs, Abscess of {Mediastinal Abscess); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Glands, Mediasti^ial); Pericardium, Diseases of ; Pulse {Pulsus Paradoxus, Causes); Thymus Gland. The mediastinum is the space which is left in the median line of the chest by the non- approximation of the two pleurae. It is sub- divided into an anterior and a posterior medi- astinum, which are respectively in front and behind the heart, and a middle mediastinum which contains the heart. The anterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the back of the sternum, behind by the pericardium, and by the pleural sacs on each side. It contains the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and triangvilaris sterni muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein, the internal mam- mary vessels of the left side, a few lymphatic vessels, and some areolar tissue. The middle mediastinum is the broadest part of the interpleural space. It contains the heart, enclosed in the pericardium, and the vessels connected with it, the roots of the lungs, the phrenic nerves, and some lymphatic glands. The posterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the pericardium and roots of the lungs, behind by the spinal cohimn, and its lateral boundaries are the pleural sacs. It contains the third part of the arch of the aorta, the descending aorta, oesophagus, pneumogastric nerves, thoracic duct, azygos veins, and lym- phatic glands. Mediastinal Emphysema.—The presence of air in the cellular tissue of the mediastinum. Emphysema of the anterior mediastinum is a frequent occurrence in fatal cases of trache- otomy, and is occasionally associated with pneumothorax, to which it stands in causal relation. It may also result from perforation of the trachea or bronchi, or from conditions which give rise to a communication between the lung and the mediastinum, or from rupture of the oesophagus. Emphysema of the anterior mediastinum may or may not be associated with emphysema of the neck; the former is due to the diminished pressure in the thorax during inspiration, while the latter is produced during expiration. In mediastinal emphysema the air passes down in the space beneath the deep cervical fascia. Its production is favoured by division of the deep cervical fascia, obstruction to the air-passages, and inspiratory efforts. The deep cervical fascia should not be divided lower than is absolutely necessary. The period of danger during tracheotomy is the interval between the division of the deep cervical fascia and the intro- duction of the tube into the trachea. Should artificial respiration be necessary the tissiies should be kept in apposition to the trachea. The symptom of mediastinal emphysema is a return of dyspnoea after tracheotomy, in the absence of evidence of the cannula or trachea being blocked by false membrane. On percus- sion the chest will be found unduly resonant. The existence of subcutaneous emphysema of the neck would be another point in favour of the diagnosis. The only treatment likely to be of avail is the inhalation of oxygen in order to diminish the respiratory efforts.