306 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM insanity (especially general paralysis and senile insanity). We shall see later that he believes that these changes play an essential and primary part in the pathology of so-called hematoma of the dura mater. But, further, he regards these changes as constituting the chief cause of ob- struction to the outflow of cerebro-spinal fluid, which he considers a secondary factor of the greatest importance in the causation of mental disease—the result being not only pathological increase of general intracranial pressure, with the consequent disturbance of the cerebral functions, but also, more serious still, stagnation of the cerebro-spinal fluid, which becomes overcharged with the eff'ete products of metabolism of the cerebral tissues (the cerebro-spinal fluid being regarded as simply the lymph of the brain) and thus a chronic condition of cerebral auto-intoxi- cation is added to and aggravates the primary disease. Two sorts of nerve fibres are found in the dura—(1) non-medullated, vaso-motor fibres, derived from the sympathetic and accompanying the meningeal arteries; and (2) meduUated, sensory fibres, forming irregular plexuses through the whole dura; to these last, no doubt, is due the local head pain, which forms such a prominent feature in many meningeal lesions, e.g. tumours, inflammations. The subdural space probably contains very little fluid intra vitam in normal conditions. The arachnoid and pia mater are, as we have seen, usually described as two distinct mem- branes, composed of dense fibrous tissue—the outer or arachnoid being non-vascular and bridg- ing over the sulci, while the inner or pia mater is vascular and dips down into the sulci, closely covering the whole surface of the brain ; between the two is a space known on this view as the subarachnoid space, traversed by numerous fibrous trabeculse. It is certainly better to speak, not of one subarachnoid space, but of subarachnoid spaces which are present in large numbers, varying greatly in size and communi- cating with each othei. The tendency of writers {cf. Ford Robertson and Middlemass) now is to describe the arachnoid and pia mater as one and the same structure, lined on the outer surface by a layer of endothelium and composed essentially of white fibrous tissue, which is disposed in bundles of trabeculse, thus forming a network, whose meshes constitute spaces freely communicating with each other. These spaces contain cerebro-spinal fluid and are larger and more numerous in the centre of the membrane ; hence its apparent division into two parts, an outer (arachnoid) and an inner (pia mater). The arachnoid and pia mater, in any case, are inseparable pathologically, as they always suffer together in disease, and therefore we may speak of the conjoined structure as the "pia arachnoid." We shall retain the old name " subarachnoid " for the spaces and fluid. Some of the subarachnoid spaces, especially at the base of the brain, are so large as to constitute so-called " cisterns." One of these, known as the great cerehello-medullary cistern or " the posterior subarachnoid space " (Lees and Barlow), bridging over the interval between the medulla and cerebellum, is of special import- ance, as the openings between it and the fourth ventricle are the only means of communication which the ventricular system of the brain has with the subarachnoid spaces of the brain and cord. These openings are three in number—a fairly large one, the foramen of Magendie, in the middle line at the lowest part of the fourth ventricle, and two lateral openings, the foramina of Luschka, one on either side, close to the origin of the vagus nerve. The pial arteries and veins lie chiefly in or near the subarachnoid spaces. With the exception of the perforating arteries at the base of the brain, all the arteries to the brain run for a longer or shorter course in the pia arachnoid as pial arteries, whence branches pass into the brain at right angles to the surface of the convolutions. The pial veins are of remarkably large calibre and have very thin, non-muscular walls. Capil- laries are usually described in the pia arachnoid, but Ford Robertson holds that they are virtu- ally absent, the pia arachnoid being nourished not by capillaries of its own, but by the cerebro- spinal fluid which is conveyed to it from the lymph-spaces of the brain, by way of lymph- channels in the adventitia of the larger intra- cerebral vessels; the absence of capillaries would prevent short cutting of the blood-supply to the brain. With regard to nerves, the researches of Morison, Obersteiner, Gulland, and others, have now conclusively proved the existence of nerve- fibres in the walls of the pial arterioles; but proof is yet wanting that they occur in the walls of intracerebral arterioles, and despite much laborious and careful observation and ex- perimentation, the existence of a cerebral vaso- motor mechanism cannot yet be considered as proved. The pia mater, besides penetrating into the sulci of the brain, sends highly vascular processes into the ventricles. One of these, the velum interpositum, passes through the transverse fissure of the cerebrum, beneath the corpus callosum and above the corpora quadrigemina, pineal gland and optic thalami, bridging over the third ventricle and carrying the vascular fringes which are known as the choroid plexuses of the third and lateral ventricles. The venous blood from these is returned by veins, which run backwards in the velum interpositum and unite posteriorly into the vein (or veins) of Galen, opening into the straight sinus. A similar process of the pia passes into the fourth ventricle between the ventral surface of the cere- bellum and the dorsal surface of the medulla,