482 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE disease has followed on the eating of stale crabs, and also of fish in poor condition. The sug- gestion that the condition is due to a gregarine is based on the occurrence in the lower animals of myositis due to a protozoon, but such has not been proved to be present in man. The disease has occurred in the course of diabetes, phthisis, tuberculous disease of the intestine, and after injury to the tongue. The disease is not contagious. Age and Sex. — Of 11 cases collected by Pfeiffer, 4 were in women, 7 in men. The youngest case occurred in a patient aged seven- teen, and the oldest in a man aged seventy. Symptoms.—The disease is characterised by swelling of the extremities, due to an inflamma- tory oedema of the subcutaneous tissue and muscles, attended by acute pain and rigidity of the muscles, great tenderness on pressure, and an erythematous rash resembling erysipelas situated over the affected parts. The onset of the disease is gradual, with malaise, weakness, loss of appetite, headache, and sometimes vomiting. There is usually a moderate rise of temperature, and the local symptoms manifest themselves by acute pain of a cramp-like character and tenderness, beginning usually in the legs and arms. Shortly after the tempera- ture begins to rise swelling of the skin and subcutaneous tissue appears. This swelling starts usually in the limbs, forming a very solid cedema which does not readily pit on pressure. At a later stage the oedema spreads to the face and eyelids. The muscular pain is intense, and is increased by the slightest movement. The spleen sometimes becomes enlarged, and the patient sweats excessively. At the commence- ment of the illness the pain is not generally so severe that the limbs cannot be moved; later, however, the least movement causes so much pain that the patient lies helpless in bed. Other muscles of the body may become affected, the diaphragm, the intercostals, and the muscles of deglutition, so that there is great difficulty in speaking and swallowing. The muscles of the eye and tongue are also sometimes affected. Sensation is perfectly normal, and the nerves are not tender on pressure. The joints are un- affected. The knee-jerks are generally present, though the swollen condition of the limb and the pain caused by percussion may give rise to some difficulty in obtaining them. The electrical reactions in the earlier stage of the disease have been found to be normal, while in the later stages alteration has been present. The urine is generally normal, but it may con- tain some albumin. The course of the disease tends in the slighter cases to recovery after a duration of some weeks, although occasionally recovery is much more rapid. In the severer forms convalescence is very protracted, atrophy of the muscles following the subsidence of inflammation, and pigment changes occurring in the skin. In the severest cases death takes place from affection of the respiratory muscles, or from secondary affection of the lungs, bronchitis, or pneumonia. Diagnosis.—The disease as above described has certain definite features—a gradual onset attended by inflammatory swelling of the muscles, together with redness and swelling of the skin and subcutaneous tissue situated over the involved muscles, extreme tenderness with- out loss of sensation, the joints being unaffected. Such symptoms' form a clinical picture which renders the diagnosis one of no great difficulty in typical cases. The symptoms resemble those produced by trichina in some points, and espe- cially the swelling of the face and eyelids. This symptom, however, in trichina comes on at an earlier period, and the swelling of the face and eyelids is an early symptom, while in polymyo- sitis it is a late manifestation. The discovery of the trichina in the motions or in an excised portion of the muscle confirms the diagnosis. From polyneuritis the disease is distinguished by the more marked paralysis, the ansesthesia, the early and more rapid atrophy, the loss ofi knee-jerk, and the absence of the characteristic skin-affection in that disease. Morbid Anatomy.—The subcutaneous tissue is infiltrated with a yellowish serous fluid form- ing the hard oedema. Almost any muscle of the body may be affected, but the masseter and ocular muscles usually escape. The muscle itself shows widespread alteration. It is usually of a dirty yellowish-white colour, in which brownish-red patches appear. Haemorrhages can be seen in the muscle, which is soft and friable. The microscopical examination shows both a parenchymatous and an interstitial in- flammatory condition which may be either focal or diffuse. The muscle fibres are swollen and granular, and for the most part have lost their striation ; hyaline degeneration and vacuolation is often present, but fatty degeneration does not occur. Increase of round cells between the fibres is always present, and haemorrhages can be seen in these situations. It is generally con- sidered that the disease is primarily an affection of the connective tissue, and that the muscle fibres become affected secondarily. Polymyositis Hcemorr-hagica.—Of this variety of polymyositis comparatively few cases have been described; the symptoms and the patho- logical conditions are so distinct from dermato- myositis that it deserves separate mention. Etiology.—As with dermato-myositis so with hsemorrhagic myositis, the cause is obscure. Some cases have followed on acute throat in- fection, but in other cases no such definite preceding condition has occurred. Symptom.s.—The onset of the disease may be attended with moderate rise of temperature and with localised pain in the muscles, generally the I calf or the thigh. The muscle is swollen, and