290 MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, LAW AS TO century. The Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, and most of the other bodies able to confer medical degrees, were averse to the admission of women to practise, but the Society of Apothecaries were willing to confer the right so far as they could legally do so. Whether they could, was considered doubtful. The doubt was, however, resolved, as far as they were con- cerned, in the year 1874 by the Apothecaries Act (37 & 38 Vict. c. 34, s. 5), which declares that "nothing in this Act shall deprive the society of such right as they now have, or relieve from any existing obligation, to admit women to the examinations required for certificates to practise as apothecaries," or to enter on their list of licentiates women who shall have satis- factorily passed such examinations. Similar powers to examine and admit women to practise were given in the following year to the College of Surgeons of England (38 & 39 Vict. c. 43, s. 2). And in 1876 it was enacted that the powers of every body entitled to grant qualifications for registration should extend to granting such qualifications " to all persons without distinction of sex " (39 &. 40 Vict. c. 41, s. 1). The exercise of the powers so given was not, however, made compulsory, and women were not given any right to take part in the government, manage- ment, or proceedings of the universities or corporations mentioned in the Medical Act, 1858. The Act of 1886 made no further altera- tion in this respect. Dentists.—Dentists were not legally recog- nised as a separate profession till the year 1878, but at best were licensed by the College of Surgeons, though many of them had no degree at all. By an Act of that year (41 & 42 Vict, c. 33) the Medical Council were entrusted with the duty of keeping a register of persons entitled to practise as dentists, and have with respect to it powers similar to those they have under the Medical Acts with respect to the medical register. This Act was in some respects altered and amended by the Medical Act 1886. Liability fob Negligence.—From the fact of medical attendance on a patient a contract of employment is presumed, and the practitioner— like other parties to a contract—may be liable for breach of it. From publicly professing any art there is an implied warranty that the person so professing is of skill reasonably competent for the task he undertakes (Harmer v. Cornelius, 1858, 5 C. B. N. S. 236). On this principle a medical practitioner is responsible in damages to his patient for gross negligence and want of skill in his treatment of him (Scare v. Prentice, 1807, 8 East, 352). But such negligence is often difficult to prove; and actions alleging it against medical practitioners are rarely successful. The mere fact that the treatment has not resulted in a cure is no proof of negli- gence ; and the opinion of experts that it was unskilful is generally answered by that of other experts who testify favourably to the course pursued. If the person who attends the patient should be unqualified, he is, like the qualified man, liable for his conduct, and equally bound to bring conapetent skill to the performance of the duty which he has undertaken, and liable to an action for negligence if he fails to do so (Huddoch V. Lozve, 1865, 4 F. & F. 519 ; Jones V. Fay, 1865, 4 F. & F. 525). The only difference between his case and that of the qualified man consists in this, that a Court or jury is much more likely to find that the treat- ment of which complaint is made was unskilful, and the plaintiff can therefore bring his action with a better chance of success. Criminal Responsibility.—From the nature of the cases to which their skill is directed, the medical profession are exposed to a special re- sponsibility from which the members of other professions are, as a rule, exempt. It is the legal duty of every person who undertakes to ad- minister medical or surgical treatment, or to do any other lawful act of a dangerous character, requiring special knowledge, skill, attention or caution, to employ in doing it a common amount of such knowledge, skill, attention, and caution (Stephen, Big. of Crim. Law, 217). If it can be shown that a qualified, or unqualified, practi- tioner has caused the death of his patient, through the lack of such knowledge, skill, attention, or caution, he may be convicted of manslaughter (B. v. Long, 1830, 4 Car. & P. 398). But evidence of negligence, which would be sufficient to be left to a jury in a civil action, is not necessarily suflficient to justify a conviction on a criminal charge. It should be shown that the accused acted recklessly, or with a criminal intent, or with such gross negligence as to come within the meaning of the word " felonious" (E. V. Bllis, 1834, 2 Car. & Kir. 470 ; i?. v. Webb, 1834; 1 Moo. & R. 405; K v. Makes, 1866, 4 F. & F. 920). Pharmacopceia. — The Council were also directed (Act of 1858, s. 54) to cause to be published, and from time to time republished and amended, a book containing a list of medicines and compounds, and the manner of preparing them, together with the true weights and measures by which they are to be prepared and mixed, and containing such other matter and things relating thereto as they should think fit, to be called the British Pharmacopoeia. By a subsequent Act of 1862 (25 & 26 Vict. c. 91), the exclusive right of publishing the Pharma- copoeia was vested in the General Council, and similar but diff'erent pharmacopoeias previously published by the Colleges of Physicians in England, Scotland, and Ireland were superseded. Notification op Disease. — The Infectious Diseases Notification Act, 1889 (52 <fe 53 Vict, c. 72), made general throughout the country provisions which previously had been adopted in various local Acts. It is in force in the Metro-