MYIASIS 506 the stomach has been successfully employed in recent years. Causes of Error in Diag7Losis.—Many of the older accounts of myiasis intestinalis are open to doubt on account of the credulity of the naturalists of the time. Even most cautious physicians have been deceived by the ingenuity of hysterical patients who have continued to swallow larvfe or insects in order to produce an apparent illness. When the observation is made by the patient error is very liable to occur. Larvae supposed to have been voided are fre- quently discovered to have been deposited on the faeces after evacuation, or to have been already present in the chamber used. Many substances have been mistaken for new species of endoparasites, and have even received specific names. These have turned out to be portions of vegetable fibre or elastic tissue when subjected to a microscopical examination. External Myiasis. — It is convenient to consider three groups of cases: (1) Cutaneous myiasis; (2) myiasis vulnerum; (3) myiasis narium, conjunctivae, etc. 1. Cutaneous Myiasis.—The eggs of already- hatched larvae are laid on the skin, or in exposed wounds, ulcers, and sinuses, and in the dis- charges which may accompany diseases of the nose, ear, or eye. The larvae live and develop in these situations. If the eggs have been laid on the skin the larva when hatched penetrates the integument, and, living subcutaneously, produces at first more or less irritation, then a suppurating tumour or boil in which the still living larva may be found, or from which it escapes by movements of its body, further development taking place outside its host. In Europe the larva of the ox bot-fly or " warble- fly " {Ilypoderma bovis) is occasionally found under the skin of those engaged in tending cattle; cutaneous myiasis has also been traced to the bot-fly of the roe-deer and red-deer {H. diana). But such cases occur more frequently in America and in tropical climates, where, besides the above-named, larvae of several species of the genvis Dermatobia have in numerous instances been taken from suppurating swellings under the skin. In some localities the maggot of Dermatobia is known as Ver Macaque. In South and East Africa the larvae of Ochromyia (Ver de Cayor) cause at times crops of boils nearly covering the body. Natives are probably immune. A species of the ffistridae ((Estrus hominis) is said to have been differenti- ated peculiar to man, as CEstrus bovis is peculiar to the ox; but this is extremely doubtful. Treatment of these conditions consists in squeezing out the larvae, or by their removal with forceps, and healing follows rapidly with ordinary antiseptic measures. 2. Myiasis Vulnerum.—When eggs or larvae have been deposited in wounds or ulcers, or in any of the external openings of the body, the case may become much more grave and difficult to deal with. In all probability some diseased, or at least foul-smelling condition of the part, is necessary to attract the female fly. These cases occur in the breeding-time of the flies in question, i.e. in summer and autumn, and it is generally found that the patient has been in- fected while sleeping out of doors. A wound becomes "living," as it is termed, provided that the female of some species of blow-fly (blue- bottle), or flesh-fly, has gained access to it for the very short space of time required to deposit her brood. The appearance of such a wound has been described by Summa:— " To the naked eye such wounds appear as if beset with headless nails, which rise and fall with the extension and contraction of the animals while sucking. When the position of the larvae is superficial we distinctly see their white bodies; the head sits with its booklets in the bottom of the wound, which usually secretes no pus, but only a bloody-watery fluid, and has a bluish-pale and, after the removal of the animals, a spongy appearance. The black hinder parts and the respiratory orifices are directed outwards." Where wounds thus infected are neglected death may take place, but not before a horrible condition has been reached. Even in this country death has occurred from an invasion of maggots,^ and a similar case was recorded in Paris in the year 1826. The end of the Emperor Galerius ^ and of Herod the Great and others, 1 "On Thursday, 25th June, died at Asbornby, Lines., John fage, a pauper, under circumstances truly singular. This man used to prefer to tramp the country rather than to stay in the parish workhouse, and subsisted on the pittance he obtained from door to door. He usually received bread and meat, and it was bis custom to deposit what he had not eaten between his shirt and skin. One day when he had a considerable portion of this provision in store he laid himself down in a field, and the day being very hot, the meat speedily became putrid, and was of course struck by the Hies. These not only pro- ceeded to devour the inanimate pieces of tlesh, but also literally to prey upon the living substance, and when the wretched man was accidentally found he was so eaten by the maggots that his death seemed inevitable, and, in fact, the man survived the operation of dressing his- wounds but a few hours." The date of this remarkable occurrence is not given, but Kirby adds: " In passing through this parish, in the spring of 1814, I inquired of the mail coachman whether he had heard of this story, and he said the fact was well known " (Kirby and Spence, Introduction to Entomology). A similar story is told by M. Aristide Roger of the death of the Parisian chiffonnier who having got drunk was found in a ditch outside the parish, still living, but with his features completely destroyed by the multitudes of blow-fly grubs feeding on him. In both these cases there were, no doubt, a number of sores, large or small, to permit entrance of the maggots, which could not otherwise penetrate the integument. ^ " His <leath was occasioned by a very painful and lingering disease. His body, swelled, by an intemperate course of life, to an unwieldy corpulence, was covered with ulcers and devoured by innumerable swarms of I those insects, which have given their name to a most I loathsome disease " (Gibbon, Roman Empire).