552 NEPHEITIS of high tension as an indication of favourable prognosis. He considers that the imperfect development of blood pressure is not to be regarded as the cause of slow recovery or of the complications observed in the course of the disease, but that it reveals the constitu- tional weakness to which these complications are attributed, and it probably shows that the patient is made of poor stuff. It is further of interest, in connection with these remarks, to recall the frequency with which irregularity of the heart's action and weakness of the pulse form indications of danger in chronic nephritis and renal cirrhosis. The slighter forms of febrile albuminuria which are met with so commonly in connection with pneumonia, or with typhoid fever, appear in themselves to furnish little or no indication of prognostic value. When albuminuria occurs with advanced forms of heart disease it is indicative of failure of compensation, and the prognosis necessarily depends very little upon the interference with the circulation of the kidney. Frequently the extent to which the treatment has succeeded may be gauged by improvement in the urine; under appropriate measures the albuminuria diminishes in many cases concurrently with the diminution of oedema, and with the reabsorption of effusions from the various serous cavities. When in spite of treat- ment the albumin continues in fairly large proportion, the aspect becomes extremely grave, since it is evident that the various organs are unable to cope with the calls made upon them. With regard to the various forms of functional paroxysmal" or " dietetic " albuminuria, the prognosis is almost invariably good, though some forms of dietetic albuminuria may, if neglected, lead to prolonged irritation of the kidney, and there is little doubt that in some cases renal cirrhosis has been set up by repeated attacks of indigestion. The prognosis is good also in the albuminuria of adolescence. Treatment Acute Nephritis. — The leading indications during early days are to secure physiological rest for the kidney, to diminish the risks of extension, and to counteract dangers from in- terference with the eliminative work of the kidney. As soon as a diagnosis of acute nephritis has been made, the patient should be kept in bed, and the action of the skin promoted by the use of woollen garments, while chill should be avoided by the removal of the sheets. The dietary should, at the commencement, be as non-nitrogenous as possible, and should be limited to the smallest amount consistent with the maintenance of strength. As a general rule patients should be kept to a strict milk diet, and the milk may be given either cold or slightly warmed, in quantities of half a pint at a time. It is advisable to continue the use of milk far into convalescence, since the early use of solid nourishment often entails a return of hsematuria. If milk produces dyspeptic symp- toms skimmed milk may be substituted, but it favours constipation. Thirst may be allayed by barley-water or thin arrowroot, and when the patient is unable to continue milk diet these may be given with beef-tea. Milk, if given in too great bulk, sometimes disagrees. It is advisable to use only small quantities during the first few days, and to increase the amount gradually as tolera- tion is established. Later, the patient may take " imperial drink " made as follows :—Two drachms of acid potassium tartrate are placed in a large jug, the juice of one lemon and some sugar or syrup are added, and two pints of boiling water poured in, the ingredients being well mixed. When cool the drink may be placed by the bedside, and taken when desired. Three dangers must be kept in mind : first, the danger of suppression of urine; second, that of interference with respiration and with circulation; and third, the more remote danger of the establishment of chronic renal nephritis. The first of these dangers, that of suppression, may be averted by hydragogue purgatives, or by diuretics. Since, however, most diuretics cause an increase in the calibre of the renal vessels, and thus tend to promote engorgement, it is essential to place full reliance upon dia- phoretic measures and drugs and upon hydra- gogue purgatives. Salines and mild hydragogues are preferable to mercurials, which often favour diuresis. When dropsy is extreme, headache severe, and when convulsions occur, the use of purgatives becomes imperative. In the milder cases full doses of magnesium sulphate may be employed; but when dealing with cases of greater severity, compound jalap powder is generally followed by good results, although some practitioners prefer to substitute scammony resin, with acid potassium tartrate, in the proportions present in the compound jalap powder. Should con- vulsions be followed by coma, it will be advisable to use croton oil in doses of one-third of a minim and upwards. When the urine has lost its smoky character, mercurials, such as calomel, may be given occa- sionally ; but when given at night, a saline purge should be administered in the morning to remove the mercury quickly, and to prevent any prolonged irritation of the renal vessels. Pending the action of purgatives, diaphoresis should be promoted by the wet pack or by the vapour bath. The latter is usually the more prompt in action; but it is necessary to be extremely careful to avoid burns or scalds, since the cutaneous sensibility is so far reduced that severe blistering may occur before there is any complaint of pain.