LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 50 regular use of it in the small group of cases where certain determination was difficult by other means, e.g. cases where no expectoration was available. The results have been uniformly satisfactory. Procedure.—The original tuberculin is prefer- able. Prior to the test the patient's temperature should be carefully recorded several times daily for some days and an exact note made of the physical signs. Aii injection of O'0005-O'OOl gramme, dissolved in i per cent carbolic acid solution, is given deeply into muscular tissue. The patient is thereafter kept at rest, and temperature and pulse noted carefully every 2-3 hours. In positive cases, evidence of the reaction appears in 5-20 hours—the interval varies considerably in difierent cases. The temperature rises 2°-3° F. or more, and the circulation is perturbed. Frequently a change ill physical signs is discernible. Crepitations may become more audible; cough may be increased; expectoration, which was scanty or wanting, may be forthcoming, and in the expectoration bacilli may perhaps be found. In negative cases, matters remain in statu quo. In this event, it may be desirable in 3-4 days to repeat the injection, the amount being increased to 0 "002-0 0003 gramme. The results of the test, if not absolutely certain, may be relied on for practical purposes. Again and again in the writer's experience, when physical signs or symptoms pointed to an early condition, but no expectoration was present or bacilli could not be discovered in the scanty discharge, the injection has testified correctly to the presence of tuberculous involve- ment. The number of doubtful instances has been so small as to be discounted. In the few instances where the injection of tuberculin into apparently non-tuberculous subjects produces a reaction, it is, of course, open to question whether some hidden forces of infection may not be present. In no case, whether the result was negative or positive, has the patient sufiiered by the injection. Conditions from which Pulmonary TiLherculosis must he separated.—At an early stage, and in some cases later on, when lung phenomena are less prominent, the correct diagnosis may be readily missed. The condition may be mistaken for dyspepsia, gastric ulcer, or even malignant disease, anaemia (chlorosis), neurasthenia, hys- teria, and the like. Careful exclusion on the lines jvist indicated is necessary. When respiratory symptoms are more promi- nent, the condition may be mistaken for bronchitis, bronchiectasis, emphysema, pneu- monia, gangrene, abscess, new growths (cancer, hydatid, actinomycosis), syphilis, pleurisy, em- pyema. With regard to some of these, e.g. bronchitis, emphysema, pleurisy, it must be borne in mind that they are frequent accom- paniments, and, in fact, expressions of the tuberculous process. Care must be taken that the lesser, though perhaps more obvious, condition does not obscure the more radical disease. If the diagnostic lines be followed, completeness of diagnosis will be generally assured. When the onset is acute the condition may be mistaken for enteric fever or, perhaps, malaria. Prognosis In the foreground it must be explained that, while the presence of the tubercle bacillus aff'ords ground for anxiety, pulmonary tuber- culosis is very far from being always fatal. On the contrary, it is one of the most curable of maladies if taken sufficiently early and firmly in hand. This is evidenced both by clinical and pathological facts. Even in advanced stages the possibility of cure is considerable. In all cases amelioration is to be contemplated. The prognosis in individual cases is a difficult matter, requiring both skill and experience. No two cases are quite the same. The fact of the presence of the bacillus does not aff'ord sufficient ground for a prognosis; nor do the physical signs alone yield satisfactory informa- tion. A multitude of considerations have to be weighed in each instance. Some of these are pathological, some of more general nature. They comprise the history of the case, mode of onset and course, present symptoms, physical signs, state of temperature, circulation, appetite, digestion, weight, sleep, involvement of other organs, constitution of the patient, his character, intelligence, age, and other conditions of life, including his pecuniary resources. It will be convenient to review the more important of these briefly. Mode of Onset.—An acute onset, with rapid invasion of one or both lungs, is of grave signifi- cance. Contrariwise, a slow, insidious onset, once the nature of the disease is recognised, is favourable. Cases commencing with one or more attacks of pleurisy frequently do well, if only the tuberculous nature of the process is determined and suitably treated. Cases com- mencing with hfemoptysis are not unfavourable. This may be due to several causes. Often the occurrence of the bleeding acts as an efficient danger-signal and ensures greater care for the future. Clinical Course.—A rapid spread from point to point under observation points to great activity of disease, and is correspondingly ominous. Present Symptoms.—These are less directly significant. Persistency of cough is a source of constitutional disturbance, as well as a means of spreading the disease from point to point, which must be kept in view. The character and amount of expectoration are of less import- ance than might be supposed. Some of the