MALARIA 115 by the Countess del Chinchon in 1640, and about the beginning of the eighteenth century it was coming into general use for the treatment of fevers. Torti divided fevers into two classes : those that were cured by this drug and those that were not. He also formulated an elaborate classification of the malarial fevers; but al- though he made many valuable observations, it is evident from his writings that he frequently confounded typhoid and typhus with malaria. In 1847 Meckel in Vienna first described the black pigment, so characteristic of malarial infection. In 1849 Virchow in Berlin saw similar pigment in a fatal case of malaria. Both these pathologists, unconsciously, had discovered the malarial parasite, for they described the pigmented bodies as being distinct from ordinary leucocytes. They failed, however, to recognise the true significance of what they had observed. In 1867 Binz noticed the toxic eff'ect of quinine on certain infusoria, and hinted at the possibility of malaria being caused by a proto- zoal organism. In 1879 Klebs and Tommasi-Crudeli excited world-wide interest by the discovery of their fictitious malaria bacillus, and it was not until some years after the publication of Laveran's discovery that the bacillary origin of malaria was finally discarded. They had many sup- porters, amongst them being such eminent observers as Marchiafava, Celli, and most of the Italian school. In 1880 Laveran, who was at that time a French army surgeon stationed at Constantine in Algiers, took up the study of melansemia, and on examining the blood of malarial patients discovered the crescent bodies, or, as they are sometimes called, Laveran's bodies. He at once recognised their parasitic nature. He subse- quently observed the pigmented ama3boid forms of the parasite, and also the evolution of the flagellated body from the crescent body. To Laveran alone is due the honour of having discovered the malarial parasite, and his work must always remain a landmark in medicine. In 1882 Richard confirmed Laveran's brilliant discovery, and was the first to observe the small non-pigmented forms of the parasite. He stated that the malarial parasite was essentially an intracorpuscular body, whereas Laveran affirmed that it was free or epicorpuscular, being attached (accole) merely to the red corpuscle. So firmly were the Italian school and other workers in the same field imbued at this time with a belief in the Klebs-Tommasi-Crudeli bacillus, that Laveran's discovery was neglected. Marchiafava and Celli said his parasites were merely degenerated changes in the red cor- puscles. In 1885, however, on working with fresh instead of stained blood preparatioiis, which had hitherto been employed, they at once recognised the validity of Laveran's discovery. Golgi next took up the study of the subject, and to him we owe the diff'erentiation of the quartan from the benign tertian parasite. He described accurately their respective morpho- logical characters. He observed also that the febrile paroxysm coincided in point of time with the sporulation of the parasites. Marchiafava, Bignami, Celli, and Mannaberg did equally good work in the classification and in the study of the morphology of the sestivo - autumnal parasites. Many others subsequently confirmed or filled in details in the work of those already men- tioned. Amongst these were Carter, Grassi, Bastianelli, Feletti, Osier, Thayer, Manson, Koch, Pfeiffer, and Plehn. About this time the exact significance of the crescent and flagellated bodies was much dis- puted. Laveran, Manson, and Mannaberg held strongly to the view that they presented all the characters of living organisms, and that they must subserve some useful purpose in the life-history of the malarial parasite. Bignami, Bastianelli, and most of the Italian school, on the other hand, were inclined to believe that these bodies represented merely degenerative forms of the parasite. In 1894 Manson suggested that, inasmuch as there must be some provision in Nature by which the malarial parasite passes from man to man, in order that it may continue as a species, and on account of the similarities, in anatomical position in the blood-vessels, in the biological necessities, and in the geographical distribution subsisting between Filaria nocturna and the malaria parasite, the mosquito might subserve the latter in a manner similar to what he had shown it to subserve the former. Furthermore, that, as special species of mosquito seem to be necessary for the development of the Filaria nocturna, probably special species are required by the malaria parasite. Finally, he advanced the hypothesis that, as the flagellated body is not evolved from the crescent until the latter has left the human body, and because of the peculiar motion which the flagella possess (suggesting locomotion and penetration), this was the phase of the parasite which was connected with the extracorporeal or mosquito cycle. Previously, Nott in 1848, King in 1883, and Laveran in 1891, had suggested that the mosquito had some connection with malaria, founding their conjectures upon epidemiological, rather than on zoological premises. In May 1895, Major Ross, I.M.S., who was impressed by the malaria-mosquito theory which had been enunciated by Manson, undertook the investigation of the subject, and after several years' labour, during which he experienced many disappointments and failures, he ulti- mately fully established the correctness of the leading principles of the theory. His experi-