MALINGERING 164 would so become gradually general. Then the writer proceeded to place his fingers gently some four inches away from the spot reported as the one which was pathologically productive of convulsions. Nothing occurred until the writer asked a colleague to kindly let him know by his watch when the moment arrived at which convulsions were due. At the exact time specified twitchings commenced, and developed exactly in the order pronounced before. The gravest demeanour was observed by those around, and the case developed until the man carefully slipped off the bed and commenced to progress around the ward in an attitude of locomotive episthotonos ! The man was put back to bed eventually, and in his hearing some directions were given which conveyed to his mind that there was no medical treatment forthcoming for " such a grave case" beyond low diet. No more convulsions or other morbid symptoms occurred after that clinical demonstration ! As a warning that we should preserve our unbiassed mind always open to an ultimate diagnosis until we have some convincing elements to base our opinion on, we quote the following case : "A young man was in hospital in prison for tubercular glands of the neck and showed some dissatisfaction when his time of discharge from the comforts of that location arrived ; he was brought back within twenty- four hours in a 'fit.' Now the convulsions and general appearances in this case, coupled with the circumstances, led the writer to suspect the nature of the phenomena; but a careful watching attitude was preserved, and no opinion expressed. The man expired within half an hour of his fresh reception to hospital. The necropsy revealed tubercle of the meninges of the brain." Nor must we forget that a true epileptic may have feigned " fits" superadded to real ones when the motives occur to him. Insanity is generally assumed in a transparent way ; the " hallucinations " and " delusions " are not accompanied by the expression of fear or horror, or other emotions proper to the simu- lated conditions. Insomnia is not continuous. A man who states that his food is poisoned will eat and drink it all. Striking inconsistencies can be noticed frequently; the characters of totally different forms of insanity being blended in a manner that reveals the truth. The facial expression should be particularly studied, always remembering that some malingerers can mimic facially the physiognomy of insanity, as well as that of idiocy, dyspeptic agony, etc. When questioned, the impostor will frequently answer in a merely foolish manner, and not like the lunatic, who is delusional but not palpably ridiculous. He will call his arm his leg, and his head his knee. He will pretend in a trans- parently foolish way that he tiiinks when in London that he is in Japan. His ideas of mad- ness lead him to overact the part in ways that betray him. He will smear his excrement over his head, and put a utensil on the latter and tell you that " You must not talk to your king," and so forth. Some men, however, can feign insanity so ably that alienists are deceived. And some true lunatics will feign an addition of insane symptoms quite incongruous with their real type of disease. Suicidal attempts are very often feigned. In prisons we find that most of such attempts are made by suspension at the precise moment when a warder is due for his visit to the cell. Where the suicide actually has encompassed his death, the hour chosen is generally one when he knows he will not be likely to be disturbed. Melancholia, when feigned, does not present the aspect and fixed apathetic manner proper to the real disorder. Mania, and especially delirious mania, is seldom acted correctly. We only see ridiculous exhibitions of nonsensical chatter instead of the peculiar results of the heightened object-consciousness, which produces the ever-varying and continuous reflection of the surroundings upon the patient's mind, which gives the character to true " ravings." A man who had three times obtained his dis- charge from the army through feigned mania simulated acute delirious mania in prison, but confessed his deceit after three days and nights in a tight strait jacketT Great care is necessary to detect the presence of early symptoms of general paralysis of the insane, as we may easily miss them, and as a consequence consiiler a true case as malingered. The practitioner who desires to be able to detect feigned insanity when he meets it should refresh his acquaintance with the true disease in its various forms by visiting asylums from time to time, as by that means only can the aptitude for rapid differentiation of the true from the assumed be retained. It is well also to seek occasions of witnessing examples of feigned insanity, which can generally be found in prisons. It does not always happen that the most skilled asylum doctor is, at the same time, the most expert detective of feigned insanity. When a feigned case has been detected and the scheme upset, the would-be impostor will often persist in his drama, and a last attempt to convince the doctor of the reality of tiie madness is often made by the final assumption of suicidal intent. We must not change our fixed diagnosis because of this species of terrorism. It is, however, quite impossible to here de- scribe any infallible means of detecting this form of malingering. The most acute observa- tion and appreciation of small mistakes in the presentment should enable a practitioner, skilled