182 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF condensation of the intervening tissue, until finally the breast is represented by an aggrega- tion of cysts of various sizes separated by thin, membranous-looking, and often imperfect septa. Nowadays, however, the disease is rarely allowed to advance to such an extent, but examples of it will be found in most museums. There is no evidence to show that the pro- liferative epithelial changes are precancerous and destined to develop into carcinoma. In the exceptional cases in which this does occur, the writer is of opinion that the variety of cancer which results is the least malignant form, viz., that which has been described by Halstead under the name of adeno-carcirioma. Treatment.—In the early stages of the trouble on active treatment is called for. The subjects Fig. 11.—Small painful inflammatory flbro-adenomatous nodule removed from a patient suttering fioni chri.nic lobular mastitis. The "tumour" is chiefly made up of an inflammatory overgi'owth of the interacinous tissue which deforms and often projects into the acini as irregular pedunculated ingrowths forming one variety of the so-called intra- canalicular fibro-adenoma. of the affection are often neurotic and unduly anxious as to the nature of the condition. The patient's mind should be relieved, and steps should be taken to improve the general health and to remedy any disturbance in the functions of the generative organs. Great benefit is sometimes derived from change of air and the provision of a healthy occupation. Locally, a compress bandage or strapping may be applied, the latter being especially useful if the patient is in the habit of frequently handling the organ. If pain be the chief complaint, a belladonna application should be prescribed. Should the patient complain of a painful, en- larged, and indurated lolnile, the surgeon should not hesitate to excise it, as when once the mental anxiety is removed it will generally be found that further treatment is neither solicited nor required. Should one of the cysts become enlarged it should be excised. In regard to the operation, it must be re- membered that the cyst has no definite walls and cannot, therefore, be shelled out; that it is often deeply seated ; that the adjacent indurated and sclerosed breast tissue must be removed along with the cyst, and that some hsemorrhage is to be anticipated. It is advisable, therefore, to administer a general anaesthetic rather than to attempt to do the operation under cocaine. In cutting down upon the cyst the part of the breast containing it should be fixed between the finger and thumb, and the incision should be made in a direction radiating from the nipple. When the breast tissue is reached the wound is opened up by retractors. The portion of breast containing the cyst is grasped with vulsella forceps, pulled forwards, and resected. If the cyst be accidentally opened, its removal will be facilitated by stuffing it with gauze. The divided vessels of the breast substance are difficult to ligature in consequence of the compact nature of the fibrous tissue; plugging of the wound for a few minutes, however, generally suffices to arrest the bleeding. The cut surfaces of the corpus mammae may be brought together with one or two buried catgut sutures, or with deep sutures of silkworm-gut including the skin. It is advisable to introduce a drainage-tube or strip of gauze, as there is generally some oozing. A stitch may be introduced at the site of the drain and left untied ; on removal of the latter at the end of forty-eight hours, the opening is closed by tying the suture. It not infrequently happens that an incision made into a portion of the breast leads to the discovery of other cysts in the neighbourhood. It is important, therefore, before operating to obtain the sanction of the patient to remove the whole organ if necessary ; this is a pro- cedure which should certainly be followed if duct papillomata or intracystic growths be detected. The axilla, however, need not be interfered with. If the patient does not consent to complete ex- cision, the smaller cysts which are left must be dealt with at a future time should they become enlarged. As the disease is often bilateral both breasts may, unfortunately, have to be sacrificed. It is frequently a difficult matter to decide as to the extent of the surgical interference de- manded in many of these cases. Much depends upon the view which is taken of the pathology of the condition. If the proliferative changes in the glandular epithelium are to be regarded as precancerous, then unhesitatingly the whole breast should be removed. The question is still subjudice, and until it is settled it is justifiable for the surgeon to err upon the safe side and to remove the whole organ. In considering the question of operation, it is