LUNGS, DISEASES OF—GANGRENE 73 tents of the sediment are found to consist of altered and fatty pus corpuscles, many particles of pigment, some elastic fibres of lung, fatty cells and crystals, and numerous bacteria and micro - organisms, leptothrix, staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, and others. In some cases haemoptysis occurs, which may even prove fatal when a large vessel is perforated. Physical Signs.—None are peculiar to gan- grene of lung. They are usually those of local consolidation or lobar pneumonia, or of cavity. There is usually abundant associated bronchitis ; but generally it may be said that the physical signs are those of the local disease which precedes gangrene. Differential Diagnosis.—From the above considerations it will be seen that the only means of diagnosis that we possess are the onset of foetor of breath and expectoration, and the sudden onsets, in cases of pulmonary disease, of extreme prostration associated with high temperature and other signs. When all these symptoms are present the difficulty of diagnosis between foetid bronchitis, bronchiectasis, and gangrene may occasionally occur. In the former case the history and symptoms, with the absence of any sudden and grave change in the symptoms and physical signs, contra- indicates the diagnosis of gangrene. A serious difficulty of diagnosis sometimes occui-s in cases of bronchiectasis. No pathognomonic sign serves completely to distinguish between the two conditions; the whole clinical picture has to be studied in each case. The odour of gangrene differs somewhat from that of bronchiectasis—but it is a question of impression, for both are extremely offensive. As a rule, gangrene is a far more acute condition, and the temperature and profound exhaustion of the patient will confirm the suspicion. Treatment.—If the site of the gangrenous area can be localised, and especially if the physical signs of a cavity can be diagnosed, surgical treatment is indicated. When such a cavity has been opened and drained, recovery has in a few cases resulted. Very little is to be hoped from other than surgical treatment. The foetor of gangrene has been reduced by the hypodermic injection of guaiacol and in- halations or sprays of carbolic acid and other antiseptics. Emphysema of the Lmigs Definition . „ . . . .73 History and Causation . . . .73 Inducing Causes 74 Forms of Emphysema (Primary and Secondary) ..... 74 Pathology . . . . . .74 Physical Signs 75 Symptoms . . . . . .76 Diagnosis . . . . . .76 Treatment . . . . . .76 Definition.—A permanent ovei'-distension of the pulmonary alveoli, with atrophy and de- struction of their intervening partitions and general rarefaction of lungs. Tliis definition obviously excludes certain types of bulky lungs to which the term emphysema has been loosely applied. It will be convenient to eliminate these first from the disease under discussion. Acute vesiculai' emphysema is a condition of over - distension of lungs found in children who have died from bronchitis, whooping- cough, diphtheria, and other allied conditions. Whether from violence of cough or partial laryngeal or bronchial obstruction, the alveoli become temporarily over-distended and the lung is found to be bulky and non-crepitant. As Fagge states, " probably the lungs would have recovered if the patient had lived." It is frequently observed in children who are the subjects of severe cough, dyspnoea, or obstruc- tion to respiration, that the cardiac and liver dulnesses become diminished. If the cause is removed the condition subsides, and the lungs resume their normal size. These are cases of temporary over-distension, and have little to do with the disease in question. Interstitial pulmonary emphysema is a com- paratively rare disease, and implies the entrance of air into the interstitial connective tissue enveloping the bronchi and walls of the alveoli. It is only possible when a breach of surface occurs in the bronchial or pulmonary tissues admitting the ingress of air from without. It is occasionally the result of a tracheotomy wound, has been known to occur after a punctured wound of lung, and more rarely as a result of pneumothorax (usually of traumatic origin). Air spreads into the tissues around the larynx or bronchi, or even permeates into the alveolar walls, causing collapse of alveoli. Usually the cases terminate fatally. History and Theories of Causation.—We owe the earliest and complete description of emphy- sema to Laennec ] but its true pathology was first described by Rokitansky. Laennec's views of tlie causation of the disease differed from those of later writers in that he conceived the idea that air was retained in the alveoli in cases of catarrh or obstruction, whether by swelling of the mucous membrane or blocking of the tubes; and that while air could be admitted during forced inspiration, its egress was retarded owing to the obstruction to expiration, and thus tension was increased and a consequent disten- sion and yielding of the alveolar walls was produced. Later writers have maintained two opposing views, and in England these have been associated with the names of Gairdner and Jenner. Gairdner believed that emphy- sema was due to forced inspiratory eff'ort. If under ordinary conditions of respiration the lungs are capable of holding a certain amount