MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 327 jar or if any attempt is made to move the head. Backache is less common, though at the onset patients may complain of pain in the back of the neck and extending down the spine. It may be associated with spasm of the muscles, and any attempt to turn in bed or to straighten the spine causes great suffering. Frigidity of the neck and back is rarely absent. The cervical muscles may be in active spasm, which retracts the head so that in extreme cases it may rest on the spine between the shoulder- blades, and even cause difficulty in swallowing. Slighter grades of rigidity and arching may persist even after the acute symptoms have passed away. Any attempt to lift the head may cause pain. The rigidity of the back may be of such a grade that the patient may be lifted by the hand placed beneath the occiput. There may be an extreme grade of arching of the back, so that the head, neck, and trunk form a large part of the arc of a circle. Convulsions are, as mentioned, common at the onset, and may be extensor in character, resembling those of tetanus. Irritative lesions of the cortical centres may cause clonic spasms of the muscles of the arms or contractures of one or both legs; sometimes clonic spasms of the muscles of one side of the face. Paralysis occurs most frequently in the eye muscles, though it is not so common as in tuberculous meningitis. In some epidemics strabismus has been a very frequent symptom. Hemiplegia may occur, and in several of our cases there was a limpness amounting almost to paralysis of all the limbs. Paraplegia is rare, but it may occur early, even before there are any cerebral symptoms. Aphasia may come on abruptly, and in children may persist long after convalescence. Cutaneous hypereesthesia is one of the most characteristic features of the disease. The patients dread to be touched, and even when comatose will wince when the skin is pinched. It is more marked than in any other form of meningitis. Psychical Disturbances.—There may be only slight mental confusion, which rapidly dis- appears. A very distressing feature of some cases is the retention of consciousness through- out. A maniacal condition may occur at the onset, to be followed in twenty-four or thirty- six hours in the severe cases by a deepening coma. In other instances the patient is apathetic and dull and very difficult to arouse. During convalescence the mental processes may be very slow, and in a few cases delusional insanity follows. The Temperature.—The onset may be afebrile, and indeed a patient may remain so for three or four days with the symptoms of the disease well marked. The temperature may even be subnormal; this is exceptional, though it was present in two cases of the sporadic form. In the very chronic cases, also, there may be no fever towards the close, or the record may be from 95-5° to 97°. In the cases we have had under observation there have been three types of fever: first, a continuous pyrexia closely Chart I.—Type of continuous pyrexia. resembling that of typhoid fever (Chart I.); secondly, a remittent type, with wide daily excursions of from three to even five degrees (Chart II.); thirdly, an intermittent form, in which there are daily paroxysms, as shown in Chart III. When chills occur, the picture in this form may resemble the intermittent fever of malaria, but the paroxysms are longer than