MALARIA 149 T / loe- 106* 2 2 e 2l £"5 7 1 "S"!] ;ale 104- «• LE. CO CO 103- SCA HEIT lOZ- I-- r \ 39' (ADE RENI lor t K — CENTIGR FAH lOS- 38- UJ EC jj. -1 i -1 TURE :rat -l -\ . 37* ERA TEMPE 88- 97- -f / V TEMP > 36- proof, and, by the use of an efficient mos- quito-net, under other circumstances the lia- bility to the bites of mosquitoes can be reduced to a minimum. In the day-time, in places where mosquitoes are known to abound, gloves and a mask should be used. The result of the experiments that have been carried on during this sum- O AM PM A INrt PM Ah/ mer and autumn in the Roman Campagna by the English Commission, by Grassi, and by Celli tends to in- dicate that one of the chief pro- phylactic agents that will be directed against malaria in the near future will be the employ- ment of mos- quito-proof houses. Various substances which are distasteful to mosquitoes may be applied to skin, such as essential oils, paraffin, quinine ointment, etc. Smoking, no doubt, tends to keep the insects off. Punkahs and lamp traps also serve a useful purpose. As infected indi- viduals are the source of infection to others, they should be avoided or protected by mos- quito-nets ; and as native villages and houses are always infected, it follows that their neighbour- hood is danger- ous for residence or camping. The Malarial Parasite can be attacked in its Human Host.— We have already seen that it is the gamete cells which are the source of infec- tion through the agency of the mosquito; but as these bodies only make their appearance in the peripheral blood after asexual forms have appeared, we must take every means possible to destroy the latter as soon as possible and prevent relapses of fever. An infected individual should avoid all depressing in- fluences, such as wetting, chills, sun exposure, exhaustion, bad food—in short, his hygienic surroundings should be made as perfect as possible. When relapses do occur they must be promptly treated with quinine; early specific treatment tends to reduce the number of the gamete cells formed, and it may often prevent their appearance in the peripheral circulation altogether. In some malarious countries—Italy, for ex- Chart V.—From a case of malignant tertian malaria, illustrating the long pyrexial period and the short apyrexial interval. Note the preliminary rise and partial fall—the precritical rise and false crisis. ample—if the occurrence of relapses could be entirely prevented, malaria would be probably stamped out in a single year. It is the re- lapses, probably, which give rise to the new infections at the commencement of each malarial season. Quinine is, no doubt, of some use as a 9t Chart VI.—Quotidian malignant malaria. (After Bignarai, Rome.) prophylactic against malarial attacks ; the dose, however, requires to be as much as five grains daily. This, in some individuals, brings about disturbances of digestion and of the nervous system. Arsenic, in the hands of the Italians, has given good results. Methylene blue and euchinin have not yet been employed on a sufficiently large scale to judge of their prophy- lactic value. No drug at present is known that L.