135 MALARIA and it is passed more frequently; it is scanty and high-coloured during the sweating stage. Albumen is occasionally present in small amount, and then, generally, a few hyaline and granular casts are to be found. Urobilin is increased, and occasionally bilirubin is present, and, as in other febrile states, acidity is increased and specific gravity raised. The elimination of urea is increased, both immediately before and during the paroxysm, falling below normal during the intermission. Ringer discovered the interesting fact that when the fever has been checked by quinine, urea is increased on those days on which the fever is due. Chlorides and uric acid remain practically unaltered ; the former may be increased slightly during the attack. Phos- phates fall markedly during the attack, but increase subsequently. The urine rarely gives the diazo reaction. Quartan Fever.—In most districts this form of malarial infection is less common than the benign tertian, but until systematic examina- tions of the blood in malarious countries become more general it will be impossible to judge of the relative frequency of the different types of malarial fever. Quartan is, probably, more common than is generally supposed. Ross, in the malarial expedition to Sierra Leone in 1899 found it very prevalent during August and September. In Nigeria, West Africa, during 1898 and 1899, 1 saw no cases of quartan malaria. It occurs in the West Indies, in many parts of India, in Italy, and in Southern Europe during the spring months. It is, undoubtedly, relatively to other malarial infections, more commonly met with in temperate climates than in the Tropics. Quartan infections may be single, double, or treble. In single infections there are two clear days of apyrexia ; in double infections there are two days of pyrexia and one day of apyrexia. Treble infection gives rise to a quotidian fever. Quartan may be associated with the benign tertian or malignant parasites, more rarely with both. The fever is characterised by the presence of a distinctive parasite in the blood {Irlmmamoebm malarice) which has a cycle of development lasting seventy-two hours. With this exception the fever it induces differs very little from that of the benign tertian. It may be regarded as being more benign in character than the tertian ; it is obvious that a fever having a seventy-two hour periodicity is less likely to prove harmful than one having a forty-eight hour periodicity. The very fact that it is of a mild character often leads to this fever being neglected, espe- cially in children, and then the insidious relapses and reinfections may gradually bring about a cachexia almost equal in intensity to that pro- duced by the malignant parasite. I recently saw a sad instance of this in a young family of half-caste children from Demerara ; two of them had spleens reaching to the pelvis; they all harboured quartan parasites, were intensely cachectic, but none of them had been receiving any treatment. In this form of malaria, re- lapses are prone to recur many months, or even years, after leaving a malarious country. Quartan fever does not respond so readily to treatment as tertian fever. The Blood in Quartan Fever. — This will show the presence of the characteristic parasite, and its evolution can be traced out by serial examina- tions. The changes that the parasite undergoes are the same as those in benign tertian, but there are certain morphological differences which can be readily observed, and which render diagnosis easy. If an examination be made during, and just after the rigor, small non- pigmented ama3bul8e will be found, and with care can be distinguished from those of the benign tertian parasite even at this early stage. Amoeboid movement is less and the refraction index of the parasite is different; the quartan amoebula is a little darker in colour and more definite in outline. If the examination be re- peated in twelve hours' time these points will be more evident; the amoeboid movement is sluggish and the outline of the parasite clear. It will be noticed also that there is no enlarge- ment of the infected red cell, and that the pigment granules are very coarse in grain, and generally in short rods (see Plate II., Figs. 13 and 14). At a later period the pigment will be seen to collect around the periphery of the parasite; the protoplasm of the infected red cell does not become pale ; if anything it is a little darker than that of the non-infected red cells. At the sporulating stage the sporocytes will be seen to be made up of from five to twelve spores, which are arranged in a single row around a central mass of pigment. The whole is described as being daisy-shaped (see Plate II., Fig. 18). Though similar in other respects, the gamete cells of the quartan parasite are some- what smaller than those of the tertian (see Plate II., Fig. 19). Pigmented leucocytes will generally be found. Abortive or Larval Malarial Attacks.—These occur more frequently than is generally supposed. I'hey often appear as relapses after malignant infections, less frequently after benign in- fections. The symptoms are those of malaise, headache, slight pains in the limbs or back. Sweating may or may not occur. The tempera- ture may remain normal, and parasites may be absent from the peripheral circulation. The symptoms, in short, closely resemble those which occur in the prodromal stage of typical malarial infection. Splenic enlargement takes place in these attacks, and it is probably in this way that the large spleens are accounted for in individuals who say they have had very little fever during a prolonged residence in intensely malarious regions.