MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 304 probably to some extent explains the hyperm- nesia of fevers, but it is seen most distinctly after the taking of some drugs or articles of diet such as alcohol, tea, cocaine, and morphia. By these memory may be excited and the imagina- tion stimulated, as in the well-known case of De Quincey. It has been said that drowning people have marked hypermnesia. Some who have been rescued have related how their whole life has passed before them in a few seconds, many events which had taken a long time to occvir being crowded into that short time. Hypermnesia has also been stated to have occurred after accidents to the head, such as blows. Cases have been related where such accidents produced a permanent excitation of memory. The hypermnesia may be local or limited to a group of memories. Some of the cases recorded of this condition are very interesting, as in those cases where a language which apparently has been forgotten is revived. The case recorded by Dr. Rush is one of this sort. An Italian in America was seized with yellow fever: at the beginning of his illness he spoke English, in the middle French, and on the day of his death he spoke only Italian, which was his mother- tongue. It is related also of a Pole under chloroform that he spoke his native tongue, which he had not used for thirty or forty years. A Frenchman, understanding English and being in England, got a blow on the head, and during his illness was only able to speak in French. These are examples of temporary excitation of memories in long disuse, but they imply the temporary blotting out of more recent memories, and therefore are in accord with the law as to recent memories not being so deeply imprinted as memories earlier in life. Before concluding I may refer to the peculiar condition which is vouched for by many that when they have gone into some room or other place for the first time they are vaguely aware of the fact that they have been there before, although they know that such cannot be the case. It is a peculiar condition and difficult to explain. In some cases it may arise from a vague resemblance between the scene being witnessed and some former scene nearly for- gotten, but in other cases this explanation is scarcely satisfactory. It seems to me that a more satisfactory explanation is that the first impression of the place is recorded in the cortical cells, without at first arousing active conscious- ness, and when active consciousness is aroused the first impression is not recognised as an impression just received, but is supposed to have been received in a vaguely previous period. Menarch^.—The age of commencement of menstruation; the establishment of the menstrual function (Gr. ft.rjv, a month, and a.pxn, a beginning). See Menstruation. Mendel's Law.—Mendelism or Mendel's law is a principle in heredity enunciated by G. J. Mendel of Briinn in 1865, but little known till 1900. It is founded on experiments in the fertilisation of different forms of the common pea ; and it consists in the statement that if two forms of pea (a and y8) be crossed, hybrids are produced (say y and S) whose sex cells contain equal numbers of cells with the characters of a and of The distinguishing characters of a may be called A and those of /3 may be called B; the sex cells of y and 8 are believed from their behaviour to consist of equal numbers of cells of type A and of type B. If, now, y and 8 be crossed, three things may happen—cells of type A may unite with others of type A to give pure forms, or those of type B may do the same to give pure forms, or those of type A may unite with those of type B to give hybrid forms, AB; and the hybrid forms will tend to be twice as numerous as either of the pure forms {i.e. from 100 fertilisations there will result 25 A's, 25 B's, and 50 AB's or hybrids); this numerical relationship was shown by Mendel to exist. MenidrOSiS.—The occurrence of blood- stained perspiration in the association with suppression of the menses ; a form of xenomenia or vicarious menstruation. See Menstruation AND ITS Disorders. IVl6n lire's Disease. — Labyrinthine vertigo. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Hcemorrhage into the Labyrinth); Brain, Tu- mours OF {Diagnosis); Hypnotism {Therapeutic Uses); Vertigo (Ifeniere's Disease). Mening'eS.—The affections of the men- inges are considered in the following sections :— i. A general article dealing with the anatomy and physiology, also vascular, inflammatory, and other states not included in sections ii. and iii. (see p. 305). ii. Tuberculous meningitis and posterior basic meningitis (see p. 316). iii. Epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis (see p. 324). See also Alcoholism {Pathology, Meninges); Bed-Sores {3Ieningitis due to Chronic Bed-Sore); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Throm- bosis in Cerebral Veins) ; Brain, Hypertrophy {Diagnosis); Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis, Meningitis); Brain, Surgery of {Injuries; Compression, Diagnosis; Intracranial Inflam- mation ; Cerebral Abscess, Diagnosis); Burns AND Scalds {Cerebral Complications); Children, Clinical Examination of {Neck, Stiffness); Choroid, Diseases of {Choroiditis, Sequel); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Re- current Vomiting, Diagnosis); Glanders {Patho- logy) ; Hydrocephalus {Syviptoins); Hysteria IN Childhood {Symptoms, Pseudo-Meningitis); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Nervous System) ; Mumps {Complications); Nose, Dis-