62 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS XX., three times daily. If it is pushed to the larger doses the kidneys should be watched. It may be exhibited in capsules on a full stomach, or dissolved in wine, or in emulsion with cod-liver oil. Of its congeners, guaiacol may be used similarly, or benzoate of guaiacol (benzosol). Still more certainly borne by the stomach is carbonate of guaiacol, which may be given in gradually increasing doses of gr. v.-xxv. thrice daily. It affords satisfactory results, and has the advantage of being odour- less and tasteless. Carbonate of creosote (creosotal) is a faintly bitter fluid, which may be given in doses of Ttl v.-xxx. thrice daily. Whichever preparation be selected, its use should be maintained continuously for weeks or months, if lasting benefit be expected. Menthol has been used with advantage both in lung and laryngeal tuberculosis. It is doubt- ful if it has any direct influence on the tuber- culous process. It is probably of significance rather in relation to mixed infections. It may be conveniently administered in 20 per cent solution in olive oil by intralaryngeal injection once or twice daily ; this method is very easy with practice. Symptomatically, the patient is often benefited. Camphor dissolved in oil has been introduced subcutaneously or intralaryngeally, or directly into the lung, with benefit. Or it may be given internally in the form of camphoric acid (gr. x.-xv. thrice daily). Eucalyptol is definitely beneficial. Under its continued use the symptoms, and notably the discharge, lessen. It may be administered by the mouth (ttl v.-xx. thrice daily), or it may be given subcutaneously, dissolved in liquid vaseline, or intralaryngeally, dissolved in olive or castor oil. Formalin. -Tlh.e constant inhalation of forma- lin (^-2 per cent) by means of simple oro-nasal mask covered with open muslin, which does not interfere with respiration, has resulted satis- factorily, especially in cases where both lung and larynx are involved. It is difficult to say whether its activity is in relation to the tubercle bacillus or other organisms (mixed infection). There can be no doubt that benefit results. Cinnamic acid has pi'oved of service. It certainly effects improvement symptomatically. It has been maintained that its continued use leads definitely to cicatrisation of tuberculous tissues. It may be given internally in the form of oil of cinnamon or oil of cassia (lU v.-x. pro dos.) added to an emulsion of cod-liver oil, or subcutaneously or intravenously in the form of cinnamic acid or cinnamate of sodium dis- solved in sterilised salt solution. Balsam of Peru, which has been used in various ways with benefit, probably owes its influence to the cinnamic acid present. Iodoform has been used with apparent benefit. It may be conveniently exhibited in pill form (gr. i.-v. or more) thrice daily. The other remedies vaunted as specifics are too numerous to mention. The list includes mercury, iodine, sulphuretted hydrogen (in- cluding the natural sulphuretted waters), carbolic acid, tar in various forms, ichthyol, resorcin, tannin, anilin. Atropine has been credited with antagonistic efficacy in relation to the circulating toxins. The surgical treatment of tuberculous vomicae has not been attended by encouraging results. Nor has the application of electricity or the Rontgen rays so far afforded very certain results. C. Measures for Relief of more Important Symptoms and Complications. — The sympto- matic treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis is not unimportant. It must be kept in view that such measures occupy a secondary place com- pared with the preceding' lines of treatment. In proportion as the larger measures are carried out, the necessity for symptomatic treatment is diminished (vide p. 59). We shall consider the more important symptoms and complications seriatim. Pain. — The cause should be determined. Where severe and due to recent pleurisy, a fly- blister is usually most serviceable, or the affected side may be strapped. In slighter pains, of less certain origin, iodine or mustard may be tried. When the pain is general, especially in children, a warm poultice or stupe is desirable, to which sedative agents may be added. At other times a rubefacient liniment or oil may prove sufficient. If the painful condition be more urgent, mor- phine may be required. Cough.—The cause of cough is various, and should be determined before treatment is adopted. Under the open-air treatment cough tends to disappear. The patient can assist greatly. The cough is often unnecessary, is of nervous origin, or a bad habit. None the less it is hurtful by putting stress on the lung and hastening the spread of disease. When un- necessary for expectoration {vide infra) and irritating, it should be restrained as much as possible. This is often best effected by codein (gr. \-^) conveniently given in glycerine (4 grs. ad 3j.), or dionin (gr. These are more desirable than heroin (gr. -gV'TV) morphine (gr. yV-J), which are more likely to produce disagreeable co-effects. In some cases, when there is tickling irritation about the throat, a menthol and cocaine pastille may be sufficient, or a spray of menthol dissolved in paroleine (5 per cent). Sometimes hyoscyamus, bella- donna, or lactucarium may prove helpful. In many cases nothing so certainly relieves cough as a blister over the manubrium sterni. It should be noted that frequently enough cough is induced or kept up by inhalations, e.g. of terebene, eucalyptus, etc. Expectoration. — Cough may be maintained