332 MENINGITIS Mening'itis. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Inflamrnatiom of); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic ; Menin- gitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal. Meni ng'OCeie. — A cystic protrusion consisting of the cerebral or spinal membranes through a defect (usually congenital) in the cranium or vertebral canal; all the three men- inges may protrude, or the dura alone. See Brain, Surgery of {Cephalocele, Meningocele); Capillaries, Diseases of {Congenital Angioma, Diagnosis); Deformities {Clubfoot, Etiology); Hydrocephalus {Complications); Orbit, Dis- eases OF THE {Cystic Tumours); Palate {Diseases, Tumours); Spina Bifida (Varieties, Meniiigocele); Spinal Cord, Medical {Developmental Peculi- arities) ; Spine, Surgical Affections of. Mening^OCOCCUS.—The micrococcus of cerebro-spinal meningitis ; the diplococcus intra- cellularis. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro- spinal {Bacteriology); Nose, Examination of {Bacteriological Character of Secretion). Mening^O-encephalitiS. — Inflam- mation of the brain and cerebral membranes. See Brain, Inflammations {Chronic Encephalitis); Brain, Surgery of {Leptomeningitis); Meninges OF THE Cerebrum {Chro7iic Leptomeningitis, Sypjhilitic). Mening^o-encephalocele.—A pro- trusion from the cranium consisting of both brain and cerebral membranes. See Encephalocele. Men i ng'Omyel it is. — Inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes. iVIening'omyeloceie. See Spina Bifida (Varieties). iVIeniSCUS. — A crescentic body (Gr. fj-qvia-Kos, a crescent), such as a lens convex on one side and concave on the other, or an inter- articular fibro-cartilage; from this word menis- citis (inflammation of an interarticular cartilage) and meniscoid (resembling a concavo-convex lens) take their origin. tVlenispermuin. — The moonseed, a herb (J/, canadense) whose rhizome has been used medicinally as a substitute for sarsaparilla. Menis2jermi7ie is an alkaloid (C^gHg^NgOg) ob- tained from it or from the Anami7-ta cocculus; it contains another alkaloid menispine, which resembles oxyacanthine. iVIenO-.—In compound words meno- (Gr. fj-riv-q, the moon, or /xr^v, a month) means relating to menstruation; thus menocelis is a sort of menstrual purpura in which congested patches occur upon the skin in women in whom the menses have failed to appeal-, constituting a form of vicarious menstruation or menometastasis. See Menstruation. Menopause, The. Introduction . . . . . .332 The Normal History .... 332 Disorders accompanying .... 334 Treatment . . . . . .335 See also Menstruation and its Disorders {Menopause); Climacteric ; Climacteric In- sanity ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties) ; Pruritus {Clinical Groups, Pruritus Ani); Rheumatism, Rheuma- toid Arthritis ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tu- mours OF {Myofihromata, Life-History); Uterus, Associated Insanity {Mental Symptoms at the Climacteric). Menopause is the time when in the human female the activity of the ovaries finally ceases. It occurs, as a rule, when the woman is about fifty years old, and it usually occupies from six to twelve months. It is characterised by irregularity of the catamenial periods, sudden flushings, some vertigo, and by many other varying manifestations of nervous instability. The degree of severity of these symptoms varies mainly with the initial quality of the patient's nervous system, as inherited from her parents, and in a smaller but very real degree with the circumstances of her life. A woman who in- herits a good and stable organisation and who has also led a rational, active, and temperate life, does not, as a rule, suffer anything more than slight or temporary discomfort at the menopause. But if she inherits an unstable nervous system which is ready to break down under stress of any kind, and if in addition she has had many worries, and has taken very little outdoor exercise; if she has had too little sleep, too little reci'eation, and possibly more wine than she needs, the result is frequently a more or less complete upset of her nervous equili- brium. Under such conditions a change from one stage of development to another, which should be a normal process giving no serious trouble, is transformed into a grave departure from health or even into complete mental dis- turbance. (See " Climacteric Insanity.") The menopause is said to be natural when it has not been caused by operative interference. When the ovaries have been removed by opera- tion the resulting menopause is described as artificial. Here the catamenial loss is arrested and the other symptoms of "change of life" are present, but usually in a more marked degree. The symptoms are more severe because the rate at which the change in the activity of the ovaries has been made is much more rapid than it is in normal conditions. In a natural meno- pause there is a beneficent absence of haste. The change affected is spread over many months, and in a large proportion of women it finds them in good general health and with fairly well-balanced nerves. Whatever it is that the ovaries have hitherto contributed to the general well-being of