25 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS invasion by the bacillus. Outdoor workers are notably less liable to the disease. Unfortunately in their case the house conditions may be no less unsatisfactory. The airless conditions of most houses among all classes is responsible for much of the disease. In reference to occupa- tion and mode of life, it is of significance to recall that, in the case of the lower animals, it is not the beast exposed to all weathers, and breeding in the open, which falls victim to tubercvilous disease, but comfortably housed milch cows whose ranks are decimated. The comparative immunity enjoyed by the goat, and even Highland cattle, is probably to be explained in this way. Precedent Illnesses. — These are frequently cited as contributory causes. The statement is but partially true : it may be entirely mislead- ing. The subject is a complicated one. For, in the first place, many illnesses, credited with causal relationship, are themselves expressions of previously existing tuberculosis. This is conspicuously true of pleiirisy. In the vast majority of instances a precedent pleurisy does not lead to pulmonary tuberculosis by effecting damage and lowered resistance in the lung. The pleurisy is in most cases an ex- pression of already existing tuberculous disease. The pleurisy may appear to get cured, but inasmuch as the tuberculosis on which it de- pends is probably not cured, fresh manifestations may be expected. Lack of recognition of this fact is responsible for much of the current incompleteness of treatment of tuberculosis. While pleurisy is in all cases toxic in origin, in an immense majority the toxic factor is tuberculosis. Bronchitis is cited as leading to tuberculosis. This statement must be accepted with grave reservation. The greater number of ordinary cases of bronchitis—both acute and chronic— recover or continue, and the patient dies with- out suspicion of tuberculosis. In a certain member, the catarrhal condition of the passages may seem the avenue by which tuberculosis is established. But a grave fallacy underlies the statement as commonly made. A large number of cases of pulmonary tuberculosis are spoken of for long—often throughout—as if they were cases of bronchitis. This is true of cases at all ages, but is especially so in respect of tubercu- losis occurring among children and old persons. Both in life, and afterwards to the registrar- general, these cases are unfortunately labelled bronchitis. Pneumonokoniosis may lead to tuberculosis, although it may run its course independent of this. Many cases, e.g. of stonemason's disease, begin in the non-specific way and present for long the features (physical and other) of a simple pulmonary fibrosis, and yet perhaps tail off into pulmonary tuberculosis, as proved by the presence of tubercle bacillus in the expec- toration and the tissues post-mortem. Acute pneumonia has been supposed to terminate sometimes in pulmonary tuberculosis. This is probably not so. With regard to cases which seem to end thus, it is obviously diflicult to exclude a pre-existing tuberculosis, for croupous pneumonia occurs frequently enough in the subject of chronic lung disease. Fiirther, there is reason to believe that cases of subacute basal tuberculosis are sometimes mistaken for croupous pneumonia. In such event it is easy to see how misleading conceptions of the sequence of events might arise. Some of the acute fevers, notably measles, whooping-co^igh, and infiuenza, have been supposed to lead to subsequent tuberculosis. With respect to measles and whooping-cough there is often a disregard of necessary precautions during convalescence, which then results in a continuance of an un- healthy, catarrhal state of the mucous mem- branes, which in turn prepares the way for the tubercle bacillus. Influenza may sometimes be similarly responsible. In a still larger number of instances, influenza appears to waken into activity a latent tuberculosis. Other diseases might be shown to be related to tuberculosis in one or other of these ways—(1) by their devital- ising action on tissues, whereby they are rendered less resistant to the bacillus {cf. " Diabetes "); (2) by their power of rekindling dormant or quiescent tuberculous processes. Heart-Disease.—Mitral disease has been reck- oned antagonistic to tuberculosis. But this cannot be stated so universally. It is indeed remarkable that the subjects of mitral disease, who often perforce must lead a sedentary life, should not more frequently contract tuberculosis. But large experience in relation to pulmonary tuberculosis goes to show that the two condi- tions are not so infrequent concomitants as has been stated. It is of some interest to note that cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, accompanied by mitral disease, tend to run a chronic course. Pulmonary stenosis — commonly a congenital manifestation — often comes to be associated with pulmonary tuberculosis. Pathological Anatomy The pathological appearances vary endlessly, as might be expected from the great variety of clinical course which pulmonary tuberculosis follows. But the morbid appearances—how- ever great their variety—group themselves in relation to the constantly present tubercle, which we have seen to be the immediate re- sultant of successful invasion of the tissues by the tubercle bacillus. On this fact rests the essential unity of phthisis; hence the ad- vantage of the term pulmonary tuberculosis over other terminology introduced at a time when the pathological relationships were ill understood. Much of the so-called classification of the disease has been, therefore, discarded.