MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 168 The parenchyma is prolonged into these pro- cesses, and in spare women with well-developed mammse it may reach to within a short distance of the corium. Posteriorly, the mamma is separated from the pectoral muscle by a thin stratum of loose connective tissue, the deeper layers of which are more compactly woven to constitute the jjectoral fascia proper. In obese subjects the retromammai'y tissue is represented by a layer of fat of considerable thickness. Fig. 1.—From the mamma of a girl, Eet. 18. To show the normal structure ami the develop- ment of acini. «, Dense interlobular stroma consisting of wavy, closely packed connective- tissue fibres; 6, intralobular connective tissue; c, large duct cut transversely with a smaller duct; rf, leading to the developing lobules; e, acini (surrounded by thick hyaline- looking membrana; propriae) developing as solid epithelial buds from the terminal intra- lobular ducts /. Delicate processes of breast tissue pass from the deep surface of the corpus mammte into the retromammary tissue, and Heidenhain has shown that gland parenchyma not infrequently extends into them as far as the pectoral fascia, and indeed sometimes for a short distance into the processes which dip from the fascia between the more superficial fasciculi of the muscle. The breast tissue has a much wider distribu- tion than was formerly supposed. Vertically, it extends from the second rib to the sixth costal cartilage at the angle where it begins to sweep upwards to the sternum ; horizontally. from a little within the edge of the sternum opposite the fourth rib to the fifth rib in the mid-axillary line. For purposes of clinical description, the mamma is subdivided artificially into four quadrants by means of a vertical and a horizontal diameter which intersect at the nipple. The quadrants are named upper-inner, lower-inner, upper-outer, lower-outer, respect- ively. Two adjacent quadrants constitute a hemisphere. The inner hemisphere rests almost entirely on the pectoralis major; at its lowest part it slightly overlies the upper part of the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen. The upper half of the outer hemisphere rests upon the greater pectoral, on the edge of the lesser pectoral, and to a slight extent on the serratus magnus, upon which, and under cover of the pec- toralis major, it extends upwards into the axilla ("axillary tail" of Spence) as high as the third rib, where it comes into relation with the thoracic group of axillary lymphatic glands situ- ated upon the inner wall of the axilla. The re- mainder of the outer hemisphere rests almost entirely upon the ser- ratus, except the lowest part which overlaps the fleshy digitations of the external oblique arising from the fifth and sixth ribs. It follows, there- fore, that about one-third of the whole mamma lies inferior and external to the axillary border of the pectoralis major. These relations have been dwelt upon in detail because the surgeon must cut beyond the limits here mentioned if he wishes to remove the whole of the breast tissue. The skin of the nipple, abundantly supplied with sebaceous glands, is covered by a thin epidermis, clothing large sensitive papilhe. On the summit of the nipple is a slight depression into which the milk ducts, twelve to twenty in number, open by minute orifices. The glands of Montgomery, situated upon the areola, and frequently referred to as sebaceous, have been shown by Rein and others to be rudimentary