272 MEDICINE, HISTORY OF on the minds of men until late in the eighteenth century. According to his school the body contained four humours—blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile—the due admixture of which constituted health, and excess or defect of either set up disease. He paid great attention to personal hygiene, exercise, and diet for the prevention and cure of disease, but did not despise drugs, of which 265 are enumerated in the writings of his school; and blood-letting- was sometimes, though rarely, practised by the Hippocratic physicians, especially those of Cnidus, who made more use also of drugs. Thus in his search for new remedies Theo- phrastus laid the foundations of the science of botany, as Aristotle did of natural history in general. For several generations after the death of Hippocrates, the history of medicine is for Greece itself a blank; but the conquests of Alexander carried Greek learning and science over Asia and Africa. Medical schools were opened in various cities, including Alexandria, which long continued to be the most famous university in the world. Here, under Erasis- tratus and Herophilus, anatomy was first taught systematically by dissection of the human body, a practice which seems to have found favour nowhere else. Herophilus and his school abode strictly by the teaching of Hippocrates, and attached excessive value to literary culture; while Erasistratus endeavoured to explain the phenomena and causes of diseases, especially inflammations, on mechanical hypotheses. Anatomy, however, without physiology—that is, an acquaintance with the form and position of organs without a knowledge of their functions —is of little use; and the physicians of the following century neglected the study altogether, relying wholly on the observation of symptoms, and, so far as they were able to judge, on the action of drugs, diet, baths, and exercises, thus assuming or receiving the name of Empirics or practical men. The best known of this school were Philinus, Serapion, and Glaucias of Tarentum, who assiduously followed the clinical methods of Hippocrates, which they described as the tripos of observation, histories, and judgment by analogy, or, as we should say, observation, case-taking, and collective inves- tigation. Egyptian and Greek medicine had been alike of native growth, and the school of Alexandria represented the union of the two— the Empirics excelling in surgery and obstetrics, branches in which manual skill and practice count for more than science and theory. But in Rome it was wholly exotic, and the physicians and surgeons to the first century after the Christian era were exclusively Greeks. The earliest whose name has come down to us is Archagathus; but the most eminent was Asclepiades, the friend of Cicero, who, with his pupil Themison, founded the school of Methodists. They, like the Empirics, ignored anatomy, but they rejected the teachings of Hippocrates—directing their attention to the general condition rather than to the local phenomena, and referring all diseases to con- strictions or relaxations of the "pores" or in- terstices between the "atoms," of which the tissues were supposed to be built up, " pores " through which the fluids were believed to move; they consequently made much use of baths, and of exercises probably akin to massage. Unfortunately, pseudo-scientific speculations were more attractive to those with literary in- clinations than was the description of surgical operations; but the remarkable collections of instruments made of late years at Pompeii, at Baden near Ziirich, and elsewhere, aff'ord incon- testable evidence of the high development of surgical art, and incidentally of the routine employment of the actual cautery for arresting hsemorrhage. The greatest of the Methodists was probably Soranus of Ephesus, who practised at Rome in the reigns of Trajan and Hadrian. A treatise, in Greek, on the Diseases of Women, the only work of the kind that has been preserved, is certainly his, and displays considerable practical acquaintance with the subject, and with the use of the speculum, an instrument commonly supposed to be a modern invention, though among those discovered in Pompeii. His other writings are lost; but the Latin works of Cselius Aurelianus, who lived three centuries later, are believed to have been little more than translations of those of Soranus. There were two minor schools, the Pneu- matics, who referred all vital and morbid phenomena to the operation of the "Pneuma," or nervous influence, and the Eclectics, who combined all they thought good in others. Cornelius Celsus, a Roman patrician of the first and second centuries, studied but did not practise medicine as a profession. His great work, De Medicind, is of the highest value as a history of medicine from the time of Hip- pocrates to his own days. It was written for the laity only, and is never quoted by medical authors; but though such a work must of necessity be largely a compilation, it is marked by wide erudition, a sound critical judgment, and a purity and elegance of style and diction that have made it the most generally read and popular of medical classics since its discovery in the fifteenth century. As Hippocrates, in the fifth century before Christ, was the founder of medicine, so Galen, a.d. 130-200, may be said to have reconstructed it, and his influence, though of slow growth, was supreme through- out the Middle Ages, yielding at last only to the rise of modern science in the eighteenth century. A man of good social position and a great traveller, a scholar, philosopher, and master of all the scientific knowledge of the day, he found the profession everywhere split