LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 59 far more satisfactory to allow a rapid—really momentary—dip into a full bath, the tempera- ture of the water—which should be cool-—being regulated according to the season, so as to avoid undue shock. The patient must be comfortably and rapidly dried thereafter, preferably by nurse or other assistant. The first indication of real improvement is often observed when such bathing is commenced. (6) Medication.—Certain drugs are of service as aids towards increasing tissue resistance and repairing loss. In the foreground should be mentioned cod-liver oil, which is an excellent way of administering fat. Many patients take the oil with relish. It is a common experience that patients treated on open-air lines enjoy it more and assimilate it more easily than under other conditions. The hypophosphites of sodium and lime, and various preparations of malt, may be given on similar grounds. Arsenic is likewise helpful, more particularly in young subjects; its exhibition may be usefully main- tained for long periods. Thus liq. arsenicalis may be conveniently added to an emiilsion of cod-liver oil, or arsenious acid may be given in pill (gr. ijV-ts")- Or arsenic may be exhibited in the form of cacodylate of sodium. Strychnine may similarly prove beneficial. Glycerine, which forms an agreeable addition to many mixtures, is of some direct value, and may be advantage- ously pushed from time to time. Nucleins and nucleic acid have been ad- ministered in various ways. Their exhibition has been suggested because of their tendency to induce leucocytosis and their bactericidal properties. They may thus be, perhaps, credited with power to increase the resistance of the tissues and to disturb the bacilli more directly. Effects produced by adoption of Physiological Measures already described.—Before considering specific measures, it may be well to summarise the effects produced by the procedure already described and to add a few words regarding sanatoria and climate. (a) General Appearance.—Within a week or so of the adoption of the open-air system, the patient's colour and general appearance alter. The look of delicacy is replaced by an aspect of robustness, such as one recognises on ship-board. In other words, much of the familiar appear- ance of the consumptive patient is the expression of unphysiological, protective treatment. (6) Appetite and Digestion. — The patient quickly loses his digestive disability, nausea, sickness, and oppression. Appetite returns in remarkable fashion, and the increased quantity of food is commonly enjoyed without after- discomfort. Fats and other food-stuflfs which previously were declined are taken freely. The bowel regains a healthy habit. (c) Weight.—Flesh is rapidly made ; as much as two to six pounds may be added in a week's time. Usually the gain is steady and pro- gressive. (d) Cough.—This disappears practically after a little time. Apart from the occasional necessity of expectoration, cough need not be heard. The cough which occurs so frequently when the disease is treated in snug, confined bedrooms is in large part the expression of irritation by reason of exhavisted or fouled air. (e) Expjectoration.—Sputum speedily lessens ; it tends to become moi'e and more mucous, until it may finally disappear. Haemoptysis seldom occurs. (/) Night-Sweats.—This classic symptom dis- appears entirely. Before the commencement of treatment, patients may have sweated much— being changed four or five times in a night— and yet in three or four days' treatment, apart from special drugs, the manifestation disappears. Night-sweating must be regarded in chief part as an expression of faulty treatment. {g) Circulation.—Ihe pulse-rate lessens and each beat becomes more forcible. The blood- pressure generally is raised. It is no uncommon thing to record in 10-14 days a reduction in rate to the extent of 20-30 beats per minute, along with corresponding improvement in char- acter. Coldness of extremities and shiveriness similarly disappear. {h) Temjjerature.—Within a week or two— or at most a month or so—temperatures which have been swinging violently approximate the normal. In many cases the normal temperature is still more quickly reached ; the exceptional cases which resist are few. Sanatoria.—The therapeutic measures which have been described so far are most conveniently carried out in a sanatorium. The patient is taken more thoroughly in hand, strict regularity is introduced into his life, and slight aberrations from the path of recovery are quickly noted. Sanatorium regime must be credited with not only immediate therapeutic advantage, but also educative value of first moment for the rest of the patient's life. From the latter point of view, indeed, it is a wise plan to let a patient undergo sound sanatorium regime for some months, even if it is inconvenient to let him complete the cure. It must be kept in view, however, that the necessary measures may be practised at home, if the medical attendant have sufficient knowledge of, and faith in, the methods. In such case it is an enormous benefit if a nurse trained in the methods be in attendance on the case. It is unnecessary here to name individual sanatoria. Suffice it to say that well-managed sanatoria exist in every division of the United Kingdom and in many European countries. Having regard to the appalling frequency of the disease, there is room for much larger provision. More especially is there need for an increased number of sanatoria for the poorer classes, in-