MEASLES 228 pinker, and more discrete than those of measles; while the rash, being more transient, is conse- quently followed by less staining, though more peeling. Other peculiarities of the rotheln eruption are that it is not infrequently absent from the face altogether, and that on the lower part of the tri;nk, forearms, and legs, the spots tend to early coalescence—in which case large erythematous patches may be formed resembling the rash of scarlet fever. It must be remem- bered that in post-scarlatinal measles the pre- emptive stage is freqviently wanting. Its differentiation from rotheln may then be ex- tremely difficult, if not impossible, in an isolated case. Any difficulty which may be experienced in the differentiation between measles and scarlet fever can usually be cleared up by attention to the following points. In scarlet fever the attack is usually ushered in with vomiting; the rash appears within a few hours of invasion, attended with marked faucial inflammation, tender en- largement of the glands beneath the jaw, and more or less discomfort in swallowing; while the tongue, even if it does not present the characteristic strawberry appearance, should show some evidence of peeling. The tempera- ture declines gradually with the rash, instead of falling suddenly within about twenty-four hours after its full development. The eruption is represented on the face by a simple vivid flush, the circumoral region remain- ing pale and uninvaded. It is never macular on the palms or soles, but is simply erythema- tous. The individual papules of the eruption are smaller aud more closely aggregated, and though the papular element in parts may be well developed, the surface of the skin generally is flushed. As the hypertemia subsides, a uni- form staining of a greenish-yellow tint remains without any suggestion of mottling. The sub- sequent peeling is usually more pronounced and presents the " pin-hole" characters which are associated with scarlet fever. Definite naso- respiratory catarrh is absent, while the super- vention of either rheumatism, adenitis, or albuminuria is confirmatory of scarlet fever. Smallpox in the early papular stage is occa- sionally mistaken for measles. The complaint of severe lumbar pain during the pre-eruptive stage or the occurrence of a rigor should lead to a suspicion of smallpox, which would be strengthened should the temperature immedi- ately fall on the appearance of the rash. The smallpox eruption can usually be felt by the hand before it can be clearly recognised by the eye, whereas the measles rash is macular from the onset, and has a velvety feel to the touch, quite different from the shotty sensation im- parted by that of smallpox. The catarrhal symptoms usually present in measles would, of course, be absent in smallpox. Treatment.—No known drug has been proved to exert any specific influence over the course of the disease, and our treatment should have for its object the placing of the patient in the best position for undergoing the attack, and for warding off the various inflammatory complica- tions which are prone to supervene and seriously endanger life. The patient should be placed in a room sparsely furnished, freely ventilated, and adequately warmed. The temperature should not be allowed to fall below 60° nor rise above 70° at the most. The exclusion of direct draught from the patient should always be at- tempted ; this, however, is not always practi- cable in winter if, as it should be, the window be kept partly open at the top. The warming of the room is perfectly effected by means of the radiant heat of a good open fire. The light should be subdued, though not excluded, in view of the photophobia which is usually present. The eyes should be carefully ex- amined daily in a good light, so that the earliest sign of corneal implication might be detected, and the conjunctivte periodically bathed with weak boric lotion. The patient should be en- couraged to blow his nose at intervals, in order to clear out as far as possible the nasal passages; and should there be any sign of earache, tin- nitus, or deafness, it is well to gently irrigate the nasal passages with weak saline, Condy's fluid, or boric lotion, in order to diminish the chance of inflammation extending up the Eus- tachian tube, and involving the middle ear. Should there be evidence of Eustachian stenosis, it is wiser not to use the Politzer bag during the acute catarrhal stage, but the drum should be examined daily, and punctured at once should any bulging be detected. The presence of otalgia calls for the four-hourly irrigation of the external canal with a warm solution of some antiseptic, such as boric or carbolic acid (1 in 80), and this should be rigorously main- tained after the drum has been punctured, or on the spontaneous appearance of otorrhoea. If the pain be severe, and the child fretful, the application of a hot poppy fomentation over the ear will often give relief; or should this fail, the installation of a few drops of liquor atropise containing 5 per cent of hydrochlorate of cocaine will usually be successful. Laryngeal irritation is best relieved by the inhalation of steam, or by the application to the larynx of hot fomentations or a sponge frequently wrung out of hot water containing a little turpentine. Should the breathing become actually stridulous, it may be due to acuteness of the catarrh, in which case the above measures, with the addition of an expec- torant containing a few drops of tinct. camph. CO. and glycerine, will probably be sufficient; but the likelihood of diphtheria supervening should never be forgotten. Under these cir- cumstances, diphtheria antitoxin in full dose must be at once injected and the injection