53 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS manner of life (overcrowding, unhealthy occu- pation). It is convenient to speak of (A) Public measures of prophylaxis; (B) Pi-ivate mea- sures. A. Public Measures.—The significance of these to every community, large or small, is illustrated by what has been said previously regarding the enormous mortality from pulmonary tubercu- losis, the frequency with which the disease affects persons at the working ages, the long duration of the illness, and the physical and financial bankruptcy to which it commonly leads. Much encouragement to the adoption of these is afforded by the striking reduction in mortality which has been experienced during the past quarter of a century. During that period the mortality has fallen in this country by almost one-third. The public measures include—(1) General measures of improved sanitation. Local autho- rities have already large powers in this direction, and they must be urged to use them. Citizens must be made to understand that wisely-devised measures for the increase of sunlight and air throughout cities and towns are worth spending money on. City improvements in the way of removing narrow streets and crowded insanitary quarters and sunless areas should be faced, even when costly. Sanction should be refused to the building of long rows of lofty tenements in streets too narrow to admit either air or sunlight. The acquiring and preservation of open spaces, gardens and parks, in the vicinity of our towns is to be advocated on economic grounds. More must be made of such parks and gardens by the erection of shelters and screened seats. A considerable part of the open-air treatment— especially in its prophylactic aspect—might in that way be carried out by our municipalities and councils. The inspection of lodging-houses, workshops, factories, offices, and all places of assembly should be more stringent. Public conveyances —cabs, cars, omnibuses, railway carriages—want looking to. Street and other cleaning must be conducted on sound lines. No sweeping of streets must be permitted which produces clouds of dust among the passengers, and sends germ- laden dust through open windows and doors. It is easy to render street cleaning harmless by watering the streets previous to brushing them. The public measures include—(2) Measures directed especially against the tubercle bacillus. In the foreground, it is desirable that the people should be informed in simple, but definite, fashion regarding tuberculosis and its preventa- bility. Some ten years ago, the writer prepared a statement on these lines for distribution among hospital out-patients. As it has served as the model of a number of others, it may be con- veniently quoted here. Rules for Consumptive Patients and those looking after them. {Arranged for the Victoria Hospital for Con- sumption, Edinburgh, January 1, 1891.) Consumption is a communicable disease. It may pass from person to person. It may pass from one lung to the other, or from one organ to another. The chief source of infection is the expectora- tion of the consumptive. The great danger lies in the drying of the expectoration, and the blowing about of the dried infectious material. The spread of consumption can be largely prevented. If the succeeding directions be obeyed, there need be no serious danger in ordinnry inter- course with patients. The breath of the consump- tive is not directly infectious. The patient should expectorate into a jar or cup containing a table-spoonful of carbolic acid (1 to 20) or other disinfectant. The vessel should be changed once in twelve hours or oftener. It should be cleansed by being filled up with boiling water. The combined con- tents should be poured down the water-closet. The vessel should then be washed with boiling water. When the patient is out of doors, he should carry a pocket spitting flask (such as Dettweiler's, or the Victoria Hospital simpler model). The flask should be used and cleansed like the jar. The patient should never spit on the streets. The patient should not use handkerchiefs for expectoration. If this ever has to be done, the handkerchief should be of an inexpensive material, that it may be burned after use. Squares of rag or paper, which may be used for convenience, should be similarly treated. The expectoration should on no account be swallowed, for thereby the disease may pass to other organs. Consumptive patients should avoid kissing. Consumptive mothers should not suckle. If expectoration has been accidentally de- posited on the floor or other object, it should be wiped up and burned, and the surface of the object cleansed with strong disinfectant. Rooms which have been long occupied by a consumptive patient should, before occupation by some one else, be carefully disinfected, as after other infectious disease. Fresh Air is the food of the lungs. There- fore see that the lungs be not starved. (a) By Day.—The patient should occupy as airy a I'oom as possible. It must be scrupu- lously dry, and preferably removed from the ground. The window should be freely open. When able, the patient should be out of doors once or several times during the day. He must avoid over-effort, and damp, or chill, which would counteract the benefit. (6) By Night.—He should sleep alone. The