407 MIDWIVES and regulations which have emerged from this Act. The Central Midwives Board.—The Mid- wives Act created a Central Midwives Board con- sisting of (1) four registered medical practi- tioners, of whom the Royal College of Physicians, the Royal College of Surgeons, the Society of Apothecaries, and the Incorporated Midwives' Institute each appoint one; (2) two persons appointed by the Lord President of the Council, of whom one is a woman; and (3) three persons of whom the Association of County Councils, Queen Victoria's Jubilee Institute of Nurses, and the Royal British Nurses' Association each appoint one. The individual members of the Board at present are named below :— The Board shall meet on the last Thursday in each month : the quorum shall be four ; and at each monthly meeting a financial statement shall be made by the secretary. The duties and powers of the Board include the framing of rules for the training and examining of candidates for the certificate, the appointing of examiners, the fixing of the places where examinations are to be held and of the times when they are to be held, the publication of an annual Roll of Midwives, the removal of names from the Roll, and the issuing and cancelling of certificates. The Board shall also receive reports from the local supervising authorities ("Every council of a county or county borough throughout England and Wales shall, on the commencement of this Act, be the local supervising authority over midwives within the area of the said county or county borough ") regarding the midwives practising in the areas supervised by these authorities. Conditions of Certification. — The condi- tions of admission to the Roll of Midwives, as laid down by the C.M.B., are as follow :—The applicant must supply a certificate of birth or of baptism, or a statutory declaration made by a competent person, showing that she (the applicant) is not luider twenty-one years of age, and, where the candidate has been married, the certificate of marriage as well. She must also send in a certificate of good moral character which must be worded according to the form supplied by the Board. She must show certi- ficates to the eff'ect that she has had the train- ing prescribed by the Board, and the certificates must be as follow :— Form III.—Certificate of Attendance on Cases. (See Section C 1 (1) above.) I certify that (to whom this certificate refers) has, under my supervision, and to my satisfaction, attended and watched the progress of not fewer than twenty labours, making abdominal and vaginal examinations during the course of labour, and personally delivering the patient. Dated this day of 19 Name Address Position and authority for signing Signature of applicant Lord President of the Council, Lord President of the Council. Royal College of Physicians. Royal College of Surgeons. Society of Apothecaries. Incorporated Midwives' Institute. Association of County Councils. Queen Victoria's Jubilee Institute for Nurses. Royal British Nurses' Association. 3n House, Westminster, S. W. Form IV.—Certificate of Attendance during the Lying-in Period. (See Section C 1 (2) above.) I certify that (to whom this certificate refers) has, under my supervision, and to my satisfaction, nursed twenty lying-in women during the ten days following labour. Dated this day of 19 Name Address Position and authority I for signing j Signature of applicant Form V.—Certificate of having Attended a Course of Instruction. (See Section C 1 (3) above.) I certify that (to whom this certificate refers) has attended, to mj satisfaction, a course of instruction in the subjects enumerated in Rule C 4, extending over a period of not less than three months, and consisting of not less than fifteen lectures, and has shown that she possesses sufficient elementary education to enable her to read and to take notes of cases. Dated this day of 19 Name Address Professional Qualifications Position and authority ) for signing j Signature of applicant MEMBERS. W. J. Sinclair, M.D. Miss Jane Wilson F. H. Champneys, M.D. (Chairman) J. Ward Cousins, F.R.C.S. E. Parker Young, M.R.C.S. W. R, Dakin, M.D. . H. G. FORDHAM, D.L., J.P. . . Miss Rosalind Paget .... ^ Mrs. Josephine Latter . . . ) s. Secretary—G. W. Duncan, Esq., Caxtc