298 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE action the nervous apparatus concerned in active volition, or in the production of the conscious state. This is possible by reason of a law which may be called a law of organic suggestion, by means of which any number of a series of com- plicated acts suggests the next. It depends, however, on the memory of the previous action. To ilhistrate this law let us suppose that sensory cell A for a particular expert action calls up the action of motor cell 1, that 1 calls up 2, and 2 calls up 3, 3 calls up 4, and so on—on each stimulation of A cells 1, 2, 3, and 4 are called up in their order, and the expert action is produced. A constant result is produced by the same primary impulse. This is the result when the action has become stable and has become completely automatic—perfect memory ; but an action which has become automatic may be imperfectly performed by reason of the fact that it may be confused with another action very like it, but not exactly similar. For instance, sensory cell A may for this action require to call up 2 instead of 1, 2 call up 3, and 3 call up 4—or the arrangement may be reversed, viz., A may reqviire to call up 4, 4 call up 3, 3 call up 2, and 2 call up 1, and so on, the result being that sometimes cell A may call up the wrong motor cell, and another movement closely resembling the movement intended is produced. One sees this in a marked form in the pronouncing of words beginning with the same letter and closely resembling each other; letters are sometimes transposed, as in pro- nouncing the word "burn" a person may say "brun." Familiar examples will occur to readers in the catch phrases which are sometimes repeated rapidly for amusement, such as " Peter Piper picked a peck of pepper." In his haste the individual transposes letters and syllables. This fact shows us that, as like movements are apt to be substituted for each other, one of the best ways to displace one automatic memory is to substitute one like it for it. Displace an old bad habit by means of a new good one closely resembling it. In an early part of this paper I stated that a perfect memory consisted of three distinct acts, viz.—(1) Preservation of certain states, i.e. fixation of the memory in the cell. (2) Repro- duction of the same states, i.e. revival in memory. (3) Recognition of these states, i.e. localising them in tissue. Let us consider each of these processes in order :— I. Fixation in Memory.—As I have previously stated, fixation consists in the production of an effect on a nerve-cell or groups of cells, which to a certain extent is a permanent effect. When these cells are acted on in the same way, as previously, they are apt to functionate in the same way. This applies not only to the motor, but also to the sensory cells, and to the com- plicated series of cells on a higher level, the more truly psychical and associational cells. There are four essentials of a perfect fixation of a memory, viz.—first, the health and nutrition of the cells must be good; second, the impres- sion must be of sufficient intensity; third, it must be of sufficient duration; fourth, it must be accompanied by attention. The first depends on the state of the cell; the second and third, on the nature and quality of the impression or nerve impulse; and the fourth, on the attention or most active consciousness of the individual. With reference to the first, I have already pointed out how necessary it is to have the cell in a healthy state if memory is to be good, because the process of acquiring a memory is itself a nutritional process. The second and third may be taken together, because when impressions last a certain length of time they are made up of more than one separate impres- sion, and the result of the impressions depends on the sum of the individual impressions. Duration therefore reduces itself to the intensity of the sum of the separate impi-essions. But duration and intensity are very much aided by the exercise of attention. The process of paying- attention to anything is still very imperfectly understood : but, as is well known, in our wakeful state there is constantly passing through our mind a wave, on the crest of which is either the abstract thought, the perception, the con- ception, etc., which is engaging our immediate attention; whilst on the receding part of the wave are the thoughts, the perceptions, and conceptions receding gradually out of our attention; and in the front of the wave, the thoughts, perceptions, and conceptions which are gradually coming into our attention. What is on the crest one second is receding the next, but we are still conscious of its presence, although it gradually gets more dim and obscure. If this were not so, our wakeful state would have no continuity. It would be made up of isolated states of consciousness. Attention, therefore, in order to secure fixation in the memory, is almost essential for voluntary recollection, as those engaged in the education of children know so well. Whether it is possible for a person to have a memory fixed without attention at all is doubtful. Several cases have been recorded where very little attention could have been paid to the original impression. Taine quotes M. Maury, who says : " There often occurred to my mind, without my knowing why, three proper names, each accompanied by the name of a town in France. One day I came across an old newspaper and commenced to read it for want of anything better to do. Among the advertisements I saw one of a depot of mineral waters with the names of the druggists who sold them in the principal towns of France. There I found my three unknown names, with those of the three towns with which they were connected in my mind. All was explained ! My memory, which