MASTODYNIA 216 Mastodynia. — Pain in the breast; mastalgia or mastopathy. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Neuralgia). Mastoid. — Literally, mastoid means breast-shaped or nipple-like; the name is generally reserved for a part and for a process of the temporal bone {inastoid portion, process), for the cavity it contains {mastoid cavity), for the cells in it {mastoid cells), for inflammation with supjjnration in these cells {mastoid abscess), for the operative interference pursued in such cases [mastoid ope7-ation), and for an opening in the bone for the passage of a vein (mastoid forame7i). Compound words are formed with mastoid- as their basis, such as mastoideocentesis (perforation of the mastoid for disease), mastoid- otomy (incision of the mastoid antrum or cells), etc. See Brain, Surgery of {Cerebral Abscess, Diagnosis); Ear, Examination of {Anatomy and Physiology); Ear, Middle, Acute Inflam- mation (Causes); Ear, Middle, Chronic Sup- puration (Diseases of the Mastoid Process); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphatic Glands, Mastoid); Orbit, Diseases OF (Thrombosis of Cavernous Si7ius); Skin- Grafting (Suitable Cases, Mastoid Fistuloe). Mastoiditis. — Inflammation of the mastoid cells. See Ear, Middle, Acute and Chronic Inflammation (Diseases of the Mastoid Process). The name Bezold's Mastoiditis has been given to cases in which the apex of the process is destroyed and in which there is a tendency to the formation of a cervical abscess. Mastopexy.—An operation for the fixation of a pendulous or displaced breast (Gr. /xao-Tos, breast, TreKw, I clip). Masturbation. See also Anthelmin- tics (Symptoms of Thread- Worms) ; Circumci- sion ; Epilepsy (Etiology); Scrotum and Tes- ticle, Diseases of (Impotence); Spermatorrhcea ; Sterility ; Vice (Sexual Perversions). Masturbation is the artificial excitement and gratification of sexual passion. It is most fre- quently met with in youth, especially in boys about puberty, but some pronounced mastur- bators are married persons of both sexes, who masturbate notwithstanding full facilities for normal intercourse. Occasionally in very young children a kind of sexual orgasm is induced by very slight irritation, such as is entailed in handling the parts or by phimosis ; while this is not true masturbation, too much care and attention cannot be paid to the detection and correction of this habit, as there is no doubt that it predisposes to masturbation in later years. Masturbation in women is more frequent than is commonly supposed. It is associated not rarely with the nervous irritability, wayward fancies, and nondescript ailments of hysterical girls, and the habits, amusements, and literature of certain classes of society are too apt to en- courage the vice. About the age of thirty-three, when the chance of marriage is getting faint, and again about the climacteric, some people experience great sexual irritability, of which this practice is too often the result (Yellowlees). Not infrequently, however, the habit is more or less consciously acquired at or about the age of puberty. The following extract of a letter received by the writer from a yoiuig lady who complained of general depression and slight leucorrhoea, is strikingly characteristic :—" I was so sorry I did not tell you something yesterday which has been weighing on my mind. When I was small I gave way to a bad habit, and I find it more and more diflicult to give up; I had no idea it would do me any harm till I grew older, and then my common-sense told me it would. Would you let me know what you think about it when you write to me in London ? If it really is the cause, I suppose nothing else can be done, and all I can hope for is to die as quickly as possible." This extract illustrates well some of the bad results of the habit—a state of mental depression which is exceedingly difficult, and in some cases well-nigh impossible to eradicate. The same condition in boys in- duces in the early stages, not so much a state of depression, as a shifty unstraightforward ap- pearance which may be very characteristic. In either sex and at any age, when the habit is persisted in and allowed to dominate the indi- vidual, moral and mental degeneration inevitably follows, and progresses, slowly it may be, but surely to mental dissolution. Treatment.—While it is easy to formulate correct laws as to treatment, it is comparatively rare to find them effectively applied. It is probably, as a rule, unwise to treat confessions from appai'ently healthy individuals in too serioTis a manner. We should rather point out to them the undesirable results which must inevitably result from a continued gratification of an animal instinct in an irregular manner; they should at the same time be directed to get their minds thoroughly occupied with other and more wholesome subjects. The indulgence in muscular exercises of a kind congenial to the patient, and to an extent sufficient to induce physiological fatigue, is one powerful remedy in this direction. Care must, however, be taken in the recommendation, e.g. the patient before referred to could not cycle as the movement was a prejudicial one. In all cases, then, greater benefit will accrue from this line of treatment than by any other which looks too closely to the merely moral aspects of the question. In addition, ordinary tonic remedies directed to impress the general muscular relaxation and nervous weakness will be of great service. With regard to local treatment, few woi'ds must suffice. Counter-irritation, as by blistering fluid.