437 MISO- gamy (hatred of marriage), misogyny (hatred of women), misopoedia (dislike of children), and misozoia (hatred of life, or melancholia with a tendency to suicide). Missed Abortion.Abortion {Deferred). "Missing: Link."—A hypothetical ani- mal supposed to have existed as the intermediate type between man and the lower animals. See Anthropology ; Hirsuties ; Homo Caudatus ; Pithecanthropus. Mist. See Meteorology {Fog and Mist). Mist lira..—A pharmaceutical preparation containing one or more drugs dissolved in or diffused through a liquid (water or gum); the dose is always ^ to 1 oz. There are several 7nistur(B in the British Pharmacopoeia, such as mistura ferri composita, mistura cretce, mistura ammoniaci, mistura creosoti, etc. See Pre- scribing. Mitchell, Weir.—Weir Mitchell's treat- ment is the rest cure, or residence in a nursing home with deprivation of letters, telegrams, and the visits of friends, and with massage, abund- ant food (milk), and (sometimes) electricity. See Neurasthenia. Weir Mitchell's disease is erythromelalgia (q.v.). Mithridatism. — An artificially pro- duced condition in which there is supposed to be immunity to a poison, caused by the administration of gradually increasing doses ; a mithridate was the term formerly given to a mixture (an electuary) which was regarded as a universal antidote to poisons or diseases. The term is derived from Mithridates, King of Pontus, who was believed to have made himself proof against poisons by the constant taking of antidotes; he perished by the sword {circa B.C. 63). Mitome.—The denser part of the proto- plasm of a cell or nucleus, existing in the form of fibrils (Gr. /aitos, a thread). Mitosis. — Indirect cellular division or caryocinesis {q.v.), often written karyokinesis ; the nucleus of the cell enlarges, the centrosome becomes double and forms the spindle, the nucleus and spindle unite to form the monaster, and then the diaster stage is reached and the nucleus is divided into two. See Physiology, Cell {Reproduction of Cells, Mitosis). An atypical or asymmetric mitosis is found in the cells of malignant growths. Mitral Valve. See Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Special Pathology, Valvular Affections, Symptomatology, Mitral Stenosis and Incompetence). See also Brain, Affections of IBlood-Vessels {Cerebral Emholism, Causes); Lungs, Vascular Disorders of {Pulmonary Emholism). "MittelSChmerz."—The midpain or intermenstrual dysmenorrhcea. See Menstrua- tion and its Disorders {Dysmenorrhcea); Colic {Diagnosis). Mixed Feeding.—This term is applied specially to that form of infant feeding in which maternal nursing is supplemented or assisted by artificial feeding ; a combination of breast feed- ing and bottle feeding. See Infant Feeding {B7'east Feeding). Mnemonica.—The art of remembering ; memoria technica. Mobilisation. — The undoing of an anchylosis or the loosening of adhesions, e.g. the mobilisation of the stapes in the treatment of middle-ear disease. See Ear, Middle : Chronic Non-suppurative Disease {Treatment). Mobility.—Freedom of movement, e.g. in cases of displacement of the uterus {see Uterus, Displacements) or of diseased joints {see Joints, Diseases of). Modum. See Balneology {Norway and Sweden, Mud-Baths). MoebiUS' Disease.—Periodic attacks of paralysis of the motor oculi or third cranial nerve. Moebius' Syndrome.—Acinesia algera {q.v.). Moeller's Disease.—infantile scurvy or Barlow's Disease. See Scurvy, Infantile {Synojiyms). Moeller's Glossitis. — A superficial affection of the epithelium of the tongue characterised by irregular reddish spots; it resembles "geographical tongue." See Tongue {Glossitis, Superficial). MofTat. See Balneology {Great Britain); Mineral Waters {Sulphur). Mogigraphia.— Writer's cramp (Gr. ^oyts, with difficulty, ypa^to, I write). See Neuroses, Occupation {Scrivener's Palsy). Mogilalia.—Difi&culty of speech; stam- mering or stuttering. See Stammering. MogOStOCia.—Dystocia {q.v.). M. O. H.—The contraction for Medical Officer of Health as applied to the official, a medical practitioner, who assists in carrying out the administration of the sanitary law of the country. See Sewage and Drainage ; Ventila- tion AND Warming ; Vital Statistics ; etc.