NEPHRITIS 541 already described, and call for brief considera- tion. The onset of scarlatinal nephritis is generally marked by definite symptoms, although it occasionally appears to commence insidiously. As a rule there is some rise of temperature. This may be very slight, and occurs most com- monly towards the end of the second or during the third week. The initial pyrexia may be preceded by headache, loss of appetite, and pallor, which may be associated with constipa- tion. These symptoms are frequently followed closely by rapid diminution in the quantity of urine passed, by alteration of its specific gravity, and by the appearance of albumin and blood in the water. In exceptional epidemics there appears to be little reason to doubt that scarla- tinal nephritis may occur without albuminuria ; at all events, numerous observations have been made of cases of dropsy without albuminuria. Dropsy. — General oedema may be the first symptom to attract notice, and it is more com- mon in cases marked by total or relative sup- pression of urine. The oedema is usually first noted around the eyes, and it may rapidly extend so that after a few hours the child is almost unrecognisable. In severe cases, when the dropsy is general and extreme, fissures may form and lead to extensive excoriations. Al- though the cedematous condition is not generally associated with discomfort other than that due to the limitation of movement, yet tenderness may be complained of when the tension is great. Both Caiger and Turner, speaking from experi- ence of cases treated within fever hospitals, find that dropsy is not a prominent symptom when scarlatinal nephritis develops while the patient is continually under observation in the wards. The abdominal cavity may become affected by dropsical eff"usion, and occasionally similar collections of fluid may be found in the pleui'a and pericardium. These may cause great anxiety, since there is a marked tendency for inflammatory effusions to become purulent, a tendency which is greater than that in acute nephritis. Circulatory System.—The alterations of the pulse with the initial rise of temperature have been already mentioned. As the disease pro- gresses the pulse generally becomes more slow and perhaps irregular, while the tension is in- creased. Henoch regards irregularity of the pulse as an indication of danger from ursemia. With cases which tend to the establishment of chronic nephritis the pulse undergoes but little improvement; in fact, a continued high tension may frequently be taken as an indication of permanent renal changes. Cardiac hypertrophy is one of the most common forms of circulatoi-y change in connection with scarlatinal nephritis. In a large majority of cases the apex beat of the heart is in quite an early stage displaced out- wards and downwards. When cases of scarla- tinal nephritis are undergoing improvement the apex beat quickly returns to its original site. The rapidity with which this occurs favours the idea that the displacement of the apex beat may, to a large extent, be due to dilatation rather than hypertrophy. Cardiac dilatation adds to the danger, as it favours pulmonary changes; it is frequently followed by oedema of the lung and by urgent dyspnoea. The onset of acute cardiac dilatation may sometimes be recognised by the alteration in the character of the pulse, which becomes rapid, thready, and weak. Respiratory System.—CEdema of the lung con- stitutes one of the greatest dangers of scarlatinal nephritis. Pneumonia and pleurisy are frequent, and, as already noted, the tendency of pleuritic effusion to become purulent is very marked. UrcBmia. — The indications of ursemia are particularly prone to occur in connection with scarlatinal nephritis, and they are extremely difficult to differentiate from many of the symp- toms referred to above. In all probability the apathy, sickness, headache, restlessness, and dyspnoea are the expression of ursemic poisoning, and these symptoms are most common when there is marked diminution in the amount of urine eliminated. Severe symptoms of urtemia, however, may occur independently of reduction in the quantity of water passed, and may even arise in dropsical cases when, after temporary suppression, the excretion appears to have been fairly re-established. This has been explained by the reabsorption of nitrogenous material from the subcutaneous tissues. Although ursemia necessarily adds largely to the risk of scarlatinal nephritis, it does not appear to be so frequently fatal as in other forms of nephritis. Course and Duration. — Under appropriate treatment improvement speedily follows in a large majority of cases, the improvement being most marked towards the end of the first week from the commencement of the symptoms. Albumm, however, is usually found in the water long after other symptoms have passed away. Indeed, albuminuria sometimes continues from four to six weeks ; if the albumin lasts longer, chronic nephritis has probably become estab- lished. The steady improvement is occasionally interrupted by relapses; the water becomes again very small in amount, high-coloured and albuminous, and more rarely the dropsy under- goes similar marked increase. Only a small proportion of cases pass directly into chronic nephritis. The majority recover completely in from two to three weeks. On the other hand, when scarlatinal nephritis has once occurred, the liability to subsequent attacks of nephritis is more marked. Chronic Nephritis.—It is only in exceptional cases that the transition from acute nephritis to chronic nephritis can be watched, so that the clinical picture is complete in all its details;