MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 308 Blood may be effused into the meninges, generally into the subarachnoid region, from rupture of aneurysms on the larger cerebral vessels, especially at the base; haemorrhages into the cortex sometimes, but somewhat rarely, open externally into the subarachnoid spaces Meningeal hsemorrhages may also occur under the same conditions as general intracerebral haemorrhage (vide " Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels," vol. i. p. 475). In some blood diseases {e.g. purpura, scurvy, pernicious anaemia), subdural haemorrhages of considerable size have been found. The condition known as haematoma of the dura mater, which occurs with special frequency in the insane, will be considered separately {v. infra). Symptoms.—Initial loss of consciousness may be present or absent. If present, as is the rule in traumatic cases from the direct eft'ect of the concussion, it often disappears and the patient may complain of nothing but headache for a few hours or even several days, when somnolence comes on, gradually deepening to coma. A special feature in some cases is great pain in the head, due probably to pressure on the nerves of the dura mater. Motor symptoms are gener- ally present, although it is often very difficult to recognise them while the patient is comatose. Usually they begin and are most prominent on one side of the body, viz., that opposite to the side on which the haemorrhage is taking place ; but as the haemorrhage may extend over to the other side so as to injure the motor region of the cortex, the symptoms may and often do become bilateral. Thus, hemiplegia is frequently found, and later the paresis may be found to affect both sides of the body. Still more promi- nent, however, are convulsions, often starting locally in the limbs or face on the opposite side to that on which the haemorrhage is occurring, and later becoming general. The state of the pupils is very variable, but often the pupil on the side of the haemorrhage is dilated and insensible to light. Sensory symptoms {e.g. hemianaesthesia, tingling in limbs, hemianopsia) are much less common than motor symptoms. Aphasia is not uncommon, and there may be very considerable mental disturbance with de- lirium and violence. Death usually occurs in coma. In some cases, more especially those in which the haemorrhage is due to rupture of a large vessel at the base, there is rapid develop- ment of deep apoplexy, paralysis, and flaccidity of all limbs, convulsions, coma, and death in a few hours. The diagnosis of meningeal haemorrhage is often difficiilt, or even impossible. Where cere- bral haemorrhage is suspected, trauma as an etiological factor is of great importance, as trau- matic haemorrhage is most commonly in the meninges, especially in young people. Among the symptoms, the pain in the head and the frequency of convulsions perhaps deserve special mention. Attempts have been made to dis- tinguish on clinical grounds between extradural and subdural haemorrhage: in the latter the onset of general compression symptoms is usu- ally much more rapid, while the localising symptoms are usually much less distinct and of shorter duration. The prognosis in each case depends largely on its etiology. In cases of rupture of a large vessel at the base the result is rapidly fatal. In traumatic cases, if the extravasation is not a large one, recoA'ery may take place, but it is slow and usually incomplete, a certain amount of hemiplegia and often mental impairment re- maining ; where the extravasation is large and deepening coma is present, the prognosis is very grave unless there is prompt surgical inter- ference, but cases are met with in which spon- taneous improvement unexpectedly occurs. Treatment.—Excellent results have been ob- tained within recent years by operation; this applies, of course, mainly to traumatic cases, although extravasations not traumatic in origin have been similarly treated. The details of the operation are given elsewhere {vide "Brain, Surgery of," vol. i.). Apart from operation, the treatment does not differ from that of cerebral haemorrhage generally. Hematoma of the Dura Mater {Syn. Haemor- rhagic Internal Pachymeningitis; Meningeal Blood Tumour; Subdural False Membrane).— These various names have been given by differ- ent authorities to a peculiar formation in the subdural space, which, while comparatively rare in the mentally sound, is of very frequent oc- currence in cases of chronic insanity (especially general paralysis and senile insanity) and chronic alcoholism. It is also said to have been found in certain blood diseases, in some of the acute fevers, in infantile scurvy, etc. Morbid Anatomy.—The naked-eye appearance of the condition varies very much. In some cases there is simply a delicate vascular mem- brane lining the dura. In other cases the formation is much thicker, of a rusty colour and soft, somewhat gelatinous consistence; it is generally very vascular, and often presents signs of haemorrhage into its substance—indeed, in many cases, all that can be detected with the naked eye is a layer of blood-clot, often lami- nated, which may reach a thickness of half an inch or more. The formation is always adherent to the dura mater, although it is as a rule easily detached ; it is almost never adherent to the pia arachnoid. It is most frequent over the upper and lateral aspects of the brain, and is usually unilateral; it often covers almost the entire surface of the intracranial dura, and the spinal dura is also frequently involved. With regard to t\iQ pathology of this condition, there are two great contending views. Accord- ing to the one view, which is adopted by most authorities in this country, the whole process is