LUNACY 18 than half the present total cost of maintenance in private dwellings. There is a suspicion that so long as the responsibility for the insane continues divided, in so far as the District Lunacy Boards provide the accommodation, and Parish Councils find the patients and pay for their maintenance in asylums, the utilisation of the private dwelling so sparingly made by im- portant counties, as revealed by anomalies ex- pressed by percentages as divergent as 47 and 6, will not be taken advantage of to anything like its real capacity. A critic in the Journal of Mental Science for 1901 with some justifica- tion says: " It is but little use urging the extension of this practice upon the authority which is liable solely for the maintenance of the patients in order to curtail the expenditure of another authority (the District Lunacy Board) which is charged with the responsibility of providing the necessary accommodation. The stimulus is too indirect, and the weakness lies in the division of responsibility." Of late. Parish Councils have been taking action with the view of obtaining representation on District Asylum Boards. Of the 2700 insane, from 800 to 900 are to be found in small colonies in Fife, Stirling, Lanark, Perth, and Ayr. The highest number in any single colony is 40 and the lowest about 10. It is felt that the percentage of insane to population should not, as a rule, exceed 5 per cent. In a rural village, unless the circum- stances are exceptional, this is a high enough proportion ; but in rural districts, in which the patients have neither contact with others of their own class nor with members of the com- munity, the distance between farmhouses being considerable, the question of pei'centage to population does not assume the same import- ance. The Scottish percentages are far below those obtaining in towns and villages in France, Belgium, and Russia. The forms of mental dis- order, congenital and acquired, are to be found in private dwellings in about equal proportions, but there is evidence that acquired insanity cases will in the future predominate. Patients find their way to the boarding-out register by two methods—as unrecovered discharges from the asylums and as intimations by inspectors of poor, a larger number being in the former category. The supervision is entrusted to the medical officer of the parish, who makes four visits annually; to the inspector of poor, who makes two; and Visiting Commissioner of the General Board, who makes one, and two in special cases and in the case of the colonies. The medical attendant and the parish official make entries at each visit in the visitation book kept by the guardian, and the Visiting Commissioner reports to the General Board. In terms of the directions of the General Board, punishment or restraint of any kind is forbidden in private dwellings. From what lias been written it will be appar- ent that the " boarding out" system of Scotland has had a long and successful history during the past forty-four years, and that such a system, mutatis mutandis, should have a distinct place in the lunacy administration of every country in which the individual treatment of the insane or the nearest possible approach to it, in which a normal existence as opposed to a conventional one, and in which the happiness and greater freedom of the patient among those of his own class, are aimed at. The present position of the system, as well as its extension, is also amply justified on economic grounds as well as by the singular immunity to the insane them- selves from those accidents incidental to the general and to asylum populations, and from special accidents of the sexual, suicidal, and homicidal order, and by a remarkable immunity from similar accidents to the communities in which they reside, whose amenities and safety cannot really be said to have suffered during the forty-four years of its history. With modifications of the Scottish plan and with diff"erences necessitated by social, economic, and ethnic considerations, colonies are to be found at Dun-sur-Auron, near Bourges, France, to which patients from Paris and its environs are sent; at Gheel and Lierneux in Belgium; at Dalldorf, Reinickendorff, Bernau, and Pots- dam in Germany; and at Ekaterinoslov, Moscow, and Krasnapolie in Russia. The aggregations in these colonies amount to as many as 2000, 500, 400, and 130, and to most of them a small hospital is attached, as well as several doctors, whose sole duties are to supervise and treat them in the urban, village, and rural homes alike. In Scotland, asylums are so near all the colonies that return to the asylum of the minatory, the refractory, the sick, or those who for any other good reason are permanently or temporarily unfitted for private care, becomes an easy matter. Financial Burden of Pauper Lunacy.— That this burden is to the country an enormous and an increasing one is well known. But what is still more significant, not only is this burden keeping pace with the growth of lunacy, but it is outstripping it. Costlier buildings are being put up, with internal decorations and equipment in harmony, and the cost of main- tenance is likewise advancing. But in spite of this, which cannot fail to be known to the tax- payer, and the dragging burden of interest on institutions already constructed, the expendi- ture goes merrily on. An asylum costing .£500 to £600 per patient is not considered out of the way. No other country, not even the United States, possesses anything like them. Whether such extravagant buildings are needed is seri- ously open to question. But the taxable capacity even of a rich and prosperous country has its limits, and the line will have to be