LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 33 other process whose leading expression is also dyspnoea. " Complementary" it may be, but hardly " compensatory." Dyspnoea may further be the expression of a complicating pleurisy with elFusion. In more urgent fashion, dyspnoea may appear suddenly through the production of a pneumo- thorax. The possibility of this accident must be anticipated, especially in cases which have pro- ceeded to vomica formation. Severe dyspnoea may be also induced by plugging (thrombosis, embolism) of a division of the pulmonary artery in relation to the stagnating circulation. From time to time phthisical patients suffer from paroxysmal exacerbations of dyspnoea through the supervention of asthma. Care must be taken that in the treatment of the one process the other is not lost sight of. Hoarseness.—Apart from actually tuberculous lesion of the larynx, patients are apt to manifest more or less disturbance of voice. In some instances it amounts to passing huskiness or hoarseness; in others it is rather a feebleness of voice with lack of clearness. It is an expression of reduced respiratory capacity, secondary anaemia, and general enfeeblement. In some cases it is an early and characteristic symptom. Laryngoscopic examination may show little, save pallor, lack of vitality, imperfect movement of cords, some degree of subacute or chronic catarrh. These, which constitute what has been doubtfully described as the pretuberculous condition of the larynx, are not insignificant. They merge into actually tuber- culous lesions, which are referred to later. There may be true paralysis of one or other cord, dependent on lesion of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the corresponding side (especially right, in relation to thickening and adherence of right apical pleura and pressure on nerve). It is a good rule to examine the larynx of every patient suffering from, or suspected of, pulmonary tuberculosis. Thereby the cause of a tickling, irritating cough may be discovered and rendered amenable to treatment. 2. Physical Signs In carrying out the physical examination of a patient, too much attention can hardly be devoted to inspection and palpation. Careful- ness in the use of these methods reveals far more as to the presence and distribution and duration of disease than is generally supposed. Visible and palpable defects of chest architecture either predisposing to, or dependent on, disease are frequent and significant. Of similar im- portance is limitation of thoracic excursion over one or other area. Again, local loss of muscular fulness and the occurrence of lines and furrows afford testimony to local disease, which is often missed. In the refinement of other methods, it may be feared that delicate precision in in- spection is sometimes neglected. VOL. VI In relation to pei-mssion, the normal limits of lung resonance, both superior and inferior, must be recalled. More especially, careful percussion of the supraclavicular triangle and the corre- sponding area posteriorly must be practised. Lung resonance should be sought for an inch and a half or more above the clavicle on each side. Percussion must also be practised with care laterally. The axillary areas are worthy of special attention. Changes are particularly common here in young subjects. Hyper-reso- nance is to be noted as carefully as percussion dulness. Patchy hyper-resonance is highly significant. The emphysematous change to which the hyper-resonance is referable is fre- quently complementary to consolidation, which may itself be directly obscured by the evidence of emphysematous change. In practising auscultation, the quality and character of the respiratory murmur are espe- cially to be studied. There is sometimes mani- fested a tendency to dwell too exclusively on the presence or absence of accompaniments. This is a mistake. Grave disease is frequently present without any accompaniments whatso- ever. Changes in relation to the respiratory murmur are of infinite variety and subtlety. The respiratory murmur should be carefully analysed—resolved into its two phases of in- spiration and expiration, and a judgment passed on each as to quality, length, etc., beginning preferably with expiration. Such analysis is of infinite significance in relation to diagnosis. The determination of accompaniments will be rendered easier and more exact if the prelimi- nary determination of quality and character of respiratory murmur be careful. Thereafter the state of vocal resonance will be found to afford important corroborative or corrective testimony. The physical signs vary endlessly under different conditions and in different stages of the disease. It will be convenient, therefore, to group them as follows:— {a) Physical Signs of Advancing Consolidation. (h) Physical Signs of Vomica Formation. (c) Physical Signs of Insipient Tuberculosis. (d) Physical Signs of Cicatrising Lung. (e) Physical Signs of Miliary Tuberculosis. The physical signs of pleurisy, pneumothorax and hydro- (pyo-) pneumothorax are considered elsewhere. (a) Physical Signs of Advanciiig Consolida- tion.—Inspection may determine chest deforma- tion, either general or local. General deforma- tion is illustrated by what is described as the paralytic thorax. This form is common enough among the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis. It must be understood, however, that tubercu- losis occurs frequently apart from this, in chests without evident initial departure from the normal. The so-called paralytic chest (badly termed phthinoid) is conspicuously long and