411 MIDWIVES the eyes however slight, serious skin eruptions, and inflammation about the navel." A 1907 alteration of this rule has reference to perineal tears, and reads as follows : " You should regard any tear of the perineum as generally serious, and in all cases the perineum should be care- fully and thoroughly examined immediately after labour." The Central Midwives Board has given very precise directions as to the calling in of medical help, and has enumerated, as has been shown, a long list of conditions in which it is obligatory so to do; hwt no provision has been made for the fulfilment of the conditions so far as the medical profession is concerned, and no directions as to the remuneration of the medical prac- titioner are as much as named. The result has already been the development of a somewhat chaotic state of practice. An amendment to the Act is urgently needed dealing with the question of the payment of fees to medical practitioners called in to abnormal cases. Dr. Niven, Medical Officer of Health for Manchester, in a report on the working of the Act, states that so far only two local supervising authori- ties, those of Liverpool and of Cardiff, have adopted systems of payment, both purely temporary. In the meantime the following resolution has been adopted for Manchester: " That, for the present, medical practitioners in default of payment by the patient, should apply to the Corporation under the Public Health Act, 1875, and any other powers which the Corpora- tion may possess. The Corporation should then enquire into the circumstances of the family, and defray the fee in all cases in which the in- come of the family does not exceed a certain standard rate, depending on its numbers." Now, under the Public Health Act (Sect. 133) payment can only be made in respect of the poorer members of the community, and so the term "poorer persons" has required to be de- fined. This has been done, taking the weekly wage earned as the criterion, and a maximum fee not exceeding £1 : Is. has been fixed for cases of emergency. Of course the difficult cases will be those of puerperal fever, and the probable result all over the country will be to send more of these cases into fever hospitals for treatment; this will probably turn out to be advantageous for the midwives and their patients as well as for the medical practitioner called in, to whom such illnesses must necessarily prove embarrass- ing especially if he have many obstetric engage- ments. A practicable mod^is has been arrived at by the Council of the County Borough of St. Helens, in Lancashire, for dealing with the pay- ment of medical men summoned to assist mid- wives; it will be found fully stated in the British Medical Journal for June 23, 1907, pp. 1548, 1549. The medical man is required to take reasonable means to secure his fee before applying to the Health Committee. The fee for attendance in all cases of urgency and danger to either the mother or the child shall be on the scale of 5s. for a visit, or £1 : Is. when operative interference is required and has been carried out. The fees are not cumulative. Notifications by Midwives to the Local Supervising Authority.—The midwife must send notice to the local supervising avithority if there is any change in her name or address, and she must also fill in special prepared forms notifying any one of the three following occur- rences : (a) Whenever she has advised that a registered medical practitioner should be sent for (in this form she has to state whether the case is urgent or not, and she sends one copy of it to the medical practitioner, one to the local supervising authority within twenty-four hours at the latest, and one she keeps in her own possession) : (5) in all cases in which the death of the mother or of the child occurs before the attendance of a registered medical practitioner (of course this is not a death certificate, and no cause of death is stated upon it); and (c) in all cases of still-birth where a registered medical practitioner is not in attendance (a child is deemed to be still-born when, after being com- pletely born, it has not breathed or shown any sign of life, and in the notification form it has to be stated what its sex was, whether it was full term or premature, what its condition was (macerated or not), and what the presentation was). A new duty which may now fall on the midwife as well as on a medical practitioner is the notification of all bii'ths within thirty-six hours of their occurrence. This is rendered necessary by the passing of the Early Notifica- tion of Births Act (1907), if that Act be adopted by the local authority — the council of a borough or of an urban or rural district. In the first place, the duty falls on the father if he is actually residing in the house where the birth of the child takes place, at the time of its occurrence ; but, failing the father, the doctor or midwife who is present will have to carry it out, under a penalty not exceeding twenty shillings for neglecting to do so. No fee will be paid to the midwife or doctor for making the notification. In addition to making these various notifications, the midwife must keep a register of cases in the following form :— No Date of expected confinement Name and address of patient No. of previous labours and miscarriages Age Date and hour of Midwife's arrival Date and hour of Child's birth Presentation Duration of 1st, 2nd, 3rd stage of labour Complications (if any) during or after labour