295 MELLA MellSi.—Mixtures containing some drug incorporated with clarified honey, e.cj. mel boracis. Mellin'S Food.—A well-known infants' food. See Infant Feeding (Proprietary Foods, Completely Malted Cereal Foods). MellltiC Acid. — A hexabasic acid, C6(COOH)6 or C,,R,0,,. Mellituria.—Diabetes mellitus (q.v.). MeiomeluS. — A teratological type in which an accessory limb or part of a limb is inserted upon another (normal) limb, e.g. a double hand or double foot (dichirus, dipus). Melon Seeds. See Cucurbits Semina PRiEPARATA. Melon-Seed Bodies.—Corpora ory- zoidea. See Joints, Diseases of {Pathological Anatomy, Contents of Tuberculous Joints). Melopla.Sty.—The plastic surgery of the cheek (Gr. iJ.rj\ov, the cheek). See Cheek, Fissure of (Ti-eatment); Palate (Rare-Lip). Meltzer'S Sign. — The postponed swallowing sound heard on auscultation at the side of the ensiform cartilage in cases of marked oesophageal narrowing or occlusion. Membrcincl.—A membrane or sheet of tissue, e.g. the membrana adventitia (outer coat of a blood-vessel), the membrana germinativa (the blastoderm), the membrana pupillaris (the membrane which closes the pupil in the foetus), the membrana propria (the basement membrane of mucous surfaces), the membrana granulosa of the Graafian follicle, the membrana tympani, etc. See Ear, Examination of (Anatomy); Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane ; Genera- tion, Female Organs of (Ovary). Mennbra.ne.—A sheet-like piece of tissue existing normally in the body (mucous, serous, etc.), or a morbid formation found in certain dis- eases, such as diphtheria, dysmenorrhoea, etc. See Axilla (Anatomy, Costo-coracoid Membrane); Diphtheria (Morbid Anatomy); Labour, Physi- ology OF (Rupture of the Membranes); Meninges OP the Cerebrum ; Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua; Pregnancy, Hemorrhage (Unavoid- able Hcemorrhage, Pupture of the Membranes); etc. Memory in Health and Disease. Definition ...... 295 Physical Basis of Memory . . . 295 Fixation in Memory .... 298 Reproductive Revival in Memory . 299 Recognition ...... 299 Memory in Disease .... 300 Classification of Defects of Memory . 300 Defects in Fixation .... 300 Defects due to Non-Revival . .301 Defects due to Non-Recognition after Revival 303 Hypermnesia or Excitations of Memory 303 See also Alcololic Insanity (Clinical Types, Defect of Memory); Aphasia ; Brain, Tumours OF (Symptoms, Mental Disturbance); Eclampsia (Symptoms, Prodi^omal); General Paralysis (Sym2)toms); Hysteria ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Index of Mental Fu7ictions, Memcrry); Mind, Education of the (Memory); Pellagra (Symptoms, Mental); Senile Insanity (Loss of Memory); Senile Insanity (Dementia); Typhoid Fever (Symptoms, Nervous System); Uncon- sciousness. Memory, according to Sir William Hamilton, is the power of retaining knowledge in the mind, but out of consciousness. This definition is one which does not seem to have been universally adopted. Some writers on neurology and psychology use the word " memory" in a much less general sense than the above. Herbert Spencer, for instance, uses memory as conveying almost the same idea as "recollection," whilst Sir William Hamilton states that recollection is the function of a totally different faculty. Memory and recollec- tion, according to Hamilton, are two different faculties, whilst Spencer uses the word memory as interchangeable with recollection. Hamilton says that " memory, strictly so denominated, is the power of retaining knowledge in the mind, but out of consciousness. I say retaining know- ledge in the mind, but out of consciousness, because bringing the retentum out of memory into consciousness is the function of a totally different faculty—recollection." For our purpose it will be much more con- venient to use the word memory in a more general sense than that implied in the definition of Hamilton, or in the sense of being equivalent to recollection. We will rather consider that Hamilton's idea of memory is only a part of our more general conception of memory, and that in that conception we also include his faculty of recollection. We would therefore include in our conception of memory the three acts which, accoi'ding to Ribot, memory includes, viz. : (1) the preservation of certain states; (2) their reproduction ; (3) their recognition. The conception of memory in this article does not limit our consideration of the subject to a discussion of those parts of the nervous system which are believed to be the substratum of the state which we call consciousness. Our con- ception of the physical changes and processes concerned in the manifestation of consciousness and in the higher psychical states is still im- perfect, and if we limited ourselves to a con- sideration of those processes alone we would get very little light thrown on the subject of memory.