380 METEOROLOGY hand, moves slowly, and may even remain stationary for days, or sometimes weeks; it is attended by calm, clear weather, therefore, hot and dry in summer, but dry cold and frosty in winter; there may, however, be fogs, mostly on its border during cold weather. Though neither is restricted to any season, cyclones occur with greater frequency and severity between November and March, the period of storms, those in the summer being as a rule of less intensity, that is, the velocity of the wind is generally less in summer than in winter. Equinoctial gales are, as the records of the meteorological office prove, creations of the popular imagination, in northern Europe at any rate. The stormy season closes indeed with March, but rarely sets in before November, while, as every seaman knows, the maximum of frequency and severity is maintained between Christmas and February. The helicoidal rather than cycloidal move- ment of the air in these vortices explains the fact that winds, when of moderate velocity, exhibit the character as regards temperature and humidity of the regions whence they appear to, and really do come; and the apparent paradox that in cyclones of steep gradient there often seems to be little or no relation between the quarter whence they appear to blow and the character usually associated therewith, their apparent direction being, in fact, an accident of their near approach to a cycloid, and of the part of their orbit encountered at the par- ticular time and place. Such cyclones approxi- mate to the extreme type with the minimum of area, and maximum of gradient and velocity known as a whirlwind, or, in the Tropics, a typhoon. The countries of western Europe are at a disadvantage in being unable to watch the approach of cyclones, until they are already upon them, whereas those of central and eastern Europe and the eastern States of America receive intimation of coming storms from the chains of meteorological stations to the west for many hundreds or thousands of miles. From the information received from these stations the areas covered by cyclones or anti- cyclones at any given hour are mapped out at the national meteorological offices by concentric series of isobars, the atmospheric pressure, the direction and velocity of the winds, and the readings of the thermometer being indicated on the maps, and other facts as rain, fog, etc. stated below, as may be seen daily in the Times. Anemometry Directioti. — The vane, a simple rectangle, must be put up where it will be unaffected by eddies, whether horizontal or oblique, and ad- justed to the true meridian, for the needle at the present time points west of the north, 19° in the extreme S.E. of England, to 25° in the N.W. of Ireland, the lines of equal declination running N.N.E. and S.S.W. It is sufficient to register the wind under the eight-quarters and half-quarters, N., N.E., E., S.E., S., S.W., W. and N.W., but any change during the day must be noted. Pressure is closely connected with the velocity, but cannot be inferred from it as recorded by the anemometer, since that instrument indicates only the mean of the period under observation, and the destruction wrought by winds is the result of sudden gusts or blasts during which, it may be for minutes only, much higher velocities and pressures are attained. The anemometers of Osier and of Cator indicate and record the pressure exerted by the wind on plates by tracings on a drum. Gator's is worked by levers. Osier's by springs, which are more liable to be deteriorated by exposure. The readings, moreover, vary with the size of the plates, for which the customary square foot is probably insufficient. Velocity/.—Dr. Robinson's and Casella's are most used. In the former the wind is received on four cups which work a dial; the larger the cups the more correct the readings. It was formei'ly the practice to assume that the register itidicated one-third of the true velocity, but Professor Stokes found with Robinson's anemometer, as used by the Royal Meteoro- logical Society, having cups 9 inches in diameter, on arms 2 feet long, the factor to be 2'4. Sir F. James gives the formula, P = i;2x0-005 for calculating the pressure from the velocity, v being the velocity in miles per hour, and P the pressure in lbs. per square foot, the pressure varying as the square of the velocity. Beaufort's scale used in the Royal Navy is adopted by the Meteorological Office and Schott's, which differs chiefly in the lower velocities, is employed by the Germans and Scandinavians. Velocity/ of Wirid according to Beaufort and Schott. Force. Velocity in Miles per Hour. Beaufort. 10 11 12 Calm Light air Light breeze Gentle ,, Moderate ,, Fresh Strong ,, Moderate gale Fresh ,, Strong ,, Whole Storm Hurricane 13 18 23 28 34 40 48 56 65 75 90 Schott. 0 1 4 10 17 24 32 40 48 56 67 82 100 1 b S I a But for observations on land, unfettered by nautical terms and symbolic numbers, the table