249 MEDICINE, FORENSIC injury, the medical witness will usually have no difficulty in conveying to the court his opinion as to the gravity of the injury in any individual case. In all cases where there is danger to life this fact should be at once intimated to the police—firstly, in order that the case may not be disposed of summarily, so that a charge of murder or manslaughter may be preferred in the event of the death of the injured party; and, secondly, in order that a dying declaration may, if possible, be taken. In forming an opinion as to " danger to life," it must be borne in mind that imminent danger is meant, not the possible death of the person from some remote or secondary cause. Thus a compound fracture of the skull or a rupture of the intestine would be undoubtedly imminently dangerous to life, while one would scarcely describe as such a fracture of the ribs or of the thigh, although both frequently end in death. It is often an advantage in giving evidence on injuries in civil cases to have some system of classification in mind, and the following, taken from the French code, is useful for the purpose :— 1st Class. Slight, i.e. not incapacitating from work more than 20 days. 2nd Class. Serious, i.e. incapacitating from work more than 20 days, (a) Completely curable. {b) Incompletely curable. 3rd Class. Mortal. Causes of Death from Wounds.—In cases of death, as a result of violence, it is essential that the actual cause of death be determined. It is not sufficient to state that a certain injury produced death ; the reason why death resulted from the injury must be determined. In many cases there is no difficulty in at once discovering the cause of death, but in others, especially where the injuries appear to be slight, and not of a character usually regarded as fatal, the question is not so easily answered. We may classify the causes of death into primary and secondary. Primary causes are haemorrhage, shock and injury to a vital organ. HcBmorrhage.—This cause is usually apparent, and apart from external evidence of copious bleeding it is characterised post-mortem by (1) very faint and circumscribed lividity ; (2) pallor of the lips, conjunctivae and mucous membranes, and general blanching of the body ; (3) empti- ness of the heart and great vessels from blood; (4) marked decrease of blood in all the internal organs, giving them a pale, shrunken appearance. In bodies much decomposed, absence of blood in the heart and large vessels does not necessarily betoken death from haemorrhage, as the blood is the first constituent of the body to disappear in putrefaction. The amount of blood lost does not necessarily determine the cause of death. A sudden loss is more fatal than a loss amounting to the same quantity, effused gradually ; while a loss of blood that may prove fatal to one person does not necessarily cause death in another. A strong, robust person may recover from a loss which is fatal to a weak, anaemic woman. The amount lost must always be considered in rela- tion to the age and constitution of the person affected. A person may die from haemorrhage without any external loss of blood, as in wounds of the thoracic vessels, and in ruptures of the liver or of extra-uterine gestations. The situa- tion in which blood is effused is also of im- portance both as regards the amount of blood and the fatal result, as, for example, in apoplexy, or in hcemorrhage into the pericardium, where the effused blood acts mechanically by prevent- ing the heart's action. It must also be borne in mind that in cases of severe maltreatment the total quantity of blood lost from several small wounds, or effused in the form of bruises in various parts of the body, may be sufficient to produce death from haemorrhage. Shock.—In shock death results from paralysis or sudden stoppage of the heart, caused reflexly through excessive stimulation of peripheral sensory nerves. Death from shock most often results from severe injuries, but it may also occur from comparatively slight injuries or violence. The post-mortem appearances are not characteristic, and practically the diagnosis must be based upon the nature of the violence and circumstances of the case, combined with the absence of any pathological condition suffi- cient to account for death. A point of im- portance to be kept in view is the time which elapses between the infliction of the violence and death, the lapse of any considerable interval rendering death from other causes more probable. The condition of the heart should always be carefully examined in such cases, since sudden death is very common in diseased states of the organ, more especially when fatty degeneration of the muscle is present. Death from shock sometimes occurs after very slight violence, which leaves no trace upon the body, e.g. a blow on the epigastrium or on the testicles, while it has also occurred from such a simple operation as making a per vaginam examination, although in such cases the fatal shock is probably analogous to that which re- sults from great mental emotion. Injury to a Vital Organ.—Such as the brain, spinal cord, the heart, and lungs. Sometimes the cause of death is found in some pre-existing pathological condition, such as heart disease, rupture of an aneurysm, apo- plexy, etc. In such cases the questions which the medical examiner will have to answer will be —(1) Was the violence, apart from the diseased condition, in itself capable of causing death, or producing serious injury? or (2) Did the