NEPHRITIS 540 Course and Duration.—The initial rise of temperature may continue for four or five days, or at most for a week, but very often the patients are first seen when the temperature is normal or only slightly raised. The early symptoms which are then noted are those of dropsy and of alteration in the urine. The dropsy varies with the amount of urine, hence in the first few days the dropsical condition is generally more marked than later; sometimes, however, when the suppression of urine is pro- gressive instead of sudden, the dropsy may reach its highest stage towards the end of the second week. In most attacks the dropsy develops with great rapidity, and undergoes consider- able improvement with the re-establishraent of the work of the kidney. Under favourable conditions there is speedy diminution in the amount of albumin, blood corpuscles, and casts, and the urine, from being a deep red or smoky tint, regains its normal appearance in a few days. If, on the other hand, the quantity of urine progressively diminishes, secondary affec- tions of the nervous system are likely to arise, and the patient may die from acute uraemia. Occasionally the onset is more gradual, and the symptoms are less marked. There may be progressive diminution in the quantity of urine, gradual increase in the extent of the dropsical effusions, and indications of secondary affections of the lungs or of the various serous membranes. The favourable progress of cases of acute neph- ritis is sometimes interfered with by distinct relapses, in which the symptoms resemble those of the primary attack. Such relapses are mostly attributed to alterations of temperature, ex- posure to cold, or to the premature use of ordinary forms of diet. In all probability these relapses indicate an extension of inflammation to some portion of the kidney previously un- affected, and hence they constitute not only an immediate danger, but they further imperil the patient's chances of ultimate recovery. With cases that are doing well it is generally found that the amount of urine exceeds the normal quantity, since the kidneys have to remove a large quantity of dropsical material. Hence the colour of the urine is diminished, the specific gravity is reduced, and the amount of albumin decreases rapidly, the decrease affecting the total quantity of albumin passed in the day, as well as the percentage in any particular specimen. As the patient progresses towards recovery the nature of the sediment alters, epithelial cells and free blood corpuscles become less numerous, and the epithelial and blood casts are gradually replaced by hyaline and granular casts, which in turn decrease in number, and may ultimately disappear. Although the above is true of a large number of cases of acute nephritis, it unfortunately fre- quently happens that after a certain degree of rapid progress the improvement appears to come to a standstill, and although the amount of urine passed differs little from the normal quantity, yet it contains traces of albumin which may vary slightly from day to day. The casts also become more granular, and fatty casts may be found. These indications of lack of progress are sometimes accompanied by per- sistence of slight dropsy. These symptoms always cause anxiety about the ultimate re- covery of the patient, as they indicate a tend- ency to a gradual transition from the acute to the chronic form. From the above account it will be seen that it is impossible to predict the course or the duration of any case of acute nephritis. To- wards the end of the first week the improvement may be rapid, and the patient may seem to be convalescing; yet it is not safe to build too much upon such rapid improvement, and the patient must be kept in bed, and the diet must be regulated, even though the albumin has disappeared, and convalescence appears to be established. Usually the duration of an acute attack varies from two to six weeks, but when relapses occur recovery may be delayed for eight weeks or more. If after this time albumin is still found, while the hsematuria has dis- appeared, and if casts, especially granular and fatty casts, are still present, the case must be regarded as having passed into the chronic stage. When a fatal termination occurs it may be due to the extent of the dropsy or to the severity of other complications. Great accumulations of fluid in the pleura or peri- cardium, or, in rare cases, oedema of the larynx, may be the immediate cause of death. Fre- quently death may occur in the course of acute nephritis as the result of oedema of the lungs, or from a combination of oedema and pneumonia. Sometimes acute inflammation of the pleura or of the pericardium may appear to give rise to more urgent symptoms than the chronic effusion of dropsical fluid ; at any rate they cause more distress and pain, and they add to the risks by interfering with the patient's rest. Many cases terminate with acute uraemia, sometimes during the first attack of convulsions, sometimes from a succession of attacks, and in rare cases death may be due to gradual failure of the heart's action, owing to dilatation of the left ventricle. The immediate cause of death appears to depend to some extent upon the age of the patient; in children death mostly results from inflammation of the respiratory organs, while in adults it may be due to ursemic poisoning, or to one of the direct consequences of dropsy. Dangerous erysipelatous inflammation or ab- scesses in the cellular tissue may follow acu- puncture or incisions ; obstinate vomiting, also, the result of uraemia, may hasten the end. Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever.— Some of the clinical features of acute nephritis after scarlet fever differ slightly from those