67 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—FIBROSIS doubtful cases the tuberculin test may prove serviceable (see p. 49). In like manner the pulmonary fibrosis dependent on pnemnono- koniosis can commonly be recognised by the history of the patient, occupation, character of expectoration, and the nature and distriVjution of physical signs. Pulmonary fibrosis of syphilitic origin does not commonly present itself for clinical separation. If the question should be raised, the history of the patient, the presence or absence of other evidence of syphilis, and the result of the therapeutic test, will be considered. Again, the determination of bronchiectasis by means of physical signs may lead to the discovery of etiological relationships, which throw a flood of light on the nature of the fibrosis. In a small number of cases it may be difficult to separate between empyema and pulmonary fibrosis. More especially it is oc- casionally difficult to distinguish between the state of things which is established, when an empyema ruptures into the lung and discharges by the air-passages, and pulmonary fibrosis with bronchiectatic cavities which discharge their foetid contents intermittently. A careful analy- sis of the patient's history and the sequence of events is most serviceable. Sometimes explora- tory puncture may decide the point. From what has been said it will be apparent that while the simpler diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis is, as a rule, easy enough, the ultimate diagnosis of the etiological relationship may prove a matter of some delicacy and even difficulty. Prognosis. — The condition is incurable in the strict sense of the term. But the process is essentially slow: the patient may live for many years. Frequently the disease seems to make little progress from year to year, so long as the patient's nutrition and general condition are well maintained. The prognosis is affected necessarily by the extent of lung tissue involved. The ultimate prognosis is chiefly dependent on the removability or curability of the causal factor, and on the amount of constitutional disturbance which has been induced. There is a liability to dilatation of the right heart, venous stasis, and oedema of extremities and viscera. Or hsemorrhage may occur from ulceration of a bronchiectatic cavity. Or a septic broncho-pneumonia or gangrene may be established. Or secondary abscess may be produced within the brain, or more widespread blood-poisoning from such foetid cavities. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—The most im- portant indication is to rectify, as far as possible, all conditions of life, residence, occupation, or habits, which might intensify the process or otherwise damage the already prejudiced lung. Exposure to close or dusty atmospheres and to frequent alternations of temperature must be avoided. An abundant supply of fresh air and sunlight is to be sought for—preferably in the open air. When the patient can afford it, this is the kind of affection in the treatment of which protective climatic influences are especially serviceable. The downward process is retarded and risks are avoided by winter residence on the south coast of our islands or the Riviera, or in Sicily, Algiers, Egypt, Madeira, and the like. A similar benefit is often experienced by a long sea voyage through sunny waters. Therapeutic.—Not much can be done to cure the disease. Our chief aim is to prevent its getting worse. In certain cases the exhibition of constitutional remedies, as against tuber- culosis or syphilis^ will prove beneficial. The general nutrition of the patient must be main- tained in as perfect a state as possible. The heart must be rested sufficiently, and there should be an avoidance of extra strain on all occasions. At the same time a certain amount of activity in the open air is advisable in the absence of immediate contraindication. Cardiac tonics may prove serviceable from time to time. In other respects the treatment will be chiefly symptomatic, and guided by the principles applicable to bronchitis, bronchiectasis, pulmo- nary tuberculosis, and other chronic pulmonary affections. Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis General Description .... 67 Historical ...... 68 Etiology ...... 68 (1) Du&t of Vegetable Origin . . 68 (2) Dust of Animal Origin . . 69 (3) Inorganic Dust . . . .69 Pathological Anatomy . . . .69 (1) Anthracosis . 69 (2) Chalicosis 70 Clinical Features .... 70 Physical Signs ..... 70 Diagnosis ...... 70 Prognosis ...... 70 Treatment— A. Prophylactic .... 70 B. Therapeutic . . . .71 General Description. — Pneumonokoniosis signifies a condition of lungs and bronchial passages produced by continued inhalation of dust particles (Trveu/Awv, lung; Kovts, dust). Evei-yone inhales a certain amount of dust. In cities, by reason of a variety of factors, and more especially during the colder seasons, when the consumption of fuel is increased, the amount inhaled becomes greater. In certain occupations the workers are conspicuously liable to dust inhalation. The nature of the dust varies in different instances. (1) It may be of vegetable origin. Of this group, the most frequent and classic example is carbon, in one or other form. While all persons are more or less liable to inhale coal dust, coal-miners tend to suffer especially, al- though to a less extent than formerly, because