301 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE the body is in a weak condition, as in the debility of fevers and other reducing conditions, the memories become imperfectly fixed, and soon disappear or are revived with difficulty. This defect, due to want of nutrition, may be general, affecting all the higher memories in the brain, or it may be local, as when there is any local brain disease due to loss of nutrition, such as is seen in thrombosis and embolism, producing softening of areas, or where the circulation in patches is enfeebled, due to thickened and calcareous vessels. In these conditions, alongside of the defective fixation of the present memories one often finds active revival of early memories. The weak decrepit old soldier lives his battles o'er again. (b) Defects due to ivant of intensity and (c) want of duration of the imjoression may be dismissed in a few words, as they are concerned more with the character of the impression than in reality with the defect of memory. It may be stated, however, that defective quality of, as well as defective nutrition in, the cells may require a more intense or prolonged series of impressions than where there is better quality and nutrition. {d) Defects due to Insufficient Attention.—-It may be stated that it is almost always necessary that attention be paid to an impression if it is to be fixed properly, and therefore to be recalled later. Some persons have more powers of concentration and of attention than others, and in them the memories are more apt to become fixed; but in disease one often sees defects in attention. In debility, for instance, it is more difficult for a patient to concentrate attention on anything than in health. It is well known by teachers that some children are defective in attention, and it has been shown that obstruction of the nasal passages by adenoid or other growths is accompanied frequently by loss in the powers of attention. Similarly, in some cases of chorea one sees a jerky condition of mind evidenced in the frequent and rapid changes of attention from one thing to another, without the child appar- ently being able to keep up sustained attention on any particular thing. (e) Defects due to Insufficient Association.— These are very important defects, because, as is well known, every system for the improvement of the memory is based on the fact that associa- tion is one of the most important essentials of a good memory. Increase in the number and quality of the associations of each memory fixes it more permanently and makes it more easily revived. (/) Congenital Defects.—These are due to some anatomical and physiological incapacity, as is seen in idiots, imbeciles, and persons of weak minds. It is quite possible that some persons, with otherwise a well-developed brain and nervous system, may be defective in one particular group of memories. One sees such a condition in deaf mutes, where, from defective physiological capacity, there are no auditory memories. Similarly, other persons may have few musical memories from having a defective cerebral mechanism for the reception of music. It is well known that although persons of weak mind, as imbeciles, may be defective in their mind in general, they are often specially well developed in some special group of memories, such as the musical. II. Defects due to Non-Revival of the Memory which has been fixed (a) Non-Revival because of Insufficietit Fixa- tion and Association. — These have already been considered under Group 1. For whatever reason a memory may be insufficiently fixed, whether from want of nutrition in the cells, insufficient intensity and duration of the im- pression, insufficient attention on the part of the individual, or insufficient association of the impression, the result is the same : it is more difficult to recall the memory for the second time. (5) Destruction of Memories which have been fixed or are in Process of being fixed.—These disorders of memory may be divided into—(1) complete, (2) partial, (3) progressive. (1) Comjilete, in this connection, does not refer to all the memories in the nervous system, but to all the higher memories, viz., those associated with the conscious state. We may divide them into—(a) temporary, {b) periodic, and (c) permanent. (a) Temporary Comj}lete Loss of Memory.— We find this condition in various diseases and disorders of the nervous system. The best example of it is seen in the unconscious state, whether that unconsciousness be due to disease or to injury. It may vary in duration from the fraction of a second to several days. The causes of unconsciousness may be many. In epilepsy it may last from less than a second {petit mal) to hours {grand mal). In hysteria one sees it sometimes not quite complete. In concussion of the brain from blows or falls, the unconscious- ness may be of short duration or it may last for days. In injuries of the head producing frac- tures, with laceration or pressure from htemor- rhage, the unconscious state may last for several days. In coma from alcohol or other poisons, such as opium, and in uraemia the uncon- sciousness may vary in duration and in its completeness. In unconsciousness memory is lost as long as the unconsciousness continues. Sometimes the loss of memory may be only for a second or less, as in 2^etit mal. The person may be doing some- thing—as, for instance, reading aloud—when he may suddenly stop even in the middle of a sentence or word, and after a short pause resume where he had left off. Sometimes he may even not be aware that he had stopped—all memory