LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 42 dyspnoea and by physical signs, more especially Trousseau's bell phenomenon (vide " Pneumo- thorax"). Following the establishment of pneumothorax there may be a fall of tempera- ture and evidence of collapse. The patient probably lies on the affected side to give scope to the activity of the other. The effect of the pneumothorax on the disease is curious. At first, in many instances it is followed by an apparent improvement in symptoms. So de- finite is this, that artificial pneumothorax has been proposed as a means of treating pulmonary tuberculosis. In the long run, however, and in most instances quickly, the situation is rendered more grave, and death follows probably within a month or two. When along with air, fluid (blood or pus) escapes into the pleural cavity, the phenomena of a hydro- (hsemo-, pyo-) pneu- mothorax may be recognised. (b) Alimentary.—Some of these have been mentioned already. The lips are rarely affected by tuberculous ulceration. The tongue varies much. Com- monly more or less furred, it is noteworthy how clean and healthy looking it may be throughout, even when the patient is seriously ill. When the intestine is affected, the tongue is usually red, raw, and often glazed, with prominent papillse. Tuberculous ulceration is commoner on the tongue than on the lips. Aphthous stomatitis, due to invasion of the devitalised structures by the oidium albicans, tends to occur at the latest stages. It is in large part the result of want of proper care and cleanliness of the mouth. When sufficient attention is given to this, such stomatitis is rare. The gums are often pale and flabby and tend to bleed. A red line on the gums, frequently described, is neither constant nor special to the disease. The mouth, tonsils, 2Mlate, and pharynx occasionally present tuberculous ulceration. These may interfere with deglutition, and de- serve attention. The palate is often conspicu- ously pallid; this is an early manifestation of considerable diagnostic value. The oesophagus is rarely disturbed. Ulceration has been oc- casionally reported. Some of the stomach dis- orders rank as symptomatic, and have been detailed in the proper place (p. 40). In ad- dition, tuberculous ulceration must be men- tioned. It is rare, and probably not discovered during life. This is due to swallowing of sputum. The fact that the stomach is so seldom affected by tuberculous ulceration, as compared with the intestine, is probably to be attributed to the action of the HCl on the tubercle bacillus. There may be true gastritis, with infiltration and thickening of stomach wall, and more definite interference with function (anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea). Dila- tation of the stomach, with delayed gastric digestion, may be present. The intestine may be variously affected, with resultant diarrhoea. Such diarrhoea may be caused by unsuitable or excessive food supplies or medicines, as in other subjects. Here, doubtless, idiosyncrasy plays a part. By such means a catarrhal condition may be induced or maintained. This must always be thought of and rationally excluded before a graver diag- nosis is determined. The diarrhoea may be the expression of a gastro-enteritis, or the diarrhoea may be due to tuberculous ulceration. This is caused by the ingestion of sputum. Its occurrence is ministered to by the constipation which is often present, whereby the tubercle bacilli lie long in contact with devitalised mucous membranes. It locates itself anywhere, but especially in the ileo-csecal neighbourhood, affecting the intestines both above and below. It manifests itself by intractable diarrhoea (two to six times or more per diem), pain, and tender- ness. There is often a call to stool in the early morning. Tubercle bacilli may be discovered in the stools. Or the diarrhoea may be symptomatic of amyloid disease of the intestine : this is usually a late manifestation in relation to absorption from vomicae. The diarrhoea is abundant, colliquative, and painless. Abscesses may occur about the lower end of the bowel. These are not always ischio-rectal, nor are all ischio-rectal abscesses of tuberculous origin. The abscess may give rise to fistida in ano. Peritonitis may occur, and this in various ways:—(1) By extension in relation to glandu- lar, intestinal, or other abdominal tuberculosis ; (2) by lymphatic connections from pleura; (3) rarely, as result of perforation of tuberculous viscus {vide "Tuberculous Peritonitis"). The liver may be affected by tubercle directly (miliary tubercle, caseous nodules, and abscess), but this has little clinical significance. It may be enlarged as by amyloid disease, congestion, and fat infiltration {q.v.). The cause of these is most likely the circulation of toxins and other products of lung disintegration. This leads to disturbance of the hepatic structures, and, it may be, local deposit. Fatty liver has been ascribed to the fatty food-stuffs (cod-liver oil) administered to the patient. This is doubtful. The su2)rarenal bodies may be affected by caseation. Of this there may be no definite evidence. Sometimes there are the coincident features of Addison's disease. The pancreas is probably often disturbed, and to this some of the digestive difficulties may be attributed. The lesions include sclerosis, caseation, and amyloid change. The diagnosis is obviously difficult. The conditions have received less clinical attention than their importance justifies. (c) Hcemopoietic.—Enlarged glands are fre- quent. They are of especial significance in young subjects. They may occur anywhere, and are considered under appropriate headings. From the point of view of early diagnosis, glan- ^ dular enlargements in young subjects are