MIRROR-WRITING 435 242 under fifteen years of age only 2*06 wrote in the mirror-fashion. Of 59 males over fifteen years of age 3'39 were mirror-writers, whilst of 55 under fifteen years of age 3'63 wrote in the mirror-fashion. the fact that he had paralysis of the right hand, and as he was unable to use his right hand it may be that he learned to write with his left and became a mirror-writer. How can mirror-writing be accounted for? Results of Tests of Writing with the Left Hand Ordinary Writers. Mirror-Writers. Percentage of Total Number. Female. Male. Total. Female. Male. Total. H g Male. Mirror- Writers. Female ditto. Male ditto. Over 15 years of age Under 15 years of age . 154 297 95 242 59 55 138 290 81 237 57 53 16 7 14 5 2 2 10-39 2 35 14-73 206 3-39 3-63 Total 451 337 114 428 318 110 23 19 4 5-1 5-63 3-5 These figures undoubtedly showed that mirror-writing with the left hand is not such a rare condition as had been supposed. I believe, however, that it is exhibited by even a greater proportion of patients suffering from some forms of cerebral disease than these figures relating to the healthy subject bring out. I have seen it frequently in hemiplegia, and Ireland records some interesting cases in im- beciles and children of weak minds. One was a paralytic imbecile girl between eleven and twelve years of age ; another, an imbecile girl of fourteen ; another, a congenital imbecile of twelve; and another, a boy of thirteen of moderate intelligence. These all wrote with their left hands and in the mirror fashion. Two left-handed idiot boys formed pot-hooks from right to left. Ireland also cites a case of Buchivald, where a patient, a man of forty-five years of age, suffering from hemiplegia and aphasia, learned to write with his left hand in the mirror-fashion. This patient, although shown how his writing was reversed, could not be induced to write in the proper way. Even after many attempts to copy he always reverted to the mirror method of writing. Some of my cases of hemiplegia persistently wrote in the mirror- fashion, even after having the fact of its being reversed pointed out to them, and they did so in a ready and fluent manner. Mills records "that the left-handed show a physiological tendency to mirror-writing." Of a class of 60 boys and girls who tried to write their names with their left hands, 2 boys and 3 girls wrote in mirror-writing, and all of these were found to be left-handed. Out of another set of 134 children 6 were left-handed, and 3 of these were mirror-writers. One of Leonardo du Vinci's manuscripts is an example of mirror- writing, and it has been supposed that this singular style was adopted to preserve the work from superficial readers. But another reason is suggested: a priest who visited Leonardo during the last years of his life has recorded Although statistics on the subject have not been collected, I believe it is much more common in certain cerebral diseases than is supposed. During the past few years I have been in the habit of testing the cases of paralysis under my care, and I have been much struck with the frequency with which I found the tendency to write in the mirror-fashion. Whilst I have found mirror-writing exhibited by patients suffering from hemiplegia due to lesion in the internal capsule, I have not come across a single case of mirror-writing in a patient with hemiplegia due to a lesion in the cortex involving the motor centres for the hand. Indeed, my experience has so far con- firmed the theoretical conclusion I arrived at a few years ago, viz., that where a patient is paralysed on the right side, and shows mirror- writing when he attempts to write with the left hand, one is justified in concluding that the lesion producing the hemiplegia is not in the cortex, but in the pyramidal fibres below the level of the cortex, as in the internal capsule. This may, therefore, be a diagnostic symptom of no small importance. The absence of mirror-writing, however, is of no importance from a diagnostic point of view, although its presence, I believe, is so important. The theory on which this conclusion is based I discussed a few years ago in my work on aphasia; but I may summarise it shortly here. The movements which produce mirror-writing with the left hand I believe to be primarily guided from the left cerebral cortex, and only secondarily from the right cerebral cortex. The motor impulses for mirror-writing start in the cells in the left cerebral cortex, which are usually used for the guiding of the movements of the right hand. These cells are probably connected with corresponding cells in the right cerebral cortex, which cells guide or co-ordinate the movements of the left hand. If we take it that the cells in the right cortex can and do act along with the corresponding cells in the left cortex, then the writing which would be pro-