425 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE The nervous system, as Maudsley says, con- sists of primary or ideational centres, secondary or sensory centres, tertiary or reflex action centres, and, fourthly, organic nervous centres which belong to the sympathetic nervous sys- tem. The primary are constituted by the grey matter of the convohitions of the hemispheres; the secondary by the collections of grey matter which are situated between the decussation of the pyramids and the floors of the lateral ventricles; the tertiary by the grey matter of the spinal cord ; while the organic nervous centres consist of a set of ganglionic bodies which are distributed over the viscera, and are connected together and with the spinal centres by interganglionic cords. Each of these centres is subordinate to those above them and superordinate to those below. It is this nervous system which we have to educate. In order to do this efficiently it is necessary that the nerve centres should be well ;supplied with blood, and that the quality of it should be good. If the quantity of blood sup- plied is deficient, fainting or loss of cerebral action ensues, and consequently there is a de- creased nervous discharge. Chronic feebleness of the heart's action will produce the same result. Again, if the proper quantity of blood is sufficient, local anaemia, as the result of an embolism, produces paralysis. On the other hand, if the nerve centres have an unusual amount of arterial blood, rapid response to dis- turbance ensues, and extraordinary amounts of force shown in nervous changes or muscular .action, or both, are the result. As regards the peripheral nervous system the same law holds good. If there is a reduced quantity of blood, however produced, any part which is ■exposed to cold will have decreased sensibility, and the muscles will respond sluggishly to the motor impulses. This is frequently seen in ■cases of idiocy and imbecility. If, again, there is slowing or stoppage of the local current of blood, the nerves cannot perform their function .and become incapacitated, as is seen in the blindness which occurs when the central artery of the retina is blocked. Excess of blood, on the other hand, causes unusual excitability of the peripheral nerves, so that a slight touch produces a start of the whole body. It is equally necessary that the quality of the blood supplied should be good. We know that if a person imbibes alcohol, unusual amounts of nerve force take place; and we also know that the blood must contain a sufficient quantity of •oxygen in order that the normal degree of nervous activity may be produced. It is requi- site that certain substances, such as carbonic acid and urea, should be present. If the amount of carbonic acid e.Khaled is deficient, lethargy ensues, and peripheral excitations do not result in the usual responses. If exhala- tion is arrested completely insensibility is the result, and arrest of all functions of the body is complete. In the same way an accumulation in the blood of urea or nitrogenous products causes a decrease and final stoppage of nervous action. If the kidneys fail in their function, or if the waste nitrogenous material does not escape from the body, but is reabsorbed, coma, and finally death, ensues. It is necessary, therefore, that the blood which supplies the nervous centres should be sufficient in quantity and excellent in quality if they are to maintain the proper amount of nervous action. So much stress is laid on the influence of the neuron just now, that there is a danger that the circulation of the blood in the brain by which the neuron is nourished may be overlooked. Professor Donaldson says : " No amount of cultivation will give good results where the nerve cells are few and ill-nourished, but careful culture can do much where there are those with strong- inherent impulses towards development." In order that the nervous system may be properly educated it is important that this should commence when the child is young. Education should begin at the age of five, and be continued until the child is eighteen years old. As one writer puts it: "From birth to seventeen years of age is the period of growth and development; from seventeen to maturity at twenty-four is the period of development without growth." Hallech says that he has demonstrated to his own satisfaction that young cells are more amenable to training than any other matter of which he has knowledge. There is no doubt that the nerve cells can be developed in three ways: (1) the sensory parts of the brain undergo change by afferent currents from the different senses ; (2) the motor tracts are altered by being engaged in the initiation of new muscular acts, and the repetition of those which have been already learnt; (3) the association functions of the brain are enlarged by being brought into use. That the first proposition is true is shown by the fact that in persons who have had deficient special senses there is an imperfect development of the areas which have had to do with those senses. The case of Laura Bridgman is an illustration of this point. When three years old she had scarlet fever, and as a result became deaf, and a few years afterwards blind. Professor Donaldson examined her brain, and says: " It is interesting to notice that those parts of the cortex, which, according to the current view, were to be associated with the defective senses, were also particularly thin. The cause of this thinness was found to be due, at least in part, to the small size of the nerve cells there present. Not only were the large and medium-sized nerve cells smaller, but the impression made on the observer was that they were also less numerous than in the normal cortex." He goes on to say: " For the cells continually appearing in the developing cortex