363 MERCAURO mercury. Dose—f> to 15 m. thrice daily after food. Mercier'S Bar. —The transverse fold of mucous membrane of the bladder joining the openings of the ureters and forming the posterior boundary of the trigone. Mercurial. See Mercury. Mercurial ism.—Poisoning due to the use of m.ercury (hydrargism), and characterised by tremor {mercurial tremor), paresis or paraly- sis (mercurial palsy), stomatitis, colicky pains, and neuritis; hydrargyriasis. See Toxicology {Mercury); Trades, Dangerous {Mercury); Colon, Diseases op {Membranous Colitis); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Mer- curial Neuritis); Pharmacology ; Syphilis. Mercuriol. — A mercurial compound, forming a grey powder, used externally in cases in which mercury is indicated {e.g. syphilis) ; mixed with oil of almonds it has been given as a hypodermic injection (by MoUer, Gluck, and others); mercuralgam. Mercurol.—An asti-ingent and antiseptic compound, forming a brownish powder, and consisting of nucleic acid and mercury (mercury nucleid); it is recommended as a solution in gonorrhoea, in ophthalmia, and in the treatment of ulcers. Mercury. See also Colon, Diseases op {Membranous Colitis); Drug Eruptions {Mer- cury) ; Heart, Neuroses op {Arrhythmia, Treatment); Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Pso- riasis {Treatment); Purpura {Symptomatic, Toxic); Stomatitis {Gangrenous); Syphilis ; Tongue {Glossitis); Toxicology {Mercury); Trades, Dangerous {Mercury).—Hydrargyrum, Quicksilver—symbol, Hg; atomic weight, 198-8—a heavy fluid metal with a peculiar lustrous appearance. In the following prepara- tions it exists as metallic mercury, uncom- bined. 1. Hydrargyrum cum Cretd. Grey Powder. 1 of mercury with 2 of prepared chalk, intimately mixed together. Dose—1-5 grs. 2. Pilula Hydrargyri. Blue Pill. Strength, 1 in 3 of mercury. Dose—4-8 grs. 3. Emplastrum Hydrargyri. Sulphur is used in its preparation, which covers the globules of mercury with sulphide of mercury and prevents them running together. Strength, 1 in 3 of mercury. 4. Emplastrum Ammoniaci cum Hydrargyro. Strength, 1 in 5 of mercury. 5. Unguentum Hydrargyri. Blue Ointment. Strength, 1 in 2 of mercury. 6. Unguentum Hydrargyri Compositum. Strength, 1 in 5 of mercury. 7. Linimentum Hydrargyri. Strength, 1 in 6 of mercury. The following are the official compounds of mercury :—1. Hydrargyri Oxidum Bubrum. Red Precipitate, HgO. A heavy orange-red powder, insoluble in water. Preparation — Unguentum Hydrargyri Oxidi Rubri. Red precipitate 1, paraffin ointment 9. 2. Hydrargyri Oxidum Flavnm. Yellow Oxide, HgO. A yellow powder, insoluble in water. Preparation — Unguentum Hydrargyri Oxidi Flavi. Yellow oxide 1, soft paraffin 49. 3. Hydrargyri Perchloridum. Mercuric Chloride, Corrosive Sublimate, HgClj. Large, heavy, colourless lumps made up of prismatic crystals. Soluble 1 in 16 of distilled water, 1 in 3 of alcohol. Dose—uVtV Preparations—(«) Liquor Hydrargyri Perchloridi. Strength, ^ grain to every fluid ounce. Dose—30-60 m. {b) Lotio Hydrargyri Flava. Yellow Wash. Mer- curic chloride is mixed with lime-water to form the insoluble yellow oxide. Strength, 2 grains in each fluid ounce. 4. Hydrargyri Sibbchloridum. Mercurous Chloride, Calomel, Hg^Clp. A dull white insoluble powder. Dose—1-5 grs. Pre- parations—(a) Lotio Hydrargyri Nigra. Black AVash. The insoluble black mercurous oxide is formed with lime-water. Strength, 3 grains in each fluid ounce, (b) Pilula Hydrargyri Sub- chloridi Composita. Plummer's Pill. Calomel 1, sulphuretted antimony 1, guaiac resin 2, castor oil |, alcohol \. Dose—4-8 grs. (c) Unguentum Hydrargyri Subchloridi. Calomel 1, benzoated lard 9. 5. Hydrargyri Oleas. Made with oleic acid. A greyish-yellow oily substance of a semi-solid consistence. Prepara- tion— Unguentum Hydrargyri Oleatis. Mer- curic oleate 1, benzoated lard 3. 6. Hydrargyri lodidum Rxthrum. Mercuric Iodide, Biniodide of Mercury, Hglg. A vermilion crystalline powder, slightly soluble in water, freely soluble in potassium iodide solution; becomes yellow when heated. Dose—T^-yV g^- Preparations —(a) Liquor Arsenii et Hydrargyri lodidi. Donovan's solution. A pale yellow liquid con- taining 1 per cent each of arsenious iodide and mercuric iodide in water. Dose—5-20 m. (i) Unguentum Hydrargyri lodidi Rubri. Mer- curic iodide 1, benzoated lard 24. 7. Liquor Hydrargyri Nitratis Acidus. Mercuric Nitrate, Hg(N03)2 in solution in nitric acid. A coloui-- less, heavy, strongly acid solution. Preparations —(a) Unguentum Hydrai'gyri Nitratis. Citrine ointment, {b) LTnguentum Hydrargyri Nitratis Dilutum. 1 of the strong ointment in 4 of paraffin. 8. Hydrargyrum Ammoniatum. White Precipitate. A white insoluble powder made by mixing solutions of ammonia and perchloride of mercury. Preparation — Unguentum Hydrar- gyri Ammoniati. White precipitate 1, paraffin ointment 9. In the form of the perchloride or biniodide mercury is a very powerful antiseptic, and is largely used in surgery. A 1 in 1000 solution in water or spirit is useful for washing the hands, or for purifying the part to be operated on. Solutions varying in strength from 1 in 4000 to 1 in 40,000 are employed for washing out wounds or cavities. There is considerable