MALARIA 145 use ; the dose is from 5 to 10 grains at each injection. The acid sulphate (1 in 10) may be also used, or the sulphate may be given in the same dose, its solution being effected in water by the addition of half its weight of tartaric acid. The site of administration is generally into the gluteal muscles, the sterilised needle being inserted up to the hilt. The routine treatment of a case of fever is as follows:—The patient is put to bed between blankets, and is given a hot drink (soup or weak tea), with some mild diaphoretic mixture or 5 grains of phenacetin ; at the sweating stage 10 or 15 grains of quiniue in solution are given, and repeated every four or six hours, in 5 or 10 grain doses, as the case demands. It is gener- ally advisable to give a mercurial purge at the onset of the attack. Tepid sponging is com- forting, and may be employed with care. The diet should be light and nutritious, such as milk, eggs, soups, and bland farinaceous food. Freshly-made lemonade is a pleasant drink. Quinine should be continued during convales- cence for never less than one week in diminish- ing doses, and 15 grains given in divided doses on one day, at least, every week for a month afterwards. Alcohol is, as a rule, not indicated, but a little light wine or ale may be given if thought necessary during convalescence. Euch- inin, a tasteless form of quinine, which has been recently introduced, is a good preparation for children, ladies, and others who object to the taste of quinine. The dosage is the same, but it should not be relied upon in the treatment of serious cases. In a severe case quinine may be injected into the rectum after a simple enema. The dose for an adult is 30 grains, either in two ounces of milk or salt solution. In pernicious attacks it is not advisable to wait for the ab- sorption of quinine by the alimentary canal, but rather to inject the drug into the deep muscles or into a vein without delay. Intra- venous injections were first introduced by Bacelli; he strongly advocates this mode of treatment, and his formula is :— Acid hydrochlorate of quinine . 1 gramme. Chloride of sodium . . . -075 ,, Distilled water . . . 10 cos. Not more than half this amount is injected at one time by means of a Pravaz syringe. Person- ally I cannot recommend this method of treat- ment. A case of hyperpyrexia must be treated with the cold bath, or in extreme cases the ice pack, with careful watching. The cold bath must be repeated when the temperature rises above 103-5° F. Quinine may give rise to temporary deafness, severe frontal headache, giddiness, gastric dis- turbance, urticarial and scarlatiniform rashes, cardiac and muscular weakness, as well as amblyopia. In rare cases toxic doses have caused hsemoglobinuria, delirium, convulsions, VOL. VI and even death. Some people, on the other hand, are able to acquire a tolerance for com- paratively enormous doses of the drug. Many drugs have been vaunted as specifics for malaria ; of these methylene blue, carbolic acid, phenacoll, arsenic, Warburg's tincture, and anarcotine only require mention. Some people are intolerant to quinine in any form, and in these cases methylene blue may be given in the same doses as quinine either in cachets or solu- tion. The patient should be warned that his urine will become blue while he is taking the drug. Methylene blue causes the destruction of malarial parasites in the same way as quinine. Arsenic, although it has some influence as a prophylactic, is of little use during the febrile attack. The drug, however, is of great value for post - malarial ansemia and in malarial cachexia, when it should be continued for some time and in liberal doses. During convalescence a blood restorative is required. Arsenic and Blaud's pill is the one usually employed. Bacelli's mixture is a good but rather unpleasant preparation. It consists of :— Be Quinine sulphate . 3 grammes (45 grs.). Iron and potassium tartrate . . 7 „ (105 grs.). Fowler's solution . 24 minims. Distilled water . 300 c.cs. (10 oz.). i>ose.—One to three tea-spoonfuls three times a day (diluted). Malarial cachectics must be removed from the malarious region and sent to Europe. If it be winter they should be sent to a warm, sheltered spot, and placed under a course of quinine and Carlsbad salts, which must be followed by a prolonged course of arsenic. The splenic en- largement may be treated locally with iodine, blistering, etc. Prophylaxis Malaria must now be regarded as preventable, and, as with other infectious maladies, steps must be taken to check the spread of the disease, and, where possible, to stamp it out altogether. It is as yet too early to formulate definite rules and directions for the prophylaxis of malaria, but there is little doubt that the work which is being carried on at the present time by Koch in New Guinea, by the Italian observers, and by many others in different parts of the malarial world, will bear fruit, and that in the near future a marked diminution in malaria, especially in countries under active European influence, will be brought about. It will be possible in this article to point out only some of the ways by which this end may be attained. Malaria can be attacked from more than one side, and there is probably no malarial region in which the prevalence of the disease cannot be lessened if sufficient trouble is taken. 10