MENTAL DEFICIENCY 356 Like those cases, sporadic cases are brachy- cephalic; but the cretin's head is flatter on the top, and expanded more squarely than that of the mongol, and the hair is scanty as well as wiry. The nose of the former is broad, with extended nostrils, and the bridge being flattened, the space between the eyes seems large. There is no obliquity of the palpebral slits as in the mongol, but the lids are often suffuse and pendulous. The lips are thick and coarse, and the tongue protrudes, appearing too large for the mouth, though not marked by furrows like that of the mongol. The teeth are late in erupting, and decay early; the palate is usually expanded. There is often a flushed patch on the cheeks, and the skin generally is harsh, sometimes even icthyotic. The thyroid gland is not to be felt, but in the posterior triangles of the neck little fatty tumours may often be made out. The skin is baggy, apt to fall into folds about the neck, as if redundant; the abdomen protuberant, and not infrequently an umbilical hernia exists. The long bones are thickened and often bowed, and in some cases there is spinal curvature. The hands are spade-shaped, short and broad ; and these and the clumsy-looking feet are slow and inapt in their proper movements. With these physical characteristics a common mental condition obtains, which may be summed up as one of slow reaction. Nerve currents take an appreciable time to filter through the myxoe- dematous tissues, with the result that both apprehension of ideas and response are retarded, and all action is of a sluggish character. The dawn of a smile in a cretinous child is a time- phenomenon interesting to study. Puberty rarely asserts itself in untreated cases; indeed, the sjDoradic cretin remains an infant for life, of diminutive size and undeveloped intelligence. (/) Under the primarily neurotic type we include children born with unstable nervous systems, the result of a neurotic inheritance. The inherited neurosis may show itself in a variety of ways ; nervous irritability, sleepless- ness, night or day terrors, convulsions, being some of its morbid manifestations, whilst want of power of attention and of contuiuity of thought, sometimes moral obliquity, are amongst the mental abnormalities to which it gives rise. There is a certain sharpness of apprehension and spasmodic quickness of re- sponse with such children differentiating them from the types previously described, and the physical features are not so marked. A high and narrow, sometimes deformed, palate is found in the majority of these cases; but " nerve signs " are the essential characteristics of the type, such as frontal corrugation, finger twitches, and a peculiar attitude of the hands when extended, well described by Warner as consisting of a drooping wrist, a contracted palm, arched on the top and hollow on the under surface, with thumb bent back, and each finger bent back at knuckle-bone.^ We have now made a general survey of the most common typical forms of congenital mental defect. It must not, however, be understood that every such case can be classified under one or other of these types; indeed, probably the majority of cases are of a mixed character, though sometimes the constituent factors may be discerned. Ireland has invented the term genetous idiocy" to "comprehend cases whose pathology cannot be properly diagnosed until after death," and instances cases of inflammation of the brain occurring before birth, etc. For the miscellaneous cases above referred to the term may be convenient to distinguish those dating from birth from the forms of mental deficiency subsequently arising; otherwise it would seem that the types we have described are better classified under the better understood term congenital. II. Developmental cases might perhaps be described as a variety of the congenital in which the signs of mental deficiency are late in showing themselves. The tendency is indeed born with the child, and will usually assert itself to a large extent independently of circumstances, when the due period of development has arrived. This may vary considerably with diff'erent types; in some it occurs within a few weeks of birth, in others at the period of first or second dentition, in others, again, at the trying epoch of puberty. The several types may be arranged, as far as possible, in the order of manifestation of the mental defect, as follows :— {a) Amaurotic. ib) Eclampsic. (c) Epileptic. (d) Syphilitic (inherited)—^'juvenile general paralysis." (a) Amaurotic is a convenient term to desig- nate that variety of mental defect (idiocy) which has been described by Sachs and other American writers, and by Kingdon and Risien Russell in this country, under the title of " Infantile cerebral degeneration, with sym- metrical changes at the macula." Commen- cing in the early months of infant life by mus- cular enfeeblement associated with distinctive ophthalmoscopic appearances, it progresses to almost complete paralysis, and terminates in the death of the patient about the end of the second year. The child (generally of Jewish parentage) is born at the full term of gestation, and at birth does not appear to differ from an ordinary healthy child. Some weakness of back and neck, and a suspicion of imperfect sight, attract attention at the age of three months; and soon the child, previously lively, becomes apathetic, drops objects placed in its hands, and finally sees nothing, and takes little interest in its surroundings — sounds alone arousing it. 1 Warner, Nervous System of the Child, p. 55.