319 MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC Vomiting, which commonly has ceased after the first week or ten days of the illness, in many cases returns towards the end. The patient also ceases to swallow, and it becomes necessary to feed by tube. The urine and fseces are passed under the patient during the greater part of the illness. During the last few days the urine is often retained, so that considerable distension of the bladder may occur. The urine in tuberculous meningitis is usually unaltered; but rarely it contains a reducing body, which in some cases is certainly sugar. The pulse, previously slow, now gradually increases in rapidity, and before death may be 220-230 per minute; it also loses the irregu- larity which was noticeable earlier. Respiration is now sighing or grunting, or there may be a hissing sound as frothy saliva collects between the lips, or a rattling noise may be produced by the accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes. The Cheyne-Stokes type of respiration is common, or some less rhythmical irregularity may be observed. The breath often has a sweetish offensive odour, due to the collection of sordes in the mouth. As the end approaches the temperature commonly rises, and hyperpyrexia frequently occurs just before death. From this description it will be seen that tviberculous meningitis can be divided into three stages—(i.) premonitory, (ii.) irritative, (iii.) paralytic. The last two have been sup- posed to correspond respectively with the period of cortical irritation by the inflammation of the pia arachnoid and the period of compression by increased fluid in the ventricles. For practical purposes, however, such a division has little value, for there is no sharp line of distinction between the several stages; indeed, any one of them may be lacking. To some extent the symptoms vary with age, and with associated conditions. In the later years of childhood, and still more in adult life, the mental symptoms are apt to be conspicuous. Change of disposition, delirivim, mental confusion or excitement, the use of wrong words, or even aphasia or symptoms closely resembling hysteria or insanity, may be the first manifestation of the disease; and as these may last several days before any evidence of meningeal affection appears, they have given rise to serious errors in diagnosis. In infancy premonitory symptoms are often much less marked than in older children, and the disease is more likely to begin with a general convulsion. In children who are already the subjects of chronic tuberculous disease—for example, in the joints or peritoneum—the supervention of tuberculous meningitis may be entirely latent until a day or two, or even a few hours before death. In such cases the first symptoms may be a convulsion, followed rapidly by coma and death. In some cases, where only scattered tubercles are found in the meninges, as is common in general acute miliary tuberculosis, no symp- toms specially pointing to meningeal aff'ection have been observed during life. Prognosis.—There is some doubt as to whether recovery ever occurs in tuberculous meningitis. With the advance of clinical diff'erentiation it has become almost certain that some of the cases which have been recorded as recoveries from tuberculous meningitis were really cases of posterior basic meningitis, and much doubt attaches to others. There is no a priori reason why recovery should not occasionally occur. Perhaps the strongest evidence in favour of its occurrence is the fact that temporary recovery from symptoms of meningitis has been observed in several cases which some weeks or even months later fell ill again with similar symp- toms and died. Autopsy has revealed recent tuberculous meningitis and evidence of past meningitis. If, however, complete recovery ever occurs, it miist be extremely rare. The average duration of symptoms in ninety- five cases was eighteen days. Two to four weeks may be taken as the usual limits ; but, as already mentioned, in cases with other manifestations of tuberculosis, the meningeal symptoms may last only two or three days. In very rare cases the disease is prolonged into the eighth or ninth week. Diagnosis.—In the early stage the vomiting and loss of appetite in tuberculous meningitis are often mistaken for symptoms of some slight gastric disturbance. In those who are old enough to complain, the association of persistent and severe headache should arouse suspicion of meningitis; but in infants, in whom it is often impossible to recognise the presence of headache, the diagnosis may be impossible until the occurrence of some paralysis of cranial nerves or optic neuritis points to intracranial disease. FiUness of the anterior fontanelle and irregularity of the pulse are early indications of meningitis. The association of persistent vomiting with obstinate constipation has sometimes raised the question of laparotomy for supposed intestinal obstruction. The fact that the vomiting, although intractable, is not severe, and is often unaccompanied by effort or retching, and is to a large extent independent of food, may serve to distinguish it from the vomiting of intestinal obstruction ; whilst the presence of severe head- ache, and perhaps of irregularity of the pulse, and in some cases optic neuritis, would point to meningitis. At this period also the predominance of mental symptoms in some cases, especially in older children and adults, must be remembered. Tuberculous meningitis has been mistaken for acute delirious mania, for delirium tremens, and for hysteria. In some cases the presence of