MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 181 more or less pedunculated simple or somewhat papilliform intracanalicular fibrous growth. When several adjacent lobules are similarly affected there is produced an inflammatory fibro- adenomatous nodule sufficiently large to be detected clinically as a small nodule or tumour- like growth. Occasionally several such nodules may be detected in the same breast, which shows all the stages of their evolution from a normal lobule. These little tumours afford, therefore, an excellent illustration of the close relationship between a growth the result of a simple inflamma- tory connective- tissue hyperplasia, and a true tumour. In other lobules, again, it is the e/Jt- thelium which is chiefly affected, the acini being enlarged and full of prolifer- ating epithelial cells; other acini are merely dilated into microscopic cysts lined with a single layer of cubical or low col- vimnar epithelium. Occasionally one meets with a lobule all the acini of which are dilated, and lined with a single layer of tall cylindrical cells placed upon an hypertrophied base- ment membrane lined by peculiar elongated spindle- shaped cells. These minute acin- ous cysts are some- times filled with mucoid or colloid- looking globules, some of which may be seen to protrude from the free end of the cylindrical cells. Others of the cysts contain delicate papillary projections, also covered by similar cylindrical cells. A careful study of the mode of formation of the small cysts which are visible to the naked eye has convinced the writer that, while some may be due to dilatation of the duct, the majority are the result of degenerative changes in the acini. The irritation of the mamma, which proceeds probably from the pelvic sexual organs, or possibly from a microbic infection of the ducts, throws the mammary epithelium into a state of morbid activity, the functional result of which is the production of a mucoid fluid, which, as it accumulates, leads to pressure, atrophy, and destruction of the walls of the acini, ending finally in the formation of a cyst whose wall is formed by the surrounding perilobular connective tissue. In support of this explanation of their mode of origin may be adduced the circumstance that the cysts are often in clusters, and that remains of inter- acinous and interlobular septa are frequently seen projecting into them. In the larger cysts all trace of an epithelial lining disappears, and this, presumably, is why they are sometimes. ...A pi J / FlO. 10.- Chronic lobular mastitis from an unmarried woman, set. 38. The upper part of the field shows a lobule which has been converted into a flbro-adenomatous nodule. though quite erroneously, regarded as serous or lymphatic cysts. Course and Termination.—The disease runs a slow course. Resolution may gradually take place, especially at the menopause when atrophy of the parenchyma normally occurs. Frequently, however, slow enlargement of one or more of the cysts takes place and calls for operative treatment, and this enlargement may subsequently aft'ect other cysts. Sudden enlargement of a cyst points to haemorrhage into it. Occasionally the cystic degeneration of the parenchyma becomes more and more marked until the whole organ is riddled with cysts; these, as they enlarge, cause atrophy and