LUNGS, DISEASES OF—FIBROSIS 66 varying degree, those of chronic bronchitis, bronchiectasis, pneumonokoniosis, and pulmo- nary tubercnlosis. Dyspnoea is frequently a leading symptom. This is naturally increased on exertion. There is commonly more or less cough, which tends to become aggravated from time to time. Ex- pectoration varies in amount and character: it may be slight or very abundant; it may be discharged paroxysmally in bouts {vide " Bron- chiectasis "); it may be mucous, mucopurulent, or purulent. Sometimes it is more or less foetid, and may present other characters of bronchiectatic sputum. Theoretically, the ab- sence of tubercle bacilli from the expectoration points to its non-tuberculous nature. It must be borne in mind, however, that in tuberculous fibrosis the bacilli are relatively scanty and may not be discovered in the expectoration. Further, a case which may primarily have been non-tubercvilous may later become tuberculous through subsequent inoculation. Htemoptysis occurs from time to time, and may be severe (bronchiectasis, tubercle). Granted that there is present no progressive lesion, such as pulmonary tviberculosis, or other complication such as bronchiectasis, there is likely to be little constitutional disturbance. There may be no pyrexia and little circulatory prejudice. The patient tends gradually to get thinner. There is often clubbing of the fingers and toes. But the progress is slow, and the condition remains sometimes little changed for many years. If tuberculosis or bronchiectasis be present, the patient is liable to the various accidents which occur in relation to these pro- cesses. The existence and advance of the pro- cess, slow as the latter may be, means strain on the right heart. How long can the heart continue to cope with the extra strain'? That depends on the nutrition of the patient, and more particularly of the heart muscle and on the extra calls on the circulation which the necessities of life and work may entail. So long as the resources of the right heart are equal to the demand, things may go well. If the right heart prove insufficient, evidence of venous stagnation will be forthcoming, and oedema of extremities and viscera. Physical Signs.—Inspectioii.—One or both sides of the chest, over a greater or a less area, may show flattening and shrinkage dependent on retraction of lung. The intercostal spaces may be unusually hollowed. The vertebral column may be twisted. The cardiac apex beat may be displaced owing to traction exerted on the heart. Pulsation may be evident in un- usual areas owing to undue exposure of heart and major vessels through retraction of lung. The pulmonary excursion in whole or part is diminished. Palpation affords confirmatory evidence. Reduction in the size of the chest may bo definitely ascertained on mensuration. The flattened, irregular outline may be recorded by the cyrtometer. The vocal fremitus may be increased. It is often diminished. The latter result depends chiefly on the considerable thickening of the pleura which is commonly present. Percussion educes dulness over a more or less extensive area. The dulness varies in degree, but is frequently absolute. It may be associated with tympanitic resonance (bronchiectasis) or cracked-pot sound (bronchi- ectasis), or with varying degrees of simple hyper- resonance (emphysema). Auscultation reveals usually enfeeblement of respiratory murmur, which may be indeterminate or may be definitely bronchial. Accompaniments are sometimes audible, either rhonchi or crepitations. The latter may be fine or, more commonly, coarse. Vocal resonance is frequently increased, but may be diminished. If bronchiectasis {q.v.) be present, cavernous or amphoric breathing, and the other signs of a vomica, may be discovered. Similarly, emphysema {q.v.) will yield character- istic signs. There may be physical signs from the side of other organs. Thus the heart may be drawn upwards or displaced to one or other side, according to the direction of traction. Similarly, the diaphragm may be drawn upwards, with corresponding displacement of the immediately underlying abdominal organs (liver, spleen, and stomach). There may be evidence of enlarge- ment of the right heart (dilatation, hyper- trophy). With the continuance of this process this is likely to be progressive. There may be evidence of engorgement of veins and oedema of extremities and viscera. Diagnosis. — Pulmonary fibrosis is to be suspected in presence of symptoms of chronic respiratory disturbance, notably dyspnoea, cough, and expectoration, coincidently with certain physical signs pointing to cicatricial contraction. The physical signs include, on inspection and palpation, evidence of shrinkage, more particu- larly of one side or a part of one side of the chest, and displacement of heart and other organs, and deformity of the spinal column. This is corroborated by dulness on percussion, associated perhaps with the signs of emphysema elsewhere, or of bronchiectasis or vomica forma- tion. The diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis in the wide sense is not a difficult matter. It is less easy to refine the diagnosis by the determination in each case of the etiological relationships of the fibrosis. As has been already pointed out, many cases of chronic pulmonary tuberculosis are loosely spoken of as pulmonary fibrosis or fibroid phthisis. The exact diagnosis may be arrived at, however, by attention to tlie history, distribution of the disease, character of the physical signs, and particularly by the presence or absence of tuberculous lesions else- where and of the tubercle bacillus, which should be sought in the expectoration. In really