MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 195 a dimpling of the skin. Contrary to the pre- vailing idea of the laity, pain, unfortunately, is generally conspicuous by its absence: the word " unfortunately" is here used advisedly, because not only does the absence of pain militate against the early discovei'y of the disease, but it also deceives the patient into the belief that "the lump" when discovered is not a cancer, and that advice need not be sought regarding it. In some cases there is pain of a dull, aching character; in other cases the pain is sharp and stinging or it may be severe and lancinating, and shooting towards the neck, the shoulder, or down the inner side of the upper arm. As the disease advances pain may become a distressing symptom, and, by interfering with sleep, give to the patient a worn and haggard look quite different from the later cachexia. In examining the breast the patient should be stripped to the waist so as to allow of a thorough examination of both breasts and axillae. It is preferable to have the patient lying, or, if this is not convenient, sitting with the trunk resting against the back of the chair, so that the body may have support while the breast is being pressed against the ribs. To examine the axilla the arm should not be too much abducted, otherwise the axillary fascia, being tense, will prevent the fingers reaching well up towards the apex. It is well to make the examination from behind as well as from the front. Inspection will at once detect any differ- ence in the size of the breasts, any local swelling, retraction of nipple, or dimpling of skin. (The writer has been impressed by the great fre- quency with which small punctiform, bright red capillary nsevi are to be seen here and there upon the skin of the trunk in patients suffering from breast or other cancers, but whether they have any association with the disease he is unable to say.) In investigating the organ more information will be gained by palpation with the fingers placed flat over the various parts of its surface than by pinching it up between the fingers and thumb. The tumour which is not, as a rule, tender to pressure, generally presents itself as a somewhat chestnut-shaped, rarely spherical, swelling of a dense, imyielding, wooden, or even stony consistence. It is not encapsulated, and therefore moves along with (instead of within) the breast in the substance of which it is em- bedded. Although non-encapsulated the tumour is generally circumscribed, so that, by virtue of its density, its outline, which is more or less nodular, can usually be fairly well defined; in this respect it is intermediate between a fibro- adenoma and an area of chronic inflammatory induration. The density and wooden consist- ence of the growth are best appreciated by pressing it firmly with the flat of the hand backwards against the wall of the chest. The skin is at first freely movable and readily pinched up, and the tumour, along with the breast, moves freely on the subjacent parts. The condition of the nipple depends almost entirely upon the situation of the tumour. When the latter is beneath or close to the nipple, retraction takes place at an early stage of the disease; when, however, the tumour is peripheral, the nipple has a normal appearance. Discharge of any kind from the nipple is seldom present in the acinous variety of cancer. The glands in the axilla are very frequently not to be felt before the stage of skin invasion. It must be remembered, however, that diseased glands are often very difficult to feel in obese subjects, and are often too small to be detected, even in spare women. Progress and Termination.—As the disease advances the skin becomes involved. The aver- age date of this involvement is, according to Gross, sixteen months after the tumour is first noticed. The small cell-infiltration and con- nective-tissue proliferation which precede the advance of the tumour spread into the ligaments of Cooper, and these becoming shortened and drawn towards the growth, cause the skin to become dimpled when an attempt is made to pinch it up from off the tumour. A little later the skin over the tumour becomes visibly dimpled or puckered. When the tumour is situated beneath or close to the nipple, similar changes, spreading along the adventitious coats of the ducts, cause the nipple to be either retracted or drawn over towards the tumour, or the nipple itself may become indurated from cancerous infiltration Direct invasion of the skin gives rise, in the first instance, to an indurated, thickened, and coarsely wrinkled or " pigskin" appearance, which has been very aptly described by French writers under the term '■'■peau d'orange." This appearance is so characteristic that it may be regarded as an almost pathognomonic sign of cancer of the breast. Next follows the stage of ulceration, which is often preceded by fissuring and excoriation, along with a desquamating and scaly condition of the epidermis. This occurs on an average four months after the first sign of skin invasion (Gross). The floor of the ulcer, formed by the breaking-down tumour tissue, presents an un- healthy, sloughing, and frequently excavated surface which discharges a thin ichorous or grumous fluid. The edges are densely indurated, everted, and often considerably elevated ; they are of a dusky or purplish hue, and covered by a thin epidermis through which a plexus of venules is seen. If the ulcer be neglected, and if it become invaded by putrefactive organisms, an extensive slough may form, which, after separating, leaves a deep cavity, the " crateri- form ulcer." Anything like severe hsemorrhage