387 MICROCEPHALUS MicrOCephalUS. See also Cheek, Fissure op (Complications) ; Head {Shape); Insanity, Pathology of (Pathological Aiiatomy, Skull) ; Mental Deficiency (Congenital); Par- alysis (Infantile, Conformity of Skull.—This is a condition characterised by an abnormally small head, with, in addition, a peculiar shape of the cranium. The forehead is unduly small and receding, the occiput is flat, and the vertex somewhat pointed. The various parts of the brain are unnaturally small. Some years ago operative measures were tried with the view of remedying this condition, but these were found of no avail. As Shuttle worth says, " Premature synostosis of the sutures of the skull is, in our experience, rare, so that operative measures founded on this hypothesis are illogical." The condition derives importance from the state of mental enfeeblement associated with it, and is further considered in the article on " Mental Deficiency " in this volume. Microchelia or Microcheilus.— Abnormal smallness of the lips (Gr. ^iXo'i, the lip); brachychelia or brachycheilus. MicrOChemistry. —The chemical re- actions of microscopic bodies (see Blood, Special Methods of Examination, Micro-chemical), or chemical investigation aided by the microscope. Micrococcus.—A spherical micro- organism. When two are united it is called a diplococcus ; when there are several arranged in a row, the individual members are called streptococci; and when several are grouped in a bunch, they are called staphylococci. There are many different varieties of each of these leading types—e.g. the micrococcus melitensis of Undulant or Malta Fever (see Undulant Fever), the micrococcus gonorrhoeae or gono- coccus (see Gonorrhceal Infection), the micro- coccus prodigiosus of red milk (see Puerperium, Pathology, Suckling), the micrococcus lique- faciens albus and flavus (see Nose, Examination, Secretion), the micrococcus tenuis (see Pharynx, Acute Pharyngitis, Septic), the micrococcus tetragenus {see Suppuration, Etiology), and the micrococcus urese (see Enzymes, Urinary). See also Micro-Organisms ; Suppuration ; etc. Microcoria. — An abnormal degree of smallness of the pupil occurring as a congenital malformation ; it may be due to foetal iritis and the formation of posterior synechige. Microcornea.—Abnormal smallness of the cornea. See Microphthalmos. Microcyte.—A small erythrocyte or red blood corpuscle of from 3 to 5 microns in diameter. When such cells are found in con- siderable quantities in the blood the condition is known as microcytosis or microcythoemia. Microdactyly.—A congenital deformity consisting in abnormal smallness of the fingers or toes. Microg^ametOCyte. See Malaria (Parasite, Human Phase). MicrOg'IOSSia.—A congenital malforma- tion consisting of abnormal smallness of the tongue ; it may be associated with microstomus or with micrognathus. Microg'nathUS.—Congenital smallness of the lower jaw, unilateral or bilateral. There may be absence of one-half of the jaw (hemi- gnathus) as well as smallness of the other half; associated malformations (e.g. defects of the ears) are common. Microg^yry.—A want in the complexity of the cerebral convolutions, occurring in micro- cephaly (q.v.). Micromania. — A form of insanity in which the patient believes himself or some part of his body to be abnormally small, or thinks that he is diminutive in his mental powers ("delusion of belittlement"). See General Paralysis (Symptoms, Stadium Acutum, Micro- mania). Micromastia or Micromazia.— Abnormal smallness or hypoplasia of the mam- mary glands. See Mammary Glands, Diseases of (Congenital Anomalies). Micromeg'aly. — This is a rare con- dition, and can only be classified as a patho- logical curiosity. It was first described by Hutchinson and Hastings (Lancet, ii. 1896) as a remarkable condition of "mixed premature and immature development." It is the anti- thesis of acromegaly. The name of micromegaly was later suggested, and the condition has been regarded as a disease of that part of the nervous system presiding over nutrition. The disease manifests itself by an excessive size and prematurity of some parts or fimctions of the body, with swellings and immaturity of others. MicromeiUS. — Dwarfing of the limbs such as occurs in achondroplasia (q.v.) or in phocomelus (q.v.). Micrometer. See Microscope (Acces- sory Fittings). Micromyelia.—A diminution in the size of the spinal cord with spinal affection of the pyramidal strands, as seen in microcephaly (q.v.). Micron.—The one-thousandth part of a millimetre or a micromillimetre; its abbrevi- ated symbol is the Greek /x. See Metric System.