502 MYCETOMA is to embed in paraffin, and before dissolving out the paraffin to fix the section on a slide with Mayer's albumin ; this prevents the roe- like bodies from falling out. From the roe-like bodies a streptothrix has been cultivated by both Boyce and Vincent; it is aerobic, and grows well on potato saturated with alkaline nutrient broth, also on glycerine, agar. They did not, however, siicceed in communicating the disease by inoculation. Dr. Carter considered the black variety to be a degenerate form; Kanthack also was unable to convince himself that this variety was of a vegetable nature. The pigment is difficult to remove, but the application of eau de Javelle and hypobromite of soda will enable the fungus to be satisfactorily demonstrated ; this fungus is described as a "septeto asper- gillus," and cannot be found in the pale vai-ieties. So far no spores have been discovered, nor has cultivation been successful. The red variety has not yet been thoroughly examined; the colour can be removed by spirit, but no fungus has as yet been made out. Diagnosis. — When the disease is advanced there is little difficulty to anyone who has met with cases before, and the discovery of the roe bodies in the discharge will confirm the diagnosis absolutely. It is not, however, always possible to find them ; and particularly in the early stage when the disease is confined to a toe or portion of the sole or palm, it is by no means easy to arrive at a conclusion. Under these circumstances it is justifiable to incise the tissues and search for the diagnostic particles. The diagnosis lies between mycetoma and local inflammation, especially that due to a foreign body, tuberculous disease, and ele- phantiasis. If a foreign body is suspected it may be possible to feel it with a probe, or on examination after incision an X-rays may be made use of; this will expose either the foreign body or the characteristic seed-like particles of mycetoma. In one patient under my care a piece of a bradawl near the wrist-joint gave rise to appearances similar both to tuberculous caries and mycetoma. In tubercular disease the openings are few, granulations are usually present at the surface, the digits are mobile, and there are no seed-like bodies or tubercles on the surface; grating, too, is often present. In elephantiasis there are no fistulous openings, the skin is thrown into folds near the joints, the muscles act freely, and except on the scrotum, tubercles are seldom met with; if present, they have a solid feel. A section of the tissue has a very different appearance ; this is hypertrophy of the cellular tissue, which has a white gelatinous appearance, and fluid escapes freely. Treatment.—So far I have not met with suc- cess by any other than operative measures, and these are very successful except in the case of the sole. Amputation will as a rule cure the disease completely, and if only a toe or finger is implicated, with little detriment to the patient. Unfortunately, however, it is seldom that the disease is caught in this stage, and hence the removal of the hand or foot is usually necessary. In the case of the sole the diseased area must be freely cut away, and carbolic acid may be applied; it is difficult or impossible to assure one's self that the disease has been radically removed, and the excision of a large portion of the plantar surface will cripple the limb very considerably. It is impossible to bring the edges of the wound together, and if, as is extremely likely, the tissues are more deeply affected than was supposed, the surgeon may have to consider the desirability of pro- ceeding to amputation. I have found it, how- ever, most difficult to get the patient to see the necessity of this, unless the bulging is so excessive as to make the foot both useless and painful. When, however, the sole is not espe- cially affected, the patient is generally desirous of keeping the part until he can use it no longer ; provided that the general health is not affected, and the disease not extended above the ankle, there is no harm in adopting this plan, but the glands must be watched. Recur- rence in the stump has occurred after amputa- tion, to my own knowledge, in two instances. When the lymphatic glands are enlarged it is safe to remove them, although the enlargement may be due to irritation only. Dr. Childe was able to demonstrate the fungus in the glands of the groin as well as enlargement of the abdo- minal glands. Occasionally the general condition of the patient may preclude the advisability of any operative interference whatever. MyCO-.—In compound words myco- (Gr. IJ.vK7j<s, a fungus) signifies relating to a fungus or fungoid. Mycoangrioneurosis. — A neurosis characterised by the excessive secretion of mucus, as in mucous colitis. See Colon, Dis- eases OF. MyCOderma Cerevisiae. AS'ee Micro- organisms {Blastomycetes, Yeast). MyCOprotein. — An albuminoid sub- stance (C^.H^jNijOc,) produced by micro-organ- isms {e.g. of putrefaction). See Suppuration [Acute Abscess, Pus, Buchne7-'s Mycoprotein). Mycosis.—A disease due to the presence of micro-organisms or of fungi in or upon the body. Mycosis Fung^Oides. »S'ee Skin, Bac- teriology OF (Bacteria in Mycosis Fungoides) ; Tumours of the Skin {Mycosis Fungoides); X- Rays {Therapeutic Uses). See also Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lympho- derma Perniciosa, A Variety of Mycosis).