231 MEDIASTINUM, THE Acute Mediastinitis. — Acute inflammation of the mediastinum is a rare disease. It may occur as a result of traumatism, especially from the perforation of the oesophagus caused by swallowing fish-bones or other sharp articles, or from rupture of the ossophagus. It may spread from a pneumonia, pleurisy, or peri- carditis ; at the necropsy it may be difficult to say which was the primary condition. An angina Ludovici may spread downward, or the inflammation set up by a tracheotomy wound may have a similar course, and so set up acute mediastinitis. Lastly, it has been met with in malignant forms of the exanthemata, especially measles and enteric fever. In the septic form of acute mediastinitis the patient has severe pain in the post-sternal region; this is increased on taking food, and in some cases deglutition is accompanied by agonising pain. The sufferings of the patient are increased by extension of the inflammation to the pleurae and pericardium. The respira- tions are frequent and shallow, the pulse is very frequent and feeble. The temperature of the patient is usually high and irregular. The other symptoms of the febrile state are present. The disease usually runs a rapid course, death occurring within three or four days from the commencement of symptoms. At the necropsy a gangrenous or a diffuse suppurative condition may be seen, and various micro-organisms will be found. In the less virulent forms the symptoms gradually subside to give place to signs of mediastinal suppuration. As just mentioned, an abscess in the medi- astinum may follow upon acute mediastinitis due to septic causes, or it may be produced by a blow on the sternum, or by a penetrating wound, as by bullet, spear, dagger, etc. The chronic form of mediastinal abscess is usually connected with tuberculous disease of the spine or sternum, or of the lymphatic glands. In the more acute forms the suppuration is diffuse, but in the chronic variety it may be localised. The symptom of mediastinal suppuration which usually claims most attention is the severe pain due to tension of pus. With this are associated the ordinary symptoms of sup- puration, viz., temperature of a hectic type, sweats, anorexia, and possibly rigors. Dyspnoea is also commonly present. In the so-called "cold" abscess, such as may result from caries of the spine or from tuberculous glands, symp- toms due to pressure may be more prominent than pain. If a large abscess has formed, a fluctuating tumour may be felt above the episternal notch or in one of the intercostal spaces, and this bulging may have an impulse on coughing, or pulsation may be communicated to it from the heart. If suppuration be confined to the posterior mediastinum there would probably be local pain and tenderness, and possibly dysphagia from pressure on the oesophagus. Diagnosis.—In the past, mistakes have been made in confounding a mediastinal abscess with an aneurysm, and vice versa. But if care be paid to the mode of onset and to physical signs, there should be little chance of a repetition of the mistake. Puncture is a valuable aid to diagnosis, and even if an aneurysm were punctured by an exploring needle little harm would probably result. In the differential diagnosis between a medi- astinal abscess and an intrathoracic new growth, acute symptoms, such as rigors, hectic tempera- ture, sweats, and throbbing pain, would point to the former. Symptoms of pressure, such as dysphagia, laryngeal paralysis, and enlarged veins, would suggest a new growth. Treatment. —• In acute septic mediastinitis little can be done except to mitigate the symptoms as they arise. The severe pain, especially the pain attendant upon the act of deglutition, will require the free use of morphine hypodermically. In cases due to erysipelas anti-streptococcic serum should be injected. The advance of surgery has rendered possible the treatment of mediastinal abscesses on ordinary lines, and the success which has attended the drainage of free mediastinal abscesses should lead to the operation being carried out in all cases, as unless a free exit for pus is made the patient will almost certainly die. This applies to abscesses in the posterior as well as in the anterior mediastinum. Chronic Mediastinitis.—Chronic inflamma- tion of the mediastinum includes three patho- logical groups, viz.:— I. Adherent pericardium with considerable increase of fibrovis tissue in the mediastinum and adhesion of the pericardium to surrounding parts, and not infrequently associated with caseation of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. To this group the term of indurative mediastino- pericarditis is properly restricted. II. Adherent pericardium with adhesion of the exterior to the sternum, costal cartilages, and lung, but with little or no increase in the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum; pericarditis, external and internal. III. Cases of simple chronic mediastinitis, in which without any adhesion of the pericardium there is an increase in the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum. This form occurs less frequently than the other two. Etiology.—In analysing the cases, 42 in all, collected by Dr. T. Harris, Dr. J. J. Whipham, and Dr. W. C. Bosanquet, it will be seen that the youngest was an infant of fifteen months, and the eldest was a man sixty-one years of age. Under the age of ten years there occurred 8 cases ; between ten and twenty years, 9 cases ;