MEDIASTINUM, THE 237 the same way as a pleuritic effusion, presses the lung up to the apex, skodaic resonance may be obtained in the infraclavicular region. The absolute dulness and feeling of increased tactile resistance are characteristic of a new growth in the chest. Limitation of dulness to the upper lobe of the lung is in favour of a growth. On auscultation the most characteristic sign of an intrathoracic tumour is the obliteration of all breath sounds over an area of the lung ; this is especially the case when the affected area is at the apex or middle of the lung, as then the dulness is not likely to be confounded with that produced by pleural effusion. If a main bronchus be partially compressed the breath sounds over the affected part may be feeble or have a bronchial character. Feeble blowing expiration is rather significant of the pressure of a new growth. In cases of pressure on the trachea or bronchi well-marked stridor may be heard. In the event of destructive changes taking place in the lung, as the resiilt of the pressure of the growth, rales of various kinds may be heard. If the bronchus be completely compressed vocal resonance will be abolished, but consolidation of the lung from a new growth may cause the vocal resonance to become bronchophonic. Diagnosis.—If there be the history of primary malignant disease, as, for instance, cancer of the breast, the existence of symptoms and signs indicative of disease within the chest should at once awaken the suspicion of a secondary intra- thoracic growth. If the apex be primarily affected, both the physical signs and the symptoms may suggest phthisis. In distinguishing an intrathoracic new growth from tuberculous or chronic pneumonic consolida- tion, it is important to be on the lookout for evidence of pressure or irregularity of the surface of the chest, or increase of vocal resonance or vibration limited to some one spot. A patchy dulness is also very significant of a new growth. A low temperature would be rather in favour of cancer as against tuberculous disease, but increase of temperature may attend the rapid growth and diffusion of cancer through the system. The failure to detect tubercle bacilli in the sputum would also be a point as against phthisis. In cases of disseminated small growths through- out the lung irritation of the bronchi, giving rise to symptoms of bronchitis, will be the chief manifestation of the disease. Hence in a middle- aged person the persistence of signs of bronchial irritation, without sufficient discoverable cause, should suggest the suspicion of malignant disease. In some of these cases dyspnoea, with suffocative attacks, is a marked symptom. A large, quickly growing, soft tumour, such as a round-celled sarcoma, may completely fill the pleural cavity, cause the lung to become collapsed, and displace the heart, and may very closely simulate the physical signs of a pleuritic effusion ; indeed, there may be no sign wanting which we are accustomed to find in this latter condition. Moreover, in some of the recorded cases the history is curiously like that met with in pleural effusion. I have reported such a case. Frequently, however, the existence of dilated veins over the chest, with local oedema and the presence of nodules or enlarged glands, will give a clue to the correct interpretation of the condi- tion in question. The only certain way to arrive at the diagnosis is to incise the chest-wall, and should a fluid not be found a small portion of the growth may be removed for examination. The want of correspondence between the physical signs is sometimes helpful. For example, great displacement of the heart to the right of the sternum, with dulness or absence of respira- tory murmur confined to the lower lobe of the left lung, could hardly be accounted for by pleuritic effusion, but would suggest a morbid growth invading the lung and heart from the posterior mediastinum. A double pleurisy is in favour of either tuber- culosis or a new growth. The withdrawal of hsemorrhagic fluid on aspirating the chest should always raise the suspicion of pleural or pericardial effusion due to malignant disease ; though a hsemorrhagic exudation is perhaps more common in tubercu- losis and in malignant disease, the fluid may be clear serum. A purulent effusion is hardly ever met with in these cases. Microscopical examination of the fluid with the idea of finding cancer cells is almost always without result. If, on puncturing the chest, no fluid be drawn, the point of the needle should be carefully ex- amined, as a small portion of the growth may be found sticking to it. To distinguish a chronic pleural effusion or a thickened pleura from malignant disease of the pleura is generally, at the commencement, a matter of impossibility; time, however, will usually clear up the difficulty. The diagnosis of an intrathoracic growth from thoracic aneurysm is oftentimes out of the question. In both cases we have to depend upon the symptoms and signs due to pressure for the recognition of the tumour within the chest, and if the aneurysm be deeply seated we are deprived of the special characters of the aneurysmal tvimour. Age and sex may be of assistance in the diagnosis ; under twenty-five years of age and in females one should think of new growths rather than of an aneurysm, whereas in middle-aged males with degenerate vessels and history of syphilis, aneurysm is the most likely cause for the symptoms. In favour of a growth is the more steady progress of the disease and the gradual evolution of symptoms, from the growth extending in