MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 173 the organ being meanwhile carefully compressed and elevated. Haemorrhage may be reduced to a minimum by applying a rubber tourniquet to the base of the organ on the proximal side of two skewers passed through its base. The usual elliptical incision is made and two flaps are rapidly dissected towards the base, the assistant meanwhile supporting and manipu- lating the bulky organ to the best advantage of the surgeon. All visible vessels are caught up before I'emoving the tourniquet. The axilla need not, of course, be interfered with. The second breast may be removed as soon as the patient has sufficiently recovered from the first operation. Affections of the Nipple and Areola Congenital absence of the nipple (athelia) and supernumerary nipples (polythelia) have already been referred to under amazia and polymastia. Very rarely two distinct nipples occur on the one areola, and a bifid condition of the nipple is equally uncommon. The nipples may be abnormally small, de- pressed, or retracted. Such abnormalities are of considerable importance, as they render suckling either difficult or impossible, and act, therefore, indirectly as predisposing causes of mastitis. The worst cases are those in which the retrac- tion is the result of infantile mastitis, or of destruction and cicatrisation resulting from ulcers and burns. Many women naturally have small depressed nipples; in these cases judicious manipulation and the application of suction, either by an infant or an exhaustion pump, generally suffice to develop and draw out the organ. When these means fail, the simple plastic operation devised by Kehrer gives good results. It con- sists in the removal of two crescentic pieces of skin from the prominent ring of areola im- mediately surrounding the nipple. By suturing the edges of the wounds over the raw surfaces the depressed nipple becomes everted. Care must be taken not to injure the subjacent lactiferous sinuses. Of the inflammatory affections of the nipple the most important are the cracks, fissures, excoriations, ulcers, and eczematous conditions which occur more especially during lactation. These apparently simple affections are of great practical importance, not only on account of the great pain and distress they cause during the act of suckling, but also because they are the great predisposing causes of mammary abscess, and, therefore, their prevention and treatment demand special attention. The delicate and vascular condition of the integument of the nipple and areola, the facilities which its wrinkles and furrows and abundant sebaceous glands give for the harbouring of micro-organisms, the sodden condition of the part, and the mechanical irritation it receives from the child, all predispose to bring about the inflammatory lesions above mentioned. During pregnancy, especially towards the later months, the nipples should be kept scrupulously clean and dry; the skin, if tender, is to be strengthened by freqvient bathing with eau-de- Cologne, or other forms of spirit lotion; and the means already described are to be taken to draw out the nipple should it be depressed. During lactation, too much attention cannot be paid to the cleansing of the nipples as well as of the mouth of the child. The records of maternity hospitals show how seldom mammary complications occur during lactation if these points be attended to. Fissures and excoriations should be frequently bathed with a 1 to 40 carbolic solution, followed by an astringent lotion such as acetate of lead, the parts then being carefully dried and dusted with boracic powder. Before the child is applied to the breast the nipple should be bathed with boracic lotion. If the fissures are very painful they may be painted with a solution of glycerine and carbolic acid containing 10 per cent of cocaine. Occasionally it will be found necessary before the fissures can be induced to heal, to touch them with a finely-pointed pencil of nitrate of silver. When the child suffers from an ap>hthous condition of the mouth, Hansmaunn has pointed out that the fissures and excoriations of the nipple take on an aphthous character. Equal parts of boro-glycerine and glycerine is a useful application in such conditions, both in the mother and hi the child. A suhacute eczematous condition of the nipple and areola, attended with slight excoriation and crusting, may occur apart from lactation, the condition being due simply to want of cleanliness, combined with the irritation of badly-fitting corsets. The treatment, in addi- tion to cleanliness and the removal of mechanical causes of irritation, consists in the removal of the crust by means of boracic poultices, followed by the application of a non-irritating antiseptic ointment, such as Lassar's paste, or of an oint- ment of vaseline containing 5 per cent of am- moniated mercury. After the exudation has ceased, all that is necessary is to bathe the part with boracic lotion, dry thoroughly, and then dust on a little boracic powder. The in- tractable nature of some cases of eczema about the nipple and its great tendency to recur, are, no doubt, due to reinfection by organisms lodged in the mammillary ducts. Facet's disease of the nipple is a carcinomatous affection, and will be dealt with along with malignant affections of the breast. The nipple and adjacent areola is occasionally the seat of a primary syphilitic lesion. The condition is almost invariably met with in wet nurses who have suckled a syphilitic infant. It follows from Colles' law, to which only a few