361 MENTAL DEFICIENCY in which very satisfactory results have been obtained by training. In porencephalic cases improvement is very much dependent on the extent of the lesion ; but in some cases much amelioration has followed training of the un- injured hemisphere of the brain. In mongoloid cases there are various grades; hut there is some degree of imitative power in all, and this may be utilised in the higher class for teaching simple mechanical pursuits. The tendency to tubercular disease developing about the period of puberty is, however, a drawback to be kept in mind. Cretinoid cases treated with thyroid develop wonderfully both physically and men- tally, and from being little more than inert masses, become at length suitable cases for ordinary school instruction. Primarily neurotic cases require great care in bringing up and educating, and they are liable to develop chorea and other nervous affections, and later may fall the victims of adolescent insanity. The prog- nosis of all the developmental types is unfavour- able, though exceptions may perhaps be made in the cases of eclampsic and epileptic children ceasing to suffer from fits. Amaurotic cases always die about the end of the second year ; and syphilitic cases as a rule degenerate after puberty, and, after two or three years of increas- ing dementia and paralysis, perish miserably. Traumatic cases attended with some degree of paralysis often improve mentally much more than would be expected from their ungainly physical features, especially in the slighter cases of birth palsy, attaining under proper drill and manual training even some amount of dexterity. As a rule inflammatory cases are unsatisfactory, the development of brain being limited by toughened membranes and inflam- matory products; and the prognosis of sclerotic cases is invariably bad. Treatment and Training.—A few words on the subject must suffice here : those interested in the subject, which is necessarily a specialty, being (as Bourneville calls it) medico^edagogic, are referred to the works of Seguin, Ireland, and Shuttleworth. Briefly described, the system may be stated to be a combination of hygienic and appropriate medical treatment with speci- ally adapted physical, manual, and educational exercises. The training of a mentally deficient child cannot be commenced too soon ; and the misfortune is that the mother, the natural guardian of the child, is, by reason of a common neuropathic heritage, often the very worst person to commence it. Seguin has well laid down the principles on which to proceed in the following paragraph :—" As soon as any function is set down as deficient at its due time of development, the cause must be sought and combated ; if external, removed ; if seated in the nervous apparatus, counteracted by the earliest course of training and hygienic measures. The arm of the mother becomes a swing or a sup- porter ; her hand, a monitor or a compressor; her eye, a stimulator or a director of the distracted look ; the cradle is converted into a classroom or gymnasium." To descend to detail, the first matter requiring the maternal attention is the cultivation of cleanly habits, and much may be done by methodical attention ; the second is the training to definite effort of the motor apparatus, e.g. by getting the child to hold on with his hands and to exercise his legs; the third is to cultivate the rudimentary powers of speech. By slow degrees the child may be taught to undress and to dress, to feed himself, and to wash and be personally neat. This much attained, comes the rule of the trained teacher acting under medical direction, who will note and cultivate the child's capacities, and know how to exercise its incapacities; and if the " 3 R's" are unattainable (as in many cases they will be) apply such manual training as will not only help the brain development, but will also fit the pupil as far as possible for some employment—it may be but a humble one—in the practical business of life. For the most pronounced cases of mental defect, those generally recognised as idiots and imbeciles, there is no doubt that training in an institution, where a staff of skilled nurses as well as of teachers is available, is the best course, inasmuch as attempts at education of single cases at home are usually unpracticable, or if practicable, ineifective. Under proper conditions of classification, indeed, the aggrega- tion of such children into small groups for teaching purposes is of distinct advantage, as the "sympathy of numbers " helps both teachers and taught. The resources of &n institution also furnish facilities, not to be obtained else- where, for the necessary manual and industrial training. The more nearly the domestic ar- rangements can approximate to those of family life the better for the children, and small groups in cottage homes are to be preferred to larger aggregations in the wards of an asylum. Employment in the open air, in simple garden or farm work, is of great value, so that training institutions should always be in the couutry and on sites that are high and dry. With regard to children whose mental deficiency is less marked—those known as merely " feeble- minded "—special instruction in small day classes has of late years been organised for such by several of the school boards, and under the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act of 1899 a special grant in aid is now allowed by the (English) Board of Educa- tion. To secure this grant the law requires that each child should be certified in a prescribed form by a recognised medical officer, to the effect that " not being imbecile, and not being merely dull and backward, he is by reason of mental (or physical) defect incapable of receiving proper benefit from instruction in an ordinary