498 MYASTHENIA GRAVIS defect of metabolism, induces this condition in the motor neurons. It is quite possible that, in the future, accurate observations on meta- bolism may throw some light on the pathology of myasthenia gravis. Impossible as it is, with the facts which we possess, to dogmatise upon the nature of this hypothetical poison, the view that it is of endo- genous origin, and that it acts by operating continuously upon the neuromotor apparatus, producing a relapse only when the vitality of these parts is sufficiently low for it to get the upper hand, appears in the present state of our knowledge to be the most reasonable. As has been already mentioned, in about a fourth of the recorded cases the first symptoms have appeared after an infective illness. When one considers the frequency of the infective diseases, the rarity of myasthenia gravis, and the comparatively small proportion of cases of this disease, in which the symptoms have followed upon an infective illness, it seems probable that the preceding malady acts in these cases by lowering the vitality of the organism rather than by producing a toxine which is the actual cause of the disease. Diagnosis. — When the symptoms are well marked, the diagnosis is easy, but the recog- nition of slight cases may be a matter of con- siderable difficulty. The following are the chief points upon which the diagnosis is to be based :— Firstly : The presence of muscular weakness, which is often slight in degree, and is unasso- ciated with atrophy or spasticity ; the muscular weakness varies in intensity from time to time and tends to affect in varying degree all the voluntary muscles — the muscles of the ex- tremities and trunk as well as those innervated by the cranial nerves Secondly: The facility with which muscles become exhausted both by voluntary effort (myasthenic state) and by faradism (myasthenic reaction). Thirdly: The absence of sensory symptoms apart from the fatigue of exhaustion, of sphincter trouble, of disturbance of the special senses, and of a neurotic temperament. Early cases of myasthenia gravis, in which the symptoms are only slight, are usually taken for hysteria, a mistake which is largely accounted for by the varying intensity of the symptoms—a feature common to the two diseases. Points of especial importance in the differential diagnosis between myasthenia gravis and hysteria, are the absence of an hysterical temperament and of sensory symptoms in the former disease ; while ophthalmoplegia externa, facial paresis, weakness of the neck muscles, and the myasthenic reaction are symptoms which, when present, help to confirm the diagnosis, since they are rarely if ever present in hysteria. More advanced cases of myasthenia gravis are to be distinguished from the different forms of bulbar palsy for which they are commonly mistaken. The more important features which distinguish myasthenia gravis from chronic progressive hiilbar paralysis are, the age of the patient (chronic progressive bulbar paralysis almost always occurs in people over forty years of age), the absence of muscular atrophy and fibrillary tremors, the frequent involvement of the eye muscles, and the intermittent character of the symptoms in the former disease. From those rare diseases chronic superior bulbar palsy and p)olioencep)halomyelitis the differential points already alluded to, viz., the absence of atrophy, the intermittent character of the symptoms, etc. are usually sufficient to allow of a diagnosis being made. Kalischer, Koschewnikoff", and others, however, have de- scribed cases in which the differential diagnosis between myasthenia gravis and polioencephalo- myelitis was very difficult. Since muscular atrophy was present \p. these cases, Oppenheim believes either thM they were not cases of myasthenia gTavis, or that the muscular atrophy was a complication and not a direct result of the disease. No post-mortem has as yet been made on an undoubted case of myas- thenia gravis in which muscular atrophy was present, and in the meantime one is disposed to accept the view which Oppenheim takes. In apoplectic or acute b^dbar palsy, the result of a vascular lesion, the onset is more sudden, and the tendency is for gradual improvement to occur. The lesion usually involves some of the sensory nerves, producing sensory symptoms, while paralysis of the limbs if present is most frequently unilateral and of the spastic type, i.e. associated with increased deep reiiexes on the affected side, the Babinskitve phenomenon, etc. Ultimately, atrophy follows in the muscles supplied from the affected nuclei. In a similar manner other bulbar lesions, such as tumour, softening, abscess, etc. are usually attended with symptoms indicating the implica- tion of sensory structures; the symptoms are rarely symmetrical, and if paresis of the limbs is present it is of the spastic type. The absence of muscular atrophy suggests possible difficulty in differentiating myasthenia gravis from pseudo-bulbar paralysis, and the absence of a nuclear lesion post-mortem sup- ports this supposition. As a matter of fact, the diagnosis between the two diseases is not a difficult one. The onset in pseudo-bulbar paralysis is usually sudden, and the tendency is for gradual improvement to take place; while if there be paralysis of the limbs, it is generally hemiplegic in distribution and of the spastic type. Mention has been made of the resemblance in physiognomy between the myojmthies and myasthenia gravis, but this resemblance is only