422 MILK be the same as it had when pure. Quevenne and others have endeavoured to improve the lactometer by the addition of lateral scales in- tended to indicate the degree of dilution of normal and of skimmed milk, but they are quite untrustworthy for practical purposes. Useless as is the information afforded by the lactometer alone, the specific gravity should always be noted, since, taken in conjunction with the estimation of the total solids and fat, the re- action, etc., it may render valuable assistance in determining the nature of the impoverish- ment or the causes of the anomalous composition. The specific gravity of normal milk of individual cows ranges between 1'028 and 1'0397 ; that of the mixed milk of a herd, 1"030 and 1"035, or, as it is often expressed, from 30° to 35°, the average being 1'032. That of skimmed milk is 1-034 to 1 038; and of the fat, 0-93. Fleisch- mann, Hehner, Richmond, and others, have devised formulse for determining the fat from the total solids and specific gravity. Taking T to represent the total solids, F the fat, D the specific gravity, and G the lactometer degrees (i.e. the excess of the specific gravity over 1000), the formulae assume with the aid of empirical constants various degrees of complexity; but Richmond has simplified them down to (t 6F T = — -I- —, and to save calculation he has 4 5 constructed a slide-rule, known as the milk scale. (See for a mathematical discussion of the whole subject Richmond's Dairy Chemistry.) Estimation of Total Solids. — Evaporate a small quantity of milk in a platinum dish over a water bath. When 5 grams were taken, three hours (Wanklyn) were found insufficient, and longer periods (fS'oc. Pub. Anal.) involve browning and decomposition. Vieth and Richmond substituting 1 gram spread over a large surface obtain by evaporation a perfectly white residue with higher and yet constant results. Richmond has designed a water oven that seems perfect. Estimation of Fat.—The methods employed are gravimetric, volumetric, and indirect. The last, already mentioned, were originally sug- gested by Fleischmann on account of the time and skill demanded by the gravimetric; but some of the volumetric are so rapid and accurate as to render the indirect methods superfluous, and the gravimetric necessary only when ex- treme exactness is required. Many of these, some of which had enjoyed official sanction, have been proved untrustworthy and been con- demned by all analysts (except those of Somer- set House). Adams' is undoubtedly the best of the gravimetric methods, and the Werner- Schmid of the volumetric; but Gerber's, which requires less technical skill, is sufficiently accurate for all routine examinations, and takes less time than even Schmid's. Adams' process has been exhaustively studied by chemists in England and in Germany, and Schleicher and Schiill have prepared a "fat-free" paper which, lanlike the blotting-paper originally used by Adams, yields only inappreciable amounts of extracts soluble in ether. Vieth fully con- firmed Adams' observation that in filtering milk the paper retains the whole of the fat, the other solids passing through in the filtrate, or if the milk be wholly absorbed by the paper the fat remains on the surface. For the details of the process, the weighing, etc., recourse must be had to technical works; suffice it here to say that samples (5 grams) of the milk are run from a pipette into strips of fat-free or exhausted papers large enough to absorb the whole, which are dried and weighed with strict precautions, rolled and transferred to a Soxhlet's apparatus, where the fat is extracted by ether. The results are extraordinarily accurate, but the process occupies an entire working day; and Schmid's method, with Stoke's improved pipette, gives in skilled hands identical results in less than half an hour:—10 (or 5) c.c. of the milk with the same of hydrochloric acid are mixed and boiled in the special tube, then cooled to 16° C. under the tap, 30 (or 15) c.c. of ether added, and the tubes, after shaking, set aside for the etherial solution of the fat to rise, when a third or other aliquot part is carefully pipetted off without disturbing the floccvdent layer of albumin between it and the watery portion, evaporated at 100° C, and the fat determined by weighing with the usual precautions. The special feature and merit of Schmid's process is the conversion of the casein into an acid albumin, and the consequent absence of any coagulation or drying which in other methods impedes the extraction of the fat. In the Leffmann-Beam and the Gerber methods the milk is mixed with prescribed quantities of amylic alcohol (and hydrochloric acid) and sulphuric acid in specially graduated tubes or flasks, which are rotated in a centrifugaliser worked by hand for a few minutes, when the fat, separating as a clear semi-fluid colunm, is read off on the scale, the marks on which represent parts and tenths of parts per cent in the 15 c.c. used, fractions of tenths being guessed by the eye. This method is not sufficiently accurate to be, like Adams' and Schmid's, relied on in prosecutions; but the results, approximating theirs within 0*1 per cent, are quite good enough for routine and preliminary examinations. The estimation of the sugar, casein, albumin, and salts is never required in dairy or legal practice, unless perhaps in corroboration of opinions formed as to anomalous findings. Bacteriological Examination. — Milk in the udder of a healthy animal is sterile, and when drawn with great care may have fewer than 100 bacteria in the c.c, but as sold the numbers range from 30,000 to 30,000,000, the average in