MALARIA 140 attack, and is even said to have occurred from over-distension without the receipt of any injury. The symptoms of rupture of the spleen are those of internal htemorrhage; briefly, these are pain with an increase of dulness in the left flank, small rapid pulse, livid pallor, restless- ness, thirst, syncope, and coma. Death is inevitable unless a successful surgical operation can be performed. It may be here pointed out that it is rarely justifiable to aspirate the spleen for the purpose of blood examination. What determines the degree of splenic en- largement in malaria is unknown. It certainly does not depend entirely on the number of attacks of fever. Possibly it may depend on the individual, for I have observed in two ship epidemics that the spleens of the seamen affected varied very considerably in size, although none of them had been previously infected, and all had suffered from the same number of attacks of fever. Daniels believes that race influences the degree of splenic enlargement. He found, after a prolonged series of post-mortem ex- aminations in Georgetown, British Guiana, that the negro has a much smaller spleen than the Indian immigrants or Europeans. Malarial cachexia in the adult is not in itself very fatal, but may predispose to some intercurrent disease and so cause death. Under proper treatment, including removal from the malarious district, health may be restored ; the spleen, however, although much reduced in size, does not quite resume its normal dimensions. More often, perhaps, the health is broken, and the individual becomes prematurely aged, with the grey hair, arcus senilis, and commencing cirrhotic changes of liver and kidneys so often met with in invalids from the Tropics. The disease known as Kala-azar, the cause of which has from time to time given rise to discussion, is now generally regarded as a post-malarial affection. Complications There has been a great tendency to regard many diseases which complicate malaria as being themselves malarial in origin. Typhoid, dysentery, pneumonia, orchitis, etc., have all been stigmatised in this way. These diseases, and many others, may, and do occur during malarial attacks, but it is wrong to regard them as manifestations of malaria. TypJio-Malaria.—For many years, especially in America, and to a less extent in India, a condition known as typho-malaria was described, and which was regarded as a definite disease. Some observers considered it to be distinct both from malaria and typhoid ; others regarded it as a peculiar comlnnation of the two diseases, and one in which the malarial element resisted treat- ment. At the present time we know that no such condition exists, and that most of the so- called cases of typho-malaria are typhoid pure and simple, in which rigors from septic ab- sorption or other causes occur during the course of the disease. It is important to remember, however, that malaria may occur during an attack of typhoid fever. It can be readily understood that an individual, the subject of a latent malarial infection, who contracts typhoid is prone to suff'er from an acute manifestation of malaria. This may occur at the onset when the condition may be diagnosed a simple case of malaria. More often it occurs late in the disease or during convalescence. If these few points be kept in mind no real difficulty in diagnosis exists. The malarial element must be diagnosed by the microscope and the typhoid by the Widal reaction. When malaria is recognised it demands prompt specific treatment. Dysentery corresponds so closely in many places with malaria in geographical distribu- tion that it is not surprising that the two dis- eases frequently concur in the same individual. There is nothing special to be mentioned in these cases, unless it be that the pyrexia of the malarial element may simulate the fever of liver abscess. Care must be taken not to confound this class of case with the dysenteric type of pernicious malarial fever. Acute pneumonia is not an infrequent complication of malaria; it occurs more frequently perhaps on return to a cold climate. It presents no special features, except that it may run a severe course with delayed resolution, and is prone to lead to suppuration of lung or pleura. Malaria may occur in a tubercular subject, when it may not be recognised on account of rigors and pyrexia being attributed to the presence of tubercle. Too great care cannot be exercised in making an examination of blood in suspicious cases, for the timely administration of quinine is imperative, and if withheld, the condition of the patient is greatly influenced for the worse. Syphilis occurring in a subject enfeebled by malaria frequently assumes extraordinary virulence, and occasionally syphilis which has been apparently cured reappears in a virulent tertiary manifestation during an attack of malarial fever. Malaria occurring during the coui-se of syphilis is equally serious, and the patient should leave the malarious country, because in nearly all cases rapid deterioration of health is certain to follow. When it is remembered that malaria especially attacks the individual who is subject to depressing influences, it is not surprising to find that the puerperal state is often complicated with malaria. It is practically the rule for malarious women to suffer from malarial fever after delivery. Accidents also which require surgical operation often light up some old malarial affection, or precipitate an attack of malaria. This is often confusing until a blood examination has explained the cause of pyrexia.