VI.] GENERAL VIEW OF INTERNAL SKELETON. 233 We have, secondly, the fibula; the calcaneum; the cuboid; the fourth and fifth metatarsals ; and the annexed digits— forming the bi-digital series. 24. In man, however, the ulna takes part in the limb joint, while the fibula does not. As we have found, however, this difference may disappear, for in some animals the fibula does articulate with the femur. Again, in man the ulna has a large proximal process—the olecranon—while his fibula has nothing of the kind. An olecranon-like fibular structure may, however, be developed, as we have seen, in the Ornithorhynchus. In man and in most animals there is a patella in the leg, but no analogous ossicle at the elbow-joint. Sometimes, how- ever (as in the Wombat), there is a distinct ossicle above the olecranon on the extensor side of the elbow-joint. 25. Again, the leg in man does not articulate with the tarsus in the same manner as the arm does with the carpus—the ulna, unlike the fibula, not entering directly into such union. But the ulna may articulate with the carpus directly, even in man's own order. The scaphoides and lunare are often together represented by a single bone which seems to answer to the astragalus, especially since the latter may be represented by two bones, as in the Salamander. The os calcis is furnished with a great tuberosity of which there is no representative in the carpus, but then this pro- cess is not constant, as it is entirely wanting in Lizards. The naviculare seems to have no representative in the human carpus, but even in most Apes there is an extra carpal —the os intermedium, or centrale. The cuboides and unciforme of man may each be repre- sented by two bones in other animals, so that their cor- respondence in unity is confirmed by a correspondence in duplicity. The trapezium of man differs from his ento-cuneiforme in that it has a saddle-shaped surface for the pollex ; but in Lemur the latter bone has a surface of that shape for the hallux. 26. The first digit is opposable in man's hand, but not in man's foot. In Cheiromys and many Marsupials it is opposable in the foot, and not in the hand. In man the digits of the hand are longer than those of the foot, but in Macroscelides those of the foot are the longer.