X.] THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. 427 Thus the blood, instead of being propelled in a double circuit as in man, may, as in Fishes and young Batrachians, make but a single great circuit, not returning to the heart till the whole round has been completed. In this case the heart propels venous, unaerated blood only, which, quitting that organ by the bulbus aortae, passes to the gills, where it undergoes aeration, not by decomposition of the water and extraction of its oxygen, but by the recep- tion of that gas from the particles of air mechanically mixed up with the water which the creature inhabits. Having been thus oxygenated, the blood passes to the great dorsal de- scending aorta, and is thence distributed over the body. Again, more or less blood may return to the heart before being distributed to the body generally, and thus there may be two circulations, as in man, and in all air-breathing Vertebrates. In many animals which possess this double circulation, both venous and arterial blood may be more or less mixed up in the heart itself, and thus an impure fluid may be propelled by the aortic arches. This condition exists in all Batrachians and Reptiles, except the Crocodiles, though (owing to com- plex conditions with regard to the valves of the chambers ot the heart and of the aorta) the mixture is much less com- plete than might be supposed, the blood from the lungs being almost entirely forced into that aortic arch which distributes its contents to the anterior region of the body. This is the case even in so low an animal as the common Frog. The two states of blood may be as strictly divided between the two sides of the heart as in man, and yet a certain im- purity in the circulation may exist. This is so in Crocodiles, where the two aortic arches, coming respectively from the venous and arterial sides of the heart, Communicate. That subordinate sub-division of the larger (or systemic) J circulation which is called the portal system may, as we have j seen, receive blood from more extensive sources than in man ; I and it may be, as we have also seen, not the only secondary t circulation of the kind—for another like it may at the same I time exist in each kidney, as is notably the case in Batrachians. J Rhythmical contractility, instead of being confined to I the heart, as in man, may be widely distributed, as in the |Lancelet ; and this is especially the case with regard to the iproximal ends of the main arteries and veins, which may be B dilated respectively (as we have seen) into a bulbus arteriosus