396 ELEMENT A R Y ANA TO MY. [less. separated, and secondarily connected with the upper part of the hyoidean visceral arch. Fig. 347.—Diagram illustkaiing the different developments in Sauro- PSIDANS AND ICHTHYOPSIDANS OF PARTS WHICH IN MaMMALS BECOME THE Auditory Ossicles. {After Htixley.) No. 1, the parts in Man ; No. 2, the parts in the Lizard Sphenodon; No. 3, the parts in the Cod. a, malleus, or quadratum ; a1', the segment of it called os articulare ; a \ the I segment of it called meta-pterygoid ; 3, incus—in the Lizard Sphenodon that part of the continuous cartilage which answers to man's incus—in the Cod, the hyo-maadibular ; c, the stapes—columella auris in Sphenodott; d, the dentary piece of tne lower jaw ; s, stylo-hyoid, or, in Sphenodon, that part of the continuous cartilage which answers to it ; s', the stapedius muscle ; s"\ the stylo-hyoid muscle: b h, the basi-hyal, or body of the hyoid : h, the corniculum of the hyoid—in the Cod, called cerato-hyal ; y, sympleetic. The external ear, or pinna, may be entirely wanting, as in, the Whales and in all below the Crocodiles, in which latter animals it is represented by a slight fold of skin. On the other hand, its proportions may greatly exceed those of man, and, in the little Bat Plecotus, may equal m length the entire trunk. Moreover, the tragus may be (as in the Insectivo- rous Bats) so largely developed as to look like a second pointed ear standing up inside the normal one. A lobule is almost peculiar to man, though a rudiment of it is found in the Gorilla. Fir,. 348,-Head or the 24- The portio dura of the seventh Common Long-eared NERVE (the facial) arises from the pOS- Bat {Piecotusauritus). terior division of the hind-brain, appear- t, the tragus of each ear. }ng at ^ posterior margin of the pons Varolii. It enters the internal auditory meatus, and, piercing the petrous part of the tem- poral bone, bifurcates, and one part comes out at the stylo- mastoid foramen. This part is distributed to the ear-scalp and