ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. 446 [lkss. 10. The INTESTINES of man have been described in the Sixth Lesson of "Elementary Physiology/' § § 21 — 23. It may be here mentioned that the long convoluted tube immediately proceeding from the pyloric end of the stomach is called the small intestine. This terminates by a definite opening (de- fended by a valve) into a much wider and sacculated tube, called the large intestine, or colon (Fig. 374, ac, tc, and dc). Near the point of junction, the end of the colon projects blindly in what is called the cozcum, which latter has at- tached to it, near its end, a very narrow hollow process, called the vermiform appendix (Fig. 374, a). The colon ascends in the abdominal cavity, passes transversely, and then descends to terminate in the rectum. In its transverse coarse the colon passes in close proximity to the first part of the small intestine, called the duoden^um. The intestines, like the stomach, are formed of muscular fibres with a mucous lining ; and this lining is, in the small intestine, drawn out into very numerous folds (called valvules conniventes), placed transversely to the course of the bowel and in close proximity, thus vastly increasing the amount of surface in contact with the food. No such folds exist inside the large intestine. 11. The study of Vertebrates generally shows us that the alimentary canal may be much more prolonged relatively, and may be more complex than it is in man, as also that it may be relatively much shorter and very much simpler than in him. In man the intestines are six or seven times the length of the body, but in his own class they may be as little as three times that length, or even less—as in Bats and Shrews ; while they may be as much as twenty-seven times—as in the Sheep. . Passing beyond man's class, we find that the intestines may but little exceed the length of the body, as in marfy Lizards (Fig. 384) and Serpents, and may even fall short of it, as in some Fishes. In that his intestine is divisible into "large" and "small," man agrees with the great majority of members of his sub- kingdom. Nevertheless, all distinctions between these parts may be wanting, so that the whole intestine forms one simple canal, as e.g. in the Carp, and still more strikingly in the Lamprey. Even in man's own class there may be no distinction in size between the large and small intestines, as in the Shrews—and there is hardly any in the Porpoise.