VIII.] 337 THE MUSCLES. man and his order, but even in such forms as the Dog and the Bat. Interossei. These muscles are very generally present, existing even in the cold-blooded Vertebrates, and their essential nature is that of flexores breves. Even in man half of each pair of interossei acts as an extensor, being inserted into the dorsum of the third phalanx ; while half of each pair acts as a flexor, being inserted into the palmar side of the first phalanx. Indeed, it is by a modification of what are essentially interossei that some of the small special muscles of the pollex and little finger are constructed, as the abductor pollicis and digiti minimi. The distinction between "palmar" and "dorsal" interossei is really unimportant, referring only to the mode of their origin from the metacarpals. 23. In the ABDOMINAL REGION", the body-wall of man is composed of muscular layers such as normally exist in other Vertebrates above Fishes. The muscles may, however, be severally more developed or less developed, or more complex or less complex, than they are in him. On entering the class of Fishes we lose the superimposed lamellae of differently directed muscular fibres of which the far greater portion of the abdominal muscles in the higher forms consist. In their place we have exclusively antero-posteriorly directed fibres, and it is as if the rectus muscle had increased vastly and entirely at the expense of the completely aborted oblique muscles. That this is so, seems to be demonstrated by those Batrachians which begin life with so many and close resemblances to Fishes, which subsequently they lose. Thus in the great persistent larva, the Axolotl, we find no truly oblique abdominal muscles, but only as it were a hyper- trophied rectus ; while in the rarely attained adult condition (in which it closely resembles the genus Amblystoma) we meet with the normal muscular abdominal structure of super- imposed oblique lamellae. Sometimes the number of these lamellae is greater than in man : thus the obliquus externus may consist, of three dis- tinct layers, as e.g. in the Iguana. The obliquus internus of man is of moderate development. It may be less developed than in him, as e.g. in the common Chameleon. On the other hand it may be much larger, relatively, as in Iguana, where it lines the whole of the thorax ; or it may be, as in Menopoma and Menobranchtis, the largest muscle of the body, being continued on forwards