ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. 326 origin. Thus in many Birds it is the absolutely largest muscle, and equals the weight of all the other muscles of the body put together. In the last-named class it may send a slip to the pollex, as in the Eagle (see Fig. 289, 2). Pectoralis minor. The smaller pectoral is a much less con- stant muscle than the large one, being very frequently absent. Even in animals closely allied to man {e.g. many Apes) it is inserted into the capsular ligament of the humerus instead of into the coracoid process. It may form one with the pecto- ralis major, as in Birds. The sub-clavius is also an inconstant muscle. It may take on an enormous development and be singularly modified, as in Birds, where it arises beneath the pectoralis, and is so inserted as by its action to antagonize that muscle ; for it sends a tendon between the clavicle and coracoid, and the scapula (the margin of the interspace through which it passes serving as a pulley), by which the direction of its force is changed, so that it serves to elevate instead of to depress the humerus. Serratus magnus. This, which really is one muscle with the levator anguli scapulae, may be much more extensive or much more restricted than in the human subject. In Quadrupeds {e.g. the Horse) the serrati of the two sides serve to sling the trunk from the scapulae, or summits of the columnar fore- limbs. It may consist of several detached parts, as in the Chameleon, or be exceedingly small, as in Menopojna (Fig. 283). The deltoid is a nearly constant muscle in Vertebrates above Fishes, but may be very small, as in the Horse, or very large, as in the Bat, or it may be divided into several parts. The supra-spinatus of man is normal as compared with that of other animals of his class ; but, by a strange excep- tion, it may be placed only on the inner (or body) side of the scapula, as in the Echidna. The infraspinatus, which is also normal in man, may (as in the Echidna) be placed at the most anterior part of the outer surface of the scapula. The teres minor may coalesce with the last-noticed muscle, as in the Two-toed Ant-eater. The minor may be larger than the major, as in the Horse. The teres major is normal in man, but it may attain a very much greater relative size, as in the Mole. The subscapularis is generally in Mammals much as it is in the human subject. It may be considerably smaller, however (as in Cetaceans); and by a singular exception it may (as in the