[less. ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMK 36 (called lamiiicE dorsales), and these meeting above form a canal (the neural canal), while beneath the primitive groove runs the notochord, or chorda dorsal is. Two other longitudinal folds (called la7iiincB ventrales) extend down—one on each side from the notochord—and ultimately meet below. Each lamina ve?itralis splits longi- tudinally (the split extending up towards the notochord), the Fig. 47.—Diagram of the Development of the Trunk and its Skeleton as shown in a section of the trunk made at right angles to its long axis. Id, lamina dorsalis ; nc, the neural canal ; n, the notochord ; ex, cartilage ex- tending dorsally and forming the foundation of the neural lamina \px, cartilage extending ventrally in lvst which represents the outer part of the split wall of the ventral lamina ; Ivi, the inner part of the split wall of the ventral lamina, forming by vemral union with its fellow on the opposite side the alimentary tube ; pp, the pleuroperitoneal space between the outer and inner split walls of the ventral laminae. inner fold of each such split uniting with its fellow of the opposite side to form the alimentary canal, while the two outer folds of the split form the body wall. Cartilage becomes deposited at intervals along each dorsal lamina, and surrounds and encroaches on the notochord, so that we come to have a series of cartilaginous segments (representing the future vertebrae), the neural laminae of which are in the dorsal folds. Similarly, cartilages extend down in the outer part of the split wall of the ventral laminae. These are the cartilaginous predecessors of the ribs, which, by their fusion in the mid- ventral line, form the sternum. Bone is deposited in the centra (nothing of the notochord being left but the pulpy substance in the middle of the inter- vertebral substances), in each neural arch, in each rib, and in successive portions of the sternum. Besides these separate ossifications there are also the epiphyses, which long remain distinct as bony discs, one above and one below each centrum ; and there are also epiphyses in the form of little bony caps to the various processes. The