ELEMENTAR Y- ANA TOM Y [less. 86 spoken of already as medianly dividing the posterior nasal openings. In the infant this bone consists of two lateral portions. The inferior turbinate bones, or lowest TURBINALS, extend (one on each side) from before backwards along the nasal fossae, attached, though but slightly, to the inner side of the maxillary and palatine bones. 12. The only naturally separated bone of the skull in the adult, namely the lower jawbone, or mandible, consists ot a curved osseous band, almost of the same depth through- out, and convex forwards. It has a smooth rounded inferior edge, but its upper edge is festooned by unequal cavities, forming sockets for the teeth, whence this upper border is termed " alveolar." The whole band is termed the body of the mandible ; a vertical line at its middle in front is called the symphysis? and each half of the body external to this line is called the horizontal ramus (or branch). At its hinder end each horizontal ramus turns suddenly upwards at a slightly obtuse angle, and terminates above in two processes, the front one of which is pointed and is called the " coronoid process" while the hinder one ends in a rounded head, "the condyle" mounted on a narrower part termed the "neck." This nearly vertical part on each side is called the ascend- ing ?'amus, and the point where its posterior margin meets the inferior margin of the horizontal ramus is named the " angle? (Fig. 83.) The condyle is wider than it is long, and fits into the glenoid cavity of the squamous part of the temporal bone. An inter- articular fibro-cartilage (with one synovial sac above it and one below it) is interposed between the two bones, and the ascending ramus is also attached to the skull by strong ligaments. The coronoid process rises nearly as high as the condyle, and has inserted into it the temporal muscle which adheres, at its origin, to the side of the skull within the arch of the zygoma. On the inner side of the ascending ramus is a foramen, called the inferior dental, and another, the mental foramen, is placed, more forwards, on the outer side of the horizontal ramus. The symphysis is concave vertically in front, the lower border of the mandible projecting at the symphysis to form the chin. 1 From ai'i/jLtpv/jLtf to grow together.