388 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. The ingrowth becomes pinched off, its hinder part forming the crystalline lens, its anterior part the aqueous humour. A third process intrudes inwards from one side, between these two growths, and forms the vitreous humour. The connective tissue around the whole structure becomes condensed, as the sclerotic. The external skin develops folds which increase and become the eyelids, and these are lined by a membrane re- flected over the eyeball and called the co?ijunctiva. At first the optic nerves are separated, not forming a chiasma. At the outer angle of the orbit is the lachrymal (or tear- secreting) gland, the tears passing down a canal which traverses the lachrymal bone—as before noticed—into the nares. In the possession of eyes man agrees with the immense majority of his sub-kingdom ; nevertheless, these parts may be quite rudimentary and covered by the external hairy skin, as in the Mole. They may even, as in Myxine, merely consist of a minute lens in contact with the end of the optic nerve, which is coated with pigment. The eye may be relatively much larger than in man, as eM in Tarsius, and in many Birds and Fishes. The sclerotic may be more or less ossified, as in Birds, Lizards, and many V ishes, but it is never so in man's own class. The orbital muscles have been already described. Part of the lateral process, which forms the vitreous^ humour, may persist in part in its more primitive condition as a distinct vascular membrane, covered with pigment, extending from near the entrance of the optic nerve to the lens. Such is the case in Birds and many lower forms, where it is called the pecten, or sometimes the marsupium. Lachrymal glands may be entirely absent, as e.g. in aquatic forms—Fishes and Cetaceans. Eyelids may be absolutely wanting, as in most osseous Fishes ; or they may be apparently so, as in Serpents, where they really exist in a transparent condition and quke with- Fig. 341.—Front View of the Eye, with the Eyelids. Lachrymal gland,LG; andlachry- mal duct, LD.