tel.] THE MUSCLES. 353 third, fourth, and fifth digits respectively. They are muscles however, which are largely developed only in the Mammalian class. The Pei'onetis tertius is, amongst Primates, exclusively human. Sometimes {e.g. in some individual Guinea-pigs) ^he tendon of the peroneus longus will pass down in front of the malleolus, and so simulate a peroneus tertius. It is said to be present in the Wombat. Peroneus longus. This may be altogether wanting, as in the Horse, and apparently in all below Mammals. Its tendon may, as in Hyrax, pass outside the malleolus instead of behind it. The muscle may take origin in part from the femur (as in the Ox and Opossum), and be inserted into the naviculare or second metatarsal. Peroneus brevis. This may be altogether absent in man's class, as in the Agouti. It may be reinforced by peronei muscles going to the fourth and fifth digits (and termed peronei quarli et quinti digiti), as in Lemur. These have exceedingly slender tendons. In the Rabbit, a muscle which springs from the front of the tibia and passes behind the internal malleolus, going to the extensor tendon of the second digit, has been called the tibialis secundi digiti. This does not exist in man. The gastrocnemius is generally a double muscle, but there may be only a single head and belly, as in the Echidna. The muscle may be very slender, and quite insignificant in size when compared with the flexor longus digitorum, as is the case in Loris. The muscle may be divided into two lateral portions, and become connected with quite other muscles, as is the case in the Iguana and Chameleon. Thus, in the Iguana the external head (which, contrary to the condition in most Mammals, is larger than the internal) ends below in a membrane which forms, as it were, perforated tendons for the digits. This head may arise, as in the Chameleon, by a tendon from the inter-articular cartilage. The internal head of the gastrocnemius of the Iguana is closely connected with the insertion of the semi-membra- nosus, and receives a tendon from the biceps. The internal head may arise from the tibia only, as is the case in Parson's Chameleon. This muscle (Fig. 314) may be absent or included in the semi-tendinosus (as in Menopoma), which in the sole becomes superficial to the flexor digitorum. The tendo Achillis, instead of being strongly inserted into the calcaneum, may A A