THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. IX.] 385 solid hemispheres, often with lobi inferiores (Fig. 335, 7), an enlarged roof to the third ventricle, and a pair of large hollow optic lobes, often with a fold of brain-substance running for- ward into their cavity, while what is commonly reckoned as the cerebellum is more or less developed, but without an arbor vitae. In the lowest forms we find instead of, as in man, a series of segments enclosed by an enormous expansion of what were primitively terminal bodies, merely a number of seg- ments plainly arranged in a linear series and undisguised by the excessive development of any one constituent part 18. The spinal marrow in man has been described in the r Elementary Physiology " (Lesson XI. § 4)—how the cylindri- cal nervous mass is divided by two vertical median fissures Fig. 339.—The Spinal Cord. A, Front View of a portion of the Cord. On the right side, the anterior roots of spinal nerves, AR}axo. entire; on the left side they aie cut, to show the posterior roots, PR. B, A Transverse Section of the Cord : A, the anterior fissure ; P, the posterior fissure; G, the central canal; C, the grey matter; IV, the white matter; AR,nhe anterior root ; PR, the posterior root; Gn, the ganglion ; and T, the trunk, of a spinal nerve. (one before and the other behind) into two lateral halves, each of which is again subdivided by the two vertical series of spinal nerve-roots (one series being made up of the anterior roots, the other of the posterior ones) into three subordinate and less-defined vertical segments. The spinal marrow extends (Fig. 35 [)from the foramen mag- num nearly to the second lumbar vertebra, being continuous above with the medulla oblongata, and so occupies about the upper two-thirds of the neural canal. Below this region the canal is occupied by a bundle formed of the elongated roots of those spinal nerves which pass out at the lower lum- bar and sacral foramina : this bundle is called the caudd equina. In the earlier stages of existence there is no such bundle, the spinal marrow then occupying the whole length of the neural canal.. A relic 0*" this early condition is seen c c