[less. ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. 1 See Lesson XT«, p. 458. tially consists of all those branches of the cerebro-spinal system which originally pass down to the viscera in the inner plate of each bifurcating visceral lamina of the embryo, and which are represented in the adult by branches similarly extending into the mesentery/ and by their serial homologues, no Fl }. 352 —I TAGRAM OF THE De VELOPMENT OF THE TRUNK AND its Skeleton, as shown in a section made at right angles to the trunk's long axis. 71c, neural canal ; ex, epaxial cartilages ascending to surround it; px, par- axial cartilages descending in the plate, or layer [Ive), external to//, the pleuro-peritoneal cavity ; Ivi, in- ternal plate of the split ventral lamina. Fig. 353.—Diagram of the farther Development of the Trunk, as shown in a section similar to the last. a, alimentary canal supported by a nne- sentery formed of the dorsal por. ion of the inner parts of the split wall of the embryonic ventral laminae ; <% epaxial arch ; /i, hypaxial arch de- scending in the median line in the root of the inner part of the split wall of the ventral laminae ; p, rib, bi- furcating proximaily and abutting ventrally against the sternum, which thus completes the paraxial arch ; m, peritoneum, bounding on all sides the pleuro-peri-cn *al space. Moreover, these branches are connected together on each side (near their origins) by commissural nerve-fibres, and it is these two linear series of commissures (enlarged into ganglia^ at their successive points of junction) which constitute the* two longitudinal gangliated cords before spoken of. It is the presence of these commissural cords which makes so marked a contrast between the sympathetic system and the, other branches of the spinal nerves, which in man exhibit no signs of such continuous longitudinal union. But an extended survey shows us that these latter (the undoubted spinal nerves) may also be connected together by similar axially extended commissural cords, for such do exist in the class of Pishes. The sympathetic nerves of the viscera present three great complications, termed (1) the cardiac plexus, (2) the solar plexus, and (3) the hypogastric plexus : these are placed respec- tively above the heart, behind the stomach, and in the pelvis.