VII.] THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. 241 scutes (to facilitate motion) interposed in the mid body region. In one form,however {Chlamydophorus\ bony scutes are confined to the hinder region of the body, where, as has been before mentioned, they coalesce with the pelvis. In an extinct creature of the Armadillo kind (the Glyptodon) the armour was even more complete, as there were no move- able bands, but the body was invested, from the neck to the root of the tail, with one solid case or carapace. In the Armadillos a horin epidermal skeleton is so ad- justed to the bony ease that the former is divisible into small plates or scales corresponding with the several bony scutes. A similar co-ordinate development of epidermal scales and dermal scutes is found in some Reptiles, as in certain Lizards \Cyclodus)% where the whole body is so doubly invested and protected, as it is also in the back of the Crocodile, A solid investment of osseous plates maj exist in Fishes, as in the bony Pike Lepidosieus and in Polypterus} but these plates will be spoken of under the bead of dermal appendages, when fishes' scales are under consideration. Certain Frogs (e.g. Eplnppifcr and „ m „ ~ . .7 N JP i j 1 Fig. 206.—PoLVfTEK' s. Ceratophrys) develop some dorsal en- deronic bony plates, which become. connected with the underlying backbone, presenting an appearance which reminds us of that extraordinary develop- ment of the skeleton which we find in Tortoises. As in the Armadillos we find bony scutes of the exo skeleton underlying horny epidermal scales, so we find beneath the tortoise-shell of Chelonians such endo-skeletal scutes together with large bony plates of the endo skeleton ; only, instead of the bony and horny structures being con- formable one to the other as in the Armadillos, neither the number nor the outline of the bony plates of Chelonians corresponds with the number or outline of their superincum bent horny scales (,Figs. 204 and 207). Moreover in Chelonians, as noticed in describing the axial skeleton, the median plates of the dorsal shield (or carapace) form one with parts of the backbone, and the Literal plates form one with the subjacent ribs. Besides these dorsal plates, larger ventral scutes cover the under surface of the body, forming what is called the plastron ; ami in the Box-Tortoises the ends of this plastron are movable and (the head and limbs being drawn in) can be applied to the ends of the carapace, R