24 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. [less.. The nature and mechanism of the different kinds of joint have been described in the Seventh Lesson of " Elementary Physiology," as well as the different kinds of movement which the jointed bones are capable of performing. Joints may be (a) immovable, (b) mixed, or (c) movable. (a) When bones are immovably joined by an interdigi- tation of their irregularly shaped margins (like the bones of the roof of the skull), they are said to be joined by siitiii'e; but they may also be immovably united by a ridge, or tongue/ on one bone being received into the grooved surface of another bone. (b) When the motion allowed is exceedingly slight (as between contiguous pieces of the backbone—or vertebrae), adjacent plain surfaces are connected together by the addi- tion of fibrous substance of one kind or another. (c) When the motion allowed is greater, the adjacent surfaces of the bones are coated with smooth cartilage, and motion is facilitated by a fluid called synovial.* Sometimes a third and separated cartilage (termed inter-articular) is placed between the cartilaginous surfaces of the jointed bones. The most movable joints are those in which the adjacent bones are articulated on the principle either of a pivot (like that between the two uppermost bones of the neck), or of a hinge (like that of the elbow), or a ball and socket (like that of the shoulder). If one convex articulating surface be globular, it is termed a head; if it be elongated it is called a condyle. If either of these is borne upon a narrow portion of bone, this latter is called a neck. If a pulley-like surface is formed by such a juxtaposition of two condyles as to leave a depression be- tween them, such an articular surface is named a trochlea* The anatomy of animals (or zootomy)3, as distinguished from the exclusive studv of man's own anatomy (or an- thropotomy*') shows us that bones may be united in ways 1 From <ruvt with, and wov> an egg. The fluid is. contained in a fibrous bag or sac. 2 From rpoxoc, a pulley; -rp<'xu>, to run. 3 £c7>oi/, an animal, and r^fjuetv, to cut. 4 avOpcoiTog, a man, and Tt-'^aicn', to cut. Fig. 37.—Articulation of a large spine, by shackie-joint, with a boa}'- plate (placed below) of the skin of a Siluroid fish.