198 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. wanting, as in Testudo, or all but wanting, as in the Wombat. It may be very narrow, as in Pteropus. It may be much marked, as in the Ruminants. The pit for the origin of the popliteus muscle may be much deeper, and coexist with a similar pit in the external condyle (for the origin of the flexor longus digitorum muscle), which condition, together with the narrowness of the rotular surface, may give the lower end of the femur a peculiar aspect, as in Pteropus. The external condyle may present a marked groove sub- dividing it. This is the case in Birds, where this groove serves to receive the head of the fibula. Instead of the concavity which exists in man at the pos- tero-inferior part of the shaft (increased through the back- ward projecting of the condyles), this part may be nearly flat, as in Birds. Neither tuberosity is ever perforated like the internal con- dyle of the humerus in some Mammals. The femur may be only a rudiment even in some Mammals, Fig. 169.—Skeleton of Rudimentary Pelvic Limb of Boa Constrictor. {After Fiirbriugcr?) ft rudimentary femur, at the end of which is(^)a minute, triangular, and hook like tibia ; i, so-called pubis—possibly an enormous ilio-pectineal eminence ; /, rudimentary ilium ; p, ischium, or pubo-ischium. as e.g. some fin Whales ; and the same may be the case in some Reptiles, as e.g. Lialis Burtonii, Boa, and Stenostoma. The patella may be wanting altogether in man's own class, as in the Wombat. It may be very small, as in the Bats and Seals. It maybe very narrow in proportion to its length, as in the Agouti ; or extraordinarily large and elongated, as in the Grebe; or represented by two super-imposed ossifica- tions, as in the Ostrich. Every trace of it may be wanting, as in the Frogs and Tortoises. It may be irregular in shape, as in the Bustard and Ostrich. 13. That important bone of man, the TIBIA, attains a yet greater relative size in very many Vertebrates than it does in him. Like the femur, however, it is not universally present in every class, as it has no distinct representative in Fishes. As compared with its fellow leg-bone (the fibula), the tibia