vi.] GENERAL VIEW OF INTERNAL SKELETON. 229 they so in the sense that each of the successive cranial arches (each cranial segment) answers to the centrum neurapophyses and neural spine of a vertebral arch (or spinal segment)—i.e. are they modified vertebras? To this it must be replied that in development the parts which transitorily or permanently represent in cartilage the bony brain-case of man are never serially segmented, and thus differ fundamentally from the cartilaginous predecessors of the bony vertebrae. Neverthe- less, it cannot be denied that there is a singular and striking reminiscence of vertebrae in the three arches of the bony skull. Certainly, if the essence of vertebrae consists in being a series of bony rings fitted together and enclosing the nervous centres, then it must be asserted that the skull is in part composed of three bony vertebrae. Moreover the condition, before described, of Bagrus (Fig. 60) shows how undoubted vertebrae may become expanded, like the bony arches form- ing the cranial walls. In their mode of development, how- ever, these cranial segments certainly do not agree with true vertebrae, though they have this singular secondary and in- duced resemblance to such skeletal parts. It may be objected, however, that the number of the splanchnapophysial arches does not correspond with that of the cranial ones. To this it may be rejoined, either (1) that, as is very probably the case, more numerous primitive cranial segments have coalesced or ceased to be developed, though their hypaxial members still persisting, point to their former existence ; or (2) that though the paraxial and hypapophysial arches correspond in number with the vertebral segments of their respective regions, yet that the splanchnapophysial arches, belonging to a category by themselves, may really answer to the existing epaxial arches, and this as follows:— The trabeculae to the first arch ; The palatine arch to the sphenoidal arch ; The mandible to the occipital arch ; The hyoid and cornua to the atlas ; The hyoid and cornicula to the axis ; and The succeeding splanchnapophysial arches to the several succeeding cervical vertebrae or their representatives in lower animals. On the other hand, it may be that these arches correspond with aborted vertebrae, all the centra of which are, in existing animals, represented only by the basi- occipital and basi-sphenoid. 17. We may now review man's limb-bones (or appendi- cular skeleton) in the most generalized way.