[less. 56 ELEMENTAR V ANA TOMY. Thus: (A) it may be looked at with regard to its relation to the nerves which pass out through its foramina in front or, (B) with regard to the skeleton only, and this again from three other points of view : (i) with regard to the skeletal ele- ments which comprise it ; (2) with regard to its connexion with the hip-bones, and (3) with regard to the bony union of more or fewer vertebrae into one solid and complex mass. The sacrum of nervous supply {i.e. as estimated by the destination of the nerves passing out through it) is much more constant than the purely osteological sacrum. It never probably embraces more than seven or less than two, perhaps rarely less than three vertebrae. But while in man it is the two or three pre-axial sacral vertebrae which have distinct costal elements, and while a similar coexistence is probably universal in his class, very different conditions may possibly obtain when we descend further in the scale of animal life. Thus, in Birds the sacrum of nervous supply appears in part to be made up of vertebrae which have no expanded sacral ribs, while large transverse processes are attached to the most post-axial vertebrae of the nervous sacrum. The purely osteological sacrum is a very variable part with regard to all the three conditions above enumerated, varying even in the same species with the advance of age. Man agrees with most if not all Mammals in having the more pre-axial part of his large sacral transverse process a distinct costal element. In Birds, however, the vertebrae of the sacrum which have expanded transverse processes, do not de- velop these from distinct ossifications. In lower forms {e.g. Crocodiles and Tailed-Batrachians) the sacral vertebrae have, on the contrary, a distinct and unmistakable rib attached to each transverse process. As regards the extent of connexion between the osteologi- cal sacrum and the hip-bones, union is more extensive in man than in most beasts, or animals below Birds. Often in Mam- mals, and almost always in Tailed-Batrachians, it may be con- fined to a single vertebra. On the other hand, ten vertebrae may be involved in this union in Mammals, and twenty in Birds. That part of the haunch-bone which we shall find is named the ilium, alone unites in Birds (Fig. 66, tl) with this great number of vertebrae ; but in man's class it only joins four 1 As to the nerves, see Lesson VIII.