7 HE CRANIAL SKELETON. III.] 99 Again, it may be divided into two parts, its upper portion being reckoned as a distinct bone {interparietal) as, e.g., very often in Rodents. A still more divided condition of the supra- occipital may obtain, as in the Ganoid fish Lepidosteus. On the other hand, as in the Frogs and Toads, the supra- occipital may be absent altogether, the lateral portions, or exoccipitals, meeting as well above as below the foramen magnum. The faintly marked superior curved lines of the human occiput are but feeble representations of the great bony pro- jections which the occipital bone may develop. Thus, even in one of the forms nearest to man—the Gorilla—there may be an enormous lambdoidal ridge. In Ruminants, again, this ridge may be largely de- veloped, and have bony ex- tensions (the horns) reaching out from it, as in the Ox. The jugular process of man may be developed to a much greater extent, bearing the name of par-occipital or para- mastoid process, as e.g. in the Babirussa and Capybara. It may help to form the tym- panic cavity, as in Birds, or be s completely absent, as in the Ichthyopsida. A singular relationship : seems often to exist between an aquatic habit* and defect- ive development of the basilar part of the occipital bone. Thus this part is altogether absent in Batrachians, it is often imperfectly ossified in Seals, and seems to be rudimentary in some of the Cetacea. In the last-named animals, as also in very many Fishes, the supra-occipital is brought into direct connexion with the frontal—a condition very different from that of man. 20. Whereas the occipital bone of man is the representative of four distinct bones in lower animals, his parietal bone, on the contrary, is in its normal condition, as it arises always from a single ossification. Indeed, not only is it never more ' complex than in him, but in many animals {e.g. the Mono- ■ tremes, Serpents, and the Salmon) the two parietals anchylose at a very early period into a single, median bone. Fig. 96.—Side View of the Skull of an adult male gorilla. o, supra-orbital ridge ; s, sagittal ridge (a lofty plate as indicated by the shading) ; /, lambdoidal ridge—the last is foreshortened as it projects laterally.