475 THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. XII.] Fig. 399.—Larynx and upper part of Trachea of a Rattlesnake {Crotahis horri- dus). Front {i.e. ventral) aspect. {After Heule.) e, epiglottis ; f and g, muscles of la- rynx. cricoid cartilages may be represented by a single circular cartilage with arytenoid cartilages annexed, as in the Croco- dile. This circular cartilage may present defects of solidi- fication like those just spoken of in the thyroid of Birds, as is the case in many Lizards. An essentially similar structure may be greatly prolonged, as in many Serpents (e.g. Crotalus and Hydro- phis) ^ where we find two elongated lateral bands connected by numerous transverse bars which are separated from each other by membranous interspaces. Arytenoid cartilages may be distinct or may be mere processes. The simplest form of larynx seems to be that of Proteus, where there are only two slender elongated cartilages (the anterior ends of which appear to represent the aryte- noids) placed one on each side of the slit- like glottis, which opens in the middle of the ventral wall of the pharynx. A median air-sac may protrude anteriorly from the front of the larynx between the first ring of the trachea and the conjoined thy- ro-cricoid cartilage. Such is the case in the Chameleon. 8. As has been said, respi- ration may be effected by means of the air contained in water—i.e. by AQUATIC RESPI- RATION. For this purpose the animals which so respire do not ordinarily take water into aquatic lungs as the air-breath- ing Vertebrates take air ; but blood is copiously brought to a surface specially exposed to a flow of water almost constantly maintained by one process or another. It may be that this flow is effected by the action of vibratile cilia1 propelling the water through numerous perforations in a greatly enlarged pharynx, 1 For a description of cilia see " Elementary Physiology," Lesson VII. § 3. Fig. 400. — Tracheal Structure of Proteus, opened from behind. A, arytenoid part of each of the two cartilages ; T, its tracheal part; B, branchial arch ; M, muscle going from the branchial arch to the larynx.