ELEMENTARY ANATOMY, [less. 1 'Ei/to£, inward. 2 From nivoc, middle. 3 'Ektoj;, without. The calcaneu77t (or os calcis) is the bone of the heel, and forms the posterior part of the arch of the foot, of which the astragalus forms the keystone. The os calcis projects much downwards posteriorly, but not inwards, and is thick and rounded at its hinder end (called its tuberosity), into which is inserted the te?ido Achillis of the muscles of the calf. The calcaneum articulates with the astragalus above and with the cuboides in front. The naviculare (or scaphoid of the foot) is much wider than long. Behind, its surface is concave for the reception of the head of the astragalus. In front it presents three surfaces for articulation with the three cuneiform bones. Only the innermost of these surfaces is convex, and that but very slightly. Its inner margin sends down an obtuse process, called its tuberosity. Of the three cuneiform bones, the innermost, the ento- cuneiforme,x is the largest. Narrow above and broad below, it presents an elongated articular surface, which is nearly flat, for the metatarsal of the great toe. The meso-cuneifor77ie'2 is the smallest bone of the tarsus. It does not reach so far forwards as do its neighbours. It agrees with the ecto- cuneiforuie^ in presenting a nearly flat articular surface for the metatarsal which joins it. The cuboides, placed on the outer side of the tarsus, articu- lates with the os calcis behind, and with both the fourth and fifth metatarsals in front. Its inferior surface is traversed by a deep groove (for the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle), behind which is a prominence for the attachment of a liga- ment. 7. The metatarsus consists of five elongated bones, of which the first or innermost is much the thickest and the shortest. The metatarsals have long shafts, which, except that of the first, are slender, and have enlarged bases and rounded heads. The bases, or tarsal ends, of the four outer metatarsals have quadrangular articular surfaces, which are almost flat, and are as if bevelled off, so that the axis of each such metatarsal is not perpendicular to its proximal articular surface. Thus these metatarsals come to be directed more inwardly than would otherwise b? L]ie case. The rounded heads of the metatarsals articulate with the hinder concavities of the proximal phalanges.