[less. 438 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. exist in the tongue and in the inside of the skin investing the jaws, as in many Reptiles,—these latter structures answering to our buccal glands, as do also the salivary glands of harmless Serpents. Poisonous Serpents however are pro- vided with an extra glandular structure, placed beneath and behind the orbit. This gland it is which secretes the venom, and its ducts convey the poisonous fluid to the base of the deeply-grooved poison fang described in the Seventh Lesson. By a very rare and remarkable exception, the poison gland may (as in Callophis intestinaiis) attain enor- mous proportions, extending backwards as far as the heart, being lodged in the general cavity of the body. In the class of Birds we may find sub-maxillary glands occupying the whole of the anterior part of the space included by the rami of the lower jaw ; or, as in the Woodpecker, a single gland extending from between the angles of the man- dible to its symphysis, and furnished with a distinct duct. In man's own class, both the number and relative size of j the salivary glands may differ from what we find in him. j Thus there may be, as in the Dog, an extra structure, called I the zygomatic gland, placed in the floor of the orbit, behind | the anterior root of the zygoma (its duct opening opposite j the last true molar), and also another, the seco?id, or accessory sub-maxillary gland, smaller, and placed beneath the true sub-maxillary, its long duct opening close to the aperture of I the true sub-maxillary of the same side. I The parotid also, as in the same animal, may be some- what smaller in size than the sub-maxillary, but this dispro- ! portion is insignificant in comparison with that produced by ! the enormous development which the sub-maxillary glands sometimes acquire, as in the Ant-eaters, where these glands I meet together and unite on the chest, superficially to the j sternum. The sub-maxillary ducts may each be connected I with a dilated vesicle, or salivary bladder, as in the Arma- V dillos; or they may branch out and break up, opening by | many minute orifices on the floor of the mouth, as in the I Echidna; or each may remain single, but take a very tortuous course, as in the Ornithorhynchus. Parotid glands may be absent (the other salivary glands being present) in man's own class, as in the Monotremes. 6. Man's TONGUE is a muscular body connected with thej os hyoides in the way already noticed in the Eighth Lesson.I Its under surface is bound down by a fold of mucous mem-I brane, called the frcenumy which proceeds from the middle!