x.J THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. 409 that of the pulmonary artery (so called because it conveys blood to the lungs), which is guarded by three membranous folds, termed the semilunar valves. The left auricle has no less than four orifices ; namely, those of the four pulmonary veins. Their openings are not guarded by any valves. The left ventricle, much thicker than any other chamber of the heart, has, besides the opening between it and the left auricle, one large aperture guarded by three crescentic flaps (the semilunar valves of the aorta), which valves re- semble in structure those of the pulmonary artery. 3. At its first embryonic appearance the heart is merely a tube. In the development of the heart this tube becomes bent upon itself and divided into two chambers. The pre- axial chamber (nearest the head) becomes subdivided into the ventricles ; the post-axial one (which alone receives blood from the body) becomes the auricles—which later grow to be pre-axial to the ventricles. The further subdivision of each chamber into a right and left segment is accomplished by the ingrowth of two septal projections, which gradually become complete partitions, though the partition between the auricles is not complete at birth, an aperture existing then in that place which subse- quently becomes the fossa ovalis. The septum between the ventricles arises in such a manner as to divide the chamber giving origin to the pulmonary artery from the one whence springs that great primary artery, the aorta. 4. Turning now to survey the heart as it exists in Verte- brate animals generally, we find that different creatures exhibit permanently conditions which are but transitory in man. In so far as the heart of man consists of four distinct cavities it agrees with that of all other animals not only of his own class, but also of the class of Birds together with the Croco- dilian group. It may be that the ventricles are but imperfectly divided, as is the case in all Reptiles except Crocodiles, in which latter they are completely separated. The auricles themselves may also communicate perma- nently, as in some Chelonians ; while, on the other hand, that trace of primitive division, the fossa ovalis, may be more com- pletely obliterated than in man, as is the case in the Kangaroo. Where (as in Batrachians) the heart has but a single ven- tricle, the root of the aorta is dilated into a bulbus aorta7,