3^9 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. IX.] as they advance, and are crossed superficially by two an- teriorly converging round cords, the optic tracts (which unite to form the optic nerves), and thus a lozenge-shaped space is enclosed. - In the hinder part of this space are two small rounded bodies placed side by side, called the corpora mammillaria. In front of these is a slight prominence termed the tuber cinereum, from the middle of which pro- jects a conical process, the infundibulum \ at the end of the infundibulum is a small oval reddish mass called the pituitary body, which is received into the pituitary fossa (or sella turcica) of the sphenoid bone. In front and beside these small median parts are those voluminous masses the cerebral hemispheres, which thus form the larger part of even the under surface of the brain. The great longitudinal fissure is seen in the middle line in front, and another considerable lateral fissure (called the Sylvian fissure) separates obliquely (Fig. 325) the anterior (or frontal) lobe from the one behind (or temporal lobe) of the same hemisphere. This Sylvian fissure receives (when the brain is in place) the hinder edge of the orbital wing of the sphenoid, while the frontal lobe lies upon the orbital plate ot the frontal bone, and the temporal lobe lies in that cranial fossa which is bounded in front by the orbital wing of the sphe- noid and behind by the petrous part of the temporal bone. In a groove on the under surface of each frontal lobe is a body, shaped something like a life-preserver, with an oblong head and a long stalk. This is the olfactory lobe, the so- called " olfactory nerve." Upon turning back the optic tracts—at their union in what is called the optic commissure—a delicate layer is seen to connect them with the anterior end of the corpus callosum. This delicate layer is called the lamina cinerea, or lamina terminalis. When the brain is viewed in profile we see the convoluted surface of one of the cerebral hemispheres with the deep Sylvian fissure running backwards and slightly upwards from its inferior margin, and separating the temporal lobe from the frontal one. When this fissure is opened out, a triangular convoluted prominence is exposed, called the Island of Reil. Below and behind the cerebrum we see the cerebellum with the pons Varolii in front of it, beneath which the medulla rfins down to merge into the spinal cord (Fig, 325). To obtain a more complete knowledge of the structure of the brain, certain definite sections must be made. B B