THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. 419 X.] in Birds, we may have a primitively double aortic arch spring- ing from the left ventricle only. Of this primitively double arch it may be the left half only (Fig. 366), which is developed, as in Mammals, or the right half only (Fig. 365), as in Birds. When there are two aortic arches, one from each ven- tricle, these two arches may open into each other by a small foramen just outside the heart, as in Crocodiles. Thus we see that man's earliest condition is most re- sembled by Fishes, which, however, may have a greater number of arches than are ever developed in him, and, moreover, these arches may all persist simultaneously. Also a variety of other Conditions, transitory in man, may be per- manently retained by animals of different kinds. Fig. 363.—Diagram representing the Vessels and Aortic Arches of A Snake, and the changes which the primitive condition (Fig. 358) has undergone. In this and the three following figures the parts left blank are those which abort. {After H. Ratkke.) a, a, internal carotids ; b, b, external carotids ; c, common carotids; d, d, d, fight main aortic arch ; e, vertebral artery ; fff left aortic arch ; g, commencement of the de- scending aorta; h, k, pulmonary- artery ; i, remnant of a primitive aortic arch—or ductus Botalli—here a remnant of the right first aortic arch, No. 5 of Fig. 358. Fig. 364.—Diagram representing the Vessels and Aortic Arches of a Lizard, with the changes in- duced on the primitive condition. {After H. Ratkke.) a, a, internal carotids ; b, b, external carotids ; c, c, common carotids ; d, d, anastomosis between the in- ternal carotids and the secondary aortic arches ; e, e, right main aortic arch; f,f, the subclavian arteries (which give off the vertebral, here not represented) ; g, commencement of the great dorsal aorta ; k, h, left main aortic arch ; z, z, z", pulmonary arte- ries ; k, k, rudiments of the first (right and left) aortic arches,— Nos. 5, 5, of Fig. 358. The great arteries of the head and pectoral limbs may diverge from the aortic arch in different combinations in man's own class. E E 2