If. I 33 THE SPINAL SKELETON. At the summit of the sacrum is a pair of articular pro- cesses, which join the lower articular processes of the last lumbar vertebra. The lower end of the sacrum is devoid of similar pro- cesses, or has them only represented by rudiments. On each side of the upper part of the sacrum is a large irregular surface, which is coated with cartilage, and articu- lates with the hip or haunch bone. This is called the auricularx surface. 14. The last part of man's spine is, as has been said already, the COCCYX, which consists usually of four rudimentary vertebras, completely or partially united so as to form a small conical bone. Its uppermost part (i.e. the first coccygeal vertebra) articulates with the lower end of the sacrum, not only by its centrum, but also by two little arti- cular processes ; it has besides two pIG 45 _The coccyx rudimentary transverse processes and At its upper end are the rudimentary pedicles, between which two prezygapophyses. latter membrane alone extends to clo:e the neural canal. Below this the coccyx is destitute of pro- cesses, and consists of but smaller and smaller vertebral centra fused together. Thus the last vertebra is the very opposite of the first (or atlas), being all centrum, while the atlas has no centrum at all. The coccyx usually becomes anchylosed to the sacrum about or after the middle of life. 15. The WHOLE series of vertebras are so disposed that the backbone, when seen in profile, forms four sigmoid curves, directed alternately forwards and backwards (see Fig. 38). Thus in the neck it is slightly convex forwards, more convex backwards in the dorsal region, rather strongly convex forwards in the loins, while below this the terminal part of the column sweeps round in a more marked curvature concave in front, the coccyx continuing onwards the vertical curve of the sacrum. These gentle curves together form a line of beauty, and give to the vertebral column a strength ten times greater than it would have were it quite vertical. The thickness of the front part of the backbone (formed of the vertebral centra) increases slowly downwards to the 1 From its resemblance to the outline of t\e external ear.