vi. ] GENERAL VIE W OF INTERNAL SKELETON. 215 tion, man shares, speaking broadly, the characters of his class. Ossification is carried further in the class of Birds, but much less far in Batrachians and Fishes. In some Fishes, indeed (both of the highest and lowest forms), the entire skeleton remains throughout life persistently cartilaginous, while in the lowest form of all Vertebrates (the Amphioxus or Lancelet) it is mainly represented by fibrous membrane only. 2. Reviewing the form and development of the spine in man, we may note certain significant facts and generaliza- tions :— (1) The backbone exhibits to us a good example of serial symmetry. The successive vertebrae are evidently serial re- petitions of parts in some sense the same, i.e. are serial homologues, or homotypes. # (2) We find that modifications may be produced by the suppression in some vertebrae of parts existing in others, as e.g. of the neural arch in the coccygeal vertebrae. (3) We rind that modifications may be produced by the coalescence of parts by anchylosis, e.g. the anchylosis of the sacral vertebrae to form the sacrum. (4) Parts bony in one portion of the spine may be repre- sented by membrane only in another, as we see in the neural canal of the sacrum closed in part by membrane only. (5) A vertebra with annexed parts (two ribs and the inter- vening piece of the sternum) may completely encircle the body cavity. This suggests the question whether there may not be membranous representatives of ribs similarly enclosing the body cavity, annexed to paits of the spine where there appear to be no bony ribs, as e.g. in man's lumbar and cervical regions. (6) The transverse processes of some at least of the cervical vertebrae arise by separate centres. This suggests the ques- tion as to whether their nature may not be essentially dif- ferent from that of the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae. (7) We have seen that a vertebra may include (besides a centrum and neural arch with its processes) double transverse processes, vertebral and sternal ribs, and a sternal segment; the whole forming an external or (parietal) ventral arch, while beneath the centrum may be developed a second, deeper, more internal hypapophysial arch. (8) The varying conditions presented by the two vertebrae next the skull in different animals above Fishes, suggest the question whether we can reduce to a common type that