356 [less. ELEMENTARY ANA TO MY. and in Birds. It may extend almost the whole length of the fibula, as in Phalangista. It may be entirely wanting, as in Bats. Besides the muscles which in man connect together the fibula and tibia, two others may exist. One of these, the rotator fibula, is developed in the Lemuroidea. It extends from the back surface of the tibia to the front of the fibula, the fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards. It lies beneath the popliteus, and its anterior surface is covered by the peroneus longus. Another muscle, the fibres of which go in the opposite direction, exists in the Wombat and some other allied forms. It passes downwards from the fibula to the tibia in^ the place of the interosseous membrane. It is largely deve- loped in the Iguana, Chameleon, and Menopoma, and has been calledperoneo-tibial (Fig. 320, FT). The flexor longus digitorum pedis may take origin not only from the leg, but also from the femur, as in Nycticebiis and Pteropus; and it may have mainly a fibular origin, as in the Armadillo and Cape Ant-eater. Even in man's own order {e.g. in Lemur) it may present the singular character of origin from the front of the leg, ascending between the rotator fibulae (before mentioned) above and across the interosseous membrane, so as to be in contact with the pos- terior margin of the tibialis anticus. It may be very much smaller than the flexor longus hallucis, as in the Agouti and Hyrax, and especially in the Virginian Opossum. It may, on the contrary, be very much larger indeed than the other, and have a double origin from the femur, thus indeed forming two muscles, as in Chamceleo Parsonii (Fig. 316). The gene- rally slight connexion which exists between the tendons of the two long flexors of man is, as it were, a remnant of a far closer connexion existing in other forms, as (in the ex- treme) in the Horse and Tapir, where they unite completely into one tendon, which then again divides, in the latter animal, to form the perforating tendons of the digits. The flexor longus pollicis pedis sen hallucis may thus entirely blend with the last-noticed muscle as regards its tendon. On the contrary, as in Cyclothurus, it may be more completely separated from it than in man. It may be entirely absent, or it may be very large as in the Three-toed' Sloth. It may be present but send no tendon to the hallux, as in the Orang, in which it springs from the outer condyle. It may appear on the front of the leg, as in Chama>leo Parsonii. It is