VIII. j 36i THE MUSCLES. senting normally certain special peculiarities, though such differences are not absolutely constant, owing to individua variation. Thus he is peculiar in the following points : He has an extensor primi internodii pollicis and a peroneus ter- tius. He has the flexor longus pollicis disconnected from the flexor profundus digitorum. His soleus arises both from the tibia and the fibula, and his flexor brevis digitorum springs entirely from the calcaneum. Moreover, the pero- neal interosseus muscle of the second toe arises on the dorsal side of the origin of the tibial interosseus of the middle toe. 29. In comparing the myology of the pectoral and pelvic limbs of man, we find that owing to the diverse flexure of the two limbs, the extensors are placed forwards in the lower limb, backwards in the upper one. The flexors of the upper limb easily bend the hand upon the arm, but those of the lower cannot bend rhe foot upon the leg ; at the most they straighten it—a motion called " extension/7 but which is really an imperfect " flexion." The serial homology of the appendicular muscles can only be understood by imagining the limbs in their primitive position, with the extensors outwards, the flexors inwards. Then we have the supra- and infra-spinatus and the iliacus, the extensor carpi radialis and tibialis anticus, all pre-axial ; the sub-scapularis and glutei, the peronei and the extensor ulnaris, all post-axial. The muscles inserted into the post-axial tuberosity of the humerus lie in man on the inner side of the thoracic girdle (sub-scapular surface), those inserted into the post-axial tro- . chanter of the femur lie on the outer side of the pelvic girdle (gluteal surface). Their positions may, however, correspond unmistakably, as in the Echidna. Muscles inserted into the pre-axial trochanter arise within 'the ribs. No muscles so arising (except in Chelonians) go to the pre-axial tuberosity. In man there are no common flexors or extensors taking origin in the hand in the upper limb, and none such springing from the femur in the lower one ; but we have seen that both these conditions may exist in other animals. In the arm, the long flexors of the thumb and digits arise on the same side of the limb as that to which they are distributed. In the leg, they arise from the opposite side to that of their distribution, their tendons crossing each other.