124 [less. ELEMENTAR Y ANA TO MY. The body of the hyoid may be in quite a rudimentary con- dition, as in the Sheep, or swollen and inflated to an enor- mous relative size, as in the Howling Monkey. It may develop in front a long, median, projecting process, termed a glosso-hyal, as in the Horse, which in man is only repre- sented by the vertical ridge on the anterior convex surface ot the body of the os hyoides. When we descend below man's class we may find {e.g. in Birds) that the cornicula more or less abort, while the cornua are very long and slender. A glosso-hyal may not only extend forwards from the basi-hyal, but another azygos median part (the uro-hyal) may extend backwards from the basi-hyal. A most unexpected condition may exist, as we see by the Woodpeckers, in which both the elongated cornua curve over the back part of the cranium, and are together inserted just above and behind the right nostril ! In Reptiles we may (as in the Crocodiles) find a car- tilaginous body together with one pair of cartilaginous cornua, and these not joining the skull. But generally both cornua and cornicula are developed, and may be large and complex, as in the true Lizards, and the glosso-hyal may be enormous, as in the Chameleon. When, however, we descend to the class Batra- chia we begin to perceive the full signi- ficance of the hyoidean cornua, and this by means of the transformation under- gone by the Frog in its passage from its larval (and fish-like) state as a tad- pole to its adult condition. In the fully-developed state the os Fig. 112.— Hyoid of a , ., r *u t ■ A r ,-. Uzard-Lacerta. hyoides of the Frog consists of a body {After Cttvier.) with, a pair of cornua and a pair of corni- bh. body of the hyoid : cula. But the process of development c\ comicuium ; shows that the pair of cornua are the last cornua; gk, glosso- r , hyal; u, uro-hyal. rudiments and relics of those cartilagi- nous arches which exist on each side of the neck in the larva and support the gills. These cartilaginous gill-arches of the tadpole evidently answer to the great cartilaginous branchial (or gill) arches 1 of the Sharks, and to the bony branchial arches of the osseous 1 For further details concerning these arches see Lesson XII.