THE MUSCLES. VIII.] 321 Horse) extends from the spines of the dorsal vertebrae to the occiput, sending down a lamellar expansion to the spines of the cervical vertebrae. In the Giraffe it extends back even to the sacrum. This ligament may become ossified, as in the Mole. The latissimtis dorsi is another nearly constant muscle, though of varying extent. It may, as in many Apes, send a slip on to the olecranon, or even, as in the Echidna, to the flexor carpi ulnaris with which it blends. It may be divided into two parts, as is the case in the Echidna. It may arise within the ribs, as in Chelonians, e.g. Emys. It may be very small, as in Menopoma (Fig. 282). Finally, it may com- pletely unite with the trapezius, as in Anguis fragilis, or it may be altogether wanting. The rhomboidei may be more divided than in man, as in the Mole; or single, as in the Hawk; or absent, as in the Apteryx and apparently in lower forms. A rhomboideus capitis, which sometimes exists in man, is often present in lower forms, as e.g. in Lemur and Nycticebus, Levator anguli scapular. This is essentially and morpho- logically the anterior part of that great muscle by which, in quadrupeds, the trunk is slung between the summits of the scapulae—the greater part of which goes by the name of the serratus magnus—rather than a really distinct muscle. There is a muscle commonly existing in Mammals, but which is developed only by rare exception in man. This (the levator clavicular) extends from the atlas to the scapula or to the clavicle ; it is well seen in Apes. It is a muscle of considerable constancy, as it is found of a very large relative size in Reptiles, e.g. Lguana (Fig. 284). It may arise from the occipital region, as in Chameleo. Another muscle, not found in man, but developed in some Mammals {e.g. the Horse and Hyrax), is termed the sterno- scapular. It extends from the sternum over the scapulo- humeral articulation to the superior vertebral angle of the scapula. The serrati postici superior and inferior are both repre- \ sented in many Mammals by one single continuous muscle, \ which seems to attain its maximum of development in the Hyrax. Only the inferior serratus posticus may be present, as in the Three-toed Sloth, while sometimes (as in the Bats) it is the superior which is exclusively, or all but exclusively, 1 developed. The splenius capitis is a muscle the possession of which Y