394 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. almost universal, the only exceptions being the Lampreys, which have but two canals, and the Myxine, which has but I one—the whole organ in it consisting of but one circular canal. A cochlea is present in all Mammals and Sauropsida, but j only in the former is it spirally coiled, and not in all of them, it bein; but slightly twisted in Monotremes as in Sauro-- psidans. In man's own division, the Monodelphous Mammals, \ the cochlea may be less coiled than in him, namely only one and a half times {e.g. the Hedgehog) ; or more so than in him, as in the Paca, which has it coiled five times. The membranous labyrinth may, as in Fishes, be en- closed by hard structures (bone or cartilage) in such a way that no fenestras are left unsolidified, but at the same time the bony chamber (or otocrane) may be widely open inter- nally, as eg. in the Carp, Cod, &c. The opening of the primitive involution of the integument to form the ear may persist throughout life, as in the Rays, where it opens on the top of the head by a valvular aperture. The external auditory meatus may be quite absent, as in Fishes and Tailed-Batrachians, and the tympanic membrane may appear on the surface of the cranium (though covered with a layer of skin), as in many Frogs and Lizards. The internal part of the primitive cleft (i.e. the Eustachian tube) may be absent, as in Fishes ; or the two tubes may unite into a single and median aperture, as in Birds and the Toad Pipa; or they may open (as in the Crocodiles) by three apertures—one median and two lateral ones—each lateral Eustachian tube forming a singularly complex and contorted canal. They may have narrow openings into the pharynx, as in the higher Vertebrates, or wider ones, as in Frogs. The auditory ossicles may be very different from those of man in form and relative size. Thus their relations have been asserted to be as follows :— In the malleus of man the processus gracilis creeps down, as it were, to the Glasserian fissure, but it remains much smaller than the manubrium. As we descend in the animal scale we find these proportions reversed, till in the Echidna the very large malleus has an enormous processus gracilis, which descends in close contiguity to the lower jaw. In the Sauropsida the enormous malleus becomes segmented, one portion constituting the os quadratum, and the other forming the os articulare of the mandible.