ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 422 The systemic arteries (excluding retia mirabilia and gill structures from consideration) never, after dividing, reunite in a second aggregation. The same is not the case with the veins, for certain of them, on their way back to the heart, break up into a minute network in the liver, whence they reunite and emerge in a large trunk, which then unites with the rest of the systemic venous system, and enters the heart. This secondary distri- bution of blood in the liver (the primary distribution there, being that of arterial blood by the hepatic artery) is what is called the portal circulation. The veins which diverge and become smaller in the liver—conveying venous blood into it —are called portal veins. The veins which collect them- selves, unite and so become larger in the liver—conveying venous blood out of it—are called hepatic veins. The blood from the brain and from within the cranium is collected on each side into the internal jugitlar vein, which passes out of the skull at the foramen lacerum pos- terius, and, descending the neck, joins the subclavian vein (of the same side of the body), which is the one bringing back the blood from the arm. The blood from the outside of the head, from the muscles, teeth, &c, is collected on each side by the external jugular, which descends the neck and also opens into the subclavian. A great trunk, the innominate, is thus formed (by the union of the two jugulars and the subclavian) on each side of the body, and the two innominate veins joining together form a yet greater trunk, called the vena cava superior, which opens, as has been already mentioned, into the right auricle. The veins of the legs collect themselves together into great vein, called the external iliac, which passes in (fron the limb to the abdomen) over the front brim of the pelvis, and is joined by the internal iliac, bringing blood from the pelvic viscera. This junction forms what is called the common iliac vein, there being, of course, one for each side of the body. The two common iliacs unite and form one large and long ascending trunk, called the vena cava inferior, which perforates the diaphragm, and pours its blood also into the right auricle. On its way this trunk receives blood from a middle sacral vein (corresponding with the similarly-named artery); fron the kidneys (by short, wide renal veins); it also receives blood from certain other parts ; and, finally, it receives blood fron the hepatic veins, of which more must be said.