vi. ] GENERAL VIE W OF INTERNAL SKELE TON. 223 such arches belong to the hypaxial category of hard parts. Nevertheless, as they are placed beneath the anterior end of the alimentary tube, they evidently do not exactly answer to those hypaxial elements of the coccygeal vertebrae, the hypapophyses—for these, in Crocodiles and others, are placed above the posterior continuation of the intestinal tube. At the same time they cannot answer to ribs and sternum (i.e. cannot be paraxial parts), for such parts must be outside the line of the pleuro-peritoneal cavity. Thus it appears that man's upper and lower jaws, and also his hyoidean apparatus, not only belong, as we have seen, to a group of skeletal parts, which become much more developed in Fishes, but that this whole group forms one special division of a skeletal category (the hypaxial), the parts of which may be termed splanchnapophyses? Fig. 193.—Diagram of a transverse Vertical Section of the most developed skeletal segment, according to the conception put forth in this chapter. From above the centrum the epaxial parts, e (neural arches and neural spine), ascend. From each side of the centrum the paraxial system, proceeds out- wards and downwards to coalesce wiih the sternum below. /. tubercular process ; tr, tubercular part of the rib ; tr, its continuation outwards towards the surface of the body ; c , capitular process ; cr, capitular part of the rib ; vr, vertebral rib; sr, sternal rib ; s, sternum ; a, part of the hypaxial system related to the great vessels (hypapophysis) ; b, part of the same rel ted to the alimentary tube (splanchnapophyses) ; c, part related to the heart. 12. The backbone of man, then, is a partial realization of a complex axial skeleton, as thus :— (1) A central axis, terminating anteriorly behind the pitui- tary fossa, and posteriorly at the end of the spine itself, seg- mented antero-posteriorly {i.e. divided into the bodies of the vertebrae), the segments having relation to the nerves coming out from the spinal marrow— central parts. (2) A superior cylinder, also segmented (the neural arches), generally developing articular processes, and sometimes others besides—epaxial parts. '» 1 From a-n-Xayxva, entrails, and u.7r6<pvart£, because they are related (laterally or inferiorly) to the alimentary tube. s