xi.} THE ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 435 while the aperture of the windpipe is situated below—behind the tongue (Fig. 370, g). The teeth have been already noticed in the Seventh Lesson or this course. On each side, the mouth is bounded by a fleshy cheek only slightly distensible. ' 3. In reviewing the mouth as it exists in Vertebrates gene- rally, we find that it may be entirely destitute of lips, as in Birds and Reptiles. These structures are not, however con- fined to man s class, as they exist in some Fishes, e!r. the Carp and Dory. Nevertheless, lips are mainly mammalian structures and may attain a much greater development than m man. Thus, m the Right-Whales the lower lip is an enor- mous structure, rising up on each side and overlapping the sht-hke fissures which separate the numerous baleen plates before described. F The lips may be much more extensible than in man, as in even so nearly an allied form as the Orang. The upper lip may unite with the nose to form an elongated proboscis, as in the Elephant. It may be medianly divided by a vertical separation, as in the Rabbit, the Cat, or the Camel ; and each hp on each side may send a process inwards, behind the incisors, as m the Rat. Lips, by rare exceptions, may be absent even m man's own class, as e.g. in the Ornitho- rnynchus, and they are scarcely developed in the Dolphins [An exceptional condition is seen in the Sturgeon, where an exceedingly small mouth opens on the under surface of the lead, its hps being protrusible less by their own structure :nan by the singularly elongated and relatively lame sus~ Densonal apparatus before noticed. In the Marsipobranchs we find a great circular lip, destined or suction and supported by complex special cartilages ; and mally, m the Lancelet we meet with an altogether exceptional ;tructure, namely, a mouth in the form of a vertical fissure ind provided on each side with a series of long, slender omted and ciliated1 tentacles. ^ ^enaer, Sensitive tentacles, numerous and of small size, may ■order the hp as m the Lamprey; or the lip may send out ix or eight long tentacles, as in the Myxinoids. Higher 'ishes may-as m the Mullets and Siluroids-have fleshy nd sensitive labial barbs, or cirri. y A soft palate is a structure peculiar to man's own class, with Ciliated structures are such as bear cilia, or minute filaments which keen „n a mcessant waving motion. (See « Elementary Physiology/' Lesion VII%J F F 2