[less? ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. 432 be both more complex and that it may be the seat of more activity. The right lymphatic duct may be so developed that there may properly be said to be two thoracic ducts, side by side, as in Birds. The thoracic duct, even in man's own class, may be double, and may bifurcate at a higher or lower situation. Again, the receptaculum may be in the form of a plexus, as in the Kangaroo. The lymphatics of the right side of the head and neck may open directly into the jugular vein, into which vein the thoracic ducts also empty themselves, as in Birds ; and in the same class the lymphatics about the kidney open also into the renal and sacral veins. The thoracic duct may unite with the azygos vein, as, at least sometimes, in the Hog. The lymphatics may open directly into the coccygeal vein, as in Fishes. Lymphatic glands may be absent, as in Reptiles below the Crocodiles. They may be few, and confined to the region of the neck, as in Birds. The lymphatics generally may take on an exaggerated form of that condition which they have in the human brain; that is, they may generally appear as large reservoirs (sinuses) surrounding the true blood-vessels. Such is the case in the lower Vertebrata, especially in Batrachians, where also they may form great sinuses between the skin and the flesh, or between the muscles. The lymphatics may be devoid of valves (which exist only at their junction with the veins), as in the lower classes of the Vertebrate sub-kingdom ; or the valves may be few in number, as in Birds. The walls of the lymphatics, in certain localities, may become muscular and rhythmically contractile. Such pulsatile structures are called lymphatic hear'ts. There may be four of these structures, as in the Frog, where two such organs pump the contained fluid into small veins communicating with the subclavian veins at the shoulder, while two others, placed at the coccyx, send their contents into the crural vein. Two dilated lymphatic structures, answering to the hinder lymphatic hearts of the Frog, may exist, as in some Reptiles, and also in Birds, e.g. the Goose, Ostrich, and others. In these classes, however, they are not rhythmically contrac- tile pulsating structures, though even in Birds they contain striated muscular fibres.