THE CRANIAL SKELETON. III.] 79 land which is called the temporal bone. Above the mastoid jit articulates on each side with one of the two great plate- ibones which roof the skull at the top and sides, and which jare called the parietals. In a new-born child the occipital bone consists of four parts : (i), a median piece in front of the foramen magnum, and which, as contributing to form the base of the skull, is called "basilar;" (2 and 3), two "lateral" pieces, one on each side of the foramen magnum, each supporting a con- dyle, and pierced for the hypoglossal nerve ; (4), a large jmedian plate placed above the foramen magnum, and there- fore called a " supra-occipital? and which shows traces of its origin from more than one centre of ossification. 3. The parietal bone is very large, and is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by the sagittal suture, with the occipital behind by the lambdoidal suture, anteriorly [with the frontal by the coronal suture, and below with the temporal bone by a suture which is called squamous, because the margins of the bones it joins are so bevelled jfY that the temporal lies on the parietal like a scale. The parietal arises from but one centre of ossification. 4. The remaining bone of the skull-roof is the FRONTAL, which, single in the adult, is at birth divided into two parts iDy a line of separation which continues onwards the median separation between the contiguous parietals. The anterior end of this bone is, as it were, bent sharply Dackwards on each side to form two plates which roof the Dony orbits, while between these plates a space is left filled up laturally by the bone forming the summit of the nasal cavity, I md called the ethmoid. Above the margins of each orbit are plight transverse curved prominences, called the superciliary md supra-orbital ridges, while each margin itself runs out into vhat is named the external angular process, at each outer nferior angle of the frontal bone, and joins the bone of the :heek, or malar. Besides the unions just mentioned, the rontal unites with bones to be hereafter described, namely he sphenoid, nasals, lachrymals, and maxillaries. 5. On each side of the skull we find an exceedingly com- )lex bone called the temporal. (See Figs. 83, 89,90, and 91.) Part of it, as already mentioned, articulates with the >arietal by a squamous suture, and it is this part which forms he hinder part of the zygoma and the articular "glenoid" urface for the lower jaw. A portion of bone which bounds the external opening of the