GENERAL VIEW. I.] 9 of man's structure, already noted, in relation to the other forms of life here enumerated. In that man's body is bounded by curved lines and sur- faces, and its structure complex, so that upon a section being jmade it is seen to consist of different parts—it agrees with those of all other animals, as even in Protogenes there are [[granules. Thus it differs from inorganic substances, which may be, as in crystals, bounded by right lines, flat surfaces, land have a homogeneous section—a cut crystal being the same in structure throughout. Only very rarely (as in spathic iron and dolomite) are minerals bounded by curved lines and surfaces. The presence of much water is also a common character of organic living bodies, though man may be called solid in comparison with some animals, more than 99 per cent, of water entering into the total composition of a jelly-fish. As to his chemical composition, man agrees with the whole animal kingdom, and differs from the members of the vege- table kingdom in the less proportion of non-nitrogenous parts which help to compose his body. 12. In so far as man's body is furnished with a distinct head, he agrees not only with other vertebrates (with one exception—the lancelet, or Amphioxus), but also with the higher Mollusca and Annulosa. It is a cha- FlG< 9 _The lancelet racter, however, quite wanting in the ' iAmphioxus). lower sub-kingdoms, and even so well- organized an animal as the oyster is quite destitute of any such part. The presence of limbs is not a universal character even in man's own primary division, the Vertebrata, being wanting, e.g., in serpents ; but the possession of more than four is known only in the Annulosa, where, however, the number may be not merely six, as in insects, but prodigious, as in the millepedes, or thousand-legs. 13. The contrast between dorsal and ventral structures is one very widely shared, but is absent in the lowest animals— which thus remind us of that earliest condition of man before referred to, when his body is a minute spheroidal mass. A dorsal and ventral symmetry may be developed such as man does not exhibit, and this is especially the case in the region of the tail, where (as, e.g., in fishes and amphibians) the structures on the dorsal side of the centre of the back- bone tend to be repeated on its ventral side,