ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. 482 [less. end, as in Proteus j or for their entire length, as in the Spoonbill. Their surface may be marked by convolutions like that of the human cerebrum, as in Sharks and Chelonians. The opening of the ureters may be placed behind the pos- terior termination of the alimentary canal. This is the case in osseous Fishes, and consequently a true bladder must be wanting in them. Each ureter may, however, dilate into a large bladder-like structure, as in Amia, or there may be a single, median vesicle. It is possible for several distinct urinary ducts to open into this vesicle, as in the Stickleback. Every sort of bladder-like structure may be absent, as in Cobitis, and in all Serpents and Birds. A true bladder may, however, be developed in Ichthyopsidans, as in the Batra- chia, where it is placed in front of the termination of the alimentary tube and of that common chamber (the cloaca) into which that tube opens, as well as the bladder or rena' ducts. The right renal organ may be much longer and placed more forward than the left, as in Serpents. The ureters may open, not into the bladder, but into the cloaca, as is the case in the Monotremes, or Ornithodelphia, and in Reptiles. These ducts may terminate (in the cloaca) behind the alimentary canal, or may come rather to the side, and in the Or?iithodelphia rather towards the front of the cloacal chamber. These circumstances may serve to explain the difference between the position of the alimentary and urinary outlets in man's class, and the situation of those apertures in osseous Fishes where the alimentary outlet is anterior. The modi- fication by which the urinary outlet comes to be anterior does not result from any change in the position of the termi- Fig. 407.—Kidney of the Seal nation of the alimentary tube, condition. Sh°wing itS lobulated but in the gradual production forwards, on each side of it, ot the ureters, till they come in non-Ornithodelphous Mammals to end (through the intervention of the bladder and urethra) in a canal opening altogether in front of the rectal aperture. The kidneys may be more symmetrical in position than in man. This is the case in most Birds, where they are