III.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. ii3 The lower turbinals may be noticed next after the ethmoid, being of cognate nature. The simplicity of their structure in man would hardly lead us to anticipate the size and complexity which they may attain in some animals, e.g. in the Badger and the Sheep. They may, on the contrary, abort altogether, as is the case in the probably smell-less Porpoises. In the Elephant they are but rudimentary. In Fishes these bones are quite absent, and in Batrachians are represented by a mere cartilaginous rudiment. In Reptiles they are simple, and quite, or almost entirely, cartilaginous, though with a slight bony outgrowth in the Crocodile. But in Birds they may be represented by two or three insignificant ossifications. 25. As to the maxillary bone, we will consider first the whole of it except that small portion in which the incisor teeth are implanted ; such whole being the bone called " the maxillary bone," or "maxilla," in other vertebrate animals generally. In that it presents an external facial part, an internal nasal part, an inferior palatine part, and a superior orbital part, the maxillary bone of man agrees with that of almost all Mammals. In lower forms, except the Crocodilia, the maxilla is much smaller, and it may be a mere filiform rudiment, as in Silu- roids, or abort altogether, as in the Siren and the Myxinoids. It may, on the contrary, be represented by several dis- tinct and separate bones placed in a series along the jaw, as is the case in the bony Pike (Lepidosteus). Very often its length may greatly exceed its height, as in ! the Great Ant-eater and in Cetaceans. In that the bone bears teeth, we have in man a character which is by no means universal in his class, as e.g. in the Ant-eaters, Whalebone Whales, and the Echidna, the maxilla, like every other bone of the skull, is edentulous. The same is the case in Birds and Tortoises, but in many Fishes (as e.g. the Cod) the maxilla may be edentulous, while nevertheless other bones of the face bear teeth. The facial surface of the bone is occasionally much swollen out, as in the Baboons. Sometimes, as in the Paca, this surface is rough and pitted, while the bone is excavated by a large fossa which opens on the inner surface. Again, the facial surface may be very imperfectly ossified and may pre- sent a reticulated structure, as in the Hares. I