116 ELEMENT A R Y ANA TOMY.% [less. development in man, and only in Mammals and the Crocodile does it approximate to the condition it attains in him. It is a less constant bone than the maxillary, as it is absent in some Mammals, e.g. Centetes and Manis, also in Batrachians, Serpents, and generally in Fishes. It may be merely a delicate spiculum of bone, helping to form the zygoma, as is the case in Birds. In none but man and Apes does the malar develop the orbital plate, and generally in Mammals it does not even meet the frontal outside the orbit; and when the orbit is encircled by bone, the malar may be separated from the frontal by the intervention of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, as in the Horse, Processes may be developed which do not exist in man, as is the case in the Sloths, where there is both an ascending and a descending process, but no process to form a junction with the zygomatic portion of the temporal bone. There may be a considerable perforation in the malar, as in some Lemurs and Insectivora. Sometimes, as in the Porpoise, the malar may be double— the zygomatic portion being a separate ossification from its front part. 27. The nasal bones are more constant elements of the bony skull than are the malar bones, as, except in most Chelonians, they seem to be constantly developed. There may be a pair of them, as in man (and this is the general rule), or there may be but a single median ossification, as is the case in Varanian Lizards. Even in man's class (Mammalia) they may be represented by a single bone through their early anchylosis, as is the case in Centetes, Sftalax, and the Orang. The very extremes of development of these bones are also to be found in the same class, as in the last-mentioned form (the Orang) they all but abort, and in the Porpoises they form small rounded masses, each lying in a concavity on the frontal bone, and not at all roofing over the nasal passages. On the other hand, in the Porcupine they are of enormous size, in fact the largest of the cranial bones. In the Porpoises the two nasals may cease to follow the general rule among Mammals, of joining each other. In Fishes they may lie wide apart. They may be shut out from bounding any part of the anterior nares, as in the Chameleon, where the pre-frontal extends to the maxilla, as before mentioned. 28. The LACHRYMALS may be altogether absent, or may