12 . ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOM Y. [less. descend in the animal scale, but a liver is a structure which long persists, as e.g. in the Mollusca and many Annulosa. 16. In that man's body consists of a double tube—the nervous cylinder being dorsal and the heart ventral—it agrees with the whole of the members of his sub-kingdom, but appears to differ from that of all invertebrates, unless it be certain Ascidians. Recent observations show that the latter simulate in their larval condition the vertebrate structure as regards the existence of a dorsal nervous cylinder, as also as regards a solid partition or simulation of a notochord, which nevertheless is not yet unequivocally manifested, outside the Vertebrate sub-kingdom. A prolongation of the body cavity and even of the digestive cavity into the limbs, strange as it may appear, is far from unknown, as it exists not only in the star-fishes, but also in animals as highly organized as spiders. A direct communication between the alimentary canal and" the true body-cavity is by no means uncommon in lowly orga- nized forms ; e.g., in the sea-anemone that canal terminates freely in the body-cavity. In creatures in which the central part of the nervous system is ventral—that is to say, in all the Annulosa—the anterior part of the alimentary tube not only bends towards but traverses the nervous centres. That bending away from those centres which characterises it in man, characterises it also in all vertebrate animals. Speaking generally, the nervous centres of invertebrates are placed in the oral region, as not only in the Annulosa and Annuloida, but also in the Mollusca and Molluscoida, it is present in that part, unless absent altogether. 17. The possession of a heart and of red blood is common to all vertebrates as well as to man, with one solitary exception : the Amphioxus or lancelet alone having colourless Fig. 13.—Thk Lancelet blood, and a simple cylindrical vessel {Amphioxus). in piaCe 0f a heart. A portal circulation is shared with man by all vertebrates, even the Amphioxus, but no inverte- brate animal is known to be furnished with a blood distribu- tion of the kind. Also the enclosure of the blood in vessels is a cha- racter common to vertebrates, but in Annulose animals (e.g. the lobster) the blood is in part contained in wide cavities termed sinuses. In many forms also (as in the Mollusca) a