ELEMENTARY ANA TO MY. 154 [less Even in man's own class the scapula may become much narrowed, as in the Dog; or extremely so, as in the Shrew, and still more so in the Mole. .) The scapula is entirely osseous in the adult in man, who in this respect agrees with most Mammals and with Birds, but in the majority of lower Vertebrates above Fishes, and in the Ungulata amongst Mammals, the part answering to the posterior border of man's scapula remains permanently, or for a very long time, cartilaginous. In harmony with this condition, we find that the base of the scapula in man long remains a separate epiphysis. This part may be quite distinct, as is the case in the Toad and some Fishes, e.g. the Sturgeon and Raia clavata, where it bears the name .of supra-scapula. In the fact that the scapula is the great bone of the shoulder, man agrees with the rest of his class; but its size may be equalled or surpassed by the part answering to the coracoid process, as in many Birds and Reptiles, or it may be reduced to relative insignificance by the much greater development of the clavicle, as in most Fishes. The scapula (or rather the vertebral portion of it, or supra- scapula), instead of being, as in man, widely separated from its fellow of the opposite side, may be separated from it only by the cartilaginous representative of the spinous processes of the vertebrae, as in Rata clavata; or the two scapulae may overlap the one the other, as in the African toad Dacty- lethra. In the last-mentioned animal the supra-scapula is many times larger than all the rest of the bone. Com- paring the other members of man's class with man, we find that the sub-scapular fossa may be situated (if we define it by the attachment of the subscapulars muscle) not on the inside, as in him, but on the outside of the blade, as is the case in the Echidna. The spine of the scapula is a structure constant in man's class, but it may be very little developed, as in the Mole ; or it may be easily overlooked, inasmuch as it forms the actual anterior (in man the upper) border of the scapula in the Monotremes. In these Monotremes its direction is so changed that it lies on one and the same plane with the blade of the scapula ; the supra-spinatus portion of the blade being next the ribs, and the infra-spinatus fossa and sub- scapular fossa together forming its actual outer surface, the axillary margin (which ordinarily separates those two latter fossae) aborting. The spine may be in close juxtaposition to