SKELETON OF LOWER LLMB. 207 v.] as in the Seals. It may be, on the contrary, enormously pro- duced, as in the Horse. It may have appended to it an elongated ossification which in parts enters upon the tendo Achillis, as in Bats, and this may be of great breadth as well as length, as in Noctilio leporinus. The end of the os calcis is broad, bifid, and incurved in the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna. In that man's ankle-joint is situated between the leg-bones and the tarsus, it agrees with the same part not only in the whole of his own class, but also in Batrachians. It may be, however, that the joint by which the foot moves upon the leg is not so situated. This is the case in all Birds, where motion takes place not between the tarsus and the tibia, but between the proximal and the distal parts of the tarsus, the ankle-joint being in them an inter-tarsal one, with the proximal part of the tarsus anchylosed to the tibia, and its distal part to the metatarsus. A similar joint exists in Crocodiles, though the proxi- mal part of the tarsus is firmly attached to the leg-bones but by fibrous tissue, and not by anchylosis. Much more mobility than obtains in man may exist even in Mammals, between the proximal and distal parts of the tarsus, as in the Orang, and especially in Galago. The leg, instead of being set on the foot vertically, as in man, may be applied obliquely, as e.g. in the Orang and Potto. There was, doubtless, in the Ichthyosaurus a limitation of motion between the bones of the hind limb, similar to that which we find in the existing Cetacea between the bones of the fore limbs. The naviculare, or scaphoid, may anchylose with one of the distal row of tarsal bones, as in the Ox and Deer, where it unites with the cuboid. Instead of being situate as in man, it may be central and distinct, as in Salamandra and other Tailed-Batrachians, and as in Chelydra and Chameleo. It may be very short and very wide transversely, as in the Horse. Its tuberosity may be much produced, as in Hylobates. The articular surfaces for the cuneiforme may be remarkably convex, as in Loris. The naviculare may be greatly produced, as is the case in Galago and Tarsius. 18. The bones OF THE SECOND ROW are far less con- stant and never so large and .conspicuous as are those of the