GENERAL VIEW. 11 jrumana has inexactly been applied to the apes, the foot having so close a superficial resemblance to the hand. Parts which answer to each other in serial symmetry are termed "' homotypes." An amount of serial symmetry, however, far beyond any- thing which man presents is developed in the sub-kingdom Annulosa, as we may see in such creatures as the lobster. Not only is there in such animals an obvious serial repeti- tion in similar segments- and similarly formed limbs, but a little study shows that parts superficially unlike (as the feelers, or antennae, jaws, claws, legs, and swimmerets) are essentially similar structures, diversely modified to meet diverse requirements.. The maximum of serial repetition, however,, is found in the hundred-legs and thousand-legs and other Annulosa, in which the num- ber of body segments is at its maximum. 14. The possession of a solid in- ternal frame-WOrk to which muscles Fig. 12.—A. Centipede, or are attached is a character man Hu ndred-legs (Scolopendra). shares with all the members of the Vertebrate sub-kingdom; but quite other conditions may obtain and indeed numerically preponderate, as in the vast group of Annulose animals, where the hard parts are external, and the muscles which move them are within them and attached to. their inner surfaces, as familiarly known to us in the lobster. 15. A permanent mouth may seem to many to be an organ necessary to every animal. This, however, is not the case, as animals so complexly organized as the tapeworm are alto- gether destitute of any such structure and feed by absorption only. Even certain minute creatures which swim freely about to seek their food may yet have no permanent mouths, but (as, e.g., Amoeba and Protogenes) when in contact with their food may produce a temporary perforation in the sur- face of their own body in which they engulph their food, the body-wall closing up again over it. It becomes, then, hardly necessary to say that an alimen- tary tube is not a constant structure, still less any inferior outlet; for many animals, e.g. the lamp-shell (Terebrahda), though possessing an intestine, are nevertheless aproctous.1 The various organs which aid digestion disappear as we 1 From a, not, and ttpwktoc;, anus.