[less. 324 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. the occiput to the tail end, but also possesses a ventral muscular mass (extending forwards as far as the middle of the thorax), which mass is divisible from above downwards into two antero-posteriorly extended masses—together con- stituting, as it were, a ventral (and here sub-vertebral) re- flection of the erector spinas. The same appearance occurs in some Reptiles and in Tailed-Batrachians, where the ventral muscles of the tail repeat below, the dorsal masses above. But these Batrachian caudal muscles are not sub-vertebral— not the continuation backwards of sub-vertebral ones of the trunk, but direct continuations backwards of the abdominal muscles, as is also the case in most Fishes. Muscles of the taih (even in man's own order) may be very extensive, and Fig. 292.—Muscles of Right Half of a Transverse Section of the Tail of Igna?ia, showing the separation of the caudal muscular cones from the vertebrae by the intrusion above of a supra-caudal mass from the trunk, and by the intrusion below of the femoro-caudal. A, dorsal half of caudal cones ; B, ventral half of caudal cones ; SC, supra-caudal ; FC, femoro-caudal. caudal muscles may have attachments such as are indicated by their names—pubococcygeus, ilio-coccygcus, sacro-coccygeus, and ischio-coccygeus respectively. Powerful muscles and complex arrangements of tendons are especially developed in forms which, like the Spider- Monkey, are capable of suspending the entire body by the grasping action of the end of the tail. 20. The MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY, as might be expected, often disappear in those forms in which an upper extremity is wanting. Just, however, as we found in the skeleton that we might have bones of the shoulder girdle without any of those of the arm, so we may have certain of the muscles in question attached to that shoulder girdle though the actual extremity be wanting. Such is the case in some Reptiles, e.g. in A?i^uis fragilis. The muscles may be greatly reduced in size where there is little variety of motion, as in Birds and Cetaceans. No profitable compari