ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [LESS, end they are mostly long and pointed, and are called conical and filiform papillae. Scattered over the middle of the tongue are very red papillae, called fungiform, because each is narrower at its root than at its upper part. The third kind are the circumvallate papillae—from eight to fifteen in number—arranged at the back of the tongue so as to form the letter V, with the point of the V directed towards the throat. Each of these is shaped like an inverted cone, of which the apex is attached to the bottom of a cup-shaped cavity, so that the papilla is surrounded by a circular furrow. Man's tongue contains no osseous or cartilaginous' struc- ture. Its shape, degree of mobility, and extensibility are too familiar to require notice. 7. The tongue in Vertebrates generally presents a great variety as to form and function, relative size, and denseness of structure. It may be completely absent, as^. in the Siluroids, where even the glosso-hyal bone is absent. It may, as in most Fishes, be almost destitute of muscular tissue, and very slightly mobile, merely investing a glosso-hyal bone, and often being furnished with teeth. The tongue may be apparently absent in Batrachians, as in Pipa; or even in Reptiles, as in the Crocodile. It may be long, pointed, and coated with a horny sheath, with recurved processes towards the apex, as in the Woodpecker. It may be fixed in front and free behind—■ being protruded by eversion—as in the Frog. It may be very extensible, thickened and somewhat cup-shaped at the end, as in the Chameleon. It may be exceedingly mobile and ex- Fi373.—Head of the tensible, with its apex deeply cleft, as Frog Phyllomedusa, in Serpents ttSt*X*& . In man's own class the tongue may tenorly. likewise only form the floor of the mouth, as in the Dolphin. It may, as in the Dog and Mole, have on its under surface a longitudinal fusiform, rather dense body, attached to the rest by cellular tissue, and called the worm, or lytta. The conical papillae may be horny, and shaped like small claws, as in the Cat. Fungiform papillae may be absent, as in the Horse and Manatee. There may be but two circumvallate papillae, as