THE CRAXIAL SKELETOX. II.] Essentially palatal structures, namely the pterygoid bones, n forms below the mammalian class, generally connect the Dalatine bones with the quadrate bone which suspends the ower jaw. The bony palate may be enriched by the addition )f a bone not known in Mammals (the os transversum), as is he case in Reptiles; or of two extra bones (the ecto-pterygoid ind the ento-pterygoid); besides a third peculiar ossification' the meta-pterygoid), as in bony Fishes. (2) The middle, or guttural part, is a noteworthy one, both >n account of the physiological importance of the structures yhich modify its composition, and also on account of the -alue which its various modifications possess for the purposes j>f zoological classification. Its condition in man is exceptional, both as regards the iarge proportion it bears to the anterior part of the basis iranii, and also as regards its small elongation antero-pos- leriorly as compared with its breadth. 1 The variations presented as regards the mastoid and sty- bid processes, the carotid foramina, alisphenoidal canals (for he external carotid arteries), &c, have been already noticed p speaking of the separate cranial bones, and need not here le repeated. Sometimes, as in the Crocodile and Great Ant-eater, this uttural part of the basis cranii is nearly concealed by the I nmense extension of the palate. At other times, as in the lorse, it is much exposed by the smallness of the backward prolongation of the bony palate. \ The pterygoid fossae are found only in man's class, and by \ o means always in it. Generally, as in the Dog, the pterygoid ones are present, but the descending external pterygoid trocess is absent; so that the pterygoid fossae want seemingly lieir outer walls. The pterygoids may be swollen out into bullate expansions, 3 in the Mole and Sloths. j Very often, especially in the smaller Mammals, the part nswering more or less to the petrous part of the temporal ind to the meatus auditorius externus may be, as it were, lown up into vesicular air-containing prominences, termed iditory bullae. ■ The Eustachian tubes may unite to open into the mouth y a median foramen, as in Birds, or may be utterly absent, s in Fishes. (3) The posterior part of the inferior region of man's skull 1 very exceptionally developed, owing to the advanced situa- K 2