ELEMENTARY ANA TOMY, [less. 372 little behind this aperture is the cut edge of a bundle of transverse fibres which form what is called the soft (or middle) commissure. The third ventricle is bounded above by a delicate membrane, the velum interpositurn, which thickens behind and forms a small prominence which projects back- wards and is called the pineal glandsreminding us of the pituitary body below. The third ventricle is bounded inferiorly by the corpora mammillaria and crura cerebri (the cut sur- faces of which are visible in Fig. 327 just above the pons Varolii), and by the infundibulum, into which it extends. The cavity just described, the third ventricle, is not shut in at its hinder end below, but continues on as a very narrow passage (the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum), bounded in front by the crura cerebri and behind by a layer of nervous matter continuous with the pineal gland, and exhibiting the cut surface of a small transverse cord (the posterior co?n?nis- sure), and also two prominences in section—part of the corpora quadrigemina. A little lower down, this passage expands into a second cavity (the fourth ventricle), bounded in front by the medulla oblongata and behind by the cere- bellum above, and below the cerebellum by an exceedingly delicate layer of nervous tissue. The cerebellum in section shows singular radiating tree- like ramifications of nervous substance (grey and white), due to infoldings of the surface of the organ, and called the arbor vitce. Thus the extension backwards of the corpus callosum and cerebrum altogether overlaps a certain portion of the brain, namely, the pineal gland and parts adjacent. When these are exposed by a special section the corpora quadri- gemina are seen to consist of two pairs of small prominences (but little different in size) placed side by side immediately behind the pineal gland. The anterior pair are called the nates, the posterior pair the testes. They are solid structures. 7. Other sections (Figs. 328 and 329) are necessary to make clear other matters. Thus, the forame?i of Motiro is the entrance to a cavity which is placed in the cerebral hemi- sphere of the same side, these two cavities constituting the first and second (or two lateral) ventricles. The so-called foramen of Monro is, in fact, a Y-shaped passage. It is single below, where it communicates with the third ventricle, but divides above into two branches, one to each lateral ventricle. Each lateral ventricle is tri-radiate and said to have three