GENERAL VIEW. I,] 5 The mouth is bounded by jaws which open vertically, the aperture itself being extended transversely. 7. Such being the more significant and general characters of adult man, certain processes and changes of growth may be referred to by which that condition is arrived at. A minute rounded, almost structureless mass is the earliest condition of the body. The first indication of the future being, which shows itself in that rounded mass, is given by a longitudinal groove mark- ing the place of the spinal marrow and brain. Beneath this a similarly longitudinal, cellular rod appears, called the notochord,1 or chorda dorsalis, marking the place of the future front part of the backbone. In process of time the lower jaw appears as a solid rod coming down on each side from the head, and a series of similar structures, called " visceral arches" make their appear- ance on each side, also coming down from the head like the lower jaw, and placed one after the other behind (or, if the body is vertically placed, beneath) that jaw, and forming later the tongue-bone, &c. These arches are separated by temporary apertures termed "visceral clefts" 8. The world is inhabited by a vast animal population, of kinds so numerous and diverse that the study of them would be a task of hopeless difficulty were they not capable of con- venient classification. Fortunately they can be and have been divided and arranged, according to their resemblances in form and struc- ture, into a series of more and more subordinate groups. The sum total of animals is spoken of as a kingdom—the Animal Kingdom—in contrast with and distinction from the Vegetable and Mineral Kingdoms. The Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms taken together con- stitute the " organic world/' and each member of it is an " organism." The Animal Kingdom is made up of certain great primary groups, each of which is termed a sub-kingdom (or sometimes a division). Each sub-kingdom is made up of and is divisible into certain other subordinate (yet still great) groups, each of which is called a class. Each class is composed of a certain number of more sub- ordinate divisions, each of which is termed an order. 1 yiwroc, back, and \opdn, chord.