THE SPINAL SKELETON. 39 II.] The division of the vertebrae into true and false is seen to be a very arbitrary one when we extend our view, as all are "true" in Serpents, and those which are "false" in man are true even in some members of his own class, e.g. the Cetaceans. On the other hand, many vertebrae which are reckoned to be " true " in him are " false " in other animals. Thus, in Birds the process of anchylosis invades the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae. In Tortoises all the trunk vertebrae are fused, and therefore " false," while in the Glyptodon none of the vertebrae except the coccygeal can be said to be " true " ones. Again, vertebrae may be more thoroughly u false " than even in man, as in the sacrum of the Rhea (or American Ostrich), where between the hip-bones they abort, and are represented only by a long narrow strip of bone. Distinct vertebrae are developed both pre-axially and post-axially to this strip. " Degradation " is a constant character of the last vertebrae in all classes of Vertebrates. 22. As to vertebra in general, the neural arch is the constant character of a vertebra—persisting even where {e.g. in Lepidosiren) the bodies are not formed. Two neural arches may correspond to one centrum, as in some Elasmobranchs ; and merely cartilaginous neural arches may exist, as in the Sturgeon. The arch may present processes which are not developed in man. The two laminae may (as on the Axolotl) fail to meet together on the dorsal aspect. The centrum, or body, may have its opposite surfaces strongly convex or concave, contiguous vertebrae uniting by a ball and socket joint, instead of being flat or nearly so, as in man. The ball may be post-axial in each vertebral body, a struc- ture termed procaelous,1 and found e.g. in existing crocodiles ; or the ball may be pre-axial, which condition is called opis- thoccelous? and is more rare, but is found e.g. in the land Salamander, and even in man's own class, as in the cervical vertebrae of the Ruminants. The vertebrae may have both surfaces hollow, a structure called amphiccelous ;3 or bi-concave, a condition found in most Fishes, and even some Reptiles, as the Geckoes. The osseous bodies may be reduced to mere rings encircling the 1 From 7rp6, beforehand ko7Xo£, hollow. 2 From oTriatic, behind, and koiXoq. 3 From d/JiQi, both, and noiXog.