4 Go ELEMEXTAR Y AX A TOMY. [less. colon to the stomach and duodenum, thus early initiated, persists with great constancy. Each of the two ends of the alimentary canal becomes perforated by means of a depres- sion which appears on its surface, and which deepens till it opens into the nascent alimentary canal. The large intestine is at first of less capacity than the small, and the vermiform appendix is at first as wide as the caecum. Immediately below the dilatation for the stomach a very small offshoot grows out from the alimentary canal, and around this a soft mass of tissue is developed—the future liver. The transitions which take place with regard to the blood-vessels in connexion with this part have been already- described in Lesson X. The part of the alimentary canal which is pre-axial to the stomach becomes, of course, the oesophagus. It also gives off diverticula, but as these (after- wards the lungs) are not directly related to the alimentary- system, they will be noticed in the succeeding and last Lesson. 18. Thus a certain rough and general approximation to the earlier conditions of the digestive system found in man manifestly persists in lower Vertebrata ; in some Fishes the alimentary canal being, as we have seen, of nearly uniform width throughout its course, without even a dilatation to form ; a distinct stomach. The liver in its earliest condition recalls its | permanent form in Amphioxus. As we ascend through the • Vertebrate series, we find in the highest class a greater com- ; plication of definite, distinct, and mutually related parts, although the ascent is by no means regular. 'Not in man do j we find the most complex stomach, but in the Sheep. Not § in him is the caecum at its maximum, but in the Indris and|!( some others before mentioned. Valvulae conniventes, indeed,]!] are a marked character of the small intestine of man, but [ they are yet more marked in the Ornithorhynchus. The liver', may be much more complex than in him, but it may also bek more simple even in his own class. The tongue may be|s much longer and more mobile ; it may also be much shorter j, and less mobile, or may abort altogether. Salivary glands a| may be completely absent ; they may, on the contrary, attain Uj a size and complexity to which those of man are far from at- ^ taining. The alimentary system, then, hardly agrees with thcfr, nervous system in presenting marked and readily appreciableV] characters, by which man's organization exhibits an evident and unmistakable superiority, though a certain superiority^ probably exists in the reciprocal co-ordination of its parts.