64 [less. ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. A thorax is not a constant character of Vertebrates, for it cannot be said to exist in those Batrachians which have no ribs, neither in true Serpents nor in Fishes, both these groups of animals being utterly destitute of a sternum. 34. The sternum of man represents a part constantly pre- sent in limbed Vertebrates above Fishes, except Chelonians, as also in some forms in which the limbs are absent. Its human condition, however, of serving as a ventral abutment to ribs, though general, is not constant, as not only may ribs exist without a sternum—as in Fishes and Serpents—but a sternum may exist without ribs, or without forming any cartilaginous or osseous connexion with ribs, as in the class Batrachia. The sternum of man, considered as a whole, is neither so broad nor so narrow as in some other forms, and its depth from the surface inwards is much less than may obtain. Thus it is broader in proportion to its length in most oviparous animals (from Birds to Batrachians), also in some Mammals, as the Whales, and even in the Siamang Gibbon, belonging to man's own order. In most members of man's own order, however, and in very many of his class, it is, as in the Dog, and in some Reptiles (as the Crocodile and Chameleon), much more narrow in proportion to its length. The above exception as to Chelonians not having a ster- num may well excite surprise, for Tortoises and Turtles have not only well-developed limbs, but it has been commonly supposed that part of their " shell," the great ventral shield (or plastron), is one great sternum, or at least a sternum with dermal ossifications added. It appears, however, that this great complex plate does not really include a sternum. That threefold division of the sternum which exists in man is normal in his class. In Birds and Reptiles it also exists, though more obscured and difficult to define. Even in Mammals, however, this threefold division is not universal, as {e.g. in the Greenland Whale) only the manu- brium may exist, the rest of the sternum aborting ; while in the Dugong we have a xiphisternum (the representative of the xiphoid process of man), together with a manubrium, but no ossified representative of the middle part of the sternum. In Tailed-Batrachians and the Slow-worm (Angnis) we have a simple sternum which cannot be said with certainty to re- present any one of the three divisions ; while in many Frogs