314 ELEMENTAR V ANA TOMY. [less. cornua being so much greater than in the human structure. It may be attached above to the par-occipital process, as in the Horse, or to the posterior part of the lower jaw, as in some Birds, e.g. the Fieldfare. The stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus present few dif- ferences in Mammals, except that the former may take origin from the paramastoid process (as in Hyrax), or low down on the anterior cornu, as in Ruminants. The mylo-hyoid even in Mammals may be quite discon- nected with the hyoid, and it may be exceedingly elongated and divided into several antero-posteriorly successive parts, as in the Great Ant-eater. The hindmost part may, even in man's class, take origin from the sides of the occiput, as in the Echidna. It may be very large, as in Menopoma (Fig. 282). The genio-hyoids are very constant, existing down to Fishes. They may be inserted into the cornua (not the body) of the hyoid, as in Birds and Fishes, or into fascia bounding the body of the hyoid beneath, as in Menofto?na, or into the uro-hyal, as in Menobranchus. The hyo-glossus of man, arising as it does from three parts, might be expected to present (as is the case) variations in other animals in accordance with the varying development of its three points of origin, namely, the body, and the lesser and greater cornua respectively of the os-hyoides. By a yet further modification the hyo-glossus may be de- tached from the hyoid and blended with a sterno-hyoid also detached from the hyoid, so that we have an enormously long muscle entering into the substance of the tongue, but taking origin as far back as the xiphoid cartilage. Such is the case in the Great Ant-eater, where the hyo-glossi are reinforced by small muscles springing from the anterior cornua. Both lateral and median muscles exist in most Birds, and lateral muscles {i.e. from the cornua to the tongue) exist in Reptiles and the Frog, and even in some Fishes, all but tongueless as are the last-named animals. The genio-glossns may take origin from the sides of the mandibular rami instead of from the symphysis, as in Ser- pents, or it may have two origins (one from the symphysis and one from the side of the mandible), as in the Great Ant-eater. This muscle may be wanting altogether, as in Fishes, and even amongst Birds—while nevertheless it exists not only in Reptiles but also in Batrachians {e.g. the Frog, Salamandra, and Menobranchus).