ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOM Y. [LESS. 196 animals, only the largest beasts forming an exception in this respect. As the longest bone of the leg {i.e. in the proportion in which it exceeds the length of the tibia) the femur of man is dis-. tinguished from that of all Birds, and from that of almost all other Mammals except of those Cetaceans which have a rudi- mentary femur and a still more rudimentary tibia. Yet oc- casionally (as e.g. in the Great Ant-eater and certain Apes) the femur notably exceeds the tibia in length. In many Reptiles and Tailed-Batra- chians, however, the femur exceeds the tibia as much as or more than in man, and that not only in forms like Boa, where both bones are, though in differ- ent degrees, rudimentary, but also where Fig. 168.—Skeleton of . , & r ? , , , JJ Rudimentarv Pelvic both are fairly developed. Limb of Liaiis. p0r all that the several parts of the (After Fiirbringer.) femur may exhibit different degrees of /: femur; il, ilium ; pi, development in different animals, yet on pubo-ischium; t, tibia. the wh0le it is a substantially constant bone as to its form and structure ; more so even than is the case with the humerus, as the femur never attains the great relative length which the humerus attains in the Bats, nor is it ever reduced to the shortness and thickness which that part presents in the Mole. In the proportion which it bears to the hind limb as a whole, the femur of man is exceptionally developed, though not quite so much so as in many Reptiles and Tailed-Batra- chians. Its proportion, however, may become almost insig- nificant, even in Mammals, as in the Seals. It is in these aquatic Carnivora, and in the extinct Ichthyosaurus, that the femur is relatively at its shortest. It is a short bone (when compared with the leg and foot) in the Ruminants and Horse family. The curvature which the shaft presents in man may be exaggerated, as in Tortoises, while the bone may almost be:ome straight, as in the Lemurs, Carnivora, Bats, &c. The development of its neck is a character which the femur of man by no means shares with that of all Vertebrates; on the contrary, the neck of the bone is most exceptionally developed in him. In the majority of cases (as e.g. in Birds) there can hardly be said to be any neck, and in many forms, e.g. the Rhinoceros, there is none whatever.