THE CRANIAL SKELETON, II.] Si vhich is at birth separate from a little cylindrical piece of jone which afterwards forms its root, and which is called he tympano-hyaL1 Besides these three elements, three other distinct ossifica- ions extend and coalesce to form the petrous and mastoid Portions of the temporal bone, and are distinguished by their liverse relations to parts of the internal organ of hearing. Continuing our enumeration, we have (4) an ossification which rives rise to the upper part of the petrous portion (that which s visible on the inside of the skull) and to part of the mastoid. t forms the upper margin of what will hereafter be noticed is the fenestra ovalis2 of the internal ear, and is especially elated to the anterior vertical semicircular canal. It is called he pro-otic? (5) One which gives rise to the lower part of he petrous portion (that which is visible on the base of the kull) and forms the carotid canal. It also forms the lower bart of the fenestra ovalis, and surrounds entirely what is ermed the fenestra rotunda. It is called the opistkotic* 6) One which gives rise to the mastoid process, and which 5 developed upon the posterior part, and what we shall here- fter know as the posterior vertical semicircular canal of the nternal ear. It is called the epioticJf The mastoid process 5 not prominent at birth. 6. The SPHENOID 6 is a very complex bone, and has been ikened to a creature with a small body, two pairs of wings, nd two legs. The central part, or body (which is anchylosed with the asilar part of the occipital), has on its upper surface a eepish pit, called the sella turcica ox pituitary fossa, because [ receives the pituitary body of the brain. It is bounded ehind by a vertical plate, termed "clinoid,"7 from the ummit of which projects on each side a " clinoid process." From each side of the body there projects upwards, out- wards, and forwards a large more or less triangular plate, ■ailed the greater ala, or wing of the sphenoid, which also lends a lamellar process downwards. At the root of the ||ing are three holes. The innermost and smallest—the idian—transmits the vidian nerve. Above and external to 1 Discovered and named by Professor Flower (" Osteology," p. 123}. Every pne connected with the tongue-bone, or hyoid, has the term hyal as a part of 6 name. . 2 It has also been noticed in the Eighth Lesson of "Elementary Physiology. 3 ripo, before, and olg, ojtoc, the ear. 4 "O7r<o-tfe, behind. 5 ' Eirl, above. 6 So called from (r<prjv, a wedge, and ei3oc, like. 7 From nXlvti, a bed. G