61 II.] THE SPINAL SKELETON. In lower forms, e.g. Tailed-Batrachians and Fishes, the inferior (hypapophysial) arches sometimes develop articular processes or parts simulating such. 31. The beautiful sigmoid curvature of the vertebral COLUMN of man (Fig. 38) is, in its perfection, absolutely pecu- liar to him, though some of the Apes (not the highest, but the Baboons—Cynocephali) approximate to him in this respect. This exceptional condition of structure in man is related to his exceptional (erect) attitude. As exceptional a curvature, though a very different one, may exist. This is shown by Bats, where the hinder part of the spine bends sharply forwards as a quadrant, bringing the pelvis very much in front. The gradual thickening of the spinal axis from its cranial end downwards to the sacrum, is a condition which obtains generally in Vertebrates, except Fishes, Bats, and those extinct flying Saurians the Pterodactyles, in which that axis gradually decreases in bulk tailwards. The post-axial projection of the neural spines, especially those of the posterior cervical and anterior dorsal vertebrae, is considerably less in man than in most animals of his class, though considerably greater than in some—e.g. the Hedgehog. On the other hand, neural spines attain in many Fishes {e.g. the Sole, Turbot, &c.) a prolongation compared with the size of the spinal axis vastly exceeding anything to be found even in the marine (Cetacean) members of the class to which man belongs. 32. The mode of OSSIFICATION of the vertebrae of man agrees with that which exists generally in his class, most of the vertebrae ossifying from one point in the body and one other point in each neural arch—besides from the epiphyses, where these exist. The line of junction of the lateral (neural) pieces with the central piece is termed the neuro-central suture, and in most Mammals, as in man, it is so disposed that each lateral piece contributes to form a portion of the body. This is not, how- ever, universally the case, as in the Whale order the suture is placed more dorsally, so that the central ossification forms not only all the centrum, but also more or less of each lateral piece. Just as in man, so in other members of his class, separate ossifications often indicate costal elements in the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions. The fact, however, of a part being ossified by the extension