SKELETON OF LOWER LIMB. from its fellow of the opposite side ventrally, is a condition which may occur, as eg. in the very imperfectly developed os innominatum of Cetaceans and Sirenia, and certain Reptiles, eg. the Boa Constrictor. In that the os innominatum joins the backbone by one attachment only (namely, that of the ilium), man agrees with the great majority of Vertebrates. But even in some of his own class (as in the Armadillos, some other Edentates, and some Bats) a second, ischiatic, bony attachment may be formed, answering to what would result from an ossification of the great sacro-sciatic ligament in us. As has been said, the form of man's os innominatum is absolutely peculiar. Still he shares the normal characters of his class and of Vertebrates generally, in that the inferior bony elements on each side are rather short and mainly Fig. 161.—Right Side of Pelvis of a Bird. a, acetabulum ; c, caudal vertebrae ; d1 —d3, three dorsal vertebrae ; z7, ilium ; w, great foiamen caused by the post-axial union of the ilium and ischium ; is, ischium ; o, very elongated obturator foramen ; pubis. directed ventrally. These elements may, however, be very much elongated and mainly directed pos^axially (z>. back- wards, if the body is placed horizontally), as in Birds. The ventral elements may be single, as in Batrachians, and if double, as in man, they may apparently consist of parts which do not correspond with the two elements existing in him and other Mammals : such a diversity of structure seems to exist in Reptiles. In so far as the ilium of man is a broad flat bone, it differs from that of Mammals generally, and only agrees with certain exceptional forms, such as the Elephant, Sloth, and Gorilla. The extent of the ilium in the line of the backbone may be very much greater than in man, as is the case in Birds, where it is prolonged both pre- and post-axially to a very considerable extent, thus connecting in one whole many vertebras. It is probably the pre-axial part of the bird's ilium which corre- sponds with that of man and of Mammals, while its post- axial part seems to correspond with the ilium of Reptiles.