THE SPIXAL SKELETOX. II.] we should have a complete outline model, as it were, of the entire human frame. Portions of this hbrous tissue which connect adjacent bones and cartilages become very strong, and constitute the u liga- ments " of the joints of the solid skeleton. 2. The skeleton as a whole is naturally divisible into two parts, to be separately treated of. (a) The external, peripheral skeleton, often called the EXO- SKELETOX,1 —the skin and its appendages. (d) The internal, central skeleton, often termed the ENDO SKELETOX.2 The external skeleton will be considered afterwards. First in order is the skeleton commonly so called, i.e. the internal skeleton. 3. The EXDOSKELETOX of man is composed of numerous bones, together with cartilages and fibrous structures. The number and nature of the solid parts vary with age. In the earlier stages of existence there are no bones at all, and the process of bone-formation (or ossification) having once begun, goes on till the period of adult maturity is completed, and indeed, to a less extent, throughout the whole of life. Thus it happens that parts which are membranous in the baby or cartilaginous in the youth, become bony in the grown man; and a continuation of the same process tends to fuse together more and more, bones which at their first appearance were separate and distinct. Indeed, besides the coalescence of distinct bones, another fusion of bony structures occurs. This is due to the fact that the ends, or projecting portions, of what are essentially and ultimately one bone, arise as separate ossifications, which are termed epiphyses,3 Thus the ends of the long bones of the limbs are at first separate bones from the main part (or shaft) of each long bone, and do not become continuous with the shaft till near man's maturity. The hard parts of the internal skeleton being those which as a framework support the body, form points of attachment for the muscles which move it ; the muscles employing the different bones like so many levers, or fulcra, as the case may be. 4. The great majority of the bones are thus intended to move one upon another, and the contiguous surfaces of such movable bones form THE "JOINTS." From !£m, without 2 From h.'vm, within. 3 From tjr<, upon, and Qucu,, to grow.