253 vii.] THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. Physiology, but it should here be noted that not only do the permanent canine teeth come into place before the wisdom teeth, but also even before the second molar. Moreover, the last milk molar is shed before the epiphyses of the long bones are united to their shafts, and before the bones of the limb girdles have coalesced. All the teeth of the permanent set are thus provided with temporary or deciduous predecessors, except the last three molars of each jaw. It is on account of this absence of vertical predecessors that the three hindmost teeth on each side of each jaw are called "true molars." In extending our view to other animals we shall see that true molars must be defined to be "teeth situated behind the hindmost tooth having a vertical predecessor." 19. The upper incisors are implanted in what we have seen to be a distinct bone (the premaxilla) from that in which the other teeth of man's upper jaw are implanted, while the canine is the foremost tooth implanted in the true maxillary bone. In surveying these parts in other animals we shall see that the definition of an upper incisor is " a tooth im- planted in the premaxilla ; " of an upper canine, " the fore- most tooth of the maxilla, provided it be not at a considerable distance from the anterior end of that bone." The lower canine must be| defined as " the tooth which bites in front of the upper canine," and the lower incisors as " teeth placed in front of or on a line with the lower canine, or, if this is absent, teeth corresponding with the upper incisors." The bicuspid molars of man (not having always two cusps in other animals) are, in zootomy, termed premolars, because they are placed in front of the true molars. An extended view reveals facts which compel us to give to premolars generally the following somewhat cumbrous defi- nition : " teeth behind the place of the canines and in front of the true molars, or, if the latter are absent, teeth behind the place of the canines and having vertical predecessors, or in front of molar teeth which have such predecessors." 20. Such being the dentition (i.e. tooth-furniture) of man, it may be conveniently expressed by the following SYMBOLS :— If, C{, P M I, M I, for the permanent dentition. I § means " two incisors, above and below, on each side of the jaws ;" C{ means similarly one canine in each case ; P M § means " two premolars on each side of each jaw ; " and M J means "three true molars, both above and below, on each side." Similarly the symbols D I f, D C j, DM f, for the