[less. i64 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. ever, exceed that of all the rest of the limb put together, as in the Apteryx. It may also exceed the length of the whole body, as in the Pelican ; while a few Birds, e.g. the Martins, have it remarkably short. In its being cylindrical in shape man's humerus is normal, but it may be almost as broad as long, as in the Mole and some Cetacea. The head of the hu- merus is generally less spheroidal than in man, with high projecting processes (the tuberosities), as in the Carnivora, e.g. the Dog. It may have the form of a transversely extended articular ridge, as W^S-ic in Birds. The shaft of the bone may be twisted like the letter S, as in the Tortoises, but Fig. 140.—Right Hu- that twist of the shaft which we find in merus of a Mole. man jg peculjar to hjm and t0 the high. % hXea™VTnte?ili est Apes' though tliere is something like condyle; t\ capitel- it in Birds. ium. The greater (radial) and lesser (ulnar) tuberosities are very constant structures, one or both appearing down to the lowest Batrachians. They may project much more than in man (as e.g., amongst many others, in the Dog and Sheep), or the two may be fused into one, thus obliterating altogether the bicipital groove, as is the case in the Cetacea ; or they may project much and so sharply as to make that groove a very deep one, as in the Turtle. The so-called " lesser " tuberosity may be as large as the "greater" one, or even come to exceed it in size, as in the Two-toed Sloth, the Bat Pteropus, and the Lizard Urotnastix* Beneath the lesser tuberosity a deep cavity may exist, as in Birds : this is to allow air to enter the air-cavity within the bone, many bones in many Birds being thus filled with air instead of marrow. The rough surface for the deltoid is in man's humerus but a faint indication of what may in other forms, e.g. the Seal, Mole, Beaver, &c., be a very prominent ridge. The lower end of the bone may be either more expanded relatively than in man, or less so. Thus, e.g., the condyles may be very greatly produced, as in the Mole, Armadillos, and Echidna, or they may be quite rudimentary, as in the Deer and Hare. Very often a foramen may exist above the internal con-