HI.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 123 spines of the anterior (most pre-axial) vertebrae by a very strong ligament which prevents the mouth from being widely opened. This is the case in the Eft Des7nognathus. 32. That very subordinate bone of the human skeleton, the OS hyoides, or tongue-bone, is but a feeble rudiment of skeletal structures of great size and functional importance in the lower Vertebrates. Even less than the temporal bone is it capable of revealing its true nature when studied in man alone. Small, however, and subordinate as is the os hyoides in him, it may yet be more rudimentary still. Thus osseous parts may be entirely absent, and only represented by two delicate cartilages, as is the case in Serpents. Throughout man's class we find a substantially similar con- dition to that which exists in him. That is, we find a body and a pair of cornua, and almost always a pair of cornicula, but the proportions of these parts one to another, and their degree of segmentation, vary. Fig. hi.—Hyoid of a Flying Fox (Pterofius), showing the much greater length of the cornicula than of the cornua. bh, body of the hyoid ; sh, corniculum divided into three segn.ents—stylo-hyal, epi-hyal, and cerato-hyal; th, the cornua of the os hyoides, or thyro-hyal. {From Flower s " Osteology ") Thus the cornicula may abort altogether, as in some Apes. Or they may be large, and represented by three distinct ossi- fications, named respectively (from above downwards) stylo- hyal, epi-hyal, and cerato-hyal, as is the case in the Flying Fox and in the Dog. These cornicula are normally connected with that process of the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone which has been named the tympano-hyal. The lowermost of these three pieces may send out a process and meet its fellow of the opposite side in front of the body of the bone, as is the case in the Hyrax. The cornua are more constant in the degree of their development in Mammals. They may be of large size, as in the Thylacine, but never present the segmented con- dition we so often find existing in the cornicula. They are perhaps at about their maximum of relative size among Mammals, in the Horse, sh