viil] THE MUSCLES. 317 sterno-hyoid even in the Platypus. It may, as in the Great Ant-eater, take origin as far back as the eighth bone of the sternum. The omo-hyoid may be wanting even in Mammals, as e.g. in the Dog. We find it, however, in Reptiles and Batrachians, though absent in Birds. It may arise from the clavicle (as Iguana), from the pre-coracoid (as Menobranchus), or be bent at almost a right angle, looping round the sterno- mastoid (as in the Chameleon). 18. In the vertebral region there may be three scaleni muscles, as in man, or but one* They may vary also as to the number of ribs from which they take origin, and may reach even to the basi-occipital (as, in the Agouti), or to the mastoid process (as in the Dolphin). They may be plainly but a continuation forwards of the levatores cost arum, as in Birds. They may be feebly developed, as in Reptiles, extending as in Iguana from the first four cervical vertebrae, or from the atlas, to the first cervical rib, as in Iguana and Chameleo. Finally, the scaleni may be indistinguishably blended with the dorsal muscular mass, as in Batrachians and Fishes. The rectus capitis anticus major may attain a much greater development than in man, extending down to the sixth dorsal vertebra. The longus colli may arise as far back as the seventh dorsal vertebra, as in the Agouti. We may have in Chelonians (e.g. E?7iys) a very elongated muscle extending from even the hindmost thoracic vertebrae and going to the basi-occipital, and beneath this a series of little muscles (extending each from one vertebra to the next but one in front) connecting together the cervical vertebrae and the anterior dorsal ones. Again, we may have a simple muscular mass answering apparently to both longus coitus and rectus anticus. Thus in the Chameleon we have such a muscle arising from the first eight or nine vertebrae, and going to the basi-occipital. The origin may be much more extensive in Serpents (where the hypapophyses afford points of origin), and in certain Batrachians (e.g. Menopoma and Menobranchus) a corre- sponding muscle stretches on each side from beneath the basis cranii throughout the whole trunk, and, diminishing backwards, ends (or rather arises) in the sub-vertebral part of the pelvic region. The rectus lateralis is really but the highest of the inter-