io6 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. The three elements (pro-otic, epiotic, and opisthotic) which, as we have seen, coalesce to form the petro-mastoid part ot the temporal bone of man, may be differently proportioned and conditioned from what they are in him. The Pro-otic is the largest and most important element or the three in Vertebrates below Mammals. It may meet with its fellow of the opposite side below, and thus form part of the inside floor of the skull, as is the case in many Fishes, e.g. the Pike. The Opisthotic constantly anchyloses with the lateral part of the occipital before it unites with the pro-otic in all Verte- brates below Mammals. In many forms, e.g. the Cod, it never unites with the pro-otic at all. The Epiotic constantly anchyloses, in all Vertebrates below Mammals, with the squamous portion of the occipital bone before it unites with the pro-otic and opisthotic elements. In Fishes and in Chelonians it preserves its distinctness from the occipital, though in Chelonians it coalesces with the opisthotic. These three bony barriers protecting the internal ear may be conveniently spoken of as the periotic 7nass. This mass may have added to it a part which, in some Mammals, appears as a lamelliform expansion, as in the Mole and still more in the Echidna, where it constitutes a con- siderable part of the cranial wall between the occipital, the squamosal, and the parietal bones. In Fishes, e.g. the Cod and Pike, it appears as a bone pro- jecting at the postero-external angle of the roof of the skull. It is called the pterotic.z It may also, in Fishes, have added to it a large and distinct ossification, the sphenotic? which has been called by mistake the post-frontal, and which takes part in suspending the lower jaw. The tympanic element of the temporal bone of man may, even in forms so little removed as are the American Apes, be reduced to the ring-like condition which it has in the human infant. On the other hand, in many Mammals, e.g. in the Dog and especially Macroscetides, it forms a large inflated structure termed a bulla. In oviparous Vertebrates it is not represented except by the frame of the tympanic membrane. The styloid element may be more conveniently treated of under the head of hyoidean structures. It is sufficient to say 1 n-rf pi»f, a wing. 2 So called because adjoining the alisphenoid,— by its discoverer, Mr. W. K. Parker, F.R. S., who also discovered and named the pterotic."