XI.] THE ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 441 in the Rabbit and Proteles; or but one, as in the Rat and Pig. They may be disposed in two parallel lines, as in the Sheep ; or altogether absent, as in the Manatee. They may be, as in the Orang, arranged in the same way that they are in Man ; or they may form the letter Y or T, as in the Chimpanzee. There may be a large horny papilla on each side, as in Manatee and Ornithorhynchus ; or there may be horny plates on the tongue, as in the Java Porcupine. The tongue may be extraordinarily smooth, but with little mobility and flexibility, as in the Elephant ; or small, nar- row, and tied down, as in the Manatee. It may have a bi- furcating apex, as in the Seal. It may be enormous, yet attached all round nearly to the very tip, and without papillae, as in the Whalebone Whale. The tongue may be exceedingly long, and furnished all round, except at the tip, with backwardly pointing spines, as in the Tamandua. This organ attains its greatest relative length amongst Mammals in Manis, where its muscles extend backwards, taking origin in the very elongated xiphoid process of the sternum. There is also a sterno-glossal muscle in the Great Ant-eater and in the Echidna. There may be a considerable cartilaginous lamelliform process extending forwards beneath the tongue, taking origin from its under surface further back, and having the appearance of a second small tongue beneath the true one. Such a structure is found in Lemurs. It is independent of the papillae for the sub-maxillary ducts, which papillae are at the same time conspicuous. These latter may unite to form a little bifid body beneath the tongue, as in the Gibbons. The papillae on which the sub-maxillary ducts open may be more elongated than in man : such is the case even in the Chimpanzee. 8. The (ESOPHAGUS, or gullet, of man is a nearly straight membranous and muscular tube, leading from the pharynx to the stomach. It consists externally of longitudinal and also of circular muscular fibres. Within this muscular coat there is cellular tissue, and this again is lined with mucous membrane. The stomach is formed of similar materials, and has been sufficiently described in the Sixth Lesson of " Elementary Physiology," ยง 18. It is a simple, somewhat pear-shaped bag, curved, so that its upper surface is concave. The gullet