132 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. tion of the foramen magnum. Nevertheless, its maximum of development in Mammals is not found in him, but in the little American Ape Chrysothrix. In the great majority of instances the occiput is not visible when the skull is looked at from beneath, or a projecting lambdoidal ridge is seen in the place of the lambdoidal suture. Occasionally, however (as in the Woodcock), the occipital surface is largely visible, the foramen magnum being situated far forwards, A peculiar character may exist in the occiput, as can be seen in the Indian Elephant, where there is a deep and sharp double depression with a median, vertical ridge. This de- pression curiously resembles that in which the cribriform plate is placed in so many Mammals, the median ridge reminding one of the crista gallL This occipital fossa is for the reception of a strong ligament, which helps to sustain the very weighty skull. An anterior condyloid foramen may be entirely absent, as in Fishes, in which class there is no distinct hypoglossal nerve. Great depending para-mastoid (or par-occipital) processes mav replace the mastoids, as in the Horse and the Capybara. The anterior region of the skull of adult man presents an appearance but very rarely approached by that of any brute. Nevertheless, certain of the American Monkeys (e.g. Pithecia and Nyctipithecus) present a close general resemblance, which is also to be plainly seen in the young Chimpanzee, and still better in the young Orang Utan. Generally speaking, owing to the prolongation of the muzzle, the skull is so much foreshortened when viewed in front that its actual shape can be very little seen. The same apparent distortion also occurs in extremely depressed or compressed skulls. Although the rounded frontal region of man is all but peculiar to him, his superciliary projections are but rudiments of what may be developed even in closely allied forms, as we see in the Gorilla, the superciliary ridges of which are enormous. Very generally the orbital fossae are placed so laterally that, unlike those of man, they are very little seen when the skull is looked at in front. On the other hand, they may approximate more closely than in him, as in many Monkeys. As has been said in describing the superior maxillary bone, the infra-orbital foramen may be replaced by a great aperture, or by a number of small apertures. The