THE CRANIAL SKELETON. HI.] The second element of the human maxillary bone—namely, that in which the incisor teeth are implanted—is termed in zootomy the fire-maxilla. Its existence in man, even at birth, is obscured (except on the surface of the palate) by anchylosis, and masked by the extension over it of a delicate plate, or lamina, of the first and far larger portion of the maxillary bone. This lamina is wanting in all other animals, and even in the Apes the maxillo-premaxillary suture is for a long time or permanently very evident on the face. A pre-maxilla is almost a constant element in an osseous skull; nevertheless, in some Bats and Shrews (e.g. Crocidura) it seems to abort. It may attain a vast size, as in Birds, where it forms the greater part of the upper half of the beak, and reduces the part representing the other element of the (human maxillary to insignificance. Generally double in Ba- jtrachians, apparently always so in Fishes, a single median pssification may nevertheless, as in Serpents, represent the pre-maxillae of both right and left sides conjoined. | In man's class the pre-maxilla varies greatly in size in dif- ferent animals, and this independently of the development Doth of the muzzle and of the teeth; for the Ant-eater and the Whale are both edentulous, and both have an enormously pro- iuced muzzle, yet, while in the former the pre-maxilla is ex- remely small, in the latter it is very largely developed. A lasal spine is very rare, but may exist below man, as in uedetes and the Walrus. Generally the development of the pre-maxilla is related to hat of the incisor teeth, which are defined by the fact of their )eing implanted in it, though when they are very large, as in lodents, their roots may extend backwards into the parts rfiich represent the first-described element of the maxillary )one of man. In some Bats (e.g. Vesfiertilio noctula), and the Ornitho- hynchus, we find the pre-maxilla separated by an interval *om its fellow of the opposite side. On the contrary, these lay be united not only below but also above the anterior ares, as in the Gavial and Echidna. Again, they may be nited in the middle line, but altogether separated from the rst-described element of the human maxillary bone, as in the 'hree-toed Sloth and in Serpents. I In this latter case we have normally existing that occasional pnormal arrest of development in man, which we call ]hare-lip." t j 26. The malar bone is almost at its maximum of relative