I.] 491 RECAP/TULA TION. (8) His coccygeal region is rudimentary. (9) His skin is furnished with hair. (10) The muscles of his limbs are numerous and complex. (11) His cerebrum is excessively large, with a corpus cal- losum, and his corpora quadrigemina are very small. (12) He has distinct hypoglossal nerves, which perforate the occipital. (13) His olfactory nerves traverse a cribriform plate. (14) His ear has a spiral cochlea, a tympanic membrane, and an Eustachian tube. (15) His posterior nares open far back within the mouth. (16) His tongue is large and fleshy. (17) He never has gills at any time of life. (18) He breathes by lungs from his birth. (19) His heart has two auricles and two ventricles. (20) All the blood of his body passes through the lungs. (21) There is no communication, in the adult, between the veins and arteries, save by the capillaries. (22) He has but one aortic arch. (23) He is furnished with a larynx. (24) His alimentary canal neither terminates in a cloaca nor anteriorly to the urinary outlet. (25) He has a complete diaphragm. (26) His kidneys replace transitory Woolffian bodies. (27) He has no fin rays. (28) His blood-corpuscles are not nucleated. (29) He is provided with salivary glands. 17. Man is distinguished from all BATRACHIANS in that— (1) His skull is formed with a large basi-sphenoid but no para-sphenoid, with a large squamosal confluent with a " petrous bone," and a mandible formed of two united pieces directly suspended from the squamosal. (2) His skull has a wellrdeveloped basi-occipital. - (3) His auditory ossicles are minute, and take no part in suspending the mandible. (4) His ribs join a sternum. (5) His vertebrae at first have terminal epiphyses. (6) His skin is furnished with hair. (7) His cerebrum is excessively large, with a corpus cal- losum, and his corpora quadrigemina are very small. (8) His olfactory nerves traverse a cribriform plate. (9) His ear has a spiral cochlea. (10) His posterior nares open far back within the mouth.