ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. [less. 3o It differs from all the other vertebrae in having a large blunt process of bone (like a peg) continued upwards from its cen- trum. This is the odontoid1 process, and it has on its front aspect a smooth articular surface. The front surface of the rest of its body often bears a slightly marked median vertical prominence. The axis also differs from all the other cervical vertebrae in having its neural spine stouter and rather more projecting, though still bifid at its apex. Moreover there are no pre- zygapophyses, but instead, there is on each side a large articular surface in front of the root of the capitular process. ii. The first cervical vertebra is also quite peculiar, and bears the special name "atlas," because it supports the head. fry Fig. 42.—The Atlas Vertebra. s, rudiment of neural spine ; d, tubercular process ; fit capitular process ; a, ar- ticular surface for skull ; hy, plate of bone holding the place of a centrum, and articulating with the odontoid process of the axis vertebra. It differs from every other vertebra in having no true centrum, its two lateral halves being connected together in front by a plate of bone, which articulates by its hinder surface with the front surface of the odontoid process of the axis, while its own front surface developes a slight median prominence. While in the axis the neural arch is slightly deeper and the neural spine larger than in the other cervical vertebrae, in the atlas the neural arch is much more slender, while the neural spine is absent, or represented by a small tubercle only. The neural arch is either perforated or deeply notched above, just behind the root of the transverse process, which is longer and larger than in the other cervical vertebrae. Zygapophyses are entirely wanting, but we find a large articular surface developed both below and above the root of the transverse process of each side. The two lower of these articular surfaces join those before 1 From bdovt;, a tooth, and eidog, form.