THE CRANIAL SKELETON. III.] 127 33. Those CONNEXIONS OF THE BONES of the skull one with another which take place in man are not all constant in Vertebrates generally, as we have already seen. Certain unions, however, are absolutely constant and invariable, as that of the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid—the pre-sphenoid and basi-sphenoid—the parietal and occipital—the maxillary and jugal, when the last-mentioned bone is present. Several exceptional connexions have been already given. In the skull of many Vertebrates vacuities often exist where bone is present in man—tracts osseous in him being repre- sented by membrane only. An example of such defect is seen in that region of the skull of Lizards (e.g. Iguana) which cor- responds with the wings of the sphenoid of the human skull. The transitory fontanelle1 of man is permanent in some animals, as e.g. certain Sharks, where the cranium is to a large extent roofed by membrane instead of by bone or cartilage. The excessively dentated condition of certain sutures in man is exceptional, nevertheless not unparalleled. We may sometimes (e.g. in the Gorilla) find sutures even more complex. The persistence of the sutures in man is less than in many animals, and also greater than in many. Thus we may find, as in Fishes and Reptiles, a variety of bones distinct which in him are united. We may, on the other hand, as in Birds, find a number of bones united which in him are distinct. One suture, however, which, as has been mentioned, almost constantly persists in other forms than man, is not repre- sented in him (except on the palate), even at birth. This is the one between the maxilla and the pre-maxilla. Again, the intimate union which exists in him between the basi- sphenoid and the pre-sphenoid is very far from persisting even in his own class. I On the other hand, that distinctness which always obtains in him between the petrous part of the temporal bone and [the occipital portion of the skull, is very early lost in the Sauropsida. The skull may present a much less compact mass than in man s class. Thus m Birds the elongated facial bones which go to form I 1 The fontanelle is a space on the crown of the head, which, in the new-born infant, is only closed by fibrous structures, the parlctals and frontals not having yet joined.