ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. another:—I. Mammalia (Man and Beasts); II. Aves in the whole of the Invertebrata (as far as yet known), with the doubtful exception of Ascidians. Visceral clefts and arches may persist throughout life, as in fishes; but with respect to this, much more will be said later. From the foregoing concise statement of the more im- portant general characters of man's anatomy and that of animals generally, it is evident that his frame has been con- structed upon a certain plan which in its main characters is common to all the members of one large group (sub-kingdom) of animals. This will* become manifest when we proceed more into detail and discover structures the utility of which is, to say the least, apparently subordinate to their significance as conforming to a general type of structure. 21. It may well be the case that the rational faculties of man could have been united to no more suitable a body than that which he possesses. Fancy may nevertheless amuse itself by considering possibilities of structure (as shown by what we find in existing animals) were he not tied down to conformity to the vertebrate type. The fabled Briareus is suggested by the " thousand-legs " and centipede. A natural armour, moved by a cunningly adjusted internal mechanism, is suggested by the lobster. A spear tipped with poison, like trie wourari, is suggested by the wasp ; and the appliances of even the most modern warfare by the Bombardier Beetle. Eyes multitudinous, attached to movable stalks or at our fingers' ends—ears in our breast, or attached to our shin- bones—are suggested by what we know of some insects. 22. It is the fact, however, that man's body is strictly verte- brate, and vertebrate only. It remains then to consider it from the vertebrate point of view. His resemblances to all animals below the Vertebrata are so general and remote, that it would be profitless henceforth to consider and com- pare (in going into the details of his structure) any such distant resemblances or relationships as those presented by invertebrate animals, of which we accordingly here take leave. It is needful, however, to have a clear general conception of the animals which compose the Vertebrate sub-kingdom, to which repeated references will henceforth be made. 23. The Vertebrata are divisible into five great classes, which stand in different degrees of relationship one to