349 VIII.] THE MUSCLES. fibula, or, as in the Chameleon, by a fan-like expansion into the outer side of the fibula. This muscle is very generally developed, as it exists even in Menobranchus, where it seems to represent the long head of the biceps femoris of man. (2) We have sometimes {e.g. in Urodeles) a muscle springing from the shaft of the femur, just below the inser- tion of the femoro-caudal, and itself inserted into the fibula. It seems to answer to the short head of the human biceps femoris, and if so it is interesting to note at what a remote distance from man we find a striking analogy to human structure, which yet seems absent in the Sauropsida (Fig. 313, B). (3) We have the large and very remarkable muscle (the femoro-caudal, before described) arising from the caudal vertebrae, and inserted by a very strong tendon into the great trochanter, but giving off a delicate tendon passing down into the popliteal space to the inter-articular cartilage between the femur and the tibia. (4) Finally, we have in some Reptiles {e.g. the Iguana) a muscle arising from the tendinous arch, which passes from the so-called ilium to the so-called spine of the pubis, and inserted by a tendon (passing between the tibia and fibula) into the front aspect of the upper part of the tibia, or passing down to a plantar ossicle, as in the Chameleon (Figs. 309, 312, and 317, BF). By a still greater complication this muscle may be doubled, as in the Crocodile and Alligator ; one part having a twofold insertion into the front of the tibia and the plantaris muscle, the other portion having a twofold insertion into the head of the fibula and the external gastrocnemius. Semi-tendinosus. This is exceptionally slender in man. Even in man's own order it may have a second head of origin from the coccygeal vertebras, as in the Aye-aye; and often in other Mammals {e.g. the Horse) it is very large. Its insertion, even in Apes, is lower than in man and Bats. In the Dog and Cat it is attached to the middle of the tibia, while in the Bear it is inserted still lower. This muscle may partly end in a tendon becoming confluent with that of the internal gastro- cnemius, as in Birds. A muscle which may be the semi- tendinosus, but which otherwise has no representative in man, springs from the tendinous arch referred to in speaking of the biceps, and is inserted into the upper part of the tibia by a tendon common to it and to the gracilis in the Iguana, or above it into the inter-articular cartilage in the Chameleon.