THE SPINAL SKELETON. II.] 69 Snakes, which glide along by the successive application to the ground of the edges of ventral horny plates, each plate being attached to the ends of a pair of ribs. There being no sternum in Serpents, all the ribs are, as before said, " false ;" but all the ribs may also be false notwithstanding the presence of a sternum, as in Tailed-Batrachians. The ribs may form a solid case for the protection of all the other parts. Thus in Tortoises the head and limbs can be drawn into such a case (called the carapace), which is formed of greatly expanded ribs J f joining each other, and also the expanded neural spines before no- ticed, by suture (Fig. 57). In man we find the floating ribs float by their anterior ends only, their hinder ends articulating with Fig. 78.—Ribs of the Flying the vertebras. The very reverse Lizard {Draco voians). condition to this may appear to s> sternum; x one of the di- , , . ,•• jM t_ verging branches of the xiphoid obtain, as m the Crocodile, where proJess; t, true ribs;/, floating we have ventral rib-like structures ribs, (towards the hinder end of the ab- domen), which are attached ventrally, but are free at their vertebral ends, and thus float in the reverse direction. These, however, are hardly true ribs, but are ossifications of a more superficial region. The presence in the ribs of a distinct "head" and "tubercle," as in man, is a very general but not a constant character. Very often, however, if not always, when there is but one articular surface for attachment to the vertebral column, that surface represents and is equivalent to a " head" and " tubercle," as it were, united and fused together ; though in Monotremes the ribs are attached only to the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae. This gradual fusion is well shown in the different vertebrae of the Crocodile, where, as we proceed post-axially, these two parts become more and more approximated together. As in man, so generally, it is at the more pre-axial part of the series of ribs that this distinction into head and tubercle is most marked.