vir.] THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. absorption of the fang of its predecessor. Replacement is not the effect of mechanical pressure, but the two actions (development and absorption) proceed harmoniously, the now fangless milk-tooth easily falling out when its successor is ready to take its place, unless through some abnormality of growth the aid of the dentist has become necessary. Before mentioning the order of succession, the teeth them- selves must be shortly described. 18. The teeth OF man, when adult, should be thirty-two in number. As the two sides of each jaw are alike, it will be suffi- cient to notice the eight teeth above and eight below of each side. The fangs or roots of all teeth are firmly fitted into corre- spondingly shaped cavities in the bones of the jaws, which cavities are termed alveoli, and cutting shape, are called incisors; adult Man. but we Shall See that there is another h incisors ; c, canines • pm, pre- reason why they belong to a special molars; m> molars- category. The third tooth above is more pointed, more conical, and has a longer though still single fang. It is called the eye- tooth, or canine. The fourth tooth above has a flatter and broader (from within outwards) crown, and bears two pointed tubercles (or cusps), one internal, the other external. Its fang is flattened and vertically grooved, showing a tendency to division, while at its end it is in general actually divided and has two apertures, one in each division. The fifth upper tooth is like that last described, and the two, from the number of their tubercles, ar@ called bicuspid, and from their more flattened crowns (better adapted for grinding) they are also called molars. The fifth differs from The front tooth of each lateral half of the upper jaw has a chisel- shaped crown with a horizontal cutting edge. It has a single, long, tapering fang. this mode of union of parts (like a nail driven into any substance) is termed go?nphosis.x The second tooth is like the first, and these two, on account of their Fig. 219.—Upper and Lower Teeth of left side of an