3o8 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [less. The abductor pollicis pedis takes origin from the cuboides and third and fourth metatarsals. Passing obliquely, it is inserted conjointly with the external insertion of the flexor b rev is pollicis. The transversus pedis is a narrow b^nd stretching from the distal ends of the metatarsals and blending with the insertion of the adductor pollicis into the first phalanx of the hallux. The interosseous muscbs are like those of the hand, except that it is the second digit, not the third, which has two dorsal interossei. This condition results simply from the fact that the origin (from the metatarsal) of the fibular interosseus of the second digit is placed on the dorsal side of the tibial interosseus of the middle digit. Such is the normil condition of man's muscles, but these structures are liable to considerable individual variation. 15 On turning to other Vertebrate animals in order to estimate the peculiarity of man's muscular structure, we find that, as regards the muscles of the head and neck, the occipito-fro)italis truly belongs to a distinct category of " skin-muscles," whereof the platysma my aides also forms a part. This dermal group of muscles is very feebly repre- sented in man compared with what we find in brutes, e.g. the Horse, where it is termed the panniculus carnosus, and by its contractions produces those twitchings of the skin which must be familiar to most readers. It is most de- veloped in such forms as the Porpoise (where it envelops the whole body from the occiput to the tail end), the Echidna, nnd the Hedgehog. In the last-named animal it is so com- plex that it may be divided into nine pairs of muscles, one pair being the " occipito-frontalis." When all these muscles contract, the animal becomes "rolled up," the limbs be- coming, as it were, enclosed in a muscular bag. The panni- culus is commonly inserted into the arm and leg, and part of it may, as in the Echidna, be applied round the mammary- gland, which it serves to compress. Muscles such as those which exist in man's face may be wanting altogether, as e.g. in the Tortoises, b'»t some of them may, as we shall see, be much more developed in certain animals than thev are in him. Thus we may have his superior auricular represented by two muscles, and his anterior auricular and his posterior auHculir by four, together with two or three extra muscles, as in the Horse.