158 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOM V. [less. toed Sloth, where it joins the acromion. It may be not only long, but also forked, as in the little Pipistrelle Bat. It may also join the clavicle, as in the Three-toed Sloth and Mole. . As has been said, this part may even in man's class (viz. in Monotremes) be a large distinct bone connecting the scapula with the sternum, and having an additional flat bone placed in front of the inner end of the coracoid, called the epi- coracoid, and a distinct rudiment of the epicoracoid may be found in a higher Mammalian form, e.g. in Sorex. The coracoid shares with the scapula the office of forming the glenoid surface for the humerus, and it may become fused with the clavicle, as in the Mole. The coracoid may not only be a large bone rivalling or exceeding the scapula, as in Birds, but there may be complex structures divisible in zootomy into coracoid and epicoracoid, as before said, and also in addition a part termed pre-cora- coid, which, though essentially related to the coracoid, will yet be more conveniently spoken of in treating of the clavicle. Fig. 133.—Shoulder Girdle of a Bird (Diver). {After Parker.) c, coracoid (its lower end abuts against the sternum—here removed); r/, the clavicles (merrythought) : sc, the scapula—the rounded glenoid surface is indicated in the scapula just where it joins the coracoid. These coracoid elements may take the form of a large car- tilaginous sheet passing down from the glenoid surface to the middle line of the breast, as in Efts ; or may appear as two bones so passing down on each side, one in front of the other, as in the Frogs ; or as a large sheet of bone and carti- lage often more or less perforated, as in many Lizards. Instead of a single glenoid surface (as we find in all Ver- tebrates above Fishes which have pectoral limbs), we find what may possibly be several distinct glenoid surfaces, as e.g. three in Rata clavata. • Where the coracoids are in the form of large lamellae, they may overlap one the other, as in Batrachians, e.g. Salaman- dra and the Frog. The coracoid and scapula may form one cartilaginous whole, while the supra-scapula remains distinct, as in Rata