4S5 THE EXCRETORY ORGAXS. XII.] vertebral artery, or both. It may lie between the diverging carotids, as in Python and Che Ionia, or on the carotids, close to the basi-branchials, as in the Frog. It is thus generaliy connected with the primitive arteries to which the aorta gives rise. 14. The THYMUS GLAND of man is but a temporary struc- ture, which disappears in the adult, and is at its maximum of size at about the end of the second year. It is then long and narrow, and placed partly in the chest and partly in the neck between the sternum and the great vessels . and having the appearance of a ductless gland. It is irregular in shape, with a considerable internal cavity, but it is more or less com- pletely divided into two elongated lateral lobes, which taper upwards. At birth it measures about two inches in length. In that man develops a thymus gland he agrees with air- breathing Vertebrates generally. It appears to be wanting in Pro tens and Siren, and to be developed in the Tadpole of the Frog only with the develop- ment of the lungs, disappearing again in the adult, and being transformed into fat. It is often, as in the Frog, a double gland—one on each side. In the Chick the thymus soon aborts, but is present, when the animal is a week old. as two hollow tubes placed one on each side of the neck. The thymus may be broad and flat, covering the thyroid sternally, as in Iguana. It may send up. on each side, a pro- cess within the angle of the mandible, and may so form a large mass beneath the skull, as in the Calf. 15. The CUTANEOUS GLANDS of the human body are insignificant in size, with the exception of that special agglo- meration of them which constitutes the mammary gland, or breast. They are of two kinds—sebaceous glands and sudoriferous or sweat glands. (1) The sebaceous glands (noticed in Lesson V. § 32 of the u Elementary Physiology" are each a cluster of small secreting tubes placed in the dermis, and discharging their fatty secretion, by a small duct, usually into the sheath or follicle of one of the hairs. (2) The sudoriferous glands (noticed in Lesson X. m6 of the "Elementary Physiology") consist each of a fine secreting tube, coiled up into a ball, placed beneath the dermis, in the subcutaneous tissue, and pouring out its con- tents by a delicate convoluted tube opening by a pore on the surface of the epidermis.