[less. 2^2 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. such bones acute are termed flexors. Those, on the contrary, which tend to open out such an angle are termed extensors. Some muscles attached to a long bone which is relatively fixed at one end, tend to make it describe the superficies of a cone, or a movement of circumduction. Such muscles are termed rotators. Some muscles move a bone away from a given axis, and are therefore termed abductors. Others tend to bring it towards such an axis, and such are called adductors. The epithets "protractors" "retractors" "elevators" and " de- pressors " (terms which require no explanation), are also some- times made use of. There cannot, however, be any rational classification of muscles according to the functions they execute, because such functions often vary in different animals with regard to the very same muscle. 4. A sound CLASSIFICATION of muscles must be morpho- logical, and may be made to follow that classification of parts which has been already given with respect to the skeleton, or may be constructed independently. An independent general consideration of the muscular system, however (whether ac- cording to its simplest or most complex condition), will come most fitly at the end of this lesson. Arranging the muscles (in the first place) according to the skeleton, we have— (a) Muscles of the exo-skeleton, and (6) Muscles of the endo-skeleton. To this it will be convenient to add a third category, namely— (c) Muscles of the viscera. The exo-skeletal system of muscles may consist of smooth or of striped fibres.1 Such are the small muscles which go from the deep layer of the skin to the hair-sacs, and by their contraction make the hair " stand on end." These muscles become large and important in Birds, and are in them striped instead of un- striped as in Man. Other muscles, to be hereafter noted, belong to this cate- gory, such as the Platysma Alyoides, and certain muscles of the face of man. The endo-skeletal system is naturally divisible, like the skeleton itself, into an axial and appendicular portion. These 1 For an account of this difference of structure in muscular fibres, see Lesson XII. of " Elementary Physiology,'' § 15.