[less. 230 ELEMENTAR Y ANA TOMY. 1 See Lesson VIII. In the first place, it appears that the appendicular appa- ratus is, in the developed skeleton, no mere portion of the axial skeleton, but is (in all forms as yet known) a distinct system of parts appended to and more or less closely and variously connected with the axial system. 18. The upper limbs in man are suspended, as we have seen, from an incomplete bony girdle attached to the backbone on its dorsal aspect, by soft parts only ; but on the ventral aspect abutting against the median portion of the paraxial system, i.e. against the sternum—doing this, nevertheless, Fig. 198.—Transverse Section of the Thorax of Man, showing the relation borne by the appendicular skeleton (shoulder-girdle) to the axial skeleton : the latter is represented by the black parts of the figure. n, neural canal; s, neural spine ; tc, thoracic cavity; s, sternum ; c, clavicle ; sc, scapula (cut through) ; h, head of the humerus. only with the clavicles. We have seen, however, that man has but an imperfect shoulder-girdle compared with what is possible, for in some animals this part joins the sternum by great coracoids, to which pre-coracoid bones are appended, as in Echidna; and in others, as Raia, it abuts against the neural axial canal, thus becoming a really complete shoulder-girdle. The humerus we have found to be a bone constantly single in all Vertebrates above Fishes—at the least. But the relations of size of its tuberosities may be reversed, and the so-called lesser, i.e. the ulnar tuberosity, may be the larger one. The elbow-joint is directed backwards ; but when the rudimentary limb first appears, the arm is so placed that, the joint would be directed outwards. Later, the elbow be- comes rotated backwards. When this rotation is effected the palm of the hand would be directed forwards {i.e. pre-axially), but that by the move- ment of pronation it becomes directed backwards {i.e. post- axially) or downwards—as when we rest the palm of the hand on a table. 19. In the primitive, embryonic position, the back of the humerus, the olecranon, and the back (or as it is called, from its muscular relations,1 the extensor surface) of the hand are