ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. 466 [less. It may abort altogether in the adult (the swim-bladder thus becoming quite separate from the alimentary tube), as in the Cod, Perch, and very many others. In shape the swimming-bladder may bifurcate anteriorly as in Lucio-perca, or posteriorly as in Acanthnrusj or it may be constricted towards its middle, as in the Carp; or it may send out two blind processes on each side, as in Corvtnaj or a multitude on each side, as in Johnius. Finally, the swim-bladder may give out processes from each side, each process bifurcating dorsally and ventrally, Retia 77iirabilia may exist in the swim-bladder, as in the Cod. Every representative of a lung may be absent, as in the Sharks, Rays, Pleuronectidcey M arsipobranchii, and AvipJii- oxuSj in all of which there is no swim-bladder. The mechanism of aerial, pulmonic respiration, which exists in man, exists also in all Mammals—the diaphragm being their main agent in filling and emptying the lungs. The lungs, however, may be filled and emptied by alternate movements of the sternum towards and away from the vertej bral column. This is the case in Birds (Fig. 76), where suet movements are aided by the synovial articulations betweer the sternal and vertebral ribs. ^4 If: and each dorsal and ventral bifurca- tion again dividing and anastomosing with processes of the opposite side, the whole complex structure being invested by folds of the peritoneum. This maximum of complexity is ex- hibited by Callichthys. It may be connected with the in- ternal ear, as in the Carp (Cyprinus) and Loach (Cobitis), by the interven- tion of small special ossicles analo- gous to, but not homologous with, the auditory ossicles of man. In the Loach the bladder seems chiefly related to some auditory function, as it only extends to the third vertebra. Fig. 304.—Air-bladder of the teleostkan flsh, jfj/iuius lobatus. The cavity of the swim-bladder may be simple, as is usually the case ; it may be divided by septa, as in Bagrus; it may, finally, be so sub-; divided into cells as to be like the lung of a Reptile, as is the case in Amia.