8o ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. [les! ear below, is continued inwards as a tube having on its under surface a rough ridge. On account of its connexion with the drum of the ear it is called " tympanic? and forms the floor of the passage leading into the internal ear or meatus audi- tortus externus. Between it and the glenoid surface is a narrow slit or fissure, called the Jissura Glaseri (which trans- mits the chorda tympani nerve), while behind it hangs down a long, very slender process, termed "styloid," posterior to and outside the root of which, is the stylo-mastoid foramen, which transmits the facial nerve. The rest of the bone consists of two parts, namely, (i) the mastoid process already referred to, and (2) an irregularly shaped piece (which on account of its hardness is called the petrous1 bone) projecting inwards like a wedge on the base of the skull, between the occipital and the sphenoid. In addition to the connexions already noted, the temporal joins the malar by means of its zygomatic process. The petrous and mastoid portions enclose the inner and essential parts of the ear, the internal canal of which (called meatus auditorius interims) opens on the inner surface of the petrous, wedgelike piece, and gives entrance to the nerve of hearing. Towards the apex of the wedgelike projection is seen a large aperture which is one end of a canal, the other end of which opens on the under surface within and in front of the styloid process. This is the canal for the internal carotid artery, which thus takes its way right through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Internal to its anterior open- ing and at the angle formed by the junction of the petrous part of the temporal bone with its squamous part, are two] small openings placed one above the other. These are the apertures of two tubes (which run backwards, parallel and apposed like the barrels of a double-barrel gun, in the sub- stance of the bone), the lower of which is the Eustachian tube, and conveys air from the mouth to the internal ear. The upper tube gives passage to the small tensor tympani muscle. A sharp ridge runs inwards and forwards from the root of! the styloid process. This ridge is termed the vaginal process. The temporal bone arises by very distinct and significant ossifications. Thus we have (1) the squamous and zygomatic portions forming one element; (2) the tympanic portion, which is at first a mere delicate ring of bone ; (3) the styloid process, 1 From 7re'Tpo£, a stcne.