[less. EL EMEN TAR Y ANA TO MY. 42 pass out through perforations in the neural arches them- selves, and not between the notches of contiguous arches. There may be additional parts and processes which are quite wanting in man, except as represented by the slight median ridge in front of the axis vertebra. Such are the processes (sometimes median and azygos,1 sometimes paired) which appear on the ventral aspect of the centrum in many animals, and which are termed hypapo- physes.2 They may exist as single processes, as in the Hare and in poisonous Serpents, which have them developed Fig. 55.—Anterior Surface of Twelfth Caudal Vertebra of Leopard. m, metapophysis ; p, processes serially continuous with those which support the posterior zygapophyses in the anterior vertebra ; k, hypapophyses. The process on the side of the body between m and h is the anterior transverse process. {From Prof. Flower's "Osteology:") Fig. 54—Anterior Surface of the Lumbar Vertebra of Hare (Lepus timid us). s, sp'nous process ; in, metapophysis ; az, a.iterior zygapophysis ; t, transverse process ; h, hypapophysis. [From Prof. Flower's l( Osteology") throughout the greater part of the vertebral column. In the harmless snake Rachiodon some of these processes extend into the oesophagus (swallow), and becoming coated with a toothlike substance, act as teeth. Hypapophyses may be developed as paired processes, as in the coccygeal vertebrae of many beasts, or they may be in the form of Y-shaped arches, as we commonly find them beneath some or other of the coccygeal vertebrae when these latter are large and numerous. 23 Dorsal vertebrae, if by that be meant "vertebrae bearing ribs," are constant parts in all Vertebrates, save those in which, like the Lancelet and Marsipobranchs, neither vertebrae nor annexed lateral and body-encircling structures 1 Azygos, from- a, not, and t"7«£> a fellow. This term is applied to parts which are single, as opposed to tho^e which exist in pairs. u From U7r6, under, and apophysis.