[less. 37* EL E ME NT A R V ANA TOMY. growth from the middle of the base of its hemisphere, and j forms the axis around which the whole hemisphere is de-| veloped. The " Island of Reil" lies in the outer surface of I each corpus striatum. The optic thalami are thickenings in the outer walls of the 1 third ventricle. The corpora mammillaria are the anterior inferior ends of j] the fornix, being the roots of what are called its " anterior J pillars." The roof of the fourth ventricle is formed of the ependyma alone, the pia mater and arachnoid being reflected over the postero-inferior surface of the cerebellum. The " temporal lobe " of the cerebrum is developed early; j the "occipital lobe" is a subsequent outgrowth from the hinder part of the hemisphere. At first the cerebral hemispheres are smooth, the various convolutions arising successively as development proceeds. The corpora quadrigemina are at first represented by but 1 a single hollow prominence on each side. 10. A survey of the brain of Vertebrates generally, shows 1 us that this organ in man attains a very notable degree ot-j SIZE and complexity. Yet the convolutions of the cerebrum may be still more numerous than in him, as we see in the \ Whales; and the absolute size of the organ in the same j animals exceeds that of man very considerably. It might be supposed that the mass of the brain in man, as compared with the weight of his body, is at a maximum ; but it is not so, for even in some small Birds the proportional weight of the brain is more than twice as great as in man. Nevertheless, considering man's actual bulk, the relative size of his brain is very large, for, speaking generally, the larger the body the less the relative size of the brain ; so that we may safely assert that no animal with his bulk of body has 1 a brain nearly so large relatively as man has. 11. The cerebral hemispheres in man, in that they are excessively convoluted, agree with those of the largest ani- mals of man's own class, but in the smaller members of even his own order {e.g. some American Monkeys) they may be I almost smooth, as is the case in all below Mammals. They may be broader relatively than in man, as in Cetaceans, and in a less degree in Seals. They may be more truncated anteriorly (as in Ruminants), or more pointed (as in the Rabbit). They may, by rare exception, project back beyond the]