XII.] 487 THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. flank, as in the Shrews ; or there may be a glandular sac opening near the armpit, as in the Bat Cheiromeles, There may be a gland in the sacral region of the back, opening by a median orifice like a dorsal navel, as in the Peccari. There may be a gland in each groin, as in the Corinne Antelope, or placed more medianly and post-axially, as in the Musk Deer, where the sac may be three inches broad. Scent-glands may open at or near the post-axial termina- tion of the intestine, as in many Carnivora, e.g. the Skunk and Hyaena. In the higher division of man's order (the Apes) there are no such glandular structures, but in the Lemuroids (e.g. Cheiromys) there may be a shallow pit-like gland on each side of the end of the alimentary tube. There may be a scent-gland in the tail, as in the Desman and the Fox, or near the arm, as in certain Bats (Emballonura and Saccopteryx), where there is a glandular sac in each wing-membrane. A glandular structure may open behind the foot, as in the Rhinoceros, or in front of it, between the toes, as in the Sheep. We may find (as in the male Ornithorhynchus and Echidna) a large gland placed in the leg, and furnished with a long duct which passes to the heel and there traverses a perforated spur like the poison-fang of a Serpent, though it does not seem to poison, or even to be used for defence. In descending below man's class to Birds, we find a peculiar cutaneous structure, the " uropygialgland? consist- ing of two parts conjoined, and in the Swan measuring an inch and a half in length. It is placed upon the more post- axial caudal vertebrae and ploughshare bone, and opens on the skin, where it discharges a greasy fluid to lubricate the feathers. Another glandular structure is present in Birds, the Bursa Fabricii. This is a conical cavity which opens into the post- axial region of the cloaca. It is placed between the ureters, on the ventral aspect of the sacrum. In Reptiles we may find other structures. Thus there may be, as in the Crocodile, a musky gland inside the mandible ; or beneath it, as in the Indian Tortoise. There may be a glandular fossa opening into the dorsal aspect of the cloaca, as in the Terrapins ; or a pair of elongated sacs opening beside the post-axial termination of the intestine, as in the common Snake ; or a pair of glandular depressions of the