THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. X.] 423 The veins from certain viscera, namely, the spleen, the mesentery, the intestines, and the stomach, finally unite into a single trunk—the portal vein, already mentioned. This enters the liver, and there breaks up and ramifies side by side with the ramifications of the hepatic artery, which latter brings arterial blood to that organ. This double supply of blood (one arterial, the other venous) is antagonized by but a simple set of efferent vessels, the hepatic veins. These, as before said, collect themselves together in the liver, meet and en- large, and finally open obliquely into the vena cava inferior ■—a semilunar fold being visible at the lower border of the orifice of each vein. There remains one more venous structure which may be noted, namely, what is called the azygos vein—an absurd designation, as there are really two such veins, though that on the right side is much the larger. The right azygos communicates with the vena cava soon after its own origin, and ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, receiving venous branches called lumbar veins and intercostals. It originates below in the lumbar veins and terminates above in the vena cava superior. The left azygos is similar, except in size and in that it opens above into the left innominate vein. The two azygos veins communicate by a transverse branch passing behind the oesophagus, and it is here that the left vena azygos is said (in works on human anatomy only) to terminate—the part above this junction, and intermediate between it and the innominate vein, being spoken of in Anthropotomy as the left superior intercostal vein, 9. In their development the veins of man undergo re- markable modifications. The first veins to appear are a pair which come from the in- testine and ventral region to the heart, and lay the foundation of the portal and hepatic veins. These primitive veins are called omphalo-meseraic; they unite and dilate into a venous chamber (called sinus venosus) before entering the heart. Two other venous trunks appear on each side, beneath the primitive skeletal axis, and each sends down a vein (the ductus Cuvieri) which opens also into the sinus venosus. The part of each trunk which runs backwards from the head to the ductus Cuvieri is called the anterior cardinal vein. The part of each trunk which runs forwards from the hind part of the body to the ductus Cuvieri is called the posterior cardinal vein.