ELEMENTARY ANA TO MY. [less. 26 posterior cylinder of the human trunk, spoken of in the First Lesson. The thickened anterior parts of the vertebrae are also placed and adjusted one upon another, and by their super- position form a vertical solid column, namely, that spoken of in the first lesson as the partition separating the small dorsal cylinder from the larger ventral one. The thickened anterior part of each vertebra is called its "body" or "centrum," The ring of the vertebra (which springs from the centrum on each side of its posterior surface meeting in the middle line behind) is termed the arch and, because it contains part of the spinal cord, the neural1 arch—the spinal cord being, with the brain, the central part of the nervous system. The various bony prominences of the vertebrae are termed " processes." The vertebrae are connected by joints of the second (or mixed) kind. Their adjacent surfaces are for the most part nearly flat, and we find interposed and connecting them a dense fibrous body or disc, toughest and hardest towards its circumference, with a pulpy substance in its middle. Each such body is termed an intervertebral substance. No syno- vial fluid lubricates the joints between the bodies of the vertebrae, though present between the junctions of some of the processes. The vertebrae are also held together by strong ligaments which pass vertically down the centra, both in front of and behind them. 7. The VERTEBRAE are divisible into five different categories. First come those of the neck, which are termed cervical?-, They are seven in number. Secondly, those of the back, which have the ribs attached to them, and which bear the name dorsal. Of these there are twelve. Thirdly, we find certain large vertebrae which do not bear ribs : these are situate below the dorsal vertebrae, and, are called lumbar. There are five of them. All the above vertebrae are termed " true vertebrae," because they do not become anchylosed together, but remain connected by ligaments and by intervertebral substances only. Below these true vertebrae come those which are called "false," and which sooner or later anchylose together to form two bony masses. 1 From vevpov, a nerve. 2 From cervix, the neck.