in.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. 101 21. The development attained by the frontal bone in the human subject is very greatly above the average of man's class, and bears relation to the vast development of his brain. Sometimes, on the contrary, as in the Cetacea, the orbital part may be enormously developed outwards on each side. The primitive double condition in which, as we have seen, this bone exists in man, very often persists in adult life in other Mammals. It may do so in Apes, though sometimes in that order (e.g. Pithecid) not only is it united, but it even develops a median ridge, continuing forwards the sagittal one. In many Reptiles and Fishes, however, this bone is single, as in the Gecko and the Cod. Each half of the frontal bone may meet below as well as above, so as to form a complete bony ring, as in the Python. . The external angular process of the frontal may rarely (as e.g. in the Horse) join not the malar, but the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. In the majority of the members of man's class this process joins neither of those bones, but merely forms a freely projecting post-orbital process. Sometimes it is completely absent, as is the case in several forms, e.g. the Tanrecs. On the other hand, in the Sauro- psida, a distinct bone (either tempo- rally as in Birds, or permanently as in Reptiles) extends downwards from the | postero-external part of the frontal. This either ends freely, as in most Birds; or it contributes to form a sort of upper zygoma, as in some Parrots and Lizards; or, as in Python, passes downwards to abut against the single zygomatic arch. It is called the post-frontal. A bone exists in the skull of osseous Fishes which has often been called the " post-frontal," but which has no rela- tion to that bone of Reptiles, being really an ossification of the ear capsule, and therefore the representative of part of the petrous bone of man. The superciliary ridges, which in some races of men are much marked, may attain a far greater size, being at their maximum in one of the highest Apes, viz. the Gorilla. The two sides of the frontal may unite behind the cribri- form plate, as is the case in the commonest Monkeys. Fig. 98.—Diagram repre- senting a Transverse Vertical Section of the Skull of a Serpent. /, frontal, meeting its fellow of the other side both above and below in the middle line;/#, para-sphe- noid ; t, one of the trabe- cule cranii which persist in serpents, running for- wards on each side of the base of the skull.