303 THE MUSCLES. VIII.] The sartorius is a long flat ribbon-like muscle, passing obliquely down from the front margin of the ilium to the side of the tibia just below the tuberosity. The great extensor of the leg, the quadriceps, consists of four parts—(1) the rectus femoris, passing down from the anterior, inferior spinous process and the brim of the aceta- bulum ; (2) the vastus externus, and (3) the vastus internus, fleshy masses attached respectively to the outer and inner sides of the shaft of the femur; and (4) the crureus, con- sisting of fibres springing from the front of the thigh-bone. The whole are inserted, by a tendon attached to the patella, into the tuberosity of the tibia. Gracilis. A muscle thus named, flat and thin, springs from the pubis (close to its symphysis), and is inserted by a tendon into the tibia beside the tuberosity. The pectineus passes from the ilio-pectineal line to the femur below the lesser trochanter. The adductores longus, brevis, and magnus, pass down- wards and outwards from the pubis to the femur, and are respectively inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera, into below the lesser trochanter, and into the whole length of the linea aspera down to the inner condyle. Three muscles, called the ham-string muscles, are—(1) the biceps femoris, which springs both from the femur and (by tendon) from the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the head of the fibula ; (2) the semi-tendinosus, which arises from the ischium in common with the last, and is inserted inside the tibia, below its tuberosity ; (3) the semi- membranosus, which springs from the tuberosity of the ischium (in front of the origin of the biceps), and is inserted triply, (a) into the tibia behind its inner tuberosity, (b) under the internal lateral ligament at the side of the inner tubero- sity, (c) into the external condyle of the femur. 13. The muscles of the leg consist in front of seven muscles. The tibialis anticus extends along the outer side of the tibia downwards from its outer tuberosity, and ends below in a tendon which is inserted into the ento-cuneiforme and first metatarsal. The extensor proprius hallucis arises from the fibula and the interosseous membrane connecting that bone with the tibia. Its tendon is inserted into the second phalanx of the great toe. The extensor longus digitorum pedis arises from the fibula