[less. ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. two little bulgings (or sacs) from the ventral side of the oesophageal part of the alimentary canal. These little sacs afterwards elongate, and ultimately come to hang by a single and common supporting tube. At first simple in structure, they gradually acquire the complicated condition which subsequently exists. 3. In the free suspension of the lungs in the thoracic cavity man agrees with all the other members of his class, but they may be fixed by cellular tissue to the dorsal side of that cavity, as in Birds and Chelonians. Similarly their enclosure in two pleurae is an exclusively Mammalian character. The lungs may, as in Batrachians and Saurians, hang into the general pleuro-peritoneal cavity, being completely invested (except at their roots) by the pleuro- peritoneal membrane; or they may lie on the dorsal side of that cavity, as in Birds and Chelonians, being coated by the pleuro-peritoneum on their ventral aspect only. Instead of being confined to the neighbourhood of the heart, as in man and his class, the lungs may extend to nearly the most post-axial part of the abdominal cavity, as in the Amphiuma and Siren. The lungs may each be single and undivided, as in Birds and Cetaceans ; or there may be as many as five lobes in the right lung (as in the Hamster and Marmot), and three in the left—or even six in the right and five in the left (as in the common Porcupine). Sometimes there is an azygos lobe proceeding from the right lung, and placed between the heart and the diaphragm, as in Ornithorhynchus. This may exist when the lungs are otherwise undivided, as in the Elephant. The right lung may be twice as large as the left, even in man's class, as in the Musk Deer and Porcupine. The lungs may be nearly equal in size, as in Frogs; they may, on the other hand, be still more unsymmetrically deve- loped than in the Musk Deer. This is the case in Serpents and Ophiomorpha ; and one lung may be quite rudimentary, as in the common Ring Snake ; or absent altogether, as in at least some kinds of Viper. The right lung may be much smaller than the left, as in the snake-like Batrachian Gymnophiona. As regards the minute structure of the lungs, man agrees with the whole of his class. The substance of these organs, however, may consist, as in Birds, of fine tubes (the walls of which are minutely sacculated), given off at right angles