viir.] THE MUSCLES. 289 from the sides of the larynx, from the cornua and cornicula of the hyoid, from the lower jaw and pterygoids, and meet together in the middle line behind the pharynx, where, at their summit, they are attached to the basi-occipital. The soft palate is formed with the help of five pairs of small muscles :—(1) the levator palati, descending from the petrous bone to meet its fellow of the opposite side, and also (2) the closely applied pair (miscalled azygos uvula;) which descend vertically from the palate; (3) the circumflexus palati, going from the pterygoid to the palate; (4) the palatoglossus, descending from the uvula outwards to the wall of the throat; and (5) the palato-pharyngeus, arching downwards and back- wards from the uvula so as to leave a gap between it and the palato-glossus. 6. The MUSCLES OF the BACK are arranged in successive layers. Beginning with the most superficial of these, we find a large sheet of muscle called the trapezius. This arises from the occiput, the dorsal spinous processes, and the ligamentum nuchas,1 and is inserted into the spine of the scapula, the acromion, and the outer third of the clavicle. The latissijnus dor si is a very large muscular sheet which arises from the spines of the sacral, lumbar, and six lowest dorsal vertebrae, and also from the ilium and some ribs. It converges to a narrow fasciculus, which is inserted, by a tendon, into the bicipital groove of the humerus. The rhomboideus goes from the spines of the lower cervi- cal and upper dorsal vertebras to the vertebral border of the scapula. The levator a7iguli scapulce arises from the diapophyses of the first three or four cervical vertebras, and goes to the postero-superior angle of the scapula. The serratus posticus superior is a flat thin muscle which springs by aponeurosis from the spinous process of the two or three upper dorsal vertebrae and from the ligamentum nuchas, and is inserted by fleshy digitations into the second, third, and fourth ribs. The serratus posticus inferior similarly arises from the spines of the last two dorsal and three upper lumbar vertebras, and is inserted (also by fleshy digitations) into the last four ribs. 1 This structure consists of a band of tendinous fibres extending backwards from.the cervical spinous processes, so as to form a partition between the neck- muscles of the two sides. It is attached above to the occiput, below to the Spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. U