319 VIII.] THE MUSCLES. . The muscles belonging to man's palatal region are special Mammalian muscles, and present in the class generally the. same disposition as in him. The pendulous palate becomes in the Cetacea a muscular canal prolonging the posterior nares to the elongated larynx which it embraces, 19. The MUSCLES of the back of man present characters, as exceptional, when compared with those of Vertebrates generally, as does his axial skeleton, The non-development of a tail and the large size of the upper extremities are occa- sions in him of muscular conditions which differ greatly from those presented by many other forms. Thus the first and second layers may be entirely wanting, and the other muscles may be represented (as in Menopoma and Menobranchus) by one great mass, running from the head to the end of the tail on each side of the vertebral neura- pophyses; and this again may be, as in Fishes {e.g. the Perch), divided by a number of aponeuroses more or less at right Fig. 288.—Superficial Muscles of the Perch. The fin-rays of all the fins are cut short off. 1, great lateral muscle, showing the numerous more or less vertical tendinous intersections slightly inflected forwards and backwards ; 2, small superficial muscles inserted into the fin-rays of the dorsal and ventral fins ; 4, slender longitudinal muscle running (in the interval of the summits of the two great lateral muscles) between the dorsal and caudal fins; 3, similar muscle on the ventral margin, which also appears between the anal and ventral fins ; 6, small radiating muscles of the caudal fin ; 7, part of the great lateral muscle inserted into the skull ; 8 and 9, elevators of the operculum ; 10, elevator of the palato- quadrate arch; it and 12, muscular mass which by its contraction closes the jaws; 13, superficial muscles of the pectoral fin; 14 and 15, muscles of the ventral fin. angles to the backbone, so that the dorsal muscular mass comes to consist not of segments extended in the line of the skeletal axis, but of segments extending almost at right angles to that axis. The muscles of the back may be much less developed, re- latively, than in man, as is the case in Birds; or they may be all but absent, as in Chelonians. They may, on the contrary,