TV.] SKELETON OF UPPER LIMB. 163 ture which it seemingly is, really represents some elements which properly belong to the coracoid, and other elements which may greatly increase both in size and complexity in other animals. At the same time its inconstancy is such that it may utterly abort, while the scapula and even the coracoid element are largely developed. 13. That important bone of the human skeleton, the HUMERUS, is constantly present in Vertebrates above Fishes, wherever there is an upper limb at all, although differing in size and shape. It never, however, seems to be present where there is no representative of the hand—in this respect, as we shall see, differing from the thighbone in the relation of the latter to the foot. In the lowest Vertebrates, i.e. in all Fishes, it is difficult to say what cer- tainly corresponds with the humerus of man, but very probably the several bones or cartilages which articulate with the coracoid and scapula (at the several glenoid surfaces before de- scribed) may be such representatives. In this case it may be said (1) either that several (two to five) bones or carti- lages together represent man's humerus, or (2) that each of these is in fact a rudi- mentary humerus, so that a fish has thus several humeri on each side. It is possible, however, that this bone (or perhaps the next limb segment—radius p m ^.-Cartilaginous and ulna) may be represented by a Skeleton of a Limb of single cartilage—as in Ceratodus. ' ^f)dus' (After Gfin" • Leaving, however, these members of T^e^'r eu er ieceart;cll the lowest Vertebrate class, we shall ilteswlSithe?imb root!" find that higher forms show the several parts of man's humerus to be capable of different degrees of development, yet that on the whole great variations are rare. As being the largest bone of the arm the humerus of man follows the general rule, but it may be much exceeded in size by a bone of the fore-arm, as in the Bat and Eagle, while its length may be quite insignificant compared with that of the entire limb, as in the Dolphin. Its length may, how- M 2