237 vii.] THE EXTERNAL SKELETON. supported by the elongated free and movable ribs before noticed, is found in the little Lizards called " Flying Dragons/' and a singular fold round the neck exists in the Frilled Lizard. A pouch beneath the throat and long filamentary (merely cutaneous) processes on the back exist in some other Lizards, as in adult male Iguanas. In the Seals a fold of skin connects together the hind legs and the tail; but the maxi- mum of skin expansion is found in Bats, as we may see in the common Bats of this country, Fig. 2o2.-The Frilled Lizard. where not only are the legs and tail bound together by a wide fold of skin, but this is continued on to and between the extraordinarily elongated fingers, to form the relatively enormous wings. Folds of skin hang freely in some animals, as e.g. the dewlap of cattle ; and peculiar folds are developed in the Rhinoceros, the thickness and denseness of the skin render- ing such folds necessary to allow of free movement of the body and limbs. The integument may be much more distensible than in man, as is the case especially in those Fishes (e.g. Diodon) I which blow themselves out with air and then float belly upwards. 4. The skin of man, as of all other Vertebrates, consists of two LAYERS : an external layer, devoid of nerves and blood-vessels (and consequently of feeling), and a deeper layer, supplied with both, and highly sensitive. The external layer is termed the epidermis,1 the deeper layer is called the dermis, At the lips the external layer visibly changes in i| texture, and inside the lips and mouth it becomes soft and moist, and is termed mucous2 membrane. This, however, is I a mere modified continuation of the external skin, and it ;!j lines the whole of the internal passages which communicate with the exterior. The superficial layer of the skin so reflected inwards is termed epithelium? which is thus but a modified epidermis, and the common term ecteron4 is applied to both structures, as the name enderon 5 is ap- plied to the] deeper or dermal layer (i.e. the dermis) where- ever situate. 1 From 67rt and ^ep^a, skin. 2 From /jlvkoc, /uv^a, any slimy substance. 3 From <?7ri and OdWco. to grow. 4 From e/c, out of, and depog, skin. 5 From kv, within, and (Sepog.