143 III.] THE CRANIAL SKELETON. capsule on each side of it, we are reminded of the permanent condition of the skull in the Lamprey. In that the trabecular cranii first diverge and then con- verge, meet, and so enclose what becomes the pituitary space, we find a temporary condition of which large traces remain even in adult Ophidians, where the cartilaginous trabecular persist as two rods, one on each side of the para-sphenoid. Fig. 121.—The Skull, Anterior part of Spinal Column, and Bran- chial Basket of the Lamprey. {From Miiller and Owen.') zm, auditory capsule ; b, cartilaginous basket, connected above with the side of the vertebral column, with seven complete and descending arches united by- transverse bands (between which the gill-openings are seen) and sheltering the heart and pericardium at the part where the letter b is placed; e, ethmo- vomerine cartilage ; //, rudiment of the hyoid ; n, neural arches ; P, palato- quadrate (or pterygo-palatine) arch, the hinder pier of which represents the buspensorium, though there is no lower jaw. Before the development of the third visceral arch we have I the permanent condition of the Lamprey, which is always destitute of a mandible; and when, in man, the visceral arches ! successively arise, we have transitorily represented the piscine condition, where the solid axes of seven or more such arches form the mandible, the hyoidean arch, and the successive I branchial or gill-bearing arches. ! In the development of the palatal, or second visceral arch, there is sketched out a condition permanent in Sharks, where the lower jaws bite against a cartilaginous pterygo-palatine ; arcade which takes the place of an as yet undeveloped bony upper jaw. This condition is essentially similar to the struc- ture of the Sturgeon, where a comparatively minute pair ot ! jaws (mandibular and pterygo-palatine respectively) are suspended at the end of a disproportionately large suspen- sorial structure. In that stage of the human skull which precedes ossification I we have a reminder of the exclusively cartilaginous structure of certain Fishes. In the distinct ossific origin of the elements of the petrous