IL] 55 THE SPINAL SKELETON. and forms a conspicuous plate, as e.g. in the Ox and Dog; and even in the Dolphin, where the cervical vertebras are such thin plates of bone, the same root is suddenly enlarged. In no animal but man does the spine of this vertebra ever bifurcate. The SEVENTH vertebra sometimes in man has its transverse process imperforate, by the non-development of its capitular root. This condition, abnormal in him, is normal but not universal in the rest of his class. In other Mammals, as also in man, a short free rib may be attached to the transverse process of this vertebra; and where, as in the Three-toed Sloth, I the number of vertebrae is nine, it is the eighth and ninth vertebrae which resemble in structure the sixth and seventh of | man—thus showing that in this animal it really is the cervical vertebrae which are increased in number, and not that the condition has been produced by the first two dorsal ribs being imperfectly developed. 29. The coalescence and degradation which characterize the SACRAL VERTEBRA generally occur more or less in Verte- brates above the Ichthyopsida, which possess fully developed limbs. The coalescence is generally less extensive than in man, though sometimes (as in Birds, some Edentates, and some Reptiles) it is much greater. The sacrum of man is indeed a peculiar structure as regards the coexistence of characters each of which, taken separately, is shared by some or other members of his own class and order. The characters of which the coexistence is peculiar to him are: (1) The very marked sacro-vertebral angle. (2) The trans- verse and axial concavity of the ventral surface of the sacrum. (3) The concurrence of as many as five, or even six verte- brae in its formation—three of them generally contributing to form the auricular surface. (4) Its relative breadth, and the gradual way in which it narrows post-axially without any sudden contraction. (5) The large size of the foramina. \ (6) The small development of the spinous and other processes. This region may, however, be more exceptional and pecu- i liar than in man, as e.g. in the Rhea, where the vertebral inter- space between the haunch bones is filled by a very narrow continuous ossification without a trace of division into vertebrae. The sacrum of man may be looked at from two points of view, and it is very difficult to determine what parts really answer to it in many animals.