476 ELEMENTARY AX ATOMY. [les as is the case in the Lancelet. This, however, is a solita exception. In all other cases the water is mechanical propelled by muscular contractions, and so made to pass ov delicate filaments or sheets (lamellae) of membrane attache to a greater or less number of the visceral arches. We may have (as in Myxine and in Bdellostoma) the git in the form of a folded lining to six or seven pouches place in a linear series on each side of the bodv, each pouch con municating with the interior of the oesophagus bv an apertur and thence receiving water. Each sac may open on tf surface of the body by a separate aperture (as in Bdellostov, and in the Lamprey), or each sac may open into a tut running along each side of the body external to the sacs. an. terminating by an aperture placed far back on the ventn surface of the body (as in Myxine). In the latter case tr water coming from the sacs passes out at one aperture on eac side of the body. The sacs may open internally, not into the oesophagus bv into a median canal placed ventrally to the oesophagus (as i the Lamprey). This canal ends blindly at its post-axial en< but pre-axially opens into the mouth by a valvular aperture. These gill-sacs are not supported bv solid viscera (branchial) arches internally, but may be, as in the Lamprc protected externally by a cartilaginous framework or baskc Fig. 401.—Skeleton of Head and Gills of Lamprey. hinder part of the external (paraxial) cartilaginous skeleton of the gills ; an auditor}' capsule ; hyoid ; m, neural arches ; /, palato-quadrate arch.' which, as we saw in Lesson VI., is a paraxial, skeleta structure. The several gill-sacs are separated from each other b} partitions which are not solid, cartilaginous structures. The gills may be supported internally by solid (osseous oil cartilaginous) " branchial arches,"' which, as we have seen ir treating of the skeleton, are those visceral arches which suc- ceed the hyoidean and mandibular arches post-axially.