ELEMENT A R Y ANA TOMY. [less. 47° Fig. 396.—Syrinx of a Raven. rt, b, and c, three bony- structures. agents of song. Their action is modified by special muscles. Generally there are two pairs of muscles passing from the clavicles or sternum to the trachea ; and in addition to these may be five or six pairs of muscles pass- ing down from the trachea to the bron- chial rings. These additional muscles are present in singing birds, but also in many birds that do not sing, as e.g. the Raven. There may be no membrana semi- lunaris, and only three pairs of additional muscles, in birds highly gifted as to their powers of emitting special sounds. Such is the case in the Parrots, where, however, the lateral elastic folds of membrane are well developed. A syrinx may be formed by the trachea only (without the intervention of the bronchi), as in Thamnophilus and Opetio- rhynchus, where the post-axial part of the trachea has delicate walls, and is flattened dorso-ventrally with six or seven deli- cate segments of rings, the rings being interrupted laterally. The additional muscles here pass from the part of the trachea above (pre-axial to) the syrinx to the tracheal ring beyond it. A syrinx may be formed in each bronchus (without the intervention of the trachea), as in Steatornis, where more than ten rings in each bronchus may be counted before reaching the syrinx, and where a pair of muscles passes to each bronchus from the trachea. Bronchi may be absent together with the trachea, as in the common Frog and Toad. They may be absent though a trachea is present, as in Siren. They may open at once into the lung, without ramifying, as in Ophidians. They may traverse the lung, soon losing their car- tilaginous rings, and having apertures in each side leading into the large pouch-like air-cells of the lungs, as in the Crocodile. They may similarly enter the lungs and lose their rings, but give off secondary branches at right Fig. 397.—Right Lung of a Goose. {After Owen.) a, bronchus ; b, b, openings into air-sac?. In the two bronchi which are cut open are seen the apertures of their primary branches.