425 X.] THE CIRCULATING SYSTEM. meseraic veins, but also sends a branch directly to the sinus venosus. Then the combined omphalo-meseraic and umbilical veins break up into the portal circulation—the branch direct from the latter to the sinus remaining however for a time as the ductus venosus. The part of the omphalo-meseraic vein near the heart which persists undivided thus, becomes the hepatic vein. In the meantime the vena cava inferior arises as a large median vein (superficial to the aorta), receiving accessions from the pelvic limbs and from the kidneys. It intrudes, as it were, upon the hepatic veins, and gives its name to the vein directly entering the heart, into which the hepatic vein is described as opening in the adult. After a time the posterior cardinal veins become discon- tinuous with the anterior ones, and grow into and become the azygos veins. The anterior cardinal veins become the jugular and inno- minate veins. The left ductus Cuvieri aborts, and the left anterior cardinal vein proceeds to join the right ductus Cuvieri; the united trunk is thus transformed into the vena cava superior. While the sinus venosus becomes indistinguishably united with the right auricle, the ductus venosus becomes ob- literated, so that all the blood from the stomach and intestines passes into the portal circulation on its way to the heart. In the meantime the umbilical vein (which is, as it were, the root of the portal and primitive hepatic veins) in part aborts, becoming mere fibrous cord ; in part, however, it persists, namely as the small internal iliac vein. Concomitantly the vena cava inferior greatly increases in relative size, as also do its roots—the external iliacs. No veins are, on their way to the heart, re-distributed in the kidneys in the same way that the portal vein is in the liver. 10. Turning now to the general condition of the venous system, we find that the, main conditions existing in adult man are those of his class, but that there may be certain .variations as to the union of the larger trunks, and also as I regards the presence of venous retia mirabili'a—similar to \ those already noticed with respect to the arterial portion of the circulating system. These retia seem to attain their maximum in the abdo- j. minal region of Cetaceans, e.g. the Porpoise. The two I azygos veins may be much more equal in size than in man,