[less, 136 ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. In this way the peculiarly expanded condition of the cerebral chamber of man may be appreciated. Taking the basi-cranial axis as a fixed line for comparison with other animals, we see that in him (Fig. 91) the cerebral chamber is of great vertical extent, at the same time that its anterior portion is so expanded as to open out the olfactory angle from 900 to much beyond 1800, and to similarly open out the occipital angle—circumstances in which man widely differs from even the highest members of his class and even of his order. In the fact that the inside of the arch of the skull is marked by depressions corresponding with the cerebral convolutions/ man agrees with those members of his class which possess such convolutions. For in that class the cranium closely invests the brain, so that a cast of its cavity well exhibits the general features of the cerebral surface. This character, however, is by no means universal in the Vertebrates, for the cerebral cavity does not contract with the lessening pro- portions of the cranial nervous centres, there being {e.g. in Fishes) a large quantity of soft fatty substance interposed between those centres and the cranial walls. The cranial cavity in man overhangs the orbits, but does not descend between them. This is a condition which obtains very often, but by no means universally ; for that cavity may be not only prolonged between the orbits, but considerably beyond them. We find this in Serpents, in Batrachians, and in many Fishes {e.g. the Carp family), while in Birds, Lizards, Crocodiles, and Chelonians the cranial cavity suddenly contracts, and there is an interorbital septum only. The middle of the dome of the skull may be produced in- wards as a median, longitudinal, bony plate by ossification of the falx. This is the case e.g. in the Ornithorhynchus and in the Sea Lion. An ossified tentorium may exist, as in some Spider Monkeys, in the Racoon, and others. The base of the interior of the skull may present those differences already noticed in describing the several cranial bones. In man's class it is divisible into the same three fossae as in him. This division, however, is not similarly marked in lower forms. (1) The anterior fossa is relatively much less extensive in man than it is in most animals. Even in the Apes the 1 For these see Lesson VIII.