1 xii.] THE EXCRETORY ORGANS. 483 imbedded in the depressions of the under surface of the sacrum, which is so expanded in the entire class Aves. A condition of the kidneys analogous to that which at an early period exists in man, may not only persist throughout life in other animals, but may be much more complete, as in the Seals and Cetacea, where the kidneys are so divided into small lobes as to resemble a bunch of grapes. As many as 200 lobes have been counted in the Dolphin's kidney. 11. Two small glandular bodies, of unknown function, called supra-renal capsules, are placed one on the summit of each kidney. Each capsule is a flattened, tri- angular body, and shaped something like a cocked hat. It is formed of cellular tissue, often mixed with much fat, and provided with a fibrous coat which sends processes into the interior of the gland, these processes accompanying blood- vessels and nerves, which are numerous. These organs exist in all the members of man's class, and in a general way resemble his in position and form. They are relatively largest in Rodents, as in the Coypu and Por- cupine, where they are cylindrical in form. They are relatively smallest in the Cetacea amongst Mam- mals, where, as also in Seals, they exhibit a lobulated exterior like that of the kidney itself. In Birds these organs are relatively smaller, being in the Goose only about the size of a pea. They also vary more in shape in Birds than in man's class, and sometimes become confluent. They are usually, in Birds, placed on the inner side of the kidneys. The supra-renal capsules may be in the form, of a single, elon- gated, narrow, lobulated body, situate behind the renal organ, as mostly in Sharks ; or may appear as a yellow streak on the ventral aspect of the urinary gland, as in the Frog and Toad. Each supra-renal capsule may be divided into a greater or less number of lobules, as in some Urodeles, the Sturgeon, and many Fishes. 12. The spleen of man has been noticed in the Fifth Lesson of " Elementary Physiology," ยง 28. It is a ductless body, of irregular and variable shape, richly supplied with blood-vessels, and lying beneath the diaphragm at the car- diac end of the stomach. In the possession of a spleen man agrees with all other Vertebrata, with the exception of the Lancelet, and possibly also with the exception of the Marsipobranchii^ Lepidosiren% and Ceratodus. I I 2