THE CRANIAL SKELETON 133 HI.] bony cheek may, in man's own class, offer defects of ossifica- tion, as in the Hare, or enormous prominences enclosing a chamber, as in the Paca, or great swollen tuberosities, as in the Mandrill. The anterior nares may be so high up as to approach the summit of the skull, as we see in Cetacea. They may present a very large aperture, as in the Tapir. They may be widely separated one from the other in the middle line, as is the case in mosj: animals below Mammals, but not in all, as J we see in Chelonians and Crocodiles, which have a median, single nasal opening, as in man's own class. As regards the lateral regions of the skull of man :— (1) The temporal part may be roofed over and hidden from view by plate-like processes extending out from the adjacent bones, and which, meeting, enclose the temporal fossa and I muscle, giving the skull a fictitious appearance of great ca- pacity. This is the case in the Turtle, the African Rodent Lophiomys, and in the Frog Pelobates. (2) The mastoid part can hardly with propriety be so called in lower forms, where the mastoid process becomes much smaller or aborts altogether. The meatus auditorius externus may in the adults of very II high animals {e.g. the American Apes) be replaced by a wide, || nearly circular opening, as in the human skull at birth. The (jsame meatus may be directed much upwards and more or Iless backwards, as in the Hare. No such part exists in the : skulls of Fishes. (3) The zygomatic part may in man's own class present I very considerable differences from the structure which exists in him, and more considerable still in lower forms. Thus a zygomatic arch may be wanting, as in Centetes, the II Ant-eaters, and Mams, Both the anterior and posterior parts I of that arch may be well developed, and nevertheless may fail to effect a junction, as is the case in the Sloths and their ! extinct allies; or a junction may be formed by the help of a jprocess of the frontal, as in the Horse. ; In forms below Mammalia (as e.g. in Birds, the Crocodile, &c.) we often find a zygoma formed by the help of a bone j termed the quadrato-jugal, which connects the malar in front of it with that bone which supports the lower jaw, and which is termed the quadrate. Besides this zygomatic arch a second land superior zygoma may exist (as in most Lizards and in I some Birds, e.g. the Macaw " Calyptorhynchus"), formed by li the union of the squamous or zygomatic element of the tern-