II] 57 THE SPINAL SKELETON, or five, though when that bony element which we shall find to be called the ischium also effects a bony union, the num- ber may be raised to ten—as in some Armadillos. When the osteological sacrum embraces as many as twenty (as in the Ostrich), then the lumbar vertebrae are encroached on by the extent of the hip-bones. Coccygeal | vertebrae indeed may take an extensive share in it, as in some ! Edentates and Bats, where the osteological sacrum not only unites with the so-called ilium, but also anchyloses with the | bone which is commonly termed the ischium. The possession of a true osteological sacrum is a character | man shares only with Vertebrates above Fishes. Very rarely, however, as in the Turbot, there is in Fishes even a kind of false sacrum, formed by the anchylosis of the bodies and ventral spines of the first two coccygeal vertebrae. Compared with his own class only, man exhibits a sacrum which includes a number of vertebrae attained by few others, and but rarely exceeded, though sometimes there are six in the highest Apes. The number may reach eight, or even (as before said) ten in certain Armadillos ; but this is the highest , number of man's class, though about the smallest number found in the class of Birds, where, as we have seen, there may be as many as twenty. Apart from union with the hip-bones, coccygeal vertebrae become anchylosed with the true sacrum in Mammals with the advance of age, so as to form altogether four or five sacral vertebrae. That the development of the sacrum is not always in proportion to that of the pelvic limbs, is proved by the little lizard Seps, in which, in spite of the rudimentary con- dition of the limbs, there are three sacral vertebrae. The sacro-vertebral angle is generally replaced by almost a straight line, and it is not nearly so marked in any Mammals as in man, except in some Baboons. The concavity of its ventral surface, which is so variable in man himself, is generally much less marked in other Mam- mals, but sometimes it is quite as great, as in certain Baboons. The tapering form of the sacrum of man is also exceptional, but it exists in the highest Apes, in Bears, and some other Mammals. Generally, however, in man's class the sacrum contracts suddenly at its post-axial end. The wing-like processes (the sacral ribs) make it relatively wider than long in most Mammals. The sacral spinous processes of man are but rudiments of what sometimes exist, as they are very long in Carnivora and