vi.] GENERAL VIE W OF INTERNAL SKELETON. 219 Generally the axis of the skeleton (i.e. the backbone) con- sists of a number of segments (vertebrae) which are serially homologous one with another. 7. From this axis we have seen corresponding arches (carti- laginous or osseous) to arise and enclose the spinal marrow, which is the central part of the nervous system of the trunk. They also are serial homologues (homotypes) one of another ; and such arches, as they extend above the axis, have been called epaxial1 arches. In man such arches are wanting (as bony structures) in part of the sacral and in the coccygeal regions ; yet we have seen how numerous and complete they may be in those regions in other animals. 8. We have seen also that a number of arcs may extend out from the central axis on each side, and that these may descend and meet in the middle line below, so as to form a series of large ventral arches enclosing the body cavity. They also are homotypes one of another ; and such arches, as they extend from the sides of the backbone, have been called paraxial* arches. In man such arches are complete only in the thorax, where the lateral arcs, each composed of a rib and cartilage, are medianly united by the help of the sternum. It is evident, however, that these arcs may be much more extensively developed in regions where they are wanting in man, as e.g. in the cervical vertebrae of the Crocodile, and in the anterior coccygeal vertebrae of some Chelonians and of Menobranchus. 9. Each paraxial arc, however, has been seen very gene- rally to have two attachments to the backbone—one above, the other below, i.e. one more dorsal than the other. In man we have the transverse process and tubercle of the rib placed dorsally ; and the surface for the head of the rib, the head itself and the neck, more ventrally. In other cases, e.g* Menobranchus, we find a distinct dorsal (or tubercular) process, and a more ventral (or capitular) process, giving attachments respectively to the diverging branches of a Y-shaped rib. Sometimes we have seen the ribs bifurcate distally as well as proximally, as in Salamandra ; and sometimes, as in certain Fishes, e.g. the Tunny and Polypterus, there are two series of ribs on each side, one above the other. We may thus distinguish two series of paraxial parts on each side, one made up of tubercular processes (or 1 'Eni, uppn (the skeletal axis), 2 Uapa, beside {the axis).