vi.] GENERAL VIE W OE INTERNAL SKELE TON. 231 all directed outwards, the thumb being turned forwards (pre- axially), and the little finger of course at the opposite side of the hand. The arm being placed in this position, and a line drawn from the limb root to the tip of the middle finger, all that is in front (man being supposed to be in the hori- zontal attitude of a quadruped) of such a line is called ftre-axial, all that is behind it post-axial^ directions corre- sponding with those already indicated by the same term with regard to the backbone. 20. The skeleton of the fore-arm and hand is divisible into a tri- and a bi-digital series, placed side by side. Thus there is, first, the radius; the scaphoides and lunare ; the trapezium, the trapezoides, and the magnum ; the first, second, and third metacarpals ; and the annexed digits— forming the tri-digital series. We have, secondly, the ulna ; the cuneiforme ; the fourth and fifth metacarpals ; and the corresponding digits—form- ing the bi-digital series. Such being some of the leading points in the skeletal struc- ture of the pectoral or thoracic limbs, what now are the resemblances to them exhibited by the pelvic limbs, and what the differences ? 21. The pelvic limbs in man are suspended, as we have seen, from a complete bony girdle firmly attached to the backbone on the dorsal aspect, its two sides meeting together uninterruptedly (at the pubic symphysis) on the ventral aspect. Fig. 199.—Transverse Section of the Pelvic Region of Man. showing the relation borne by the appendicular skeleton (ossa innominata) to the axial skeleton : the latter is represented by the black parts of the figure. n, neural canal ; s, neural spine; ac, abdominal cavity ; p, pubis ; sy, symphysis of the pubes; il, ilium ; _/", head of the femur. Here, then, we have a great difference between the limb- girdles. This however disappears when man's pelvic girdle is compared with the pectoral girdle of the Ray (R. clavata), which is similar to the human pelvis in its relations to the axial system ; while in most Fishes the pelvic girdle is com- plete below only, but not at all above, thus resembling the pectoral girdle of man. Instead of a union on the ventral aspect by the intervention