[less. ELEMENTARY ANATOMY. The eye muscles may. attain a prodigious length, as in the Hammer-headed Shark, where they arise from the basis cranii and extend the whole length of the prolonged lateral processes which support the eyeballs at their ends. There may be a distinct depressor of the lower eyelid, and in addition to this, other muscles may be developed in con- nexion with the third eyelid, which is of large size in so many animals, notably in Birds. The third eyelid may be furnished with a muscle which, arising from the temporal side of the orbit, passes through a muscular and ligamentous loop, and is inserted into the third eyelid's inferior margin. This muscle may be, as in the Frog, furnished with a tendon which forms a loop over the conical muscular mass of the eyeball, so thit when that muscle swells by the retraction of the eyes the loop ne:essarily contracts, and thus moves the eyelid. It may be, as in the Crocodile, that the muscle of the third eyelid takes origin from the upper and inner part of the eye- ball, and, passing downwards round the conical muscle and optic nerve, reaches the lower angle of the third eyelid. Finally, as is the case in Birds, it may spring from the lower, nasal side of the eyeball and end in a tendon which proceeds to its insertion as in the Crocodile, except that it passes through a pulley formed by the tendinous sheath of a second muscle (the quadratics nictitantis) which arises from the sclerotic at its upper and back part, and ends in forming the sheath aforesaid. As in Birds there is no conical muscle, this quadrate one is probably its representative. Another muscle may also exist, as in the Frog, forming a sort of fleshy sheet on which the eyeball rests, and which protrudes the eyeball by its contraction. 17. As to the MUSCLES OF THE NECK. The sterno-cleido-mastoid of man really represents what are two muscles in many other animals, viz. a sterno-mastoid and a cleido-mastoid. Nevertheless it may be a single muscle even in Reptiles, as in the Iguana. The sterno-mastoid may be wanting altogether, as in Birds and Batrachians. The cleido-mastoid may also be. wanting, and it may, as in the Horse (by suppression of the clavicle and uninterrupted union with the deltoid or pectoralis), extend directly from the skull to the humerus as a cephalo-humeral, or even to the ulna, as in Hyrax. In cold-blooded Vertebrates this muscle may be attached to