[LESS. 70 ELEMENTARY ANA TO MY, In the Whalebone Whales after the first few ribs the " heads " and " necks " entirely disappear, the more post-axial ribs being attached by their " tubercles " only. The peculiar proportions of the head and tubercle of the ribs in man are not universal, but seem to be special modifica- tions of a more primitive type, such as exists in the Ichthyo- saurus and in some Tailed-Batrachians, In them the rib divides at its proxi- mal end into two diverging and equal processes, the upper of which (answering to the tubercle of man) articulates with the dorsal, or tubercular, transverse pro- cess, while the lower (answering to the neck and head of man's rib) articulates with the ventral, or capitular, transverse process. In some other Tailed-Batra- chians the proximal end of the rib bears a double facet, and articulates with a similarly facetted transverse process, which thus evidently answers to an upper and a lower transverse process united into one. The relation borne by these articular surfaces to the neuro- central suture is not constant. Sometimes, as in man, the "head" articulates mainly above that suture ; sometimes, as in Monotremes, altogether below it. In Ichthyosaurus both surfaces are attached altogether below that junction, while in Plesiosaurus the point of attachment rises as we proceed backwards. The class of Fishes shows what abnormalities are possible with respect to the modes of attachment of the ribs, as in Batrachus they have a more and more dorsal origin, until, at the anterior end of the body, they are actually attached to the neural spines ! That double attachment which exists in man between the proximal end of the rib and two vertebras is not universal. Thus in Birds it is only the last rib, or the last but one, which is attached to the point of junction of two adjacent vertebral bodies. The greater breadth of the first rib of man is a character frequently found in his class and sometimes much exaggerated, as in the Great Armadillo. Often in Mammals, and in lower forms generally, it is only of similar breadth to those post- axial to it. The greater curvature in man of the first rib is a character Fig. 79.—Vertebra of Axolotl. s, neural spine ; d, tuber- cular process support- ing the dorsal bifurca- tion of rib ; py capitular process supporting ventral bifurcation of rib.