ANTRUM. Indeed, he should limit his interference to pre- venting the lodgment of matter, maintaining strict cleanliness, and removing the dead pieces of bone, as soon as they become loose. But, it is to be understood, that there are occasional ex- amples, in which the dead portions of bone are so tedious of separation, and so wedged in the substance of the surrounding living bone, that an attempt may properly be made to cut them away. TUMORS OF THE ANTRUM. Ruysch, Bordenave, Desault, Abernethy, Weinhold, and others, have recorded cases of polypous, fungous, and cancerous diseases of the antrum, and examples of this cavity being af- fected w ith exostosis. The indolence of any ordinary fleshy tumor in the antrum, while in an incipient state, certainly tends to conceal its existence; but such a disease rarely occurs without being accompanied with some affection of the neighbouring parts; and hence, its presence may generally be ascertained before it has attained such a size as to have al- tered in a serious degree the natural shape of the antrum. This information may be acquired, by examining whether any of the teeth have become loose, or have spontaneously fallen out; whether the alveolary processes are sound, and whether there are any fungous excrescences making their appearance at the sockets, whe- ther there is any habitual bleeding from one side of the nose; any sarcomatous tumor at the side of the nostril, or towards the great angle of the eye. Y\ hen the swelling, how- ever, has attained a certain size, the bony pa- rietes of the antrum always protrude, unless the body ot the tumor should be situated in the nos- tril, and only its root in the antrum. This case, however, is very uncommon. As soon as a tumor is certainly known to exist in the antrum, the front part of this cavity should be opened, without waiting till the disease makes further progress. In a few instances, indeed, we may avail ourselves of the opening, which is some- times found in the alveolary process, and enlarge it sufficiently to allow the tumor to be extirpated. If the front of the antrum were freely opened, it would in general be better to cut away the dis- ease in its interior. A swelling of the parietes of the antrum, in consequence of an abscess, or a sarcomatous tu- mor in its cavity, may lead us to suppose the case an enlargement of the bones, or an exostosis. The symptoms of the two first affections have been already detailed. One sign of an exostosis, besides the absence of the symptoms character- izing an abscess or a sarcoma, is the thickened parietes of the antrum forming a solid resist- ance ; whereas, in cases of mere expansion, the dimensions of-the surface of the hone being in- creased, while its substance is rendered propor- tionally thinner, the resistance is not so consi- derable. W hen such an exostosis depends upon a par- ticular constitutional cause, and especially upon one of a venereal nature, it must be attacked by remedies suited to this affection. But when the disease resists internal remedies, and its magni- tude is likely to produce an aggravation of the case, a portion of the bone may be removed with a trephine, or a cutting instrument. Such opera- tions, however, require a great deal of delicacy and prudence. Mr. B. Bell, vol. 4, describes a kind of ex- ostosis of the upperjaw, very different from what I have mentioned, since instead of its being distinguishable from other diseases of the antrum by the greater firmness of the tumor, the sub- stance of the bone-'gradually acquires such sup- pleness and elasticity, that it yields to the pres- sure of the fingers, and immediately resumes its former plumpness when the pressure is discon- tinued. If the bone be cut, it is found to be as soft as cartilage, and, in an advanced stage of the disease, its consistence is almost gelatinous. The swelling increases gradually, and extends equally over the whole cheek, without becoming prominent at any particular point, or only so in the latter periods of the malady, when the soft parts inflame, and become affected. The com- plaint is described as totally incurable. Cutting and trephining the tumor, as recommended in other cases of exostosis, only aggravate the pa- tient’s unhappy condition. Mr. Abernethy has related an account of a very singular disease of the antrum. The pa- tient, who was thirty-four years of age, when the account was written, perceived, when about ten years old, a small tumor on his left cheek, which gradually attained the size of a walnut, and then remained for some time stationary. About a year afterwards, the tumor having again enlarged, a caustic was applied to the integuments, so as to expose the bone. The actual cautery was next applied, and an opening thus made into the an- trum. After the exfoliation, the antrum became filled with a fungus, which rose out upon the cheek, and could not be restrained by anv ap- plications. Part of the fungus also made its way into the mouth, through the socket of the second tricuspid tooth, the other teeth remaining natural. The disease continued in this state nine years, occasionally bleeding in an alarming way. When the patient was in his twentieth year, the whole fungus sloughed away during a fever, and never returned After this, the sides of the aperture in the bone began to grow outwards, forming an ex- ostosis, which rapidly attained to a great magni- tude. A small exostosis took place in the mouth, but became no larger than a horsebean. The ex- ostosis of the maxillary bone was of an irregular figure, and projected from the whole circum- ference of the aperture a great way directly for- ward. Mr. Abernethy compared its appearance, when he was writing, with that of a large tea-cup fastened upon the"face, the bottom of which may be supposed to communicate with the antrum. The diameter of the cup. formed by the circular edge of ‘the bone, was three inches and a hall ; the depth two inches and seven-eighths. The general height of the sides of the exostosis, from the basis of the face, was two inches; its walls were not thick, and terminated in a thin circular edge. The integuments, as they approached this edge, became thinner, and they extended over the edge into the cavity. The exostosis now reached to the nose in front, and to the masseter muscle behind ; above it included the very ridge of the orbit, and below it grew from the edge of the alveolary process. A line that would have se- parated the diseased from the sound bone would