CDS INFLAMMATION. but, almost every theory lias been built upon the supposition of there being some kind of obstruc- tion in the inflamed part. bile the circulation of the blood was un- known, and the hypothetical notions of the power of the liver, in preparing and sending forth this f'uid, continued to prevail, physicians were so fully persuaded of the existence and influence of different humors and spirits, and so little did they know of the regular arid constant motion of the blood, that they believed in the possibility of de- positions and congestions of the blood, the bile, or lymph; and acknowledged these as the cause of inflammation. Their anatomists taught them, and their professors of physic supported the opi- nion, that the liver was the centre of the vascu- lar system, from which the blood went forth by day to the extremities, and returned again by night. If then any peccant matter irritated the liver, the blood was sent out more forcibly; and if, at the same time any part of the body were weakened, or otherwise disposed to receive a greater quantity of fluid than the rest, then a swelling was produced by the flow of humours to this place. Fluxions, or flows of humour to a place, might happen either from weakness of the part which allowed the humours to enter more abundantly, or from the place attracting the hu- mours, in consequence of the application of heat or other agents. The peculiar nature of the swelling was supposed to depend upon the kind of humour. Blood produced the true phlegmon ; bile, erysipelas; &c. An idea was also enter- tained, that the blood and humours might slowly stagnate in apart, from a want of expulsive power, and this affection was termed a congestion, while the expression fluxion or defluxion was used to denote any swelling arising from the sudden flow of humours from a distant part. (J. Burns, Dissertations on Inflammation.) From the theories of fluxion and congestion, which were quite incompatible with the laws of the circulation of the blood, we turn our attention to the doctrine of obstruction. Boerhaave inculcated, (Aph. 575 cl scq.) that inflammation was caused by an obstruction to the free circulation of the blood in the minute ves- sels, and this obstruction, he supposed, might be caused by heat, diarrhoea, too copious flow of urine, and sweat, or whatever could dissipate the thinner parts of the blood, and produce a thick- ness or viscidity of that fluid. When the lentor did not exist before the production of inflamma- tion, he imagined, that the larger globules of the blood, passed into the small vessels, and thus plugged them up. This circumstance was termed an error loci. The obstruction, whether caused by viscidity or an error loci, was imagined to occasion a resistance to the circulation in the part affected ; and hence, an increase of the flow of the blood in the other vessels, an irritation of the heart, and augmentation of the force, or at- traction of the blood in that part of the vessel which was behind the obstruction. This caused heat and pain, while the accumulation of the blood produced redness. Boerhaave also brought into the account an acrimonious state of the fluids, which rendered resolution out of the question, and gangrene likely to follow. {Aph. 588.) '1 he viscidity of the blood cannot be admitted as the proximate cause of inflammation; because we have no proof, that this state ever exists; or, granting that it did, it would not explain thq phenomena. Were a viscidity to occur, i would exist in the whole mass of blood, woulc I affect every part of tbe body alike, and coult not be supposed to produce only a local disorder | How also could such a lentor be produced b\ causes which bring on inflammation suddenly] without there being time for changes of the fluid* to take place? With regard to the doctrine of error loci, oil of red globules going into vessels, which did not} formerly transmit them, tbe fact must be admit-] ted, at the same time, that the conclusion is de^l nied. When the eye becomes inflamed, the tu- nica conjunctiva is seen with its vessels full of red! blood, which in health is not the case; but this redness never appears until the inflammation has commenced, and must therefore be considered as an effect, not a cause. Nor can this error loci occasion any obstruction in these vessels ; for, if, they be divided, the blood flows freely, which i shews, that they are large enough to allow au j easy circulation. (./. Burns.) Boerhaave’s theory of obstruction was too j circumscribed, and too mechanical; it reduced ; all inflammations to one species: the onlv di- stinctions which could have arisen, must have proceeded from the nature of the obstruction itself; and it was a doctrine that never could ac- count for the action of many specific diseases and morbid poisons. (Hunter.) As for tbe supposition of the co-operation of an acrimony of the fluids, the proportion of the saline matter of tbe blood has never been proved to be greater in this, than in any other state of the body. (Burns.) Even were a general dis- order of this kind to be admitted, no rational ex- planation of the proximate cause of local inflam- mation could be deduced from it. The decided impossibility of giving a rational explanation of tbe immediate cause of inflamma- tion by any supposed state of the blood alone, led pathologists to investigate how far a change in the blood-vessels themselves might account for the process. It belongs more properly to a phy- siological, than a surgical work to explain the va- rious facts and experiments in support of the opinion, that the arterial tubes, and especially the capillaries, possess a high degree of vital con- tractility, whereby the motion of the fluids in them, tiie process of secretion, and other local phenomena may be importantly affected, in a manner not at all explicable, by reference only to tbe action and power of tbe heart. For such information, I would particularly advise the reader to consult the publications of Dr. Wilson Philip, and Dr. Hastings. According to the' latter gentleman, the actual agency of the ca- pillary vessels, “ is not only supported bv such experiments as those related, it is also counte- nanced by an extensive series of phenomena pre- sented during disease in the human subject. Of these may be mentioned, irregular determinations of blood, tbe growth of tumors, increased pulsa- tion of arteries leading to inflamed parts, of which the following is a well-marked example, the ac- curacy of which may be entirely relied upon. I :