POLYPUS. 934 vagina, it occasions a prolapsus uteri without in- version, in addition to the other inconveniences. Experience proves, that uterine polypi, when once extirpated, ihave not that propensity to be reproduced, which those of the nose have. Plere, for obvious reasons, extraction is not the right practice. Sometimes, however, uterine polypi are met with, which have such a thin and soft pedicle, that, although they ought not to be pulled out, they admit of being twisted off with facility and safety. Also, numerous com- plaints of a serious nature are occasionally the result of tying a polypus of the uterus. In this circumstance, after the ligature has been ap- plied some days, an attempt may be made to shorten such complaints, by twisting off the tu- mor altogether. This object is most conve- niently performed with a pair of forceps, made something like Smellie’s midwifery forceps. As the part of the polypus in the ligature is con- stricted, thin, and already partly detached, the tumor, with a little caution, may frequently be easily twisted offj without any material bleed- ing- The ligature is the most proper means of ex- tirpating uterine polypi, and is here much more easy of application, than in the nose. Large as the polypus may be, there is always abundance of room for the introduction of the necessary in- struments. The polypus of the uterus has, com- monly, a thinner pedicle, than that of the nose ; hence, its cure by the ligature is more expedi- tious; and on account of the greater room, and more yielding nature of the parts, the swelling of the tumor, after the ligature is applied, pro- length, and as thick as an ordinary writing pen. : duces less inconvenience, than in the same mode Both are curved about as much as the os sa- of treatment of nasal polypi. The inconveniences crum ; but, as they are made of pure silver, the which do arise, are easy of removal; for instance, curvature may easily be increased or diminished, the retention of urine may be relieved by the according to circumstances. Through each of catheter; costiveness by glysters, &c. Uterine the cannulae a strong ligature is to be passed, so are also less sensible, than nasal polypi ; and that its ends hang out of the lower apertures, hence, less pain and fever follow the application while its middle portion forms a noose between of a ligature to them. The fetid matter, formed the upper apertures of the cannula;, as soon as the polypus sphacelates, has a free The tubes are to be kept together, until they vent out, and may easily be washed away by have been introduced into the vagina, as far as injections. the root of the polypus. One is then to be held That the polypus cannot be tied, while it lies fast, while the other is to be carried round the in the uterus, is easily comprehensible. But, tumor, to the opposite side of the cannula that immediately it has descended into the vagina, remains stationary. Thus the ligature becomes the operation may be undertaken, and may be applied round the root of the polypus. A'Ur performed with the same kind of double cannula, introducing the finger into the vagina, to asccr- as was employed in the nose. However, here it tain, that the ligature lies in its proper situation, is extremely requisite, that the cannula should its ends are to he drawn through a small double be ratlier longer, than that already described, and cannula, which is only one-third of an inch long, somewhat curved. But, as the silver wire some- but so wide that it can be pushed over both the times breaks, two other very convenient instru- tubes a certain way with the finger, and the upper merits have been invented. end of the long cannulae with the aid of a sort of The first is Levret’s instrument. It consists long probe, with a forked extremity. Then a of two silver cannulae, which are curved in such third double cannula, through which the ends cf a manner, and so united by a joint, that they are the ligatures have likewise been passed, and the shaped like a pair of forceps. After introducing width of which is sufficient, is to be pushed over a ligature through the two tubes, so that its ends the lower ends of the long cannula', so ns to haiir out of their lower apertures, the instrument unite them. The ligatures are next to be drawn is to be shut, and passed upwards into the vagina, tight in the ordinary way, and fastened to over the polypus, on whichever side seems most the rings. The management of this instrument convenient." Then it is to be opened, and the is so easy, as to need no further explanation, polypus is to be pushed through the two branches Besides the above instruments, many others of the instrument, which is to be brought over have been devised, and recommended for tying the opposite side of the tumor. In doing this, polypi of the uterus. In particular, one in* the ligature becomes applied round the root of vented by Desault, claims the attention ul such the polypus, and forms a noose. The extremi- surgeons as wish to be informed of others. ties of the ligature are next drawn as tightly as possible out of the lower openings of the can. nuloc, and tied first in a surgical knot, and then in a slip-knot. The instrument is then shut, and the ligature constricts the root of the polypus. Afterwards it is to be tightened daily, until the tumor separates. It is plain, that this instrument has some de- fects, which, however, are easily amended. It is very inconvenient, that the surgeon should be obliged to have several such instruments, of va- rious sizes, and curvatures, so as to be able to select that, which seems most calculated for the magnitude and shape of the polypus. And, as the size and figure of the polypus cannot always be ascertained beforehand, it is often indispen- sable to try several instruments, ere the most suitable one is found out, and such fruitless at- tempts must be distressing and painful to the patient. The worst is, that though the upper ends of the instrument were to touch, when the lower are tied together, yet there would always be a space between the two apertures, where no ligature would be applied to the root of the po- lypus, and where, consequently, its separation would not easily be accomplished. The tubes may, also, bend with the force used in applying them, and the pain caused by the expansion of the instrument would then be very considerably increased. All these defects are done away in the instru- ment described by Nissen, dc polypis uteri, (See Richter's Chir. Bill. 9. B. S. CIS.) It consists of two silver tubes, twelve inches in