74 AMPUTATION. and the highest point of which is the bone itself. Desault owns, that this method is somewhat tedious and painful; but, in his opinion, these disadvantages are more than counterbalanced by the benefits procured for the patient. ((E UUVC6 Chir. de Desault pur Bichat, T. 2. 71. 547.) Having cut all the muscular fibres on every side, down to the bone, a piece of linen, some- what broader than the diameter of the wound, should be torn at one end, along its middle part, to the extent of about eight or ten inches. This is called a retractor, and is applied by placing the exposed part of the bone in the slit, and drawing the ends of the linen upward on each side of the stump. In this manner, the re- tractor will obviously keep every part of the sur- face of the wound out of the way of the saw. Graefe thinks, that, in amputations of parts, where there is only one bone, the unslit portion of the linen should always be applied over the anterior muscles, as these ought constantly to be most evenly kept back, so that no projection of them may interfere with the action of the saw. (Normal fur die Ablosung grosserer Gliedm. p. 105.) This is a preference, however, which may not be of great importance, though I confess, that there appears some reason in what Graefe has stated. That meritorious surgeon, J. L. Petit, whose name I always mention with pleasure, strongly commends the use of the retractor, the ends of which he drew over the anterior muscles : he says, that he has employed this simple and natural means, but, that it did not suit the taste of every body, especially of those, who consider all the merit of an operation to consist in the quickness of its performance, or who think it saiisfactory reasoning to say, this is not their way. (Trait J des Mat. Chir. T. 3, p. 152.) I have seen the saw do so much mischief, in consequence of the operator neglect- ing to use the retractor, that my conscience obliges me to censure such surgeons as neglect to defend the soft parts by this simple contri- vance. There are some, who have rejected the use of the retractor, because they have seen it get under the teeth of the saw, and obstruct the action of the instrument; but, this very circum- stance adduced against the retractor, is, when considered, the strongest one that could possibly be brought forward in its favour, as the surface of the wound itself, and particularly the edges of the skin, would, in all probability, suffer the same fate as the linen, by getting under the teeth of the saw, if no retractor were employed, in at- tempting to saw the bone high up, as closely as possible to the soft parts. I think no one can urge any, but the most frivolous, objections to the use of the retractor, and I know, that many, who have been with myself eye-witnesses of the mischief, frequently done by the saw in amputa- tions, are deeply impressed with an aversion to the neglect of this bandage. I have often seen the soft parts skilfully divided, and I have, in these same instances, seen the operators, directly afterwards, lose all the praise, which every one was ready to bestow, bv their actually sawing through one half of the ends of the muscles together with the bone. Men who have had fortitude not to utter a sigh, nor to let a groan be heard, in the previous sufferings, have now had their involuntary cries extorted from them by unnecessary, unjustifiable torture. But, be- sides defending the surface of the stump from the teeth of the saw, the retractor will undoubt- edly enable the operator to saw the bone higher up, than he could otherwise do. Another proceeding, which seems fit for repro- bation, and which, indeed, Mr. Alanson very properly condemned, is the practice of scraping up the periosteum with the knife, as far as the muscles will allow. Nothing seems more pro- bable, than that this may be the cause of the ex- foliations which occasionally happen after ampu- tations. At all events, it is a superfluous, use- less measure, as a sharp saw, such as ought to be employed, will never be impeded by so slen- der a membrane as the periosteum. All that the operator ought to do, is to take care to cut completely down to the bone, all round its cir- cumference. Thus a circular division of the periosteum will be made, and upon this precise situation, the saw should be placed. This is the method which was approved of by J. L. Petit. (Trade des Mai. Chir. T. 3. p. 159.) It is what I have always done and recommended; yet it must be confessed, that differences of opinion prevail about the necessity, and modes, of di- viding the periosteum. Graefe, in common with several others, entertains considerable apprehen- sion of the effects of the periosteum being torn and lacerated by the saw, exfoliations of the bone and abscesses up to the joint being possible con- sequences of the rude separation and inflamma- tion of this membrane. Hence, he is an advo- cate for making a circular cut through at the place where the saw is to be applied, and then scraping away ail below this point in the direction down- wards. (Nurmen fur die Abl. grnsscrer Gliedm. p. 165, and 105.) Perhaps, no very great ob- jection may lie against this mode, which is not uncommonly followed, though I have some doubts of its real utility, as it scarcely seems practicable in the midst of the oozing of blood, to hit with the saw the precise line, at which the re- mains of the periosteum terminate ; and, in con- firmation of the safety of Petit’s practice, Mr. Guthrie’s experience may be adduced, who says, “ I have often sawn through the bone, without pre- viously touching the periosteum, and the stumps have been as soon healed, and with as little inconvenience, as any others.” (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 88.) A very modern author, im- pressed, like many others, with the fear of tear- ing the periosteum with the saw, differs from them in thinking it best to scrape the periosteum upwards, by which means, he says, that at least half an inch of this membrane, and a proportion- ate quantity of muscular fibres, maybe preserved for covering the end of the bone, inasmuch as the muscular fibres, adherent to the periosteum, will remain connected with it; an advantage, which this author deems very important while the edges of the bone are sharp. In amputation below the knee, he considers the method highly useful, as the sharp edge of the tibia may be not merely covered with skin, but periosteum and the cellular membrane connected with it. Since his adoption of this practice, he assures us, that he has not for a very' long time seen any exfoliation of the tibia, and never, any protrusion of the bone of a stump. (Brunning)musen Erfuhr. fyc. ubrr die Amp. p. b’5, 66, Sue. Dumb. 1818.) Such