681 HYDROPHOBIA. marked low down, where the mucous membrane was of the colour of wine-lees. In four of the bodies, frothy mucus was perceived in the bron- chia;, larynx", and trachea. Trolliet infers from these appearances, that the frothy matter, seen about the mouths and lips of patients affected with rabies, is secreted by the inflamed mucous mem- brane of the branchiae, and that it is this se- cretion, and not the real saliva, which contains the hydrophobic poison. (Nouveau Traite de la Rage, #e.) In giving an account of a dis- section, Faure also long ago remarked, that the frothy matter was only met with in the air- passages, that the salivary organs were un- affected, and that the saliva itself did not con- tribute to the formation of the thick slaver, which appeared to have issued from the chest. (Hist, dc lu Soc. Roy. do Med. ann. 1783, p. 39.) From the preceding observations, and those of Mignot de Genety (Vol. cit. p. 54), Morgagni (De Sedib. ct Caus. Morb. Epist 8, art. 20, 25, 30), Darlue (Journ. dc Med. de Vandermonde, T. 4, p.. 27.0); B. Rush; and Dupsey (Obs. Ineditcs, No. 138) it would ap- pear; 1. That the mouth, strictly so called, and the salivary glands are without any alteration. 2. The mucous membrane of the air-passages is affected with inflammation, which in its highest degree extends from the division of the branchiae to the pharynx. When the inflammation is of less extent, the pharynx appears sound; and when yet more limited, it is usually not to be traced in the larynx. The point, where it seems to commence and is most strongly marked, is at the lower part of the trachea, or in the branchiae. Lastly, when none of these parts are found in- flamed, the lungs themselves present vestiges of inflammation. With respect to the theory’ of Trolliet, wherein the hydrophobic poison is said to be contained in the mucous secretion voided from the lungs, and to be the product of inflammation of the mem- brane of the branchiae, and not derived from the salivary glands; the question requires the con- firmation of experiment; for, though the salivary glands are not the seat of pain, swelling, &c. it by' no means follows, that their secreting process may not have been subject to some peculiar modification, on which the production of the hydrophobic virus depended. Thus, severe and obstinate ptyalisms often occur, and yet there is no manifest change in the state of the salivary glands. According to Van Swieten and Mead, there are also sometimes no morbid appearances either in the head, fauces, chest, or stomach. (Comment, in Boerh. T. 3, p. 562.) In three cases, out of six, the lungs were found emphysematous, that is to say, their in- terlobular substance was distended with air, and the pleura pulmonalis raised into a great number of transparent vesicles on the surface of the lung3. In a fourth instance, the emphysema was not observed in the lungs themselves, but in the cellular substance between the two layers of the mediastinum; and under the muscles of the neck. Morgagni also noticed vesicles of •nr on the surface of the lungs of a person, that died of hydrophobia. (De Scd. ct Cans. Morb. hpist. 8, art. 30.) M. Trolliet presumes, that this emphysema is occasioned by the rupture of one of the air-cells, in the convulsive efforts of respiration, as sometimes happens when a foreign body is lodged in the larynx. (See Cases by Louis and Lescure in Mem. de VAcad, de Chir. T. 4, p. 538 ; T. 5, p. 527.) The lungs were of a deep red colour in all the six subjects dissected by Trolliet, and they’ were observed to be gorged with blood in cases re- ported by numerous writers: as Bonet (See Van Swieten, T. 3, § 1140); Boerhaave (Op. Omn. p. 215); Morgagni (De Sedibus ct Caus. Morb. Ep. 8, art. 23, t);c.); Mead, Darlue (Recucil Period. $-c. T. 3 and 4); Faure (Hist, de la Soc. Roy. dc Med. p. 39); De la Caze (ib. p. 69); Portal, Oldknow, Bullingal (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ.); Marshall (Morbid Anatomy of the Brain, §c. p. 69); Gorey (Journ. de Med. Chir. T. 13, p. 83) ; Ferriar (Med. Hist, and Reflections, $-c.) ‘‘ Pulmones in quinque nigri ex toto, aut magna parte (says Morgagni), in quatuor magna item ex parte san- guine pleni.” With respect to the state of the organs of the circulation, in three of the cases, dis- sected by Trolliet, a good deal of air escaped from the heart and aorta. Morgagni is supposed to be the only other writer, who has noticed a similar occurrence (Epist. 8, No. 30), and who also in another case saw air escape from beneath the dura mater. (Ib. No. 23.) In two of Trolliet’s cases, some gelatinous clots were found in the heart and large vessels; but the great mass of blood was black, and very fluid in the heart, arteries and veins, as in subjects, who have died of asphyxia. In all the six cases, traces of in- flammation were noticed in the brain, or its membranes. The sinuses were filled with a dark coloured fluid blood; and the pia mater was much injected, and of a brownish hue. The same ap- pearances were found above the cerebellum, and the vessels on the investment of the medulla spinalis were considerably' enlarged. The surface of the cerebrum was also studded with scarlet spots, which appeared to arise from blood effused from the small vessels of the pia mater into its cellular substance. In two subjects, blood was extravasated towards the base of the brain in larger quantity. The plexus choroides was gorged with blood, and of a browji colour. Be- sides those and other changes, Trolliet remarked, in two of the cases, a thickening of the pia mater. The substance of the brain was generally softer than usual; but the fluid in the lateral ventricles was not in large quantity, though, in two cases, it had a bloody tinge. The late Dr. Marshall believed that in rabies, the brain was the part principally affected.' (Op. cit.p. 145.) Hufelandconjectured, that, in hydrophobia, the medulla spinalis is the part, originally affected, whence the effects of the disease are propagated to the nerves of the trunk. (Bibl. Med. T. 55, p. 395, ijc.) Dr. R. Reid believed, thut an alteration of the spinal marrow was essentially concerned in the disease. (On the Nature, §c. of Tetanus of Hydrophobia , 8vo. Dublin, 1817.) A case wns also published by M. Matthey, of Geneva, in which a quantity of scrum was found within the spinal canal. (Journ. Gen. de Med. T. 54, -p. 279.) See on this subject some ob- servations by Dr. Abercrombie. (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. Vol. 14. p. 66.) According to Trolliet, the traces of inflamvna-