38 AMAUROSIS. but absorbent medicines, which are to be followed by a Ionic careful employment of light, tonic bitters, joined with the spiritus aetheris nitrici. In the second form of the complaint, the fre- quent drinking of a large quantity of warm ■water was often found of itself effectual, to re- move both the general disorder, and that of the eye, a very gentle vomiting being thus excited, without straining, and the stomach completely freed from what was the source of indisposition. When the saburrae have a tendency to be dis- charged upwards, as indicated by continual nau- sea and disposition to vomit, emetics, which never operate without some violence, are to be most carefully avoided in plethoric individuals, or those who have a manifest determination of blood to their heads and eyes, or any acceleration of the circulation. The caution, here given, must be observed, even though emetics may on other accounts seem advisable; and according to Beer, the determinations of blood and the state of the system here mentioned, are commonly at- tendant upon this species of amaurosis. Indeed (notwithstanding the testimony of Schmucker, Richter, and Scarpa, in favour of emetics in this case) Beer positively affirms, that the violent operation of an emetic frequently converts this sympathetic amaurotic weakness of sight all on a sudden into blindness. Although I apprehend that Beer may here be somewhat prejudiced against emetics, candour obliges me to add, that, in this country, their efficacy in the present dis- ease is bv no means equal to the representa- tions of Richter and Scarpa. When there is less tendency to vomiting, but the case is at- tended with an oppressive sense of weight about the stomach, frequent eructations, as if arising from rotten eggs, an inflated belly, and tense hypochondria, a gentle aperient clyster may be ordered, especially when the bowels have been for some days confined, in which circumstances Beer has found, that tolerably brisk purgatives are always of the greatest service, both in regard to the general complaints, and the amaurotic weakness of sight; the removal of the offensive matter from the alimentary canal being imme- diately followed by a cessation of the determina- tions of blood already mentioned. Lastly, when this amaurosis originates altogether from the presence of worms in the bowels, common anthel- mintics are to be prescribed. In all these cases, says Beer, mere local treatment is quite inapplicable, and may do mischief. (Bter, Lehrc von den An^enkr. B. 2, p. 517—21): yet, as I have already explained in the foregoing pages, Scarpa and Richter here again differ very ma- terially from this experienced oculist. 5. Of the amaurosis, from the recession of acute cutaneous eruptions, as described by Beer. The peculiarity of this amaurosis is, that it comes on very rapidly, and always at that period of scarlatina, the measles, and less frequently the small-pox, when these contagious eruptions do not come out completely, but, from some cause or another, are suddenly repelled. This affection of the eyes, however, does not always induce perfect blindness. The pupil is invariably found preternaturally contracted, but quite transparent; the iris motionless; its pupillary edge however regularly shaped; while no characteristic ap- pearance, like a palpable turgescence of the blood- vessels of the conjunctiva, is present. In a note, Beer remarks, that, although this amaurosis is not characterized hy any particularly striking peculiarities of appearance, the diagnosis, espe- cially in such chi'drcn as can speak and com- plain of the considerable diminution, or entire loss of their sight, is facilitated by the exist- ing general exanthematous disorder; and, the more so, as the affection of the sight almost always commences wit h rapidity in the first stage of the eruption. In respect to the causes of this amaurosis, Beer remarks, that, if the sudden cheek of the eruption does not always produce such impair- ment of sight, but much more commonly oph- thalmy, the explanation is, that, in children, one circumstance, essential to the origin of amaurosis, is frequently wanting, viz. a directly or in- directly formed considerable weakness of the immediate organ of vision, that is to say, of the optic nerve and retina. The production of amaurosis by the recession of eruptions, is a cir- cumstance in which I could never put implicit reliance; and here we find Beer himself com- pelled to associatewith the explanation a previous weakness of the eye. With the above few, but unfavourable appearances in the eye, the prog- nosis is hopeful, if proper assistance be given without delay, that is to say, before the ex- anthematous disorder has quite ended. But, when the latter indisposition has terminated, and the amaurotic blindness yet remains, or when the impairment of sight has already existed a long while, an attempt to cure the patient may indeed be made, but, as far as Beer’s experience goes, the chance of success is very small. When the eruptive stage of the general dis- order is not past, the indication is to promote, by every possible means, the coming out of the eruption. For this purpose, Beer recommends sudorifics in general, camphor, the warm-bath, &c. And, when the surgeon first sees the patient in a later stage of the exanthema, the same re- medies may be tried, though the result will be more uncertain; and in the ultimate period of the general affection, there is a necessity for employing, together with these remedies, various alterative medicines. Local means, applied di- rectly to the eye, are always hurtful, while the constitutional illness lasts, and afterwards are, at the best, only useless. When the eruptive disorder is completely gone, but the amaurosis continues, alteratives may be of service, and in debilitated subjects they should be combined with the calamus aromaticus, (sweet-flag) and camphor, or bark. In this stage, also, the excitement of some counter-irritation is abso- lutely requisite. On the continent this is some- times done on the arm with the cortex mezerei; but it is a better practice to rub antimonial oint- ment alternately behind the car, and upon the nape of the neck, so as to maintain for a sufficient time an itch-like breaking out upon the integu- ments. ( Bter, Lehrc von den Ausenkr. B. 2. y. 523—25). G. Of the rheumatic amaurosis. According to Professor Beer, the rheumatic amaurosis is not very uncommon, and is so plainly denoted by symptoms, to which we shall