100 AMPUTATION. of the humerus, or its splinters, without delay. I perform the operation in the following manner: I make an incision in the centre of the deltoid muscle, and parallel to its fibres, carrying the incision as low down as possible. I get the edges of the wound drawn asunder, in order to lay bare the articulation, of which the capsule is generally opened by the first incision, and by means of a probe pointed bistoury, I detach with the greatest ease from their insertions the tendons of the supra and infra spinati, of the teres minor, of the sub- scapularis, and of the long head of the biceps; then I disengage the head of the humerus, and remove it through the wound in the deltoid by means of my fingers, or of an elevator. I bring the hu- merus up to the shoulder, and fix it in a proper position with the aid of a sling and a bandage. Such is the operation, which I performed on ten patients, in extirpating the head of the humerus; one of these died of the hospital fever, two of the scurvy, at Alexandria, and the fourth, after he was cured, died of the plague on our return to Syria. The rest returned to France in good health. In some, the arm became anchylosed to the shoulder, and in others, an artificial joint, allowing of motion, was formed.” (See Mem. de Chir. Militaire, t. 2. p. 175) Another suc- cessful case, of the same kind, has been more re- cently published by Mr. Morel. (See Medico- Chirurg. Trans. voU 7. p. 161.) Mr. Guthrie thinks it not sufficient to make a simple incision through the deltoid muscle into the capsular ligament, and take away the fragments of bone, but urges the removal at the same time of a considerable part of the capsular ligament, lest disease still go on in the joint. Also, as it is im- possible to know, beforehand, in what state the bone may be below the fracture (that is, with respect to fissures running more or less down it), he advises the incision, designed for the extraction of the splintered head of the bone, to be made in a situation where, if amputation at the joint be found indispensable, it will be of advantage. Mr. Guthrie likewise describes the manner of turning out the head of the bone in these cases, and sawing it off; the necessity of which, however, I do not clearly comprehend, unless the taking away of any sharp spicula of the upper end of the body of the bone be implied, which may be right. (On Gunshot Wounds, p 333—335.) My ideas, however, chiefly extend to the removal of loose fragments, and splinters, and, with respect to sawing off the head of the bone, this is a pro- ceeding, I suppose, necessarily limited to the kind of case reported by Mr. White. AMPUTATION OF THE HEADS OF BONES. In a letter, dated 1782, and addressed to Mr. Pott, Mr. Park, surgeon of the Liverpool Hos- pital, made the proposal of totally extirpating many diseased joints, by which the limbs might be preserved, with such a share of motion as to be of considerable use. Mr. Park’s scheme, in short, was to remove entirely the extremities of all the bones, which form the diseased joint, with the whole, or as much as possible, of the capsular ligament; and to obtain a cure by means of callus, or by uniting the femur to the tibia, when the operation was done on the knee; and the humerus to the radius and ulna, when it was done on tha elbow; so as to have no moveable articulation in those situa- tions. To determine whether the popliteal vessels could be avoided, without much difficulty, in the excision of the knee, Mr. Park made an experi- ment on the dead subject. An incision was made, beginning about two inches above the upper end of the patella, and extending about as far below its lower part. Another one was made across this at right angles, immediately above the patella down to the bone, and nearly half round the limb, the leg being in an extended state. The lower angles formed by these incisions were raised, so as to lay bare the capsular ligament; the pa- tella was then taken out; the upper angles were raised, so as fairly to denude the head of the femur, and to allow a small catling to be passed across the posterior flat part of the bone, imme- diately above the condyles, care being taken to keep one of the flat sides of the point of the in- strument quite close to the bone all the way. The catling being withdrawn, an elastic spatula was introduced in its place, to guard the soft parts, while the femur was sawn. The head of the bone thus separated, was carefully dissected out; the head of the tibia was then with ease turned out, and sawn off, and as much as possible of the capsular ligament dissected away, leaving only the posterior part covering the vessels, which, on examination, had been in very little danger of being wounded. The next attempt was on the elbow: a simple longitudinal incision was made from about two inches above, to the same distance below, the point of the olecranon. The integuments having been raised, an attempt was made to divide the lateral ligaments, and dislocate the joint; but this being found difficult, the olecranon was sawn off, after which the joint could be easily dislo- cated, without any transverse incision, the lower extremity of the os humeri sawn off, and after- wards the heads of the radius and ulna. This appeared an easy work; but Mr. Park conceives the case will be difficult in a diseased state of the parts, and that a crucial incision would be re- quisite, as well as dividing the humerus above the condyles, in the way done with respect to the thigh bone. Mr. Park first operated, July 2, 1781, on a strong, robust sailor, aged 33, who had a dis- eased knee, of ten years standing. The man’s sufferings were daily increasing, and his health declining. Mr. Park, in the operation, wished to avoid making the transverse incision, thinking that after removing the patella, he could effect his object by the longitudinal one; but it was found that the difference betw'een a healthy and diseased state of parts, deceived him in this expectation. Hence the idea was relinquished, and the transverse incision made. The opera- tion was finished exactly as the one on the dead subject related above. The quantity of bone removed was very little more than two inches of the femur, and rather more than one inch of the tibia. The only artery' divided was one on the front of the knee, and it ceased to bleed before the operation was concluded, but the ends of the bones bled very freely. In order to keep the redundant integuments from falling in- wards, and the edges of the wounds in tolerable