1063 tumor; teh thicker, ami, on the head, it is so ik and firm, that it retains its form after the .charge of its contents, and is so elastic, that • er being compressed, it readily expands again its former size. Within the cyst, Sir Astley >oper remarks, there is a lining of cuticle, ,ich adheres to its interior, and several desqua- ntions of the same substance are formed within : first lining. If the vessels of the cyst are ected, they are found to be numerous, but of ; all size. The cysts are occasionally met with an ossified state. (Surgical Essays, Part : p. 232, 233.) It is the opinion of Sir Astley coper, that encysted tumors arise from the ...argement of the follicles, or glandular pores, consequence of the obstruction of their orifice. 236.) If this sentiment were correct, the t would furnish another consideration against : view taken of the formation of the tumors Dr. Baron. However, it appears to me, it there are some reasons, which render the •option of Sir Astley’s explanation difficult; ■, if encysted tumors were only enlarged folli— -vs, they would not be found so far from the skin they frequently are, as for instance within the lit, and in other situations yet further from the .•face of the body ; and the collections of seba- ius matter, which so often collects, as this ntieman observes, in the follicles of the skiii the nose, and may be pressed from them in form of worms, would, if the cause assigned re true, make encysted swellings on the nose :lf exceedingly common ; yet, this part is not c often the seat of such tumors, as other parts of face. As far also as my observations extend, ssure cannot be said to have any share in giv- rise to the formation of encysted tumors, •ause I have seen them chiefly in situations, ere this kind of cause could not be suspected, for instance, on the face and about the vertex, 1 not particularly round that part of the head, ich is compressed by the hat. If also encys- swellings were owing to obstruction of the tancous pores with sebaceous matter, I appre- ld few persons would escape the disease. The •e in the early stage would also be as easily ;cted by the timely removal of the alleged itruction, as the cure of the little tender points the nose, really caused by the lodgement of sebaceous matter in the cutaneous pores, is does not appear to me to be consonant to leral experience. How the formation of ste- matous encysted swellings is to be thus ac- inted for, I cannot at all conceive. And, ly, it is to be noticed, that the little swellings the nose, arising in the way described, are, ju they occur, frequently attended with sore- s, from which true encysted tumors, at least, die early stage, are completely free. These, l other, reflections lead me to believe, that origin of encysted swellings cannot be satis- torily explained upon the principles suggested the above distinguished practitioner. How- :r, as all his opinions on surgical questions arc •crvedly valucable, I subjoin the advice, which has given, founded upon the preceding doc- le* If the follicle can be seen only as a black >t, filled with hardened sebaceous matter, Sir •tley Cooper recommends introducing a probe o it, and squeezing the sebaceous matter out of : tuinor> which is done with little inconvenience. But, if the contents cannot be pressed out with- out such violence, as would create inflammation, he says, that the best plan is to make the open- ing larger. Other surgeons have tried to cure encysted tumors by pricking them with needles, and squeezing out their contents; or by applying stimulating and discutient applications to them. However, it is a practice, which mostly fails, and, sometimes, converts the case into a terrible dis- ease, in which a frightful fungus shoots out from the inside of the cyst, attended with immense pain and irritation, and often proving fatal. (See Abernathy's Surgical Observations, 1804, p. 94.) Similar dangerous fungous diseases may also arise, whenever the surgeon, in cutting out en- cysted tumors, leaves any part of the cyst behind. The most advisable method, I believe, is to have recourse to the knife, before an encysted tumor has attained any considerable size. How- ever, if it is large at the time of the operation being done, a portion of the skin must be taken away with the swelling, in the manner described in the article Mamma, Removal of. The chief piece of dexterity in the operation consists in detaching all the outside of the cyst from its surrounding connexions, without wounding it. Thus, the operator takes the part out in an entire state, and is sure, that none of the cyst remains behind. When the cyst is opened, some of the contents escape, it collapses, and the dissection is rendered more tedious and difficult. Such is the common opinion, which has always appeared to me correct. However, Sir Astley Cooper states, that the best manner of doing the operation is to make an incision into the swell- ing, and then to press the sides of the skin to- gether, byf which means the cyst may be easily everted and removed. If the attempt be made to extract the tumor whole, “ the dissection is most tedious, and, before it is completed, the cyst is either cut, or burst. So many incisions, and sp much pain, may be readily prevented by opening it freely by one incision, raising its edge between the forceps,’’ and dissecting it from its adhesions to the surrounding membrane. (Surgical Es- says., Part 2, p. 240.) When the swelling is in the scalp, Sir Astley directs an incision to be made through its centre, from one side to the other,'when its contents, which in this situation are very solid, are immediately discharged in a mass of the same shape as the tumor. The cyst being raised with a tenaculum, may then "be easily separated. With respect to encysted tumors of the eye- lids, the atheroma and meliceris are said by Beer to form only upon the upper eyelid, on the side towards the temple, while he has always found the steatoma to be seated either in the vicinity of one of the eyelids, or sometimes over the lachrymal sac. The atheroma and meliceris, he says, usu- ally lie in the loose cellular substance directly under the skin of the eyelid, though sometimes more deeply under the orbicularis muscle, or even quite underneath the levator palpebrna sit- perioris, upon the convex surface of the tarsal cartilage, to which the swelling is then generally so firmly adherent, that it is impossible to remove this part of the cyst. Encysted tumors of the upper eyelid arc commonly so moveable, that they can be pushed above the superciliary ridge