POLYPUS. 929 1 111 ' ilk l -e ien to be attached to it, and drawn through the | iouth into the nose; thus the posterior aper- ire of the nostril may be stopped up. Then the ostril in front is to be filled with a sufficient uantity of lint, moistened in the solution of . incuni vitriolatum. The objections to extracting some polypi, says tichter, have been much exaggerated. When polypus is so large, that its root cannot be I ot at, its anterior part is to be taken hold i: f, and the tumor extracted piecemeal. It has Iready been, noticed, that this practice is free rom danger. Experience does not prove, that Is he polypus, which often bleeds profusely, is apt o occasion a violent hemorrhage in the opera- ion; and even if it should do so, powerful mea- ures may be adopted for the stoppage of the deeding. The malignity, and ulcerations, at- . ending a polypus, are no objections to the ope- :ation; but are rather motives for its being t aromptly performed, as delay must occasion i nore manifest and urgent danger. If the poly- ous should be here and there adherent to the membrane investing the nostrils, it is proper .o separate it, before the operation. This ob- ect cannot be accomplished by straight inflexi- jle instruments, such as have been invented by various surgeons. It may be very conveniently done, according to Richter, with thin, long, iiat pieces of tortoise-shell, introduced as deeply is possible into the nostril, on every side of the polypus. As it can seldom be known with cer- tainty, a priori, that adhesions are not present, it is proper, whenever the tumor is large, to in- troduce these instruments before the operation. Sometimes, the greatest part of the polypus extends backward, hanging down behind the palatum molle, towards the pharynx. If there should be but little of the polypus visible in the nostril, its extraction must be performed back- ward, in the throat. This is usually done with a pair of curved polypus forceps, which is to be introduced through the mouth, in order to sieze and tear off the tumor as high as possible above the soft palate. Care must be taken not to irritate the root of the tongue, or else a vo- miting is produced, which disturbs the operation. When the polypus cannot be properly taken hold of, we may, according to the advice of some sur- geons, divide the soft palate. But this is very rarely necessary. As, by this mode, the poly- pus is not twisted, but pulled away, the hemor- rhage is, in general, rather copious. If a frag- ment of the tumor should remain behind, it may commonly be extracted through the nose. Some recommend, for the extraction of polypi in the throat, a ring, consisting of two semicir- cular portions, with a kind of groove externally, which are capable of being opened and shut, by being fixed on the ends of an instrument con- structed like forceps. A ligature is to be placed round the ring, and its end is to be brought to the handle of the instrument, and held with it in the hand. The instrument is to be introduced into the mouth, under the polypus, and expanded as much as the size of the tumor requires. Its ring is then to be carried upward, over the poly- pus, so as to embrace it; and afterwards is to be shut, whereby the noose after being carried up- ward, is disengaged from the ring. The noose is to Ire pushed as high as possible over the tu- mor, by means of forceps, and the extremity of the packthread is then to be drawn, so as to ap- ply the noose tightly round the polypus. When this is done, the ring of the instrument is to be turned round, firmly closed, and placed in front of the polypus, on the noose, in such a way, that the packthread is to lie between two little pegs, made for the purpose, at the ends of the ring. On drawing the packthread firmly, and pressing the instrument, at the same time, downward, so as to make it act like a lever, the polypus, in general, easily breaks. Another peg projects in the direction of the ring, so as to prevent the ligature from insinuating itself within the circle. (See Thedcn's Bemcrk. Part, 2. and Piute G. Jig. 1. in Richter's Anfangsgr.) The employment of this instrument, however, is attended, says Richter, with many difficulties, and little advantage. Polypi in the throat are most conveniently extracted by the ordinary straight polypus forceps, with which they may be seized, and gradually drawn out through the mouth. The tumor generally allows itself to be drawn out without trouble, and the inclination to vomit, which at this moment occurs, also contri- butes to propel it outward. When it is so stretched, that it cannot be drawn out further, without considerable force, a spatula is to be in- troduced into the mouth, and to be carried as high as possible behind the polypus, in order to press it downward, toward the root of the tongue. When the tumor is, at the same time, forcibly pulled outward by the forceps, it usually gives way. When the polypus is situated partly in the throat and partly in the nostril, though it admits of being extracted, in the same way, through the mouth, yet its anterior part often continues at- tached, and must afterwards be separately re- moved through the nostril. It is also frequently advisable to twist off the anterior portion of the polypus first, by which, the mass in the throat is often rendered so loose, that it can be easily extracted. Whenever it is conjectured, that the polypus will come away in two pieces, it is al- ways preferable first, to extract the part in the nostril, and afterwards that in the throat: be- cause, the separation of the last is constantly productive of more bleeding, than the removal of the first. Sometimes, the following plan succeeds in detaching the whole polypus at once. Both the part in the nostril, and that in the throat, are to be firmly taken hold of with the forceps, and drawn at first gently, and then more forcibly, backward and forward. By such repeated move- ments, the root is not unfrequently broken, and the whole polypus brought away from the mouth. Frequently the polypus grows again. Policy requires that the patient should be apprised of this beforehand. Some of the root remaining behind, may often be a cause of the relapse. Hence, the surgeon should examine carefully, after the operation, the part at which the root ol the polypus was situated, and.separate, and twist off, most diligently, with the forceps, any frag- ments that may still continue attached, lhe recurrence of the disease, however, may arise from other causes. The tumor is occasionally reproduced, after it has been extracted in the most complete manner; and, doubtless, this cir— 9 O