503 FUNGUS. found in a sound state, the disease should be treated as a simple wound; but, if in a morbid state, amputation of the limb should be imme- diately performed. A large oval piece of the integuments being removed, the tumor was found to contain a very large quantity of a substance, not much unlike coagulated blood; but more nearly resembling the medullary part of the brain in its consistence and oily nature. It was of a variegated reddish colour, in some parts approaching to white, and, as blood issued from it, Mr. Hey conceived it was organized. This mass was partly diffused through the circumjacent parts in innumerable pouches, to which it adhered, and was partly con- tained in a large sac of an aponeurotic texture, which was connected with the capsule of the knee-joint. There was a great and universal effusion of blood from the internal surface of the sac, and from the pouches, containing this mor- bid mass. Amputation of the limb was immediately per- formed, on finding such to be the nature of the case. Mr. Hey, unfortunately, however, left a portion of the diseased surface behind on the in- ner part of the thigh, and hoping that a small narrow portion of the upper part of the sac would soon become a clean sore, and not impede the cure, he made the circular incision two inches below its higher part. On examining the amputated limb, the vastus internus was found to be brown, and much softer, than the other muscles, which were healthy. There were many small portions of blood extra- vasated in the substance of this muscle. The sac was formed on the aponeurotic covering of the muscle, and ended below where this aponeurosis begins to cover the capsular ligament of the knee. The two fungous substances, above described, appeared to have been only extensions of the morbid mass, where this had made its way through the sac and the integuments. The joint of the knee, and muscles of the leg, were perfectly sound. I need not detail all the particulars after the operation. Suffice it to say, the man suffered a great deal of constitutional disorder. After a few weeks, the granulations upon the stump be- came good, and the cicatrization was nearly completed at the end of the sixth week, after the amputation. At this period, the small and su- perficial portion of the upper part of the great sac, which Mr. Hey had unfortunately left, was now healed ; but, a tumor, now about four inches in length, and between two and three in breadth, had gradually risen at the lower and under part of the thigh, beneath the cicatrix. This con- tained a soft substance, exactly similar, as far as the touch could discover, to that which had filled the large sac. This tumor became painful, and sometimes discharged a bloody serum, sometimes dark-coloured blood, through four or five small openings in the cicatrix. Mr. Hey laid open the tumor, and removed its contents; but no advantage was gained by this proceeding. rI he interior surface was found to be too much diseased to produce good granu- lations. Blood continued to ooze out of the wound for a few days. Then the inner surface became covered with a blackish substance, which gradually extended itscll, and formed a new fun- gus. A variety of escliarotics were applied to destroy the fungus and morbid surface of the wound; but, to no purpose, the growth of the iungus always exceeded the quantity destroyed. Undiluted oil of vitriol, applied freely, had very little effect. An attempt was once more made to cut away the disease; but, on.examining the wound care- fully, after the contained substance was removed, the muscular substance was found degenerated into a hard mass, which felt somewhat like car- tilage. The adipose membrane was also dis- eased, and formed into large cells, which had contained the fungous substance. Hence, an- other amputation seemed the only resource. After this operation, the whole surface of the stump seemed sound, except the principal artery, which was filled with a somewhat stiff matter, resembling coagulated blood, which prevented its bleeding. The inside of the vessel, on being touched with the scalpel, felt hard, and com- municated a sensation, like that of scraping bone. The man was sent home, as soon as his state would admit of it; but, he died consumptive about six months afterwards. Besides this in- stance, in the thigh, [Mr. Hey relates cases of fungus hasmatodes, situated in the female breast, in the leg, in the neck (extending from the jaw to the clavicle, and producing suffocation), on the back part of the neck, on the back part of the shoulder, and at the extremity of the fore- arm, near the wrist. “ If I do not mistake, (says Mr. Hey,) this disease not unfrequently affects the globe of the eye, causing an enlargement of it, with the de- struction of its internal organization. If the eye is not extirpated, the sclerotis bursts at the last, a bloody sanious matter is discharged, and the patient sinks under the complaint.” (P. 283.) Besides some cases, in similar situations, to those mentioned by Mr. Hey, one is related by Mr. Burns, in which the hip-joint was the seat of this terrible affection. After detailing the pro- gress of the case to the poor man’s death, this author states, that he found, on dissection, the hip-joint completely surrounded with a soft mat- ter, resembling the brain, inclosed in thin cells, and here and there cells full of thin bloody water; the head of the thigh-bone was quite ca- rious, as \vas also the acetabulum. The muscles were quite pale, and almost like boiled liver, having completely lost their fibrous appearance, and muscular properties. The same sort of morbid mischief was also found within the pelvis, most of the inside of the bones, on the affected side, being quite carious. An attempt had been made, before the patient died, to tap the bladder; but, the trocar had only entered a cell, filled with bloody water, and situated in a mass of the soft brain-like substance. I have already said enough, to render the description of the dreadful nature of the fungus ha?matodes tolerably complete. Little can be said of the treatment; for, we know not of one medicine, that seems to have the least power of putting a stop to jhe disease, and we have no reason to believe, that there is ever the smallest chance even of any spontaneous amendment, much less of such a cure. We have seen, that when the chief part of a