FRACTURES. 4 93 ticularjy if the limb be in the extended posture. (VoU at. p. 68.) . In considering the varieties of simple fracture of the fibula, the first, to which Dupuylren ad- verts, is that, in which the bone is broken more than 'three inches ubtrve the extremity of the mal- leolus externus; a case, neither accompanied, nor foil,w ed hv any displacement of ihefoo•, and al- ‘most always produced by the direct application of violence to the broken part of the bone. A second variety of simple fractures of the fibula is when the bone has been broken, either by direct, or indirect force, within three inches from the end of the malleolus externus, and when the foot is not displaced, though much displace- ment is possible, and, indeed, often arises from the slightest effort, or movement made by the patient. The most frequent point of injury is about two inches and a half above the extremity of the outer malleolus. This is generally the place of a fracture, caused by a twist of the foot outwards; but, the accident may happen lower down, as is commonly seen, when the fracture is occasioned by a twist of the foot inwards. These fractures of the fibula, abstractedly viewed, are not of much importance in them- selves ; but, with reference to the manner, in which they facilitate the dislocation of the foot, they are very serious. Amongst the most frequent complications of fractures of the fibula, are the rupture of the in- ternal lateral ligaments,, the detachment of the point of the inner malleolus, and fracture of the lower part of the tibia. When these injuries originate from a violent twist of the foot out- wards, they precede the fracture of the fibula; but, when they are caused by a twist inwards, they follow the breaking of that bone. (Dupuy- tren, Vol.cit. p. 96.) Besides distortion of the foot outwards, or inwards, as attending certain fractures of the fibula, another complication may be dislocation of the foot backwards, produced by the action of the muscles of the calf, and not by the same causes, which broke the bone. However, when- ever the malleolus internus has not given way, the dislocation is incomplete, and the foot is inclined outwards as well as backwards. In the complete luxation, as Dupuytren remarks, the bent posture is found exceedingly advantageous, though he admits, that, it will not always answer for maintaining the reduction. TREATMENT OF FRACTURES OF THE LEG. As in cases of fractured thighs, the practitioner may adopt either a bent or a straight position of the limb: in this country, surgeons mostly follow Mr. Pott’s advice, and select the first one, of which alone I shall treat. That the bent position is, generally speaking, the most advantageous for a broken leg, I am well convinced. The strong muscles of the calf of the leg are the powers, which tend to displace the ends of the fracture, and their relaxation is a thing of the first-rate importance. It is quite different in the thigh, where the muscles are so numerous, that the attempt to relax, by any position of the limb, all such as have the power of displacing the frag- ments would be iri vain. I am ready to acknow- ledge, however, that in the bent posture, the apparatus is defective, inasmuch as it does not keep the knee-joint from moving; b.ut yet it is certain that such motion has not so injurious an effect upon fractures of the leg, as it has upon those of the thigh. 'W hen the case is compli- cated with a wound, which cannot be dressed in the bent posture of the limb, without great dis- turbance of the fracture, the straight position ought unquestionably to be preferred. Witli respect to one of Mr. Pott’s objections to this position, viz. that it makes the knee stiff for a long while afterwards, I suspect, that we should not lay much stress upon the circumstance; be- cause, as Boyer has correctly observed, it is always the joint situated below the fracture, that is thus affected. “ In the fracture of the fibula only, (says Pott) the position is not of much consequence; because by the tibia remaining entire, the figure of the leg is preserved, and extension quite unneces- sary ; but, still, even here, the laying the leg on its side, instead of on the calf, is attended with one very good consequence, viz. that the con- finement of the knee, in a moderately bent posi- tion, does not render it so incapable of flexion and use afterward, as the straight or extended position of it does, and consequently, that the patient will be much sooner able to walk, whose leg has been kept in the former posture, than he whose leg has been confined in the latter. “ In the fracture of both tibia and fibula, the knee should be moderately bent, the thigh, body, and leg, being in the same position as in the broken thigh. If common splints be used, one should be placed underneath the leg, extending from above the knee to below the ankle, the foot being properly supported by pillows, bol- sters, &c. and another splint of the same length should be placed on the upper side, comprehend- ing both joints in the same manner; which dis- position of splints ought always to be observed, as to their length, if the leg be laid extended in the common way, only changing the nominal position of them, as the posture of the leg is changed, and calling what is inferior in one case, exterior in the other; and what is superior in one, in the other inferior. “ If Mr. Sharp’s splints be made use of, there is in one of them a provision for the more easy support of the foot and ankle, by an excavation in, and a prolongation of, the lower or fibular splint, for the purpose of keeping the foot steady.” (Pott.) The strong muscles of the leg being relaxed by placing the limb in the bent position, as ad- vised by Pott, the surgeon is to make such ex- tension as seems requisite, for bringing the ends of the fracture into even apposition. Then be is carefully to raise the leg a little way from the surface of the bed, by taking firmly hold of the limb, above and belmv the fracture, and ele- vating- the broken bones together, in such a way as shall keep both the upper and lower portions as nearly as po-sible on the same level. At this moment, an assistant should put, exactly beneath the leg, the under splint, which lias been pre- viously made ready, by covering it with a soft pad, and laying over this an eighteen-tailed bandage. The limb is now lo be gently depressed, till it rests on the apparatus. The surgeon, before proceeding further, must once more observe, that