974 SCROPHULA. when scrophulous tumors have advanced towards suppuration, Dr. Cullen thought, that hastening the spontaneous opening, or making one with a lancet, was hurtful. With respect to ulcers, Dr. Cullen remarks, that escharotic preparations, of either mercury, or copper, have been sometimes useful in bring- ing on a proper suppuration, and thereby dis- posing the ulcers to heal; but, they have sel- dom succeeded, and more commonly,' they have caused the ulcer to spread more. The escliato- tic, from which Cullen saw most benefit result, is burnt alum, mixed with some mild ointment But, this celebrated writer gives the preference to keeping the sores continually covered with linen wet with cold water in the day-time, and some ointment, or plaster at night. Cullen says, that he usually found sea-water too ir- ritating, and no mineral water better, than com- mon water. (First Lines of the Pract. of Physic, Vol. 4 ) Formerly, the extirpation of scrophulous tu- mors was advised; but, this method is now con- sidered as being, for the most part, injudicious, and unnecessary, with the exception of diseased joints, and a few other parts, which frequently require being amputated, for the sake of saving the patient's life. Certainly, no particular dan- ger (generally speaking) would attend cutting out scrophulous glands, and tumors; the objec- tions to the plan are founded on the pain of the operation; on the number of such glands fre- quently diseased; on their often subsiding, either spontaneously, or by surgical treatment; on the operation doing no good to the general affection of the system, &c. When, however, a scrophu- lous testicle, breast, or joint, seriously impairs the health, and endangers life, the very existence of the patient demands the immediate removal of the diseased part. Wiseman relates, that he was in the habit of cutting out scrophulous glands, and tumors, with great success; but, for reasons, already alleged, most of the moderns think such operations in general at least unneces- sary. Caustics have been employed for the same purpose, instead of the knife; but, as they effect the object in view less certainly, more painfully and tediously, and cause extensive ulcers, they are disused by all the best surgeons of the pre- sent day. Some authors have advised making issues, and keeping them open, in order to prevent any iil effects from healing scrophulous ulcers, issues are certainly quite unnecessary for any purpose of this kind; but they are eminently useful as a part of the local treatment of scrophulous joints and abscesses, as we have more particularly ex- plained in the articles Joints, Lumbar Abscess, and Vertebrae. Mr. Burns notices, that issues have hitherto been chiefly used in diseases of the bones and joints; but, be adds, that it is reasonable to sup- pose, that they ought likewise to be useful in the eure’of enlargements of the glands, and other scrophulous tumors, if inserted in the immediate vicinity of the part. The only objection to their use is the scar, which they leave, and which, in certain situations, one would particularly wish to • l ; * i- over it, and kept open with the savine ointment. In other cases, a small pea issue, or seton, may be inserted by the side of the tumor. This me- thod would be objectionable, for scrophulous glands in the neck, in consequence of the scar; but, it might be employed, when the mamma is diseased. (Dissertations on Inflammation, Vol. 2.) The late Mr. Crowther used to apply blisters to scrophulous swellings, and maintain a discharge from the part. And, a more modern practice is that of producing irritation of the in- teguments, covering ^tumors and abscesses, by means of the tartar emetic ointment. (Alibert JVosol. Naturclk, p. 449 ; Goodlad on Diseases of the Absorbents, p. 162, <| c.) Preparations of lead; cloths dipped in cold water, sea-water, or weak vegetable acids; aether; sea-salt mixed with bile; the linimentum cam- phorae; a mixture of aether and the linimentum opiatum; and hemlock poultices; form a long list of applications, which have been employed for scrophulous tumors. According to Mr. Burns, moderate pressure, by means of adhesive plaster, conjoined with the application of cold water, is one of the best plans of treating mild scrophulous ulcers, when their situation admits of it. In other cases, he re- commends applying a powder, five parts of which consist of cerussa acetata, and the sixth of burnt alum. A piece of dry lint is next to be applied, and a compress, with such pressure as can be used. Benefit occasionally results from dipping the compress in cold water. The ceratum e lapid. calamin. is a good com- mon dressing, when it is wished not to interfere much with the progress of the ulcer. The ung. hydrarg. nitrat. rub. and the ung. hydrarg. ni- trat. are the best stimulating ointments. Poul- tices of bread and sea-water; solutions of alum, cuprum vitriolatum, and the hydrarg. mur.; so- lutions of the nitrates of copper, bismuth, and silver; the recent leaves of the wood-sorrel bruised; lint dipped in lemon-juice, or vinegar and water ; are among the applications to com- mon scrophulous ulcers. For irritable sores, diluted hydrosulphuret of ammonia; ointments containing opium ; car- rot and hemlock poultices ; a solution of opium ; and carbonic acid gas; are commonly recom- mended. The following are Mr. Russell’s sentiments respecting the treatment of scrophulous ulcers : “ Scrophulous complaints in general do not agree well with stimulant applications. In the treatment of scrophulous ulcers, under the ordi- nary circumstances of complaint, the simplest and mildest dressings answer best. When the pa- tients are using a course of sea-bathing, it is usual to wash the sores with sea-water, over and above the momentary application of the sea- water during the immersion of the whole body. Cold spring water is likewise a favourite applica- tion with many practitioners; and, from much observation, it appears that the operation of cold is well suited to counteract the state of inflamma- tion, which accompanies scrophulous sores. Pre- parations of lead are, upon the whole, very con- venient and useful applications, provided the so- lutions be used in a state of suflieient dilution to