4 OH EAR. D D 2 ties Sciences Med. 1.38, V% 63. • Mr. A. Cooper s cases are in the Phil. Pram, for 1802. Puncturing the inembrana tympani has been attended with some degree of success in France, where it has been tried by Itard, Celliez, and Maunoir, &c. It is hot to be dissembled, how- ever, that it is liable to failure. Dubois per- formed the operation in four instances, without success. ( Richerund Nusogr. Chir. T.'2, p. 132.) In most cases the patients benefited are said to have experienced pain just after the trocar was withdrawn. The organ, not being accustomed to sound, had become so extremely sensible, that it could not bear the gentlest impression of the sonorous vibrations, and the patient’s first request after the perforation had been made, was, that persons near him, might speak softly. This excessive tenderness of the sense gradually subsides. The two principal objections made to the foregoing practice, are the risk of injuring that ; part of the tympanum, which is connected with the malleus, and the tendency of the puncture to heal up again. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 313, p. 57 ; Maunoir in Journ. de Med. 1.13; Sabatier, Trade d'Anatomic, T. 2, p. 186.) The author of the article Oreille in the latter dictionary, who cannot, however, be deemed at .all partial to the operation, delivers the following judgment concerning it: — 1. It is the only ope- ration, which is likely to answer, where the tym- panum is cartilaginous or ossified, and the rest of the onjan is sound. 2. It will be attended with mine success, where the Eustachian tube is closed, md this defect cannot be otherwise removed. 3. It will be useless where the cavity of the tym- lanum is filled with matter, which is too thick to :scape through the puncture. 4. When deafness lepends on paralysis of the auditory nerve. >, \\ hen the infirmity arises from inflammation if the ear or nervous irritation. (:. From fe- ers, the Eustachian tube being pervious. The limits of this work will not allow me to itroduce the directions given by various au- lors for injecting fluids into the Eustachian ibe. Wathen, Baron, Boyer, and the latest .lrgeons, who have considered this operation, tern to agree, that it is more easily performed by issing the tube through one of the nostrils, than i :e mouth. Wathen’s instruments are described Phil. Trans. 1794; those of Baron Boyer in raite des Mai. Chir. T. 6, p. 391 ; and those f another modern advocate for this operation, Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 38, p. 108. The ttcr author, after stating how his tubes, which e four French inches in length, and shaped mewhat like an italic S, are introduced, enu- erates the following as the advantages derived >m their employment. 1. Fluid applications ly be conveyed into the Eustachian tube, the vity of the tympanum, and the mastoid cells, d deeply seated obstinate ulcerations within ?se parts cured. 2. The same parts can be ared from any mucus with which they are structed. 3. Blood extravasated within the npanum, from blows on the head, can be shed out. 4. Chalky substances, which I Tietimes form in the tympanum, may be (1 ,ug'd out in the same manner. 5. Through • ube a stilct can be passed into the Eusta- an tube, so as to perforate a congenital sep* t ill turn, or any cicatrix, obstructing the entrance of that passage. (J. When the sensibility of the auditory nerve is dull, the effect of fluids, thrown into the tympanum, can be tried. 12. Of perforating the Mastoid Process. Of all the cases of deafness, for which Arne- man and others have recommended this ope- ration, that attended with an abscess and caries of this process is the only one, in which the practice is now at all sanctioned. An instance is related by Jasser, in which the carious sur- face of the right mastoid process was exposed by an incision, and, an opening detected with a probe. An injection was thrown into the aper- ture with a syringe, when, to the astonishment of Jasser and his patient, the fluid gushed out of the right nostril. The plan was repeated for a few days, and, at the end of three weeks, the part was healed, and the hearing greatly improved. This success induced Jasser to make a perforation in the left mastoid process, the ear on that side being deaf, and to employ the injection, which was also discharged from the left nostril. The hearing, however, was not so completely restored in this as it had been in the right ear; but the wound healed up, without any exfoliations. (.Journ. de Med. Fev. 1793.) The idea of per- forating the mastoid process was suggested long before the time of Jasser. Riolan, in various parts of his works, suggests the propriety of making a small perforation in several cases of deafness, and tinnitus aurium, attended with obstruction of the Eustachian tube. Rolfincius also advised a similar opening to be made in the mastoid process with a trocar, in cases of dropsy of the cavity of the tympanum and of the mas- toid cells. Jasser, however, was the first who actually made the experiment, and his example was followed by Hagstroem, whose attempt did not succeed, the completion of the operation having been interrupted by profuse hemorrhage, and no benefit done to the hearing. The injections also appear to have caused, in this instance, alarming symptoms, violent pain in the head, loss of vision, sense of suffocation, and syncope. The fluid entered the mastoid cells, without any of it issuing, either by the nostrils or mouth. (Op. cit.) The operation was successfully tried by Lolfler. The injection did not pass into the mouth, yet the hearing was restored, though it was lost again, when the wound closed. Hence a new opening was made, and kept from healing by means of a piece of cat-gut. The patient was afterwards able to hear when his mouth was open. The perforation of the mastoid process was not approved of by Morgagni; indeed, It must often fail, as both Morgagni and Hagstroem have observed, on account of complete bony partitions preventing all communications between the mastoid cells; and sometimes the mastoid process, instead- of being cellular, is perfectly solid, an instance of which is recorded by A. Murray. 13. Diseases of the hnbynnlh. These are much more diversified than might, at first, be supposed, and, if we admit the two doubt- ful cases, said to depend upon the state of the lymph of Cotunni, there are not less than seven