90-1 OPHTHALMY. many circumstances, which can produoe it, the case belongs rather to the less frequent kinds of inflammation ot the eye. As predisposing, he mentions plethora, and irritability, of the eyes occasioned by little exercise of them. Experience has convinced him, however, that by far the most usual cause of this internal ophthalmy is an ex- traordinary, long continued straining of the eye in the inspection of small, microscopic objects in a strong reflected light. Respecting the prognosis, it is remarked by Beer, that this is not unfavourable, when the in- flammation of the eyeball is moderate, proper treat- mentcaribe immediately employed, the pupil is not yet very much contracted, and the power of see- ing not considerably impaired. But, if the power of vision should seem, as if it were abolished, the prognosis is extremely uncertain. And, if the pupil should close, after the entire stoppage of vis:on, no hope can be entertained of the re- covery of the sight; for, if the pupil open again on the subsidence of the inflammation, it will yet continue very small and motionless, and the eye blind. When the case is mistaken in its first stage, and neglected or erroneously treated, Beer says, it changes into a very perilous general in- flammation of the whole eyeball; a disorder, already considered. In the second stage, the prognosis is always unfavourable; for, the eyesight has always been already destroyed at the end of the first one, and the only expectation of the practitioner can now be to preserve the shape of the eye, while as speedy a check as possible is put to the sup- puration. If the case has been so mismanaged in its first stage, that a violent inflammation of the whole eyeball is inevitable, and traces of chemosis are already present, the chances of the figure of the eye being lost in the second stage are still greater, and as Beer observes, the sur- geon will be fortunate, if he can now prevent a frightful morbid change of the organ. In the treatment of the first stage, Beer de- scribes the indications as being exactly the same as in common ophthalmy, except that no scari- fications are necessary, unless the case change into a violent inflammation of the whole eyeball. However, great promptitude in the application of proper curative measures is here particularly called for, as the least delay is apt to cause either a total loss of sight, or at least a serious impair- ment of it. (Beer. 1 With few exceptions, the treatment of the second stage is also like that of ophthalmy in general. Warm poultices, Beer says, can only be employed with great circumspection. When matter collects in the anterior chamber, Beer strongly condemns making an opening in the cornea, by which practice, he states, that the eye would certainly be rendered quite deformed. He recommends leaving every thing to the ab- sorbents, the action of which is to be invigorated by general and local remedies. Poultices are now to be laid entirely aside, and the effect of warmth tried. Blisters are to be applied alter- nately behind the ear and on the temple. The eye is to be smeared with the vinous tincture of opium, two, or three times a day, by means of a camel-hair brush, or even four times, when the anterior chamber is filled to the extent of one half of it. Beer’s experience leads him to ap- prove of opening the cornea only in very urgent cases, that is to say, when the eye is so distended with matter, that the cornea is in a state of an abscess, which threatens to burst. In one part of his observations, Beer describes the matter in these instances as fluid; a point on which he differs from Scarpa: but, he afterwards confesses, that when an opening is practised, the matter must not be expected to flow out immediately like that of a common abscess. For further in- formation on this subject, see Ilypopmm. Idiopathic Iritis. The following is Beer’s description of the disease. Together with an obtuse, heavy, deep pain in the eye, producing a sensation, as if the eyeball were continually pressed upon by one of the fingers, a manifest and incessantly increasing uniform contraction of the pupil takes place, as well as a gradual diminution of the movements of the iris; yet, the pupil neither loses its circular shape, nor changes its position in the eye, and at the same time, an intolerance of light commences. When the pupil is examined with a glass, it is found to have already lost the shining blackness, which is peculiar to it in the healthy state. While these changes are occurring in the pupil, the colour of the iris undergoes a material alteration, first at its lesser circle, which grows much darker, and afterwards at its greater circle, which turns greenish, when it was grey or blue, but reddish, when it was brown or black. At the same time, the margin of the pupil becomes indistinct, and appears not so sharp as natural. As soon as the greater ring of the iris has undergone a consider- able change of colour, this membrane becomes evidently swelled, and projects towards the cor- nea, so that the anterior chamber is very much lessened. As early as the period, when the con- traction of the pupil, and the immobility of tlfe iris, are observable, a serious diminution of the power of vision occurs; because, in all cases, the inflammation extends more or less oyer the anterior layer of the crystalline capsule, and, afterwards, when the case is somewhat more ad- vanced, says Beer, one may perceive quite plainly, with the unassisted eye, those effects of inflamma- tion on the capsule, which have been so excellently described by Professor Walther. (Abhavdl. oiu dan Gclict/ie der Practischcn Medicin, 1 B. Landshut, 1810.) In proportion as the in- flammation makes progress, the pain grows more severe and extensive, and, towards the end of the first stage, it shoots particularly up to the top of the head; a circumstance, strikingly proved whenever any thing like slight pressure, aggravates the pain in the eye. The redness, perceptible in the eye during the whole of the first stage, is inconsiderable, and seems to be not at all proportioned to the violence and danger of the in- flammation ; for the sclerotica is only of a rose-red colour, and even this pale redness fades towards the circumference of the eyeball. fB. 1,/a 43d.) According to Beer, idiopathic iritis is always attended with a corresponding general disturbance of the system; but, a good deal depends upon whether the inflammation spreads immediately to the deeper textures of the eye, or to its outer coats, or in both directions at once. In the first case, the constitutional indisposition is always more severe, and the danger of the disease in- creases every moment; in the second instance, I