761 LEU LEU the tiuctura lyttre, or the linimentum camphorae. Electricity ami cold bathing are also considered principal 'means of cure, (Chandler) together vith the exhibition of bark, the use of the shower- bath, See. When the affection arises irom spasm ol tlie levator palpebne superioris, electricity, a small blister on the neighbouring temple, and rubbing the eyelid and eyebrow with .the tiuctura opii, are recommended, together with antispa&modic medicines. When lagophthalmos arises from the contrac- tion of a cicatrix, its relief is to be attempted precisely on the same principles as the ectropium. (See jEctropium.) However, when the eyelid is shortened as well as everted, nothing will re- move the deformity. The inconveniences, depending on the eye being unable to shelter itself from the liglu, are to be obviated by wearing a green shade. Whoever is acquainted with German, and is desirous of more minute information on this subject, may find an excellent account ot lagoph- thalmos in Richter's Anfangsgr. der Wun- darzn. B. 2. Von deni Hasenauge. See also Beer's Lehre von den Augcnkr. B. 2, p. 239, «Sv. Hvo. Wien, 1817. LARYNGOTOMY. (from x«£uy£, the la- rynx ; and 'Ts/tvtv, to cut.) The operation of piakmg an opening into the larynx. (See Bron- chotumy.) LATERAL OPERATION. One mode of cutting for the stone. (See Lithotomy.) LENTICULAR, (from lenticulairc, doubly eonvex.) An instrument, contained in every trephining case, and employed for removing the irregularities of bone from the edge of the per- foration, made in the cranium with the trephine. One side of its blade is convex, the other con- cave; anrioneofits edges is sharp. On the end of the blade is fixed a little shallow cup, with its concavity towards the handle of the instrument. This part serves the purposes of receiving the little pieces of bone, when detached, keeping the end of the blade from hurting the dura mater, and, when applied under the margin of the open- ing, enables the operator to guide the edge of the instrument all round it, with steadiness and se- curity. , > LEUCOMA. (from \ivko;, white.) Leu- coina and albugo are often used synonymously, to denote a white opacity of the cornea. Both of them, as Scarpa remarks, are essentially differ- ent from the nebula of the cornea; for, they are not the consequence of chronic ophthalmy, with varicose veins, and an effusion of a milky serum into the texture of the delicate continuation of the conjunctiva over the cornea; but, are the result of violent acute ophthalmy. In this state, a dense coagulating lymph is extravasated from the arteries; sometimes superficially, at oilier times deeply into the substance of the cornea. On other occasions, the disease consists of a firm callous cicatrix on this membrane, the effect of an ulcer, or wound, with loss of substance. The term albugo, strictly belongs to the first form of the disease; leucoma to the last, more particu- larly when the opacity occupies the whole, or the chief part, of the cornea. Ihe recent albugo, remaining after the cure of severe acute ophthalmy, is of a dear milky co- lour ; but, when of ancient date, it becomes pearl- eolourcd. Sortie cases, which have existed a considerable time, do not seem to have any con- nexion with the vascularity of the cornea; for they continue insulated in the middle of the trans- parent portion of this membrane, without occa- sioning the least uneasiness to the patient, the least disturbance of the rest of the eye, or any attempt of the absorbents to remove them. The recent albugo, provided the organization of the cornea be not destroyed, may generally be dispersed by the means employed for the relief of the first and second stages of acute ophthalmy; viz. general and topical blood-letting with in- ternal antiphlogistic medicines, and topical emol- lients for the first; slightly irritating and corro- borant applications for the second. As soon as the inflammation has subsided, the latter should be employed; for, by making the absorbents re- move the coagulating lymph, deposited in the cornea, they restore the transparency of this membrane. But, though this may often be accomplished in the recent state of albugo, it is more difficult when the long duration of the disease has pa- ralysed the absorbents of the affected part; or when the deposition of a dense tenacious sub- stance into the cornea has subverted its organiza- tion. (Scarpa.). The recent condition of the disease, without disorganization of the structure of the cornea ; its occurrence in young subjects, whose absorbents are readily excited by external stimulants; are circumstances favourable to the cure. In children, the albugo, arising from severe ophthalmy after the small-pox, and insulated in the centre of the cornea, very often disappears of itself in the course of a few months. Heicter, Langguth, and Richter, make the same observation. The event can only be imputed to the vigorous action children, and to the or- not being destroyed. m of the lymphatics ganization of the cornea For promoting this absorption, Scarpa recom- mends the following collyrium: Ammon, muriatae. Qij. Cupri acetati gr. iv. Aquae Caleis ^viij Misce. The fluid is to be filtered, after standing twenty-four hours. He praises also this ointment: j^. Tutiae praepar. 5j* Aloes, s. p. gr. ij. Hydrargyri submur. gr. ij. Adipis suffice. <;ss. Misee. And the unguentum oph- thalmicum of Janin. He mentions the gall of the ox, sheep, pike, and barbel, applied to the cornea, two or three times a day, with a small hair pencil, if too much irritation should not be produced. In some subjects, when the eyes are very irritable, and cannot bear the latter appli- cations, Scarpa lias found the oil of walnuts an useful application. But it is generally neces- sary to persevere, at least three or four months, before the case can be reckoned incurable. All the expedients, proposed for the inveterate albugo or leucoma from a cicatrix, consisting ot scraping or perforating the layers ol the cornea, and exciting ulceration there, are unavailing. For, though the enlargement of the cornea should be lessened by such means, its diaphanous state could not be restored; or should the patient per- ceive a ray or two ol light immediately after the operation, the benefit would only ho transient; for, as soon as the wound had liealid, the opacity would recur. The formation of an artificial