927 POLYPUS. ribbling from his mouth, and a fetid discharge roni his nose. In this state, lie survives a few eeks ; during the last days of his illness, lying i a state of perpetual stupor, and dying lethar- ic. Mr. J. Bell afterwards observes, that “ it orrid symptoms could establish the fact of ma- gnitv, there is not to be found in all nosology a ,ore malignant disease than this : but aneurism, ough it destroys the thigh-bone, the sternum, r the cranium, is not accounted malignant; either is polypus malignant, though it destroys kie cells of the face, and penetrates even through >ue ethmoid bone to the brain. These conse- quences result merely from pressure.” (John iell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. 3, Part 1, .. 90—92.) In April, 1817, there was a boy in St. Bar- lolomew’s Hospital, only twelve years old, who .ad just fallen a victim to the ravages of the irgest and most disfiguring disease within the nose ;hich I have ever had an opportunity of behold- _ng. The tumor before death had expanded the ipper part of the nose to an enormous size, while ielow the left nostril was immensely enlarged. The distance between the eyes was extraordinary, icing more than four inches. The left eye was iffected with amaurosis, brought on by the pres- sure of the swelling; the right retained to the last the faculty of seeing. The tumor nearly •overed the mouth, so that food could only bein- • roduced with a spoon, and an examination of the itate of the palate was impossible. About a fort- : light before death, the leg became paralytic, and luring the last week of the boy’s existence, an i ncontinence of the urine and feces prevailed, i 3n examination of the head after death, a good J leal of the tumor was found to be of a cartilagi- ious consistence, and, what was most remarkable, i portion of it, which was as large as an orange, extended within the cranium, where it had anni- nilated the anterior lobe of the left hemisphere of lie brain. Yet, notwithstanding this effect, the ioy was not comatose, nor insensible, till a few hours before his decease. All the surrounding bones had been more or less absorbed, and the place from which the excrescence first grew could not be determined. The celebrated Professor Richter^ has de- nied the validity of the objections, urged by Pott scagainst attempting to relieve the patient: neither the malignant nature of a polypus, its adhesions, immoveableness, ulcerations, nor disposition to "hemorrhage, &c. are, according to Richter, any :apology for leaving the disease to itself. (See Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. 13. 1, cap. 21.) Mr. J. Bell refutes the common notions, that polypi may be caused by picking the nose, blow- ing it too forcibly, colds, and local injuries. He asserts, that a polypus is not in general a local, solitary tumor: he has only found it-so in three, or four instances. Both nostrils are usually af- fected. He states, that no finger can reach that part of the nostril, where the root of the swell- ing is situated, as it is deep and high in the nos- trils, towards the throat, and near the opening of the eustachian tube. The finger cannot be intro- duced further, than the cartilaginous wing of the nose extends, and can hardly touch the anterior point of the lower spongy bone. The anterior and posterior chambers of the nostril are sepa- rated from each other by a narrow slit, which the finger can never pass, and which is divided, in consequence of the projection of the lower spongy bone into two openings, one above, the other be- low. Through these the heads of the polypus project. These tangible parts of the tumor, however, are very distant from its root, which is in the highest and narrowest part of the nos- tril iSeey;. 103,104.) Mr. J. Bell also says, that three, or four polypi are often crowded together in one nostril, while more are formed, or forming, in the other. He dwells upon the difficulty and impractica- bleness of tying the root of a polypus ; and ex- plains, that in all attempts to extirpate such tumors, the surgeon’s aim should be to reach a point, nearly under the socket of the eye, in the deepest and highest part of the nostrils, and that instruments can only do good when introduced beyond the narrow cleft, formed by the projec- tion of the spongy bone. (P. 108.) Though Mr. John Bell is probably right in his opinion, that polypi do not proceed from the se- veral circumstances, which have been above no- ticed. yet they are, in most instances, diseases of an entirely local nature. Certainly, in general, it is very difficult to describe what is the cause of a nasal polypus. Frequently the patient is, in other respects, perfectly well; and, after the re- moval of the tumor, no new one makes its ap- pearance. In this circumstance, it must origi- nate from a local cause, though it is generally difficult to define what the nature of this is. Sometimes several catarrhal symptoms precede the polypus, and, perhaps, constitute its cause. It is possible, they may only be an effect of the same cause which gives birth to the tumor; but, no doubt, they are sometimes the effect of the polypus itself. Sometimes, perhaps, a faulty state of the constitution really contributes to the disease; for several polypi frequently grow in both nostrils, and even in other situations at the same time; are reproduced immediately after their removal; and the patient often has an unhealthy appearance. Notwithstanding it has been as- serted, that a solution of the muriate of ammo- nia, frequently injected into the nose, sometimes disperses polypi, the efficacy of the remedy re- mains unestablished by experience; as, indeed, the very nature of the disease might lead one to anticipate. An operation affords the only ra- tional chance of a cure. There are four inodes of extirpating a nasal polypus : viz. extracting it with forceps; tying it with a ligature; cutting it out; and destroy- ing it with caustic. Extraction is the most common and proper me- thod. It is performed with the ordinary polypus forceps, the blades of which have holes in them, and are internally rather rough, in order that they may take hold of the tumor more firmly, and not easily slip off it. The front edge of each blade must not be too thin and sharp, lest, with its fellow, it should pinch off a portion of the poly- pus. The blades must necessarily have a cer- tain breadth; for, when they are too small, they cannot properly take hold of and twist the tumor. When the handles are rather long, the instru- ment may be more firmly closed, and more con- veniently twisted.