586 HEMORRHAGE. ject of hemorrhage. This gentleman, however, owns, that, in regard to the temporary means, by which the bleeding from a punctured artery is stopped, he lias but little to add to what Petit has explained, in his third publication on hemor- rhage. (Mem de l'Acad, des Sciences; 1735.) fhe blood is eflused into the cellular substance, between the artery and its sheath, for some di- stance, both above and below the wounded part; and when the parts are examined, a short time after the hemorrhage has completely stopped, we find a stratum of coagulated blood between the artery and its sheath, extending from a few inches below the wounded part to two, or three inches above it, and somewhat thicker, or more prominent over the wounded part, than else- where. Hence, rather than say the hemorrhage is stopped by a coagulum, it is more correct to say, that it is stopped by a thick lamina of coa- gulated blood, which, though somewhat thicker at the wounded part, is perfectly continuous with the coagulated blood lying between the artery and its sheath. (Jones,p. 1 13.) When an artery is punctured, the hemorrhage, immediately following, by filling up the space, between the artery and its sheath, with blood, and consequently, distending the sheath, alters the relative situation of the puncture in the sheath to that in the artery, so that they are not exactly opposite to each other; and by this means a layer of blood is confined by the sheath over the puncture in the artery, and, by coagu- lating there, prevents any further effusion of blood. But, this coagulated blood, like the external coagulum of a divided artery, affords only a temporary barrier to the hemorrhage: its per- manent suppression is effected by a process of re- paration, or of obliteration. Dr.'Jones’s experiments prove, that an ar- tery, if wounded only to a moderate extent, is capable of reuniting arid healing so completely, that, after a certain time, the cicatrization can- not be discovered, either on its internal, or ex- ternal surface; and that even oblique and trans- verse wounds (which gape most) when they do not open the artery to a greater extent, than one-fourth of its circumference, are also filled up and healed by an effusion of coagulating lymph from their inflamed lips, so as to occa- sion but little, or no obstruction to the canal of the artery. The utmost magnitude of a wound, which will still allow the continuity of the canal to be presented, is difficult to be learnt; for, when the wound is large, but yet capable of being united, such a quantity of coagulating lymph is poured out, that the canal of the vessel, at the wounded part, is more or less filled up by it. And when the wound is still larger, the ves- sel soon becomes either torn, or ulcerated com- pletely across, by which its complete division is accomplished. Beclard made a series of experiments upon dogs, whose arteries are said not to differ much from those of man, though the impulse of the heart is not so strong, and the blood is more coa- g triable; two circumstances, which should be duly considered in applying any ol the infnences drawn from such experiments to the human sub- ject. “ In his first experiment, lie pricked the femoral artery with a needle; the blood flowed; but, soon stopped. On removing the coagulum it again flowed, but, in a smaller stream ; it gradually ceased to bleed, and finally stopped, though the coagulum was again scraped off. On examination of the artery no trace of the cica- trix was found. Several similar experiments had the same result. In experiment 4, he de- nuded the femoral artery, and made a longitu- dinal cut in it, from two to three lines. The lips of the wound were seen in contact, during the diastole of the ventricle, and to be separated by a jet of blood during the systole. The blood was stopped by a coagulum; this was removed twice, and each time the blood flowed in a diminished stream, but the animal died. In experiment 6, he made the same incision, but did not detach the sheath from the artery, and the wound was left to nature. The hemorrhage was not great; there was an infiltration of blood into the sheath, the size of an almond, which at the end of some days began to diminish, and disappeared in two or three weeks. On the limb being examined, fifteen days afterwards, a little white ridge was found adhering firmly to the artery, and to the sheath, and completely closing the wound. In he interior, there was a depressed longitudinal cicatrix of the breadth of the fifth of a fine. The canal was regular and pervious through its whole extent. “ In experiments 7, 8, 9, he made transverse incisions of |, i, and | of the circumference of the femoral artery, separated from its sheath : all the animals died. In experiment 10, he made a transverse incision through \ of the cir- cumference, without disturbing the sheath. The bleeding was stopped by a coagulum, but, on the animal moving, it again flowed, and the dug died. But, in the next experiment of the same kind, the blood was stopped by a coagulum, and the.artery was closed by nearly the same process as in the 6th experiment. So complete was the cure, at the end of six weeks, that the external part of the artery did not shew any mark of a wound, and the cicatrix was scarcely observable on the interior surface. In his i 2th experiment, he cut one-half of the circumference; the ani- mal died; and so did it in several similar experi- ments. In experiment 13, he cut ffof the cir- cumference ; after the animal was much reduced, the bleeding ceased, and the artery was closed in the same manner that it is when the section is complete. “ From these experiments, he concludes, wounds of the arteries of dogs are cured by na- ture, when they are only occasioned by a punc- ture, or a longitudinal incision, whether the ar- tery be denuded or not; but, when arising from transverse incisions, they are always mortal if the artery be laid bare. If the artery retain its sheath, and the wound be j, or J of the cireum- • ference, it may be cured by the efforts of nature; but, it is always fatal, if £ of it be cut through.” (See Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Medicine and Surgery, Vol. 1, p. 26.) The inferences respecting the curability of a wound, extending through ^ of the circumference, and the incura- bility of one that affects only h of the circum- ference of the vessel, I should presume, must re-