132 ANEURISM. recurred in the tumor; the edges of the wound were brought together with adhesive plaster; and, in eleven days, the part was quite healed. (Med. Cliir. Trans. Vol. eleven, p. 100.) This is the strongest case, I believe, which has been adduced in support of the use of the temporary ligature, whether we consider the little time, which it was applied, the permanent cessation of all pulsation, the quickness with which the wound healed, or the complete recovery of the use of the limb; for when the patient was met six months after the operation, “ he could go to the mast-head with as great facility as at any period of his life.” This fact proves also, that there is a degreeof irregularity in the period, when the temporary ligature may be removed, without the pulsation in the tumor below the constricted part ever returning. Whether the variety is to be referred to temperament, the kind of ligature used, its greater tightness in one case, than another, or other circumstances, is not at present determined. The greatest advocate, which this practice has gained, is Scarpa, whose sentiments how- ever, about the most advantageous form of ligatures, and mode of applying them in cases of aneurism, are very much at variance with what is inculcated by the best and most ex- perienced surgeons in this country. Instead of using a fine ligature, composed of a single piece of thread, twine, or silk, he employs a cord consisting of from four to six threads, according, to the size of the artery, which is to be tied; and, instead of aiming expressly at the division of the internal coats of the vessel with his liga- ture, as the generality of English surgeons do, for reasons explained in another part of this work, (See Hemorrhage,) he prefers a largish ligature, and interposing between the artery and the knot a small cylinder of linen spread with ointment, with the view of preventing the inner coats of the vessel from being divided. His reasons for this practice may be explained in a few words: he admits, that whenever there is a concurrence of all the circumstances, capable of inducing in the tied artery, the proper degree of adhesive inflammation, above and below the place where a single circular ligature has been applied, this method is adequate to produce the speedy and steady closure of the arterial tube. But, says he, it sometimes happens, at least in man, that the pressure made by the circular ligature produces the ulcerative process more quickly in the artery, than the adhesive in- flammation. In fact, the circular ligature ul- cerates the artery in general about the third day after the operation; and the adhesive inflamma- tion does not always complete its course in this period of time. During this delay of the ad- hesive inflammation, the ulcerative process, oc- casioned by the pressure of the ligature, attacks more quickly even than surgeons generally sup- pose, the external cellular sheath of the artery, and penetrates into the cavity of the yet pervious vessel—and this of course with increased quick- ness, when the inner coats of the artery are already divided by the ligature. The dangers of non-adhesion and too rapid ulceration of the artery, Scarpa thinks are placed at the greatest distance by preserving undivided all the three coats of the vessel under the pressure of the ligature; and hence, his partiality to larger liga- tures, than are now used by the best surgeons in England, and to the interposition of a cylinder of linen between the knot and the vessel, as recommended by Pare, Heister, and Platner. If, however, he has had reason to suspect, that a simple circular ligature has frequently failed in England, because other innovations have been occasionally substituted for it, and because we should not have sought for a better, if ue hod already had the best, how much more vulnerable is his own practice on a similar principle; since, generally speaking, it has not retained half so many approvers as they who still express their prefer- ence to other methods, and more especially to the use of a single liga'ure, uncomplicated with other extraneous substances. Is it probable, he asks, that the single circular ligature, which was formerly used with doubtful success by the greatest surgeons, should now have become, as is pretended, the most certain means of pre- venting secondary hemorrhage? “ It is now wished (says he) to ascribe the failures of Mr. Hunter, and of many other operators, not to the circular ligature, but to the improper treat- ment of the wound in general, and in particular to the introduction into it of lint, and, more especially, to the irritation occasioned by the ligature of reserve.” On the contrary, it is argued by Scarpa, that, though Mr. Hunter, after his first trials, simplified the local treat- ment, though all skilful surgeons merely covered the wound with a pledget of soft ointment, and most of them omitted the reserve-ligature, yet, notwithstanding these reforms, secondary hemor- rhage after the use of a simple circular ligature was not rendered less frequent. On Aneurism, p. 25, ed. 2.) With respect to the latter gene- ral assertion, its incorrectness may be learned by reference to the details of Mr. Hunter’s own operations, and by going into the principal hos- pitals of this metropolis, where the use of a simple circular ligature for the cure of aneurisms very rarely fails, as far as secondary hemorrhage is concerned. Why then did the operation more frequently fail here in former times ? The answer is plain: the kind of ligature now em- ployed in England, cannot be compared to what was used in Mr. Hunter’s time, or even to what was here in fashion five and twenty years ago. And, besides the universal rejection of ligatures of reserve, practitioners now have a more thorough comprehension of what ought to be avoided in the operation, have a just fear of separating and disturbing the artery too much, know how to appreciate the advantage of closing the wound, and attach due importance to the choice of smaller or more eligible ligatures. (See Hemorrhage and Ligature.) When, there- fore, Scarpa supposes, that in England the prac- tice with the circular ligature in the treatment of aneurism, is materially the same now, as heretofore, and that secondary hemorrhage is as frequent, he has not availed himself of all the information on this subject, which he might have acquired from Mr. Wishart, the able trans- lator of his writings on aneurism, or from an attentive perusal of Mr. Hodgson’s valuable treatise. In an equality of circumstances, conducive to the success of the Hunterian operation,