^4S HERPES. eases of the skin is beginning to give way to die judicious distinctions proposed by the lute Dr. \\ illan, and so ably perfected by Dr. Bateman. 1 he appellation, herpes, is limited by these phy- sicians “ to a vesicular disease, which, in most of its forms, passes through a regular course of increase, maturation, and decline, and terminates in about ten, twelve, or fourteen days. The vesi- cles arise in distinct, but irregular clusters, which commonly appear in quick succession, arid they are set near together, upon an inflamed base, which extends a little way beyond the margin of each cluster. The eruption is preceded, when it is extensive, by considerable constitutional dis- order, and is accompanied with a sensation of heat and tingling, sometimes with severe deep- seated pain, in the parts affected. The lymph of the vesicles, which is at first clear and colour- less, becomes gradually milky and opaque, and ultimately concretes into scabs : but, in some cases, a copious discharge of it takes place, and tedious ulcerations ensue. The disorder is not contagious in any of its forms.” (See Bate- man s Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Dis- eases, p. 221, 222, Edit. 3.) This author notices six species of the complaint: viz. herpes phlyctaenodes; herpes zoster; herpes circina- tus; herpes labialis; herpes praeputialis; and herpes iris. As most of these cases more properly belong to the physician, than surgeon, 1 shall briefly describe three of them. According to Dr. Bateman, the Herpes Zos- ter, or shingles, is mostly preceded, for two or three days, by languor, and loss of appetite, rigors, headaeh, sickness, and a frequent pulse, together with a scalding heat, and tingling in the skin, and shooting pains through the chest and epi- gastrium. Sometimes, however, the precursory febrile symptoms are very slight. Upon some part of the trunk, several red patches occur of an irregular form, at a little distance from each other, upon each of which numerous small ele- vations appear clustered together. These, if ex- amined minutely, are found to be distinctly vesi- cular, and in the course of twenty-four hours, they enlarge to the size of small pearls, and are perfectly transparent, being filled with a limpid fluid. For three or four days, fresh clusters continue to arise, always extending themselves- nearly in a line with the first, towards the spine at one end, and towards the linea alba at the other. While the new clusters are appearing, the vesicles of the first lose their transparency, and, on the fourth day, acquire a milky, or yel- lowish hue, which is soon followed by a blueish, or livid colour, of the bases of the vesicles, and of the contained fluid. They now become some- what confluent, and flatten, or subside. About this time, they frequently break, and discharge, for three or-four days, a serous fluid, which, at length, concretes into thin dark scabs. These falfoff about the twelfth or fourteenth day, lea- ving the surface of the subjacent skin n a red amftender state; and when the ulceration and discharge have been considerable, numerous ci- catrices? or pits, are left. All the clusters go through a similar series of changes. Young persons, from the age of twelve to twenty-five, are most frequently afleeted; al- though aged persons are not altogether exempt from the complaint, and suflcr severely from the pain of it. Summer and autumn are the seasons, in which it is most common. Sometimes it su- pervenes to bowel complaints, and the chronic pains remaining after acute pulmonary diseases. In the treatment, Dr. Bateman thinks gentle laxatives, and diaphoretics, with occasional ano- dynes, when the severe deep-seated pains occur, all that is necessary. No external application is requisite, unless thevesicles be abraded bv the fric- tion of the clothes, which are then liable to adhere to the parts: in this case, a little simple ointment may be interposed. For a fuller account, see Bateman's Bract. Synopsis, p. 22G, &c. Herpes circinatus, or ringworm, makes its appearance in small circular patches, in which the vesicles arise only round the circumference: these are small, with moderately red bases, and contain a transparent fluid, which is discharged in three or four days, when little prominent dark scabs form over them. The central area, in each vesicular ring, is at first free from any eruption ; but, the surface becomes somewhat rough, and of a dull red colour, and throws off an exfoliation, as the vesicular eruption declines, which termi- nates in about a week, with a falling off of the scabs. A succession of these vesicular circles usually arise on the face and neck, or arms and shoulders, thus protracting the case for two or three weeks. The itching and tingling, which are the only- inconveniences of the affection, may be relieved by the application of the popular remedy ink, solutions of the salts of iron, copper, zinc, borax, alum, &c. Some additional interesting obser- vations on other forms of the herpes circinatus, may be found in Dr. Bateman’s Synopsis, from which I have extracted the few preceding par- ticulars. Herpes Prceputialis. This local variety of herpes was not noticed by Dr. YY illan, and we are indebted to Dr. Bateman for a description of it. The complaint begins with extreme itching, and with some sense of heat in the prepuce, on which one or two red patches occur, about the size of a silver penny. Upon these are clustered five or six minute transparent .vesicles. In twenty-four or thirty hours, thevesicles enlarge, become of a milky hue, and lose their transpa- rency; and on the third day, they are coherent, and have almost a pustular appearance. If the eruption is seated on that surface of the prepuce, which is next the glans, so that the vesicles are kept moist, they commonly break about the fourth or fifth day, and form a small ulceration upon each patch. This discharges a little turbid serum, and has a white base, with a slight eleva- tion at the edges; and by an inaccurate, or in- experienced observer, it may be readily mistaken for chancre, more especially, if any escharotic has been applied, which produces irritation, and a deep-seated hardness, like that of a true chan- cre. If not irritated, the slight ulceration begins to heal about the ninth or tenth day. When tiro patches occur on the outside of the prepuce, the duration of the eruption is shorter, and ulcera- tion docs not actually take place. In the treatment, Dr. Bateman recommends the avoidance of all stimulating, and moist, or unctuous applications ; and if the complaint be within the prepuce, he advises the interposition of a little bit of dry lint between the sore and the glans.