HEMORRHOIDS. 595 pwrtunity afforded by his dissecting room, Mr. Kirby has taken some pains to ascertain the nature of these tumors; and be observes, “ I cannot say, that they seemed to be formed of a varicose distention of the great hemorrhoidal vein, even in a single instance. In every case of external hemorrhoids, the tumor appeared to be composed of a prolongation of the cellular substance in a state of unusual firmness, sur- rounded by some veins, and covered by the in- teguments. The veins were branches of the in- ternal iliac. 1 n every case of internal hemorrhoid, the structure was pretty similar : the veins, how- ever, seemed enlarged, and were branches of the hemorrhoidal.” (0// certain severe forms of Hemorrhoidal Excrescence, p. 40.) The opinion, that piles are formed of cells filled with blood, is also adopted by Dr. Ribes. The distention of the hemorrhoidal veins with blood, he observes, gives rise to varices; but, if any of their blood is extravasated in the cellular membrane, at the inferior and internal part of the anus, hemorrhoids are the result. If the infe- rior mesenteric vein be dissected in hemorrhoidal patients, the ramifications of the vessel are seen terminating in these cysts of blood, and, on com- pletely removing the whole, the hemorrhoids appear suspended from the branches of the vein, as grapes from the vine. (See Revue Med. T. I, 8vo. 1820.) Montegre, well known as the author of a copious treatise on the present subject, is the only writer who defines a hemor- rhoid to be a preternatural determination of blood (fluxion sanguine) to the extremity of the rec- tum, because he conceives, that hemorrhage, swelling, Ac. are accidental circumstances, not constantly attending the disease. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 20, p. 445.) Whether the account of some piles being formed of distinct cysts, or sacs of blood be cor- rect, or not, there is no doubt, that the tumors sometimes consist of a varicose enlargement of the branches of the hemorrhoidal veins. Were this not the fact, how could cases like the follow- ing ever take place? “ One of my patients (says M. Delatour).had several of these tumors of very large size, and, at every contraction of the sphincter ani, the blood issued from them per saltum.” {Hist. Phil. Ohs. 212.) Montegre has likewise seen two instances, in which the blood spouted out of the tumors in a continued stream. {Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 20, p. 453.) And Richerand mentions a merchant who lived to the age of eighty-nine, quite free from infirmity, and whose good health was ascribed to periodical bleedings from pile0, during fifty years of his life ; the evacuation being very regular, and so profuse, that the blood was thrown some distance, as from a vein opened in phlebo- tomy. (See Nosogr. Chir.) If many piles were not either varices, or cysts in direct communica- tion with the large veins of the rectum, Petit would not have succeeded in taking blood from them by puncture, as he often did in lieu of the ordinary mode of venesection. {Mai. Chir. T. 2, p. 134.) Hemorrhoids vary in number, size, form, and situation; some being external; others, inter- nal; and some hardly larger than a pea, while others exceed a lien’s egg in size. Sometimes they bring on very serious complaints, either by bursting and discharging blood so profusely as dangerously to reduce the patient; or by exciting inflammation of the adjacent parts, and causing abscesses and listulae; or, lastly, by becoming strangulated by the contraction of the sphincter ani, so as to occasion severe pain. Piles, which bleed but little, are not of much consequence; but those which bleed profusely, cause violent pain, or which induce inflammation, and all its effects, demand the greatest attention. Lieutaud mentions a person, who lost three quarts of blood from some piles in the course of a couple of days ; and the heretic Arius, and the celebrated philosopher Copernicus, are said to have bled to death in this manner. I do not know what credit ought to be given to the extraordinary case cited by Panaroli, in which a Spanish nobleman voided every day for four years a pint of blood from some hemor- rhoids, and yet enjoyed perfect health! (See Obs. Chir. Pentec. 2, Obs.46.) For other curi- ous facts of this nature, see Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 20, p. 458. In general, when piles are situated far up the rectum, they are less painful, than when low down. In the former case, the veins or tumors are surrounded by soft and yielding substances, which do not make any painful pressure on them; but, when they are situated towards the anus, they often suffer painful constriction from the action of the sphincter muscle. In fact, when they are quite within the rectum, the patient has some- times no warning of his disorder, till he dis- charges blood from the anus. With regard to the cause of hemorrhoids, any thing capable of retarding the return of blood through the hemorrhoidal veins, may occasion the disease. The pressure of the gravid ute- rus, costiveness, and the frequent retention of hardened feces in the rectum, are very frequent causes. Persons, who lend sedentary lives, are often troubled with the complaint. Plence, women are more subject to piles, than men. The pressure of an enlarged liver, or of water accumulated in the cavity of the peritonaeum, it is said, may occasion piles I have adverted to the opinion of Montegre, that hemorrhoids depend upon a determination of blood to the lower part of the rectum, which sentiment is perhaps correct in cases, where the disease arises from irritation in that bowel, or the neighbouring parts. When these tumors are produced by the press- ure of the gravid uterus, no cure can be ex- pected till after delivery, when one generally follows spontaneously. Also, when piles are an effect of dropsy, they cannot get well, before the pressure of the fluid in the abdomen has been removed by tapping. Gently laxative medicines, and an horizontal position of the body, com- monly alleviate the uneasiness resulting from hemorrhoids. The application of an ointment, composed of equal parts of the powder of oak- galls, and of elder-ointment, or hog’s lard, con- tribute to the same beneficial effect. The appli- cation of warm water by means of a bidet, or semicupium, is also frequently productive of great ease. When piles arc constricted by the sphincter ani muscle, the pain may often be at once removed, by pushing the swellings up the ' rectum. When the disease is in a state of in- Q Q 2