AMAUROSIS. 47 angles in the upper and lower portions of the pupillary margin of the ins ; an evident tur- gescence of the blood-vessels of the eye, gra- dually augmenting with most violent head-ach into actual cirsophthalmia; frequent convulsive motions- t>f the eyes and eyelids, and strabismus of one or both eyes, ending in a true deviation of one or both these organs from their natural posi- tions. Under these symptoms, vision is after- wards entirely abolished; and the head-ach, though subject to remissions, grows so much worse, extending back to the spine, that the patient is often nearly frantic, and, indeed, after a time, a destruction of the external senses hap- pens, followed by that of the intellectual facul- ties. The first of the external senses which is lost, is always the hearing, which infirmity is next followed" by loss of the smell, or taste, or both these senses together; and then the memo- ry-, and other intellectual powers decline. In this stage of the disorder, the eyre-ball not un- frequently protrudes from the orbit; a patho- gnomonic symptom, to which Beer attaches great importance, because it is an infallible criterion of a diseased state of the bones of the orbit, of the parts which invest this cavity, and of the optic nerve and dura mater, in the sella turcica. In such cases, complete mania now usually fol- lows, and this sometimes in its most violent form, unless the patient happen to be first carried off by paralytic symptoms, life, under these circum- stances, never lasting any considerable time. As far as our external senses can discover, the cause of both these forms of amaurosis, as the title of this section specifies, lies in certain morbid changes in the structure of the optic nerve and its investments, or in diseased altera- tions of the bones of the cranium, the dura mater, and the brain. But how these changes arise is not so easy of explanation. Beer, there- fore, only makes a brief enumeration of his own observations and pathologico-anatomical investi- gations into this part of the subject. The morbid changes in the structures above mentioned, which Beer has yet ascertained by dissection, consist in a real induration of the optic nerves, and an adhesion of them to their sheaths, while within the skull these ash-coloured grey very much diminished nerves presented no vestige of medul- lary structure even as far as their origin from the brain. On the contrary, the optic thalamus presented externally its natural appearance. The retina seemed to have lost its pulpy matter, was tough, not easily torn, and appeared to consist but of a vascular membrane. Jn one example, although both eyes had been completely deprived of sight together, Beer found only the retina and optic nerve of the left side in this state of atrophy as far forwards as the point of union in the sella turcica. On the other hand, the optic nerve of the right eye was hard, without being in the least dwindled, and was closely adherent to its external coverings. Anteriorly to their decussation, nothing at all preternatural in either nerve could be discerned. But, the left cor- pus striatum was so indurated, that a very sharp strong scalpel was required for its division, though in colour and shape it was perfectly natural. On this side, also, the plexus ehoroides was entirely wanting. In three amaurotic patients of this ■ind, Beer found hydatids between the coverings of the optic nerve, and, where such hydatids lay* the medullary matter seemed to have been dis- placed by their pressure. With the utmost care, he could not trace the ophthalmic ganglion. Paw also found in the optic nerve a large hy- datid, which had produced amaurosis. (Oos. Anat. Rarior. Ohs. 2.) In Mr. Heaviside’s museum, there is a preparation of the optic nerve of an amaurotic eye, where a tumor of considerable bulk has grown from the neurilema. (See Wurdrov'i Essays on the Morbid Anatomy if the Human Eye, Vot. 2, p. 157.) In this work are specified examples of various other morbid changes of the optic nerve, especially calculous concretions within it, the presence of a viscid, muddy, grey fluid, in the thickened neurilema, instead of pulp, a dwindling of the nerve, Sec. To the present description of cases, Beer refers the instance recorded by Haller, (Opusc. Pathol. Obs. 65, p. 172,) in which a calcareous mass'was found betwixt the membrane of Ruyscli, and the vitreous humour. According to Beer, there is preserved in the pathological and anatomical museum of the general hospital at Vienna, an eye, distended with a similar osseous mass, with- out the capsule of the lens being at all affected. Examples, in which the amaurotic blindness arose from abscesses in the brain, are reported by Ballonius (Paradigmuta Hist. 7), by Pelargus, (Med. Jahrg. 2, p. 198;) Peyronie (Mem. de l’Acad. Iioyule deChir. l,p. 212,) Schaarsehmid (Berlin Nachrichte, 1740, No. 26,) and Langen beck, (Neue Bibl. 1, p. 61.) A case occasion- ed by disease of the thalamus is related by Villeneuve (Journ. ae Med. continue 1811, Few. p. 9S,) another of a tumor of the thalamus on the same side as the blindness, is recorded by Ford, (Med. Commuv. Vot. 1, No. 4 ;) and other swellings in various parts of the brain are de- scribed in Ephem. Nat. Cur. Dec. 3, Ann. 9, and 10, Obs. 253 ; De Hacn's Ratio Medendi, P. 6, p. 271 ; Journ. des Savans, 1697 ; Muzelt's Wahrnehm. 2, No. 13 ; Plater, Ohs. Lb. 1, p. 108 ; Thomann, Annalen fur 1800, p. 400, Sec. On this part of the subject, I beg leave to refer also particularly to my friend Mr. Wa d- rop’s valuable Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vat. 2, p. 174, &c. The morbid alterations of the bones of the cavity of the skull mostly happen at its basis, and not only may caries take placd; but still more frequently exostoses of various forms, which are sometimes so small that they arc first detected by the bone giving the feel of a rough grater. At the same time they are so sharp, that if the fin- ger be passed rudely over them, it will be pain- fully hurt. In these cases, the bones of the cavity of the skull are always found extremely thin; the diploe is almost entirely wanting, and the parietes of the orbit are preternaturally diapha- nous, and in some places imperfect. Beer speaks of a lady’s skull, who had been completely blind, and for some weeks previously to her death in- sensible, in which instance scarcely any part of the cavity of the skull could be carelessly touched, without risk of scratching the fingers with spi- culae. Once, in an amaurotic boy, who, for a short time before his death, was so insane, that he used to devour his own excrement, Beer found at the side of the sella turcica a long considerable spicula, which passed directly through the optic nerves at