VENEREAL aestions of the possibility and expediency of iriri" the venereal disease without mercury, is le paper of Mr. Rose. For, let it not be pre- vailed, that because the army surgeons find the enereal disease curable without mercury, they ean to recommend the total abandonment of iat remedy for the distemper, any more, than .-.ey would argue that possibility and expediency ■e synonymous terms. At the time, when Mr. ..ose published his observations, he had tried ae non-mercurial treatment in the Coldstream .egiment of Guards, during a year and three I larters, and had thus succeeded in curing all te ulcers on the parts of generation, which he >et with in that period, together with pic con- itutional symptoms, to which they gave rise. I may not be warranted in asserting, (says this -entleman,) that many of these were venereal, i. ut, undoubtedly a considerable number of them .ad all the appearances of primary sores, pro- -aced by the venereal virus, and arose under cir- imstances, where there had been at least a pos- j. bility of that virus having been applied. Ad- litting that there is nothing so characteristic li a chancre, as to furnish incontrovertible [ roof of its nature, it will yet be allowed, that I icre are many symptoms common to such ires, although' not entirely peculiar to them, Did whenever these are met with, there are ti.rong grounds to suspect, that they are the fi iects of the syphilitic virus. In a sore, for in- t ance, appearing shortly after suspicious c-on- I exion, where there is loss of substance, a want ; disposition to granulate, and an indurated r. margin and base, there is certainly a probability ; ’ that poison being present. Amongst a num- ber of cases of such a description, taken indis- iminately, the probability of some being vene- I eal is materially increased, and must at last ap- I roach nearly to a certainty. On this principle, borne of the sores, here referred to, must have ;en venereal. They were also seen by different lrgeons, on whose judgment I would rely, who l ;reed in considering many of them as well marked uses of true chancre.” (Rose in Med. Chir. 'runs. Vol. 8, p. 357, <fjr.) The men, thus . eated, were examined, almost every week, for considerable time after their apparent cure, both that the first approach of constitutional • ymptoms might be observed, and that any de- pption from an underhand use of mercury might e; guarded against.” (P. 359.) Sixty cases f ’ ulcers on the penis were also cured by Mr. ) lease, in the York Hospital, by means of simple d ressings, the only general remedy being oc- lsional purgatives. The practice was likewise extensively tried by Mr. Whymper and Mr. i rood, surgeons of the Guards, with the same ind of success. In Mr. Rose’s practice, all " lea of specific remedies were entirely laid aside, 'he patients were usually confined to their beds, ndsuch local applications were employed, as the ppearances of the sores seemed to indicate, iperient medicines, antimony, bark, vitriolic cid, and occasionally sarsaparilla were ad- linistered. (/-*. 30'3.) ** Upon an average says Mr. Rose) one out of every three of the ores, thus treated, was followed by some form r other of constitutional affection: this was in lost instances mild, and sometimes so slight, hat it would have escaped notice, if it had not DISEASE. 115t been carefully sought for. The constitutional symptoms were evidently not such, as could be regarded as venereal, if we give credit to the com- monly received ideas on the subject. Caries of the bones, and some of the least equivocal sym- ptoms did not occur. In no instance, was there that uniform progress, with unrelenting fury, from one order of symptoms and parts affected to another, which is considered as an essential characteristic of true syphilis.” (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 422.) The constitutional symptoms also yielded, without the aid of mer- cury, and frequently primary sores, correspond- ing to what had been called the true chancre, with indurated base, were cured in this manner, yet were followed by no secondary symptoms. We are also informed, that “ several cases oc- curred of a cluster of ill-conditioned sores over the whole inner surface of the prepuce; and be- hind the corona glandis; and also of a circle of small Irritable sores, situated on the thickened and contracted ring at the extreme margin of the prepuce. These occasionally produced buboes.” None of the sores of this description, met with by Mr. Rose, were followed by any con- stitutional affection. ( Vol. cit. p. 370.) He bears testimony to the ill effects of mercury and stimulants in cases of phagadenic ulcers, and con- firms a not uncommon opinion, that they are seldom followed by secondary symptoms, which opinion should be qualified with the condition mentioned by Mr. Guthrie, (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 565.) that no mercury be given. Lastly, as I have already stated, Mr. Rose ob- served, that most of the cases of papular eruptions followed ulcers, which were not very deep, and healed without much difficulty. (P. 39V.) Although the fact of the possibility of curing every kind of ulcer on the genitals, without mer- cury, is now so fully confirmed by the statements of Mr. Guthrie, (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 558 and 576.) ; Dr. I. Thomson, (Edinb. Med. and SurgAour n. for January, 1818); Dr. Hen- nen, (Op. cit.. Nos. 54 and 55, and Principles; of Military Surgery, Ed. 2.); Mr. Bacot, (On, Syphilis, p. 26, <£c.); and many other careful observers, and it is of great importance in re~ lation to the removal of an erroneous doctrine concerning the diagnosis, the expediency of the practice must evidently be determined by other considerations, the principal of which are the comparative quickness of the cures effected with, and without mercury; the comparative severity and frequency of secondary symptoms; and the generally acknowledged fact, that a syphilitic primary sore is not indicated with any degree of certainty by its mere external character, or in- deed any other criterion, that I know of. Respecting the comparative quickness of the cures of chancres, or reputed chancres, without the aid of mercury, much disagreement prevails in the different reports, even those collected by the same individuals, whose statements must therefore be deemed perfectly impartial, though inconclusive. (See Hennen's Military Sur- gery, Ed. 2, p. 536, §~c.) Some of Mr. Rose’s best marked cases of chancre, that is to say, such as were distinguished by the indurated base and circumference, healed in a very short time. But, even respecting these or any other kinds of chancre, no regularity on this point can