TIN loss TIC them, have been left to themselves, and, after a long time, spontaneously subsided. (Dclpcch, Traitc dcs Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 212, 215.) 1 his author has seen the operation of dividing the chief branches of the portio dura, in front of the parotid gland, undertaken, and even a por- tion of the soft parts cut away ; hut, without any favourable consequences. (P. 218.) I have already stated, that the nerves of the extremities are subject to affections very analo- gous to tie douloureux. The following instance related by Mr. Abernethy will be found inter- esting : — A lady became gradually affected with a pain- ful state of the integuments under, and adjoining to, the inner edge of the nail of the ring-finger of the left hand. No injury to the part was re- membered, which could have brought on this disease. The pain occurred at irregular inter- vals, and was extremely severe during the time of its continuance, which was for a day or two, when it usually abated. Accidental slight in- juries always produced great pain, and frequently brought on the paroxysms, winch however occa- sionally occurred spontaneously, or without any evident exciting cause. In all these particulars, the disease correctly resembled the tic doulou- reux of the nerves of the face. As the pain in- creased, the disorder seemed to extend up the nerves of the arm. After the patient had en- dured this painful affliction for seven years, she submitted to have the skin, which was the ori- ginal sent of the disorder, burnt with caustic. This application gave her intense pain, and, on the healing of the wound, she found her suffer- ings rather augmented, than diminished, by the experiment. After four more years of suffering, she consulted Mr. Abernethy, when the circum- stances of the case were such as to render an operation indispensably necessary. The pain of the part was intolerable, and it extended all up the nerves of the arm ; and this general pain was so constant during the night, as to deprive the patient of rest. The muscles of the back of the neck were occasionally affected with spasms. The integuments of the affected arm were much hotter than those of the opposite arm, and some- times the temperature was so increased as to cause a burning sensation in them. Under these circumstances, Mr. Abernethy did not hesitate to divide the nerve of the finger, from which all this disorder seemed to originate. He laid it bare by a longitudinal incision of about three quarters of an inch in length, from the second joint of the finger, and divided it opposite to that joint, by a curved sharp-pointed bistoury, which was conveyed under it. He then took hold of the nerve with a pair of forceps, and reflecting it downwards, removed a portion of it, half an inch in length, so that the possibility of a quick reunion might be prevented. The wound was brought together with sticking plaster, and it united by adhesion ; but, the upper part of the wound, opposite to the upper end of the nerve, became slightly inflamed, and was very painful. However, in the course of three weeks, t he appear- ance of inflammation gradually went ofl. After the operation, Mr. Abernethy pinched the originally affected integuments sharply with his nails, with- out causing any sensation ; but il, in so doing, lie moved the fintrer, then pain was felt. He skin at that part was actually devoid of sensation* for she still continued to feel similar sensations to those, which formerly occurred, though in a much diminished degree; but she became gra- dually as perfectly convinced as any medical man could be, that these sensations arose from the irritated state of the end of the nerve, above flit place where it was divided. The painful affec- tion of the nerves of the arm still continued, though considerably lessened in violence; how- ever it was sufficiently severe to make the patient apprehend, that little permanent benefit would arise from the operation. This pain continued occasionally about four months with varying de- grees of severity, but the temperature of the skin was not hotter, than that of the opposite side, as it had been before the operation. At the ex- piration of three months, the patient ascertained, that the integuments at the end of the finger actually felt when anything was applied to them, and this proved a new* source of alarm. Mr. Aber- nethy adds, that more than nine months have now elapsed, since the performance of the ope- ration, and the general pains in the nerves have become very trivial; but the sensation in the integuments at the end of the finger, has during that time gradually increased, and the skin has now its natural sensibility, so as accurately to distinguish the tangible properties of any body applied to it. If also the originally affected part be slightly compressed, painful sensations re- sembling those which formerly occurred take place. (Abernethy's Surgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 203.) In a case resembling the former, but the consequence of a wound of the finger, Mr. Lawrence also cut down to the nerve, and re- moved a portion of it, with permanent success. FothergiU's Paper in vol. 5 of the, Medical Ohs. and Inq. Dr. Ha igh ton's Obs. in the Med. Records and Researches. Dor-win's Zoonomia. Abernethy's Surg. Works, Vol. 2, p. 203, cjc. Richorand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 210, 8fc. Edit. 4. Dclpcch, Precis dcs Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 206, #c. Dr. S. Fothcrgill's Systematic Account of Tic Dou- loureux, 1804. Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol- 4, p. 48, Vol. 7, p. 575, $c. Kirby's Cases, 8vo. Loud. 1819. r |: li h k I u i* N \ v t. b It h i t, . 11 TINCTURA FERRI MURIATIS. This tincture has sometimes been exhibited in gleets; but a more important use has been assigned it by Mr. Cline, who orders it in dysuria from stricture, in the dose of ten drops, every twenty or thirty minutes, until nausea is excited. Where ehalybeates are indicated, this preparation is one very much approved of. “Mr. Justamond’s liquid for external use in cancers, and which the original inventor called his panacea antirancrosa, partook considerably of the nature of this tincture, which, indeed, with an equal quantity of spirit of wine, was sometimes substituted for it. “ Lastly, it is remarkably efficacious in de- stroying venereal or other warts, either used alone, or diluted with a small proportion of water.” (Pharm. Chir.) TINCTURA LYTTjE. Sometimes em- ployed in cases of gleets, and incontinence of urine, arising from a want of proper action in the sphincter vesicae muscle. The usual dose is from ten to forty drops, twice or thrice a day;