923 PHYMOSIS. r I , I iurgical Essays, Parti,?. 138.) Instead of •arm applications, some practitioners prefer old ; and it is yet an unsettled question, which emedies answer best. When the inflammation is of longer standing, he swelling compresses the urethra, and there is endency to abscess, ulceration of the latter iassage, extravasation of urine, and gangrene of he skin, Mr. Travers advises the employment >f emollient poultices and fomentations (the ;ommon practice, I believe), and the introduc- tion of a small elastic gum catheter into the iladder. “ This (says he) is not a practice ndicated by the degree of stricture, which is sel- lom considerable enough to require it: but, by die approaching danger of extravasation. It tho/ild not, therefore, be taken up, unless the cellular membrane of the penis has advanced to suppuration. ” As when there are sores, they cannot be dressed in the common way, injections must fre- quently be thrown under the prepuce, or the operation for phymosis performed. Mr. Hunter advises mercurial injections ; either crude mer- cury, rubbed down with a thick solution of gum- arabic ; or calomel with the same, and a propor- tion of opium ; or else a solution of one grain of : the oxymuriute of mercury in one ounce of water. Mr. Hunter also recommends the ap- ; plication of emollient poultices, with laudanum in t them, and to let the part, previously to the ap- plication being made, hang over the steam of 1 hot water, with a little vinegar and spirit of wine in it. When, in a case of phymosis, chancres bleed, 1 Mr. Hunter recommends the oil of turpentine . as the best stimulus for making the vessels con- ■ tract; but, when the hemorrhage proceeds from irritation, he recommends sedatives. Whatever is used, he says, must be injected under the pre- puce. Under such circumstances, it has always been a rule with me to avoid irritating applica- tions, and on this account I have never used turpentine, particularly as any troublesome bleeding from chancres may always be effectually checked by covering the penis with linen kept well wet with very cold water. Wben the inflam- mation has abated, Mr. Hunter advises moving the prepuce occasionally, to prevent its becoming adherent to the glans. He says, he has seen the opening of the prepuce so much contracted, from the internal ulcers healing and uniting, that there was hardly any passage for the water. If the passage in the prepuce, so contracted, be in a direct line with the orifice of the urethra, a bougie must be used. If otherwise, the ope- ration of slitting up, or removing part of the prepuce, becomes necessary. When matter is confined under the prepuce, in the manner above described, Mr. Hunter re- commends laying the prepuce open, from the external orifice to the bottom, where the matter lies, as in a sinus, or fistula. However, Mr. Hunter thinks laying open the prepuce for the mere purpose of applying dressings unnecessary, a* the sores may be washed with injections, by means of a syringe. I happened to serve my apprenticeship at St. Bartholomew’s, at a time when the fashion of cutting every phymosis, inflamed or not, was far too common, and I had abundant opportunities of witnessing the irreparable gangrenous mis- chief frequently thus produced. It gives me pleasure, therefore, to find this villanous prac- tice justly disapproved of by a modern writer. “ It is not advisable (says Mr. Travers) to cut the inflamed prepuce, nor, indeed, any inflamed part. I lately saw a phymosis induced by a thickened and rigid state of the membrane of the prepuce, during the free use of mercury, consti- tutionally and locally, for the cure of two sores, each of the size of a split pea, situated one on each side of the anterior fold of the prepuce. It was the opinion of an eminent surgeon, that those sores, which were thoroughly intractable, would not heal unless the prepuce was freely di- vided ; and, impressed with the same idea, after poulticing for some days, I slit it up. The sores immediately healed; but the wound as quickly assumed the same indolent and intractable cha- racter which had belonged to the sores, and was so slow in healing that it seemed to be only a trans- fer of the disease from one part to another.” (P. 139.) I have not only witnessed the same fact, in several cases under the late Mr. Ramsden, and in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, but have seen mortification brought on by the still more rash practice of cutting the prepuce either when the part was in a state of acute inflammation, or there were ulcers within it, when the constitution was in a reduced and very disordered state from the injudicious and immoderate use of mercury. The common operation, for the cure of phymosis, consists in slitting open the prepuce, nearly its whole length in the direction of the penis. This plan is certainly the most eligible, when the matter of a chancre cannot escape from under the prepuce ; because circumcision, which many surgeons, since Mr. Hunter’s time, have preferred, would not suffice for giving vent to the accumulated pus. In many cases of phy- mosis, says Mr. Hunter, an operation is impro- per ; for, while the inflammation is very consi- derable, such a measure might bring on morti- fication. He acknowledges, however, that there are cases, in which a freedom given to the parts would prevent the latter event. When matter is confined under the prepuce, an opening is in- dispensable, and, if the patient should object to the common operation, an opening should be made with a lancet directly through the prepuce, or else with a caustic. (See Hunter on the Ve- nereal Disease, p. 232, et scq.) When the prepuce is to be slit open, a di- rector is first to be introduced under it, and the division is then to be made with a curved pointed bistoury, from within upward. Many surgeons object to this operation, be- cause the prepuce continues afterwards in a very deformed state; and they perform circumcision, or amputatkin of the prepuce, in the following manner. The prepuce is first taken hold of with a pair of forceps, as much of the part being left out, as is judged necessary to be removed. The removal is then accomplished by one sweep of the knife, which, directed by the blades of the forceps, is sure of making the incision in a straight and regular manner. A fine suture is next passed through the edges of the inner and outer portions of the skin of the prepuce so as