182 ANTRUM. have included the orbit and nose, arid indeed one half of the face. Mr. Abernethy saw no means of affording the man relief. (Trany of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Ch'uurghul Knowledge, vol. 2.) See also a case related by Harrison. [New Land. Med. Jhum. vol. J. />. 1.) In a case of fungus, which had distended the antrum, hindered the tears from passing down into the nose, raised the lower part of the orbit, caused a protrusion of the eye, made two of the grinding teeth fall out, and occasioned a carious opening in the front of the antrum, through which opening a piece of the fungus projected, llesault operated as follows: the cheek was first detached from the os maxillare, by dividing the internal membrane of the mouth, at the place where it is reflected over this bone. Thus the outer surface of the bone was denuded of all the soft parts. A sharp perforating instrument was applied to the middle of this surface, and an opening made more forward than the one already existing. The plate of bone, situated between the two apertures, was removed with a little falciform knife, which, being directed from be- hind forward, made the division without difficulty. The opening thus obtained being insufficient, Desault endeavoured to enlarge it below, by sacrificing the alveolary process. This he en- deavoured to accomplish with the same instru- ment, but finding the resistance too great, he had recourse to a gouge and mallet. A considerable piece of the alveolary’ arch was thus detached, without any previous extraction of the corres- ponding teeth, three of which were removed by the same stroke. In this manner an opening was procured in the external and inferior part of the antrum, large enough to admit a walnut. Through this aperture a considerable part of the tumor was cut away with a knife, curved side- ways, and fixed in its handle. A most profuse hemorrhage took place ; but Desault, unalarmed, held a compress in the antrum for a short time; this being removed, the actual cautery was ap- plied repeatedly to the rest of the fungus. The cavity was dressed with lint, dipped in powdered colophony. On the eighteenth day’, the swelling was evi- dently diminished, the eye less prominent, and the epiphora less visible. But, at this period, a portion of fungus made its appearance again. This was almost entirely destroyed by applying the actual cautery’ twice. It appeared again, however, op the twenty-fifth day’, and required a third and last recourse to the cautery. From this time, the progress of the cure went on ra- pidly. Instead of fungous excrescences, healthy granulations were now formed in the bottom of the sinus. The parietes of the antrum, gradually approaching each other, the large opening made in the operation was obliterated, and reduced to a small aperture, hardly large enough to admit a probe. Even this little opening was closed in the fourth month, at which time no vestiges of the disease remained, except the loss of teeth, and a very obvious depression just where they were situated. In all fungous diseases of the antrum, making a free exposure of them is an essential part of the treatment: if you neglect this method, how can you inform yourself of the size, form, and extent of the tumor ? How could you remove the whole of the fungus, through a small open- ing, which would only allow you to see a very little portion of the excrescence ? How could you be certain that the disease were extirpated, to its very root? Even when the antrum is freely opened, this circumstance can only be learnt with difficulty; and how could it be as- certained, when only a point of the cavity is opened ? A portion, left behind, very soon gives origin to a fresh fungus, the progress of which is more rapid, and the character more fatal, in consequence of being irritated by the surgical measures adopted. (CEuvres Chirurgicoles de De- sault, par Bichat, t. 2.) See also other cases, recorded by Canolles, (Recueil Periodique de la Sue. de Med. t. 2. No. 9.) Eichorn, (Dus. de Poly pis in Antru Highmori, Goett. 1814.) Sand- ifort, (Museum Aimt. val. 2. Tab. 30.) Leveille, (Ricucil de la Sac. <3fc. I. 1. p. 24.) Weinhold, ( Von den Krunkheiten der Gesichtsknoclun, p. 27. 4tn. Halle, 1818.) I imagine, that English surgeons, unaccustomed to use the actual cautery’, will peruse with a de- gree of aversion this means, so commonly em- ployed in France by Desault, and other celebrated surgeons. Nor can I expect, that they will al- together approve the use of the mallet and gouge, for making a free opening into the antrum. Per- haps, it might be better to trephine this cavity with a small instrument for the purpose, and then cut the fungus away. After removing as much of it as possible in this manner, some instrument of suitable shape might be used to scrape the part, where the tumor has its root. However, if there be any case in which potent and violent measures, like those of Desault, are allowable, it is the one of which we have just been treating. Inveterate diseases demand powerful means, and tampering with them is generally more hurtful than useful. There is an interesting case of a fungus in the maxillary sinus, related in the first volume of the Parisian Chirurgical Journal. It was at last cured by’ opening the antrum, applying the cau- tery, and tying the portion of the tumor which had made its way into the nose. In the second volume of the same work, is an excellent case, exhibiting the dreadful ravages which the disease may’ produce when left to itself. INSECTS IN THE ANTHUM. It is said, that insects in this cavity may some- times make an opening into it necessary. This case, however, must be exceedingly rare; and even what we find in authors (VuUas de insect is viventibus intra viventin). appears so little au- thentic, that I should hardly have mentioned the circumstance, if there were not, in a modern work, (Med. Comm. vol. 1.) a fact, which appears en- titled to attention. Mr. Heysham, a medical practitioner at Carlisle, relates, that a strong woman, aged sixty, in the habit of taking a great deal of snuff, was subject, for several years, to acute pains in the antrum, extending over one side of the head. These pains never entirely ceased, but were more severe in winter than sum- mer, and were always subject to frequent period- ical exacerbations. The patient had taken se- veral anodyne medicines, and others, without benefit, and had twice undergone a course o,