LACIIIIYM meilies being applied for the correction of the state of the eyelids, Scarpa deems the argument inconclusive, because particular vices of the con- stitution, under the use of appropriate internal remedies and a well regulated diet, disappear, or are transferred to other parts, without the use of topical remedies. For my own part, I am disposed to believe, that, whether the disease begin in the eyelids, or elsewhere, generally both their lining, and that of the sac and nasal duct are also more or less affected; and, consequently, though Scarpa’s theory may not be in every respect satisfactory, nor at all applicable to certain dis- orders of the execreting parts of the lachrymal organs, the practice, to which his sentiments lead, will, in the generality of cases, which Beer de- nominates chronic blennorrhcea, be highly ad- vantageous. According to Mr. M'Kenzie, the local treat- ment of chronic blennorrhcea does not differ essentially from that of inflammation of the ex- creting parts of the lachrymal organs. But, every possible means must also be employed for improving the general health ; for, otherwise, ail local remedies will be unavailing. In scrophu- lous cases, particular attention must be paid to diet and mode of living. In weakly persons, the preparations of iron will be highly beneficial; and, when the disease is connected with disorder of the digestive organs, the treatment recoin- mended by Mr. Abernethy is that to which Mr. MKenzie expresses a preference. The em- ployment of Anel’ssyringe and probe are strongly reprobated. “ I grant, (says this author,) that the application of certain substances to the mu- cous membrane affected, is one of the most powerful means, which we possess, of correcting its disposition to chronic blennorrhcea. But, he who believes, that the best manner of applying these substances, is to inject them with Anel’s syringe, introduced through the pUncta, is la- mentably mistaken. Fie is, in fact, closing his eyes upon what he must know of the functions of the several parts of the lachrymal organs, and is1 doing that very thing, which is calculated to pro- long and exasperate the disease. Except at the time of a smart renewal of the inflammation, the puncta and canals, during this disease, continue in the exercise of their functions. Whatever fluid, therefore, is dropped into the lacus lachry- marurn, will be taken up by the puncta, conveved through the canals, and applied to the whole internal surface of the sac. Even ointments, placed within reach of tire puncta, will be ab- sorbed in the same manner. “ We ought then hrst of all to empty the sac by pressure, and, if possible, through the nasal duct into the nose. Having -placed the patient upon his back, we drop into the lacus lachrymarurn a small quan- tity of a weak solution of corrosive sublimate. H;. aq. ros. ;jiv. hydrarg. oxymuriatis grss. grj. Mucil. 5j. viui opii Qj. M. After remaining for a quarter of an hour in that position, he ought to rise, but without wiping away any of the colly- rium, which may remain After another quarter of an hour, the eyelids are to be carefully dried, and a little of Janins’s ophthalmic ointment ap- plied with a camel-hair pencil to the caruncula lachrvmails and edges of the eyelids. All this is to be carefully repeated twice a day.” Bro- AL ORGANS. 7j8 fessor Schmidt recommends the following col- lyrium. jy,. Aq. ros re tjvj. acid nitrici £)j. alcoholis 3j. 1VI. For the removal of the indura- tion over the sac, gentle friction, with camphor- ated mercurial ointment is recommended And, says Mr. M'Kenzie, it the blennorrhcea depend upon chronic inflammation of the Meibomian glands, the diluted citrin ointment is to be applied every evening at bed-time. (On Diseases of the Lachrymal Organs, p..43, $-c.) In the first stage of what Scarpa terms the puriform discharge of the palpebrte, when the weeping is incipient, tins author states, that a cure may be effected, with- out dividing the sac, or any other painful opera- tion. His practice consists in restraining the im- moderate secretion from the Meibomian glands and internal membrane of the palpebral, and in cleansing the viae lachrymales through their whole extent by means of injections of warm water, rendered more active by the addition of a little spirit of wine, and thrown Into the puncta lachrv- malia every morning and evening ; a measure, which, as already stated, is disapproved of by Mr. M'Kenzie, Schmidt, &c. Scarpa considers Janins’s ophthalmic ointment, weakened with lard, or fresh butter, as the best application for cor- recting the motif d secretion of the eyelids. A portion, equal to the size of a barley corn, is to be introduced upon the point of a blunt probe, every morning and evening, between the eye and eyelids, near the external angle, and the edges of the eyelids are to be smeared with it. The eye is then to be shut, and the eyelids gently rubbed, so that the ointment may be distributed upon the whole of their internal surface. A compress and bandage should be applied, and the eyelids kept closed for two hours. At the end of this time, the eye should be washed with the zinc collyrium. When there are superficial ulcerations at the edges of the eyelids, Scarpa applies to them either Janins’s ointment, or the unguentmn hydrarg, nitrat., and, in very obstinate cases, the argentum nitratum itself. If the vessels of the conjunctiva are varicose, be drops into the eye the tinctura thebaica. (Scarpa, Ed. 2, by Briggs, chap. 1.) The late Mr. Ware was earlier, than Scarpa, in pointing out the advantage of making appli- cations to the inside of the eyelids, for the relief of certain forms of disease, usually classed with fistula lachrymalis. “ When an epiphora (says he) is occasioned by an acrimonious discharge from the sebaceous glands on the edges of the eyelids, it must be evident, that injections into the sac will be very insufficient to accomplish a cure, because the sac is not the seat of the disorder. The remedies that are employed must be directed, on the con- trary, to the ciliary glands themselves, in order to correct the morbid secretion that, is made by them ; and for this purpose, I do not know any application that is so likely to prove so effectual as the unguentum hydrargyri nitratri, of the new London Dispensatory, which should be used here in the same manner, in which it is applied in common cases of the psorophthalmy. It will be proper to cleanse the eyelids every morning, from the gum that collects on their edges during the night, with some soft unctuous applications ; and I usually advise to apply to them, two or three times, in the course' ot the day, a lotion composed of three gruins of white vitriol, in two 3 C