380 DISLOCATION. the scaphoid, lunar, and cuneiform bones, which sloping more backwards than forwards, must make them more disposed to slip in this direc- tion, than any other. The accident may be caused by a fall on the back of the hand, while much bent; in which event the first row of the carpal bones slide backwards into the oblong cavity of the radius, lacerate the posterior ligament, and form an eminence behind the lower ends of the bones of the fore-arm. This prominence, the depression in front of the wrist, and the ex- traordinary flexion of the hand, which cannot be extended, are the characteristic signs of this kind of dislocation. The dislocation forwards generally arises from a fall on the palm, the fingers being extended, and more force operating on the lower, than upper part of the palm. The luxation is sometimes not complete; and the band remains painfully extended. As many ten- dons run before the wrist, and the annular liga- ment is pushed forward, the prominence formed by the carpal bones, in front of the ends of the radius and ulna, is not easily detected, and the case may be mistaken for a sprain. Dislocations inwards, or outwards, are never complete. The projection of the carpal bones at the inner, or outer side of the joint, and the dis- tortion of the hand, make such cases sufficiently evident. Recent dislocations of the wrist, particularly such as are incomplete, are easy of reduction; but, when the displacement has been suffered to continue some time, more difficulty is experienced, and, in a few days, all attempts are generally un- availing. This observation applies to all dis- locations of ginglvmoid joints; and I cannot, therefore, too strongly condemn the waste of time in trials to disperse the swelling of the soft parts, ere the bones are replaced; an absurd plan, which, I am sorry to say, is sanctioned by Boyer. (Mai. C/iir. T. 4, p. 260.) For the purpose of reducing the dislocated bones, gentle extension must be made, while the two surfaces of the joint are made to slide on each other in a direction contrary to what they took when the accident occurred. In dislocations of the wrist, numerous tendons are always seriously sprained, and many liga- ments Lacerated; consequential good deal of swelling generally follows, and the patient is a long time in regaining the perfect use of the Joint. Hence, the propriety of bleeding, low diet, and opening, cooling medicines; while the hand and wrist should be continually covered with linen wet with the lotio plumbi acetatis, and the fore-arm and hand kept in splints, which ought to extend to the end of the fingers, so as to prevent a return of the displacement. The limb must also remain quiet in a sling. When the ruptured ligaments have united, liniments will tend to dispel the remaining stiff- ness and weakness of the joint. Sometimes the lower head of the radius is driven through the skin at the inside of the wrist, between the radial artery, and the mass formed of the flexor tendons of the wrist and fingers. Cases of this description, when well managed, generally have a favourable termination, as we see in the case reported by M. Thomassin. (Journ. de Med. T 39.) If the smallness of the opening in the skin cause an impediment to reduction, the integu- ments should be divided with a knife. DISLOCATIONS OF THE CARPUS, METACARPUS, FINGERS AND THUMB. A dislocation of the carpal bones from each other seems almost impossible. The os magnum, however, has been known to be partially luxated from the deep cavity formed for it in the os scaphoides and os lunarc. This displacement is produced by too great a flexion of the bones of the first phalanx on those of the second, and the os magnum forms a tumor on the back of the hand. (CImpart; Bm/tr • liicheraud.) Chopart once met with a partial luxation of the os :nagnurp in a butcher. Baron Boyer has seen several examples of the accident, which, he says, is more common in women, than men; a circumstance, which he imputes to the ligaments being looser in females, and tokthe bones of the carpus in them having naturally a greater degree of motion. The tumor increases, when the hand is bent, and diminishes, when it is extended. The case does not produce any serious inconvenience. If the wrist be extended, and pressure be made on the head of the os magnum, the re- duction is easily accomplished; though a re- newal of the displacement cannot be prevented, unless the extension and compression be kept up by means of a suitable apparatus, during the whole time, requisite for the healing of the torn ligaments. As the inconveniences of the accident are slight, few patients will submit to any tedious, irksome treatment; and sometimes the surgeon is never consulted, till it is too late to think of replacing the bone. In general, therefore, the surgeon is obliged to be content with treating the case as a sprain, or contusion. The connexion of the metacarpal bones with one another, and with those of the carpus, is so close, and the degree of motion so slight, that a dislocation can hardly take place. The first meta- carpal bone, which is articulated with the os trape- zium, and admits of the movements of flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction, is capable of being luxated; but the accident is uncommon, for reasons explained in my other work. Although from the nature of the joint, between the first metacarpal bone and the trapezium, one might infer, that adislocation is possible in the four directions backwards, forwards, inwards, and out- wards, yet, if we are to believe Boyer, the first case is the only one which has been observed. The accident is produced by the application of external force to the back of the metacarpal bone, which is suddenly and violently thrown into a state of flexion, the case usually arising from a fall on the outer edge of the hand. In this circum- stance, the upper head of the bone is forcibly driven backwards, the capsular ligament is la- cerated, the extensor tendons of the thumb are pushed up, and the head of the bone slips behind the trapezium. For an account of the symptoms and treat- ment of this accident, I must refer to the 4th Ed. of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vol. 2, p. 469. The first phalanges of the fingers may be dis- located backwards oft’the heads of the metacarpal bones. A luxation forwards would be very dif-