WOUNDS. 537 GUN-SHOT > I operation. Mr. Guthrie, however, does not re- commend amputation to be done immediately, if the patient be particularly depressed by the shock of the injury directly after its receipt; a piece of advice, which I believe has in reality been at all times followed, not only in respect to amputa- tions, in cases of gun-shot wounds, but all other severe local injuries. “ I believe it to be (says Mr. Guthrie) a stretch of fancy in those sur- geons, who conceive, that, if the knife followed he shot in all cases, the patient would have the >est chance of success. No one will deny, that, f the shot performed a regular amputation, it vould not be better, than to have it to do after- vards; but, if they mean to say the operation hould in general be performed immediately after he injury, I can only oppose to them the facts >,bove stated, and the general result of my ex- lerience, which is decidedly in favour of allowing he first moments of agitation to pass over before ’ ny tiling be done; a period extending from that o one, six, or eight hours, according to the dif- erence of constitution, and the different inju- res that have been sustained. "But, Jrom one in hret hours will hj most cases be found sufficient.” On Gunshot IVouuds, p. 226, Edit. 2, Lonil. 820.) In the first edition of this gentleman’s 100k, some little want of precision rather cou- ealed his exact meaning, with respect to the pe- iod of time, which should generally be allowed o transpire between the receipt of the injury and ic performance of amputation ; but, after all le disposition to controversy upon this point, it 'pears there is little to fight about, as there is ither a misunderstanding, than a difference of ; | pinion. All acknowledge the advantage of oing the operation immediately, when the pa- ent is not faint and depressed by the shock of t ie accident}; all admit the prudence of deferring ■e use of the knife in other cases until the con- itution has revived sufficiently to be capable of caring the removal of the limb. (See A. C. lutchinson. Pi act. Obs. in Surgery, Hvo. Lond. 816; and his further Obseivutions an the proper ’rio'lfor amputating in Gur-shot Wounds, 1817. uarrier, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8; and >cuar, in Med. Chir. Joum. April, 1819.) As far as my experience goes, when the ne- •ssity of amputation is undoubted, all delay is iproper beyond the short period, during which e faintness immediately arising from the in- ry usually lasts. In the campaign in Holland, lid, the most successful amputations were ose done in the field hospitals directly after the rival of the patients, or rather, as Dr. Hennen s expressed it, with as little delay as possible. While hundreds are waiting for the decision of • e surgeon, he will never be at a loss to select lividuals, who can safely and advantageously ir to be operated upon, as quickly as himself, assistants can offer their aid; but, he will tray a miserable want of science, indeed, if, in s crowd of sufferers, he indiscriminately am- tates the weak, the terrified, the sinking, and | determined. While he is giving his aid to ew of the latter class, encouragement and a rdial will soon make a change in the state of - weakly, or the terrified ; and a longer period, d more active measures, will render even the proper objects for operation.” (On 'humj Surgery, /,. do, Ed. 2.) It appears from some returns, collected by Mr. Guthrie, that in the peninsula, the comparative loss, in secondary or delayed operations, and in primary, or immediate amputations, was as fellows; — Secondary. Primary. Upper extremities . . 12 to . . ] Lower extremities . . 3 to . . 1 The great success attending amputation on the field of battle was also convincingly proved after the battle of Toulouse. Here of a, 7 imme- diate amputations, 38 were cured, while of the 51 delayed operations, on that occasion, 21 had fatal terminations. (P■ 42—44, Ea. 1.) After the attack on New Orleans, out of 45 primary amputations, 38 patients recovered, while only 2 of 7 secondary amputations terminated in the pre- servation of the patients. {Op. at. p. 294, Ea. 2.) OF IMMEDIATE AMPUTATION. When a limb, that has received a gun-shot wound, cannot be saved, amputation should be im- mediately practised. The first four and twenty hours, Baron Larrey observes, are the only time that nature remains tranquil, (I should say, she does not remain quiet so long,) and we must hasten to take advantage of this period, in order to administer the necessary remedy. In the army, a variety of circumstances make the urgency for amputation still greater. 1. The inconvenience attending the transport of the wounded, from the field of battle to the mili- tary hospitals, in carriages badly suspended, the jolting of which would produce such disorder in the wound, and in the whole body, that most patients would die in the journey, especially if it were long, and the weather either extremely hot or cold. 2. The danger of a long continuance in the hospitals; a danger, which amputation materially diminishes, by changing a gun-shot injury into a wound, that may be speedily healed, and re- ducing the causes of fever, and the hospital gangrene. 3. The cases, in which there is a necessity for abandoning the wounded. In this circumstance, it is of importance to have amputated, for, after the operation, the patients may remain some days without being clressed, and the dressings are afterwards more easy. Besides, it might often happen, that these unfortunate objects would not meet with surgeons of sufficient skill to do the operation; a circumstance, says Lar- rey, that we have seen happen among certain nations, whose caravans, for the medical service of the army (ambulances), are not constructed like those in use with the French. OF C.’SES, IN WHICH AMPUTATION SHOULD HE DONE IMMEDIATELY. First case. A limb carried away by a cannon- ball, or the explosion of a howitzer, or bomb, requires amputation without any loss of time: the least delay puts the patient’s life in danger. In this case, the necessity of the practice is inculcated by M. Faure himself, as well as by Schmucker, Richter, Larrey, Dr. Thomson, and every modern writer upon gun-shot wounds. ^Vh*n a cannon-ball has tori o(T a limb, ampu- /