HYDROCELE. GG3 tients afflicted with this disorder, he was unable to pronounce what real foundation might exist for the foregoing conjecture, or whether the va- ricose state of the spermatic veins were a cause, or an effect of the hydrocele. In most instances, the accumulation of fluid takes place, without anv evident cause; though, in a few cases, it has appeared to be the effect of a contusion, or of rough long continued friction, of the scrotum. The disease is observed to affect persons of the best health, and most robust constitutions, as well as others, and its existence seems quite un- connected with dropsy, or debility. In short, it may be regarded as a disease entirely of a local nature. As Mr. Pott observes, its production is so slow, and gradual, and at the same time so void of pain, that the patient seldom attends to it, until it har arrived to some size. Not but that it sometimes is produced very suddenly; and in a very short space of time attains considerable magnitude. In general, at its first beginning, the tumor is rather round; but as it increases, it frequently assumes a pyriform kind of figure, with its larger extremity downward; sometimes it is hard, and almost incompressible; so much so, that, in some few instances, it has been mistaken for an induration of the testicle : at other times, it is so soft and lax, that both the testicle, and the fluid surrounding it, are easily discoverable. It is perfectly indolent, in itself; though its weight sometimes produces some small degree of uneasiness in the back. According to Mr. Pott, the transparency of the tumor, is the most fallible, and uncertain sign belonging to it: it is a circumstance, says he, which does not de- pend upon the quantity, colour, or consistence of the fluid constituting the disease, so much as on the uncertain thickness, or thinness of the containing bag, and of the common membranes of the scrotum. If they are thin, the fluid limpid, and the ac- cumulation made so quick as not to give the tu- nica vaginalis time to thicken much, the rays of light may sometimes be seen to pass through the tumor: but this is accidental, and by no means to be depended upon. The fluid is most fre- quently of a pale yellow or straw-colour; some- times it is inclined to a greenish cast; sometimes it is dark, turbid, and blood}'; and, sometimes it is perfectly thin and limpid. With respect to Mr. Pott’s remarks on the transparency of the swelling, as a symptom of hydrocele, they are correct, inasmuch as the ab- sence of this sign is no proof, that the disease is not of this nature; since thickness of the tunica vaginalis, and, ns ought also to have been admit- ted, the opaque quality of the fluid, sometimes prevent the rays oJ'a candle from passing through the swelling. But, on the other hand, it should have been explained by Mr. Pott, that •when the transparency is present, it is one of the surest marks of this species of hydrocele. It is next noticed by Mr. Pott, that in the be- ginning of the disease, if the water has accumu- lated slowly, and the tunica vaginalis is thin and lax, the testicle may easily be perceived; but if flic said tunic be firm, or the water accumulated in any considerable quantity, the testis cannot felt at all. In most cases, the spermatic ves- sels may be distinctly felt at their exit from the abdominal muscle, or in the groin; which will always distinguish this complaint from an intes- tinal hernia. But, in a few examples, the vagi- nal coat is distended so high, and is so full, that it is extremely difficult, nay, almost impossible, to feel the spermatic cord: and the same kind of obscurity is sometimes occasioned by the addition of an encysted hydrocele of the cord; or by the case being combined with a true enterocele. In a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, the swell- ing is flrst noticed at the lower part of the scro- tum, whence it ascends in front of the testicle and spermatic cord. The progress of the dis- ease is generally so slow, that six or even eighteen months elapse, before the tumor approaches the abdominal ring. And, amongst other characters of the ca^e, are to be noticed the disappearance of the corrugations of the scrotum by the effect of the distention; inclination of the raphe to the opposite side; and the possibility of feeling a fluctuation, when the lingers of one hand are ap- plied to one side of the tumor, and the surgeon slightly taps with the fingers of his other hand upon an opposite point of the swelling. In the hydroceles of children, the testis occu- pies a lower situation, than the same organ in the hydroceles of adult persons, and the swelling passes further up towards the abdominal ring. It is well explained by Mr. Pott, that the tu- nica vaginalis and tunica albuginea, are so in- separably united at the posterior and superior, or rather the posterior and middle part of the tumor, that no fluid can collect between them; and therefore, the fingers of an intelligent examiner must immediately discover here the firmness and hardness arising from the union of these parts ; while in all others, the two membranes being un- connected, and affording a void space for the collection of water, the fluctuation of it will al- ways be distinguishable. “ This rsays Pott) must for ever discriminate the simple hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis from the anasarcous swelling of the scrotum; from the encysted hydrocele of the cord; and from the in- testinal hernia. The first is every where equal, tumid and soft; and every where equally receives and retains the impression of the fingers; the second, though circumscribed, not very compres- sible, and affording the sensation of fluctuation, yet does not pit, and is alike to the touch in all parts of it; and in the third, if the testicle be distinguishable at all, it is found at the infeiior part of the whole tumor.” A collection of fluid in the tunica vagina- lis, complicated with a scirrhous or chronic in- duration and enlargement of the testicle, is well known under the nameoihydro-sarcocelc; a case, which should be carefully discriminated from a simple hydrocele, “ one of the marks of the lat- ter being the natural, soft, healthy state of the testicle : and the characteristic of the former, being its diseased and indurated enlargement.” Mr. Pott does not mean that, in a true simple hydrocele, the testicle is never altered from its natural state. lie admits the contrary, and that it is often enlarged in size, and relaxed in struc- ture, and that the spermatic vessels are frequently varicose. But, the testicle is never indurated. These two diseases are extremely unlike each other, and require very different treatment. That which would cure a simple .hydrocele,