ANEURISM. 113 1 and morbid state, Scarpa endeavours to demon- strate what share the proper and constituent coats of the artery have in the formation of the aneurisms! sac, and what belongs to the cellular covering, and other adventitious membranes sur- rounding the artery. The covering of an artery is merely an ad- ventitious sheath, which the vessel receives in common with the parts in the vicinity of which it runs. On cutting an artery across in its natural situation, the segment of the cut vessel retires and conceals itself in this sheath. This cellular covering is most evident round the curvature and trunk ol the aorta, the carotid, mesenteric, and renal arteries; it is less dense round the trunks of the brachial, femoral, and popliteal arteries. The pleura lies over the cellular sheath of the a.ch of the aorta, and ever that of the thoracic aorta; while that of the abdominal aorta is covered by the peritoneum. Both these smooth membranes adhere to, and surround, two-thirds of the circumference of the vessel. The great arteries of the extremities are not covered, in addition to the cellular sub- stance, by any smooth membrane of this sort, but by a cellular sheath, which is demonstrably distinct from the adipose membrane, and serves to inclose the vessels, and connect them with the contiguous parts. When air, or any other fluid, is injected by a small hole made artificially, between the cellular covering, and the subjacent muscular coat of the artery, the injected matter elevates into a tumour the cellular membrane, which closely embraces the artery, without properly destroying its cells, which it distends in a remarkable manner. When melted wax is injected, and pushed with much force, the cellular sheath of the artery is not only raised over the vessel, like a tumour, but, the internal cells of that covering are also lacerated, and, on examining afterwards the cap- sule of the artificial tumour, it appears as if it were formed of several layers, rough and irre- ; .. gular internally, smooth and polished externallv. 'I he same thing happens, when any injection is pushed with such force into an artery, as to • rupture the internal and muscular coats at some point of their circumference. Nicholls per- formed this experiment several times before the KRoyal Society. (Phil*. Trans, an. 1728.) As '.soon as the internal coat is ruptured, the mus- cular one also gives way; but, the external cellular sheath, being of an interlaced texture, and the thin laminae, of which it is composed, -being not simply applied to one another, but, ■ reciprocally intermixed, is capable of supporting .great distention, by yielding gradually to the impulse ol the blood, without being torn, or ' > •uptured. Scarpa is farther of opinion, that the same • dienomena may be observed, when the internal mt of the aorta becomes so diseased, as to be •uptured by the repeated jets of blood from the ■ mart. In this circumstance, the blood, impelled I >y the heart, begins immediately to ooze through he connexions of the fibres of the muscular ■ -oat. and gradually to be effused into the in- ti er*tices of the cellular covering, forming, for a I ertain extent, a kind ol ecchi/mosis, or extunasa- I <■/ htnod, slightly elevated upon the artery. I lftcrwards, the points of contact, between the edges of the fibres of the muscular coat, being Insensibly separated, the arterial blood, pene- trating between them, fills and elevates, in a remarkable manner, the cellular covering of the artery, and raises it after the manner of an incipient tumour. Thus, the fibres and layers of the muscular coat, beiru wasted, or lacerated, or simply separated from each other, the arterial blood is carried with great force, and in greater quantity, than before, into the cellular sheath of the artery, which it forces more outwards; and, finally, the divisions between the interstices of the cellular coat, being ruptured, it is con- verted into a sac, which is filled with polypous con- cretions, and fluid blood, and at last forms, strictly speaking, the aneurismal sac. The in- ternal texture, although apparently composed of membranes placed one over the other, is, in fact, very different from that of the proper coats of the artery, notwithstanding the injured vessel and aneurismal sac are both covered externally, in the thorax and abdomen, with a smooth mem- brane. Scarpa has examined a considerable number of aneurisms, of the arch, and of the thoracic, and abdominal trunk, of the aorta, without finding a single one, in which the rupture of the proper coats of the artery was not evident, and in which, consequently, the sac was pro- duced by a substance completely different from the internal and muscular coats. The aneurUmnl sac never c< mpriln nils the abide circumference of the vtssel. At the place wherq the tumour joins the side of the tube, the aneurismal sac presents a kind of constriction, beyond which it becomes more or less expanded. This would never happen, or rather the contrary circumstance would occur, if the sac were formed by an equable distention of the tube and proper coats of the affected artery. In incipient aneu- risms, at least, the greatest size of the tumour would then be in the artery itself, or root of the swelling, while its fundus would be the least. But, whether aneurisms be recent and small, or oj long standing and Large, the 'passage from the artery is always narrow, and the fund us of the swelling greater in pr, portion to its distance front the vessel. The sac is always covered by the same soft dilatable cellular substance, which united the artery in a sound state to the circum- jacent parts. Such cellular substance, in aneu- risms of the thoracic aorta, is covered by the pleura, and, in those of the abdominal aorta, by the peritoneum, which membranes include the sac and ruptured artery, presenting outwardly a continued smooth surface, just as if the artery itself were dilated. But, if the aorta be opened lengthwise on the side opposite the constriction, or neck of the tumour, the place of the uleera- tii n, or rupture, of the proper coats of the artery, immediately appears within the vessel, on the side opposite to that of the incision. The edge of the fissure, which has taken place, is sometimes fringed, often callous, and hard, and through it it was, that the blood formed itself a passage into the cellular sheath, which is converted into the aneurismal sac. If, as sometimes happens, in the arch of the aorta near the heart, the artery, before being ruptured, has been somewhat dilated, it seems, tit first, as if there were two aneurisms; but, the ceti-