I EAll. rj ft t; I whether tliev hear or not. As soon as it is clear, that this sense is deficient, the ears should al- ways be examined with great attention, in order to discover, if possible, the cause of deafness. Sometimes, the infirmity depends upon a mal- formation of the internal ear, and the cause does not then admit of detection. The most con- venient method of making the examination is to expose the ear, which is about to be examined, to the light of the sun. In this situation, the surgeon will be able to see beyond the middle of the bony part of the meatus, if he places his eve opposite the orifice of the passage, and takes care to efface the curvature of the cartilaginous portion of the canal, by drawing upward the ex- ternal ear. If the passage has been carefully cleansed, before the examination, the skin, form- ing the obstruction, may now be seen, unless it be immediately adherent to the tympanum. When the preternatural septum is not closely united to the tympanum, its destruction should be attempted, and hopes of effecting the object, either suddenly, or gradually, may reasonably be entertained. According to Leschevin, the par- ticular situation of the obstruction is the circum- stance, by which the surgeon ought to be guided in making a choice of the means for this operation. If the membranous partition is so far from the tympanum, that it can be pierced without danger of wounding the latter part, there can be no hesitation in choosing the plan to be adopted. In the contrary state of things, Les- chevin is an advocate for the employment of caustic, not only on account of the risk of injur- ing the tympanum with a cutting instrument, but, also, because, if the puncture were ever so well executed, a tent could not be introduced into it, so as to prevent it from closing again. In the first case, a very narrow sharp-pointed bistoury should be used : after its blade has been wrapped round with a bit of tape to within a line of the point, it is to be passed perpendicularly down to the preternatural membrane, which is to be cut through its whole diameter. The instru- • merit being then directed first towards one side, then the other, the crucial incision is to be completed. As the flaps, which are small and deeply situated, cannot be removed, the surgeon : must be content with keeping them separated by r means of a blunt tent. The wound will heal just as favourably as that occasioned in removing ' the imperforation of the concha, or outer part of the meatus auditorius. (Prix de I’Acatl. de Chir. p. 124—126, T. 9.) In the second case, that is to say, when the risk of wounding the tympanum leads us to prefer the employment of caustic, the safest and most commodious way of putting the plan in execution would be that of touching the obstruction, as often as circum- stances may require, with the extremity of a bou- gie armed with the argentum nitratum. In the intervals of the applications, no dressings need be ntroduced, except a bit of clean soft cotton, for -lie purpose of absorbing any discharge, which may take place within the passage. It is manifest, that if the whole, or a consi- lerable part of the meatus auditorius externus •vere wanting, the foregoing measures would be nsuffleient. The following observations of Les- hevin merit attention : “ I do not here allude to .ascs, in which a malformation of the bono ex- 397 ists. I know not, whether there are any exam-, pies of such an imperforation; but, it is clear, that it would be absolutely incurable. I speak of a temporal bone perfectly formed in all its parts, and the meatus auditorius of which, instead of being merely lined by a membrane, as in the natural state, is blocked up by the cohesion of the parietes of this membrane throughout a certain extent of the canal; just as the urethra, rectum, or vagina, is sometimes observed to be not simply closed by a membrane, but by a true obliteration of its cavity. “ Such a defect in the ear may be congenital, and it may also arise from a wound, or ulceration, of the whole circumference of the meatus audi- torius externus, this canal having become closed by the adhesion of its parietes, on cicatrization taking place. “ Such an imperforation, whether congenital, or accidental, must certainly be more difficult to cure, than the examples treated of above; but, (says Leschevin) I do not for this reason believe, that the case ought to be entirely abandoned. Yet, I would not have the cure attempted in all sorts of circumstances. For instance, if the defect only existed in one ear, and the other were sound, I would not undertake the operation, because, as the patient can hear tolerably well on one side, the advantages which he might derive from having the enjoyment of the other ear, would not counterbalance the pain and bad symptoms occasioned by such an experiment, the success of which is extremely uncertain. I would not then run the risk of making a perforation, ex- cept in a case of complete deafness; and I pro- pose this means only as a dubious one upon the fundamental maxim, so often laid down, that it is preferable to employ a doubtful remedy, than none at all. “ With respect to the mode of executing this operation,” says Leschevin, “the trocar seems the most eligible instrument. I would employ one, that is vary short, and the point of which is bluntish, and only projects out of a cannula as little as possible. This construction would in- deed make the instrument less adapted to pierce anything; but, still, as the parts to be per- forated are firm, their division might be accom- plished sufficiently well; and the inconvenience of a trivial difficulty in the introduction of the trocar is comparatively much less, than that which would attend the danger of wounding with a sharper point the membrane of the tympanum. I would plunge the point of the instrument into the place, where the opening of the meatus au- ditorius externally ought naturally to be, and which would be denoted, either by a slight de- pression, or at all events by attending to the different parts of the ear, especially, the tragus, which is situated directly over this passage. I would push in the trocar gently, in the direction of the canal formed in the bone, until the point of the instrument felt as if it had reuched a vacant space. Then, withdrawing the trocar, and leav- ing the cannula, I would try, whether the patient could hear. I would then introduce into the cavity of the cannula itself a small, rather firm tent, of the length of the passage, or a small bougie. By means of a probe, I would push it to the end of the cannula, which I would now take out, observing to press upon the tent,