AMAUROSIS. 45 more severe; the eye-sight continues to grow decidedly worse; and, from this period, the pa- tient not only discerns all objects very feebly, but in an imperfect mishapen- manner. At length, the front of the sinus not only projects forwards, but forms a swelling, which has the softness of cartilage, in which stage, vision is quite abolished, and all sensibility to light is de- stroyed. With respect to an explanation of the manner, in which the alleged cause of this form of amau- rosis operates, Beer is more reserved than on some other occasions, and declines offering any hypothesis: he merely states his belief, that actual inflammation within the frontal sinus has a prin- cipal share in bringing on the blindness. As for the prognosis, Beer thinks that some hope of the recovery of sight may be entertained, when vision is not already completely gone, and, in particular, that this benefit may be expected from judicious treatment, when the objects, which the patient is yet capable of discerning, have not a perverted, false, deformed appearance. On the contrary, nearly every hope is past, if all sensibi- litv to light is not only quite annihilated, but the eye-ball more or less pushed from its socket by the distention of the frontal sinus. With regard to local treatment, if the case be not too far advanced, the indications and reme- dies are here exactly the same as those recom- mended in speaking of a former case of amaurosis from the sudden stoppage of a catarrh. In the present instance, while the pain is violent and in- cessant, there is still greater necessity for avoiding all irritating means, on account of the inflamed state of the frontal sinus Therefore, in the early stage of the disease, when the pain is violent, and when during its prevalence the blindness threatens to augment rapidly, leeches should be applied to the temple, and, if there be any symptomatic fever, a moderate general antiphlogistic treatment ought to be adopted. When the pain about the root of the nose and frontal sinus has considera- bly declined ; when it has become dull ami irre- gular ; when th~ mucous membrane of the nose is moist, soft, and tumiu ; when the patient feels disposed to blow his nose every moment, and he can do this without at all increasing the pain in the frontal sinus, or eye itself; then the first oppor- tunity has arrived for the use of stimulants, re- commended in speaking of the amaurosis from suppressed catarrh. They are to be employed, however, with the utmost caution. Blisters are to be laid on the eyebrow, and afterwards lini- ments rubbed upon the same part, and about the root of the nose, such as spiritus camphorae, naphtha, and tincture of opium. Internal altera- tives should likewise be ordered, especially arnica, conjoined with guaiacum, and camphor. When by this local and general treatment no discharge of muc^s is obtained from the nose, and the symptoms are not materially lessened; but, on the contrary, the eyeball commences to protrude from the orbit; or, should this change already have happened, together with a projection of the anterior parietes of the frontal sinus ; then, if this portion of the skull be yet firm and unyielding, there is no other resource left hut that of making a perforation into the sinus with a small trephine; °r, if the bone be soft enough, the opening may be made with a common perforator. In this manner, an outlet is formed for the mucus and matter collected in the sinus, to which cavity any requisite applications may now be directly made. Beer says, the case is now to be treated as an ill-conditioned ulcer, and he asserts, that it may sometimes be proper to destroy altogether the mucous membrane, which lines the sinus; a pro- ceeding which I have great difficulty in supposing to be correct. If the surgeon defer making an opening too long, Beer says, that the eye is ra- pidly destroyed, and the mischief of the bones in the orbit extends so quickly from the orbitar process of the frontal bone to the os ethmoides, os unguis, &c. that it is now difficult to put a stop to the ravages of the disorder. Beer in- forms us of one case, which lie had under bis care, where be trephined the frontal sinus, and every thing went on so favourably after the operation, that, in the end, no deformity was apparent, the eyeball returned into the orbit, and sight was restored. In a second example, also treated by the same author, after the per- foration of the sinus, its lower part was found quite softened and carious: the treatment was consequently accommodated to the diseased state of the bone. In this case Beer simply made and preserved a counter opening in the conjunctiva above the eye, the sight of which was already quite gone. In a third case, the accumulation of mucus and pus in the sinus was obvious; but the patient refused to submit to any operation, and, five weeks after Beer had been first consulted, the front of the sinus gave way, and, in the seventh week, the eye, the greater part of the orbit, and the bones of the nose, were destroyed, and the other eye completely amaurotic. (See Lehre von dtn Augenkr. B. 2. p. 566—71.) C. Of the sympathetic amaurosis in lying- iv- wimien, from suppression of the secretion of milk. This case is set down by Beer as one of the most uncommon varieties of amaurosis. It comes on rapidly, after sudden stoppage of the secretion and excretion of the milk, with violent headach, concentrated about the forehead and eyebrows; troublesome luminous appearances ; an inconsi- derable dilatation of the pupil; and scarcely any perceptible irregularity in the pupillary edge of the iris, which is quite motionless, somewhat al- tered in colour, and swollen. The disease is also accompanied with great aversion to light; a pal- pable turgescence of all the blood-vessels of the conjunctiva ; a slight turbidness of the transpa- rent media of the eye; and, at first, with a mere weakness of sight, which, in the end, sud- denly changes into complete amaurotic blindness. The breasts, which before the attack were full of milk, are now empty, and hang down like bags, but are quite free from pain. Beer is of opinion, that this form of amaurosis must' be regarded us a true sympathetic effect, the cause depending upon the suppressed secre- tion of milk. This, says be, is proved, not only by the amaurotic blindness immediately following the stoppage of such secretion, but also by the method of treatment. It is acknowledged, how- ever, that a further investigation o( this part of the subject would he attended with great ob- scurity. As far as this eminent oculist can speak, from the few cases, which he has hud an oppor-