*82 FRACTURES. cannot be) we should not have the power of com- pletely bending, or extending our limbs ; for as soon as the set of muscles, designed for this pur- pose, were partly relaxed by the half-flexion, or half-extension of the joint, they would be de- prived of all further power. Therefore, in ad- dition to the arguments to be brought against the bent posture, arising from its not actually relaxing all the muscles connected with the broken bone, we are also to take into the ac- count the fact, that the partial relaxation of any muscle by no means incapacitates it from acting. In the earlier editions of this Dictionary, I expressed a preference to Mr. Pott’s method of treating broken thighs. More mature reflec- tion, however, and subsequent experience, have made me a convert to the sentiments of Desault on this subject. The terrible compound frac- tured thighs, which I had under my care in the campaign in Holland in the year 1814, could not have been at all retained by any apparatus put merely upon the thigh itself. The supe- riority of long splints, extending the whole length of the limb, was in these cases particu- larly manifest. With such splints, which main- tain steady the fracture itself, the knee, leg, ankle, and foot, your patient may, in fact, even be removed upon an emergency from one place to another, without any considerable disturbance of the broken part. But, how could this be done in the bent position, with short splints, merely applied to the thigh, affording no support to the leg, and not confining the motions of the knee, and foot? There are some excellent remarks on the treatment of fractured thighs in Lea QHuvres Chirurgicalcs de Desault pur Bichat. It is ob- served, that, if we compare the natural powers of displacement with the artificial resistance of almost every apparatus, we shall find, that the disproportion between such forces is too great to let the former yield to the latter. The action of the muscles, however, which is always at first very strong, may afterwards be gradually di- minished by the extension exercised on them. A power incessantly operating can effect, what another greater power temporarily applied, can- not at once accomplish, and the compression of circular bandages tends also to lessen the force of the muscles. Desault cured in the Hotel-Dieu an immense number of fractured thighs, without any kind of deformity. It was particularly to the well-com- bined employment of extension, and compression of the muscles, that such success was owing. The advantage of keeping the muscles a long while extended, in order to diminish their power, is especially evident in the reduction of certain dislocations, as those of the shoulder, in which we often cannot succeed till the muscles have been kept on the stretch for a greater, or lesser time. The fracture of the patella and olecranon equally demonstrates the utility of compression for the same purpose; as when the muscles are not compressed by the bandage, they draw up- ward the fragment of bone with double or triple force. • Against reducing fractured thighs in the bent posture, Desault entertained the following objec- tions : the difficulty of making the extension and counter-extension, when the limb is so placed; the necessity of then applying them to the fractured bone itself, instead of a situation remote from the fracture, as, for example, the lower part of the leg ; the impossibility of com- paring with precision the broken thigh with the sound one, in order to judge of the regularity of its shape; the irksomeness of this position long continued, though it may at first seem most na- tural; the inconvenient and painful pressure of a part of the trunk on the great trochanter of the affected side; the derangement, to which the limb is exposed when the patient has a motion; the difficulty of fixing the leg firmly enough to prevent the eflect of its motion on the thigh- bone; the manifest impossibility of adopting this method, when both thighs are fractured; lastly, experience in France having been little in favour of such posture. Also, what is gained by the relaxation of some muscles, is lost by the tension of others. For such reasons, (certainly strong ones,) Desault abandoned the bent position, and always em- ployed the straight one, which was advised by Hippocrates, and all the Greek physicians. Petit, Heister, and Duverney, recommend applying the extending means just above the condyles of the os femoris. Dupouy was one of the first to remark, that this practice render- ed it necessary to employ very great force, and that it would be better to make the extension from the foot. Fabre takes into consideration also the inconvenience of the pressure, made on the muscles, which, irritating and stimulating them to action, multiplies the obstacles to setting the fracture. For nearly similar motives, De- sault espoused their doctrine, introduced it at the Hotel-Dieu, and the success which he ex- perienced from the practice, contributed mate- rially to its more extensive adoption. Desault, as \\e have stated, preferred the straight posture, and laid his patients on sur- faces, not likely to sink with the weight of the body. The feather beds, formerly in common use at the Hotel-Dieu, had this inconvenience; for these, in cases of fractures, Desault substi- tuted a firm, tolerably hard mattress, which did not allow the continual change of posture to occur, which a soft bed does. The object of every apparatus being to keep the ends of the fracture from being displaced, the mechanism of every contrivance, for this purpose, should be directed against the causes of the displacement. These are, I. the action of the muscles, drawing upward the lower end of the fracture; 2. the weight of the trunk propelling downward the upper end. Hence, every apparatus, intended to prevent displacement of a thigh fractured obr liquelv, should, 1. draw and keep downward the lower end of the fracture; 2. carry and maintain upward the upper end of the fracture, and the trunk, which is above it. This principle is of general application, and only subject to a few exceptions in transverse fractures, attended^ merely with displacement in the direction of the diameter of the limb, or else none at all. 3. There must also be in the apparatus a resistance to the rotation of the lower portion of the broken bone, so as to keep the limb steady, even in case of any sudden motion. If we compare the operation of the different pieces of our apparatus with the above indica-