UTE UTE 1126 puytren, Langenbeck, and others, and tlie cases, published by Mr. Newnham and Mr. Windsor, where the inverted and irreducible uterus was suc- cessfully extirpated, furnish sufficient evidence in favor of the practice, without referring to numer- ous other cases reported on older authorities, the correctness of some of which may be questionable. In fact, polypi, growing from the uterus, fre- quently attain so considerable a size, that they protrude out of the vagina, and are occasionally mistaken for the uterus itself. The surgeon ex- tirpates the tumor with a ligature; the operation does not undeceive him about the nature of the part; his patient has a favourable recovery; and the case is published as an instance of the suc- cessful extirpation of the uterus itself. Although it is easy to distinguish the inver- sion of the uterus, which happens soon after delivery, it is not so to make out the nature of such cases, as happen in other circumstances, notwithstanding the presence of the same kind of symptoms. As cases of the latter kind are un- common, and, consequently, not expected, mis- takes are the more liable to be made. A poly- pus has often been mistaken for an inversion of the uterus, but, it should be recollected, that the upper part of a polypus is always narrow; and the tumor, which is not very sensible, is irreducible; whereas, the uterus, in a state of incomplete inversion, forms a semi-sphe- rical swelling, sometimes a little oblong, but always broader above than below. It is very sensible, and may generally be reduced. And, when the inversion is complete, the tumor has a greater resemblance to a polypus, inasmuch as it seems to have a pedicle, but, the impossibility of introducing a probe far at the circumference of such pedicle, as can be done in cases of polypi, will generally serve.at once as a criterion of the nature of the disease. The greatest obscurity in the diagnosis is said to prevail when the inversion is partial and chro- nic, because the os uteri then encircles the sum- mit of the tumor, just as it does a polypus, and, in both cases, the finger will pass all round between the parts. (See Newnham's Essay on Inversio Uteri, with a History of the success- ful Extirpation of that Organ, p. 82, 8 vo. Lond. 1818.) However, as I do not believe with this gentleman, that the neck of a polypus is fre- quently as large, and sometimes larger, than it's inferior portion, I should yet expect, that the difference in the form of the two swellings, per- ceptible on manual examination, would here be an important criterion. In general, also, the fact, that inversion of the uterus first happens, at or soon after delivery, is a consideration, that would tend to a right discrimination of the cases, inas- much as the first protrusion of a polypus directly after delivery, is rare, and, when it does happen, under these circumstances, is probably always complete, and not partial. Reduction is the only plan, whether the case has arisen from the weight of a polypus, or from uterine hemorrhage. However, this proceeding is generally useless, when the disease originates from obesity. In the latter case, as the cause still continues in full force, the uterus is soon tiotis on the subject of inversion of the womb, in the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, Ed. 4, I shall here conclude with referring to some works, in which the reader will find valuable instruction on the subject. F. B. Wachter, dc Prolapsu ct Inversione Uteri, Ilaloe, 1745. Act. Naturae Cur. Vol. C, Ohs. 107, uterus felieiter extirpatns. Nauchc, des Maladies de I’Uterus, 8vo. Paris, 1816. Osiander, Neue Denkwurdigkeiten, 1 B. p. 307. Sabatier, Medecine Operatoirc, T. 2. Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 23, p. 287. IV. Newnham, on the Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment of Inversio Uteri, with a History of the successful Ex- tirpation of that Organ, during the Chronic Stage of the Disease. 8vo. Loud. 1818. J. Windsor, Ohs. on Inversion of the Utcru3, with a Case of successful Extirpation of that Organ, Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10,p. 358, <§*c. Den- man's Plates of a Polypus, with an Inversion of the Uterus, 1801. Dr. Baillie's Scries of Engravings, Spc., Ease. 9, Tab. 5. Cleghor n, in Med. \Communications, Vol. 2 : a chronic case. E. B. Herzog de Inversione Uteri, 4to. Wirceb. 1817. UTERUS, POLYPI OF. I See Polypus* UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF. The womb, situated in the upper and middle part of the pel vis, is but imperfectly secured in its natural placa by means of its broad and round ligaments: hence, it sometimes descends into the lessei cavity of the pelvis, so as to pass more or less down the vagina, or even protrude beyond tin labia. The first case is the incomplete; th« second, the complete prolapsus uteri. In the first form of the disease, where the ute rus has not passed down so low as to protrudf externally, some of the complaints, which th patient experiences, depend upon the pres ure of the displaced viscus upon the parts u accustomed to it, particularly the bladder a rectum; while other inconveniences arise froj the tension of the ligaments, destined to reta the organ in its natural position. These grievances are chiefly a sense of heaviness in t pelvis, and a dragging pain in the loins ; sy ptoins, which are aggravated, when the patii sits up, or walks about; but diminish when remains in bed, though, as the disease, win neglected, scarcely ever fails to grow won they rarely subside altogether. However, sul amendment actually sometimes happens, in ca sequence of the parts becoming gradually hat uated to their change of situation. When disease comes on with great suddenness, the sy ptoms are remarked to be much more severe, t when it takes place slowly : in the first case, 1 continued syncope, pain over the whole abdotr tenesmus, uterine hemorrhage, infiammatio the peritonaeum, and severe febrile svmpt< may be excited. With regard to the effects, caused by the pr ure of the tumor on the bladder and rectum, consist of more or less difficulty in voiding urine and feces. The dysury and constipi increase in proportion as the patient contii in an upright posture, and the uterus deset nearer to the inferior orifice of the vag P — i!nn 4 l-i n irrWnfinn lirinrrc mi n r»n K