HYDROPHOBIA. 673 rect, that rabies is more frequent in the north, than in the temperate piyts of Europe ; for, De la Fontaine particularly notices how extremely rare it is in Poland. (Chir. Med. Abhandl. Breslau, 1792.) The disease is reported to be very comryon in Prussian Lithuania ; but mad dogs are seldom, or never heard of, at Arch- angel, Tobolsk, or in the country nortl; of St. Petersburg. In Mr. MeyneU’s account, which was com- municated to him by a physician, it is asserted, that the complaint never arises from hot weather, nor putrid provisions, nor from any cause except the bite; for, however dogs have been confined, however fed, or whatever may have been the heat of the season, the disorder never com- menced, without a possibility of tracing it to the preceding cause, nor was it ever introduced into the kennel, except by the bite of a mad dog. (See art Dog, in Rees's Cyclopaedia.) Dr. Gillman endeavours to prove, that the dis- ease in dogs is probably excited independently of particular climates, of putrid aliment, of deficiency of water, of want of perspiration, or, of the worm under the tongue, to which causes it has been at different times ascribed, and he expresses his belief, that it originates somewhat like typhus in the human subject, and is not always pro- duced by inoculation, or by means of a bite. He thinks that it may be occasionally brought on by the confinement of dogs, without exercise, in close and filthy kennels; and that the success of Mr. Trevalyan, as related by Dr. Bardsley, in clearing his kennel of the disease, by changing even the pavement, after other means of puri- fication had failed, affords presumptive evidence in favor of the opinion; and, consequently, this author thinks, that the method of quarantine, adopted by Mr. Meynell, and recommended by Dr. Bardsley, on the supposition, that the dis- ease originates exclusively from contagion, will not be a sufficient preventive alone; and he in- fers, from some facts, reported by Mr. Daniel, that the poison sometimes lies dormant in dogs four, five, and six months ; and, consequently, that the period of two months is not a sufficient quarantine. (See Gillman s Diss. on the Bite of a Rabid Animal.) In opposition, however, to some of the senti- ments contained in the foregoing passage, it should be known, that Dupuytren, Magendie, and Breschet, have purposely kept many dogs for a long time in the most disgusting state of nncleanliness, let them even die in tjiis condition for want of food and water, or even devour each other, yet without exciting rabies. (Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 53.) Yet Professor Rossi, of Turin, is said, to have produced this, or some similar disease in cats, by keeping them shut up in a room. (Mdm. de VAcad. Imp. de Turin, 1805, a 1808, p. 9.1, de la Notice des Travaux.) On the whole I consider it well proved, that neither long thirst, hunger, eating putiid flesh, nor filth, will occasion the disease in the canine race. At Aleppo, where these ani- mals perish in great numbers from want of food and water, and the heat of the climate, the di- stemper is said to be unknown- Nor is rabies found to attack dogs and cats, with particular frequency during the copulating season, and therefore, the oestrus veneris cannot lie admitted to have any share in its production, as some writers have been disposed to believe. (See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 55.) Although most writers believe in the reality of a poison, or specific infectious principle, in cases of rabies, the fact has been questioned, or abso- lutely rejected by others. Bosquillon considered the disease always as the effect of fear, or arc impression upon the imagination. This view of the matter is far from being new, and has been ably refuted by many authors, and, especially by M. Desault, of Bordeaux, who remarks, that horses, asses, and mules, quibus non est intcl- lectus, had died rabid the very year in which he wrote ; and, it is observed by Dr. J. Vaughan, that an infant in the cradle is sometimes attacked, while many timorous children escape. Another notion has partially prevailed, that rabies does not depend upon any vims, but upon the continuance of an irritation in the bitten parts, affecting the whole nervous system. (Per- .cival; J. Mease; Girard; S[C.) But, this doctrine confounds rabies and tetanus together, and can only apply to the symptomatic non- infectious hydrophobia from an ordinary wound, or laceration. The facts, in proof of the reality of a peculiar infectious principle in cases of rabies, are too numerous to leave any doubt upon the subject. Twenty-three individuals were bit one morning by a female wolf, of whom thirteen died in the course of a few months, besides several cows, which had been injured by the same animal. How could all these unfortunate persons have had similar symptoms, and especially a horror of fluids, had they not been all under the influence of some cause, besides the bites? The patients who died, were bit on the naked skin ; while in the others, who escaped infection, the bites hap- pened through their clothes, which no doubt in- tercepted the saliva, the vehicle of the virus. In the Essay by Le Roux, mention is made of three persons, bit by a rabid wolf near Autun, in July, 1781, and, notwithstanding mercurial frictions, they all died of hydrophobia. Of ten other indi- viduals bit by a wolf, nine died rabid. (Rey, Mem. de la Soc. Royalc de Med. p. 147.) Twenty-four persons were injured in the same manner near Rochelle, and eighteen of them perished. (Andry, Richerches sur la Rage, Ed. 3, p. 196.) On the 27th January, 1780, fifteen individuals were bit by a mad dog, and attended at Senlis by the commissioners of the French Royal Society of Physic; ten had received the bites on the naked flesh, and five through their clothes. Of the first ten, only five lost their lives, three of them dying of decided rabies between the 27th of February, and the 3d of April; and the other two between the 29th of Februaiy, and the 18th of March. Unless the opinion be adopted, that the disease is caused by an infec- tious principle, a sort of inoculation, it would be impossible rationally to explain the cause of so many deaths from the bites of rabid animals. If the idea, that rabies originates from fear, or ner- vous irritation were true, how could we account for there being such a difference between the usual consequences of the bite of a healthy dog, and those of the bite of one affected with rabies? Healthy dogs are incessantly quar- reling, and biting each other in the streets, vet XX