HERNIA. 62!) parts, and there is no necessity to touch the ligament, as it never occasions the strangula- tion.—(Gimbcrnat, p. 27.) Gimbernat’s method of dividing the stricture, in cases offemoral hernice, is now frequently re- garded as the safest and most effectual “ In- troduce, along the internal side of the intestine, a cannulated or grooved sound, with a blunt end, and a channel of sufficient depth. This is to be directed obliquely inwards, till it enter the crural ring, which will be known by the increased re- sistance ; as also when its point rests upon the branch of the os pubis. Then suspend the in- troduction; and keeping the sound (with your left hand, if you are operating on the right side, and v. v.) firmly resting upon the branch of the os pubis, so that its back shall be turned towards the iutestine, and its canal to the symphysis pubis, introduce .gently with your other hand, into the groove of the sound, a bistoury, with a narrow blade and blunt end, till it enter the ring. Its entry will be known, as before, by a little in- crease of resistance. Cautiously press the bis- toury- to the end of the canal: and employing your two hands at once, carry both instruments close along the branch to the body of the pubis, drawing them out at the same time. By this easv operation, you will divide the internal edge of "the crural arch at its extremity, and within four or five lines of its duplicature; the re- mainder continuing firmly attached, by the in- ferior band, or pillar, of which it is the continua- tion. This simple incision being thus made, without the smallest danger, the internal border of the arch, which forms the strangulation, will be considerably relaxed, and the parts will be reduced with the greatest ease.” (Gimbcrnat, p. 45, 46.) Mr. A. Cooper recommends the stricture to be divided “ obliquely inwards and upwards, at right angles to the crural arch.” After advising us to open the sac of a femoral hernia, with particular care, on account of its being much thinner than that of a bubonocele, and (as might be added) on account of its seldom containing any fluid, and often having no omen- tum in it covering the intestine, Mr. Hey re- marks, “ The stricture made upon the prolapsed parts is very great, as I have already observed ; but if the tip of the finger can be introduced within the femoral ring, to guide the bubonocele knife, a small incision (for the ring is narrow) will be sufficient to set the parts at liberty. If the tip of the finger cannot be introduced at the ^proper place, a director with a deep groove must be used instead of the finger; but I prefer the latter. The finger, or director, should not be in- troduced very near the great vessels; but on that side of the intestine or omentum which is nearest to the symphysis of the ossa pubis. The incision may then be made directly upwards. The sur- geon must take especial care to introduce his finger or director within that part where he finds the stricture to be the greatest, which, in this species of hernia, is the most interior part of the wound” (7^.155.) Gimbernat’s mode is preferable to Mr. Iley’s, because, were the operation done on a male, cut- ting directly upward would endanger the sper- •inatic cord. Mr. Lawrence has noticed, that “an incision of the most interior part of the stricture is free from all danger, in the ordinary course of the vessels. But that variety, in which the obturatrix artery-, arising from the epigastric, runs along the inner margin of the sac, seems to preclude us from cutting even in this direction.” Hesselbach met with a remarkable instance of such irregularity in the origin and course of the obturatrix artery in the body of a female, in whom there were two small crural herniae. On the right side, the epigastric and obturatrix arteries arose, by a common trunk, from the crural artery below Poupart’s ligament. They soon separated from one another; the epigastric taking its ordinary course upwards at the outer side of the neck of the hernial sac, while the obturatrix made a con- siderable turn, and ran transversely inwards over the strong fibres of the femoral ligament, and encircled the anterior and inner side of the neck of the hernia, whence it afterwards proceeded obliquely downwards and outwards, behind the horizontal branch of the os pubis, towards the ob- turator foramen. (Hesselbach, p. 52.) A mode of operating has been lately proposed, (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, Vol. 2, 205.) with a view of avoiding this danger. We are directed to make an incision through the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, just above the crural arch, and in a direction parallel to that part: to introduce a director under the stricture from this opening, and to divide the tendon to the requisite extent, by means of a curved knife passed along the groove. (Treatise on Ruptures, Edit. 3, p. 407.) For reasons which Mr. Lawrence states, this plan is certainly not altogether eligible, and, upon the whole, Gimbernat’s method of cutting the stricture is the safest. Monro computes, that the obturator artery may arise from tire epigastric, once in twenty-five or thirty sub- jects. But, allowing that it originates more fre- quently, it then does not always deviate from its usual course along the outside of the sac. Mr. A. Cooper says: “ in all cases, which I have myself dissected, where this variety existed with crural hernia, the obturator has passed into the pelvis, on the outer side of the neck of the sac, entirely out of the reach of any danger of the knife.” (On Crural Hernia, p. 21.) Mr Law- rence concludes, that the comparative number of instances, in which it is found on the opposite side, pannot be more than one in twenty, and consequently if we admit, that the obturatrix artery arises from the epigastric once in five times, it would only be liable to be wounded once in a hundred operations. (P. 412, Edit. 3.) When the origin and course of the epigastric artery differ from what is common, this vessel, as Hesselbach remarks, sometimes passes in- wards along the horizontal branch of the os pubis, ere it ascends towards the rectus muscle; and when this variation exists in a case of femoral hernia, the artery does not pass over the outer side of the neck of the sac, but first under it, and then round its inner side Hesselbach has seen only one instance of this irregularity of the epi- gastric artery in a female, and never in a male subject. (Ur.ber den Ursprnng, Sj;c. dcr Lcisten- und Schcnkelhruche, p. 52.) The industrious Cloquet examined 2oO bodies, for the purpose of estimating the average number of cases, in which the origin and course of the