xition of the abdominal muscles is a much ore rational and useful object. When this is operly attended to, and the above directions iserved, and the wound is not exceedingly nail, in relation to the bulk of the protruded j ;.seera, the parts may generally be reduced, ut, in addition to what has been already stated, is necessary to remark, that the pressure i ould be made in a straight direction into the idomen ; for, when made obliquely, towards the Jg’es of the wound, ihe parts are liable to suffer i mtusion, without being reduced, and even to ide between the layers of the abdominal uscles, and become strangulated. When the ound is in the front of the abdomen, pressure ade in this unskilful way, may force the viscera . to the sheath of the rectus muscle, and cause fcue same perilous symptoms as arise from an in- carcerated hernia. (See Hernia.) When the reduction seems complete, the sur- eon should assure himself of it, by introducing i is finger into the cavity of the abdomen, so as a feel that the parts are all actually reduced, id suffer no constriction between the edges of re wound and the viscera in the abdomen. A difficulty of reduction may arise from the rotruded intestines being distended with feces r air. In this circumstance, the contents of le gut may frequently be made to pass, by de- •rees, into that portion of the intestinal canal, 'hich is within the abdomen. In order to ecomplish this purpose, the surgeon must press i ie contents of the bowel towards the wound, und, if he succeeds in emptying the part, he will c ommonly experience equal success in his next ; ttempt to replace it in the abdomen. Sometimes, in cases of narrow stabs, consi- • erable pieces of intestine protrude, and cannot - e reduced without doing imprudent violence to the bowel. Under these circumstances, the di- . itation of the wound is indispensable. However, •hen the reduction seems almost a matter of s impossibility, on account of the smallness of the »round, if the surgeon be careful to relax the ab- I ominal muscles, draw a little more intestine out if the wound, and gently press the contents of he bowel, through the constriction into the ab- : lomen, he will frequently succeed in reducing he parts, without using the knife. When such operation is unavoidable, the di- ctation should be made in a direction, which |'rill not endanger the epigastric artery, and, if possible, in the same line as the muscular fibres. We are also advised to make the incision ipward, rather than downward, when it can >e done with equal convenience, because it s supposed the first direction will be followed by kess danger of hernia. (Sabatier, M&decinc, Opiratoire, T. 1, p. 220, Ed. 2. CaUiscn, [\5>'y»t. Chir. Hod. T. 1,//. 705.) If, however, he upper angle of the wound correspond to the lirection of the suspensory ligament of the liver, vriters advise making the dilatation at the lower I ingle, in order to incur no risk of hemorrhage rom the umbilical vein. In the adult, this vessel is {enerally obliterated, and turned into a ligatncn- ous substance; though it would appear that, in i few instances, it remains pervious to the navel. Iildanus saw a young man die instantly in con- lequence of a stab in the belly between the false ibs and the umbilicus, and, on opening the body, bilical cutting WOUNDS. 1209 he found blood effused from a wound of the um- vein. It has been feared, also, that the suspensory ligament of the liver, might give rise to such a displacement of that viscus, as would interrupt the freedom of re- spiration, or obstruct the circulation of the blood in the vena cava. But the apprehension is un- founded ; for Riolan found this ligament rup- tured and retracted towards the liver in a nimble ^Ethiopian female dancer, whose respiration had not suffered any particular disturbance during her life-time. (Sabatier, Med. Operatoirc, T. ' 1, p. 220, 221, Ed.2.) The incision should never be larger, than ab- solutely requisite, as hernia is much disposed to occur, wherever the peritoneum has been divided. The operation may be done with a curved bis- toury and a director, much in the same way as is done in cases of strangulated ruptures. (See Hernia.) After the battle of Waterloo, many cases pre- sented themselves, in which the bowels and omentum protruded, and in several of these exam- ples, the reduction could not be effected before the wounds had been enlarged. So tightly also were the parts girt, that the operation was some- times far from being easy. Instead of enlarging wounds of the abdomen, it has been proposed to let out the air from the protruded intestines, by making small punctures with a needle, so as to lessen their volume suffi- ciently to make them reducible. The suggestion first originated with Pare, who declares, that he has practised the method with success. Rousset, his contemporary, also informs us, that the plan was adopted by another surgeon in an instance, where the epigastric region was wounded, and a large portion of the intestinesprotruded in a stran- gulated state. Peter Lowe, an English surgeon, likewise assures us, that he frequently adopted the practice, when other means failed. Garen- geot, Sharp, and Van Swieten, are all advocates for Pare’s proposal; but they recommend the employment of a round needle, which will merely separate the fibres of the intestinal canal, without cutting them, as a flat, triangular, sharp edged needle would unavoidably do. These last writers, however, only sanction the practice, when the quantity of protruded intestine is great, and the bowel is so enormously distended with air, that it would be impossible to reduce the part, though the wound were enlarged, and every thing else put in practice, likely to bring about the reduc- tion. But, as Sabatier remarks, the punctures must be entirely useless, if made with a fine needle, since they will be immediately stopped up with the mucous secretion, with which the in- side of the bowels is constantly covered; and if the punctures are made with a broad triangular needle, or a very large round one, as Desault and (Jhopart advise, they must be highly dan- gerous, inasmuch as they are likely to give rise to inflammation, and even to extravasation, within the abdomen. (MtAccinc Operatoire, r. l, p. io.) That small punctures in the bowel would not answer the purpose, but be obstructed by the villous, or mucous coat, is a fact, which has been for a long time well known to surgeons. Cal- liscn, amongst others, has particularly noticed it: “ acu punctura enim flatibus exituni parare nc-