11 58 VENEREAL here, a bubo in the groin may be occasioned in the same manner as iri men. Owing to the difficulty of being sure, that women are quite free from infection, it is often more difficult to decide in them, than in men, whether a bubo is venereal, or not. In men, who have had no local complaint, the bubo can only be venereal, when direct absorption from the surface of the skin has taken place. A bubo, says Mr. Hunter, commonly begins with a sense of pain, which leads the patient to examine the part, where a small hard tumor is to be felt. This increases, like every other inflam- mation, that has a tendency to suppuration, and, unless checked, pus forms, and ulceration fol- lows, the matter making its way to the skin very fast. The above celebrated writer remarks, however, that there are some cases, which are slow in their progress. This circumstance he imputes either to the inflammatory process being kept back by mercury, or other means, or to its being re- tarded by a scrophulous tendency. The inflammation, he says, is at first confined to the gland, which may be moved about in the cellular membrane; but, when the part has be- come enlarged, or when the inflammation, and suppuration, are more advanced, the surround- ing parts become more inflamed, and the tumor is more diffused. Some buboes become compli- cated with an erysipelatous and oedematous affec- tion, by which they are rendered more diffused, and less disposed to suppurate. Mr. Hunter allows, that to distinguish, with cer- tainty, the true venereal bubo from other swellings of the glands in the groin, may be very difficult. He represents the true venereal bubo, in con- sequence of a chancre, as being most commonly confined to one gland. It preserves its specific distance till suppuration has taken place, and then becomes more diffused. It is rapid in its pro- gress from inflammation to suppuration and ul- ceration. The suppuration is commonly large, considering the size of the gland, and there is only one abscess. The pain is very acute, and the inflamed part of the skin is of a florid red colour. Mr. Hunter describes such buboes, as arise without any visible cause, as being of two kinds. One sort inflame and suppurate briskly. These he always suspected to be venereal, although he al- lows, there was no proof of it, and only a pre- sumption deduced from the quick progress of the disease. The second kind are generally preceded, and attended with slight fever, or the common sym- ptoms of a cold, and they are generally indolent and slow in their progress. If they are quicker than ordinary, they become more diffused than venereal buboes, and they are often not confined to one gland. When very slow, they give but little sensation ; but, when quicker, the sensa- tion is more acute, though not so much so as in venereal cases. They usually do not suppurate, and often become stationary. When they do sup- purate, it is in a slow manner, and, frequently, in more glands, than one, while the inflammation is more diffused, and not considerable, in rela- tion to the swelling. The matter makes its way to the skin slowly, and the part affected is DISEASE. In considering whether the swellings of the inguinal glands are, or are not venereal, the first thing to be attended to is, whether, or not, there are any venereal complaints. If there are none, Mr. Hunter observes, that there is a strong presumptive proof, that the swellings are not venereal. When the swelling is only in one gland, very slow in its progress, and gives but little, or no pain, it is probably merely serophu- lous. However, when the swelling is consider- able, diffused, and attended with some inflamma- tion and pain, the constitution is most probab’v affected with slight fever, the symptoms of which are lassitude, loss of appetite, want of sleep, small quick pulse, and an appearance of approaching hectic. Such swellings are long in getting well, and do not seem to be affected by mercury, even when very early applied. Mr. Hunter mentions his having seen the above affection of the groin, together with the constitutional indisposition, take place, where there were chancres; and he was puzzled to determine, whether the disease in the groin was sympathetic, from derangement of the constitu- tion, or whether it arose from the absorption of matter. He had long suspected, that there was v a mixed case, and was at last certain, that such f a case might prevail. He had seen instances, !l. in which the venereal matter, like a cold, or fever, j f only irritated the glands to disease, produ- 1* cing in them scrophula, to which they were dis- ||q posed. In such cases, says Mr. Hunter, the swellings [■:. commonly arise slowly, give but little pain, and Ilk if mercury be given to destroy the venereal dis- j L position, their progress is accelerated. Some ;l«.v suppurate while under this resolving course; and 1', others, which probably had a venereal taint at > k first, become so indolent, that mercury has no effect upon them, and, in the end, they either It- get well of themselves, or by other means. According to Mr. Hunter, buboes are local complaints. TREATMENT OF BUBOES. When a bubo is judged to be venereal, and L only in an inflamed state, an attempt is to be ;| made to resolve the swelling. The propriety of t. the attempt, however, depends on the progress ‘1. which the disease has made. If the bubo be I very large, and suppuration appears to be near >'| • at hand, resolution is not likely to be effected. 1 When suppuration has already taken place, Mr. 1 Hunter much doubted the probability of any 1. success attending the endeavour, which now k may only retard the suppuration, and protract i ‘ the cure. The resolution of these inflammations, says fc Mr. Hunter, depends _principally on mercury, jj and almost absolutely on the quantity, which II can be made to pass Ihrough them. When IT suppuration has taken place, the cure also de- |i pends on the same circumstances. Hence, he jj recommended the mercury to be applied to such if surfaces, as allow the remedy, when absorbed, tojjl| pass through the diseased gland. In this man-jj) ner, he conceived, that the disease in the groiniH