214 BEL BLA not in a triangular, but a square form. You let one edge project about three finger-breadths be- yond the other, in order to form a general border for the bandage. You lay the handkerchief upon the head, so as to make the lower fold, to which the projecting border belongs, lie next the head; while the projecting border itself is left hanging over the eyes, till the bandage is ad- justed. The two corners of the outermost fold are first to be tied under the chin; the projecting border is then to be turned back, and pinned in a circular form round the face, while the corners of the fold next the head are to be carried back- ward and tied. After the outer corners of this bandage have been tied under the chin; after the inner corners have been drawn out and carried round the occi- put ; and after the border has been turned back and pinned; the doubling of the handkerchief over each side of the neck hangs in a loose awk- ward manner. It remains, therefore, to pin this part of the handkerchief up above the ear, as neatly as can be contrived. (See J. Bell’s Prin- ciples.) The grand couvre-chef has certainly nothing to recommend it, either in point of utility, or ele- gance. A common night-cap must always be infinitely preferable to it. In the event, how- ever, of a cap not being at hand, it is proper that the surgeon should know, what contrivances may be substituted to fulfil th6 objects in view. Having, in the numerous articles of this Dic- tionary, noticed the mode of applying bandages in particular cases,, and allotted a few separate descriptions for such bandages, as are not here mentioned, but, which are often spoken of in books, we shall conclude for the present, with re- ferring the reader for further information to Motherby’s Medical Dictionary; Rees’s Cyclo- pcedia; and John Bell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. 1. Galen and Vidus Vidius are reckoned the best of the old writers on the subject; M. Sue, Thilluye, Heister, Juville, Lombard, and Bern- stein, of the modern ones. The latter are said, how- ever, to he all tooprolix. (See Rees’s Cyclopaedia, art. Bandage.) BARK, Peruvian. (See Cinchona.) BELLADONNA. (Deadly Night-shade.) Is violently narcotic. The leaves were first used externally for discussing scirrhous swellings, and they have been subsequently given internally, in scirrhous and cancerous diseases, amaurosis, Ac. Five grains are reckoned a powerful dose: one is accounted enough to begin with. At present, the extract, as directed by the London College, is more commonly prescribed. From the power, which belladonna is known to possess, of lowering the action of the whole ar- terial system, it seems to be a fit medicine in many surgical cases, where that object is de- sirable, particularly in examples of aneurism. A very peculiar virtue, which belladonna has, is that of causing a dilatation of the pupil, when used as an external application to the eye-brow and eve-lids. The late Mr. Saunders was in the habit of employing belladonna a good deal for this express purpose. A little while before undertak- ing the operation for the congenital cataract, lie was accustomed to introduce some dissolved ex- tract of belladonna between the eye-lids, or rub the eye-brow and skin about the eye freely with the same application. The consequence was, that, if there were no adhesions of the iris to other parts, a full dilatation of the pupil was produced in less than an hour, and the whole of the cata- ract was distinctly brought into view. This was unquestionably a considerable improvement in practice, as the iris was kept out of danger, and the operation materially facilitated. I allude here more particularly to Mr. Saunders’s own method, in which he introduced the needle through the cornea, in front of the iris, and then conveyed it to the cataract through the enlarged pupil. Belladonna was also externally applied by Mr. Saunders, after the operation, with the view of preventing the edge of the iris from becoming adherent to the edges of the torn capsule. Stramonium is found to have the same effect' uport the iris, as belladonna. Some experi- ments, in which the fact is clearly proved, were detailed many years ago, by a namesake of mv own in the United States. (See A Dissertation on the Properties and Effects of the Datura Stra- monium, S^c. by Samuel Cooper, Philadelphia, 1797. C. Himly de la Paralysie de l’Iris par unc application local de Jusquiame, fyc. 2nd Ed. \2mo. Aliona, 1805. J. Bailey, Observations re- lative to the Use of Btlludonna in painful Disor- ders of the Head and Face, 8oo. Lond. 1818.) BINOCULUS. (from binus, double, and cculus, the eye.) A bandage for keeping dress- ings on both eyes. Its application will easily be understood by referring to Motmrulus. BISTOURY. (Bistairr, French.) Any small knife for surgical purposes. BLADDER, Puncture of. This is an ope- ration, to which we are obliged to have recourse, after having in vain employed all the other means indicated for preventing the bad, and even fatal consequences of a stoppage of the evacuation of the urine, and distention of the bladder. Various accidents, and diseases, both acute and chronic, may occasion this dangerous state, as will be more particularly noticed in the article, Urine, Reten- tion of. The bladder, which can conveniently hold about a pint and a half of urine, is no sooner dilated, so as to contain two pints, than uneasy sensations are experienced. The desire of discharging the water now becomes urgent, and if the inclination be not gratified, and the bladder be suffered to be dilated beyond its natural state, it loses all power of contraction, and becomes paralytic. The de- sire, indeed, continues, and the efforts are renewed in painful paroxysms; but, the power is lost, and the bladder becomes more and more distended. When this viscus is dilated in the utmost degree, and neither its own structure, nor the space in the abdomen, can allow a further distention; either the bladder must be lacerated, which it never is, so equally is it supported by the pressure of the surrounding parts, or its orifice must expand and the urine begin to How. After the third day of the retention, the urine often really begins to flow, and, whatever descends from the kidneys is evacuated in small quantities from time to time, and at this period, the bladder is distended in as great a degree, as it ever can be, however long the patient may survive. This dribbling of the urine, which begins, when the bladder is dilated