829 MORTIFICATION. lilt, I kj f rl!» 1 &'°l 1 , iavouY of what he endeavours to prove, viz. that, in cases of mortification from external injuries, f t|ie patient’s life is in danger, amputation oimht to be performed, although the sloughing mav vet be in a spreading state. I must be con- tent, however, with having stated the particulars already explained; and the reader, desirous of more, must refer to Larrey’s own publication. Certainly, the facts, which this gentleman lias adduced," are highly important: they tend to subvert a doctrine, and to prove the error of a practice, which have been urged in most forcible terms by most of the distinguished surgeons of .modern times. The sentiments of Mr. Sharp are rendered questionable; and the truth of the po- sitive assertions of Mr. Pott is yet a matter to be examined. The latter, it is well known, tells us, that he has often seen the experiment made of amputating, while a mortification was spread- ing, but never knew it answer. Are we to con- clude, that all these cases, which Pott alludes to, were mortifications from an internal cause ? Or, are we to suppose that the operation failed from having been delayed too long? Or, must we imagine, that the nature of the human consti- tution has been changed between the aera of Pott, and that of Larrey ? Ic should be remarked, that the practice of amputation, in cases of spreading mortification, has generally had some partisans for many years past; but the weight of authorities has un- questionably been against it, and few surgeons in this country have ventured to deviate from the advice of Sharp and Pott. It is curious, however, that Mehee, a writer who wrote for the express purpose of declaring his disapprobation of the early performance of amputation in gun- shot wounds, should have admitted of only one case, in which the operation is proper, namely, gangrene succeeding the wound made by a can- non shot. Here he thinks, that amputation ought to be performed on the first appearance of the gangrene, in order to prevent it from spread- ing up the limb. (See Traits, des Plaics d'Ar- mes it feu, Paris, 1799.) It appears, that about the year 1809, Mr. A. C. Hutchison performed with success two amputations in cases of spread- ing gangrene from gunshot wounds. i See Practical Observations on Surgery, p. 72.) My friend Mr. Lawrence has also success- fully amputated at the shoulder joint in a spread- ing mortification of the arm, the consequence of external violence. “ The skin of the amputated limb was greenish and livid; but the cuticle not yet detached. The cellular substance distended with air, and with a discoloured offensive sanies; its appearance was not quite natural, where the incision took place; it .was yellowish and ana- sarcous. Small effusions of blood were observed here and there in the course of the nerves; even as high as the amputated part. No coagulation of blood in any of the arteries, even down to the ulnar and digital branches. All the soft parts were discoloured, dark red, and livid, and a frothy reddish fluid issued on incision.” This case had the most favourable termination, and it clearly proves, that the humid kind of gangrene, which occurs in a healthy subject from severe ocal injury, which so rapidly affects a whole limb, and reaches the trunk in a few hours, must constitute an exception to the general maxim, that amputation should never be done, before a line of separation is established between the dead and living parts. Mr. Lawrence, however, would not be understood as meaning to recommend the practice in all instances of mortification from local injury. He conceives, that a gangrene may arise, in an unsound constitution, from a comparatively slight accident; so that it maybe regarded as the result of constitutional disposi- tion, rather than of the local cause. Amputation would be hopeless under such circumstances. It is particularly in mortification, following very severe injury, in a subject!otherwise healthy, that Mr. Lawrence believes the operation to be proper. (See Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 184.) Mr. Lawrence also reports another instance, in which he saw the operation succeed, though the mortification was in a spreading state. About three years ago, I was asked my opinion about the propriety of amputating at the shoulder in a spreadingmortification of the arm from external violence. The operation was done, and the patient lived a fortnight after- wards, which is favourable to the practice, in- asmuch as he would certainly have perished in a few hours, if the operation had not been done. Amongst the expeiienced approvers of Lar- rey’s advice, I must not omit to mention Ur. Hennen, who has repeatedly amputated, under the circumstances above pointed out, without waiting for the line of separation: “and (says he) although I certainly was not uniformly success- ful, I have no reason to imagine, that death was occasioned by a departure from the rule so ge- nerally laid down by authors.” {On Military Surgery, p. 248, Ed. 2.) With regard to the earl}' performance of am- putation, where the substance of a limb perishes after exposure to cold, I find some difference of sentiment between two very high authorities. Thus Schmueker observes: —“ The mortification, which comes on after a part has been frozen, increases so rapidly, if the limb be exposed to warmth, that, in the space of twenty-four hours, its vitality and organization are quite destroyed, and nothing will now avail in restoring its sen- sibility. Here the speedy performance of am- putation is the only means of preservation to be depended upon. In mortification from an in- ternal cause, the case is different.” (See Vcr- mischte Chirurgische Schriften, Ii.\, p. 15, 8vo. Berlin, 1785.) According to Larrey, however, this species of gangrene at length stops, and a line of separation forms between the dead and healthy parts. If the disorder be su- perficial, the sloughs are usually thrown oft’ be- tween the pinth and thirteenth days, leaving an ulcer of proportionate extent, that soon heals up. If the whole of the limb be sphacelated, nature cannot of herself effect a cure, or but very rarely, the patient mostly falling a victim to the effects of absorption, when the sloughs are de- tached, and the mouths of the lymphatics are opened on the occurrence of suppuration. Larrey assures us, that he has seen numerous patients carried off’ by this cause, while the examples of a spontaneous cure were exceedingly few, and, in these, the stump was left irregular, and unfit for bearing the pressure of a wooden leg. He