10 ALVINE CONCRETIONS. stances are more or less favourable to their re- tention or expulsion. Sometimes, they continue undischarged, until they have attained a very considerable size. In particular instances, in- stead of remaining constantly in one place, they successively pass through the" whole length of the intestinal tube, lodging at different points for a greater or lesser time. In the works of Haller and Conradi may be seen representations of the points of the intestinal canal, where these concretions have been found. The alvine concretion, of which Mareschal has given an account, was some years in traversing all the convolutions of the bowels. These gastric, or alvine concretions, which are very common in animals, are less fre- quent in the human subject, as the observations of Fourcroy and Vauqueiin prove ; which are in- serted in their valuable essay on this subject in the Annates flu, Museum Rationale d’Histnire Natu- re lie de Paris. In the horse, they are sometimes of an enormous size, as we may learn from an instance on record, in which the concretion weighed thirteen pounds. (Voigt, Magazinjur das Neueste der Naturkunde, 3 B. p. 378.) As for the third species, which Rubini names mixed, or lieputico-gastric, they have their beginning in the hepatic organs, and augment in the intestinal tube. Here if the extraneous body be detained, and the contents of the bowels have a disposition to become thickened and condensed round it, as a nucleus, it may be rendered larger by additional strata of matter, and would increase sine fine, if a stop were -not put to the augmentation by the narrowness of the canal, or an effort made for the expulsion of the concretion. Morgagni cites two instances of this sort of concretion : one, from Gemma; the other from Bezold ; and he gives his opinion, that another alvine calculus spoken of by Vater must have been of the same nature. Dr. Coe describes another interesting specimen ; and others are referred to by Vandermonde, Moreali, Portal, &c. Perhaps, says Rubini, the instances of this kind would have been more numerous, if all the concretions discharged from the bowels had been noted with greater attention, and thehepatico-gastric substances not confounded with the hepatic. The lodgment of these concre- tions in the intestinal canal is of uncertain duration, and depends upon a variety of circum- stances : Vandermonde gives the history of a calculus, which, as far as could be judged of by the pain in the right hypochondrium, and the change of symptoms, must have passed into the duodenum in the month of January, and then continued in the bowels until August, when it was discharged from the rectum. The crystallized appearance of alvine con- cretions is generally so conspicuous that it has not escaped the .attention of several of the old writers, as we may convince ourselves of by re- ferring to the works of Corn. Gemma, Greisel, Baglivi, Scultetus, Ac. It was noticed by Haller in his Elementa Physiologic, vol. 6', and by Morgagni in his Epist. 37. de Sedibns et Causis, &c. If, says Rubini, these crystalliza- tions are not always plainly visible, distinct, and regular, this depends either upon their imper- fection ; the heterogeneous nature of the ac- cumulated matter; or particular unfavourable circumstances, which equally affect the process of crystallization out of the body. Now, as all crystallizations depend upon the fluids, in which they form, and from which they receive their crystallizing elements, it must be evident that, inasmuch as the fluids of the hepatic organs differ in their constituent principles from the fluids contained in the intestinal canal, the concretions produced in the first system must differ from those, which originate in the second ; whilst the hepatico-gastric calculi will combine the nature and properties of both together. The fluid from which hepatic concretions are formed, is unquestionably the bile, either some or all its ingredients entering into their composition. Indeed, previously to the new chemical doctrines, hepatic calculi were generally considered as being simply condensed indurated bile. From investigations made in more modern times, however, when the art of analysis has attained a precision, of which the old chemistry was not susceptible, it appears, that, although hu- man biliary calculi yield the same products as the bile, there is contained in them more or less of a peculiar substance, which was. Darned by the celebrated Fourcroy, udipocire. (Mem. de L' Acad, des Sciences, 1789. p. 3‘23.) The presence of this substance in the concretion is of such im- portance, that, when it is abundant and in large proportion, the calculus is regular and the crys- tallization well finished; and, when it is in small quantit}', the crystallization is confused and disordered, the calculus only exhibiting an irre- gular misshapen concretion, more like a clot, than true crystals. The kind of adipocire, which con- stitutes the base of all human biliary' calculi, has some resemblance to spermaceti. Both Fourcroy arid Dr. Bostock, who analysed it, found it com- posed entirely of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. It melts, but requires a heat superior to that of boiling water : in fusion it has a smell like wax, and on cooling, forms a substance, which breaks into crystalline laminae. It is not soluble in alcohol in the cold; but, when the alcohol is boiled on it, it is dissolved in a proportion, ac- cording to Fourcroy, of one part in nineteen— according to Dr. Bostock, one in thirty. (Nicholson's Journ. 8wo. vol. 4. p. 137.) The solution, when it cools, deposits light brilliant scales. It is soluble in ether in the cold, and more abundantly, if the ether be heated. Oil of turpentine'dissolves in general biliary calculi; and, according to Green, it dissolves those, which consist almost entirely of this peculiar matter; yet, Dr. Bostock has remarked, that oil of turpentine acts on it with difficulty, and even when digested with it, at a boiling heat, dissolves it only in a small degree. Pure soda and potassa dissolve it completely, and reduce it to a sapona- ceous state. Ammonia, as Dr Bostock has remarked, exerts little action on it, except when boiling. Nitric acid dissolves it, and, according to Fourcroy, converts it into a species of liquid similar to the oil of camphor. This, as Dr. Bostock has remarked, becomes concrete, but without any crystalline structure, and is more soluble in ether and the alkalis, than the original matter. “ This substance. (Fourcroy has observed,) is contained in greater or less quantity in nearly all the human biliary calculi, more or less intermixed with other matter, but still so far predominant as to form their basis. Hence, they partake of its