282 CASTRATION. bandage; which means, in my humble opinion, are quite enough. The operation of the compresses and bandages cannot be too carefully attended to, as it is the surest means of preventing hemorrhage from any small arteries in the scrotum, while it conduces to the union of the parts. Care must be taken, how- ever, not to let the pressure hurt the sound testicle. The plan of dressing adopted by Mr Law- rence, consists in retaining the edges of the skin in apposition with two or three sutures, and then applying a narrow strip of simple dressing. A folded cloth, kept constantly damp, is also laid over the wound. (Med. Chir. Trane. Vol. G, he. cit.) With respect to sutures, some doubt may be entertained of their utility after this operation, and I have remarked, that considerable irritation and an extensive erysipelas sometimes follow their employment. Roux also noticed their bad ef- fects in a case, which occurred during his visit to this country. (See Parallele de la Chirurgie Angloise avee la Chirurgie Frangaise, p. 121.) It is somewhat extraordinary, that Larrey should condemn the plan of uniting the wound, though, indeed, we cannot be surprised at his de- livering this advice, when we recollect, that he disapproves of healing the stump, after amputa- tion, by the first intention. The passage, relative to dressing the wound after castration, seems to be a contrast to the sensible observations which generally prevail in this author’s publication : “ II ne font pas, reunir les bords de la plaie, enmme I’ont conseille quelques pmticiens, parce qu'ils doivent suppurer, el que la suppuration est ndeessaire (Mem. de ChirurgieMilitaire, Turn. 3, p. 426.) Larrey is joined by Roux and the rest of the French surgeons on this point. The main rea- sons, stated by the latter writer, for not bringing the wound together, are, that secondary hemor- rhage cannot be well guarded against, except by filling the part with charpie; that the redundance and looseness of the skin render it difficult to keep its edges in exact contact, without removing a portion of it, and using sutures, which are ob- jectionable; and that suppuration cannot com- monly be prevented, because there is a large quantity of loose cellular substance in the wound, which substance readily suppurates. (Farallele de La Chirurgie Angloise avec. la Chirurgie Fran- guise, &;c. p. 119, &c.) By applying cold water, and gentle compression to the part, I believe, however, such hemorrhage may generally be averted, and the union of the wound materially expedited. As a judicious writer observes : “In the London hospitals, complete union by the first intention is seldom, or never accomplished; yet, bv attempting it, the wound is much diminished, and the cure of it rarely delayed later, than three or four weeks; whereas the wound, when stuffed with lint, is usually not healed in less than seven, or eight weeks.” (See Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris by J. Cross, p. 144.) Sometimes, one or more vessels begin to bleed soon after the patient is in bed, although they effused no blood just after the removal of the*testicle. Keeping the dressings and scrotum continually wet with the cold saturnine lotion very often suffices for the prevention and sup- pression of such hemorrhage: if not, the wound must be opened again, and the vessels tied. J. L Petit made some useful remarks on thiil operation. The vessels of the scrotum, says hell are not the only ones, which may be the sourc« of hemorrhage. Anatomists know, that the sep*}. turn, which divides this part into two cavities, ijl furnished with an artery, that is not considerablekl but, which becomes materially enlarged, in th(U case of a sarcocele, or other tumor. It is some-M times so considerable, that it causes a bleeding! which makes a surgeon, who has had no previous! opportunity of seeing the occurrence, exceed-*! ingly uneasy. Such hemorrhage, says Petit, inayll be easily suppressed with a ligature; and, he as4| sures us, that he has seen a surgeon dress th(»| patient three times, without ever suspecting, thatjl the bleeding, for which the applications were ail third time removed, proceeded from this artery.! (Petit, Trailt des Maladies Chir. T. 2,p. 524— . 525.) •The same experienced and able surgeon also* acquaints us, that he has more than once extri-»j cated from trouble persons, who knew not howjl to stop the bleeding after the operation. He hast] seen some of them take off the dressings severally times, without discovering the wounded vessel.,! As they imagined, that the only hemorrhage, which!' could follow castration, must be from the sperma- tic artery, they contented themselves with ex-- \ amining the ligature on the cord, and increasing:! the compression, in order to stop the bleeding;!] but, finding their attempts fail, they were com-1 pelled to seek assistance. On being sent for,, M. Petit found, that the blood did not issue from j the cord, but from a small artery, under the skin, ■; at the inferior angle of the wound. He easily1! stopped the hemorrhage, and explained, not only,, that the cord had no share in the accident, but, j: that it is generally suspected without foundation. J; Indeed, says he, the least constriction will stop m the bleeding from the spermatic artery7; it is not essential to tie it;—“ 1 myself am content with ; cutting the cord, so as to leave it rather longer ■ than usual, and apply no ligature; I press it i against the os pubis, near the ring of the external t oblique; I lay over it a linen compress, half as i thick as the finger, two inches in length, suffi- ] ciently broad to cover the part, and \ret narrow j enough to be placed entirely within the wound. I Over this compress, I put dossils of lint; I fill n the scrotum with plain lint, and then cover the J whole with compresses, observing to put one, j, which is thicker, than the rest, above the pubes, L immediately7 over that, which I have laid upon the j cord, so that the bandage may make moderate f pressure on this last part, yet sufficient to pre- } vent bleeding.” (Op cit. p. 526—527.) This quotation is not made with a view of in- ' ducing any7 modern operator to imitate the pre- ceding practice, which, indeed, the advantages of the present mode of dressing the wound entirely forbid, as well as the greater security of the liga- ture; but, the passage is cited, for the express purpose of impressing on the mind of the young surgeon, that, in general, after the removal of* diseased testis, there is more risk of bleeding from the vessels of the scrotum, than those of the cord. I have never seen hemorrhage from the spermatic artery give trouble after the operation, but, have often known surgeons obliged to lake off the dressings on account of bleeding in the scrotum.