WOUNDS. 531 GUN-SHOT 1 MM2 which nature, aided b; ji. 'b-ious surgery, repairs the most horrible w- • us. The following are the reasons in favour or he Operation. By it the patient gets rid of a dreadful contused wound, which threatens the greatest peril, and which is exchanged, as it were, for a simple incised one. The pain of amputation is not of more moment than the pain which the requisite incisions, and ! the extraction of foreign bodies, would cause in case the operation were abandoned. In I cases of gun-shot wounds, the loss of the limb ; cannot be taken into the account; for, the sur- 1 geon only undertakes the operation where lie de- i| signs to save the patient’s life by that privation, I and anticipates that the part itself cannot be , preserved. Even, if he should deprive the pa- 1 dent of a limb, that, perhaps, might have been i I preserved, there is this atonement, that lie can |J urnish him with an artificial leg, which often I! iroves far more serviceable, than the lost Lmb i I rould have proved, had it been preserved. Should I he operation be fixed on, it is to be immediately ; I rerformcd above the wound. (Richter, Anfangsgr. j| ter WuiitUrr&t. B. 1.) When amputation is deemed unnecessary, the I urgeon, according to precepts formerly in vogue, II s to dilate the wound by one or more incisions. II tlany of the missile weapons employed by the | ncierits, when received into the body, required | icisions before they could be extracted; and | nis was the case, not only with regard to darts | id arrows, but also with regard to bits of stone, | eces of iron, and leaden bullets, which were irown by means of slings. Celsus mentions Tie necessity of enlarging the orifices, through , 1: hich these bodies had entered, and may there- hre be justly regarded, as the first who recom- ; | ended the practice of dilatation in the treatment | wounds made by leaden bullets. (Thuinsou’s T eports oj Ubs. in the Military Hospitals of Bel- li urn, p. 39.) ip Such a dilatation has been said to have nu- ||.erous advantages: to facilitate the extraction | foreign bodies; to occasion a topical bleeding, | d atford an outlet for the extravasated fluid in I j circumference of the wound; to convert the !| tulous form of the track of the hall into an i| 2n wound; and, lastly, to divide ligamentous i t| meuroses, which otherwise might give rise to q| ismodic and other untoward symptoms. || More modern experience proves, however, U"icr, p. 529.) that the utility of such in- id j| ons has been overrated ; that they generally d'fn rease the inflammation, which, in these cases, (| so much to be apprehended; that wounds r ch are not dilated, commonly heal more .41 b| sdily than others which are; and that there l| only a few cases, in which incisions are be- c‘a*' ^act> as Dr. Hennen has correctly ed, the knife is now rarely, if ever employed it™ he first instance by English surgeons, except , purpose of extracting balls, splinters of M | e> a,|d other extraneous bodies, or for facili- -i?l | ‘g ‘he application of ligatures to bleeding fi I '*!*• (See Principles oj Military Surgery, | 9 Eil. •/.) I he injuries, arising from the practice of in- | riniiiiate dilatation, (says Dr. Thomson) were 'f ? early pointed out by Botallus; and it is ular, how much the opinions of this author, i legard to this point in military surgery, coincide with those of Mr. Hunter. (Op. cit. p. 40.) The cases of gun-shot wounds are various. Sometimes the track of the hall lies superficially under the skin, and only lias one opening. When it lies in soft parts, and the hall has neither touched a bone, nor a considerable blood-vessel, all incisions are useless, let the wound have one or two apertures. Though dilating the \yound has been practised with a view of giving vent to matter, eschars, and foreign bodies, and even its whole track has been laid open, when superficial; yet, experience proves the inutility of such steps. As, when a ball has passed with great force, there is often a real loss of substance in tiie skin, a portion of which is driven inward before the hall, it follows, -that the opening of a gun-shot wound must he more capacious than that of a punctured one. By the separation of sloughs, the wound becomes still more dilated, so that not only matter, hut foreign bodies, which approach the skin, easily find an exit. Besides, incisions commonly close again very soon, and, in a few days, the wound falls into the same stale, as if no dilatation at all had been made. (Hunter, p. 532.) Ligamentous fibres, and fasciae, are often si- tuated about the orifice of a gun-shot wound, and some surgeons have made it a rule always to divid them completely, lest, when the wound inflames, the tension and confinement of parts should cause violent spasms and nervous symptoms, and afterwards impede the discharge of matter and foreign bodies. When they obviously have the first effects, the propriety of dividing them can- not he doubted; hut, with a mere expectation of the other evils, I consider the practice injudicious. Here, as Mr. Hunter wisely remarks, the method would be very good, if tension and inflammation were not a consequence of wounds, or, if it could he proved, that the effects of dilating a part, that is already wounded, were different from those of the first wound; hut, the employment of the knife, being only an extension of the first, mis- chief, must be contradictory to common sense, and common observation. (On Gun-shot Wounds, p. 534, 4'o.) The extraction of foreign bodies ranks as one of the most urgent motives for the dilatation of the wound, and, no doubt, it is right to remove, at first, as many of them as possible. Their lodgment irritates the wound, causes violen tner- vous and inflammatory symptoms, and cop^pus suppuration; circumstances, which the timely ex- traction of them may prevent. Yet, let it he re- membered, that the extraction of foreign bodies is frequently attended with immense irritation, and that, while they lie too firmly fixed in parts, it is often a matter of impossibility. After the sloughs have separated, and the wound has be- come widened, suppuration frequently does not prevail long before the extraneous substances become loose, spontaneously approach the skin, and easily admit of removal without any dilata- tion. Hence, it is generally prudent to extract, at first, only such foreign bodies, as are near the external opening, quite loose, and removeahle without much irritation ; or such as press oil parts of importance, and, thereby excite dan- gerous symptoms. The surgeon should avoid