WOUNDS. Us? lodged and remained encysted in the lungs, for upwards of twenty years, without the health being at all disturbed bv their presence. (See Percy, jyianuel, <S[C. p. 12b ; Boyer, Traitc dcs Mai. Chir. 7\ 7, p. 310, c^c.) 2. When one of the intercostal arteries is wounded by a narrow oblique stab, the accident cannot at first be known. In this case, the blood commonly makes its way into the cavity of the chest where it causes a more or less con- • siderable extravasation. But when the wound is 'ample, and direct, the effused blood, which has all the characters of arterial blood, leaves no doubt, concerning the injury of an intercostal artery. However, if any uncertainty prevail, it may easily be dispelled, by introducing a finger into the wound, and making pressure with it on the lower edge of the rib, which corresponds to the vessel suspected to be injured. Gerard proposed to stop hemorrhage from the intercostal artery, by means of a ligature. His plan was to erdarge the external wound, as far as the upper edge of the rib, corresponding to the wounded intercostal artery, and then to intro- duce into the chest a common curved needle, armed with a ligature, to which was attached a dossil of lint. The needle was passed behind the rib, rather higher than the superior edge of the bone. The point of the instrument was then pushed, from within outward, and brought out through the external wound, together with the ligature. Wlren the dossil had come into contact with the artery, the two ends of the ligature were tied over a thick compress, placed on the outside of the rib. In this manner, the bone was sur- rounded with the ligature, and the artery com- pressed. Goulard, of Montpelier, having found dif- ficulty in passing a common needle, whose shape little corresponded to the track, through which it had to pass, being curved towards its point, and straight towards the eye, invented one ex- presslv for this operation. He also objected to the common bent needles, as lie conceived, that they might wound the lungs with their sharp points and edges. Goulard’s needle formed three- fourths of a circle, and was fixed on a long handle, which facilitated its introduction. The eye, in which the ligature was put, was situated near the point, which was a little blunted, and the ligature lay in a groove, in the convexity of the instrument. When the needle had passed through the intercostal muscles, and its point had made its appearance over the rib, which was above the artery, the ligature was untied, and held, while the needle was withdrawn at the place, where it had entered. The ligature was then tied, as in Gerard’s method. It was afterwards thought, that compression might answer better, than the foregoing use of the ligature. Lottery, professor of anatomy in the university of Turin, constructed, for this purpose, a steel plate, which is described, and engraved in the second volume, 4to. of the Memoircs de l’Acad. de Chir. This plate was narrow at one end; broad at the other; and curved in two directions at its narrow part, where there were some holes, by means of which a compress, for the artery, was fastened on the instrument. The broad end of the plate had two long parallel slits, through which a riband was passed, with which the instrument was secured. When the wound, corresponding to the in- tercostal artery, was sufficiently extensive in the transverse direction, the narrow, bent end of the instrument was so introduced, that the lower edge of the rib above was placed in the concavity of the curvature, while the com- press acted on the edge of the bone, and, of course, on the artery. The rest of the instru- ment applied itself to the side of the thorax, in which situation it was fastened. When the wound was not ample enough, a sufficient dilatation of it was first made for the introduction of the in- strument. Quesnay employed a piece of ivory, which he covered with lint, &c. and then introduced within the chest. The instrument was then drawn from within outward, by means of a riband, and thus the necessary compression was produced. Quesnay’s plan is somewhat like that invented by Lottery. But, to have introduced the com- press entirely into the thorax, together with the ivory, which was the basis of it, and then to have drawn the contrivance from within out- ward; as was probably intended, a very large wound would have been indispensable. This was also one of the many strong objections to Lottery’s instrument, which, in fact, could only be employed, when there was a free and ample opening. Belloque, seeing the inefficacy of all the compressing means, used before his time, and their inconveniences, invented an instrument, which, he says, is calculated for making proper pressure, and, following the motion of the ribs, without hindering the escape of extravasated blood. The machine is engraved, and described, in 2 T. of Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. 4to. It is composed of two plates, which are wadded, and capable of being brought towards each other by means of a screw. This instrument, as Sabatier observes, may indeed answer; but, it is com- plicated, and awkward, and its utility is founded on the supposition of the wound being larger than wounds are, which are made with common weapons. . , Justly averse to any unnecessary multiplication of surgical instruments, modern practitioners re- ject all particular contrivances for stopping he- morrhage from the intercostal arteries. Indeed, as the accident is very rare, it is probable, that, if the best instrument possible were devised, it would hardly ever be at hand, when required. A common dossil of lint (says Sabatier), fastened to a strong ligature, and introduced be- tween the two ribs, or even quite into the chest, and then drawn, from within outward, like Q.ues- nay’s compress, would fulfil every desirable pur- pose. The external wound should then be covered with simple dres-ings, and a bandage applied round the body. The patient should be freely, and re- peatedly bled, and treated on the most rigorous antiphlogistic plan. Professor Assalini joins all the best modern surgeons in reprobating the introduction of the preceding contrivances and extraneous substances into the chest, in order to stop hemorrhage from the intercostal artery. All these methods, he remarks, are calculated to excite a dangerous