AMPUTATION. lower portion of the bone projecting through the ilesh backward, I ventured to perform the same ope- ration at Oudenbosch in Holland, a few days after the assault on Bergen-op-Zoom ; and, here hap- pened, what must often occur; instantly after the division of the soft parts, the bone being broken to pieces, the limb came off, leaving the head of the bone, the trochanters, and a small piece below them projecting. Had not the man appeared in a very bad way by the time the vessels had been secured, I should now have removed the head of the bone ; but, the shock of the operation was such, that he survived it but a few minutes, though scarcely any blood was lost. The mode of operating by the circular incision is preferred bv Graefe, who unknowingly appears to consider it as a new method. (Normcn jiir die Abl. grns- serer Giiedm. p. 118.) It has also been pro- posed by Mr. Veitcli, with the modification of leaving an inch or two of the bone projecting, which is done, without giving any additional pain, by dissecting off the soft parts below the first incisions down to the bone. This projecting piece is intended to serve as a lever, with which the head of the bone is to be got out of the acetabu- lum. (Edinb. Med. and Surg.Journ.vol.3tp. 129.) Ingenious as this suggestion may be, I do not regard it as an important practical improvement; 1st, because in almost all cases, where the ope- ration is necessary, the bone is so fractured, that its division is already made by the injury : 2dly, because the scheme is unnecessary; for in Dr. Cole’s case, where I assisted, the head of the femur was removed from the acetabulum with the utmost facility by merely making an incision over that cavity, cutting theligaments, and availing ourselves of the small piece of bone accidentally projecting. In fact, in all gunshot injuries, requiring this ope- ration, excepting a few instances of spreading gangrene from wounds, the bone is usually broken too high for Mr. Veitch’s method to be practi- cable. With the same view of facilitating the exit of the head of the bone from the acetabulum, Graefe (p. 123.) recommends dividing the trans- verse ligament completing the brim of the ante- rior and inferior side of the socket. From my hav- ing once seen one of the first anatomists in Lon- idon, with a powerful young assistant, and the whole length of the unbroken femur for a lever, baffled for nearly half an hour before he could dislocate the head of the bone, I suppose Graefe’s maxim worth recollecting. I am acquainted with only three cases, in which imputation at the hip-joint proved successful. Die first operation was that done by Mr. Brown- igg, surgeon to the forces, on the 12th of De- 'ember 1812. The upper part of the thigh bone lad been broken by a gunshot near Merida in ipain, the 29 th of December 1811. The man vas some time ago living at Spalding in Lincoln- hire in perfect health. The second successful operation was that per- ormed by Larrey at \Y itepsk. The third was done l>y Mr. Guthrie in the 'Netherlands on a French prisoner of war, who ompletely recovered. On the other hand, the examples, which have filed, are numerous, though undertaken by sur- enns of reputation and ability. Mr. Guthrie, ?r* Emery, Mr. Brownrigg, Larrey, Mr. Bro- lp> Drs. Blick and Cole, and many other mili- tary practitioners, have had opportunities of am- putating at the hip without success. No one can expect, however, this operation not to fail in a large proportion of the cases, in which it is attempted : this must always happen, let it be done in the most skilful manner possible. Yet, as there are unquestionably some descriptions of injury, where life must inevitably be lost, if this proceeding be rejected, and experience proves, that it sometimes answers, an important consider- ation is, what cases are most proper for it ? Here I am decidedly of opinion, with Professor Thom- son, that the examples, in which it is particularly called for, and where no delay should be suffered, are those, in which the head or neck of the thigh bone has been fractured by a musket ball, grape shot, or small piece of shell. Ffight or ten such cases, where amputation ought to have been done in the first instance, were brought in waggons several days after the assault on Bergen-op- Zoom into the hospital superintended by myself at Oudenbosch, and not one of these patients lived ten days after their removal. In the whole course of my professional life, I have never else- where witnessed so much suffering, or suppu- ration in such profusion. From each limb, I should guess, that at least three, or four pints of matter were discharged daily. Had amputation at the hip been performed at first, some of these patients might possibly have been saved ; at all events, I am certain, that it was their only chance. Larrey, as I have stated, thinks the operation proper, where the thigh has been shot off high up, or where the femur and soft parts near the hip have been broken, and extensively lacerated by a cannon ball, or pieces of shell. Here the ope- ration (though perhaps the only chance) must almost always fail, because, as Professor Thomson observes, these injuries occasion a shock to the constitution, of which the patient mostly sinks either immediately, or in a few hours. (Obs. mode in the Mil. Hasp. in Belgium, p. 274.) The truth of this observation I saw exemplified at Merxham, near Antwerp, at the bombardment of the French fleet in that port: a shell burst between the thighs of one of the guards; tore and lacerated two thirds of the thickness of the upper part of the right thigh; broke the ascending ramus of the ischium; lacerated the perineum and scrotum; and fractured the higher part of the femur. There was no hemorrhage of consequence; but the ex- posed lacerated surface of the soft parts was im- mense, and the unfortunate patient, who lay with his hairs standing erect, and bereft of his intel- lectual faculties, sunk in the course of a quarter of an hour into a state of insensibility, and was quite dead in twenty minutes. However, there are numerous cases, in which the patients, after dreadful injuries of the upper part of the thigh, are less depressed and overcome, and live seve- ral weeks ; facts clearly proving, that the opera- tion ought to be attempted. Many instances of this kind are related by Mr. Guthrie. (On Gun- shot Wound s, p. 134, cj-c*.) This last work, and Baron Larrey’s Memoir, de Chir. Mil. contain the most valuable information, respecting this operation. The propriety of the operation in desperate cases, is now perfectly established ; and beginning to be acknowledged by the best sui- gcons In Europe; Walther (Ahh uu* d<m Cu- bicle ilcr Pnicliachin Med. fyr.) Paroisse (( /nor.