758 LACHRYMAL ORGANS. ma. The point carried home to the sac, and touching lightly its nasal side, the lids may be left at liberty, while a half circular motion is per- formed by the instrument; the surgeon neither suffering the point to recede, nor, on the other hand, allowing it to become entangled in the membrane. The probe now rests, in a perpen- dicular direction, upon the eyebrow, towards its inner angle, and, in this direction, it is to be gently depressed, until it strikes upon the floor of the nostril, where its presence is readily as- certained by a common probe passed beneath the inferior turbinated bone. The probe, of smallest dimensions, is of sufficient firmness to preserve its figure in its passage through the healthy duct, but it is too flexible to oppose any considerable obstruction. For the stricture of the lachrymal ducts, it is of sufficient strength. Very many cases of recent origin, and in which the stricture has no great degree of firmness (Mr. Travers says) are completely cured by three or four in- troductions of the probe into the nostril, at in- tervals of one, or two days. I have seldom met with a stricture so firm as not to yield to the full sized probe.” When the resistance is not alto- gether removed, after this plan has been tried some days, Mr. Travers introduces a style, having a small flat head, a little sloped, through the punctum lachrymale into the nose, and leave it in the nasal duct for twenty-four hours. If worn longer, he says, that it causes ulceration of the orifice. A day or two is to elapse, before the style is again introduced, which must now be passed through the other lachrymal duct. On the intervening days, tepid water should be in- jected with Anel’s Syringe. (Synopsis of the Diseases of the JEj/e, p. 368, 370, 372, 374.) Thus, we see, that Mr. Travers’s practice bears a considerable resemblance to that of Anel, in- asmuch as the sac is never opened, except when likely to ulcerate, and nearly every thing is done with probes and injections, introduced through the lachrymal puncta and ducts. I wish that my views of the nature of these diseases, and of the parts concerned, would allow me to think the latter proceedings, in the case of stricture of the nasal duct, as commendable as another part of Mr. Travers’s practice, where, in cases of slighter obstruction, he contents himself with opening the sac, clearing away the stoppage of the nasal duct with a probe, and healing up the wound, without leaving any style, cannula, or seton in the pas- sage. Where the obstruction is very slight, such practice must be judicious. But, if, in other cases, it be deemed right for the prevention of a relapse, that the nasal duct should be either filled with some dilating instrument a certain time, or repeatedly probed, I am decidedly of opinion with Professor Beer, M. Nicod, &c., that the object of not making a small opening in the sac is at- tended with no advantage, at all likely to coun- terbalance the mischief, which must be done to the lachrymal puncta and ducts, not only by the repeated introduction of probes and of syringes, but by the lodgment of the former in them for the space of twenty-four hours together. If there be an opening in the sac, its convenience in permitting the easy use of a probe is generally acknowledged; and, in order to gain this ad- vantage, and avoid the evils, which are insepa- rable from taking too much liberty with the la- chrymal puncta and ducts, surely a slight punc- ture in the sac, if there be no opening already, must be the most rational, simple, and successful practice. When the perviousness of the nasal duct cannot be restored by any use of the probe, and the ob- structed part has a very elastic fed, is of incon- siderable extent, and near the termination of the duct in the nostril. Beer recommends a perfora- tion to be made with a trocar.shaped probe, the point of which is to be covered with a bit of wax, in order that it may not hurt the parts in its pas- sage downward. Some discharge of blood from the nose indicates, that the perforation is made. The sharp-pointed probe is then to be withdrawn, a blunt one used for the purpose of dilating the passage, and, at length, the catgut, as already explained. (Beer, B. 2, p. 181.) Supposing the nasal duct to be obliterated for a considerable part of its extent, by a firmer sub- stance, what practice should then be followed ? Ought the formation of an artificial passage to be attempted? On this point, modern practitioners differ, but, as the expedients adopted for this purpose cannot be judged of previously to their description, it will be .better in the first place briefly to notice them. As Mr. Pott has re- marked, the upper and hinder part of the lachry- mal sac is firmly attached to the os unguis, a small, and very thin bone, just within the orbit, which bone is so situated, that, if it be by any means broken through, the two cavities of the nose and orbit communicate with each other: consequently, the os unguis forms the partition between the hinder part of the lachrymal sac, and the upper part of the cavity of the nose 5 and it is by making a breach in this partition, that the formation of an artificial passage has been at- tempted. In Mr. Pott’s time, the cautery had long been disused for making an aperture in the os unguis, and various instruments were recom- mended for this object, such as a large strong probe, a kind of gimblet, a curved trocar, &c. each of which, says this practical writer, if dexterously and properly applied, will do the business very well; the one necessary caution is, so to apply whatever instrument is used, that it may pierce through that part of the bone which lies immediately behind the sacculus lachryrnalis, and not to push too far up into the nose, for fear of injuring the os spongiosum behind, while it breaks its way. Mr. Pott adds, that he himself has always used a curved trocar, the point of which should be turned obliquely downward, from the angle of the eye, towards the inside of the nose. The accomplishment of the breach will be known by the discharge of blood from the nostril, and of air from the wound, upon blowing the nose. Care must be taken to apply the in- strument to the part of the bone, anterior to the perpendicular ridge, which divides it. As soon as the perforation is made, a tent of lint should be introduced, of such size as to fill the aperture, and so long as to pass through it into the cavity of the nose: this should be per- mitted to remain in two, three, or four days, and afterwards a fresh one should be passed every day, until the clean granulating appearance of the sore makes it probable, that the edges of the divided membrane are in the same state. The business now is to prevent the incarnation from