871 OPHTHALMY. ' " i s Si s ■ tl'ta, s* * ^ J Rita j k. ;i i<0 !5#/J ■ «*-] teiti1 :<*! • fc ial a, 3 iff frfl i Mil sily they combine with oxygen, and the longer ey remain, the more brittle they become, and e more apt are minute particles to be left in e eye, especially in the cornea. A speck on e part of this membrane, where the splinter s lodged, is the least serious consequence of eh au event. When fragments of steel, which ve quite a black appearance, remain fixed in j cornea several hours, it is found, after their inoval, that the whole circumference of the oression, from which they have been extracted, of a reddish-brown colour, produced by the st left behind, and firmly adhering to the eor- ■ a. Every particle of rust must be carefully .noved with a couching needle, or else a per- ment speck will ensue; but, caution must be ed not to puncture the anterior chamber. The traction of particles of lead and gunpowder is : neraliy difficult, as they have mostly been pro- :ted with great force against the eyelids, so as produce not only a great deal of spasm, but stantaneous swelling of those parts. Hence, eer says, that they should commonly be taken )ld of with forceps, and cut away. Particles cantharides are easily removed with a small iver spatula, or the end of an eye-probe ; but, eir violent chemical effect must be obviated, frequently applying to the part a little fresh itter, touching it with a camel-hair pencil, dip- ■d in diluted liquor ammonias, or dropping into e eye lukewarm mucilaginous collyria. The attempt to wash out of the eye particles quicklime, mortar. &c. Beer says, only has e effect of rendering the violent chemical ope- tion of these substances more diffused, and he commends them to be taken out of the eye, r means of a fine hair-pencil, dipped in fresh itter, or oil. This is the only way of imrae- atelv counteracting their chemical effect, and, ter their extraction, the application of unctu- js substances to the part should still be con- uued. The stings of small insects, when lodged in ie sclerotic conjunctiva, are often very dif- :ult of detection; but they are more readily seen a the skin of the eyelids. Beer directs us to emove them with a pair of forceps, or a couch- ig needle, and then to have recourse to means dculated to diminish the ophthalmy, which, in lese cases, always begins on the first occur- nce of the accident. Small shots, lodged in ie loose cellular texture of the conjunctiva, mst be cut out. In general, says Beer, it is ecessary to divide the conjunctiva, as they are lostly situated some distance from the place of >e*r entrance, and of coarse are quite covered y that membrane. As soon as a foreign body has been ex- racted from the eye, all precursors of ophthalmy i mi nigh, as for instance, the redness, intolerance f light, and the increased secretion and effusion f tears. Even the inflammation itself, when heady developed, subsides ; but, this affection * slight, if the eye has not itself been injured by ic extraneous body. On the other hand, when iic eye has suffered more or less irritation from ic nature of the substance itself, and the treat- nent requisite for its complete extraction, the m animation may become more severe, unless ie surgeon pay immediate attention to the njury left on the eye. (Beer.) According to the principles laid down in the foregoing columns, the first indication in the treatment of wounds of the eye in general is to remove every kind of extraneous substance, which might impede the cure. Hence, the ne- cessity of observing whether the instrument with which the wound has been inflicted, or any part of it, is lodged in the eye. When this is the case, the foreign body should be quickly extracted, or else no recovery of the organ can take place. But, says Beer, this is more easily said than done; for, in many instances, it is very difficult to find and remove the fragments of instruments, on account of the great delicacy of the organ, the irritability and alarm of the patient, and the bleeding from the part. However, the attempt must be made with the greatest gentleness pos- sible; and Beer particularly advises a fine elastic whalebone probe to be used, instead of a silver one, for the purpose of detecting the fragment. He also sanctions making an incision, for facilitating the finding of the extraneous substance, provided it is certainly lodged, and cannot otherwise be traced. This author attaches great importance to the fulfilment of this first indication in all wounds of the eye, and relates a case, to which lie was called sixteen years ago, where a piece of tobacco pipe had been driven so forcibly and deeply at the external canthus between the eye- ball and orbit of a young student, aged 19, and of delicate make, that the eye was immediately pushed out of its socket, and, on Beer’s ar- rival, it lay with the cornea quite against the nose. Its very position led Beer to suspect, that some extraneous body was lodged in the orbit, and, notwithstanding the assurances of all the bystanders to the contrary, and the patient’s being ailected with violent spasms, the part was examined with a fine flexible whalebone probe, by which means, a piece of the pipe, nearly an inch in length, was felt, and immediately ex- tracted with a pair of forceps. Scarcely had this substance been removed, when the eyeball was spontaneously drawn back into the orbit, though with the cornea still turned towards the nose, and the twitchings of the muscles also instantly ceased; but the eye was blind, and had but a very faint perception of light. By very careful treatment, the eyesight was restored in five weeks; but, the eye could not turn towards the temple, owing to the considerable injury, which the external straight muscle had sustained. With the aid of electricity, the power of rotating the eye about half its natural extent outwards was in the end regained, and the remaining infirmity resisted every method, deemed worthy of trial. (Beer, B. 1, p. 146. See also the article Ex- ophthalmia. ) Fragments of broken instruments are not the only kind of extraneous substances, which may lodge in the wounded eye; for, as Beer ob- serves, when the injury is extensive, contused, and lacerated, there may be splinters of bone, or pieces of membrane, cellular substance, muscle, ike. so detached as to be quite incapable of re- union, on which account, this author sets them down as foreign bodies requiring to be taken away. However, I conceive, that, with respect to the soft parts, the advice here delivered should be received with much limitation. Wounds of the eye, like those of most other