GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 543 Larrey, it appears to me, tliat this author’s directions would have been more complete and judicious, had he advised in these cases bleeding, both topical and general. From the injury of arterial ramifications, or varicose vessels, blood is sometimes extravasated within the wounded bladder, and causes deep- seated irritation. According to Baron Larrey, the case is indicated by the symptoms of reten- tion of urine, and those of inflammation, with a small pulse, pallor of the countenance, and dry- ness of the wounds. (T. 4, p. 295.) A more decided criterion, I should think, would be the partial escape of urine mixed with blood, a sym- ptom, which could deceive only where the ure- thra itself had been injured. Larrey states, that blood, extravasated in the bladder, rarely coagu- lates, because blended with urine, and hence, he advises its discharge to be facilitated by means of a catheter, and tepid, emollient, anodyne in- jections. [T. 4; p. 295.) Sometimes, balls carry before them into the bladder fragments of bone, small coins, pieces of buttons, &c. or bits of bullets break off) and lodge in that viscus. When these extraneous bodies are not above a certain size, they are fre- quently voided through the urethra, (see Cases in Dr. Hennen's Work;p. 419, 422, 424, fya Ed. 2,) and their evacuation may be materially facilitated by the Introduction of an elastic gum catheter, the size of which is to be increased gradually, until the largest can be passed, when the foreign substances will readily enter the tube, or pass out through the dilated urethra. In this way, Baron Larrey has' saved gravel patients from a vast deal of suffering, [Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 4, p. 302.) When the ball is too large to be taken out in this manner, the lateral operation is to be performed, and it ought to be done before the bladder falls into an ulcer- ated, or gangrenous state from the pressure and ir- ri tation of the foreign body. However, as wounds of this organ frequently give rise to dangerous inflammation, Larrey recommends this operation, (and not that above the pubes, as is stated by mis- take in Dr. Hennen’s valuable book, p. 428, Ed. 2,) to be done either before its attack, or not till after its subsidence. ( Vol. cit. p. 309.) In fact, almost all the operations of this kind on record have been done some considerable time after the receipt of the wound, and to this prac- tice my own judgment would lead me to give a general preference. In one case, however, Larrey operated on the fourth day after the receipt of the wound, and with success. After the battle of Waterloo, I was not a little surprized to find iri the St. Elizabeth hospital at Brussels, a considerable number of cases, in which either the intestines, the stomach, the omentum, or the bladder, protruded. I think we had in the division under Mr. Collier and myself, not less than three protrusions of the bladder. An order, whieh I received to join the army in the field on the 27th of June, deprived me of the opportunity of witnessing the progress and termination of these interesting cases. How- ever, man)' had ended fatally before my de- parture from Brussels. CON-SHOT WOUND* OF THE THOKAX. Wounds of the lungs, abstracted from other mischief, are now well known not to be always fatal. Balls have been found in the substance of the lungs after having lodged there twenty years, during all which time the patients were healthy, and free from symptoms indicative of the case. (Percy, Manuel, dife. p. 25.) Mr. Hunter had some reason to believe, that wounds of the lungs, made with balls, were generally less dangerous than such as were made with sharp-pointed in- struments ; for, he had seen several patients re- cover alter they had been shot through the lungs, while other persons died of very small wounds of those organs, done with swords and bayonets. Perhaps, one cause of this fact may be owing to the circumstance of gun-^hot wounds generally bleeding less than other wounds, so that there is not so much danger of blood being effused in the cavity of the chest, or the cells of the lungs. The indisposition of the orifice of a gun-shot wound to heal up too soon, is also another cir- cumstance that must lessen the hazard, as what- ever matter happens to be extravasated has thereby an opportunity of escaping. But,' from what has been stated, it be inferred, that gun-sliot wounds of are not accompanied with a serious danger. Frequently the patient expires in- stantly, being suffocated in consequence of pro- fuse hemorrhage from those organs ; for, though it be true, that gun-shot wounds generally do not bleed much, when the injured vessels are under a certain size, yet, the contrary is the case, when the wounded vessels ^are like those situated towards the root of the lungs. Gun-shot Wounds of the chest also often prove fatal by the inflammation that is excited within this cavity. Appearances sometimes create a belief, that a ball has passed completely through the chest and lungs, when the fact is otherwise. u Thus (as Dr. Hennen observes) I have traced a ball by dissection, passing into the cavity of the thorat, making the circuit of the lungs, penetrating nearly opposite the point of entrance, and giving the appearance of the man having been shot fairly across, while bloody sputa seemed to prove the fact, and, in reality, rendered the same measures to a certain extent, as necessary as if the case had been what was suspected. The bloody sputa, however, were only secondary, and neither so active and alarming as those which pour out r must not the lungs j degree of H * H u rJ . I i 4 Hi r 1 ■ it iti < i at once from the lungs when wounded.” (Milt- tort/ Surgery, p. 368, Ed. 2.) A second cause of deception is the frequent long course of a ball, round the chest under the skin and muscles, pre- viously to its exit, whereby an appearance is presented, as if the patient had been shot through the thorax. And, another source of deception, as to the actual penetration of balls, is “ where they strike against a handkerchief, linen, cloth, See. and are drawn out unperceived in tbeiv folds, a peculiarity which has not escaped M- Larrey, who gives an interesting notice on it ,B the Bulletins de la Faculty de Med. Paris, 1815, No. 2. in I have also given an instance «* the preceding pages.” [Hennen loco cit.) 18 these cases, the absence of bloody expectoration directly after the injury, the undisturbed state 0 respiration, and the greater freedom from °P" pression, anxiety, syncope, and other bad sy1* ptoms, thau in cases where the lungs arc bud,