130 ANEURISM. sage of the blood through the tube. This object might probably be effected by compression ; but, the inconveniences attending such a degree of pressure, as would-fetain the opposite sides of an artery in contact at tiro bottom of a recent wound, are too great to permit its employment. It oc- curred to Mr. Travers, that if a ligature were applied to an artery, and suffered to remain only a few hours, the adhesion of the wounded sur- faces would be sufficiently accomplished to insure the obliteration of the canal; and by the removal of the ligature at this period, the inconveniences attending its stay would be obviated. The dan- ger produced by the residence of a ligature upon an artery, arises from the irritation, which, as a foreign body, it produces in its coats. Ulceration has never been observed to commence in less than twenty-four hours after the application of a liga- gature; whilst it is an ascertained fact, that lymph is in a favourable state for organization in less than six hours, .in a wound the sides of which are preserved in contact. (Jones, chap. 4, exp. 1.) If it be sufficient, therefore, to ensure their adhe- sion, that the wounded coats of an artery be kept in contact by a ligature only three or four hours, ulceration and sloughing may in a great degree be obviated by promoting the immediate adhe- sion of the wound. Justified by this reasoning, Mr. Travers performed several experiments, by which he ascertained, that if a ligature were kept six, two, or even one hour upon the carotid artery of a horse, and then removed, the adhesion was sufficiently advanced to effect the permanent obliteration of the canal. It appeared probable, that the same result would be obtained upon the healthy artery of a human subject. (See Travers’s Ohs. in Med. Chin Trans. Vol. 4, and Hodpson’s Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 228, et seq.) Mr. A. Cooper appears to have performed one operation for a popliteal aneurism, with a view of ascertaining the efficacy of such a method on the human subject. He completely stopped the flow of blood for thirty-two hours, and then removed the ligature; but the pulsations of the tumor commenced again. He next applied the ligature forty hours longer, at the end of which time, no pulsation recurred on the ligature being taken away. On the twelfth day, however, a con- siderable bleeding took place, and it was neces- sary to take up the vessel anew. Mr. A. C. Hutchinson has tried this method, as modified by Mr. Travers, in an operation, which he performed for a popliteal aneurism in a sailor, in Nov. 1813. A double ligature was passed under the femoral artery. The ligatures were tied with loops, or slip-knots, about a quarter of an inch of the vessel being left undivided between them. All that now remained of the pulsation in the tumor, was a slight undulatory motion. Nearly six hours having elapsed from the appli- cation of the ligatures, the wound was carefully opened, and the ligatures untied and removed, without the slightest disturbance of the vessel. In less than half a minute afterwards, the artery became distended with blood, and the pulsations in the tumor were as strong as they had been before the operation. Mr. Hutchinson then applied two fresh ligatures; hemorrhage after- wards came on ; amputation was performed, and the patient died. (See Practical Olsservalinns in Surgery, p. 102, $r.) Now, as Mr. Hut- chinson chose to apply other ligatures, on find- ing that the pulsation returned, the above case only proves, that the artery is not obliterated in about six hours, and we are left in the dark respecting the grand question, namely, whether the vessel would have become obliterated by the effusion of coagulating lymph and the adhesive inflammation, notwithstanding the return of cir- culation through it. As for the hemorrhage which occurred, I think it might have been expected, considering the disturbance and irri- tation, which the artery must have sustained in the proceedings absolutely necessary for the ap- plication of not less than four ligatures, and the removal of two of them. According to my ideas, only one ligature ought to have been used, and none of the artery detached. We also have no description of the sort of ligatures, which were employed; an essential piece of information in forming a judgment of the merits of the pre- ceding method. The application, removal, and reapplication of ligatures are not consistent with the wise principles inculcated by the late Dr. Jones, and have, in more instances than that recorded by Mr. Hutchinson, brought on ulcera- tion of the artery and hemorrhage. The limits of this work prevent me from entering into the particulars of the very inter- esting experiments, undertaken by Mr. Travers, upon the arteries of animals, for the purpose of ascertaining the earliest period when a ligature might be removed from an artery, without any risk of the vessel not being duly obliterated. A full detail of them may be seen in another work, (See Med. Chin Trans. Vol. 4 and 6‘;) and others in relation to the same question, may likewise be perused in Scarpa’s appendix to his great work on aneurism. (Memmia sulla Legutura delle principal) Arterie degli Arti, &;c. Fol. Pavia, 1817 ) The cases, above related, and other considera- tions, long ago satisfied me, that, flattering as ■the suggestion of Dr. Jones was, the plan of removing the ligature, previously’ to its natural separation, would never answer in the operation for the cure of aneurism, unless either an obli- teration of the arterial tube would follow with reasonable certainty the taking away of the liga- ture directly after it had been applied and it had divided the inner coats of the vessel; or, at all events, unless the ligature could be withdrawn at a determinate period, when either the same obli- teration would surely ensue, or be already com- plete; and, all this, with such regularity and in- fallibility in every case, that the surgeon would have no chance of being, called upon to apply another ligature, do a second operation, or dis- turb the artery in any kind of way whatsoever. Mr. Travers, in the prosecution of this in- quiry, in which he has evinced a full determina- tion to be guided by no motive, but the love of truth, at length tried the temporary application of the ligature in a case of brachial aneurism, which he operated upon Feb. 14, 1817. The artery was tied an inch and a half above the bend of the elbow with a noose ligature. The pulsation in the radial artery immediately ceased. On the 16th, at four o’clock in the afternoon, the ligature was removed with little difficulty', after having remained on the artery' fifty hours. No pulsation ensued in the vessel below the