11/ u-iumuuuuii ui iiil I’ilSi?. IjOUIS (11(1 not believe, that any of the persons, who saw the patient, could entertain a just idea of the origin of this symptom. The supposition, that the obsti action, winch the foreign body caused, for two days, to the free passage of the air, might have occasioned a forcible distention of the tra- chea, and a rupture of the membrane, which connects together the cartilaginous rings of this tube, was dispelled by the examination after death. The windy tumor had not originated in the circumference of the trachea: here its limits were only seen. The very substance of the lungs, and the mediastinum, were emphy- sematous. The air, confined by the foreign body, had ruptured the air-cells, during the violent fits of coughing, and thus insinuated itself into the interlobular cellular substance of the lungs. Thence it had passed into the cel- lular substance of the lungs; and afterwards into that connecting the pleura pulmonalis with the outer surface of these organs ; and by the communication of the cells with each other, it had produced a prodigious swelling of the cel- lular substance, between the two layers of the mediastinum. The emphysema, in its pro- gress, at length made its appearance above the clavicles. The swelling of the lungs, and the circumjacent parts, in consequence of the in- sinuation of air into the cellular substance, is a manifest cause of suffocation. The tumefaction appears to be so natural an effect of the presence of a foreign body in the trachea, that one can hardly believe it is not an essential symptom, though, before Louis, no author has made men- tion of it. Foreign bodies in the trachea, however, do not always cause death so suddenly, which may be owing to their smallness, their smoothness, or the situation in which they are fixed. An example is related in les Ep/iemerides des Cuvieux de In Nature, Decad. 2. Ann. 10. As a monk was swallowing a cherry, precipitately, the stone of the fruit passed into the trachea. A violent cough, and excessive efforts, as it were, to vomit, were the first symptoms pf the accident, and of these the patient thought he should have died. A sleep of some hours followed this terrible agitation, and the patient afterwards did not feel the least i neonvenience during a whole year. At the end of this time, he was attacked by a cough, at- tended with fever. These symptoms became worse and worse, ever)' day. At length the pa- tient evacuated a stone as large as a nutmeg. It was externally composed of tartareous matter, to which the cherry-stone had served as a nucleus. A copious purulent expectoration followed the discharge of the foreign body, and the patient died consumptive some time afterwards. No mention is made of the body being opened; but, from the symptoms, there is every reason to be- lieve, that an abscess must have arisen in the substance of the lungs, from the presence of the foreign body. That foreign bodies in the tra- chea, even when they do not induce pressing symptoms of suffocation, may ultimately kill the patient by inducing disease of the lungs, is proved by several cases on record, and, par- ticularly by one, which occurred to Desault; a cherry-stone was lodged in one of the ventricles of the larynx; the patient would not consent to an operation, and died after two years d’tmi phthisic tart/npi't'. (See (Euvres Chir, de Desault, P. 2, p. 25ti.) Some valuable observations, confirming the necessity of an early recourse to bronchototny, in cases, where foreign bodies are lodged in the trachea, have been published by Pelletan, now one oi the surgeons of the Hotel Dieu, and a practitioner of vast experience. In one case, in which a bean had fallen into a child’s trachea, arid in which the most urgent symptoms of suf- focation had prevailed for four days, and con- vulsions during the last thirty-six hours of this space of time, M. Pelletan performed the ope- ration, which a timid practitioner, under whose management the young patient was first placed, had neglected to do at an earlier period. Upon the incision being made into the trachea, the bean was immediately thrown out to the distance of two feet, and the child for a time was relieved. The little boy was so extremely weak, that it was at one time supposed he was dead. However, with some assistance, he gradually revived, even regained his senses, called his parents, and asked for such things as he wanted. 1 his hopeful state lasted eight or ten hours, after which, convulsions came on again, and the child died fourteen hours after the operation. Notwithstanding the turgid appearance of all the blood-vessels of the brain, as detected after death, the little boy had yet received a degree j of relief at the instant of the foreign body being extracted. Pelletan deems it unnecessary to in- sist on the great probability of success, that would have attended the operation, had it been per- formed at an earlier period. Of such success, Pelletan gives us the follow- ing example. In the month of May, 1798, a child, about 1 three years old, was brought to the Hotel Dieu, ] who, in playing with some French beans, and putting them into its mouth, let one of them slip into the trachea. For three days, the child was afflicted with a continual cough, and sometimes the symptoms of suffocation were ■ most pressing. This time had been spent in ad- ministering emetics, introducing instruments into the oesophagus with the design of forcing the 4 foreign body into the stomach, and in inspiring 4 the relations, with a pernicious confidence, arising 1 from the very long intervals of repose, which the ‘ child experienced, during which, however, a rat- tling in the throat continued, a characteristic mark of the accident. Pelletan immediately de- cided to perform the operation. The child was very fat, and this circumstance, together with the small diameter of the trachea at this age, rendered the exposure of the anterior portion of this tube difficult. Pelletan was at this moment struck with the reflection, that bronchotomy should never be attempted except by men of science, coolness, and experience in operations. The rings of the trachea, however, were at length - cut, and there was no sensible interval, between . the incision and the expulsion of the foreign body. The bean had swelled considerably with the moisture. The child seemed restored jj to life; it spoke freely; it was only troubled with coughing, the effect of a small quantity of blood insinuating itself into the trachea, which lluid wtis instantly rejected again. This event