4G8 FRACTURES. gical writers to obstruct and sometimes hinder cultly. Here, at the end of the second month, altogether the formation of callus. the union will frequently have made but little babricius Hildanus has cited two eases, which progress; nor can the cure be accomplished with- tend to prove, that the union of fractures is re- out deformity and shortening of the limb, tarded by pregnancy. (Cent. 5. Ohs. 87, Cent. 1 he fragments must be retained in a tom- 6. Ohs. 68.) Alanson has also related a case, pletely motionless state. This condition is so es- in which the union, which had been delayed dur- sential to the formation of callus, that if the ends ing pregnancy, took place after delivery ; (Met/, of a fracture were daily moved, they could not Ohs. and Inq. Vol. 4. No. 37.); and W erner has unite. The two extremities of the bone would published an account of a fracture of the radius in then heal separately, just like the sides of a a pregnant woman, where the cure was apparently wound which have not been put in contact. The retarded for a long time by this circumstance, ends of a fracture, however, which cicatrize and though the union took place previously to separately, do not (according to Boyer) always delivery, the callus was not very firm till after that become smooth, nor is there ordinarily any caj>- event. (Richter, Bibl. B. 11, P. 591.) From the \ sular ligament formed. (Traitc des Mai. Chir, facts, however, mentioned in a preceding page T. 3, p.86.) of this article, there can now be no doubt, that pregnancy frequently [does not prevent the form- ation of callus in the ordinary time, though the observation of Mr. Wardrop is true, that many instances have been observed of bones being fractured during pregnancy, and never shewing any disposition to unite till after de- livery. (Mtd. Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 359.) .Besides the remarks, made here and in a fore- going page on the causes preventing the union of fractures, a few additional observations on the same subject will be introduced in the sequel of this article, when we speak of the modes of at- tempting the cure of old disunited fractures. 2. Of some local Circumstances necessary for the Consolidation of Fractures. As Boyer has well explained, three local cir- cumstances are necessary to obtain a firm callus, without deformity. 1. The two fragments must be possessed of sufficient vascularity. 2. The surfaces of the fracture must correspond. 3. They must be kept in a completely motionless state. The two fragments must he sufficiently vascular. If one of them should be too scantily supplied with blood, the fracture would be incapable of union. This (says Boyer) is what happens in certain fractures of the neck of the femur, where the head of this bone is entirely detached, and the ligamentous substance, which is reflected over its neck and serves as its periosteum, is totally lacerated, as well as the vessels, which ramify upon it. Hence, the upper fragment lodged in the cotyloid cavity no longer receives from the vessels, sent to it through the ligamen- tum teres, a sufficiency of blood for the process of the formation of callus. This is especially likely to be the case, when the patient is far ad- vanced in years, and the vessels considerably lessened in diameter. An adequate circulation must therefore exist in both portions of bone; for without it the attempt at union will fail. The surfaces of the fracture must correspond exactly. This circumstance is not absolutely necessary for the consolidation of the fracture; but without it, the formation of the callus is al- ways slow and difficult. For instance, in a trans- verse fracture of the thigh-bone, the fragments after being displaced according to the thickness of the bone, may undergo a second displacement according to its length, by passing beyond each other. The surfaces of the fracture are then not at all in contact, and the portions of bone only touch each other by their sides, which being covered by the periosteum can unite but diffi- 3.. Different Opinions on the Formation of Callus. As Boyer remarks, perhaps no subject has ex- cited more discussion, than the formation of cal- lus. The ancients ascribed it to the extravasation of a gelatinous fluid, which was called the osseous juice, and which becoming hard, served to unite the ends of the broken bone, just as glue serves to unite two pieces of wood. Hence, in order to favor the production of callus, they were in the habit of recommending their patients to eat abundantly of every sort of viscid farinaceous aliment, the glutinous parts of animals, and especially osteocolla, of which Fabricius Hildanus relates miracles. But, if these accounts were true, callus must be inorganic; or else one would be compelled to admit, that the inspissation of an inorganic fluid was capable of producing an organized substance: which is an absurdity. Besides, ob- servation demonstrates, that callus is an orga- nized matter, like the Substance of the bone itself, which it resembles, and that, when sub- jected to anatomical and chemical experiments, it exhibits all the appearances of the proper sub- stance of bones. According to Duhamel, callus is formed by the periosteum, which he regards as the organ of ossification. "When a bone is fractured, (says this naturalist) the periosteum of the two frag- ments first grows together, and then swells, and forms a circular rising round the fracture. The thickened membrane is converted into a gelati- nous substance, which soon becomes a cartilagi- nous matter. In this vessels develope them- selves, and different points of ossification com- mence, which multiply and unite. Thus, when every part of the periosteum near the fracture is hardened and ossified, this membrane is changed, as it were, into a sort of clasp, which extends over the two fragments, and holds them to- gether. It was objected to Duhamel’s theory, that, if a bone be slit longitudinally in the situation of a former fracture, the fragments are observed to have their substances blended completely to- gether, and not simply to lie in contact in the manner of two pieces of wood placed end to end, and kept in contact by means of a clasp. Du- hamel, with a view of obviating this difficulty, supposed that the periosteum elongated itself from the circumference towards the centre of the bone, and that such continuation of this mem- brane underwent the same changes, as that por-