420 EMP ENC siderable quantity of pus. Although the patient had been ill for two months, he had suffered no difficulty of breathing, and had had only a slight cough. Le Dran met with a case of nearly the same kind. A patient, who had been, for three days, affected with a considerable oppres- sion, and an acute pain on the left side of the chest, got somewhat better. He felt no mate- rial difficulty of breathing, on whatever side he lay. The only thing, which he complained of, was a sense of a fluctuation in his thorax, and a little obstruction of his respiration, when he was in a sitting posture. These symptoms did not seem sufficiently decided to justify the operation, and it was delayed. The febrile symptoms con- tinued with cold sweats, and the patient died on the eighth day. Five pints of pus were found collected in the chest. (See Le Bran's Observa- tions in Surgery, p. 109, 110, Edit. 2.) The symptoms, more particularly depending upon empyema itself, that is to say, upon the disease and suppuration within the chest, are nearly the same as those, which accompany all large deep-seated abscesses. The fever, attend- ing the thoracic inflammation, which ends in suppuration, gradually diminishes, but does not entirely cease. On the contrary, it soon changes into hectic, attended with flushings of the cheeks, heat of the palm of the hands, and exacerbations every evening, and after meals. In the night, the upper parts of the body are covered with per- spiration ; the patient is tormented with insatiable thirst; his appetite quite fails; his debility be- comes extreme ; he is subject to frequent faint- ing fits ; diarrhoea ensues ; and the finger nails become curved, shining, and of the yellow tinge, observable all over the body. At length, the utmost emaciation, and the facies Hippocratica, come on, frequently attended with dilated pupils, and enfeebled vision, and indicating the approach of death. As the operation of empyema, and some other particulars, relating to this subject, are treated of in another part of this Dictionary, (See Paracen- tesis of the Thorax) it will only be necessary for me here to subjoin a list of works, which may be advantageously consulted for information on em- pyema. A. Voter, et J. E. Mutiliet, Empyema, e vomica pulmonis, rupta in cavitatem pectoris dex- tram effiusa, indique pulmo hujus laleris cornpres- stis penitusrjue ab officio remotus, Wittemb. 1731, (Haller, Disp. ad Morb. 2, 4031.) Gerardus le Mairc, Diss. de Empyemate, 4to. Lugd. 1735. Sharp's Critical Enquiry into the Present Slate of Surgery, sect. on Empyema. Le Bran’s Obser- vations in Surgery. J. L. Petit, Traite des Mala- dies Chirtirgicales, Tom. 1, Chap. 3, Des Plaies de la Poitrine. Warner’s Cases in Surgery, Chap. 6, Edit. 4. Memo ire svr l'Operation du Trepan au Sternum pur M. de la Marliniere in M<fm. de I'Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, Tom. 12, p. 342, Edit. \2mo. L. G. Van Malcote, De Empyemate, Teneramund. 1783. Sabatier, Mtde- ciue Operatoire, Tom. 2, p. 247, Sc., Edit. 1. A. 0( Flaherty, Be Empytmale, Montp. 1774. Andouard de t’Empyeme, Cure Radicale Obtenuc pur l’Operation, dj-c. 8vo. Paris, 1808. Culliscn, Systema Chirurgiic Hodienuz, Vol. 2, p. 363, Edit. 1798. Flajani, Collezime d'osservazioni, 8fc., di Chirurgia, T. 3, p. 185, <$fc. 8»o. Roma, 1802. Richer and, Nosogr. Chir, T. 4, sect, des Maladies de l'Apparcil respirutoirc. LcvCdU, Nouvelle Durtrine Cltir. T. 2, p. 575, Sjc- Bey’s Practical Observations in Surgery, Ed. 3. Las- sus Putholngie Chirurgicale, T. 1, p. 122, <Jr. Larrey, Me moires de Chirurgie Militnire, 7'. 3, p. 442, et T. 4, p. 356, tSc. Pelletan, Clinique Chir. T. 3, p. 236, Use. J. Hennev, Principles of Military Surgery, p. 334, <5(c. Ed. 2, 8to. Edinb. 1820. Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. 351, &~c. 8vo. Paris, 1821. ENCANTHIS. (from a, and zrevSsr, the angle of the eye.) The encanthis, at its commencement, is nothing more, says Scarpa, than a small, soft, red, and sometimes rather livid, excrescence, which grows from thecarunculalachrymalis, and, at the same time, from the neighbouring semi- lunar fold of the conjunctiva. The inveterate encanthis is ordinarily of considerable magni- tude ; its roots extend beyond the caruncula lachrymalis, and semilunar fold, to the mem- branous lining of one or both eyelids. The patient experiences very serious inccnvenience from its origin, and interposition between the commissure of the eyelids, which it necessarily keeps asunder, on the side towards the nose. The encanthis keeps up a chronic ophthalmy, impedes the action of the eyelids, and in par- cular, prevents the complete closure of the eye. Besides, partly by compressing, and partly by displacing the orifices of the puncta lachrymalia, it obstructs the free passage of the tears into the nose. According to Scarpa, this excrescence, on its first appearance, is commonly granulated, like a mulberry, or is of a ragged and fringed struc- ture. Afterwards, when it has acquired a cer- tain size, one part of it represents a granulated tumor, while the rest appears like a smooth, whitish, or ash-coloured substance, streaked with varicose vessels, sometimes advancing as far over the conjunctiva, covering the side of the eye next to the nose, as where the cornea and scle- rotica unite. In this advanced state, the encan- this constantly interests the caruncula lachry- malis, the valvula semilunaris, and the membra- nous lining of one, or both eyelids. In addition to the roots, which in such circumstances con- nect the excrescence with the caruncula lacry- malis, the semilunar fold, and the conjunctiva of the globe of the eye, the encanthis emits an ap- pendage, or prominent, firm elongation, along the inside of the upper, or lower eyelid, in the direction of its edge. The middle, or body, of the encanthis divides near the cornea, as it were, like a swallow’s tail, to form two appendages, or elongations, one of which extends along the inner surface of the upper eyelid by the margin of which it is covered, while the other shoots, in a direction from the internal towards the external angle, along the inside of the lower eyelid, which also conceals it beneath its edge. The body of the encanthis, or that middle portion of the whole excrescence, which reaches, from the caruncula lachrymalis, and semilunar fold, inclusively, over the conjunctiva almost to the junction of the sclerotica with the cornea, sometimes forms a prominence, as large as a smnll nut, or chestnut. At other times, it is of considerable size, but depressed, and broken down, as it were, at its centre. Still, however,