734 JOINTS. as a primary affection, in the early stage of which the bones, synovial membrane, and liga- ments are in a natural state. If neglected, it ultimately occasions the entire destruction of the articulation. It may be the consequence of in- inflammation of the cartilage itself, or of the bony surface, with which it is connected; but, as Mr. Brodie further observes, in many instances, there are no evident marks of the disorder being preceded by any inflammatory action in one part, or the other, and the inflammation, which after- wards takes place, appears rather to be the attend- ant upon/than the cause of, the ulcerative process. One striking peculiarity of ulceration of the ar- ticular cartilages is, that the process may take place, without the formation of pus ; for the dis- ease often proceeds so far as to cause caries of the bones, and yet no purulent matter is found within the joint. (See Brodic's Pathol, and Surgical Ol>s. fyc. p. 102.) The investigations of the same author dispose him to believe, that a conversion of these cartilages into a soft fibrous structure, is a frequent though not constant forerunner of ulceration. (P.105.) When the ulceration of the cartilage occurs in the superfi- cial joints, it constitutes one of the diseases, which have been known by the name of white-swelling. From cases, which Mr. Brodie has met with, he is led to conclude, that when it takes place in the hip, it is this disease, which has been variously designated by writers, the “ morbus coxartus,” the “ Disease of the Hip,” the “ Scrophulous Hip,” the Scrophulous Caries of the Hip Joint.” At least, says Mr. Brodie, it is to this disease, that these names have been principally applied, though probably other morbid affections have been occasionally confounded'with it. [Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 236.) The ulceration of the ar- ticular cartilages takes place, as a primary disease, chiefly in children, or adults under the middle age. “ Of sixty-eight persons affected with this disease, fifty-six (according to Mr. Brodie) were under thirty years of age: the youngest was an infant of about twelve months; the oldest was a woman of sixty. As the knee is more frequently affected by inflammation of the synovial mem- brane, so is the hip more liable, than other joints, to the ulceration of the cartilaginous surfaces. In general the disease is confined to a single joint; but, it is not very unusual to find two or three joints affected in the same individual, either at the same time, or in succession. Some- times, the patient traces the beginning of his symptoms to a local injury, or to his having been exposed to cold ; but, for the most part, no cause can be assigned for the complaint.” (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 319.) The symptoms of the disease of the hip-joint will be described in the ensuing section, and we shall here confine our remarks to the symptoms characterizing ulceration of the cartilages of the knee, as pointed out by Mr. Brodie. They differ from those of inflammation of the synovial membrane, by the pain being slight in the be- ginning, and gradually becoming very intense, which is the reverse of what happens in the lat- ter affection. The pain in the commencement is also unattended with any evident swelling, wlvjeh never comes on in^less than four or five weeks, and often not till after several months. It is not to be inferred, however, that every slight pain of the joint, unaccompanied with swelling, must of course arise from ulceration of the car- tilages. But, says Mr. Brodie, when the pain continues to increase, and at last is very severe; when it is aggravated by the motion of the bones on each other, and when, after a time, a slight tumefaction of the joint takes place, we may conclude that the disease consists in such ulcera- tion. The swelling arises from a slight inflam- mation of the cellular membrane on the outside of the joint; it has the form of the articulating ends of the bones ; and for the most part it ap- pears greater than it really is, in consequence of the muscles being wasted. No fluctuation is perceptible, as where the synovial membrane is inflamed; nor is there the peculiar elasticity, which exists, where the synovial membrane has undergone a morbid alteration of its structure. Mr. Brodie has explained, however, thar in some cases, the swelling has a different shape, and communicates the feel of a fluctuation. This happens, when inflammation of the synovial mem- brane, attended with a collection of the syno- via of the joint, or abscesses in the surrounding soft parts, or in the articulation itself, occur as secondary diseases. When there has been considerable destruction of the soft parts from abscesses and ulceration, the head of the tibia may become dislocated and drawn -towards the ham. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 326, 4. I shall pass over ulceration of the synovial membrane, which Mr. Brodie considers in a separate section, and now proceed to the scro- phulous white-swelling. In the scrophulous dis- ease of the joints, the bones are primarily affected, in consequence of which, ulceration takes place in the cartilages covering their articular extre- mities. The cartilages being ulcerated, the subsequent progress of the disease (says Mr. Brodie) is the same as where this ulceration takes place in the first instance. (Mcdico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 266.) By Mr. Lloyd, scrophulous white-swellings are divided into three stages; the first being that in which the affection is confined to the bone; the second, that in which the external parts be- come thickened and swelled; and the third being what he names the suppurative stage, attended with ulceration of the cartilages, inflammation of the synovial membrane, and abscesses. (On Scrophula, p. 121.) It was formerly a common notion, that, in white swellings, the heads of the bones were always enlarged. Mr. Russell, I believe, is the first writer who expressed an op- posite sentiment, and he distinctly declares, that he had never heard, nor known of an instance. in which the tibia was enlarged from an attack of white swelling. {P. 37.) The inaccuracy of the opinion was afterwards pointed out by Mr. Lawrence, to the lato Mr. Crowther, and the subject was mentioned in the earliest edition of the “ First Lines of the Practice of Surgery. Deceived bv the feel of many diseased joints, and influenced by general opinion, I once sup- posed, that there was generally a regular expan- sion of the heads of scrophulous bones. But, excepting an occasional enlargement, which arises from spiculre of bony matter, deposited on the outside of the tibia, ulna, &c. and which alteration cannot be called an expansion of those