95 B RANULA. from the disease making the patient, as it were, croak when he attempts to articulate. Sucli writers, as have treated of this disease, before it was known, that the parts, affected by it, were destined for the secretion of the saliva, could have no accurate notions of its true nature. Cel- sus is supposed to have alluded to the ranula, in the fifth section of his seventh book, where, after treating of the diseases of the tongue, he con- tinues with the following passage: sub lingua, quoque interdum aliquid abeedit, quod fere con- sistit in tunica, dolorcsque magnos movet. The latter circumstance, however, renders it probable, that some other affection was signified, as a ra- nula is rather attended with a sense of restraint, than of pain. Fabricius ab Aquapendente con- sidered ranula as an encysted tumor of the meli- ceris kind. Dionis is of a similar opinion. Munick, better acquainted with the modern dis- coveries of anatomy, does not mistake the nature of the present disease; and he expressly says, that the affection originates from a thick saliva, which, not being able to pass out of the salivary ducts, accumulates under the tongue, so as to cause a swelling in that situation. Far from adopting the opinion of Munick, Heister fell back to that of Fabricius, and borrows every thing from this author.—Lastly, De La Faye, in his notes on Dionis, has taken up Munich’s sentiments; he says, that, “ there are two sorts of ranulae; some, which are round, and situated beneath the tongue, seem only to be produced by a dilatation of the excretory duct of the sub- lingual gland; the others are longer than they are round; are situated at the side of the tongue, and are formed by a dilatation of the excretory duct of the inferior maxillary gland. The fluid, which fills such tumors, is the saliva, which gra- dually accumulates in them, in consequence of its viscidity and the atony of the duct. Ranula is said to be frequently met with in persons who move their tongue a great deal, and in those who sing, The fluid in the tumor is precisely like white-of-egg; but, it is thicker after having remained along while in the swelling; and it is occasionally of a calcareous, and even stony nature. Ranula does not proceed from an in- spissation of the saliva, as De la Faye supposed, but from an obliteration of the duct, or orifices of this tube. The collection often produces a tumor of very large size; but, the swelling ge- nerally bursts when it has attained the dimensions of a walnut, and then leaves an ulcer, which cannot be healed while the real cause of the dis- order remains unknown. Mr. B. Bell mentions his having seen an ulcer of this kind treated with the utmost care for several months; various detergent and cor- rosive applications had been employed; and even a mercurial course ; but all in vain. At length, the true cause of the disease having been ascer- tained, a cure was accomplished in a few days, bv removing a piece of calcareous matter, which, bv obstructing the ducts, had first caused a swelling, and then ulceration. The opening, when made with a lancet, and not of sufficient size, frequently closes up again. In this case the swelling re-appears some time afterwards. The ancients made the same re- having seen ranulae, which recurred in eonse-” quence of a mere opening having been made with a lancet, and he recommends, for the pre- ' vention of this inconvenience, the application of a mixture of honey of roses, and vitriolic acid to the inside of the cyst, so as to destroy it. As Louis remarks, all authors seem to regret that the situation of the tumor should prevent the sac from being totally dissected out. The suc- cess, which Fabricius ab Aquapendente expe- rienced, when he merely opened the tumor its whole length, did not free him from this preju- dice ; and Heister says, he should prefer extir- pation, if the nature of the adjacent parts, liable to be wounded, were not a formidable objectiop. But if this pretended cyst, this pouch, is nothing else than the gland itself, or its duct, dilated by the retention of the saliva, it should not lie irri- tated. Whenever a sufficient opening is made, no relapse takes place. Munick particularly ad- vises such an incision, and Rossius mentions the smallness of the opening, among the defects in the treatment, and its being a cause of the dis- ease returning. However, he also recommends destroying the sac; but specifies, for the pur- pose, only astringent drying applications, which act in a less powerful manner. In a ranula of moderate size, there is nothing like a cyst absolutely requiring extirpation. It is generally enough to lay the cavity open, and cut off the edges of the incision, when they will not otherwise unite. M. Louis always observed that the radical cure depended on a fistulous aperture, through which the saliva continued to flow; and that, when this opening was situated behind the lower incisor teeth, a very annoying ejaculation of the saliva took place, in certain motions of the tongue. The cure cannot be complete, unless this inconvenience be obviated. For this purpose, such an opening for the saliva must be made, as will not close. The ranula, when of long standing, is some- times so large as absolutely to hinder a person from articulating. Le Clerc has recorded a case, in which the root of the swelling extended under the tongue; the tumor filled the whole mouth; the prominence which it formed outwardly was as large as a duck’s egg; and the disease, in its progress, had made the teeth of both jaws project outward. At some parts of its surface, a fluc- tuation was perceptible; other places were ex- ceedingly hard. The patient, who could scarcely breathe, demanded assistance; and a puncture was made in the softest part of the outside of the swelling. A thick yellowish fluid issued out of the'ranula. The opening was enlarged with a knife, and about a pint of gritty inodorous matter was extracted. There was no hemorrhage from the cut; and no sooner had the contents of the swelling been let out, than the patient began to articulate, which he had not been able to do for a long while. The sides of the tumor being so prodigiously distended, Le Clerc thought pro- per to destroy the inside of the cavity with a tent, dipped in a mercurial solution. The cure was completed in a month, and the tongue gradu- ally regained its original size, a part of which it had lost. But, as M. Louis observes, fortunate as the . . - . . . . i.„