878 alluded to, OvS1 . j w move sinr n . - CJ < stage. =• ,r o B J f3 ° ^ . 3 0> -• £> sc7= =: 3 I ►—* r+ fD 00 <C OPHTHALMY precisely the seat of Beer thinks, will tend 5eing mistaken for in- lal sac. Inflammation I, comprehends, first, ymal gland; secondly, rymal sac, a disorder, hrymal sac and nasal ids with great rapidity Jiarts of the lachrymal flammdtion of the cu- be encanthis inflamma- taria. In the same way, inflammations of the eyeball admit of a classification, which is of the highest practical importance, first, into the erysipelatous inflammation of the sclerotic conjunctiva, the ophthalmitis erysipelatosa, which denotes that form of the disorder, which is first entirely con- fined to the membrane connecting together the eyelids and eyeball. Secondly, into inf anima- tion of the outer textures of the eyeball, the ophthalmitis externa, originating in the cornea and sclerotica. Thirdly, into inflammation of the innermost textures of the eyeball, the oph- thalmitis interna, which has two forms highly necessary to be recollected in practice ; for the inflammation may begin immediately in the re- tina, choroides, the membrane of vitreous hu- mour, &c. and spread from these textures to all the rest of the eyeball, being named true internal inflammation of the eyeball, or ophthalmitis interna vera, and thus discriminated from an- other case, which is originally seated in the iris, the adjoining corpus ciliare, the lens and its cap- sule, and afterwards extends from these parts to the more deeply situated coats and to the texture of the vitreous humour. This last form of in- ternal inflammation of the eyeball is named both by Schmidt and Beer, iritis. The classification then embraces a view of the different forms of ophthalmy, as modified by constitutional causes; as the effect of contagious and infectious diseases, measles, small-pox, &c.; and as a complication of certain cachexiae, like gout, rheumatism, and scurvy. Although I have thus given a brief delineation of Beer’s classification of ophthalmic inflamma- tions, it is not my design in the subsequent co- lumns, to enter into a full consideration of every particular case, above enumerated; first, because the limits of this volume will not permit me to do so ; and secondly, because some of these cases have been already considered in other parts of the work. (See Lachrymal Organs.) Common Inflammation of the Eyelids. This form of disease is said by Beer to affect the upper much more frequently, than the lower eyelid, because the former obviously has a larger surface exposed to injuries from without; nor does the complaint always spread to the latter. From the margin of the eyelid, a very red, tense, painful swelling arises, attended with heat, throb- bing, and a great deal of tenderness, when touched. It gradually extends over the whole eyelid ; but seems to be plainly bounded by the edge of the orbit. The motion of the eyelid is always more or less obstructed, and, at length, when the inflammation has reached its greatest degree, it is completely prevented. Nor is theie any difficulty in comprehending why, when the inflammation has become severe, the eye should be excessively dry, and every attempt on ti„; part of the patient to move the eyelid should 9 , productive of considerable pain, and of a semi.,, tion, as if some sharp extraneous substances lift under the lid ; for, at this period, the palj>ebr)..» conjunctiva is already severely inflamed, .inrff consequently, the secretion of mucus from tlj£ Meibomian glands is immediately stopped lit the inflammation itself, while that of the tears -l interrupted partly by the extension of the inflaniL mation to the sclerotic conjunctiva, and partly® the effect of the sympathetic connexion existi® between the conjunctiva of the eyelid, and that the eyeball. To this last cause, viz. syrnpathiL Beer refers the supervening dryness and slint veiling up of the lachrymal papillae, as well as tltt apparent closure of the puneta lachrymalia, an the uneasy dry state of the edges of the eyelid* Hence, also, the dryness of the adjacent nostri jj and a very disagreeable smell of dust obliging! the patient to sneeze repeatedly, which act constantly attended with a great increase of pai|£t in the swelling, a transient shooting of it to tin * eye and head, and a sensation as if flashes aL light were elicited within the eyeball; a kind (|L hallucination, technically named photopsia. A* , the original seat of the inflammation is already.. extensive, one may readily understand, sayh Beer, why the affection in its first stage, partit:: cularly when neglected, or bably treated, shoulH frequently give rise to some febrile disturbance®, of the system. In the second stage of the case, or that suppuration, which follows when the inflammatioji is violent and not soon dispersed, matter form»j with the annexed train of symptoms. The red* ness suddenly increases very much, the eyefill becoming of a brownish red, and lastly of purplish red colour. The swelling becomes mor« prominent, and presents a conical eminences either in the middle of the eyelid, or close to tin outer or inner canthus. The pain is irregular, and of a stinging, burning kind, a throbbing bein^ felt only in the deeper part of the tumor. At length, the swelling becomes somewhat softer;! ‘ and less sensible at its most projecting point. Tha secretion from the Meibomian and lachrymaj glands, which in the first stage of the disorder was suppressed, is now quite re-established, bull more copiously, than in the healthy state! During, sleep, a quantity of mucus accumulate^ between the edges of the eyes, and glues them together. An extraordinary sensation of coldl and heaviness is felt all about the eye. Ul- timately, the most prominent point of the swell-tl,* mg presents a pale red colour, followed by ai yellowish livid tinge. As the abscess is now completely formed, the fluctuation of the mattei can be plainly felt. (Beer, B. 1, p. 269, <$-c.) According to the same author, nothing very particular is known respecting the causes of the preceding form of ophthalmic inflammation, and, with the exception of blows, he has not been able to discover the precise circumstances, which give rise to it. With regard to the prognosis, if the treatment be neglected, or injudicious, the inflammation may suddenly become so violent, as to produce in weak subjects gangrenous mischief. But, when the ease is properly managed in its first stage :