C86 IIY DROPHTH A LMI A. ing from a morbid quantity of the aqueous humor, the first indication of the disease is an increase in the dimensions of the cornea, attended with a manifest enlargement of the anterior chamber. The cornea may become in this manner, two, three, or even four times wider, than natural, without bursting, or losing its transparency; for, though a turbid appearance is discernible, this depends rather upon the state of the aque- ous humor itself. The iris, which, in the very commencement of the disease, begins to lose its mobility, soon becomes completely motionless, and acquires a duller colour; the pupil always remaining in the mid-state between contraction and dilatation. In the eye-ball, an annoying sense of pressure, tension, and heaviness is felt, rather than actual pain. In the beginning of the disease, there is a considerable degree of far- sightedness, or prtesbyopia, which soon changes into a true amaurotic weakness of sight, but never terminates in perfect amaurosis. The free motions of the eyeball are more and more interrupted, in proportion as the organ grows larger, and it has invariably a hard feel, while the sclerotica, to the distance of two lines from the margin of the cor- nea, is as bluish, as it is in the newborn infant. Respecting the precise cause of the accumu- lation of the aqueous humor, Beer offers no ob- servation, worthy of repetition, excepting per- haps that, in which he reminds us, that a similar collection happens apparently as an effect of the conical staphyloma of the whole cornea. (See also War drop's Essays on the Morbid Ana- tomy of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 19.) Indeed, as far as our knowledge yet extends, it is impos- sible to say, whether the changes of the cornea are, in the present disease, to be regarded as the cause, or the effect of the increased quantity of the aqueous humor, or, whether, as seems to me most probable, both phenomena are only effects of one and the same cause. The examples, somewhat repugnant to this idea, are thgse re- ferred to by Beer, as symptomatic of other drop- sical affections. On the other hand, Mr. Ward- rop has never seen a preternatural collection of the aqueous humor, without its being accom- panied with disease of the coats of the eye. ( Vol. cit. p. 20.) In hydrophthalmia, the prognosis is generally unfavorable, and, when the sight is nearly or quite lost, scarcely any hope can be entertained, either of restoring vision, or preserving the shape of the eye. Yet, according to Beer, things are not always quite so unpromising in the preced- ing form of the disease, especially, when the sur- geon is consulted in time, and the patient’s con- stitution is not exceedingly impaired. The same experienced author has never seen any instance, in which the eye spontaneously burst: on the contrary, when the habit was decidedly bad, and the treatment ineffectual, the disease became gradually conjoined with the second species of dropsy of the eye, and terminated in a frightful disfigurement of the whole organ and death. On dissection, the innermost textures of the part were found spoiled and disorganized, and some- times even the orbit itself carious, (ho/, cit. p. 619.) With respect to the treatment, Beer thinks, that this must depend very much upon the nature of the primary disease, to which the dropsical affection is ascribable as an effect. lie has known great benefit sometimes produced by the submuriate of mercury, combined with di- gitalis, and a drink containing supertartrate of potassa, and borax. When the disease has been preceded by the sudden cure of any cutaneous disease, he has faith in the method of attempting to restore the affection of the skin by inocula- tion, or, if that be impracticable, by stimulating its surface with antimonial ointment, or making an issue. This plan is to be aided with internal alterative medicines, such as camphor, the sul- phur auratum antimonii, and flowers of sulphur. The local applications, which he prefers in the early stage, are warm dry bags filled with aroma- tic herbs, and rubbing the parts about the eye- eyebrow, sometimes with mercurial ointment, sometimes with a mixture of aether and liquor ammoniac. But, when the disease has made considerable progress, and vision is either weak, or nearly lost, while the sclerotica near the cornea is not much discolored, and there are no appearances cf a varicose affection of the blood-vessels of the organ, Beer recommends, making a puncture with a small lancet in the lowest part of the cornea, half a line from the sclerotica, so as to discharge the aqueous humor. The anterior chamber is then to be kept empty for several days, or weeks, ifpossible, by re-open- ing the small wound every day with the point of the lancet. (See also Richter's Anfangsgr. B. .'1, p. 403.) After the operation, the eye is to be dressed in the same way, as after the extraction of a cataract. (See Cataract.) Previously to the paracentesis, Beer has often seen every ge- neral and local means perfectly useless, but highly beneficial, as soon as that operation had been practised. Even when the paracentesis fails in bringing about a permanent cure, it may still be resorted to as a palliative with great ad- vantage, and be often beneficially repeated, if care be taken not to make the puncture too large. However, when the blood-vessels are generally varicose, and the constitution very bad, such operation is apt to excite violent inflammation, suppuration, and even sloughing of the organ, attended with imminent danger to the patient’s life. (Beer, vol. cit. p. 620, 622.) With regard to the second species of hydroph- thalmia, or that depending upon a preternatural accumulation of the vitreous humor, Beer states, that, in this case, it is chiefly the posterior pait of the eyeball which is enlarged, so that the whole organ acquires a conical shape, in which the cornea very much participates. The latter membrane remains unaltered in regard to its diameter; but, it is more convex, than natural, and-its transparency is;perfect. It is observed by Mr. Wardrop, (on Morbid Anatomy of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 126,) that an increase in the quantity of the vitreous humor happens not un* frequently in staphyloma, in which disease, he says, the enlargement of the eyeball will gene- rally be found to arise more from an increase in the quantity of the vitreous, than of the aqueous humor, and he then expresses his belief, that the case, adduced by Scarpa to illustrate the patho- logy of hydrophthalmia, and cited in the ensuing part of this article, was an example of staphyloma. Be this as it may, one character constant in staphyloma, is often absent in hydrophthalmia; I mean, opacity of the cornea. In the case, which