AMPUTATION. the axilla. (See Sabatier's Midicinc Operatoire, t. 3. ]>. 393—3.99. edit. 2.) Larrey, who has had frequent opportunities of amputating at the shoulder-joint, has aimed at the same object which Desault did, but, in his earlier operations, he was in the habit of beginning with the formation of the external, or posterior flap, for the following reason : by proceeding in this way, the surgeon can tie the humeral artery more safely, because the ligature is applied after the operation is entirely finished, and conse- quently at a time when there is nothing to be attended to but the hemorrhage. Thus, the pa- tient being placed on a stool, and well supported, the arm is to be raised from the side, and the axillary artery compressed from above the cla- vicle. The integuments and other soft parts of the upper and outer parts of the arm are then to be pushed away from the humerus, and the ex- ternal flap formed. It is now very easy to cut the tendons of the infra-spinatus, and teres mi- nor, and open the outside of the joint. The limb is to be carried inward, and luxated backward. The tendons of the supra-spinatus and biceps are to be divided, and as soon as the head of the bone is out of the glenoid cavity, the knife is to be carried along the internal part of the head and neck of the humerus, with its edge close to the bone. An internal flap, equal to the external one, is io be formed, consisting of a portion of the deltoid, great pectoral, biceps, and coraco- brachialis, muscles, and including the brachial vessels and nerves. The artery is to be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and tied. Any other vessels, which require a ligature, are also now to be secured. Larrey puts some charpie betwixt the flaps, and brings them towards each other by the usual means. (See Mim. <ie Chir. Militaire, r. 2. p. 170.) Of this method of put- ting charpie to prevent union by the first inten- tion, I entertain the most unfavourable opinion. When Larrey published his campaign in Egypt he had operated in this way on nineteen patients, thirteen of whom recovered. But, at a subse- quent period, he and his colleagues had amputated at the shoulder, in the above manner, in upwards of a hundred cases, more than ninety of which recovered. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. t. 4. p. 432. 8tv. Paris, 1817.) In his later operations, he has adopted the innovation of first making a longitudinal incision from the acromion to about an inch below the neck of the humerus, down to the bone, so as to divide the fleshy part of the deltoid into two even parts. This cut, he says, facilitates and renders more exact the rest of the operation. From this wound, the incisions for the flaps are continued. Having made the foregoing incision, “ 1 direct an assistant to draw up the skin of the arm towards the shoulder, and I form the anterior and posterior flaps by two oblique strokes of the knife made from within outwards and downwards, so as to cut through the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi. There is no risk of injuring the axillary vessels, as they are out of the reach of the point of the knife. The cellular connexions of these two flaps are to be divided, and the flaps themselves raised by an assistant, who, at the same time, is to compress the two divided circumflex arteries. The whole joint is now exposed. By a, third sweep of the knife, carried circularly over the head of the humerus, the capsule and tendons running near the articu- lation are cut; and the head of the bone being inclined a little outwards, the knife is to be car- ried along its posterior part, iri order to finish the section of the tendinous and ligamentous attach- ments in that direction. The assistant now ap- plies his forefingers over the brachial plexus, for the purpose of compressing the artery, and com- manding the current of blood through it. Lastly, the edge of the knife is turned backwards, and the whole fasciculus of axillary vessels are cut through, on a level with the lower angles of the two flaps, and in front of the assistant’s fingers. The patient does not lose a drop of blood ; and ere the compression is remitted, the extremity of the axillary artery' is readily seen, taken up with a pair of forceps, and tied. The circumflex arteries are next secured, which completes the operation.” (Mem. de. Chir. Mil. I. 4. p. 428. Paris, 1817.) In addition to these important deviations from his earlier method, he now brings the flaps together with two or three straps of adhesive plaster, and interposes no charpie. ( P. 429.) It should be observed, also, that he lays no stress on first making the outer flap; though, from the description, it does not exactly appear which flap he now begins with. He has changed, likewise, on another point of importance; viz. instead of preferring La Faye’s plan, in certain examples already specified, he affirms, that the above described way of operating is applicable to almost every case met with in military' practice. First, because all gunshot wounds, generally', which mutilate the arm, so as to create thenecessitv for the operation, partly' or entirely destroy' the centre of the deltoid, while there is always enough flesh left at the sides for making the two flaps. Secondly', because, in the very rare instances,where the lateral parts of the shoulder are destroyed, and the middle untouched, no advantage would be gained by' operating in La Fay'e’s manner, as Larrey' conceives that the detached flap would slough, or become, as he terms it, disorganized. Here Larrey now prefers dividing the middle piece of flesh, and giving the flaps the same shape as if they were uninjured. He even asserts, that the operation, done without any flaps at all, answers better, than any method, in which the surgeon preserves flaps not naturally' intended for the part. Thus, when all the flesh of the shoulder has been shot away, he has seen sur- geons cover the glenoid cavity' with a flap, saved from the soft parts of the axilla; but sucli flaps invariably sloughed, hemorrhages ensued, and the patients died. (P. 430—431.) Some of these latter observations are, clearly enough, the result of great partiality to a particular method of operating; because who can doubt, when the lateral parts of the shoulder are injured, as they frequently are (and not very' rarely, as Larrey asserts), by the passage of a musket-ball through the shoulder, from before backwards, that the right method is that of La Faye ; or the same operation, with the slight difference of making the flap of a semicircular shape ? It was for eases of this description that Mr. Collier and I operated after La Faye’s plan, with perfect success, after the battle of Waterloo ; and a poor fellow of the rifle brigade, who was brought in too late for operation, and died of sloughing, had his shoulder