BLEEDING. 223 it becomes necessary, in the first place, to make a cut in the skin, and then puncture the vessel. The bleeding generally stops without any trouble; and may always be suppressed with a compress and bandage. In a very few cases, the blood bursts forth from time to time, and more is lost than is necessary. When this happens, not- withstanding pressure, it is recommended to di- vide the vessel completely across, which facilitates the process of nature in closing the end of the vessel. Sometimes an aneurism follows, which must be treated on the principles explained in a foregoing article. See Aneurism. Cavalline cured the disease by dividing the vessel, and compres- sion. (C't>llcZ' di Casi Cnir. t. 2.) TOPICAL BLEEDING. — CDPPING. This is done by means of a scarificator, and a glass, shaped somewhat like a bell. The scari- ficator is an instrument containing a number of lancets, sometimes as many as twenty, which are so contrived, that when the instrument is applied to any part of the surface of the body, and a spring is pressed, they suddenly start out, and make the necessary punctures. The instrument is so constructed, that the depth, to which the lancets penetrate, may be made greater or less, at the option of the practitioner. As only small vessels can be thus opened, a very inconsiderable quantity of blood would be discharged, were not some method taken to promote the evacuation. This is commonly done with a cupping-glass, the i air within the cavity of which is rarified, by the flame of a little lamp, containing spirit of wine, 1 and furnished with a thick wick. This plan is preferable to that of setting on fire a piece of tow, dipped in this fluid, and put in the cavity of the t glass; “ a clumsy expedient, adding unneces- sarily to the sufferings of the patient, by caute- rizing the skin ; doing harm also by rarifving the air more than necessary within the glass, in con- : sequence of which the edges of the cup compress the cutaneous vessels so much as to obstruct the influx of blood. The larger the glass, if pro- perly exhausted, the less pain does the patient sutler, and the more freely does the blood flow.” |' (See Maplesnn’s Treatise on the Art of Cupping, I p. 63—65. 12 mo. Load. 1813.) When the | mouth of the glass is placed over the scarifica- I tions, and the rarified air in it becomes condensed i as it cools, the glass is forced down on the skin, ! and a considerable suction takes place. This professor of the said art says, that when the operation is about to be done, a basin of warm t A’ater, a piece of fine sponge, and a lighted candle, ihould be provided. As many of the cupping- t i ’lasses as may be judged necessary are to be put n the basin. If sixteen or twenty ounces of flood are to be taken away, four glasses, of a size adapted to the surface to which they are to >e applied, will generally be required. Each glass s then to be held for an instant over the flame >t the spirit-lamp, and immediately placed upon he 3kin. Upon the quickness with which this * done, the neatness and efficacy of the operation '’ill depend. If dry cupping be only intended, heglasses maybe allowed to remain on the skin for 1 cw moments, and be rqdaced five or six times, " 1 a little variation of their position, in order '■> preveut the skin from being hurt by their pressure. If the intention be to scarify and take away blood, the glass ought not to remain more than a minute, when the scarificator is to be in- s tan tip applied; for by the quickness with which the application of the scarificator succeeds the removal of the glass, the patient is saved a de- gree of pain, which he would otherwise suffer from the making of the punctures. When the glasses are so full as to be in danger of falling off, or the blood is coagulated in them, they should be removed, emptied, and applied again. For the sake of neatness, care should be taken to insert the nail under the upper part of the glass, and remove it so as to keep its bottom down- wards, the scarifications being at the same time wiped with a sponge, wet in warm water. The glasses also, previously to each application, should be rinsed in warm water, but not dried. For these, and some other useful directions, see Ma- plesnn’s Treatise, p. 64, &‘c. Trials have been made of syringes, calculated for exhausting the air from cupping-glasses ; but the plan is not found so convenient as that above described. A common pledget, or bit of rag, is usually applied as a dressing for the punctures made with a scarificator. If a little smarting be not minded, Mr. Maple- son prefers the application of arquebusade water, or spirits of wine, as it immediately stops the oozing of blood, and prevents subsequent itching. (P. 69.) LEECHES. Leeches are often preferable to cupping, which is attended with more irritation than many sur- faces, under particular circumstances, can bear, especially when the topical bleeding is to be fre- quently repeated; and they can be used in cases in which it would not be safe or convenient to employ the lancet. Formerly medicinal leeches were very abund- ant in England, but owing to their now being in greater request, and to the draining and cultiva- tion of waste lands, it is necessary to import large supplies from the continent, chiefly from Bour- deaux and Lisbon. As much imposition prevails in this branch of commerce, it should be under- stood, that unless a leech be marked with yellow rings, or spots, or with variegated lines, running the whole length of the back, it will generally be found useless. (See A 'Treatise an the Medicinal Leech, bp J. 11. Johnson, p. 133. 8tv. Land. 1816.) When leeches are to be kept in any considerable quantity, this gentleman recom- mends them to be placed in a large vessel, pro- vided with a false bottom, so perforated as to allow them a ready passage. “ This false bottom • should be raised from three to six inches above the real bottom, or to such an extent as will admit of a turf, of nearly equal dimensions, being placed between them. It should fit clo'dy to the sides, that the earth may not be disturbed by the frequent introduction of fresh water. It is neces- sary that the vessel be also furnished with a stop- cock, in order that the water may be drawn oil as often as may be considered expedient. But previ- ously to outplacing the leeches in this vessel, they should be singly examined. If, on being handled, they contract, and feel hard and firm, it affords