LACHRYMAL ORGANS. f notice. In speaking of the prognosis, he bserves, that when the case is not neglected, ior wrongly treated in its first stage, and the nflammatTon has not extended to the lachrymal ae, the prognosis is very favourable; for, after H he subsidence of the inflammation, a temporary tony of the lachrymal puncta and ducts, an im- ■erfect conveyance of the tears into the nose, ,.nd of course a slight oozing of them over the heek, most troublesome in cold, wet weather, ,re the chief inconveniences which remain. But, vhen the lachrymal sac participates in the in- flammation, the prognosis is much less favour- .ble; because, when suppuration takes place, ulceration is apt to form an opening in the front .jart of the sac, or else, during the second stage, i large quantity of mucus may collect in the sac, j . ind, if not skilfully treated, it frequently ends in a a very obstinate blennorrhoea of that part. As IBeer observes, this is a case which is often, . hough quite erroneously, named a fistula lachry- malis. (B. 1, p. 3dG.) The prognosis is also very favourable in the ■.second stage of the complaint, as long as the • suppuration is restricted to the integuments, and t is characterized by desquamation and scabbing; but, the case is more serious, when a large col- lection of matter forms, and particularly when the .abscess makes its way into the lachrymal sac. [In these last circumstances, an obstinate blen- r norrhoea from the sac often follows, notwith- standing the fistulous sore be treated in the most .-skilful manner, and sometimes the matter sspreads so far around, as to spoil, and even an- : nihilate, the lachrymal canals, and cause an I irremediable dropping of tears over the cheek, during the rest of the patient’s life. (Beer.) The suppuration (says Mr. McKenzie) may c destroy the ligamentous layer of the lower eye- ; lid, and end in the total obliteration of the ca- vity of the sac. But when the sac is not thus : annihilated, and the lachrymal canals are de- i stroved, it is necessary that the cavity of the sac ; should be obliterated by artificial means; for otherwise a form of disease will follow, which Beer denominates hydrops sued lachrymails, and Mr. M'Kenzie, mucocele, as will be here- . after noticed. “ In common cases, a piece of folded linen, . dipped in cold water, and applied to the parts affected, and the administration of gentle doses of sulphate of magnesia, make up the treatment. In severe cases, it will be found necessary, not only to continue the cold applications, and to t open the bowels, but to administer an emetic of t tartrate of antimony, to purge freely, and even ' sometimes to take away blood from the arm.” ' (M'Kenzic, p. '24.) In the second stage, a warm dry air, and a linen compress, are commended, with the ex- hibition of diaphoretics. In the two first of these means, I confess, that I should place little or no confidence. When the formation of mat- ter cannot be prevented, poultices are to be used. Beer particularly cautions us not to leave the abscess to burst of itself, but to open it imme- diately a fluctuation can be felt, so as to pre- vent an ulcerated opening from taking place in 749 the sac and subcutaneous abscess, he should avoid all unnecessary disturbance of the parts with probes and syringes, and, at most, only wash out the abscess once a day with Anel’s syringe, filled with luke-warm water and a little of the vinous tincture of opium. Beer also re- commends introducing into the superficial ab- scess, but not into the sac, a small quantity of lint, dipped in the tincture. If the blennorrhoea of the sac continue, it is to be treated as will be explained in considering the second stage of in- flammation of that part. Inflammation of the Lachrymal Sac.—Ac- cording to Beer, the symptoms of the first stage of this complaint are as follows : in the corner of the eye, precisely in the situation of the la- chrymal sac, a circumscribed, very hard, tender swelling arises, of the shape of a bean, pro- ducing a lancinating pain when it is touched, and gradually acquiring considerable redness. The absorption and conveyance of the tears into the lachrymal sac, and thence into the nose, are completely interrupted ; the lachrymal papillae are shrunk; the puncta cannot be seen ; and of course the tears fall over the cheek. The nos- tril on the aflected side is at first very moist, but soon becomes perfectly dry, the mucous membrane being a good deal affected. As the inflammation also constantly spreads to the or- bicular muscle and integuments in the corner of the eye, the complaint often presents an erysi- pelatous appearance, extending to the eyelids and down the cheek; but, the circumscribed swelling, caused by the inflamed sac, is still not only capable of being distinctly felt, but even seen. It rarely happens, in cases of common inflammation, that, on the change of the first stage into the second, the nasal duct is rendered impervious by an effusion of lymph ; but such an occurrence is more frequent where the in- flammation is not of a healthy description, and the patient is scrophulous. Under these cir- cumstances, the lachrymal canals may also be permanently obliterated. In weak, irritable constitutions, towards the end of the first stage of the inflammation, a degree of symptomatic fever prevails, with severe head-ache, great red- ness and swelling of the whole inner can- thus, involving the caruncula lachrymalis, the semilunar fold, the conjunctiva, the edges of the eyelids, and the lachrymal puncta. Here as in inflammation of every mucous membrane, at the very commencement of the second stage, a copious morbid secretion takes place, and accumulates in large quantity; for, either in consequence of the thickening of the mucous membrane, the adhesion of the sides of the nasal duct together, or there being no mix- ture of the tears, the secretion within the sac cannot escape either into the nostril, or out of the lachrymal puncta, and consequently it dis- tends in a prodigious degree the anterior side of the sac, where it is uncovered by bone. Hence, the swelling ia here very manifest, and a fluctua- tion may be felt in it, even before the suppurative stage has actually begun. According to Beer, whoever is induced by the fluctuation to open the lachrymal sac at this period, will certainly the anterior part of the lachrymal sac. And, if bring on a very hurtful suppuration of the part, the surgeon has not been consulted before such exceedingly likely to render the excreting parts a communication has been established between of the lachrymal organs completely unservice