57 2 HEAD, of using tlie trephine in cases of depression, un- attended with urgent symptoms; in one of these instances, the upper and posterior angle of the parietal, which had been struck by a musket-ball, was depressed exactly an inch and a quarter from the surface of the scalp, yet no bad symptoms followed, and with the aid of bleeding and other antiphlogistic remedies, the soldier recovered perfectly in a few weeks. “ In a similar case, where the man survived thirteen years, with no other inconvenience, than occasional determina- tion of blood to the head on hard drinking, a funnel like depression to the depth of an inch and a half was formed in the vertex.” (See Henncn's Military Surgery, p. 287, Ed- 2.) If then the violence of the symptoms is not always in proportion to the compression, but is sometimes considerable when the pressure is slight, every surgeon cannot be too fully im- pressed with the following truth, that existing symptoms (f dangerous pressure on the brain, which symptoms will be presently related, can alone form a true reason for perforating the cranium. The mode of operating, in order to elevate depressed portions of the skull, is ex- plained in the article, Trephine In military surgery, particular cases present themselves, which scarcely admit of being com- prehended within the tenor of any general rules and principles Thus, it sometimes happens, that a ball breaks the osfrontis, and the whole or a part of it lodges in the frontal sinus, with, or without fracture of the inner boundary of this cavity. In cases of this description, Baron Larrey ' recommends exposing the course of the fracture by a free incision, and the use of the trephine for the removal of the extraneous body. When the inner side of the sinus was found broken and depressed, he next perforated that part of the cavity with a small conical trephine, took away such pieces of bone as required removal, and let out any extravasated blood. Sometimes, how- ever, the front of the sinus is so splintered, that the fragments, when taken away with the forceps, leave the cavity sufficiently opened, not only for the extraction of the ball, but for the application of the trephine to the inside of the sinus, as we find exemplified in one of the two cases of this nature, which Larrey met with in the Egyptian campaign. {Mem. de Cliir. Militaira, T. 2, p 188.) After the battle of Witepsk, in 1812, he was called to two Russian soldiers, whose cases were remarkable; one of them had been struck above the right eyebrow, with a grape-shot, which, after breaking and penetrating the frontal bone, entered the cavity of the cranium, so as to lodge upon the anterior right lobe of the brain, and the orbitar process and internal crista of the os frontis. Notwithstanding the large size of the ball, little of it could be seen externally, and the aperture, through which it had passed, was not more than three, or four lines broad: every attempt to extract it, therefore, was vain. The patient experienced a painful sense of op- pression and weight in the head, and, whenever he inclined it backward, was seized with syncope. He kept himself constantly in a sitting posture, with his head on his knees. Larrey adds, that every symptom ol compression of the brain also prevailed, though this account is latliei difficult to comprehend, considering that the patient could sit up, and choose his posture. As for any de- scription given by himself, of his sufferings, that is another circumstance, on which 1 should not be inclined to dwell, supposing, that, probably, the Baron was not able to converse in the Russian language, and that the inferences, respecting the man’s feelings, were made in some other way. But, whatever might be the real state of the sym- ptoms, (and in a case of this kind a correct account of them would have been interesting,) the ball was plainly ascertained, by means of a probe, to be of iron, and of much larger diameter, • than the opening, through which it had entered ; and. that for the purpose of extracting it, the application of the trepan was urgently necessary. 'I he fracture was fairly brought into view by suitable incisions, three perforations were made with a small trephine at its upper part, and, after the removal of the angles of the bone between these perforations, the ball, which weighed seven French ounces, was readily extracted with the aid of a strong pair of forceps, and an elevator. A considerable quantity7 of coagulated blood was also removed, under which the brain was found with a depression of three or four lines deep. As soon as some splinters of the bone had been taken away, the part was dressed with a bit of fine linen dipped in warm wine, sweetened with sugar, over which were placed pharpie, several compresses, and a bandage. With respect to the application of warm wine, and other stimulants, to the sur- face of the brain, in wounds exposing or interest- ing that organ, it seems to be an invariable prac- tice with Larrey, as well as Schmucker, and the older surgeons. On what principle, the custom is still kept up? and whether it is truly right and useful? are questions, which may be ration- ally put. In whatever way experience may hereafter decide these matters, suffice it to add, that the patient was relieved by the treatment, and fell into a quiet sleep for two hours; but, in the evening, he became feverish, and the wound acutely painful. A considerable quantity of blood uTas taken from the vena saphena, (and why bleeding was not practised at first, seems extraordinary.) The dressings, which acord- ing to my ideas, were highly objectionable, were removed, and a large emollient poultice applied. Cooling beverages, containing a small q iantity of tartarized antimony, and antispasntodic ano- dyne medicines, were prescribed. The following day, the patient’s state appeared satisfactory, without the slightest disturbance of the senses, and, in due time, he perfectly recovered The other soldier had been wounded in the left temple, with a lead ball, five days before Larrey saw him. One half of the ball had gone into the cranium, through a very narrow breach ; the other had burrowed under the temporal muscle, and lodged near the mastoid process. The right side of the body was paralytic, the senses were annihilated, and the man was in a state of inces- sant agitation. After dilating the wound in the temple, and exposing the fracture, Larrey dis- covered the track of the piece of lead, which had gone towards the mastoid process and which he immediately extracted by a counter-opening. At the lower part of the temporal wound, he applied a trepan, very near the spot, where the other portion of the ball was lodged. This, with some fragments of the bone, and extravasated