ISSUE. ni ischuria re nails, or suppression of urine, ami belong- to the province of the physician; the second is an exceedingly frequent disorder, is named ischuria vesicalis, or retention of urine, and its treatment is altogether surgical. Every thing relative to it will be found in the articles Catheter, and Urine, Retention of. ISSUE signifies an ulcer, made designedly by the practitioner, and kept open a certain time, or even the patient’s whole life, for the cure, or prevention, of a variety of diseases. The physician, in his practice, has frequent occasion to recommend the making of an issue, and the surgeon finds it a principal ffteans of re- lief in several important cases, as, for instance, the white swelling, the disease of the hip-joint, caries of the vertebrae, &c. Many persons are never in health, or, at least, fancy themselves always ill, unless they have an issue formed in some part of their body or another. The making of an issue, indeed, is not unfrequently con- sidered as an imitation of nature, who, of her own accord, often forms ulcers and abscesses in various parts of the body (as is not uncommonly conjectured) for the purpose of discharging per- nicious humours, whereby people are supposed to be freed from grievous disorders, and have their health preserved. The humoral pathologists were excessively partial to these notions, which, at the present time, will be found by every ex- perienced practitioner to influence the mass of mankind, and render the formation of issues more common, than perhaps is consistent with the better established principles of medical science. Few old subjects will allow a sore of long standing to be dried up (as the expression is), without re- quiring the surgeon immediately afterwards to make an issue for them. When an ulcer has existed a great length of time, the constitution may possibly become so habituated to it, that the health may really suffer from its being healed. “ I have often (says the experienced Dr. Parry) seen various thoracic affections, as pulmonary consumption, asthma, carditis, or hydrothorax, arise from the spontaneous, or artificial cure of ulcers, perpetual blisters, or fistulae.” (Elements of Pathology, Sfc. p, 386.) Asthmatic com- plaints, severe headachs, &c. are frequently ob- served to follow the cicatrization of an old ulcer; but, whether they would have happened, if an issue had been made in time, is a question dif- ficult of positive determination ; for, many per- sons with old ulcers are not prevented from suf- fering from asthma, and headach. The plan of making an issue, however, is commendable both as rational and exempt from danger. Whatever may be the solidity of the theories, which have been offered by medical writers, in regard to issues, the practitioner, who has his eyes open, cannot fail to see the benefit often derived from such means; and if there be any unquestionable facts in medicine and surgery, we may con- fidently set down amongst them the frequent pos- sibility of relieving one disease by exciting an- other of a less grievous and more curable na- ture. There are two ways of making an issue; one is with a lancet, or scalpel; the other with caustic. The place for the issue being fixed upon, the surgeon and his assistant are to pinch up a fold of the integuments, and, witli a lancet or knife, make in them an incision of sufficient size tn hold a pea, or as many peas as may be thought proper. The pea, or peas are then to be placed in the cut, and covered with a piece of adhesive plaster, a compress, and bandage. The peas, first inserted, need not be removed for three or four days, when suppuration will have begun; but, the issue is afterwards to be cleaned arid dressed every day, and have fresh peas put into it. The preceding is the ordinary method of making such issues, as are intended to contain only one or two peas. When the issue is to be larger, which is ge- nerally proper, in cases of diseased vertebra*, white swellings, &c., the best plan is to destroy a portion of the integuments with caustic. The caustic potassa, blended with quicklime, is mostly preferred for this purpose. The situation and size of the issue having been determined, the surgeon is to take care, that the caustic does not extend its action to the surrounding parts. With this view, he is to take a piece of adhesive plas- ter, and having cut a hole in it, of the exact shape and size of the issue intended to be made, he is to apply it to the part. Thus the plaster will defend the adjacent skin from the effects of the caustic, while the uncovered portion of inte- guments, corresponding to the hole in the plas- ter, is that which is to be destroyed. The caustic is to be taken hold of with a bit of lint, or tow, and its end, having been a little moistened with water, is to be steadily' rubbed upon the part of the skin, where the issue is to be formed. The frictions are to be continued, till the whole sur- face, intended to be destroyed, assumes a darkish corroded appearance. The caustic matter may now be carefully washed off with some wet tow. The plaster is to be removed, and a linseed poul- tice applied. As soon as the eschar is detached, or any part of it is loose enough to be cut away, without pain, or bleeding, the peas are to be in- serted and confined in their proper place with a piece of adhesive plaster. Some use beans for the purpose; others, beads, which answer very well, and have the advantage of serving for any length of time, when washed and cleaned every day. If the issue is at all of a longitudinal shape, the peas, beans, or beads, may be more easily kept in their places, when a thread is passed through them. Issues ought always to be made, if possible, in a situation, where the peas will not be much disturbed in the ordinary motions of the body, nor interfere with the actions of muscles. The interspaces, between the margins and insertions of muscles, arc deemed the most eligible places. Thus, issues in the arm are usually made just at the inferior angle of the deltoid muscle, by the side of the external edge of the biceps. In the lower extremities, issues are often made at the inner side of the thigh, immediately’ above the knee, in a cavity’, that may’ be readily felt there with the fingers. Sometimes, issues are made upon the inside of the leg, just below the knee. For the relief of any affections of the head, or eye, the nape of the neck is commonly selected as a good situation. In caries of the vertebra:, they’ are made on each side of the spinous pro- cesses. In eases of diseased hips, they are formed in a depression just behind and below the tro- chanter major. When the nature of the disorder ;