DISLOCATION. S'iJ ami either one, or both of its condyles may become displaced in this direction. Every dis- location, except that forward, is rendered im- possible by the formation of the parts. The lower jaw cannot even be dislocated forward, unless the mouth, just before the occurrence of •he accident, be very much open. Whenever the thin is considerably depressed, the condyles slide from behind forward, under the transverse root of the zygomatic processes. The cartilagi- nous cap, which envelops (he condyles, and follows them in all their motions, still aflords them an articular cavity ; but, the depression of the bone continuing, the ligaments give way, the condyles „glide before the emvient'ne arltcnlaies, and slip under the zygomatic arches. Hence, a disloca- tion mostly happens, while the patient is laugh- ing, gaping, Ac. A blow on the jaw, when the mouth is wide open, may easily cause the acci- dent. The case has occasionally arisen from the exercise of great force in drawing out the teeth. | Whenever the jaw has once been dislocated, the same causes more easily reproduce the occur- rence. In certain individuals, the ligaments are so loose, and the muscles so weak, that a dislo- cation is produced by any slight attempt to yawn, laugh, or (as Lamotte has observed) to bite any substance, which is rather large. (Lt- vriliS, \<mi tlic Doctrine CliiruigicaU, 7«jm. 2. i. 5+.) There have been persons, who could scarcely ever laugh heartily, without their lower aws being luxated. But, of all the causes of this lccurrence, yawning alone, even without the com- filiation of any external force, is by far the most rommon. When the jaw is depressed, and its angles, to he external sides of which the masseters are lttached, are carried upwards and backwards, if hese muscles contract, the greater part of their orce is employed to bring the condyles into the tygomatic depression. (Bm/er.) Dislocations of the lower jaw are attended with x great deal of pain, which Boyer imputes to the pressure produced bv the condyles on the deep seated temporal nerves, and those going to the nasseters, which nerves pass before the roots of .lie zygomatic process. The mouth is wide jpen, and cannot be shut. It is more open in ecent dislocations, than in those, which have continued for some time. An empty space is elt before the ear, in the natural situation of .he condyles. Thecoronoid process forms under he cheek bone a prominence, which may be felt ■hroiigh the cheek, or from within the mouth. 1 he cheeks and temples are flattened by the engthening of the temporal, masseter, and buc- rinator muscles. The saliva Hows in large piantitles from the mouth, the secretion of which luid is greatly increased by the irritation of the iir. The arch, formed by the teeth of the lower aw, is situated more forward than that formed by he teeth of the tipper jaw. During the first five lays after the accident, the patient can neither ipeak, nor swallow. (Bnt/er.) When only one -ondyle is dislocated, the mouth is distorted, and •urned towards the opposite side, while the fellow •eeth of the jaws do not correspond. However, Mr. Hey asserts, that frequently the position of he chin is not perceptibly altered. (Practical [i. :522.) "hen the accident has remained unreduced for several days or weeks, the symptoms are not so well marked. In such instances, the chin becomes gradually approximated to the upper jaw ; the patient recovers by degrees the faculty of speaking and swallowing; but, he stammers, and the saliva dribbles from his mouth. The sufferings, induced by a dislocated jaw, are cer- tainly great enough to be sometimes fatal, if the case continue unrectified; but, we are not to believe Hippocrates, when he positively declares the accident mortal, if not reduced before the tenth day. Monteggia attended a man, two months after such a luxation, which had not been understood, and Fabricius ab Aquapendente assures us that he had never seen the prognostic of Hippocrates verified, though he had had many patients of this sort under his care. (Levtillt, Nouvelle Doc- trine Cliir. T. 2, p. 58.) Dislocations of the lower jaw are to be re- duced in the following manner : The surgeon is first to wrap some linen round his thumbs to keep them from being hurt by the patient’s teeth, and then introduce them into the mouth, as far as possible on the grinding teeth. At the same time, he is to place his fingers under the chin and base of the jaw, and while he depresses the molares with his thumbs, he raises the chin with his fingers, by which means the condyles become disengaged from their situation under the zygo- mas ; at which instant the muscles draw those parts so rapidly back into the articular cavities again, that the surgeon’s thumbs might some- times be hurt, did he not immediately move them outward between the cheek and the jaw. The reduction being accomplished, a fresh dis- placement is to be prevented by applying a four- tailed bandage, as recommended for the fractured jaw. The patient should for some time avoid eating food, which requires much mastication. The ancients used to place two pieces of stick between the grinding teeth, and, while they used these as levers to depress the back part of the bone, they raised the chin by means of a bandage. John de Vigo has described this method from Salicetus, Lanfranc, and Guido di Cauliaco; hut, it is not preferable to the modern plan, in regard to efficacy ; and it has the disadvantage of ex- posing the teeth to injury. DISLOCATIONS OF THE VEllTEBR.®. The large surfaces, with which these bones support each other; the number and thickness of their ligaments ; the strength of their muscles; the little degree of motion which each vertebra naturally has; and the vertical direction of the ar- ticular processes ; make dislocations of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae impossible, unless tiiere be also a fracture of the above mentioned processes Of these cases I shall merely remark, that they can only result from immense violence; that the symptoms would be an irregularity in the dis- position of the spinous processes, retention or incontinence of the urine and feces, paralysis and a motionless state of the lower extremities, the effects of the pressure, or other injury, to which the spinal marrow would he subjected. Similar symptoms may also arise, when the spi- nal marrow has merely undergone a violent con- cussion, without any fracture or dislocation what- ever; and, it is certain, that most of the cases