CON in certain operations. It is more commonly called a director. CONDYLOMA, (from xovSvXo;, a tubercle, or knot.) A small, very hard tumor. The term is generally applied to excrescences of this description about the anus. The practitioner may either destroy them with the lapis infernalis, tie their base with a ligature, so as to kill them, or remove them at once, with a knife: the first is generally the worst; the last the best and most speedy method. CONIUM MACULATUM. Hemlock— Cicuta. This is a medicine to which my ob- servations in practice incline me to impute con- siderable efficacy in several surgical diseases. However, there is no doubt, that, when it is re- presented as a certain cure for cancer, and scro- fula, exaggeration is employed. It is an excel- lent remedy for irritable painful sores of the scro- fulous kind, and it will complete the cure of many ulcers, in which the venereal action has been de- stroyed by mercury, though the healing does not proceed in a favourable way. Hemlock is likewise beneficial to several inveterate malig- nant sores, particularly, some which are every now and then met with upon the tongue. It is an eligible alterative in cases of noli me tan- gere, porrigo, and various herpetic affections. I have seen several enlargements of the female breast give way to hemlock conjoined with calo- mel. Some swellings of the testes also yield to the same medicines. Hemlock certainly has not the power of curing cancer; but, its narcotic ano- dyne qualities tend to lessen the pain of that distemper, so as to render it by no means a con- temptible remedy in that intractable kind of case. Respecting hemlock, Mr. Pearson observes, that the extract and powder may be sometimes given with evidently good effect in spreading ir- ritable sores ; whether they are connected with the active state of the venereal virus, or whether they remain after the completion of the mercu- rial course; and it would seem, that the benefit, conferred by this drug, ought not to be ascribed solely to its anodyne qualities, since the same advantages cannot always be obtained by the liberal exhibition of opium, even where it does not disagree with the stomach. He states, that cicuta is almost a specific for the venereal ulcers, which attack the toes at their line of junction with the foot, and which frequently become gran- grenous. Also in spreading sores, which are accompanied with great pain, and no appearance of remarkable debility, hemlock will often do more than bark, vitriol, or cordials. The com- mon mode of exhibiting hemlock is in the form of pills, made of the extractum conii, five grains to each. However, I have always thought three grains sufficient to begin with, the dose being •afterwards gradually augmented. It is curious how large a quantity may at last be taken in this manner. Mr. J. Wilson, in his Pharmacopeia Chirurgica, informs us of a remarkable case of cancerous ulcer, for which the patient took a hundred and twenty pills, each consisting of five grains of the extractum conii, in twenty-four hours, and this without any benefit being pro- duced, or any inconvenience to the patient. The stomach being a little disordered, and the 'cad somewhat giddv, is a sign of the dose being sufficiently strong. CON 339 “ According to some writers, but more parti- cularly Dr. Withering, there are several ways, in which the views of a medical practitioner, in pre- scribing this remedy, may be frustrated. The plant chosen for preparing the extract may not be the true coniwm maevl it urn, which is distin- guished by red spots along the stalk. It may not be gathered when in perfection, namely, when beginning to flower. The inspissation of the juice may not have been performed in a water- bath. but, for the sake of dispatch, over a com- mon fire. The leaves, of w hich the powder is made, may not have been cautiously dried and preserved in a well stopped bottle; or if so, may still not have been guarded from the ill effects of exposure to light. Or, lastly, the whole me- dicine may have suffered from the mere effects of long keeping. From any of these causes, it is evident, the powers of cicuta may have suf- fered ; and it happens, no doubt, very frequently, that the failure of it ought, in fact, to be attri- buted to one or other of them.” (Pharmuco- pee>u Chirurgica, published in 1802, p. 174.) I have sometimes prescribed as an alterative with manifest benefit in several surgical diseases, a pill containing three grains of extractum conii, one of hydrargyri submurias (calomel,) and one of antimonii sulphuretum prsecipitatum. (F. Hoffman, cf Hemlock, 8tv. Loud. 1763. A. St'orck, Libellus, quo demnnstratur cicutam nun solum usu interno tutissime e.t hiberi, sed et esse simul remedium valde utile, Sic.; Editio altera, 8eo. Vmdob. 1761. Also Supplement inn Ke- cessarium de Cicuta, 8 vo. Vmdob. 1761. J. Pearson, On various Articles of the Materia Medicare. ‘2d Edit. Son. Lond. 1807.) CONTUSED WOUNDS. (See VfTimnds.) CONTUSION, (from contundo, to bruise.) A bruise. Slight bruises seldom meet with much atten- tion ; but when they are severe, very bad conse- quences may ensue, and these are the more likely to occur, when such cases are not taken proper care of. In all severe bruises, besides the inflammation which the violence necessarily occasions, there is an instantaneous extravasation, in consequence of the rupture of many of the small vessels of the part. In no other way can we account for those very considerable tumors, which often rise im- mediately after injuries of this nature. The black and blue appearance, instantly following many bruises, can only be explained by there being an actual effusion of blood from the small arteries and veins, which have been ruptured. Even largish vessels are frequently burst in this manner, arid considerable collections of blood are the consequence. Blows on the head very often cause a large effusion of blood under the scalp. 1 have seen many ounces thus extravasated. Besides the rupture of an infinite number of small vessels and extravasation, which attend all bruises, in a greater or less degree, the tone of the fibres and vessels, which have suffered contu- sion, is considerablydisordered. Nay, the violence may have been so great, that the parts are from the first deprived of vitality, and must slough. Parts at some distance from such as arc actu- ally struck, may suffer greatly from the violence of the contusion. This effect is what the French have named a contrecaup. / 2