JOINTS. 725 larlv circumstanced, they often become acutely painful, when inflamed. The complaint is ac- companied with an increased secretion of the synovia, which becomes of a more aqueous, and of a less albuminous quality, than it is in the healthy state. Hence, it is not so well calcu- lated for.lubricating the articular surfaces, and preventing the efl'ects of friction, as it is in the natural condition of the joint; a circumstance, which may explain, why a grating sensation is often perceived on moving the patella. The capsular ligaments, like other ports, are frequently thickened by inflammation, and, some- times, coagulating lymph, being effused on their internal surfaces, organized cartilaginous, or os- seous bodies, are formed within the joints. It has been explained by Mr. Brodie, that the usual consequences of inflammation of the sy- novial membrane, or capsular ligament, arc; 1. a preternatural secretion of synovia, 2. an effusion of coagulating lymph into the cavity of the joint, 3. a thickening of the synovial mem- brane, a conversion of it into a substance resem- bling gristle, and an effusion of eoagulable lymph, and probably of serum into the cellular struc- ture, by which it is connected with the external parts. The same gentleman has seen several cases, where, from the appearance of the joint, and the symptoms, there was every reason to believe, that the inflammation had produced ad- hesions of the reflected fold of the membrane to each other: and, in dissection, he has occasionally observed adhesions, which might have arisen from inflammation atsomeformer period. “These effects of inflammation of the synovial, very much resemble those of inflammation of the serous membranes. There are, however, some points of difference. In the former, I have reason to believe, that suppuration rarely takes place inde- pendently of ulceration; but, this is a frequent occurrence in the latter. Inflammation of the peritonaeum, or pleura, though very slight in degree, and of very short duration, terminates in the effusion of eoagulable lymph; but, it is only violent, or long continued inflammation, which has this termination in the membranes of joints.” (Brodie in Mai. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 216.) When the inflammation attains a high pitch, an abscess may occur in the capsular ligament, which at length ulcerates, and the pus makes its way beneath the skin, and is, sooner or later, discharged through ulcerated openings. An abscess rarely takes place in an important articulation, in ccnsequence of acute inflamma- tion, without the system being, also, so deranged, that life itself is imminently endangered. Severe febrile symptoms always affl.ct tiie patient, and, i occasionally, delirium and coma taking place, death itself ensues. Two rapidly fatal cases of ulceration of the synovial membrane, where matter had formed within it from a sprain of the hip, and a contusion of the shoulder, are re- corded by Mr. Brodie. (See Pathol. Chir. Obs. p. 65.) In these cases, the inflammatory fever is very quickly converted into the hectic; indeed, when an abscess has taken place in a large joint, in consequence of acute inflammation, hectic sym- ptoms almost immediately begin to shew them- selves, and the strong actions of the common inflammatory fever suddenly subside. Local consequencff, even worse than those above described, may follow inflammation of a joint. As the layer of the capsular ligament, re- flected over the cartilages of the articulation, is often inflamed, the cartilages themselves may have the inflammation communicated to them. Parts of a cartilaginous structure, being very incapable of bearing the irritation of disease, often ulcerate, or, in other words, are absorbed, so as to leave a portion, or, the whole, of the articular surface of the bones, completely denuded of'its natural covering. At lengPh, the heads of the bones themselves Inflame, and become carious; or the consequence may be anchylosis. Mr. Brodie has seen some cases, in which there was exten- sive destruction of the cartilages, apparently in consequence of neglected inflammation of the synovial membrane; but, he believes, that in most cases, where ulceration of the cartilage is combined with such inflammation, the former is the primary affection, and the latter takes place sub- sequently, in consequence of the formation of an abscess within the joint. (Pathol. and Surg. Ob a. <^c. p. 17.) According to Mr. Brodie, who speaks chiefly of the inflammation, which beginsin the synovial membrane itself, and is not com- municated to it from other textures, the disease very seldom attacks young children, but is fre- quent in adult persons, the reverse of what happens in some other diseases of the joints. The inflammation of the capsular ligament, or synovial membrane, frequently assumes the chronic form, and is then very often confounded with other more serious maladies, under the ge- neral appellation of white-swelling. The disease often arises from cold, and hence is more com- mon in the knee and ankle, than in the hip, or shoulder. It may also arise from the immode- rate use of mercury, and, in particular constitu- tions, from rheumatism and general debility of the system. In these instances, it often leaves one joint and attacks another; and it is less severe, and less disposed to produce effusion of coagulating lymph, or a thickened state of the membrane, than when it is apparently a local disease. (Brodie, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 218.) In the latter case, the disorder is more likely to assume a severe character, and may be of long duration, leaving the joint with its functions more or less impaired, and occa- sionally terminating in its total destruction. The following are the chief symptoms of the com- plaint, pointed out by Mr. Brodie. At first, al- though some pain is felt over the whole joint, the patient refers it principally to one spot, and it is not at its height, before the end of a week or ten days. Sometimes, even at this period, the pain is trifling, but sometimes it is considerable, and every motion of the joint is distressing. In a day, or two, after the commencement of the pain, the joint is affected with swelling, which at first arises entirely from a collection of fluid in its cavity, and, in the superficial joints, an undu- lation may be distinguished. However, after the inflammation has prevailed some time, the fluid is rendered less perceptible, either in con- sequence of the synovial membrane beihg thick- ened, or the effusion ot lymph ; and the more solid the swelling is, the more is the mobility of the joint impaired. The form of the diseased joint does not correspond to that of the heads ol