‘ NECROSIS. to think the periosteum so essential to ossification, or the production of a new bone, that lie attempts to explain the cause of fractures of the patella not becoming united by a bony substance, by adverting to the deficiency of periosteum upon it; a circumstance which he deems also a strong argument against Mr. Russell's doctrine. (See Hutchison s Practical Obscrv. in Surgery* p. 141, 142.) These very same cases, however, fractures of the patella, do sometimes unite by bone, and, therefore, while Mr. Hutchison is urging them as facts against Mr. Russell’s opinion, Baron Larrey is actually adducing them in its support. (See Journ. Complem. du Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 8.) The experiments of Breschet and Villerme (see p. 470 of this Diet.) are de- cidedly against the periosteum being exclusively the organ of ossification. * Professor Boyer does not refer all the work of reproducing bones exclusively to the periosteum in every instance; but joins Weidmann in be- lieving, that what seems a new bone is sometimes only a separation and thickening of the external layers of the original bone, which have escaped destruction. He notices the modifications, to which the phenomena of necrosis are subject when the disorder affects the whole thickness, and the whole, or the greater part, of the cir- cumference of a long cylindrical bone. When the periosteum is destroyed together with the bone, and the medullary membrane, which does the office of an internal periosteum, is preserved, Boyer represents the latter membrane as under- going similar changes to those which we have mentioned as taking place, under other circum- stances, in the external periosteum, and he de- scribes it as becoming tiie organ by which the new bone is formed. (See Traite dcs Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 432.) But when the whole thickness and circumference of a long bone are destroyed, together with the medullary mem- brane, while the periosteum survives, Boyer agrees with Troja, &c. in believing the latter membrane to be the means by which the new bone is generated. The internal surface of the new bone is lined by a new membrane, which serves as a perios- teum, and is at first hardly distinguishable. (Troja, p. 56.) In the early state, it is soft and pulpy; {ibid. p. 22); but, by degrees, it grows thicker and firmer, and is at Jength con- verted into a true membrane, which sends a great number of vessels into the substance of the bone. When this membrane is torn off, the surface, which it covered, is found somewhat smooth, the edges of the bony layers, and projections of the fibres being blunt and rounded. The cavity of the new bone includes, and al- most entirely conceals, the dead fragments. Sometimes, however, the new bone forms a sort of bridge over the sequestrum, in such a man- ner that the cavity is open above and below, in both which situations the sequestrum can be felt. (ITurdcr, in Med. Ohs. and Inquiries, Vol. 2, p. 418.) Sometimes, it is only a narrow cross-piece, which forms the bridge retaining the sequestrum. ( Weidmann, vid. Tab. 5, Fig. 1, a.) The new bone may also have an opening in it, out of which the dead portion protrudes. (/b. p. 35.) Sometimes the cavity of the new bone is ^11 gle; while, in other instances, there are sevei successive cavities in the direction of the lenal I of the bone, with transverse interspaces betwej them; or else the cavities are situated lateral} with respect to each other, and divided by ptji titions. ( Weidmann, Tab. 7, Fig. 2.) These cavities are proportioned in size a 1 shape to the fragments of dead bone, whl j, lodge in them. It occasionally happens, ti k they open into some neighbouring joint, sLum bring on suppuration there: a very unfavol kt able complication. (Ibid. p. 34, and Tab.\v Fig. 3 ; also, Buyer, Traite dcs Mai. Ch ( Tom. 3, p. 435.) Let us next follow Weidmann, and take notlal of the holes, by which the cavities, including tipi dead pieces of bone, open externally, whd I Troja denominated the large foramina, and whi i i the preceding excellent writer preferred callil a the cloacae, because they serve to convey ou m ward the matter and any separated pieces f.i bone. In the beginning of the disorder, thj * are not observable, a certain space of time all $ pearing to be requisite for their formatiqi They are noticed in long cylindrical bonqi whether original, or of new production, whcJt cavities contain dead fragments. These openings vary in number: when t f sequestrum is small, only one is found; bujtj when the piece of dead bone is extensive, the I may be two, three, or four. Weidmann nev«j saw more than five. But Troja met with eighl (P.58.) Weidmann possessed a small portic 1 of the diploe of the os innominatum, which w.j affected with necrosis, and contained in a boil 8 cavity, that had no external opening whatever. 1 When there are several distinct cavities in tl same bone, containing dead fragments, each c^ ) vity has at least one external opening. These cloaca, or apertures, are commonttl situated at the lower and lateral parts of the c« vities; pass obliquely outwards; and commuj nicate with fistulous ulcers, which open on til surface of the skin. (David, p. 186.) Somi of the cloacae, however, form at the middle, «l (what is exceedingly rare) at the upper part I the cavities, and proceeding outward, without anj oblique track, go to the front, back, or laterM j parts of the limb. They are of a round, or oval, shape, or nearlt so. Their usual size is such, that it will juil admit a quill, and they vary very little from tliij dimension. They terminate internally by eonvergiiw approaching edges, in the manner of a funnel! while, on the contrary, the margins of thej outer extremity expand. The canal, between these two orifices, is sometimes long, sometime! short, and in certain cases of no extent at all. Different opinions have been broached, r«| specting the causes, which produce the apertur*) in the new bone, termed by Wiedmann tlH cloaca. M. David says, that the pus, collecting in (tj early stage of the disease between the bone ati‘ the periosteum, distends and corrodes this men>t brane, and that the openings which form in become afterwards a cause of fistula; in the ncj bone. (P. 186.) But, it is observed-J>y Wci<j maun, tliut this explanation is inadmissible, siuti