LITHOTOMY. 767 It is saiil, that stones are occasionally forced, by the pain became intolerable, and the patient went the violent contractions of the bladder, during into the Hdpital de la Charite. He was sounded; tits of the complaint, between the fasciculi of the the stone was felt, and judged to be of consider- nniscular coat of this viscus, together with a por- .able size. The incision in the neck of the blad- tion of the membranous lining of the part, so as der not sufficing for its extraction, the patient to become what is termed encysted. The open- was put to bed again. The next morning, he ing into the cyst is frequently very narrow, so was operated upon above the pubes by Frere that the stone is much bigger, than the orifice of Come, who extracted an oval calculus that the cyst, in consequence of which it is impossible weighed twenty-four ounces. The patient died to lay hold of the extraneous body with the for- four and twenty hours after this second opera- ceps, and the operation would necessarily become lion. This case proves, then, that very large fruitless. (Sharp's Critical Inquiry, p. 228, stones may lie in the bladder without occasioning Edit. 4.) any serious complaints, since the preceding In the article Urinary Calculi, I have noticed patient apparently had had such a calculus a the probability of this having occurred in some of long time, without suffering inconvenience from the instances, in which Mrs. Stevens’s medicine it, and it seems likely, that he might have con- was supposed to have actually dissolved the stone tinued well still longer, had it not been for the in the bladder ; for, an encysted stone is not accidental effort, which first excited the sym- likely to be hit with the sound, nor to cause any ptoms. (Dcschamps, in Traite Ilistorique, fyc. inconvenience, compared with what a calculus, dc la Taille, Tom. 1, p. 16'G, 167.) rolling about in the bladder, usually occasions. A priest, in whom Morand had ascertained It is remarked by Deschamps, that when the the presence of a stone by sounding, could not stone is lodged in an excavated corner of the be persuaded, that his case was of this nature, bladder, in a particular cyst, or depression; when However, he bequeathed his body at his decease it projects but very little; when it cannot shift its to the surgeons, and the examination of the situation in the bladder, so as to fall against the bladder fully justified Morand’s prognosis. The orifice of this viscus; and when it is also smooth, celebrated D’Alembert also died with a stone polished, and light; the patient may then have it in his bladder, having always refused to be a long while, without experiencing any afflicting sounded. (Richerand, Op. cit. T. 3, p. 538.) symptoms. He may even live to an advanced A question may here suggest itself: ought age, if not without some degree of suffering, at lithotomy to be practised where calculi are under all events, with such pain as is very supportable, a certain size? Certainly not, because they fre- Daily experience proves, that persons may live quently admit of being discharged with the urine, a considerable time, with one, two, or even three without any operation at all, even from the male stones in the bladder, and, during the whole of subject, and howmuch more likely this is to happen their lives, have not the least suspicion of the in females, must be plain to every body who recol- existence of these foreign bodies. lects the direct course, the shortness, ample size, According to Deschamps, this must have been and dilatability of the meatus urinarius. On the case of M. Portalieu, a taylor. This indi- this subject, various facts will be adverted to in vidual, eighty years old, was frequently attacked considering the operation of lithotomy in women, with a retention of urine from paralysis, and Des- Sometimes, also, when a calculus is too large to champs introduced a sound several times, and pass completely through the male urethra, it distinctly felt a stone in the bladder. The patient, lodges in this passage, where it maybe more however, never had any symptom of the disorder, safely cut upon and removed, than from the nor even at the end of two years from the time bladder; and sometimes it is actually discharged when Deschamps was first consulted. Very large by' an ulcerative process. Thus, Dr. R. A. and exceedingly rough stones have also been Langenbeck has published an example, in which found in the dead bodies of persons, who had a stone made its way out by ulceration, and was never complained of the symptoms of the dis- discharged immediately behind the testes. (See ease. Thus, at the anatomical Theatre of La J. C. Langenbeck, Bill, fiir die Chir., Gott. Charite, Richerand found an enormous mulberry 1809.) And G. Coopmans has recorded an al- stone in the bladder of a person, who died alto- most incredible case, in which a calculus, weigh- getlier of another disease, and never had any ing five ounces, one drachm and a half, when symptom, that led to the suspicion of the stone, being dried, was discharged on the left side of (Nosograpliic Chir. T. 3, p. 530, Edit. 4.) the urethra of an elderly man, a little below the But, cases of this kind must be rare, because it glans penis. In fact, without some further ex- is well known, that the pain, which a stone pro- planation, this case would be pronounced im- duces, is less in a ratio to its size, than to its possible ; but, it should be recollected, that after shape and situation. A small stone, owing to a small calculus has made its way out of the its situation, may be more painful, than an enor- urethra by ulceration, if the urine have still access mous calculus, which fills the bladder, as is proved to it, it will continue to increase in size in its by the following case, by Deschamps. new situation ; and this is what happened in the Pochet, a watchmaker, until the age of forty- present example; for, the extraneous body, when five, had never had any infirmity, except that of first felt externally, was not larger than a pea. not being able to retain his water a long while. The calculus is now preserved in Camper’s mu- One day, while he was carrying a very heavy scum. (G. Coopmans, Neurologic, Boo. Era- I clock, he made some exqrtions, which, probably, nequerae, 1795.) I am not meaning, however, to by changing the situation of the calculus, caused recommend surgeons to let the patient encounter at the instant an acute pain in the hypogastric all the sufferings which must inevitably attend fgion. Symptoms of the stone soon came on; leaving the business to be completed by ulccru-