BOUGIE. 229 7)c Vulncribus Ostium. Uelmst. 17-4:5. A. Bonn, Tub. Ostium Morbosorum prascipue The- sauri /[ovian(, ftil. si»ist. 1 88. C. I1 • 1 losm sins, tteber die Krankheiten der Knochen, 12run. Tubing. 1799- A. G. Naummin, Di: Ostitide, 4(„. jjps. 1818. B. Nesbitt Human Osteogeny ; tu-o lectures on the nature of Ossification, 8«><>. Lend. 1786. Sandifort Museum Anatomicttm Lugduno Batura; Description, 2 Vat. fol. Lugd. 1793. Weidmann, De Neerosi Ossitim, fol. Francof. 1793; Brodie on Discuses of Joints, Sco. Loud. 1818; ILnrship in Med. Chir. Trans, and various other publications specif cd at the end of the article. Necrosis. BOUGIE,—Is a smooth flexible instrument, which is introduced into the urethra for the cure of diseases of that passage; (See Urethra.) and is so named from its generally containing wax in its composition, and bearing some resemblance to a wax taper, in French, bougie. However, the kinds of bougies are various, and some of them, employed in modern surgery, so far from having anv similitude to a wax-taper, are formed altogether of metal. They admit of being divided into those which are solid; and others, which are hollow, and are more commonly named catheters. (See Catheter.) The exact period, when bougies were first used, is a doubtful point in the history of sur- gery. Bv Andrew Lacuna, a Spanish physician, the invention is ascribed to a Portuguese empi- ric, and in 1551, the same author published what had been communicated to him upon this subject. In the year 155-4, Amatus Lusitanus published a work, in which he refers to several witnesses to prove, that the empirical practi- tioner, above alluded to, had learned from him the use of bougies, while, on the other hand, he candidly owns, that he himself was indebted to Aldereto, of Salamanca, for a knowledge of these instruments. In 1553, however, Alph. Ferri, of Naples, endeavoured to shew, that his ac- quaintance with the utility of bougies reached as far back as 1548, and, of course, that he had anticipated Lacuna, and perhaps even Aldereto. But, instead of representing himself as the ori- ginal inventor of bougies, he mentions that they were known to Alexander of Tralles, which, if true, carries back the invention to the sixth century. A. Ferri, also before describing bougies and escharotic ointments, mentions various means for examining the state of the urethra, and, amongst other tilings, cylinders made of flexible lead, and of different sizes. Escharotic oint- ments for what were termed camositics of the urethra, and bougies, were also described by Petronius in 1565, and afterwards by A. Pare,. I he oldest bougies, which were wicks of cotton, or thread, covered with wax, and escharotic plasters, were in time succeeded by those com- posed of linen smeared with wax. This change was made with the view of letting them have a hollow construction; an improvement, which "as first noticed bv Fnbricius ab Aquapendcnte. (Op.Chir. 1617.) In the middle of the I 7th century, the manner <4 making and using bougies was well known to Scultetus, as appears from his Armamentarium C-hiring, ub. 13, fig. 9, 10. 1 he making of bougies has now become so dis- ■ inct a trade, that it may be considered super- fluous to treat of the subject in this dictionary. However, though a surgeon may not actually choose to take the trouble of making bougies himself, he should understand how they ought to be made. Swediaur recommends the follow- ing composition: ] Ceroe flavae lhj, Spermatis ceti 3 ii.), Cerussae acetata; ^v. These articles are to be slowly boiled together, till the mass is of proper consistence. Mr. 1>. Bell’s bougie plaster is thus made: Jjy, Emplastri lythargyii i*iv, Cerae flavte fjiss, Olei Olivae Jiij The two last ingredients are to be melted in one vessel, and the litharge plaster in another, before they are mixed. In Wilson’s Pharmacopoeia Cliirur- gica, I observe this formula: [-g Ulei Olivae lbiiss, Cerse Havre lbj, Minii lbiss. Boil the ingredients together over a slow lire, till the minium is dissolved, which will be in about four or six hours. The composition for bougies is now very simple, as modern surgeons place no confidence in the medicated substances, formerly extolled by Daran. The linen, which may be considered as the basis of the bougie, is to be impregnated with the composition, which is generally wax and oil, rendered somewhat firmer by a proportion of resin. Some saturnine pre- paration is commonly added, as the urethra is in an iiritablc state, and the mechanical irritation might otherwise increase it. Of whatever com- position bougies are made, they must be of dif- ferent sizes, from that of a knitting-needle to that of a large quill, and even larger Having spread the composition, chosen for the purpose, oil linen rag, cut this into slips, from six to ten inches long, and from half an inch, to an inch, or more in breadth. Then dexterously roll them on a glazed tile into the proper cylindrical form. As the end of the bougie, which is first introduced into the urethra, should .be somewhat smaller than the rest, the slips must be rather narrower in this situation, and, when the bougies are rolled up, that side must be outward, on which the plas- ter is spread. Daran, and some of the older writers, attri- buted the efficacy of their bougies to the com- position used in forming them. On the contrary, Mr. Sharp apprehended that it was chiefly owing to the pressure, which was made on the affected part; and Mr. Aikin adds, that as bougies of very different compositions, succeed equally well in curing the same diseases in the urethra, it is plain, that they do not act from any peculiar qualities in their composition, but by means of some common property, probably, their mechani- cal form. As the health^ as well as the diseased parts are exposed to the effects of bougies made of vorv active materials, modern surgeons always prefer such as arc made of a simple unirritating compo sition. Plunclc recommended bougies of catgut, which may be easily introduced into an urethra, even when it is greatly contracted, their size beimt small, their substance firm, and dilatable by moisture. It is objected to catgut, however, that it sometimes expands beyond the stricture, and gives great pain on being withdrawn. Formerly, catgut bougies were sometimes coated with elas- tic gum, a valuable material, of which 1 shall next speak. The invention of clastic bougies and catheters