337 Clit C1N rating directly upon the parts, which are distem- pered. Whatever good it does, is by its improving the tone of’the digestive organs, and making them more capable of conveying nourishment, and, of course, strength into the constitution. I should feel myself guilt}- of a degree of pre- sumption in speaking thus freely upon this sub- ject, were not my sentiments in some measure supported by those of certain surgical writers, the remembrance of whom will always be hailed with unfeigned veneration and esteem. Mr. Samuel Sharp was not bigoted to bark, and, while he allowed it to possess a share of efficacy, he would not admit, that it was capable of mira- culously accomplishing every thing, which the ignorant or prejudiced alledged. “ I know,” says he, “ it will be looked upon by many as a kind of scepticism, to doubt the efficacy of a re- medy, so well attested by such an infinity of cases ; and, yet, I shall frankly own, I have never clearly to my satisfaction, met with any evident proofs of its preference to the cordial medicines usually prescribed; though I have a long time made experiment of it with a view to search into the truth. “ Perhaps, it may seem strange, thus to dis- pute a doctrine established on what is called matter of fact; but, I shall here observe, that in the practice of physic and surgery, it is often exceedingly difficult to ascertain a fact. Preju- dice, or want of abilities, sometimes misleads us in our judgment, where there is evidently a right and a wrong; but, in certain cases, to distin- guish how far the remedy, and how far nature operate, is probably above our discernment. In gangrenes, particularly, there is frequently such a complication of unknown circumstances, as cannot but tend to deceive an unwary observer. Mortifications arising from mere cold, compres- sion, or stricture, generally cease upon removing the cause, and are, therefore, seldom proper cases for proving the power of the bark. However, there are two kinds of gangrene, where internals have a fairer trial; those are a spreading gan- grene from an internal cause, and a spreading gangrene from violent external accidents, such as gunshot wounds, compound fractures, &c. Yet, even here we cannot judge of their effect with absolute certainty; for, sometimes, a mor- tification from internal causes is a kind of critical disorder. There seems to be a certain portion of the body destined to perish, and no more ; of this we have an infinity of examples brought into our hospitals, where the gangrene stops at a particular point, without the least assistance from art. 1 he same thing happens in the other species of gangrene from violent accidents, where the injury appears to be communicated to a certain distance, and no farther; though by the way, I shall remark in this place, contrary to the re- ceived opinion, that gangrenes from these acci- dents, (where there has been no previous s trait- ness of bandage,) are as often fatal, as those from internal causes. ‘ As I have here stated the fact, we sec how 'difficult it is to ascertain the real efficacy of this medicine ; but, had bark in any degree, those wonderful effects in gangrenes, which it has in periodical complaints, its pre-eminence would no n'?r* doubted in the one case, than in the 0 er. What, in my judgment, seems to have raised its character so high, are the great num- bers of single observations published on this sub- ject, the authors of which not having frequent opportunities of seeing the issue of this disorder, under the use of cordials, &c. and some of them, perhaps, prejudiced with the common supposition, that every gangrene is of itself mortal, have therefore ascribed a marvellous influence to the bark, when the event has proved successful.” (Sharp's Crit■ JEnq. chap. 8, on Amputation.) Some further remarks on this subject will be reserved for the article Martijication. According to Mr. Bromfield, bark is a speci- fic for old ulcers, where the inflammation seems circumscribed at the distance of an inch round the sore, the surface of the ulcer looks glossy, and the discharge is extremely thin and very of- fensive, with little or no sleep, from the violence of the pain. He further observes, that the addi- tion of opium, as circumstances may require, will often be found necessary. (Chirurgical Ob- servations and Cases, Voi. 1, p. 132.) Bark is given so extensively in the practice of surgery, that there are few important cases, in which in certain circumstances, and at some pe- riod or another, it is not indicated. When per- sons have been weakened by a course of mercury, or by the effects of any disease whatsoever, moderate doses of bark will frequently be found of great service. But, it only becomes so on the principles above suggested, and, as far as my judgment extends, this medicine should never be prescribed in any surgical cases in excessive and unreasonable quantities. The yellow bark, or the cortex cinchonte cor- difoliae of the new pharmacopoeia, is said to pos- sess more efficacy, than the other kinds. CINNABAR ARTIFICIAL. (Hydrargyri Sulphuretum rubrum.) Is chiefly employed by surgeons for fumigating venereal ulcers. An ap- paratus is sold in the shops for this purpose. The powder is thrown upon a heated iron, and the smoke is conducted by means of a tube to the part affected. CIRCUMCISION, (from circumcidn, to cut round.) The operation of cutting off a cir- cular piece of the prepuce, sometimes practised in cases of phymosis. (See Fhymosis.) CIRSOCELE. (from x/gcoj, a varix, and xYj\n> a thmor.) Cirsocele is a varicose disten- tion and enlargement of the spermatic vein; and whether considered on account of the pain, which it sometimes occasions, or on account of a wast- ing of the testicle, which now and then follows, it may truly be called a disease. It is frequently mistaken for a descent of a small portion of omen- tum. The uneasiness which it occasions, is a dull kind of pain in the back, generally relieved by suspension of the scrotum. It has been re- sembled to a collection of earth-worms; but whoever has an idea of a varicose vessel, will not stand in need of an illustration by comparison. It is most frequently confined to that part of the spermatic process, which is below the opening in the abdominal tendon; and the vessels gene- rafly become rather larger, as they approach the testis. Mr. Fott never knew any good effect from external applications of any kind. In general the testicle is perfectly unconcerned in, and unaffected by, this disease; but it some- times happens, that it makes its appearance very fj