in the chest, without any injury of the lungs WOUNDS. 1193 those organs may, on this account, suffer less f When air issues from the wound in expiration, quently be distinguished, front the very first mo- there is ground for suspecting that the lungs are wounded. But, I believe, that such authors as represent this circumstance as an infallible cri- terion of the nature of the accident, labour under a mistake ; for when there is simply an opening whatever, the same symptom may occur. The air, which is discharged through the wound in expiration, has previously entered the bag of the pleura through the same wound in inspiration. In order to remove all doubt, the patient should be requested to expire, as strongly as he can, so as to force out whatever air may have accumu- lated in the chest. At the end of each expira- tion of this kind, care must be taken to bring the skin closely over the orifice of the wound, and to keep it thus applied, during each following inspiration, for the purpose of preventing the ex- ternal air from entering. In this way, if there be no wound of the lungs, all the air will soon be. expelled; but if it still continues to be discharged in expiration, the lungs must be wounded. Sometimes, an emphysematous swelling takes place round wounds of the thorax, in consequence of a quantity of air diffusing itself in the cellular substance. In wounds, which are straight, and ample, this symptom is very uncommon; but, in cases of narrow oblique stabs, and where the lungs are wounded by the points of broken ribs, it is by no means unfrequent. (See Emphy- sema.) When a considerable quantity of blood flows from the wound, there is reason for con- jecturing, not only, that the weapon has pene- trated the cavity of the thorax, but that some of the thoracic viscera are injured. Excepting the intercostal arteries, which run along the lower edges of the ribs, and the trunks of the thoracic arteries, all the other vessels, on the outside of the chest, are very inconsiderable. The effects of compression will indicate, whether the blood escapes from an artery on the outside of the ca- vity of the pleura; and sometimes, the situation and direction of a wound at once denotes, that the hemorrhage cannot proceed from the trunks of the thoracic arteries. Even the appearance of the blood, which comes from the wound, may lead to some conjectures, concerning the depth of the injury. The blood, which flows from wounds of the lungs, is of a brighter scarlet colour, and more frothy, than that which is discharged from the vessels of any other part. There can be no doubt of the lungs being wounded, when the patient is observed to spit up blood; but, the absence of this symptom is not a positive proof of their being untouched, though unquestionably, a very important circum- stance in the diagnosis, and, generally speaking, a correct criterion of the lungs having escaped injury. At all events, when no blood is spit, or coughed up, the lungs can never be deeply penetrated. The state of the pulse, and- that of respiration, ought to be particularly attended to by the prac- titioner. Neither one, nor the other, seems al- tered, at least at first, when wounds do not reacli more deeply than the integuments; but, those, which penetrate the cavity of the thorax, and, especially, such as injure the viscera, may fro- ment of their occurrence, by their effects on the sanguiferous system, and the function of respi- ration. When the lungs are wounded, at a point where they adhere to the pleura, no air can be effused in the thorax, and the functions of disturbance than would be the consequence of an equal degree of injury at some other unadherent portion of the lungs. Experience proves, that when either air or blood insinuates itself between the lungs and the pleura, the lungs become im- mediately oppressed, the breathing is attended with great difficulty, the pulse is weak, con- tracted, and intermittent. Wounds of the integuments and muscles of the thorax, are not attended with any particular danger; they heal with the same readiness, and by the same means, as common, superficial wounds in any other part of the body". When the case is a punctured, or a gun-shot wound, some writers are advocates for laying open the track of the injury, from one end to the other, if its course should not be too exten- sive, and they then recommend dressing the cavity down to its bottom. When the track of the wound was too extensive, a seton was some- times introduced. The aim of such exploded practices was to prevent the outer part of the wound from healing too soon, and thus give time for the whole of it to heal in an equal de- gree. When a seton was used, the thickness of the skein was gradually diminished, and, after the whole of it had been removed, a slight compres- sion was kept up for a fe\v days, with the view of completing the cure. The French surgeons have the discredit of having brought setons into fashion in this branch of surgery, and I am particularly glad, that a late writer has well exposed the absurdity of the practice. “ We find (says Mr. John Bell) the history of it to be plainly this : that as Guy de Chauliac, Pare, and all the older surgeons, did not know how to dilate gun-shot wounds, they found these same setons useful in bringing the eschar sooner away', and in preserving an open wound; and, as they believed the wounds to be poisoned, they took the opportunity of conduct- ing, by these setons, whatever acrid medicines might, according to the prevailing doctrines of that time, have any chance of correcting the poison. Mr. J. Bell notices, how surprising it is to see the cruelty', and perseverance, with which some modern practitioners, particularly French, draw these cords through wounded limbs; and when the roughness of Such a cord, or the acrimony of the drugs conveyed by it, produces a copious suppuration, these men are delighted with such proofs of their success. The setons have been introduced by the French sur- geons, across the thickest parts of the limbs, along the whole length of the fore-arm, and, at the same time, frequently through the wrist-joint. The setons have also been covered with stimu- lating applications. Profuse suppurations, and dreadful swellings of course ensued; still, as Mr. J. Bell has remarked, these cruelties w’ere con- tinued, till the wound healed almost in spite of the pain ; or till the coming on of very dreadful pain, great suppurations, convulsions, &e. made the surgeon discontinue the method, or even