SUPPURATION. 991 tood the same chance of dissolution into pus as efore. Blinded with the idea, that the solids ’itered into the composition of pus, the partisans f this doctrine could never see pus flowing from uv internal canal, as from the urethra, in cases !' gonorrhoea, without supposing the existence f an ulcer in the passage. Such sentiments liijht be forgiven, before it was known, that aese surfaces could, and generally did, form us, without a breach of the solids; but, the Continuance of this way of thinking now is not iere ignorance, but stupidity. The formation of ints of matter in the cavities of the chest and ab- omen, without any breach in the solids, could not ave been overlooked by the most zealous ad- ocates for the doctrine of dissolution. (Hunter.) The moderns have been still more ridiculous; >r, knowing, that it was denied, that the solids ere ever dissolved into pus, and that there was ot a single proof of it, they have been busy in roducing what to them seemed a proof. They ave been putting dead animal matter into ab- besses, and, finding, that it was either wholly, r in part dissolved, they, therefore, attributed ae loss to its being formed into pus. This, owever, was putting living and dead animal natter upon the same footing, which is a eon- radiction in Itself; for, if the result of this ex- eriment were really what they supposed it to be, he idea of living parts being dissolved into pus lust be abandoned, because living and dead nimal matter can never be considered in the ime light. (Hunter.) It might have been remarked, that even ex- aneous animal matter would lie in abscesses >r a considerable time, without being dissolved, nd, that in abscesses arising, either from iolence, or from a species of erysipelatous in- animation, there were often sloughs of the lellular membrane, which sloughs would come way, like wet tow, and, therefore, were not dis- olved into pus. (Hunter.) It might also have been noticed, that in ab- cesses in tendinous parts, as about the ankle, a endon often mortified, and sloughed away, and hat the sores would not heal till such sloughs /ere detached; but though this separation was ometimes not completed, before the expiration f months, yet the sloughs at last were thrown ff, and consequently could not be converted ito pus. Pieces of dead bone often lie soaking 1 matter for many months, without being hanged into pus; and although bones, so cir- umstanced, may lose a considerable deal of leir substance, a loss which some might impute i the dissolution of the bone into pus, yet, that 'aste can be accounted for and proved on the rinciple of absorption. The loss is always upon •at surface, upon which the continuity is broken fl, and it is a part of the process by which ex- piation of a dead piece of bone is accomplished, ’he formation of pus has been attributed to a ind of fermentation, in which both the solids nd fluids were concerned. This doctrine is asily refuted by stating what happens in internal anals, which naturally secrete mucus, but fre- uentl.v f°rm pus, without any loss of substance, r any previous fermenting process. Were we » suppose a fermentation of the solids and fluids ie immediate cause of the production of pus, hence could the solids come, which enter into the composition of discharges from the urethra ? for the whole penis could not afford matter enough to form the pus, which is discharged in a common gonorrhoea. How also could the fer- mentation of the solids ever cease? for, there is the same surface secreting its mucus, whenever the formation of pus is discontinued. It may be asked, likewise, by what power the first particle of pus in an abscess, or on a sore, is formed, before there is any particle existing, which is capable of dissolving the solids? An abscess may be stationary for months, and at last be ab- sorbed; what becomes of the fermentation all the while the collection of matter continues sta- tionary? Extravasated blood has been supposed to be capable of being converted into pus. We find, however, that blood, when extravasated, either from violence, or a rupture of a vessel, as in an- eurism, never of itself becomes pus; nor was pus ever formed in these cases, without being pre- ceded by inflammation. Both the blood and matter are also found together in the same cavity, under such circumstances. If the blood had coagulated, which it seldom does in cases of violence, it would be found still coagulated; and if it had not coagulated, the pus would be bloody. (Hunter.) The modern theory of suppuration is, that the matter is separated from the blood by the secret- ing power of the vessels of the inflamed part, which acquire a new mode of action. That pus is formed in the vessels, from which it exudes, by an action of these vessels analogous to secretion, was, so far as I know (says Pro- fessor Thomson], first distinctly suggested by Dr. Simpson of St. Andrew’s, in his “ Dis- sertationcs dc Re Medico,'’ published in the year 1722. An opinion, similar to that of Dr. Simpson’s suggested itself, about the year 1756, to De Ilaen, from the consideration of what takes place in some cases of phthisis pulmonalis. This author observes, that pus was often expectorated, for a great length of time, by patients affected with phthisis, in whom, after death, no mark of ulceration could be perceived, not even the place in which the pus had been formed. The hypo- thesis of pus being a secretion was afterwards more fully considered by Dr. Morgan of Philadelphia, in his inaugural thesis printed at Edinburgh in 1763, entitled “ Piiopoioscs, .live Tentamcn Medicum dc Puris Confectione." The belief, that pus is a secretion, or formed at least by an action of the vessels analogous to secretion, was adopted by Mr. Hunter. Indeed, the merit of the original suggestion of this hypothesis lias been ascribed to him, though improperly. Bruggman, professor of botany at Leyden, has maintained the same doctrine in an excellent thesis “ Dc Puogenia,'' published in 1785; and it is that which is now very generally taught all over Europe. (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflam- mation, p. 316—317.) With respect to sup- puration from exposed surfaces, however, it is more proper to say, that the vessels secrete a fluid, which becomes pus; for, Sir Everard Home has proved, that this fluid has not the purulent appearance, when first secreted, but acquires it, while it remains on the inflamed sur- face, and does not acquire it the less readily, when removed from that surface in a colourless