234 BRONCHOCELE. In fact, the pressure of a large bronchocele may not only greatly alllict the patient by rendering respiration difficult, hut actually cause death by sulloeation. (See Ohs. sur uu Guthc raluininciu, camprinmni la Tracliit-m lei e ; pur L. Winslow, ia Bulletin <ie CAthcntc <lt Mti,!. ^ c.) “ Some persons, as Alibert remark's, have the disease all their lives, without suffering any inconvenience from it; some experience a suffo- cating oppression of the breathing; and in others there is an impediment in the circulation, and a tendency to apoplexy, arising from the strangu- lation, which afllicts them.’J (Nasal. Nat. T. 1, l>. -40'G.) Ur. Hunter says, that the bronchocele frequently appears two, or three years before, or alter the commencement of menstruation, and that it sometimes spontaneously disappears, when this evacuation goes on in a regular manner. A. Burns affirms the same thing. On the contrary, according to Prosser, this change in the consti- tution hardly ever affects the tumor. TREATMENT OF BRONCHOCELE. That certain localities, perhaps not yet correctly understood, contribute to the origin of this dis- ease, is well proved by a fact, stated by Alibert, viz. that change of air has more effect on the complaint than medicines, as lie has known many Swiss ladies, who came to Paris with broneho- celes, in whom the tumor subsided afte they had resided some time in that city. (Nasal. Nui. T. 1, A blister, kept open, lias put a stop to the growth of the tumor; but, this method is not much followed at present, as a better plan of treatment has been discovered. The most famous mode of curing the bronchocele is by giving in- ternally burnt sponge, and occasionally a calomel purge, at the same time, employing frictions to the tumor itself. The efficacy of burnt sponge is said to be most conspicuous, when this medicine is exhibited in the form of a lozenge, composed of ten grains of this substance, ten of burnt cork, and the same quantity of pumice-stone. These powders are to be made into the proper form with a little sy- rup, and the lozenge is then to be put under the tongue and allowed to dissolve there. To the latter circumstance, much importance is attached. Other practitioners give a scruple of the burnt sponge alone, thrice every day, while some add a grain of calomel to each dose. A purge of calo- mel should be ordered about once a week, or fort- night, as long as the patient perseveres in the use of the calcined sponge; but, if mercury be com- bined with each dose of this medicine, no occa- sional purgative will be requisite. External means may very materially assist the above internal remedies. Frequently rubbing the swelling with a dry towel; bathing the part with cold water ; rubbing the tumor two or three times a day, with the liq. amnion, acet. or the camphor liniment; are the best steps of this kind which the surgeon can take. “ In the treatment of bronchocele,” says Mr. A. Burns, “ repeated topical detraction of blood lioin the tumor is highly beneficial. Electricity also has sometimes a marked cflccl; but, there is no jcinedy which 1 wouid mole strongly ad- vise, than regular and long continued f riction over the tumor. By perseverance in this plan, a bron- chocele, treated in London, was materially reduced in the course of six weeks. Its good ellecls I have likewise witnessed myself; and it is a remedy highly recommended by Girard in his “ Tmit6 ties L mpes.” It has also been much used in scrofulous tumors by Mr. Grosvenor of Oxford, and by Mr. Russel of Edinburgh.” (Surgical Aniinmii af the Head unit NtckfP. 20 k) Mr. A. Burns recommends the friction to be made with flannel, covered with hair powder, and the part to be rubbed, at least, three times a day, for twenty minutes. In two cases of bronchocele, related by Dr. , Clarke, the patients were cured, by “ the steady ! use of the compound plaster of ammoniac and 1 mercury, conjoined with the internal exhibition of the burnt sponge, and occasional purgatives.” (See Ediul). Med. and Stugicul Journal, l at. 4, ]>. 280.) We learn from Professor Odier, that in Geneva, the bronchocele is cured by burnt sponge, exhi- bited in powder, or infused in wine, and combined with purgatives to prevent the cramps of the sto- mach, which sometimes accompany the disapjiear- ance of the swelling. Muriate of barytes lias likewise been recommended. (See AJanutl de Mcdeci'-e Pratique.) A whole volume might be written on the v ari- ous remedies, and plans of treatment, of the bronchocele. The limits of this work, however, demand more conciseness, and, having detailed the most approved practice, we shall be very brief on other proposals. Mr. Y\ ilmer, credulously imputing great in- fluence to the changes of the moon, used to begin with an emetic, the day after the full moon, and to give a purge the ensuing day. The night fol- lowing, and seven nights successively, he directed the above-mentioned lozenge to be put under the tongue at bed-time, and administered every noon a bitter stomachic powder. On the eighth day, the purge was repeated, and, in the wane of the succeeding moon, the whole process, except the emetic, was renewed. (Vasts in Sur- “t rii, Ajjpcudij.) This famous Coventry plan of treatment is said to be greatly assisted, by rub- king the tumor, with an ointment, containing ' tartar emetic. Prosser succeeded with his medicines, though the patient was nearly twenty-five years old, and the swelling had existed more than twelve years. It is said, that no instance of cure has been known, after the patient was twenty-live. Prosser orders one of the following powders to be taken early in the morning, an hour or two after breakfast, and at five, or six o clock in the evening, every day, fora fortnight, or three weeks. The powder may be taken in a little syrup, or sugar and water : j Cinnab. ant. op. levigat- inilleped. ppt. et pulv. a agr. xv. Spong. calcin. M. These powders should be taken for two, or three weeks, and then left off for a week or nine days, before a repetition. At bid-time, every night, during the second course of the powdeis, some purgative pills, composed of mercury, the extract uni eoloevnthid. comp, and rhubarb, me to be administered; and in general it will be proper to purge the patient with manna, or salts, bcloie