1033 UltETHIlA. cumstance often ieatls to an errreneous supposi- tion, that the whole canal is naturally formed of the same size. The prepuce also is observed to be particularly often affected with a natural phymosis, in persons, who have strictures in the urethra. In almost all the cases which Sir E. Home has met with, there has been one stricture, about seven inches from the external orifice, whether there were any others, or not. With respect to the causes of strictures, some writers have imputed the disorder to the effects of the venereal disease, and often to the method of cure. Mr. Hunter entertained strong doubts, however, whether strictures commonly, or ever, proceeded from these causes; though he ac- knowledges, that since most men have had vene- real complaints, a refutation of the above opinion is very difficult. Mr. Hunter was led to think, that strictures did not commonly arise from ve- nereal causes, from reflecting that strictures are common to most passages in the human body. They often take place in the oesophagus; the intestines, particularly the rectum; the anus; the prepuce, so as to produce phymosis; and in the lachrymal duct, so as to occasion a fistula lachrymalis. Strictures sometimes take place, when there have been no previous venereal com- plaints. Mr. Hunter mentions his having seen an instance of this kind in a young man, nineteen years of age, who had had the complaint for eight years, and which therefore began, when he was only eleven years old. He was of a weak, scrophulous habit. Mr. Hunter had also seen a stricture in a boy only four years old, and a fistula in perinaeo in consequence of it. Stric- tures happen as frequently in persons, who have had gonorrhoea in a slight degree, as in others, who have had it in a severe form. It is not an uncommon belief, that strictures arise from the use of astringent injections in the treatment of the gonorrhoea. Sir Everard Home is of this sentiment, and so is Mr. Wilson. (On the Male Genital and Urinary Organs, p. 370.) The latter gentleman, however, men- tions some circumstances, calculated to raise doubts on this point, especially the fact, that while injections rarely enter far into the urethra, the most common seat of a stricture is where the membranous part of the canal joins the bulb. Mr. Hunter himself deemed the opinion founded on prejudice, and states, that he had seen as many strictures after gonorrhoea, which had been cured without injections, as after cases which had been treated with these latter applica- tions. He rejected also the old doctrine, that stric- tures are a consequence of ulcers in the urethra; for, ulcers hardly ever occur in this passage, ex- cept when there are strictures; and it is now generally admitted, that, in gonorrhoea, there are no sores in the urethra. Strictures are sometimes produced by external violence, though the passage would appear to be capable of fre- quently bearing considerable wounds and other injuries, without this consequence. Thus, stric- tures are not common from lithotomy, and in a nio ern work, we read the case of a serious guns lot wound of the urethra, where no stricture ensued. (Sec Annuairc Med. Chir. dcs Ilopi- laux de Paris, 4to. 1819.) TREATMENT OF STRICTURES, WITH COMMON' BOUGIES, ON THE PRINCIPLE OF DILATATION. Mr. Hunter remarks, that the cure of stric- tures may be accomplished, either by a dilatation of the contracted part, or a destruction of it by ulceration, or escharotics. To these methods are to be added, first the plan of forcing a pass- age through the stricture with a conical sound, as practised by the French surgeons, when they cannot otherwise pass the stricture, and the symptoms are urgent. (See J. Cross, Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, 8t;o. Land. 1815, p. Ill; and First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vol. 2, ed. 4;) and secondly, the method of cutting down to obliterated portions of the urethra, and attempting to cure the ob- struction by the removal of the diseased parts, tracing the continuation of the passage, and try- ing to heal the wound over a catheter. Both these practices are attended with such difficulties and dangers, as should make every prudent sur- geon very reluctant to adopt them, except under very urgent circumstances, in which every milder method fails. The dilatation is accom- plished by means of bougies or catheters; but, Mr. Hunter considered, that a cure, thus effect- ed, was seldom or never more than temporary. The removal of the stricture by ulceration, may also be effected with bougies. Its destruction with caustic used formerly to be executed through a cannula, contrived for the purpose; but, is now performed by means of caustic, or armed bougies. The cure by dilatation is principally mechani- cal, when effected by bougies, the powers of which are generally those of a wedge. However, Mr. Hunter conceived, that their ultimate effect was not always so simple as that of a wedge upon inanimate matter; for, pressure makes living parts either adapt themselves to their new po- sition, or else recede by ulceration. Bougies, of course, either dilate strictures, or make them ulcerate. The disease has generally made considerable progress, before surgical assistance is required, and the stricture may be so advanced, that a small bougie cannot be made to pass, without a great deal of trouble. If the end of a small bougie, let it he ever so small, can be introduced through the stricture, the cure is then in our power. However, a small bougie frequently cannot pass in the first instance, and even not after repeated trials. Often when the stricture is very considerable, a great deal of trouble is given by occasional spasms, which either resist the introduction of a bougie altogether, or only allow a very small one to pass. At other periods, however, a larger one may be introduced. In these circumstances Mr. Hunter mentions, that lie was' sometimes able to make the point of the bougie enter, by rubbing the outside of the perinaeum with the finger of one hand, while he pushed the bougie on with the other. The same eminent prac- titioner often succeeded by letting the bougie re- main a little while close to the stricture, and then pushing it on- Sometimes the spasm may also be taken oil’ by dipping the glans penis in cold water.