A DICTIONARY OF PRACTICAL SURGERY. ABD ABD ABAPTISTON, or Abaptista (from d, priv. and Scinrfuj, immergo, to sink under). Galen, Fabricius ab Aquapendente, and especially Scultetus, in bis Armamenturiuvi Chirurgicum, so denominate the crown of the trepan, because this part of the instrument formerly had a conical shape, which kept it from penetrating the cranium too rapidly, so as to plunge the teeth in the dura mater and brain. It would be quite superfluous here to inquire, whether there was any ground for this apprehension in the ruder periods of the surgical art, when the skilful management of the trepan might not be so well understood as at the present day. While it is admitted by modern surgeons, that mischief may be done by letting the saw penetrate too deeply, they do not find it necessary, or advisable, to obviate the possibility of such an accident, by using a conical trepan, with which it would be difficult to make any per- foration at all; but guard against the danger by observing particular rules and cautions laid down in another part of this book. (See Trephine.) It is remarked by Mr. S. Sharp, that the great labour of working so slowly and difficultly (with a conical saw) is not only very inconvenient to an operator, but by no means serviceable to the operation ; for, notwithstanding the saw be cy- lindrical, and work without any other impediment- than what lies before the teeth, yet, even with this advantage, the operation goes on so gradu- ally, that, in all his experience, he never found the least danger of suddenly passing through to the brain, when care was taken not to lean too hard on the instrument at the period of the bone being almost sawn through. (Optralions of Surgery, p. 151, E(l. 3; also I’Encydoj edie Me- thodique, Turtle Chir. art. Abaptiston.) ABDOMEN. The Bei.ly. The term is said to be derived from the Latin verb ubdo, to hide, because many of the chief viscera of the body are here concealed. VV lien a surgeon speaks of the cavity of the abdomen, he confines his meaning to the space, which is included within the bag of the perito- neum. Hence, neither the kidneys, nor the pelvic dom^3’ 3re’ Str,Ctly sPea't*ng> parts of the ab- • ,An,^m,sls ,mve distinguished this large mto different regions, the terms allotted to are so very frequent in the language of si books, that some account of them in thii nonary seems indispensable. The middle of the upper part of the abdomen, from the ensiform cartilage as low down as a line drawn directly across the greatest convexity of the cartilages of the ribs, is called the qiigastric region. The spaces at the sides of the epigastric region are termed, the right and left hypochondria, or hypochondriac regions. • The umbilical region extends from the navel upwards to the line, forming the lower boundary of the epigastric region, and downwards to a line drawn across from one anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the other. The middle space, below the last line, down to the os pubis, is named the hypogastric region. The parts of the abdomen, situated on the out- side of the umbilical region to the right and left,' or externally with respect to two perpendicular lines drawn from the greatest convexities of the cartilages of the seventh true ribs, are named the ilia, or flanks. On eacli side of the hypogastric region is situated the inguinal region, or groin. The whole of the back part of the abdomen has only one technical appellation, viz. the Lumbar region, or loins. , The abdomen is a part of the body claiming the particular attention of every practical surgeon ; for, it is the frequent situation of several of the most important surgical diseases. It is also very much exposed to wounds, and various operations on different parts of it are often indispensable. One of the most common afflictions, to which mankind are subject, is that in which some of the bowels protrude, pushing out before them a por- tion of the peritoneum. This disease is called hernia, and ought to be well understood by every practitioner, who, however, can never acquire the necessary knowledge, without being perfectly and minutely acquainted with the anatomy of the ab- domen. In dropsical cases, it is frequently proper to tap the abdomen, and this operation, named paracentesis, simple as it may seem, requires more consideration, and attention to anatomy, than surgeons often bestow on the subject. The ab- domen is also exceedingly liable to be wounded. See Hernia, Paracentesis, and Wounds. Abdomen, Abscesses of the. These may take place either within the cavity of the belly, or at some point of its circumference, and may be either of an acute, or chronic nature. Women are generally considered more liable, than men, to abscesses in and about the abdomen : the ab- B