604 HERNIA. should take cave to suspend the loaded scrotum, and to keep it out of the way of all harm from pressure, bruise, &c. When the tumor is very large, a soft quilted bolster should be worn at the bottom of the suspensory to prevent excoria- tion, and the scrotum should be frequently washed tor the same reason ; a loss of skin in this part, and in such circumstances, being some- times ot the utmost importance. They ought also to be particularly attentive to the office of the intestinal canal, to see that they do not by any irregularity of diet disorder it, and keep themselves from being costive.” Mr. Pott ob- serves, however, that the quiet, inoffensive state of this kind of hernia is by no means to be de- pended upon; many things may happen to it, by which it may be so altered, as to become ha- zardous, and even fatal: an inflammation of that part of the gut which is down, any obstruction to the passage of the aliment or feces through it, a stricture made by the abdominal tendon, either on what has been long down, or on a new por- tion which may at any time be added to it, are always capable of so altering the state of the case, as to put the life of the patient into danger. “ Indeed the hazard arising from a stricture made on a piece of intestine contained in the sac of an old irreducible hernia, is in one respect greater, than that attending one that has been found at times reducible ; since from the nature of the case it will hardly admit of any attempt toward relief, but the operation, which in these circumstances must necessarily be accompanied with additional difficulty. “ Among the ruptures, which have been thought not reducible, and treated as such, there have been some which, upon more judicious and more patient attempts, have been found capable of reduction. “ When this is suspected to be the case, the proper method is by absolute rest, in a supine posture, for a considerable length of time, by great abstinence, and the use of evacuants, so as to lessen the size of the parts in the hernial sac, and render them capable of passing back again into the belly.” (Pott on Ruptures.) Fabricius Hildanus gives an account of a man, who was radically cured of a rupture, of twenty years’ date, by six months’ confinement to bed. (Cent. 5, Obs. 54.) Le Dran and Arnaud relate instances of mon- strous bubonoceles, which disappeared entirely, af- ter the patients had been long confined to bed, and rendered much emaciated, by tedious illnesses. Some of the moderns have imitated this opera- tion of nature, and by frequent bleedings, and repeated purges, have sometimes so far reduced the size of the hernia, that it has been returned into the abdomen. Mr. Hey has several times succeeded in this way. (P. 219.) But, the practice cannot prove successful, when the vis- cera adhere to the sac, or to the peritoneum, just within the abdomen. The greatest objec- tion to this method of cure, is the want of an absolute criterion for distinguishing, when the parts do, or do not adhere to the hernial sac, and, in advanced years, though one were sure, that the viscera were free from the sac, the pos- sibility of hurting the body by the necessary evacuations, is also another objection. (Sharp s Critical Enquiry, p. 15.) Were the plan to be thought worthy of trial, keeping up a constant pressure on the tumor, by means of a suspensory bandage, made to lace in front, would be proper for promoting the ab- sorption of the thickened parts in the hernial sac. Mr. A. Cooper has reduced such hernise, after applying ice to them, the good effects of which lie imputes to its producing a contraction of the scrotum, and thus a strong and permanent compression of the tumor. Mr. Earle lately in- formed me of a method of keeping up a general pressure on the swelling, by means of a bladder containing quicksilver, the quantity of which can be regulated, acccording to circumstances. Whenever any attempts of this kind succeed, a truss should be immediately put on, and worn constantly without remission. However there are instances on record, where the capacity of the abdomen had become so adapted to the diminished quantity of the viscera, that when the contents of the hernia were re- duced, serious complaints arose from their intro- duction into the belly. Sehmucker met with several such cases, in which he was obliged to lake off the truss again. Petit has knosvn the reduction of a hernia of this kind prove fatal, the parts not descending again when the truss was removed, the nausea and vomiting con- tinuing, and peritonitis taking place. (Chi- rnrgischc Wahrnehmungen, Vol. 2, p. 243. Trait6 dcs Maladies Chir., T. 2, p. 392.) Mr. Pott remarks, that “ an omental rupture, which has been so long in the scrotum as to have become irreducible, is very seldom attended with any bad symptoms, considered abstractedly; but, it is constantly capable of being the occasion of an intestinal hernia, and all its consequences; neither is that all, for the omentum, either so altered in form and texture, or so connected as to be incapable of reduction, may by accident inflame, and either become gangrenous, or sup- purate, and the occasion of a great deal of trou- ble.” In a few instances, epiploeeles produce very bad symptoms indeed, cases of which are to be found in Garengeot, Dionis, £cc. Sometimes, in old cases of entero-epiplocele, the intestine is reducible, but the omentum is not, in which case some writers advise keeping up the piece of bowel with a truss, the pad of which must be so contrived as not to press on the omentum.. Mr. Pott, however, considers this method not often practicable, and, should such a truss be used, he recommends great cau- tion in its construction and application, lest a small piece of gut slip down, and, being pressed on by the truss, produce fatal mischief. “ Irreducible herniae must of course be ex- posed to all the consequences of external injury and violence; hence, various cases are recorded, in which the bowels have been burst by blows, falls, &c.” (Larcrcncc on Ruptures, p. 110, Edit. 3.) For examples of such accidents, Mr. Law- rence refers to A. Cooper on Hernia, Part 2, Pref. p. 2, and to Travers's Euq. into the Process of Nature, $r. p. 37. A case is also quoted from Scarpa, p. 310, where a violent ex- ertion caused a sudden return of a hernia, which had been long regarded as cured. The viscera lay in the tunica vaginalis, which was burst to the extent of an inch.