1201 WOUNDS. to every circumstance attendant on these cases. :In several instances, Valentin remarked, that an ecchymosis occurred, at the angle of the false ribs, and spread towards the loins. The ecchy- mosis is described as being of a clear purple colour, like the spots, which sometimes form on the abdomen, a little while after death. In a case, in which most of the symptoms of extravasation ■were combined with the above sort of ecchymosis, Valentin advised a counter-opening to be made. The advice was overruled, and the patient soon afterwards died: more than six pints of blood, were found extravasated in the thorax. Sabatier remarks, that we cannot too highly applaud the zeal of those practitioners, who en- deavour to dispel the doubts, which still prevail in several parts of surgery. At the same time, be thinks, that all, who take interest in the im- provement of this science, should endeavour to ■^ascertain the truth of any new observations, j|v.which are offered. Hence, he deems it proper to relate a case, which was communicated to him ay M Saucerotte (the father), an eminent mili- tary surgeon, and which shews, that the ecchy- mosis, observed by Valentin, is, at least, not invariably attendant on extravasations of blood in the chest. A light-horseman, who had received a thrust with a sabre in the right side of the thorax, above the tendon of the pectoralis major, appeared t to be going on very well for the first four days after the accident. On the fifth, he com- ; plained of difficulty of breathing, uneasiness, and :an inability of lying on the left side, without ggravating his complaints. He complained of ii great deal of pain in the region of the liver, . md at the top of the shoulder. His pulse was s rmall and contracted, and rather hard than weak. The right side of the chest seemed larger, than t the left. On the eight and ninth day, the sym- ; ptoms became more urgent, and the patient found no ease, except in leaning on his right side, and vmpporting himself on a chair, placed across his laed. This assemblage of symptoms indicated an extravasation of blood in the right cavity of • the thorax ; but, as the ecchymosis, which Va- ; lentin has described, was not apparent, doubts were entertained about the real nature of the ;ase. When a counter-opening was made on the lead body, a pint of putrid blood flowed out. When the surgeon feels assured, that an ex- travasation of blood in the thorax has really i occurred, and the symptoms are very urgent, the discharge of the confined fluid appears to pro- rmise benefit. However, before the operation is done, the revived state of the pulse, the return ■ jf warmth in the extremities, and the cessation i of great faintness, ought to denote, that the i hemorrhage no longer continues from the ves- sels ; for, if this be not the case, a fresh quantity • jf blood must soon be extravasated again, and ' the patient die exhausted. Authors mention five methods of discharging blood from the thorax ; viz. 1st. By placing the ; patient in a posture, which favours the escape of !the blood; 2d!y. By introducing a syringe lor t the purpose of sucking it out, or a mere can- nula, through which it is to flow; iidly. By enlarging the wound ; 4thly. By employing in- jections ; 5tbly. By making an opening in a depending part of the thorax. 1. Success cannot he expected from merely placing the patient in a posture, which is favour- able to the escape of the extravasated blood, ex- cept when the wound is situated at the inferior part of the chest, and is large and direct in its course. Pare successfully adopted this method in the case of a soldier, wiio was stabbed in three places with a sword, one of the wounds, which entered the chest, being situated under the right nipple. The man was first dressed by a surgeon, who made several sutures. The patient was soon afterwards attacked with considerable difficulty of breathing, fever, coughing, spitting of blood, and acute pain in the side. Pare, who was consulted the next day, suspected, that an extravasation had happened : consequently, he cut out the sutures, and placed the patient in a position, in which his feet were much more raised, than the head. Pare also recommended him to hold his breath, and then introduced his finger into the wound, in order to take away some clots of blood, which appeared at its orifice. By these steps, the dis- charge of seven, or eight, ounces of fetid, coagu- lated blood was effected. 2. The idea of drawing out of the thorax ex- travasated blood with a syringe, is rather ancient. The pipes of all syringes, for this purpose, should have blunt ends, lest they injure the lungs. Mere tubes, containing a stilet, have also frequently been employed. Scultetus relates a case, in which an instrument of the latter sort was suc- cessfully employed. No syringe, nor any suction with the mouth, was requisite; it was found ne- cessary merely to introduce the tube, and then withdraw the stilet. Lamotte used only a simple cannula, which he introduced into the centre of the extravasa- tion. Then having placed the patient, in what he conceived to be the most favourable posture, and requested him to bold his breath, he drew off the collection of fluid. The cases numbered 216', 217, 218, shew the success, which attended this method. Although it might also have answered very well in case 219, Lamotte saw, that the high situation of the wound would not have allowed all the blood to be discharged, and, therefore, lie made a counter-opening. Thus the thorax Aas completely emptied, and a recovery ensued. When a cannula is employed, authors recom- mend it to be introduced every day, till the bad symptoms cease, and no more fluid escapes through the cavity of the instrument. After having given vent to blood, it allows a bloody serous fluid to escape, and at a later period pus, whic h becomes of a thicker and thicker con- sistence, the nearer the patient is to a recovery. 3. The cases, in which a wound, complicated with an extravasation in the chest, should be dilated, are those, in which the situation of the opening is favourable to the escape of the blood. The operation is performed with a curved bis- toury, and a director. The integuments, and external muscles, are to be divided in u per- pendicular direction, and the intercostal muscles in a fine parallel to the ribs. Cure is also to be taken, not to cut too near the lower edge of the upper rib, lest the intercostal artery be wounded. Dionis practised such an operation on a soldier, who was wounded at Befort, in 1703, with a sword below the right nipple, whereby a direct opening was made into the thorax. When the extravasated fluid had been let out, Dionis 4 II