(ESOPHAGUS. 8GI a But ie rin_ — ml the most distressing symptoms When the substances are not of a very hurttnl ind and cannot be extracted, they must be ushed down into the stomach with a large JU„ie, or a whalebone probang, fifteen or six- ,e„° inches long, and, on the end of which ieee of fine sponge is securely fastened, ach practice is not advisable, when the foreign Hies have a sharp, pointed form, so as to be kelv to prove a source of at least equal danger nd suffering, if placed in contact with the inner urface of the stomach. Experience proves, that ard, angular substances, and pointed bodies, ke nails, pins, needles, &c. which surgeons ave not ventured, or not been able, to force own into the stomach, have often made their •ay, after a time, to the surface of the body, natient mnv put him to great pain, and A foreign body, not large enough to cause ; * !iolt.u't inflammation of the passage, danger of suffocation by pressure on the trachea, may yet bring on fatal symptoms, as is ex- emplified in a case, which fell under the notice CL j j uiiei *■ * 7 . .,-here an abscess has formed, out of which they ave been discharged. When very hard, irritating bodies have either oassed of themselves, or been pushed with a pro- sing into the stomach, their ill effects should >e counteracted, and their passage through the jowels promoted, with mucilaginous draughts, :ontaining the oleum amvgdalarum, or oleum •icini. When the substances, lodged in the oeso- ihagus, can neither be extracted, nor pushed lown into the stomach, if respiration be not langerously obstructed, and liquids can yet be wallowed, the wisest plan is to avoid irritating he passage with the further use of instruments, rad leave the case to nature, that is to say, as ar as manual interference is concerned; for, deeding, and mucilaginous oily draughts, may ie in some cases useful. But, when the lodg- ment of a foreign body in the oesophagus dan- gerously obstructs respiration, and the sub- >tance itself cannot be felt externally, the patient would perish, if some means of facilitating the breathing were not immediately adopted; and, under these circumstances, perhaps, the most prudent plan would be to make an opening in the trachea. (See Bronchotomy.) The subse- quent treatment, with reference to the foreign body itself, might be determined by the circum- stances of the case. In this part of surgery, one fact deserves to be particularly remembered, which is, that after a sharp, hard substance has been either ejected, or propelled into the stomach by nature, or art, the same painful sensations in the throat fre- quently continue a certain time afterwards, which were experienced while the foreign body was actually lodged in the passage. These sensa- tions, however, are only owing to the manner, in which the oesophagus has been irritated, and, consequently, would be seriously aggravated by the further unnecessary introduction of probangs, and other instruments. There may be cases, in which the patient wmuld lose his life by suffocation, if a foreign body of considerable size were not taken out of the oeso- phagus, so as to remove the compression of the trachea. Here, if it could neither be extracted, nor pushed into the stomach by common means, and its situation were indicated by any hardness, or prominence in the neck, an operation would he necessary for its removal. (See (Ksopha ffotomy.) r a case, which fell under of Guattani. As a man was throwing up a boiled chesnut in the air, and catching it in his mouth, it passed down his throat, and he was immediately seized with a difficulty of swallowing, and sent to the hospital. However, as he breathed and spoke with facility, and had vomited since the accident, which happened when he was tipsy, the story of his having swallowed the chesnut was disbelieved. His symptoms grew worse, and he died on the 19th day. Guattani made an incision in the left side of the neck, below the larynx and thyroid gland, which was considerably swelled, and soon came to a large abscess, formed around the por- tion of the oesophagus, enclosing the chesnut. When the extraneous body is sharp and pointed, so as to stick in the mucous membrane of the passage, and it cannot be removed, nature will sometimes expel it herself, without any dangerous symptoms being the consequence. The foreign body is gradually loosened by ulceration, and is then either ejected by vomiting, or descends into the stomach, whence it is voided either through the bowels with the fasces, or, as is more com- mon, by making its way through some part of the alimentary canal, and approaching the sur- face of the body, where an abscess forms, out of which it is discharged. In other instances, foreign bodies, like pins and needles, which can- not be removed, pierce the cesophagus itself, gradually pass completely out of this canal, and afterwards travel to remote parts of the body, without exciting much inconvenience, until, per- haps, at the end of some years, they come near the surface of the body, in a very remote situa- tion from the throat; and an abscess is produced, in which they are unexpectedly found. However, this transport of sharp-pointed substances from one part of the body to another, which is effected by a process, in which the absorbents have a principal share in the work, is not conducted in every instance with so little disturbance, and, when foreign bodies of this description come into contact with particular organs, symptoms of a dangerous and fatal kind may be excited. The great art of passing any instrument down the oesophagus, for surgical purposes, consists in putting its extremity at once directly against the posterior part of the pharynx, and keeping it closely against the vertebrae so as to avoid touch- ing the epiglottis. The knowledge of this cir- cumstance will be found extremely useful in passing probangs and bougies. When elastic gum-catheters are intended to be left in the passage, they are introduced down the pharynx from one of the nostrils, and, being secured, they serve for the conveyance of liquid food and medicines into the stomach with great advantage, in many cases, either where the patient cannot swallow at all, or where the disturbance of swallowing would be attended with considerable harm. When, however, the plan is not to leave the instruments introduced, as Boyer observes, they may be passed through the mouth. (ESOPHAGUS, Strictures, and other Dis- eases of the. Properly speaking, a difficulty, or impossibility, of swallowing should not be re- garded ns a disease itself; but only as a symptom