884 OPHTHALMY. neral causes, existing in the atmosphere. The principal cause, which gives force and opportunity to the action of contagion, is the crowding in- dividuals together into too limited spaces. The same circumstance, Dr. Vetch has seen give a predisposition to diseases of an epidemic, but not a contagious nature; and hence he infers, that it may produce the same predisposition to diseases, which are both contagious and atmospheric. “ The appearance of ophthalmia among the crews of ships and in barracks was often met with long before the late destructive and virulent dis- ease (presently to be described.) In the army, such an ophthalmia has extended to whole regiments, without any appearance of the disease among the inhabitants of the neighbourhood ; and while the free intercourse, which subsists among the men, ns to washing in the same water, using the same towels, and sleeping more than one in a bed, readily accounts for the rapid extension of the disease in the same corps, yet the excessive crowding together of men will often of itself engender inflammation of the conjunctiva.” (Vetch on Diseases of the Eyes, p. 171.) I believe, with respect to the causes of all purulent ophthalmies, our present knowledge will permit us to venture no further than the tenor of the preceding observations, which is, that they ori- ginate epidemically, but probably multiply both in this manner, and by the infectious matter of the disease being inadvertently applied in various •ways to the eyelids of other persons. This species of inflammation of the eyelids is rarely met with by the surgeon in its first stage, because only very timorous patients then seek medical advice, and most individuals, who feel in other respects well, relieve themselves by washing the eyes with cold water, and applying cold poultices, made of bread crurn softened in water. Besides, when the disease is not very severe, it frequently subsides of itself, as in a favourable constitution, a better air is sometimes capable of restoring the healthy state of the eye. If, however, the dis- ease at its very commencement should be violent, or attack an individual of very weak habit, Beer states, that it may immediately affect, not only the Meibomian glands, but the perichondrium of the cartilage of the eyelid, and produce an in- curable entropium, which is also sure of taking place when the case is neglected, and followed by deeply extending ulcerative mischief. When the complaint is strictly idiopathic, it never brings on any general indisposition, except, by improper treatment, it should happen to be converted into a violent inflammation of the whole eyelid, or what Beer terms a complete blcpltar ophthalmitis ; which, lie says, only happens in weak subjects, and women and children, whose skin is in a very irritable state, or when a person of apparently good constitution remains under the influence of circumstances, which tend to augment the in- flammation, as for instance, exposed to the air of a stable, privy, &c. in which event, Beer describes the inflammation of the eyelids as being quite of a peculiar description. As for the prognosis in the second stage, Beer dbserves, that, if the excoriations at the suppura- tive period should spread all over the edges of the eyelids, and compel the patient to keep his eye incessantly shut, a partial adhesion of the eyelids to each other (anchyloblcpharon) may be the result. Also, when at either of the periodkj of the secretion of mucus, or at that of suj]; puration, the patient is content with merell softening with warm water the thick matter glu* ing the eyelids together, so as just to be able tji open his eye; and does not completely free till eyelashes from the crusts, clusters of the hail will project inwards, (see Trichiasis) whereby ti secondary inflammation of the conjunctiva of tin eyeball will be excited, which, Beer says, slioulB be carefully discriminated from a mere extension of the glandular inflammation of the eyelid. Sutll a trichiasis, he observes, may easily become iril curable, when the edge of the eyelid is serious]!] injured by the depth of the excoriations. Bull if the suppurative process be restricted chiefly <j| the canthus, especially the outer one, (which cas| according to Beer, is not unfrequent in old, dll bilitated subjects, of a relaxed constitution) ar if the excoriations should deeply penetrate tl commissure of the eyelids, this may be con pletely destroyed, and the lower eyelid evertedjj As the state of the atmosphere, uncleanlines| crowded and close places, &c. are considered ll Beer to be the principal causes of the glandullj inflammation of the eyelids, or simple purulem ophthalmy, one of the most important indicif tions, in the first stage of the disorder, seems ti him to be the removal of these hurtful circunB stances. And, he declares, that, if immediajj attention be not paid to such indication, it wfl be quite impossible to prevent a dangerous idj crease of the disorder. A cool fresh air, an bathing the eye with cold water, or a weal lotion of vinegar and water, Beer represents X be means, usually adequate to stifle this ir|l flammation in its birth. In the second stages he says, the indication is entirely different. But, also in the beginning of this stage, ar$ even at its second period, namely that of suA puration taking place, the disorder, according to Beer, seems for a short time to be benefits by the employment of cold water, but the core sequences are rendered by such treatment a grei deal worse; for afresh, much more extensive, it! flammation of the same kind again takes plac* At the first period of the second stage, via while the secretion is a pure mucous and sd baceous matter, Beer says, that it is absoluteljf necessary’ to employ’ such external means, as ail] calculated to promote the action of the veins an] absorbents. For this purpose, he recommend the following collyrium: fg. Aq. rosa? I Hydrarg. oxvmur. gr. j. vel. gr. dimidium. Muci , sent, cydon. jjj- Tinct. opii vinos. £)j. Misttl This eyewater is to be used lukewarm from foil. to six times a day’, and the eye afterwards care ■ fully’ and completely' dried. No ey’e, in thi i state, he says, will bear more than the proportioi! of one gr. of the oxyunuriate of quicksilver, air only seldom more than half a grain. But, as soon as the suppurative period coni; mences, attended with excoriations, gentle astrin gents, like the liquor plumbi subacetatis, in solution of the lapis divinus (see LachryiM \ Organs) should be added to the above lotion 1 for which they may at length be entirely sub stituted. And, when the suppurative period ha terminated, but a morbid secretion of mucus yc obstinately continues, and threatens to becom1 | habitual, recourse should be had, without tb