CANCER* 269 ised action. The skin, the cellular substance, e muscles, anil the periosteum, all become lecled, if they are in the vicinity of cancer, his very striking circumstance distinguishes ireinoma, says Mr. Abernethy, from several her diseases. In what this author calls medullar 1/ rconw, the disease is propagated along the ab- rbing system; but the parts immediately in ,utact with the enlarged glands do not assume ■ same diseased actions. Neither in the tuber- !at at species does the ulceration spread along skin, but destroys that part only which covers e diseased glands. According to Mr. Aber- thv, a disposition to cancer existing in the rrounding parts, before the actual occurrence the diseased action, was a circumstance noticed • Mr. Hunter. Hence arose the following rule practice: That a surgeon ought not to be coll- ated with removing merely the indurated, or tually diseased part, but that he should also lake .■an some portion of the surrounding substance, which a diseased disposition may probably have ■en excited. In consequence of this communica- :>ii of disease to the contiguous parts, the skin on becomes indurated, and attached to a car- lomatous tumor, which, in like manner, is fixed the muscles, or other part, over which it was rmed. As a carcinomatous tumor increases, it gene- ..lv, though not constantly, becomes unequal on its surface, so that this inequality has been isidered as characteristic of the disease. A i iciuating pain is common ; but it is not ex- r..fenced in every case, without exception. It ilso a symptom, attending other tumors, which ■ unlike carcinoma in structure, and it cannot, ■refore, be deemed an infallible criterion of the .ure of the disease. (Abernethy’s Surgical orks, Vol. 2, p. 69, &\c.) \ A hard and painful glandular swelling, having ;isposiiion to become cancer, says Richter, is : common, but, inadequate and erroneous de- ition of scirrhus. The disease is not regularly ended with swelling; sometimes scirrhous parts •finish in size, and shrink. Hardness is not a .racteristic property; for, many tumors, which not scirrhous, are exceedingly indurated. The ease is not always situated in the gland : it quently attacks structures, which cannot be ed glandular; and hard glandular swellings often seen, which do not partake of scirrhus. e disposition to cancer cannot be enumerated ong the marks of scirrhus, since it is not dis- erable, till carcinoma has actually commenced, termination in open cancer, is not an in- iable occurrence; and other tumors become cerous, to which no one would apply the 11 scirrhus. (Anfangsgr. der Wumturzn. B. • icientific surgeons ought undoubtedly to have ! .finite meaning, when they employ the term ‘bus; the word is generally used most vaguely; , perhaps, influenced by its etymology, sur- ns call an immense number of various morbid irations scirrhous, which are not at all of a Jgnant, or dangerous character. have always considered scirrhus, as a dis-. •’d hardness, in which there is a propensity to cerous ulceration, and a greater backwardness eeede, than exists in any other kind of dis- 'd hardness, although the skin may occasionally not break during life, and a few scirrhous indura- tions may have been lessened. Though Richter states, that this disposition cannot be discovered, till carcinoma has actually taken place; though Mr. J. Burns and Sir E. Home confirm, that other indurations and tumors may terminate in cancer; though Mr. Abernethy shews, that sarcomatous, and encysted tumors may end in most malignant diseases, arid such as from their severity merit the name of cancer; (Chir. TFcrA-s, p. S3.) yet, it is now well as- certained, that, in all these instances, the changes, which precede cancerous ulceration, bear no resemblance to those of a true malignant scir- rhus. The puckering of the skin, the dull leaden colour of the integuments, the knotted and un- even feel of the disease, the occasional darting pains in the part, its fixed attachment to the skin above, and muscles beneath, form so .striking an assemblage of symptoms, that, when they are all present, there cannot be the smallest doubt, that the tumor is a scirrhus, and that the disease is about to acquire, if it have not already acquired, the power of contaminating the surrounding parts, and the lymphatic glands, to which the absorbents of the diseased part tend. As Sir Everard Home has observed, the truly scirrhous tumor, which is known to be capable of changing into the true open cancer, when allowed to increase in size is known to be hard, heavy, and connected with the gland of the breast; and, when moved, the whole gland moves along with it. The structure of a scirrhous tumor in the breast, is different in the various stages of the disease; and a description of the appearances, exhibited in the three principal ones, may give a tolerable idea of what the changes are, which itgbes through, pre- vious to its breaking, or becoming, what is termed, an open cancer. "When a section is made of such a tumor, in an early stage, provided the structure can be seen to advantage, it puts on the following appearance: the centre is more compact, harder to the feel, and has a more uniform texture, than the rest of the tumor; and is nearly of the consistence of carti- lage. This middle part does not exceed the size of a silver penny; and, from this, in every di- rection, like rays, are seen ligamentous bands, of a' white colour, and very narrow, looking, in the section, like so many extremely irregular lines, passing to the circumference of the tumor, which is blended with the substance of the sur- rounding gland. In the interstices, between these bands, the substance is different, and becomes less compact towards the outer edge. On a more minute examination, transverse ligament- ous bands, of a fainter appearance, form a kind of net-work, in the meshes of which the new- formed substance is inclosed. This structure accords with what Dr. Baillie describes to be the case, in cancerous diseases of the stomach and uterus. In a more advanced stage of the tumor, the whole of the diseased part has a more uniform structure ; no central point can be distinguished; the external edge is more defined, and distinct frdm the surrounding gland; and the ligament- ous bands, in different directions, are very ap- parent. but do not follow any course, that can be traced.