1120 URINE, RE1 'ENTION OF. increases the curvature, which this canal de- scribes under the symphysis of the pubes, against which it is forcibly applied. In a prolapsus, or inversion, of the womb, vagina, and rectum, the back part of the blad- der, instead of being drawn upward and forward, is pulled downward and backward, and the cur- vature of the urethra is totally altered. Below the pubes, the bladder forms a convexity, and not a large concavity, as in the instance of a re- troversion of the womb. This position of the parts should always be recollected in passing the catheter, as it shews what curvature and direction should be given to the instrument, in order to facilitate its introduction. These retentions of urine are not often fol- lowed by any very bad consequences. It is generally sufficient to rectify the wrong position of the bladder, and the commencement of the urethra, by the reduction of the displaced viscera, and a cure is then a matter of course, unless the excessive distention should have induced consi- derable weakness of the bladder, in which event, recourse must be had to the means previously recommended for this state of the organ. The reduction of the viscera generally forms the first indication, and the manner of accomplishing it is described under the head of Uterus. When the reduction is not immediately practicable, or when it fails to remove at once the retention of urine, the catheter is to be used. Frequently, when the urine has been drawn off, the reduction be- comes more easy; but, sometimes, the altered direction of the urethra renders the introduction of the catheter difficult; nor will the instrument pass, unless it be accommodated to the preter- natural state of that canal. Thus, in the retro- version of the uterus, a catheter, very much curved, answers better than one nearly straight, like that commonly used for females. A curved catheter, says Desault, also answers in cases of prolapsus uteri, &c.; but, with this difference, that, in a retroversion, the concavity of the instrument must be turned towards the pubes, but, in the prolapsus, towards the anus. Sometimes, the catheter will not pass unless it be rotated, as it were, and sometimes, when a silver catheter cannot in any manner be intro- duced, an elastic one will readily enter. Were every effort to reduce the viscera, and pass a catheter unavailing, and the hazard of the bladder giving way urgent, the surgeon would be called upon to let out the urine with a trocar. (See Bladder, Puncture of.) 7. Retention of Urine from the pressure of the Uterus, or Vagina, on the Neck of the Bladder. Besides the distention of the uterus and vagina in pregnancy and parturition (which cases I mean to pass over as belonging more pro- perly to midwifery), there are other conditions of these organs, which may give rise to a re- tention of urine. Thus it sometimes arises from the presence of various kinds of tumors, or collections of blood, or other fluid in the uterus, or ovary ; or the distention of the vagina with the menses, pessaries, &c. In such cases, the retention of ur,ne being only symptomatic, the prognosis must depend upon because its inconvenience may be obviated bv means of the catheter. But when the cause of the retention of urine is easily removed, and the tone of the bladder is not impaired, even the ca- theter is not always necessary, as when the com- plaint is induced by a pessary, or collection of blood in the vagina. In other examples, in which the cause of the difficulty of making water cannot be immediately obviated, as in cases of tumors, the catheter must be employed. In scirrhous and cancerous diseases of the uterus, also, this instrument is the only means of re- lieving the retention of urine, as nature and art can do little for the removal of the cause. It ought to be known, however, that as these last diseases increase, an incontinence often succeeds to a retention of urine, in consequence of ulcera- tion taking place between the upper surface of the vagina and the lower part of the bladder. 8. Retention of Urine from pressure of the Rectum upon the Neck of the Bladder. Ab- scesses in the vicinity of this intestine; hemor- rhoidal tumors; alvine concretions; and the scirrho-contracted state of the gut, &c. may bring on a retention of the urine by pressure on the neck of the bladder. The irritation, also, existing in these cases, may tend to produce the complaint by exciting a spasmodic contraction of the adjacent part of the urethra. Here the relief of the retention of the urine is to be effected In- removing, or curing, the other disorder, which operates as its cause. If this cannot be imme- diately accomplished, the catheter must be used, though, in several instances, it will be better to avoid even the irritation of the catheter, and try the effects of bleeding, the warm bath and opium, j which will frequently enable the patient to make water. The last means, however, will not suf- fice, when the cause of the retention is likely to continue a long time. 9. Retention of Urine from Foreign Bodies j in the Bladder. Without stopping to consider the uncommon kinds of retention produced by carcinoma, fungous diseases, and. hydatids in the bladder, let us pass on to the case, in which the urine is obstructed by a calculus at the neck off! the bladder. Here the patient, by altering his position, frequently changes the situation of thel stone, and is immediately able to make water again. However, this expedient will only pro-f cure relief while the calculus is loose in the cavitvj oi the bladder; for, after it has become fixed ini the commencement of the urethra, it must eitheif be pushed back with a catheter, taken hold otj and brought out with the urethra-forceps usetl by Sir. A. Cooper, or extracted by a kind oi operation, resembling the apparatus minor. Sen Lithotomy. Many instances of various kinds of worm.4 in the bladder are upon record. On this subj ject, an interesting paper was published a fev| years ago, by my friend Mr. Lawrence, who men with an example, in which an undescribed specie* of worms was abundantly voided from the blad| dcr. “ The origin of those animals (says Mi Lawrcnce)*which inhabit the internal parts < living bodies, is involved in much obscurity j Although the intestinal worms appear manifestly j r .1 • f..AAnrtpfnn/m nnil nrirnllfl