AMAUROSIS. 33 the preceding, by its formation being scarcely ever quick, but usually very slow, and its „not exhibiting any traces of those two very different stages, which are peculiar to the other case. It also invariably commences with the visus retieu- 1 Pus or nebulosus, without any alternation with a blinding glare of light; and the eyesight is sometimes considerably better, arid sometimes weaker, which always depends upon the accidental operation of internal or external circumstances. Thus, it may be noticed, that, in these cases, im- mediately after a good repast, the enjoyment of excellent wine and liquor, after unexpected great jov, after the spirits have been raised by the pleasures of a convivial party, or directly after a violent fit of anger, die sight undergoes great amendment. On the other hand, sudden 1 right, great anxiety, profound grief, loss of sleep, long fasting, &c. constantly produce an immediate aggravation of the blindness; and the difference between these effects is, that the melioration of the eyesight never continues long, while the di- minution of it not only remains, but gets worse and worse. It is not at all uncommon for this species of amaurosis to make its appearance as a night-blindness, because common artificial light is much too feeble to make due impression upon the diminished sensibility of the optic nerve; and consequently these patients always show a partiality to a very strong light. To such weak- sighted individuals, the flame of a candle, or the moon, appears as if covered by a dense veil, with an expanded halo round it of various colours. There is no complaint made of pain in the head or eyes ; and no sensation of fulness or weight is experienced in the eye-ball; much less are there any empirical symptoms of the disease in the structure and form of the eye, or in the action of its irritable textures ; but the amaurosis, espe- cially when it has been long complete, is usually conjoined with a debilitated habit. Every thing, says professor Beer, which tends io produce considerable constitutional weakness, •either locally in the eyes, or both locally and con- stitutionally, must at least be regarded as a more or less obvious cause of this amaurosis; that is to say, when the case is a mere impairment or loss of sight, without other morbid appearances; for, as we shall presently find, there are several kinds of amaurosis, which, though they depend upon direct local debility, or local and general debility together, do not by any means arise in the form of simple diminution or loss of sight, free from ever}' apr peararice of complication and disease in the eye: here belong especially shocks affecting the optic nerve, the brain, or the whole nervous system, produced rather by moral than physical causes; for a simple physical shook of the .nerves, espe- cially when it falls directly upon the eye, com- monly produces at once a considerable diminution of cohesion in the nervous textqre, as is more or less evinced by the appearances of the eye in general, and by the action of its irritable parts in particular. Secondly must be reckoned every very considerable and long continued loss of blood or other, nutritious fluid. Thirdly, a long re- sidence in a dark place, and the entire nonem- F oyment of the eye. Fourthly, the debility of nge, and dulness of the whole nervous system, partu ularly when the patient’s eyesight has been ,l iu Iris youth by immoderate exertion. and the eyes are of a dark colour. Fifthly, the present form of amaurosis sometimes comes on as an immediate consequence of typhus, espe- cially when the lever has been attended with severe diarrhoea, and nasal hemorrhage, not of a critical, but of a mere symptomatic kind, hardly admitting of suppression ; but, in the latter case, the amaurotic blindness is rarely complete. Beer questions whether, in typhoid patients, the ab- sorption of the fat in the orbit, and the extraor- dinary retraction of the globe of the eye into that cavity, may not have a share in producing this amaurotic weakness of sight. (hekre ion ue/i Augenlir. b. 2. p. 491, 92.) With respect to the prognosis, this species of uncomplicated amaurosis, unattended with any defect in the structure of. the eye, is generally much seldomer curable than the former, because the cause of the disorder usually consists of an assemblage of many concealed and difficultly discoverable circumstances, and because it is rarely possible to put the patient under all the conditions, which are essential to the cure, eyen when the causes of the disease are understood ; as for instance, when the disease has arisen from extreme indigence, or domestic trouble. Even when a cure is effected, it is with the greatest difficulty, and not till after a considerable time. Hence, though circumstances may have a fa- vourable appearance, no promise should be made, and when the amaurosis is already complete and of long standing, great patience must be enjoined during the treatment. In very poor persons, and in hospitals, says Beer, this species of amaurosis may always be regarded as incurable, because, in such examples, the operation of the medicines indicated can never be properly seconded by diet, nutritious food, mental encouragement, and re? quisite exercise in an open pure air. At the commencement of the disorder, the de- pressed vitality (or rather sensibility) of the optic nerve should be raised, if possible, by the gradual use of stimulating liniments, and the vapour of aether. The rest of the treatment, recommended by Beer, resembles that of the second stage of amaurosis from morbid sensibility of the optic nerve. Iiis plan is also to try the use of w.eak re- medies first, and then gradually those which have the most powerful operation. (Beer, val. cit. p. 493, 94.) Beer's Second Species Amaurosis; Cat-t vs Amam a-is. This species of the disorder, of which Beer has yet met with but one form, rarely increases to complete blindness : it occurs chiefly in very old persons, and it is perhaps this affection to which some oculists have given the unmeaning name of ambli/opla senilis. Sometimes, however, this kind of amaurosis takes place in young persons and children; and one circumstance, that demands particular notice, in its nosology, is, that it always takes place either in thin, dwindled, old, grey- headed subjects, nearly in the state of marasmus senilis, in whom consequently the exchange of organic matter is carried on but tardily, or else in young subjects, who are unhealthy, and dis- posed to consumption, hectical adults, emaciated children, and ns a consequence of severe injuries of the eye. While this amaurosis is not perfectly formed, the iris retains its mobility, and the pupil L> .