GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 541 1 oice of experience be not listened to. and ani- mation be deferred, the parts become disorga- ized, and the patient’s life is put into imminent eril. .... .- It is evident, says he, that, in this case, if we dsh to prevent the patient from dying of the ibsequent symptoms, amputation should be per- .rniecl before twelve, or at most twenty-four ours, have elapsed : even M. Faure himself pro- ssed this opinion in regard to certain descrip- ons of injury. (Mem. de Chir. Mduaire.T. 2.) With respect to wounds of the knee, the sen- ments of Mr. Guthrie nearly coincide with lose of Larrev. “ I most solemnly protest avs Mr. G. I do not remember a case do well, i which I knew the articulating end of the fe- iur, or tibia, to be fractured by a ball that passed irough the joint, although 1 have tried great umbers, even to the last battle of Toulouse. I low that persons, wounded in this way, have ,-ed; for, a recovery it cannot be called, where e limb is useless, bent backward, and a con- ant source of irritation and distress, after se- -;ral months of acute suffering, to obtain even ids partial security from impending death ; but, one case of recovery should take place iri fifty', it anv sort of equivalent for the sacrifice of the her forty-nine? Or is the preserving of a limb this kind an equivalent for the loss of one an?” (O') Gii'i-shat Wounds, ]<. 196.) In the attack of the village of Merksam near n ntwerp early in I 814, a soldier of the ,95th re- ment was brought to our field hospital, having •ceived a musket ball through the knee-joint, le staff surgeons on duty, and Mr. Curtis, sur- •on of the 1st guards, were preparing to ampu- te the limb, when a surgeon, attached to the >th, urgently recommended deferring the ope- tion. Superficial dressings were applied, and e patient sent to the rear. He lived several onths after the accident, at times affording >pes of a perfect recovery ; but, in the end, he 11 a victim to hectic symptoms. Indeed, such is the general unfortunate result these cases, that, Dr. Hennen lays it down as .aw of military surgery, that no lacerated joint, rticularly the knee, ankle, or elbow, should ever rve the field unamputated, where the patient is >t obviously sinking. (On Mililury Surgery, 41, Ed. 2.) According to Mr. Guthrie, fractures of the tella, without injury of the other bones, admit delay, provided the bone is not much splin- *ed. : Stvenlh case. Larrey observes, that if a large ■cayen, a small cannon-shot, or a piece of a mb-shell, in passing through the substance of nember, should have extensively denuded the ne, without breaking it, amputation is equally licated, although the soft parts may not appear have particularly suffered. Indeed, the vio- it concussion, produced bv the accident, has | H iken and disorganized all the parts; the me- llary substance is injured, the vessels are lace- ed, the nerves immoderately stretched, and own into a state of stupor; the muscles are prived of their lone; and the circulation and asibility in the limb are obstructed. Before : decide, however, Baron Larrey cautions us observe attentively the symptoms, which cha- tterize this kind of disorder. The case can be supposed to happen only in the leg, fvhere the bone is very superficial, and merely covered at its anterior part with the skin. The following are described as the symptoms : the limb is insensible, the foot cold as ice, the bone partly exposed, and on careful examination, it will be found that the integuments, and even the periosteum, are extensively detached from it. The commotion extends to a considerable di- stance ; the functions of the body are disordered; and all the secretions experience a more or less palpable'disturbance. The intellectual faculties are suspended, and the circulation is retarded. The pulse is small and concentrated ; the coun- tenance pale; and the eyes have a dull moist appearance. The patient feels such anxiety, that he cannot long remain in one posture, and requests, that his leg may be quickly taken off, as it incommodes him severely, and he expe- riences very acute pain in the knee. When all these characteristic symptoms are conjoined, says Larrey, we should not hesitate to amputate im- mediately; for, otherwise, the leg will be at- tacked with sphacelus, and the patient certainly perish. Larrey adduces several interesting cases in support of the preceding observations. Eighth rase. When a large gynglimoid arti- culation, such as the elbow, or especially the knee, has been extensively opened with a cutting instrument, and blood is extravasated in the joint, Larrey deems immediate amputation necessary. In these cases, the synovial membranes, the li- gaments and aponeuroses, inflame, the part swells, and erethismus rapidly takes place; and acute pains, abscesses, deep sinuses, caries, fe- brile symptoms, and death, are the speedy conse- quences. Larrey has seen numerous subjects die of such injuries, on account of the operation having been postponed through a hope of saving the limb. In his Memoires de Chirurgie Mili- taire, Tom. 2, some of these are detailed. Although a wound may penetrate a joint, yet, if it be small and unattended with extravasation of blood, M. Larrey informs us, it will generally heal, provided too much compression be not em- ployed. This gentleman believes in the common doctrine of the pernicious effect of the air on the cavities of the bod}'; yet, in this place, a doubt seems to affect him : speaking of the less danger of small wounds of joints, he says; “ u quni tieut cede dij)6rence, puisque L’air penetre dans l'reti- culation dims Cun enmme duns Centre ens ?” When two limbs have been at the same time so injured, as to require amputation, we should not be afraid of amputating them both imme- diately, without any interval. We have, says Lar- rey, several times performed this double ampu- tation, with almost as much success, as of the am- putation of a single member. He has recorded an excellent case in confirmation of this state- ment. (Mem. de Chir. Mdituire, 7’. 2, />• 478.) When a limb.is differently injured at the same time in two places, and one of the wounds re- quires amputation, (suppose a wound of the leg with a splintered fracture of the bone, and a se- cond of the thigh, done with a ball, but without any fracture of the os femoris, or other bad acci- dent) Larrey recommends us, first to dress the simple wound of the thigh, and amputate the leg immediately afterwards, if the knee be free from