r?64 DISLOCATION, he a tills, that such corpulent people as take a great deal of exercise, form exceptions to the fore- going remark.” (Surgical Essays, Part'2, p. 1.05.) There is a practice, in regard to compound dislocations, which, I think ought at all events to be adopted only in a very few cases: I mean the plan of sawing off the head of the luxated bone. According to Leveille, this method is recommended by Hippocrates as a means of ac- celerating and perfecting the cure. (NouvclLt: Dart line Cliirurgicnle, Turn. 2, p. 44.) How- ever, it seems not to have done sufficient good, in ancient times, to obtain a lasting reputation. In fact, when it was mentioned by the late Mr. Gooch, it had sunk into such oblivion, that it was received as an entirely new proposal. “Com- pound luxations (says this author) are of a more dangerous nature, than compound fractures, for very plain reasons; but, if a surgeon should- judge it advisable to attempt saving a limb under such threatening circumstances, l am inclined to think, from what 1 have observed, he will be more likely to succeed, by sawing off the head of the bone, especially if it lias long been quite out and exposed to the air.’' Mr. Gooch afterwards takes notice of a case in which Mr. Cooper of Bungay, sawed off the heads of the tibia and fibula, and preserved the limb, the patient being able to walk and work for his bread for many years afterwards. Other ex- amples are also briefly mentioned, in which the lower head of the radius was sawn off, and the head of the second bone of the thumb. The late Mr. Hey of Leeds, was induced to make trial of this plan in a compound luxation of the ankle. The example, however, which he published, is decidedly highly unfavourable to the practice, as the following passage will shew : “ I was in hopes, that this patient would have been able to walk stoutly; but, in this, I was dis- appointed. He walked indeed without a crutch; but, his gait was slow, his leg remaining weak, and his toes turning outwards, which rather sur- prised me, as his leg was very straight, when I ceased attending him.’’ Mr. Hey did not recite this case, with the view of recommending a similar practice in all cases of this accident; for, he had not always adopted it, nor, was he of opinion, that the same mode of treatment, whether by replacing the bones, saw- ing off their extremities, or amputating the limb, ought to be universally practised. When the laceration of the capsular ligament and integu- ments is not greater, than is sufficient to permit the head of the tibia to pass through them; and when, at the same time, the joint, or contiguous parts, have suffered no other injury ; Mr. Hey recommends the replacing of the bone, and an union of the integuments by suture, with the treatment adapted to wounds of the joints. (Prac- tical Observations in Surgery, Chop. \ 1, Edit. 2.) That in a few cases, recorded by Mr. Gooch, and Mr. Hev, the patients recovered with a new sort of joint,’only proves to my mind, the great resources and activity of nature, and her occasional triumph over the opposition sho meets with from bad and injudicious surgery. A limb so treated, must ever afterwards be shorter than its fellow, and consequently the patient be more or less a cripple. We have seen, that, in the only instance, published by Mr. Hey, considerable deformity was the consequence of the practice. I cannot help adding my belief, that this gentleman would have experienced more success in the treatment of compound dislocations, had lie relinquished the objectionable method of S6wing up the wound. In such accidents, every kind ofirritation should be avoided as much as possible, and that the wound may be conveniently closed with sticking plaster, the observation of numerous cases in St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital, has perfectly convinced me. In this munificent institution, under the disadvantage of the air of London, and an hos- pital, compound luxations used, at the period when I was an apprentice there, to be treated with marked success; and, I feel warranted in ascribing the circumstance to the mode of treatment, which was conducted ou the principles explained in this section of the dictionary. The most ingenious arguments, which have yet been urged in behalf of the practice of sawing off the ends of the bones, in compound disloca- tions of the ankle, are those recently published by Mr. A. Cooper. However, he does not ad- vise the plan, without restrictions. If the dis- location (says he) can be easily reduced, without sawing off the end of the bone; if it be not too obliquely broken to remain firmly upon the as- tragalus after being reduced ; if the end of the bone be not shattered, for then the small loose pieces of bone should be removed, and tiie sur- face of the bone be smoothed by the saw; if fhe patient be not excessively irritable, and the mus- cles, affected with violent spasms, impeding re- duction, and causing a displacement of the bones after they have been reduced; Mr. A. Cooper advises the immediate reduction of the parts, and uniting the wound by adhesion. In the opposite circumstances, rather than amputate the limb, he would saw off the ends of the bones. (Surgical Essai/s, Fart 1, p. 154.) The only case, in which the plan of sawing off the head of the bone can be at all proper, is when a compound dislocation cannot be reduced, not- withstanding the enlargemefit of the wound in the skin, and every other possible means. There is no other mode of preventing the formidable symptoms, which would ensue, were the bone left in a state of protrusion through the integuments; nor is there any better way ot alleviating such symptoms after they have actually begun. M. Roux gives much praise to the English surgeons for the judicious boldness, which they have evinced in cases of this description. Although Fabricius Hildanus, Ferrand, Desault, Lnumonier, and several other French surgeons, have like many British practitioners, ventured to remove the whole of the astragalus, when this bone was totally separated from the scapluvdes, and pro- truded, in compound luxations, yet M. Roux acknowledges, that the bold practice, of sawing off the lower cud of the humerus, the lower end of the radius, the lower end of the tibia, and also of the fibula, at the same time, originated with, and was first executed by English surgeons. ( Parallels de la Chirurgic Anglcise avec la Chip uirgie. Fraitfoisc, p. 208—209.) niSI.UCATlONS OK TIIE LOWER JAW. The lower jaw can only be luxated forward*.