549 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Form grounds for a correct opinion on the true nature of the accident. It cannot be supposed, that adhesions always ,ake place round the opening of a gun-shot vound in the chest, because the lungs must sometimes collapse, and become considerably ’istaiit from the pleura, especially when the com- munication established between the atmospheric ir and the cavity of the thorax is very free .-id direct. However-, as adhesions are ex- emely common between the outer surface of re lungs, and the inner surface of the pleura ostalis, they must, in many instances,- exist Tore the receipt of a wound, and, of course, revent the usual collapse of the lungs. As the general symptoms, and treatment, of ounds of the chest, are detailed in the article founds, I shall not here detain the reader long toon the subject. When a patient has been shot the chest, the most important indication is to event and subdue inflammation of the lungs id pleura. In few other cases, can repeated id large bleedings be so advantageously prac- ;ed. Here, there will not be so much danger au extravasation of blood as in stabs, id, even if an effusion of that fluid were to ppen within the cavity of the pleura, the ■ening would generally be sufficient for its cape, and it would not be so frequently found cessary to dilate the wound, or make a new cning, as when the injury has been inflicted .h a sharp-pointed weapon. 'In this last kind of case, when attended in the . {inning with bleeding, Baron Larrey parti- ^arly insists upon the advantage of immediately nging the edges of the wound together with lesive plaster, instead of leaving it open, as /ised by the generality of writers; and he en- vours to prove, that this immediate closure of wound has great effect in stopping the he- rrhage from the pulmonary vessels. Sup- ping an extravasation of blood in the chest -e to follow, he argues, that it would be better let it out afterwards by a suitable incision, n to suffer the patient to perish of hemorrhage once, by not closing the wound. (Man. <lc r. Mil. T. 4, p. 151, &c.) Dr. Hennen is favour of the same practice. (On Military "try, p. 373, Ed. 2.) In a penetrating gun : wound of the chest, after taking away from ty to forty ounces of blood, the surgeon rid extract all extraneous substances, and iters of bone within reach, and even dilate external wound for this purpose, if neces- . Light unirritating dressings are then to pplied. The patient may now be (compara- y speaking) easy, until the spitting of blood, danger of suffocation, from inward hemor- ;e, come on again, when the lancet must be n employed ; “ and, if by this management, ated as often as circumstances demand, the ;nt survives the first twelve hours, hopes begin to be entertained of his recovering the immediate effects of hemorrhage,” and, this danger is over, as Dr. Hennen truly rves, the lancet is the only thing which can lile. Afterwards, when the paroxysms of the sense of suffocation, and the return of arrhage, have become more moderate, di- 15 m3y be prescribed with the most beneficial D and, if the cough be very troublesome, no medicine is more useful than Hie spermaceti mixture with opium. With this treatment must be combined the exhibition of saline purgatives, mild laxative clysters, and a strictly low diet, the patient being allowed only slops. (See Hen- nen’s Military Surgery, p. 373. Ed. 2.) When matter forms in the thorax, in conse- quence of gun-shot wounds, the opening will ge- nerally suffice for its escape ; but should the col- lection of pus be confined, and occasion dan- gerous symptoms, the external wound must either be enlarged, or a new incision practised, according as circumstances may indicate. The mode of malting an opening into the chest is considered in the article Paracentesis. When a ball lodges, without falling into the chest, it may lie either in the substance of the parietes of this cavity between the muscles, or in ' one of the intercostal spaces, and continue there a very long time without causing much incon- venience, or making its way outward. But, when it is lodged in the thoracic cavity itself, .it descends by its weight, and sometimes excites considerable irritation, suppuration, sinuses, and hectic symptoms : in this case, if its situation can be ascertained, Baron Larrey recommends an attempt to extract it. In an early stage of the case, he says, that the intercostal space will often be wide enough to let the ball pass through it; but that, al a later period, this space becomes too narrow, and it will be necessary to cut away a portion of the upper edge of the rib with a len- ticular knife, which is to be preferred to a tre- phine, or saw. This advice is supported by some very interesting cases. (See Man. de Chir. Mil. T. 4, p. 253.) Frequently, tlie ball fractures the rib, and, with the aid of dilatation, sufficient room for its extraction may be made ; but the possibility and propriety of removing it through the original opening will, of course, de- pend upon the situation of the foreign body, and the urgency of the symptoms. A case is re- corded, in which a ball, weighing three ounces and a half, was thus removed. (Med. and Surg. Journ. Vnl. 3, p. 353.) Alphons. Ferrius de Sclopetorum, sive Ar- chibusorum Vulneribus, <|-c. Svo. Romeo, 1552. J. F.Rota de Bellicorum Tormentariorum Vnl- ncribus et Curatione, 4to. Bonon. 1555. Bo- tallus de Curat. Vainer. 1565 Wm. Clowe's Approved Treatise for all young Chirurgians concerning Burnings with Gunpowder, and Wounds made with Gun-shot, fyc. 4to. 1591. J. Quercetanus, Sclopetarius, sive de curandis vulneribus quae sclopetorum et similiuvi tormen- torumictibusacciderunt Htio. 1591,12mo.Lcips. 1614. Fr. Plazzonus, de Vulneribus Sclopeto- rum, S^c. 4to. Vend. 1618. J. Woodall, Viati- cum, fol. Loud. 1639. II. F. Le Dran, Trait £ on Reflections tirecs de la Pratique sur les Playes d'armes d feu, 2de Ed. 12rno. Paris, 1740. Desport, TraiM dcs Plaics d’armes d feu, J 2mo. Paris, 1749* Ranby's Method of treating Gun-shot Wounds, 12mo. London, 1781. Observations sur dcs Plaies d'armes d feu, compliqutcs de fracture, ati.v articulations dcs extremites, on au voisinage de ecs ariicu-. lotions, par M. Boucher, in Mem. de l'Arad, de Chirurgie, T 5, p. 279, Edit, in 12mo. Observations sur des Plaies d'armes a feu eom- pliqulcs sur tout de fracas dcs os, par M.