LITHOTOMY. 777 very favourably of the rule, which is followed by many surgeons, of bleeding the patient « soon as he is put to bed, and recovered from the first depressing effects of the operation. An opening medicine should also be given the day before the patient is cut, and a clyster injected a couple of hours before the time fixed upon for the opera- tion, in order to empty the rectum, and thus diminish the chance of its being wounded. As it is advantageous to have the bladder somewhat distended, the patient should be re- quested to retain his urine a certain time before being cut. Formerly, a jugum penis was some- times used for confining the urine in the bladder; but, since my entrance into the profession, I have never heard of this contrivance being em- ployed. Before the operation, the following instru- ments should all be arranged ready on a table: a staff’of as large a diameter as will easily admit of introduction, and the groove of which is very deep, and closed at the extremity. A sharp gorget, with a beak nicely and accurately adapted to the deep groove of the prpceding instrument, so as to glide easily and securely. A large scalpel for making the first incisions. Forceps of various sizes, for extracting the stone. A blunt-pointed curved bistoury for enlarging the wound in the prostate, if the incision of the gorget be not suf- ficiently large, as the parts should never be lace- rated. A pair of Le Cat’s forceps with teeth for breaking the stone, if too large to come through any wound reasonably dilated. A syringe i'or washing out clots of blood, or particles of the stone. A scoop for the removal of small calculi or fragments. Two strong garters, or bands, with which the patient’s bands and feet are tied to- gether. The curvature of the staff is a matter of con- siderable importance; because the direction of the incision through the prostate gland and neclc of the bladder is partly determined by it. The French surgeons, convinced of the advantage of introducing the gorget in the direction of the axis of the bladder, always use a staff, which is much more curved than what English surgeons employ. (See Roux, Voyage fait d Loud res m 1814, ou Parallele de la Chir. Angloise, <$r. p. SI 9.) But, I am inclined to believe with Scarpa, that, upon the whole, it is best to let the curvature of the staff correspond exactly to that of the axis of the neck of the urethra and pro- state gland. (Memoir on Hawkins's Gorget, 17.) After introducing the staff, and feeling that the stone is certainly in the bladder, the patient is to be secured in the same position, as was described in the account of Cheselden’s latest method of operating. The assistant, holding up the scrotum, with bis left hand, is with his right to hold the staff! inclining its handle towards the right groin, so as to make the grooved convexity of the instrument turn towards the left side of the perinaeum. Some operators, also, like the assistant to depress the handle of the staff towards the patient’s abdomen,’ m order to make its convexity project in the pe- ri a: urn, while others condemn this plan, assert- •ng, that it withdraws the instrument from the bladder. (Allan, Ac.) Professor Scarpa disapproves of inclining the handle of the stall towards the patient’s right groin, (p. 15) and lie expressly recommends this instrument to be held firmly against the arch of the pubes, in a line perpendicular to the body of the patient, so that the convex part of the director may be placed towards the rectum, and take the exact course of the axis of the neck of the urethra and prostate gland. (P.20.) This position of the staff is the firmest and most com- modious to the surgeon, and Scarpa maintains, that on such stability of the instrument the safety and precision of the lateral operation depend.— (7\15-). The first incision should always commence, below the bulb of the urethra, over the mem- branous part of this canal, at the place, where the operator means to make his first cut into the groove of the staff, and the cut should extend at least three inches, obliquely downward, to the left of the raphe of the perinaeum, at equal distances from the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus. In a large man, the first cut should pass the anus an inch and a half or more; for, it is a general rule in surgery to make free external incisions, by which the surgeon is enabled to conduct the remaining steps of his operation with greater fa- cility, and no where is it so necesSary, as where a stone is to be extracted. (Allan.) That excel- lent surgical writer, Callisen, la}'s it down as a rule to be observed in the lateral operation, that the incision ought not to extend to such parts as can make no impediment to the extraction of the stone; and, therefore, (says lie) the hull), and that part of the urethra, which is surrounded by the corpus spongiosum, should never he cut. Only those parts ought to be divided, which firmly resist the safe introduction of instruments into the bladder, and the extraction of the stone. Hence, the integuments must be opened by an ample in- cision, and the membranous part of the urethra, transversalcs perinsei muscles, levater ani, and prostate gland, be properly divided. (Callisen, Systerna Chirurgice Hodicrnee, Pars ‘2, p. 655.) Like Scarpa, however, he is fearful of making a free cut through the neck of the bladder, and, in . lieu of doing so, prefers a slow and cautious di- latation of the parts. When the .external cut through the integuments has been executed, the next object is to divide the transversales perinsei muscles, which stand, like a bar, across the tri- angular hollow, out of which alone the stone can be easily extracted. A part of the membranous portion of the urethra, adjoining the prostate gland, is next to be laid open; but, an extensive cut through it, as far forward as the bulb, is quite unnecessary, because it will not at all facilitate the passage of the stone outward. Having placed the beak of the gorget in the groove of tlie stall! the operator takes firm hold of the latter instrument with his left hand, raises its handle from the abdomen, so that it may form nearly a right angle with the body, and stands up. Before attempting to push the gorget into the bladder, however, he should slide it backwards and forwards, with a wriggling motion, that lie may first be sure of its beak being in the groove of the staff! The bringing forward of the handle cf the latter instrument, so as to elevate its point, before introducing the gorget into the bladder, is