(J6o HYDROCELE. Observations on the Putrid Ulcer by L. Gillespie, in London Medical Journal, VoL 6, 1785. Rollo on Diabetes, 1797. Sir Gilbert. Blanc on the Diseases of Seamen, Ed. 3, 1797- Trotter's Medicinu Nautica, Vols. 2, and 3, published 1799. John Bell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. 1, 1801. Wolf Ploucquet, De Grangrocna sic dicta Nosocomiorum, Tub. 1802. Leslie, De Gungreend Contagiosa. Edinb. 1804.Johnston, De Gangrernd Contagiosa JVoso- comiale, Edinb. 1805. J. Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 456, c.t seq. Edinb. 1813, and Report of Observations, made in the Mili- tary Hospitals of Belgium, 8vo. Edinb. 1816. J. Hennen, Principles of Military Surgery, p. 210, $c. 8vo. Edinb. 1820. C. J. M. Lan- genbcck, Neue Bibl. 2 B. p. 611, S[C. Ha- nover, 1820. Me moire snr la Complication des Plaies et des Ulceres, connue sous Ic nom de Pourritnre d’hopital, par J. Dclpech, Svo. Paris, 1815. Also Precis Elementaire des Maladies Chir. T. 1, p. 123, 8[C. Paris, 1816‘. Brugmans und Delpech uber den Hospital- brand, uberseztmit Anmcrkungen und Anhang von Kisser, Jennal, 1815. Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chir. T. I, p. 320, Paris, 3 814. Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris by J. Cross, p. 82, London, 1815. II. Home Black- adder, Observations on Phagedccna Gangrce- nosa, 8vo. Edinb. 1818, which is unquestion- ably the best treatise on the subject, whether his sentiment about the disease being always or nearly always, communicated by the direct ap- plication of the infectious matter to the parts, and not through the contagion in the air, be correct, or not; or whether his opinion about the local nature of the disease in the beginning, and its invariable commencement with the local mischief, and not with constitutional symptoms, be liable to exceptions or not. The rest of the subject of Gangrene is treated of in the article Mortification. HYDRARGYRIA. A peculiar eruption occasioned by the use of mercury, and named in Dr. Bateman’s synopsis eczema tub-rum. (See Mercury.) HYDROCELE, (from viwp, water, and a tumor.) The term hydrocele, if used in a literal sense, means any tumor containing water; but surgeons have always confined it either to a collection of fluid in the cellular membrane of the scrotum; in a cyst, or the common cellular texture, of the spermatic cord; or in the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. The celebrated Dr. Alexander Monro of Edinburgh, and Mr. S. Sharp, were almost the only writers, before Mr. Pott, who sensibly and rationally explained the true nature of these dis- eases. anasarcous tumor of the scrotum : The hydrocele by infiltration of French wri- ters; hydrocele cedematodcs; is most frequently only a symptom of a dropsical habit, and very often accompanies both anasarca, and the par- ticular collection within the abdomen, called ascites. Mr. Pott describes it,_ as “ an equal, soft tumor, possessing every part of the cellular membrane, in which both the testicles are en- veloped, and consequently it is generally as large on one side as on the other; it leaves the skin of its natural colour; or, to speak more properly* it does not redden or inflame it; if the quantity of water be not large, nor the distention great, the skin preserves some degree of rugosity; the tumor has a doughy kind of feel; easily receives, and for a while retains, the impression of the fingers; the raphe, or seam, of the scrotum divides the swelling nearly equally; the sper- matic process is perfectly free, and of its natural size; and the testicles seem to be in the middle of the loaded membrane. This is the appearance, when the disease is in a moderate degree. But if the quantity of extravasated serum be large, or the disease farther advanced, the skin, instead of being wrinkled, is smooth, tense, and plainly shews the limpid state of the fluid underneath": it is cold to the touch, does not so long retain the impression of the finger, and is always accom- panied with a similar distention of the skin of the penis; the preputium of which is sometimes so enlarged, and so twisted, and distorted, as to make a very disagreeable appearance. These are the local symptoms: to which it may be added, that a yellow countenance, a loss of appetite, a de- ficiency of urinary secretion, swelled legs, a hard belly, and mucous stools, are its very frequent companions.” As the cellular membrane on one side of the scrotum is a continuation of that, which is si- tuated on the other, and both freely communicate; the accounts, delivered by certain authors, of the possibility of this species of hydrocele being con- fined to one side of the scrotum is not credited by some modern surgeons. (See Diet, des Sciences, Med. T. 22, p. 193.) At all events, such a case is extremely rare, and, when it happens, is probably induced by the irritation of the urine in infants, or of the friction of the clothes in old persons, only acting upon a part of the scrotum; for occasionally, though not often, the disease is acknowledged to proceed from these local causes. (Vol. ct loco cit.) The cure of the original disease, when it arises from constitutional causes, comes within the pro- vince of the physician, and requires a course of in- ternal medicine : but sometimes the loaded scro- tum and penis are so troublesome to the patient, and in such danger of mortification, that a re- duction of their size becomes absolutely neces- sary: and at other times, a discharge of the. re- dundant extravasated serum is ordered as an as- sistant to the internal regimen. As Mr. Pott observes, the means of making this discharge are two, viz. puncture and incision: the former is made with the point of a lancet; the latter with the same instrument, or with a knife. Accord' ing to the same author, and, indeed, every man of experience, wounds in anasarcous, or dropsical habits, are apt to inflame, very difficultly broughl to suppuration, and “ often prove gangrenous in spite of all endeavours to the contrary. But, the larger and deeper the wounds are, the more probable are these bad consequences. Simple' punctures, with the point of a lancet, are much, less liable to be attended by them, than any otherjl kind of wound; they generally leave the skinj easy, soft, cool, and uninflamed, and in a stat to admit a repetition of the same operation i necessary. Incisions create a painiul, crude, hazardous sore, requiring constant care. Punc- tures seldom produce any uneasiness at all; an