190 ANUS. tions, escharoties are freely applied, and diligent search is made for new hollows: the former of these most commonly Increase both the hard- ness and the gleet; and by the latter new sinuses are sometimes really produced. •These occasion a repetition of escharoties, and, perhaps, of incisions; by which means, cases which at first, and in their own nature were simple and easy of cure, are rendered complex and tedious. 1 o quit reasoning, and speak to fact only: In the great number of these cases, which must have been in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, within these ten or twelye years, 1 do aver, (says Pott) that I have not iriet with one, in the circumstances before described, that has not been cured by mere simple division, together with light, easy dressings : and that I have not, in all that time, used for this purpose, a single grain of prcccipiUde, or of any other esr.harotic. The best and most proper method of dividing the intestine, in the case of a collection of mat- ter formed juxta anum, we have already de- scribed. The intention to be aimed at by incision in the present case, is exactly the same, and ought to be executed in the same manner. Let us first suppose the matter to be fairly formed; to have made its point, as it is called; and to be fit to be let out. Where such point is, that is, where the skin is most thin, and the fluctuation most palpable, there the opening most certainly ought to be made, and always with a cutting instrument, not caustic, as was formerly done. We have supposed the matter of the abscess to have been formed, and collected; but still to have been contained within the cavity, until let out by an incision. We are now to consider it, as having made its own way out, without the help of art. This state of the disease is also subject to some variety of appearance; and these different appearances have produced, not only a multipli- city of appellations, but a groundless supposition also, of a variety of essentially different circum- stances. When a discharge of the matter by incision is too long delayed or neglected, it makes its own way out, by bursting the external parts some- where near to the fundament, or bv eroding and making a hole through the intestine into its cavity; or sometimes bjr both. In either case, the discharge is made sometimes by one orifice only, and sometimes by more. Those, in which the matter has made its escape by one or more openings, through the skin only, are called blind external fistula; ; those, in which the discharge has been made into the cavity of the intestine, without any orifice in the skin, are named blind internal; and those, which have an opening both through the skin, and into the gut, arc called completefistu'ce. Thus, all these cases are deemed fistu'ous, when hardly any of them ever are so: and none of them necessarily. They are still mere abs- cesses, which are burst without the help of art, and, if taken proper and timely care of, will require no such treatment as a true fistula may possibly stand in need of. The mo3t frequent of all are what are called t he blind external; and the complete. The method whereby each of these states may be known is, by introducing a probe into the sinus by the orifice in the skin, while the fore finger is within the rectum : this will give the examiner an opportunity of knowing exactly the true state of the case, witli all its circumstances. Whether the ease be, what is called a com- plete fistula, or not; that is, whether there be an opening in the skin only, or one there, and another in the intestine, the appearance to the eye is much the same. Upon discharge of the matter, the external swelling subsides, and the inflamed colour of the skin disappears, the orifice, which at first was sloughy and foul, after a day or two are past, becomes clean and contracts in size; but the discharge, by fretting the parts about, renders the patient still uneasy. As this kind of opening seldom proves suf- ficient for a cure, (though it sometimes does) the induration, in some degree, remains; and if the orifice happens not to be a depending one, some part of the matter lodges, and is discharged by intervals, or may be pressed out by the fingers of an examiner. The diseas', in this state, is not very painful; but it is trouble- some, nasty, and offensive : the continual dis- charge of a thin kind of fluid from it, creates heat, and causes excoriation in the parts above; it daubs the linen of the patient; and is, at times, very fetid; the orifice also sometimes contracts so, as not to be sufficient for the dis- charge; and the lodgment of the matter then occasions fresh disturbance. The means of cure proposed and practised by our ancestors, were three, viz. caustic, ligature, and incision. The intention in each of these is the same, viz. to form one cavity of the sinus and in- testines by laying the former into the latter. The two first are now completely, and most properly, exploded. Hitherto we have considered the disease either as an abscess, from which the matter has been let out by an incision, made by a surgeon; or from which the contents have been discharged by one single orifice, formed by the bursting of the skin somewhere about the fundament. Let us now take notice of it, when instead of one such opening, there are several. This state of the case generally happens when the quantity of matter collected has been large, the inflammation of considerable extent, the adipose membrane very sloughy, and the skin worn very thin before it burst It is, indeed, a circumstance of no real consequence at all; but from being misunderstood, or not properly at- tended to, is made one of additional terror to the patient, and additional alarm to the inex- perienced practitioner: for it is taught, and frequently believed, that each of these orifices is an outlet from, or leads to a distinct sinus, or hollow: whereas in truth, the case is most com- monly quite otherwise; all these openings are only so many distinct burstings of the skin covering the matter; and do all, be they few or many, lead and open immediately into the one single cavity of the abscess: they neither indicate, nor lead to, nor are caused by distinct sinuses; nor would the appearance of twenty of