1080 URETHRA. Cera Albm ^ij Olei ]|y>s. The superacetate of lead, previously powdered. Is to be triturated with part of the olive oil. The melted wax and vest of the oil are then to be added. This is a good dressing for cases requiring a mild astrin- gent application. UNGUENTUM RESIN7E.—]y,. Resinae Flavas, Cera Flavae sing. Olei Olivce Jjjj. Melt the resin and wax with a slow fire; then add the oil, and strain the mixture while hot.—• This is a common application to ulcer-s, which stand in need of being gently stimulated. UNGUENTUM SAMBUCI.— R. Flo- rum Sambuci, Adipis Suillae, singulorum Jjjj. The hog’s-lard being melted, boil the elder flowers in it till they become crisp, then strain the mixture. UNGUENTUM SULPFIURIS. jj. Adipis Suillae Jj^ss. Florum Sulphuris ^iv. Misce. UNGUENTUM TUTIAE.—R. Tuti* praparatae, Unguenti Cetacei q. s. Misce. —Used for smearing the borders and inside of the eyelids, in cases of chronic ophtbalmy, &c. UNGUENTUM TUTI2E COMPOSI- TUM.—}^/. Tutiae praparatae, Lapidis Cala- minaris praeparati, sing. 3VF Camphorae 3\j* Unguenti Sambuci fj^-j. Misce. This formula is contained in the Pharmaco- poeia of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. It is oc- casionally applied to the inside of the eyelids, piles, ulcerations, excoriations, &c. UNGUENTUM ZINCl.—jj. Zinci oxydi Adipis prapar. ^vj. Misce.—An astringent application in very common use. UNGUIS. (A Nail.) Some surgical authors apply this term to a collection of pus, or matter in the eye, when the abscess appears, through the cornea, to be shaped like a fifiger nail. UNION BY TFIE FIRST INTENTION. —When the opposite surfaces of a wound are brought into contact, and grow together at once, without suppurating, union by the first in- tention is said to take place. When wounds heal by suppurating, granulating, &c. they are some- times surgically described as getting well by the second intention. See Wounds. URETHRA, DESTRUCTION OF PART OF THE.—The attempts to complete the canal by operations, performed on the Taliacotian principles, will be noticed in the article URI- NARY FISTULA. URETHRA, STRICTURES OF.—A stricture of the urethra, as a modern writer observes, “ consists of some morbid alteration of action, or of structure, by which a part of the canal is rendered narrower, than the rest.’’ (Wilson on the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 3G1.) According to Mr. John Hunter, most obstructions to the passage of the urine, if not.all, are attended with nearly the same symptoms. Few persons take notice of the first symptoms of a stricture, till they have either become violent, or other inconveniences have been the consequence. A patient may have a considerable stricture, yet be unconscious, that his urine does not freely come away; anti irr r* c-4 vi/»f ll VC*. illPFP mnv PVPT1 the perinaeum, while he feels no obstruction to the passage of his urine, and does not suspect that he has any other complaint. There are three kinds of strictures; viz. the true permanent one, which arises from an altera- tion in the structure of a part of the urethra; the mixed case, consisting of a permanent stric- ture and a spasm ; and, thirdly, the true spasmo- dic stricture. , Whether the urethra is a truly muscular canal, and whether a variety of circumstances, remark- 4 E able in its healthy and diseased state, can be ac- counted for by its elasticity, the action of the muscles in the perinaeum, and other principles, without supposing the canal to be itself muscular, are questions, on which the writers on surgery entertain different opinions. However, the ge- 1 nerality of modern practitioners in this country have inclined to that view of the subject, which refers the property of muscularity either to the membrane of the urethra itself, or to the sub- j stance immediately surrounding it. The latter is now alleged to be the real case. “ From Mr. Bauer’s examinations (says Sir Everard Home) we find, that the human urethra is made up of two parts, an internal membrane, and an external muscular covering. The internal membrane is exceedingly thin, and no fibres are met with that can give it a power of contraction. When it is put on the stretch in a transverse direction, the circumference of the canal is no ways increased; but, when stretched longitudinally a small de- gree of elongation is produced. When a trans- verse section of the urethra is made, while in a collapsed state, the internal membrane is found thrown into folds, pressed together by the sur- rounding parts.” It is afterwards explained, that “ the muscular covering, by which the membrane is surrounded, or enclosed, is made up of fasciculi of very short fibres, which appear to be interwoven together, and to be connected by their origins and insertions with one another. { They aU have a longitudinal direction. There is a greater thickness of this muscular structure upon the upper, than the under surface of the urethra, which is still more evident as it ap- proaches nearer to the external orifice. The fas- ciculi are united together by an elastic substance of the consistence of mucus. Immediately be- yond the muscular portion of the urethra, is the cellular structure of the corpus spongiosum. Formerly “ it was believed, that either the lining of the urethra was composed of circular fibres, possessed of a power of contraction, or that it was immediately surrounded by such fibres; and, therefore, that the disease, commonly known by the name of a stricture in the urethra, was produced by a contraction of some of these circular fibres; and that permanent stricture was a term applied to these parts, when, in conse- quence of inflammation, they became confined to * that particular state. We now find, that the lining of the urethra is never met with in a con- tracted' state, but is thrown into folds by the action of the elastic ligamentous covering of the corpus spongiosum, and the swell of the longi- tudinal muscular fibres within it; and when these fibres have, by acting through their whole length, reduced the urethra to its shortest state, the nrcssiire linon the internal membrane is so