94 AMPUTATION. de Chir. p. 208 ;) Grade (Normen, fyc. 4to. Berlin 1812.) The sentiments of these three surgeons, however, are not founded upon any cases of their own, in which the operation was performed; yet as being men of considerable ex- perience and talents, their sanction may be pro- per, as a counterbalance to the opinions of some other men of eminence, who, without any per- sonal experience of their own, have condemned the proceeding, as unfit to be attempted. amputation at the shoulder joint. H. F. Le Dran performed the first operation of this kind, of which the particulars are recorded. It was in a case of caries and exostosis, reaching from the middle to the neck of the humerus. Le Dran began with rendering himself master of the bleeding, for which purpose he introduced a straight needle, and a strong ligature under the artery. This was passed from the front to the back part of the arm, as closely to the axilla and bone as possible. The ligature, then including the vessels, the flesh surrounding them, and the skin cover- ing them, was tightened over a compress. Le Dran, with a straight narrow knife, then made a transverse incision through the skin and deltoid muscle down to the joint, and through the liga- ment surrounding the head of the humerus. An assistant now raised the arm, and dislo- cated the head of the bone from the cavity of the scapula. This allowed the knife to be passed with ease between the bone and the flesh. Le Dran then carried the knife down- ward, keeping its edge always somewhat inclined towards the bone. In this manner, he gradually cut through all the parts, as far as a little below the ligature. As there was a large flap, Le Dran made a second ligature with a curved needle, which ligature included a great deal of flesh, the redundant portion of which was cut off together with the first ligature, which had become useless. The cure was completed in about ten weeks. (Obr. de Chir. T. 1, p. 315, Paris 1731 ; and Traitd de Oner. p. 365.) Le Dran (the son) who published this memorable case, does not state, that the operation was a new one, and it appears, from the Recherches Critiques stir I’origine, df-r. de la Cliirurgie en France, and from La Faye’s notes on Dionis, that it had been previously practised by Morand, the father. Garengeot thought that the ligature might be applied by means of a curved needle, with sharp edges, and, in order to lessen the wound, he di- rects the incision to begin two or three finger- breadths below the acromion, across the deltoid muscle, so as to form one flap, then a lower one was made in the axilla; and after the second liga- ture had been applied, the two flaps were brought into contact. (Traild des Oper. de Cldr. t. 3. p. 350. Mem. de Acad, de Chir. T. 2, p. 261.) La Faye extended the improvements further. After placing the patient in a chair, and bringing the arm into a horizontal position, he made, with a common bistoury, a transverse incision into the deltoid muscle down to the bone, four finger- breadths below the acromion. Two other inci- sions, one in front, the other behind, descended perpendicularly to this first, and made a large flap of the figure of a trapezium, which was detached and turned up towards the top of the shoulder. The two heads of the biceps, the tendons of the iipra-spinntus, infra-spinatus, teres minor and subscapularis, and the capsular ligament, were next divided. Now, when the assistant, who held the lower part of the limb, made the bone describe the motion of a lever upward, the head of the bone was easily dislocated. La Faye next carried his incision downward, along the inner part of the arm, until lie was able to feel the vessels, which he tied as near the axilla as possible. The separation of the limb was then completed a finger’s breadth below the ligature. The flap was then brought down over the glenoid cavity, and the wound was dressed. (See L'mteclle Methode pour fair l’Ope- ration de l’Amputation dans l'articulation du Bras ovee I'Omoplate, par M. La Faye, in Men), de I? Acad. de Chirurgic, Tom. 5, p. 195, Edit, in 12mo.) With respect to La Faye, it is curious to remark a coincidence between him and Larrey: the latter, though generally averse to attempt to unite stumps by the first intention, is an advocate for this practice after hip-joint amputations ; so La Faye, who was fearful of laying down the flap, after amputation of the leg, had no such appre- hension at the shoulder. La Faye’s method is yet regarded as one of the most approved, where the state of the soft parts will admit of it. But, it is absurd to think of ap- plying any one plan to all the various states, in which the injured or diseased limb may present itself. It is advised by Larrey himself, when a wound extends through the upper part of the arm, break- ing the bone, and injuring the soft parts. Here, says he, it would be impossible to form an ante- rior and a posterior flap, for the soft parts in these situations have been destroyed. On the coritrarv, when the deltoid is shot away, La Faye’s plan is inadmissible. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 2, p. 167.) The advantages of La Faye’s plan are obvious. As only one ligature was applied, the patient was saved a great deal of pain; the flap connected with the acromion was capable of covering the whole surface of the wound, and was more easilv applied and kept on the stump, than the lowermost of the two flaps which Garengeot recommended; and the discharge found a ready outlet down- wards. Mr. S. Sharp recommended the following plan. “ The patient’s arm being held horizontally, make an incision through the membrana adiposa, from the upper part of the shoulder across the pectoral muscle, down to the arm-pit, then turn- ing the knife with its edge upwards, divide that muscle and part of the deltoid, all which may be done without danger of wounding the great ves- sels, which will become exposed by these open- ings. If they be not, cut still more of the del- toid muscle, and cany the arm backward. Then with a strong ligature, having tied the artery and vein, pursue the circular incision through the joint, and carefully divide the vessels at a consi- derable distance below the ligature; the other small vessels arc to be stopped, as in other cases. “ In doing this operation, regard should be had to the saving as much skin as possible, and to the situation of the processus acromion, which, projecting considerably beyond the joint, an un- wary operator would be apt to cut upon.” (0/n- rations of Surgery.) Bromfield used to have pressure made on t he* artery above the clavicle. His incision began on the inside n! the arm, by the edge of the del-