OPHTHALMY. 877 floiituch remedies as operate upon the whole the application of bags of aromatio substances, stitutioH 1 • Purgative and gentlv aperient Beer sanctions the employment of poultices made dicines whi6h will empty the bowels: well, and of bread crum and warm herbs, or the pulp of a •en the determination of blood to the head roasted apple. But, this experienced author is Lyes 2 Clvsters, which are useful on the very particular in qualifying his approbation of ie principles. ' 3. The frequent-exhibition of moist applications with a caution, that they must nitres potass®. 4. General bleeding, the never be allowed to become completely cold on ■acv of which will much depend upon the the eye, whereby they would do more harm in a ad beincr voided in a full stream. Beer seems quarter of an hour, than any good, which may prefer opening a vein on the foot; but, in have been attained in many hours by their pre- ..ia„d the most experienced practitioners ge- vious use. Hence, Beer employs poultices only allv open a vein in the arm, and sometimes in cases of necessity. In this country, “ when temporal artery. The blood, as Beer re- the extreme vascular congestion and excessive rks, should be allowed to flow, until the hard, sensibility are reduced, and the inflammation * ill pulse rises and becomes plainly softer; for, tends to become chronic,, the use of cold lotions, erwise the operation will be completely use- of a slightly tonic quality, is substituted with s. Also when in these cases, general bleeding great advantage for ablutions of warm water. 10 longer indicated, the employment of leeches The sulphates of alum and zinc aie the best. 1 yet be advantageous, and, afterwards, scari- (Travers, Synopsis, Qc. p. 252.) I he em- ttions may be practised, which, at an earlier ployment of astringents also agrees with the ad- ded, would have aggravated all the inflamma- vice delivered by Richter and Scarpa. Here •y symptoms. then we a P°‘nt on which Beer differs from By strict attention to the five above explained the generality of writers; but, nothing is clearer Jications, either without precipitation, or too to me, than that his alarm about the ill effect of jeh delay, the first stage of ophthalmy, even cold upon the eye in the second stage of oph- ien in its most violent degree, mav be cer- thalmy is only the fruit of some theories, which he nly checked and resolved; and all suppuration entertains, and not of impartial experience. 3. oided, so that the eye may be restored to a When there are small ulcers, or pustules, on the rfectly sound state again, provided the patient, eyeball itself, Beer assures us, that great benefit eviously to the attack, was quite healthy, and is derived from dropping between it and the eye- course the affection of the eye a genuine lids a tepid solution of the lapis divinus, the iopathic inflammation. (Beer, B. 1, p. 246, composition of which is elsewhere described (see Lachrymal Organs), and bathing the eye Respecting the prognosis and indications in with the same application, to which a little of the e second stage of ophthalmy in general, and vinous tincture of opium i;> added. Should this idiopathic cases in particular, Beer offers remedy fail in checking the progress ot the any interesting remarks. He observes, that ulcers, or pustules, Beer recommends the addi- hen ophthalmy has reached its second stage, tion of acetate of lead. 4. And, says the same hich may be known by circumstances already author, when no decided amendment is produced, .ferred to in the preceding columns, it must be within twenty-four hours, the suppurating points ear, that the above indications are no longer must be touched, once, or twice a day, according alid, and the fulfilment of them would destroy to the urgency of the danger, with a camel-hair ie eye. pencil, dipped either in a watery solution of In the second stage, every thing which has opium, or the vinous tincture of opium. In the tendency to produce further weakness of the worst cases, he even directs Hoffman’s balsam, ye must be avoided, or suppuration will be the vitae, naptha, or the Peruvian balsam to be mixed onsequence: the first indication, therefore, with the vinous tincture of opium, pecified by Beer, is to let the eye be cautiously But, Beer observes, that when these remedies xposed according as its tendency 'will allow, to have been too precipitately employed, and any is wonted stimuli again. 1. By letting fresh, granulations, or excrescences form, the treatment ry, and, if possible, a warmish air, have free ac- must be less active, and then these new pro- ess to the organ. 2. By exposing the eye to ductions will frequently recede of themselves; s much light (not of a reflected description) as but, if they should not do so, they may be re- an be borne, not only without difficulty, but moved with burnt alum, or caustic. (B, 1, rith pleasure. 3. By moderately exercising the 252.) rgan, especially, in the inspection of agreeable The third rule, laid down by Beer, in the iversified objects; a plan, which is of infinite treatment of the Second stage of ophthalmy, ervice, when the eyeball itself has been af- cautions the practitioner not to apply the caustic ected. or the knife, to any of the morbid changes. The second indication, proposed by Beer in which either originate during the first stage, and he second stage of ophthalmy in general, is to continue in the second, or make their first ap- ipply tonic remedies, particularly those of a pearance at the period of suppuration, as, for •olati/e hind, to the eye, which arc to be dis- instance, opacities of the cornea, eversion of one -ontinued in the event of suppuration. 1. or both eyelids, &c. However, as exceptions to Beer praises the application of well warmed this advice, Beer adverts to the treatment of men compresses, which, if necessary, may be new-growths under the circumstances above spe- sprinkled with camphor; or, in urgent cases, he cified, and to that of abscesses of the eyeball, uses little bags of aromatic herbs and camphor; where the matter is of an unhealthy quality, and a practice, in which I am disposed to think sur- so copious as to make an opening advisable, geons here will have little or no confidence. 2. which practice, however, as a general one, he However, when the eye is too irritable to bear condemns. The other morbid changes, already