WOUNDS. HOI riaca alone, either externally or internally ap- plied ; others common oil; u third set used sti- mulants, such as the strongest spirituous liquors; whilst others, on the contrary, tried every dif- ferent kind of sedative. In short, there is hardly any active kind of medicine that has not been tried as a cure in this disease; while, at the same time, it is certain that, under all the va- rieties of application, none of the patients died.” Hence, Fontana concluded, that none of the re- medies had any effect in curing the disease. Later observations, however, tend to raise our hopes, that a medicine is now known, which really seems to possess considerable efficacy against the bite, even of a very formidable kind of snake. From some facts, recorded in Dr. Russell’s History of Indian Serpents, on the authorities of Mr. Duffin and Mr. Ramsay, it appears, that the Tanjore pill, of which arsenic is the chief ingredient, is exhibited with consider- able success in India after the bites of venemous serpents: this information led Mr. Chevalier to propose the lair trial of arsenic. Mr. Ireland, surgeon to the 60th regt. had formerly heard Mr. Chevalier recommend the trial of arsenic, and he was resolved to make the experiment whenever an opportunity offered. On his arrival in the island of St. Lucia, he was in- formed, that an officer, and several men, belong- ing to the 6Sth regiment, had died from the bites of serpents, supposed to be the coluber carinatus of Linnaeus. The reader will find some interesting account of the serpent, here alluded to, in a tract, which I have lately read, entitled Monographic du Trigonocephale dcs Antilles, ou Grand Vipere Fer-de-Lauce dc la Martinique, par A. Mo- reau de Jonties, 8no. Paris, 1816. Mr. Ireland also learnt, that every thing had been tried by the attending medical men to no purpose, as all the patients had died, some in six, and others in about twelve hours from their receiving the wound. A case, however, soon came under Mr. Ire- land’s own observation, and, as nothing, that had been done before, seemed to have been of any service, he was determined to give arsenic a full trial. “ Jacob Course, a soldier in the York light infantry volunteers,- was bitten in the left hand, and the middle finger was so much lacerated, that I found it necessary to amputate it imme- diately at the joint with the metacarpal bone. “ 1 first saw him about teu minutes after he had received the wound, and found him in a tor- pid, senseless state; the hand, arm, and breast of the same side were much swelled, mottled, and of a dark purple, and livid colour. He was vo- miting, and appeared as if much intoxicated. Pulse quick and hard: he felt little or no pain during the operation. “ The wound being dressed, and the patient put to bed, I ordered a cathartic clyster, and the following medicine to be taken immediately. Jy.. Liquor. Arsenic. 3'j* Tinct, Opii gt. x. Aq. Menth. Pip. fjiss; which was added to half an ounce of lime juice, and as it produced a slight effervescence, it was given in that state; this remained on his stomach, and was repeated every half hour for four successive hours. In the mean time, the parts were frequently fo- mented with common fomentations, and rubbed with a liniment composed of 01. Terebinth, ^ss. Liquor. Ammon, ijss. and 01. Oliv. ijss. The catliartic clyster was repeated twice, when the path nt began to be purged ; and [the arsenical medicine was now discontinued. He had be- come more sensible when touched, and from that time, he gradually recovered his faculties; he took some nourishment, and had several hours sleep. “ The next day, he appeared very weak, and fatigued ; the fomentation and liniment were re- peated. The swelling diminished gradually; the natural colour and feeling returned, and, by pro- per dressings to the wound and attention to the state of his bowels, he soon recovered and returned to his duty.'" Mr. Ireland recites about four other examples, in which arsenic was exhibited with similar suc- cess. It deserves particular notice, that the liquor arsenici employed by Mr. Ireland was prepared according to Dr. Fowler’s prescription, which directs sixty-four grains of arsenic, and as many of the fixed vegetable alkali, to be dissolved in a sand heat, and the solution to be made an exact pint, so that two drachms contain one grain of arsenic in solution. (See Mcd-Chir. Trans. Vol. p. 393, Sfc.) Wounds of the Thorax.—The thorax is a cavity, of an irregularly oval figure, bounded in front by the sternum, laterally by the ribs, pos- teriorly by the vertebrae of the back, above by the clavicles, and below by the diaphragm, a very powerful muscle, which forms a kind of partition between the cavity of the thorax, and that of the abdomen. The diaphragm is not stretched across, in a straight direction, from one side of the chest to the other; but, on the contrary, descends much further in some places, than in others. If the cavity of the thorax be opened, by a transverse section, about the middle of the sternum, the diaphragm appears, on examination, to be very prominent and convex towards its centre, while it sinks downward at its edges, towards all the points, to which the muscle is attached. At its anterior, and most elevated part, it is fixed to the ensiform cartilage, whence, descending ob- liquely to the right and left, it is inserted, on both sides, into the seventh rib, all the lower ribs, and, lastly, into the lower dorsal vertebra?. According to this description, it is obvious, that the cavity of the thorax has much greater depth and capacity behind, than in front; a circum- stance, which surgeons ought to be well aware of, or else they will be liable to give most erro- neous opinions, concerning wounds of the chest. For instance, a practitioner, deficient in anato- mical knowledge, might imagine, that a weapon pushed from above downward, into the front of the chest, could never reach the lungs, alter having penetrated the cavity of the abdomen. It is a fact, however, that no instrument could pass in this direction, even some inches below the highest part of the abdomen, without entering the chest. The whole cavity of the thorax is lined with a membrane, narocjl the pleura, which is every where adherent to the bones, which form the pa- rietes of this cavity, atid to the diaphragm. Each side of the thorax has a distinct pleura-