9(58 SCHOPHULA. young people, there will sometimes be a predis- position to scrophula; and that, in such subjects, buboes will more readily become scrophulous. (P. 27.) In short, it was one of Mr. Hunter’s opinions, and probably a most correct one, that the venereal disease is capable of calling into action such susceptibilities as are remarkably strong, and peculiar to certain constitutions and countries ; and that, as scrophula is predominant in this country, some effects of other diseases may partake of a scrophulous nature. (P. 96.) Mr. Hunter, speaking of venereal buboes, men- tions his having long suspected a mixed case, and adds, “ I am now certain that such exists. I have seen cases, where the venereal matter, like a cold, or fever, has only irritated the glands to disease, producing in them scrophula, to which they were predisposed. In such cases, the swell- ings commonly arise slowly, give but little pain, and seem to be rather hastened in their progress, if mercury is given to destroy the venereal dis- position, Somo come to suppuration while under this resolving course; and others, which pro- bably had a venereal taint at first, become so indolent, that mercury has no effect upon them; and, in the end, they get well of themselves, or by other means.” (P.269.) For such buboes, Mr. Hunter used to recommend sea-bathing; and, in case of suppuration, poultices made of sea-water. In the words of a well-informed Professor, scrophula readily forms an alliance with almost every morbid affection, occurring either from external injury, or from internal disease; it modifies tho appearance of other diseases, and- seems to convert them gradually into its own nature. Indeed, there are few of the local in- flammatory affections, which occur in this coun- try, in which the symptoms and effects of these affections, and the operation of the food and remedies employed for their cure, are not more or less modified by the degree of scrophulous dia- thesis, which prevails in the constitution of those who are affected by them. The scrophulous dia- thesis, wherever it exists, usually gives more or less of a chronic character to local inflammatory affections. (.Thomson's Lectures, p. 131.) It has been the fashion ofiate years to ascribe the origin of a vast number of diseases to dis- order of the digestive organs, little trouble be- ing generally taken to consider, with any im- partiality, whether the derangement of those organs may not be rather the common effect, than the common cause, of so many various dis- eases. Numerous circumstances tend to per- petuate the delusion, into which young practi- tioners are falling upon this topic. They see various diseases, attended with dyspepsia, flatu- lence, loss of appetite, costiveness, and a torpid state of the bowels; they observe that such dis- eases and the latter complaints of the alimentary canal, generally diminish together; that, when the functions of the stomach and bowels are de- ranged, an)' other diseases, which thepatient may be labouring under, either grow worse, or are re- tarded in their amendment; and, lastly, the treat- ment, to which the theory leads, improves 'the health, by rectifying, the state of the alimentary canal, and tho sore, tumor, or other complaint, in »t... „„,i ,..m, »i.„ ni,l nftime, nature, mid however, simple, safe, and beneficial the practice may be, and plain as the facts are, which lead to it, there is no proof, that the other disease was truly a consequence of the disorder of the diges- tive organs. The latter symptom, I believe, is very frequently an effect mistaken for a cause, and perhaps, always so, in relation to scrophula. Besides, if it were to be assumed, (as indeed it actually is,) that, in scrophula “ there always is more or less disorder of the digestive organs, and primarily of no other important function," I do not see that we advance one step nearer the truth ; because, as the same cause is generally assigned, by gentlemen attached to this theory, for a vast number of other cases, we still remain in the dark, as to the circumstances, which make so many complaints of_ different kinds spring from one and the same cause. These circum- stances, though buried in silence, are still the mystery—still the secret, which is desired; and, if it be answered, that the effect will only happen in particular constitutions, then we are brought back at once to the point, from which we first started, viz. that scrophula is a disease depend- ing upon some unknown peculiarity of constitu- tion, congenital or acquired, and capable of be- ing excited into action by various causes, as cli- mate, mode of living, &c. However, lest I may not have attached sufficient importance to the doctrine of gastric disorder, being the cause of scrophula, I feel pleasure in referring, for the arguments in its support, to the writings of Mr. Abernethy, Dr. Carmichael, and Mr. Lloyd, whose sentiments appear highly commendable, as far as they tend to teach surgeons, rather to place confidence in means calculated to improve the health in general, as the most likely mode of benefiting sorophulous patients, than to encour- age foolish dreams about new specifics for the distemper. Thus far, I can follow these gentle- men safely; but no farther, except as a sceptic. However, perhaps, none of the believers in the effect of disorder of the digestive organs mean to say, that such disorder is any thing more than one of the many exciting causes of scrophula; and with this qualification, their theory may, or may not be correct. It is the doctrine of Alibert, and indeed of nearly all writers: “ ce sont, les vices de la puissance digestive, qui preparent de loin les scrophules. Rien n’ influe davantage sur leur developpement que la mauvaise qualite des alimens, Ac.” (Nosol. NaturcUe, p. 449.'— “ Ajoutez a cet cause le sejour dans les habita- tions malsaiues.” But, every explanation, even of exciting causes remains unsatisfactory, as long as we find children living in the same air, under the same roof, and feeding and sleeping together, and clothed also exactly alike, yet, only one or two of them become scrophulous, while all the rest continue perfectly free from the disease. Here, then, we are again compelled to return to predisposition, constitution, diathesis, and a con- genital tendency to the complaint, as a solution of the difficulty. In short, then, respecting the etiology of scrophula, little is known, except that certain constitutions probably have a con- genital disposition to the disease; that such dis- position may probably be increased, or dimi- nished, by the operation of climate, mode of life, nor* R-r ■ and that irritations a thousand kinds