1 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 5:33 Ml -•'! I I . r I ."-i* has been abundant, the l ight rules and .principles of practice are not yet laid down in the best mo- dern works. As soon as the requisite incisions are made, and foreign bodies extracted, the prime objects in the treatment of gun-shot wounds are accom- plished, and the rest is, in reality, not different from the surgery of other wounds. With regard to probing gun-shot wounds ; when it is evident that the shot has passed out, and no particular object can be fulfilled with the probe, it is often better to dispense with such examination, at least till suppuration has come on. Introducing any instrument is ge- nerally productive both of pain and irritation. But when the ball, or any other extraneous substance, has lodged in the wound, and its situation is not immediately evident, it will often be advisable to search for it at once, in order that it may be extracted, if its situation will allow, before inflammation begins. The sur- geon, therefore, considering all the circumstances which can assist him in forming a reasonable conjecture of the course of the wound, must give to a probe that curvature, or form, which he •thinks most likely to pass readily along it, and must then proceed to make the examination. But, when this is very painful, and the course of the wound obscure, it will often be better to de- sist, and renew the search when suppuration lias taken place, in which stage it can be undertaken with more ease, and a greater prospect of success. When gun-shot wounds are inflamed, the ten- derness and swelling of the parts are peculiarly strong reasons against painful probings, or efforts to extract foreign bodies, as long as this state lasts. (See Chevalier’s Treatise on Gun- sho Wounds, p. 67—68, Edit. 3.) There is no fact in the practice of surgery better established, than that the cramming of narrow stabs and gun-shot wounds with lint is particularly hurtful. The only possible reason lor doing so in the latter cases must be to keep the orifice of the wound from healing up, and confining extraneous bodies, matter, &c. The apprehension of this happening at first is quite unfounded; for the inside of the mouth of the in- jured part is often lined with a slough or eschar, which must necessarily be detached before the k parts can heal. The first dressings, therefore, should be quite superficial, and of a mild unirri- tating nature. On the field of battle, indeed, it would be well for many of the wounded, if the surgeon were to content himself with applying | simple pledgets, and covering the part with linen * wet with i old water. This method would prove much more beneficial, than the hasty and indis- criminate use of adhesive plasters, sutures, and tight bandages, from the bad effects of which thousands of soldiers have lost limbs, or lives, which, under more judicious treatment, might have been saved. Hunter used to employ fo- mentations, pledgets of simple ointments, and, frequently, over the latter an emollient poultice. In the suppurative stage of gun-shot wounds, poultices are generally allowed to be the best applications. Possessing these ideas, I cannot altogether approve the following directions, though they are certainly Letter, than are given in many sur- gical books. “ A small bit of soft lint may be placed lightly between the lips of the wound, in order to keep it from closing. In some instances, it should be introduced a little beyond the lips, in order to conduct off the fluids effused, and to prevent vrcgular adhesions from forming ncur the surface during the inflammatory stage ; as these would impede the direct exit of the discharge. But the wound is not to be filled with lint, much less crammed with it. A pledget of some sim- ple ointment being then laid on, with tow or cloths to receive the discharge, and these pre- vented from coming off by a bandage loosely ap- plied, the patient may be put to bed, and so placed, if possible, as to keep the orifice of the wound dependent.” (Cheoaber, p. J25—126.) The reasons for what I consider objectionable, namely, introducing lint on first dressing the wound, are too frivolous to need comment. In considering the effects of poultices and cold applications upon gun-shot wounds, Mr. Guthrie expresses his decided preference to the use of cold water:—“ The inflammation is, in some instances, materially prevented, in many greatly controlled, and, in almost all, very much subdued by it, whilst the suppurative process is not impeded in the generality of cases, in a degree sufficient to interrupt the subsequent one of gra- nulation. In all simple cases of gun-shot wounds, that is to say, flesh wounds, in persons of a healthy constitution, a piece of lint, which has been dipped in oil, or on which some ointment has been spread, is the best application at first to prevent irritation, with two slips of adhesive plaster placed across to retain it in its situ- ation. A compress, or some folds of linen, wetted with cold water, are then to be applied over it, and kept constantly wet and cold, even by the use of ice, if it can be obtained, and be found comfortable to the feelings of the patient. A roller is of no use, except to prevent the com- press from changing its position during sleep, and is, therefore, at that period useful; but, as a surgical application, it is useless, if not posi- tively injurious, because it binds a part, which ought, to a certain extent, to swell, and by pres- sure causes irritation. Rollers ought not to be applied surgically until after some days have elapsed, and it is inexpedient to employ them in the field of battle, even if they were useful, ex- cept where some parts are to be kept in position; because, when they are applied in the fn^t in- stance, they soon become stiff and bloody, are lor the most part cut, and are seldom preserved after the first dressing, so as to become useful at the period, when the surgical application of a roller is indispensable ” To this just censure of the wrong employment of rollers, Mr. Guthrie annexes some remarks, in which lie enters into a general condemnation of poultices, as applications to gun-shot wounds, believing, that, in many in- stances, cold water may be employed with the best effect, during the whole progress of the cure. These remarks are tempered with the following admission :—“ Cold water is not, how- ever, an infallible, or even always an advan- tageous remedy: there are many persons, with whom cold applications do not agree; there are more, with whom they disagree after a certain period; and, in cither case, they should not be