AMPUTATION. ioi contact, a few sutures were used. The dressings were light and superficial, and the limb was put in a tin case, sufficiently long to receive the whole of it, from the ankle to the insertion of the gluteus muscle. I shall not follow Mr. Park throughout the treatment. Suffice it to remark, that the case gave him a great deal of trouble, and that it was attended with many embarrassing circum- stances, arising chiefly from the difficulty of keeping the limb in a fixed position, the great depth of the wound, and the abscesses and sinuses, which formed in the part. On the other hand, however, the first symptoms were not at all dangerous. But, the patient was obliged to keep his bed nine or ten weeks, and it was many months more before the cure was com- plete. The man afterwards went to sea, and did his duty very well, so useful was his limb to him. Subsequently to the publication of the letter to Mr. Pott, another excision of the knee was done by Mr. Park, on the 22d of June, but the event was unsuccessful, as the patient lingered till the 13th of October, and then died. About the same time that Mr. Park made his proposal, P. F. Moreau, a French surgeon, wrote in favour of a similar method. It only seems necessary to notice here the difference in Moreau’s plan of operating from that adopted by our countryman. Moreau, the son, who has published the account, observes, that the mul- tiplicity of flaps is unnecessary, as two answer every purpose; and he deems Mr. Park’s di- rection to remove the olecranon, if this be free from caries, at least useless. Moreau, junior, operated on the elbow as follows: with a dis- secting scalpel he cut down to the sharp edge, or spine of the inner condyle of the os humeri, about two inches above its tuberosity; and, directed by the spine, he carried the incision down to the joint. He did the same on the other side, and then connected the two wounds by a transverse incision, which divided the skin and the tendon of the triceps, immediately above the olecranon. The flap was dissected from the bone, and held up out of the way, by an as- sistant. The flesh which adhered to the front of the bone, above the condyles, was now separated, care being taken to guide tbe point of the instru- ment with the fore-linger of the left hand, and, when the handle of the scalpel could be passed through between the flesh and the bone, M. Moreau allowed it to remain there, and sawed the bone through upon it. The removal of the piece of bone was next finished, by detaching it from all its adhesions. The removal of the heads of the radius and ulna, remaining td be done, was more difficult, and the first flap being insufficient, it became necessary to make another. The lateral incision, at the outer side of the arm, was extended downwards, along the ex- ternal border of the upper part of the radius. The head of the radius was separated from the surrounding parts; its connexion with the ulna destroyed, and a strap of linen was introduced l*ctween the bones, in order to keep the flesh out of the way of the saw. The radius was sawn through, '•car the insertion of the biceps, which was fortu- nately preserved. Some remaining medullary cells, filled with pus, were removed with a gouge. The ulna was now exposed, by extending the lateral incision on the inner side of the arm. 1 bus another flap was made, and detached from the back part of the fore-arm, and that portion of the bone which it was wished to remove. The bone, being separated from every thing that adhered to it, and a strap of linen put round it to protect the flesh, about an inch and a half of it was sawn oftj measuring from the tip of the olecranon, downwards. A few diseased me- dullary cells were taken away with the gouge. Two or three vessels were tied, and the flaps were brought together with sutures. In a fort- night this man became so well, that he was allowed to go wherever he pleased, with his arm supported in a case. The arm was at first powerless, but it slowly regained its strength, and the man could ultimately thrash corn and hold the plough with it, &c. Seven months after another operation, per- formed in the same way as the preceding one, by Moreau the father, the patient was com- pletely cured, and two years after this period, the flexion of the fore-arm on the arm, was very distinct. In another case, only one longitudinal incision, and a transverse one, were made, the flap being of course triangular. The patient got well in six weeks, and in three months more joined his regiment. In all Moreau’s cases, the flexion and ex- tension of the fore-arm were preserved, which circumstance no doubt depended very much on the insertion of the biceps not being destroyed. After the excision of the knee, however, the bones grew together. Moreau, junior’s, method of operating differed from his father’s, inasmuch as the patient was in a recumbent, instead of a sitting, posture, and the os humeri sawn before it was dislocated. In a knee case, Moreau the father operated as follows:—He made a longitudinal incision on each side of the thigh, between the vasti and the flexors of the leg, down to the bone. These incisions began about two inches above the condyles of the femur, and were carried down along the sides of the joint, till they reached the tibia. They were united by a trans- verse cut, which passed below the patella, down to the bone. The flap was raised; but the patella attached to it, being diseased, was dissected out. The limb was then bent so as to bring the condyles of the femur into view. As it was desired to cut them from the body of the bone, before dislocating them, every thing adhering to them behind, where they joined the body of the bone, was separated, and, at that place the fore-finger of the left hand was passed through, in order to press back the flesh from the bone, while the saw was used. The knee having been bent, Moreau drew the cut piece towards him, and easily detached it from the flesh and ligaments. The head of the tibia was laid bare by an incision, nearlv eighteen lines long, made on the spine of that’bone. The first lateral incision on the outer side of the knee, was extended nearly as far down on the head of the Jjbu a. Thus were obtained one flap, which adhered to the flesh filling up the interosseous space, aud another triangular flap, formed of the skin,