ANC swellings and accesses on tho outside of a joint, may also induce anchylosis. In short, every thing which keeps a joint long motionless may give rise to the affection, which is generally the more com- plete the longer such causes have operated. When a bone is fractured near a joint, the limb is kept motionless by the apparatus, during the whole time requisite for uniting the bones. The subsequent inflammation also extends to the articulation, and attacks the ligaments and surrounding parts. Sometimes, these only be- come more thickened and rigid: on other occa- sions, the inflammation produces a mutual ad- hesion of the articular surfaces. Hence fractures so situated, are more serious, than when they occur at the middle part of a bone. Though common fractures leave, after their cure, a cer- tain degree of stiffness in the adjacent joints, this is different from true anchylosis ; it merely arises from the inactivity, in which the muscles and articular surfaces have been kept for a time, and may generally be cured by gradually exercising, and increasing the motion of the limb. The position of an anchylosed limb is a thing of great importance. When abscesses form near the joints of the fingers, and the tendons mortify, the fingers should be bent, that they may anchy- lose in that position, which renders the hand much more useful, than if the fingers were per- manently extended. On the contrary when there is danger of anchylosis, the knee should always be kept as straight as possible. The same plan is to be pursued, when the head of the thigh bone is dislocated in consequence of a diseased hip. When the elbow cannot be prevented from becoming anchylosed, the joint should always be kept bent. No attempt should ever be made to cure, though every possible exertion should often be made to prevent, a true anchylosis. The at- tempt to prevent, however, is not always proper, for many diseases of joints may be said" to termi- nate, when anchylosis occurs. W hen the false, or incomplete anchylosis is apprehended, measures should be taken to avert it. Ihe limb is to be moved as much as the state of the soft parts will allow. Boyer re- marks, that this precaution is much more ne- cessary in affections of the ginglymoid articula- tions, than of the orbicular ones, on account of the tendency of the former to become anchylosed, by reason of the great extent of their surfaces, the number of their ligaments, and the naturally limited degree of their motion. Tiie exercise of the joint promotes the secre- tion of the synovia, and the grating first per- ceived in consequence of the deficiency of this fluid, soon ceases. A certain caution is ne- cessary in moving the limb: too violent motion might create pain, swelling, and inflammation, and even caries of the heads of the bones. It is by proportioning it to the state of the limb, and increasing its extent daily, as the soft parts yield and grow supple, that good effects may be de- rived from it. (See Boyer Mai. ties Os, Tom. 2.) -ihe use of embrocations, and pumping cold water on the joint, every morning, have great power in removing thejstirt’ness of a limb remain- mg after the cure of fractures, dislocations, &c. Idureduced dislocations are not always followed ANE 107 by anchylosis. Nature often forms a new joint, especially in persons of the lower order, who are obliged to move their limbs a great deal, in order to obtain a livelihood. The surrounding cellular substance becomes condensed, so as to form, around the head of the luxated bone, a membrane serving the purpose of a capsular ligament. The muscles, at first impeded in their action, become so habituated to their new state, that they re- sume their functions. This is particularly the case with bones which move in every direction, and have roundheads; but, in ginglymoid joints, the heads of the bones are only imperfectly dis- located, and the motion is greatly restrained by the extent of surface; while some of the numerous ligaments are only sprained, not ruptured. These causes promote the occurrence of anchylosis. Anchylosis may follow contusions of the joints, and such shocks, as the articular surfaces ex- perience in leaping, or falling on the feet, from great heights. This is more likely to happen, when the inflammatory symptoms, resulting from such violence, have not been properly counter- acted by bleeding, and other general remedies. Sprains, which violently twist the joints, very often, on this account, cause an anchylosis, especially, when the inflammation has long hindered such joints from being at all moved. When diseases of joints end in a complete anchylosis, the occurrence is to be looked upon as a very favourable one. In fact, it is as much a means of cure, as the formation of callus is for the union of broken bones. The disease of the vertebrae, described by Pott, is cured, as soon as the bones anebylose, nor can the patient be considered well, before this event has taken place. W. H. Muller, de Anchy- Insi, Lugd. 1707. L'F.ncyclopedie Methodique, Parlie Chirurgicule, Tom. J. art. Anchylose. J. L. Petit, Traite tics Mai. tP Os. T. 2. J. T. van de Wynpersse, de Ancylosens Pathologia and Curatione; singularibits observationibus et fin. ill 4to. Lugd. 1783. Gentleman’s Magazine, 1787, universal anchylosis, ligaments ossified; Wurz, Wundarzv. p. 224, following the removal of the patella; Sandifort Exercit. Acad. p. 1, $fc., an- chylosis of the occiput with the atlas, and of the atlas with ihe dcntalus ; Sandifort, Obs. Pathol, anchylosis ofiliejaw. Dumas, Rccueil Pdriodique de la Socicte de Med. T. 10, p. 30, and T. 13, p. 352. Hennen’s Principles of Military Surgery, p. 161, <%c. Ed. 2. The examples of general anchylosis are numerous: Plouquet refers to Columbus de Re Anatomica ; Connor de stupendo Ossittm coulitu, Oxon. 1695; Deslandes in Mint, de l' Acad, des Sciences, 1716'; Frank, Reisenach, Paris, London, §<p. 127, anchylosis of all the joints except those of the lower jaw ; Olivier, in Joum. tie Mid. T. 12, p. 273'; Voigt Mag.fiir den Neuestcn Zustand dcr Naturknnde, 4 B. p. 412; Portal. Cours d’ Anal. Med. T. 1, p. 14; Phil. Trans. No. 461; J. C. Smith, Nat. Hist. Hibernia Comit. 1744. Job a Mcchrcn’s Obs. C. 64, p. 297. Cullisen’s Systr.ma Chir. Hodiemtv, 1.2. p. 699. edit. 1800. Boyer Mol. des Os, Tom. 2, ct Traite' des Maladies Cbirurgicales, 1. 4, p. •'m3. Verdue Traite ties Bandages, chap. 35, /’• I <2. Richer an d’s Nosoer. Chir. T. 3. p. 223, edit. 4- ANEURISM, or Anuukysm, (fromnrv(uva-, to dilate.) The tumours which are formed bj a