HERNIA. scription is examined, the otiier marks of an ex- ternal inguinal hernia are associated with the sudden formation of the disease. In this quick- manner, the congenital hernia, \yhich is one of the external cases, frequently arises. The in- ternal inguinal hernia is also observed mostly to take place very suddenly, yet only after violent occasional causes. 6. A preternatural form of the body of the her- nial sac, Hesselbach remarks, is particularly seated in the sheath of the spermatic cord, and can never happen in the internal scrotal hernia; for, it is only in external cases, that the above sheath is ever converted into the hernial sac. Hesselbach here refers to the partial contraction, often noticed at the lower part of the above sheath in cases of congenital hernia; a circum- stance, which is always discovered previously to the business of dividing the ring. In adults an external inguinal; or scrotal her- nia, on the right side, contains some of the ileum, and; when the swelling is large, it may include the ccecum, and sometimes a piece of omentum. In one child, ten weeks old, and in another still younger, the appendix vermiformis was pro- truded and connected hy a natural band to the posterior side of the peritonaeum. When, in these ruptures of the right side, the ccecum, or, in those of the left, the colon are met with closely adherent to the hinder side of the hernial sac, the adhesion is not to be looked upon as the effect of disease, since it is the perfectly natural connexion of those bowels with the peritonaeum. On the left side, the parts most commonly pro- truded, are the colon and omentum. With regard to the internal inguinal hernia, the place of its first protrusion has been already described. The protruded peritonaeum and vis- cera, according to Hesselbach’s account, pass from behind straight forwards, between the ' fibres of what he names the internal inguinal li- gament, and the fleshy fibres of the internal ob- lique muscle : they then pass, at the inner side'of the spermatic cord, out of the abdominal ring, where the hernia presents a circular globular swelling, suddenly formed in consequence of some violent effort. The neck of the hernial sac is very short; shorter, than it can ever be in an external inguinal hernia, and, when the tumor is of the above shape, the passage through which it passes is annular, narrower in some instances, than others, and its margin is tendinous. From the few cases, which Hesselbach has seen of this form of the disease, he is led to conjecture, that the hernial sac is rarely so large as in the external inguinal hernia. (P. 41.) The earlier dissections made by Hesselbach, led him to sup- pose, that, in the internal inguinal hernia, the opening, through which the protrusion happens, is always annular, and the swelling in front of the ring"globular; but subsequent cases, which he has met with, have informed him, that the open- ing is frequently sloping and longish, in which circumstance, the resemblance of the tumor to that of the external bubonocele with a shortened neck, is such, that, the only mark of distinction- between the two cases is the position of the Sper- matic cord. In females, even this criterion is of course deficient. (Hesselbach, p. 5 i.) I hough individuals of almost every age are subject to in- ternal bubonoceles, they are much less common, than external cases. According to Hesselbach, they may be known by the following characters. I. The swelling, formed by the body of the her- nial sac, immediately in front of the abdominal ring. 2. The situation of the spermatic cord. 3. That of the epigastric artery. 1. The neck of the hernial sac, besides being very short, does not, likethatofan external ingui- nal hernia, take an oblique direction, but advances straight from behind forwards through the ab- dominal ring, and as the body of the sac lies di- rectly over the neck, none of the swelling, formed by the distention of the latter part, can be felt. Nor does any other turnor, produced by the body a hernial sac, ever cause a circular spherical swelling directly before the abdominal ring. The situation of the neck of this kind of hernia must already apprise us, that the internal bubonocele is nearer, than the external, to the symphysis of the pubes. In women, the shape of the tumor is the only character, by which the case can be distinguished. (Hesselbach, p. 43.) 2. After what has been already stated, respect- ing the situation of the spermatic cord in the in- ternal inguinal hernia, I shall merely notice one or two observations of Hesselbach. The cord lies either upon the outer side, or outer half of the forepart of the upper portion of the hernial sac, the blood-vessels forwards, and the vas deferens backwards. When the sac is adherent to the whole length of the cord, the testis is not situ- ated under the fundus of the sac, as in the exter- nal scrotal hernia, but either at the forepart or outer side of the body of the sac. The hernial sac, as far as the abdominal ring, is excluded from the common peritonaeal covering of the spermatic cord, but, at this opening, it descends between the cord and the internal thin part of the sheath of the cremaster, which, however is some- what stronger towards the front and outer side of the hernia, over which part alone the flesh}- fibres of the cremaster are spread. (P. 44.) 3. The epigastric artery always ascends ob- liquely inwards at the outer side of the neck of the hernial sac. Hesselbach has never seen but one case of internal bubonocele, in which there was a deviation from this rule. The example has been already mentioned, and was one in the epigastric artery arose from the obturatrix about an inch from the origin of this last vessel. The viscera, usually, contained in an internal inguinal, or strotal hernia, on the right side, are the lower part of the small intestines, and sometimes omentum ; oil the left, a part of the small in- testines, frequently omentum, and, when the tumor is large, the colon may .also protrude. A protrusion of the bladder may accompany the dis- ease, but that organ is of course always excluded from the cavity of the hernial sac. When the remains of the umbilical cord are situated more outward than usual, and lie over tiie centre of the space, at which the protrusion happens, an in- ternal bubonocele may be double, the prolapsus happening on each side of that ligamentous sub- stance, which is itself also pushed outwards. In consequence of the accidental presence of some very strong tendinous fibres at the centre of the fascia, called hy Hesselbach, the internal inguinal ligament, there may also he two distinct protru- sions, with separate hernial sacs (P 46.) When the surgeon, by n due consideration of