H88 WOUNDS. are furnished with teeth, two of which in the upper jaw are very different from the rest. These, which are about three lines long, are co- vered for about two-thirds of their length, with a membranous coat, or sheath, are of a curved shape, and articulated with the jaw-bone. When the animal is tranquil, and his mouth shut, they lie down with their points turned back- wards; but they instantly project forwards when it is irritated, and about to bite. In them are canals, which terminate by-a very narrow fissure, on their convex sides, a little- way from their points. The rest of these fangs is very hard and solid; and the canal is usually filled with a trans- parent, yellowish fluid, the poison of the viper. This venomous fluid is secreted by two glands, or rather by two clusters of glands, one on each side of the head, placed on the front of the fore- head, directly behind the eye-ball, under the muscle, which serves to depress the upper jaw. Thus the muscle cannot act without pressing upon them, and promoting the secretion of the fluid, which they are destined to prepare. A little bag, or vesicle, connected to the base of the first bone of the upper jaw, as well as to the end of the second, covers also the roots of the curved fangs, and forms a receptacle for the venom. The viper is chiefly found in hilly, stony, and woody districts, and seldom in flat, or marshy places. Il is not its nature to attack man, or large animals, except when provoked. Its venom is only employed for the destruction of smaller animals, such as mice, frogs, &c. which are usually swallowed whole, and to the digestion of which the venomous secretion is by some writers supposed to contribute. When, however, a viper is pursued, trod upon, taken hold of, or hurt, it immediately bites, and were it only on account of the shape of the fangs, the wound might be attended with very unpleasant effects; but it is certain of being so, by reason of the species of inoculation, which complicates it, and of which the mechanism is as-follows: When a viper is about to bite, it opens its month very wide. The two curved fangs, which had previously lain flat down, in the cavity of the membrane attached to their base, now pro- ject, and become perpendicular to the lower jaw. 'When the bite takes place, the poison is pro- pelled through the fangs, by the contraction of the muscles, and the closure of the mouth, and is injected into the wound with a force propor- tioned to its accidental quantity at the time, and the vigour of the animal. The bite of a viper is quickly followed by se- vere effects, some of which are local, and the others general; but it is with the former, that the disorder invariably commences. At the in- stant of the bite, the bitten part is seized with an acute pain, which rapidly shoots over the whole limb, and even affects the viscera, and internal organs. Soon afterwards, the wounded part swells and reddens. Sometimes, the tume- faction is confined to the circumference of the injury; but, most frequently, it spreads exten- sively, quickly affecting every part of the limb, and even the trunk itself. A sanious fluid is often discharged from the wound, around which ntilv,Ur*nrr» nri,p similar to tllOSC of a bum. siderably; the inflammatory tension changes into a doughy, or (edematous softness; the part grows cold; and the skin exhibits large livid spots, like those of gangrene. The general sym- ptoms also come on with celerity; the patient is troubled with anxiety, prostration of strength, difficulty of breathing, and cold profuse sweats. Vomiting frequently occurs, and sometimes copious bilious evacuations from the bowels. These symptoms are almost constantly attended with an universal yellowness, and excruciating pain about the navel. The effects occur in the same way in nearlv all subjects, with some differences depending upon the particular irritability and constitution of the patient; the high, or low, temperature of the atmosphere; the greater, or lesser, anger of the viper; the number of its bites ; the size of the reptile itself; the depth to which the fangs have penetrated ; and whether the bitten part happens to be one of great sensibility, or was naked, or not, at the time of the accident. In general, weak, pusillanimous persons, of bad con- stitutions, and loaded stomachs, suffer more sud- den and alarming ill consequences, than strong, healthy subjects, who view the danger without fear. Several bites are, of course, more dan- gerous than a single one; and, lastly, it has been remarked, that the venom of the viper is more active in summer, than the spring. A year or two ago, however, the newspapers recorded the death of a servant, from the inad- vertent application of the poison to a scratch on his hand, as he was examining the fangs and venomous organs of a viper perfectly torpid in the winter season. Severe, however, as the effects of the bite of a viper may be, they are far from being so perilous as they are commonly supposed to be. Indeed, the injury rarely proves fatal to an adult, even when inflicted by a viper in the middle of sum- mer, the period when the animal is most active and vigorous. Exceptions to this common belief, however, are upon record. Thus, in ihe year 181,6, a woman in France, aged sixty-four, was bit on the thigh by a viper, and died in thirty- seven hours, notwithstanding the internal use of the liquor ammonioe, and the enlargement of the wound, and cauterization of it with this fluid. In this case, it is to be observed, that an hour elapsed before any thing was done. (See A;i- iialcs du Cerclc Mcdicalc, T. 1, ]>. -13, 8m Paris, 1820.) Fontana, therefore, was not exactly correct m concluding, that the bite of an ordinary viper will not prove fatal to a full-grown person, nor even to a large dog, though it does so to smaller animals. Five bites from three strong and healthy vipers were not able to kill a dog weighing sixty pounds; and, as this dog was little more than a third part of the weight of an ordinary man, Fontana supposed, that a single bile could never be fatal to an adult. He says, that he had seen a dozen cases himself, and had heard of fifty more, only two of which ended fatally. Concerning one of these cases he could get no information ; the other pa- tient perished of gangrene, twenty days after the bite. The mortification began three days after the accident, the bitten place having been deeply