426 ERYSIPELAS. with the same kind of inflammatory crust, as blood taken away in other kinds of inflammation. It is proper, however, to notice, that prac- titioners are not universally agreed with respect to the nature of the pulse in erysipelas: it is, according to some, particularly Mr. Pearson, soft, frequent, and often irregular. But, if due attention be paid, this difference will be found to depend on par'ticularcircumstances. In the phleg- monous erysipelas, the pulse will always be fuller, than in the bilious. In the impure air of hospitals, and in all places, where the air is impregnated with carbonic acid gas, and other noxious gases, we find, that various affections decidedly in- flammatory, especially those which are attendant on wounds, affect the body, and the sanguiferous system in particular, in a very different manner from what is observed when the patients are living in a more salubrious air. All inflamma- tions assume a character more or less unfavour- able, in consequence of the influence of bad air. This is particularly striking in cases of erysipelas. In such instances, living in an impure atmo- sphere has a singular effect in augmenting the sense of weakness and dejection, which patients always experience in a certain degree; and, in these cases, it may even go so far as to produce a total alteration of the state of the pulse. But, if attention be paid to the disease in a situation where the atmosphere is not impregnated with putrid effluvia, it will be found to put on a very different shape. The symptoms of dejection, of nervous irritation, and of cerebral disturbance, are much less conspicuous, and the state of the pulse, especially in patients who have not been previously debilitated by other diseases, bears a great resemblance to that which takes place in an inflammation of the chest Besides bad air, many other circumstances, which do not even belong to the nature of erysi- pelas, may have a share in producing an altera- tion of its symptoms. Thus, while inflamma- tions of another kind, such as pleurisy and acute rheumatism, particularly affect robust persons, in whom the vital principle exists with a great deal of energy, erysipelas is prone to attack persons who are aged, or of delicate and depraved con- stitutions. The latter is also seen making its appearance as a symptom, in weakened parts, which have in a certain degree been deprived of their tone, as is the case with oedematous parts. It is not surprising, that, in these different cases, in which the tone of the system has already suf- fered, the state of the pulse, in persons affected with erysipelas, should seem different from what it is in individuals, who are more healthy and robust. Treatment of Erysipelas. The treatment of idiopathic erysipelas varies according to the causes, symptoms, complica- tions, and anomalies of the disease, and may be divided into internal and external. That the mode of relief must be very different in phlegmonous erysipelas from what it is in other varieties of the disorder, must be plain to every body, who has the least knowledge of the nature of diseases in general. Common cases of acute, or phlegmonous erysi ■ palas, yield to mild purgatives, and a light vege- table diet, with which remedies practitioners usually conjoin diaphoretics and the saline mix- ture. Whether bleeding is right, or not in this species of erysipelas, is a point, on which dif- ferent sentiments prevail. I believe, however, that venesection in the milder forms of the com- plaint is now pretty generally allowed to be un- necessary. Nor is it necessary to repeat bleed- ing in any case of erysipelas so frequently as is done in other inflammatory diseases. We ought to be guided, however, in this respect by the state of the pulse, and other symptoms, never forgetting the patient’s age, strength, and other important considerations. Caeteris paribus, the patient will bear bleeding better in the country, and in an open, pure air, than in a large city, and, especially, in an hospital. And, as has been truly remarked, unless there be a consider- able tendency to delirium, or coma, blood-letting can seldom be repeated with advantage, at least, in large towns. (Pearson's Principles of Surgery ; Bateman's Synopsis, p. 132, Ed. 3.) Instead of this practice the latter author judiciously re- commends local bleeding and blistering, but not upon, or very near the diseased sur/ace, whereby he avoids producing the troublesome sores, the frequency of which in former times, after taking blood from erysipelatous parts, led Mr. B. Bell to pronounce a general condemnation of the method. Alexander of Tralles, and Pare had a high opinion of the beneficial effects of plenty of fresh, cool air in cases of erysipelas, and the truth of this sentiment is acknowledged by all the best physicians and surgeons of the present day. Care should be taken also, that the patient be not covered with too much clothing; a piece of advice delivered by the first of the two pre- ceding writers. Cullen, whose theories induced him to regard erysipelas as a species of putrid fever, combined with evacuants the use of bark, wine, and other antiseptics. But, as Dr. Bateman correctly ob- serves, the administration of cinchona and opium, in cases of acute or phlegmonous erysipelas, is certainly unnecessary, and appears to be of equivocal safety. In the bilious erysipelas, whatever degree of heat or fever might exist, Desault gave, in the first in- stance, a grain of tartarized antimony dissolved in a considerable quantity of fluid; and the symptoms generally diminished as soon as the effects of the medicine had ceased. He had seen them en- tirely subside, although the medicine produced no other sensible alteration, in the animal economy, than an increase of the insensible perspiration and urine: sometimes the symptoms resisted these evacuations, and he was obliged to have recourse once or twice, or even more frequently, to the use of the emetic drink. When the erysi- pelas was cured, and the bitterness in the mouth and fever had subsided, two or three purges of cassia and manna, with a grain of emetic-tartar, were exhibited: during the cure, the patient was ordered to drink freely of a diluting ptisan, aci- dulated with oxymel: and as soon as the sym- ptoms were mitigated, the diet of the patient wTas allowed to be more nourishing and generous; for, when it was too spare, the case was remarked never to proceed so favourably, particularly in hospitals, where the air, generally speaking, is , unhealthy. In the bilious erysipelas, Desault observed, that the cases of the patients, who had