252 BURNS. cold is always pernicious, bringing on that tend- ctR'y to shiver, which should ever be continually guarded against, as being a most hurtful sym- ptom, and the forerunner of a violent sympathetic fever. To prevent this, the external heat should be kept at a high temperature, and the action of the whole system raised in as great a degree, as may be safe. By this means, the action of the whole is made to meet the increased action of the part, by which, the lessening of the increased action of the part to join the action of the whole, is rendered more easy. Thus, there is, says Ur. Kentish, an unity of intention by both the external and internal means, leading to the re- storation of the unity of action, and the cure is performed. It may be said, these circumstances can only take place when there is an increased action, and, when the parts are destroyed, other means should be used, such as emollients, &c. In replying to this remark, Dr. Kentish distinguishes burns into two kinds; one, in which the action of the part is only increased; and, another, in which some parts have increased action, while other parts are destroyed. It is of little consequence, says Dr. Kentish, what is applied to the dead part, as the detachment of an eschar depends upon the ac- tion of parts, which remain alive, and not upon what is applied to those, which are dead. Dr. Kentish remarks, however, that he never saw an instance of a burn, in which, though some parts were totally destroyed, there were not always other parts, in which there was only increased action. Now as our duty is always to save living parts, our mode of cure in the first instance, will always be the same, viz. to cure the parts, which have only an increased action, in the doing of which the dead parts will not be the worse, as their separation is a process of the system, which requires time, and, if the injury is to any extent, draws forth the joint efforts of the system, and, even, says Dr. Kentish, calls up all the energy of its powers, to violent fever. This state should be supported by every artificial aid, in order to bring the parts to suppuration, otherwise the subject falls in the contest: for, if the living parts have not the power to throw off’the dead, the dead will assimilate the living to themselves, and a morti- fication ensue. When the living parts have been preserved, (continues Dr. Kentish,) which according to this treatment, will be in Lhe course of two or three days, the dead parts will be more plainly observed, and the beginning of the process to throw them off will be commencing. This process must be assisted by keeping up the powers of the system, by stimulant medicines and a generous diet. The separation of the eschars will be greatly'promoted byr the application of the stimulus of heat, by means of cataplasms frequently renewed. These may be made of milk and bread, and some cam- phorated spirit, or any essential oils, sprinkled upon the surface. Such means need only be continued, until the suppuration is established, as then a different mode must be pursued. After Dr. Kentish had supported this system to a suppuration, he then found that, gradually desisting from his stimulant plan, diminished the secretion of pus, and wonderfully quickened the hcnling process. Thus we see, observes Dr. Kentish, the whole of the former treatment inverted. The most f gentle soothing means were used externally and | internally; these were continued until suppura-j tion took place; and then the system was excitedl j under an idea of supporting it, which not uufre-j I quently so fatigued the constitution, as to induce[I] a hectic fever. The present mode is the reverse I r ol this. When apart of the frame has been much I, excited, this part is not allowed to cease to act], for want of stimulus, but, is kept in action by an jjl adequate stimulus, which is gradually diminished, | j until the ordinary action returns. With the same j!! view, the internal means are highly stimulant tol l the whole system, which must be supposed to j i be in a natural state at the time of the accident. Thus increasing the action of the whole by j I strong stimuli, and decreasing the action of the j j part, by' lessening the stimuli, the desired end || will be more readily obtained : that is, an equi- : librium of action will be restored. When some parts are destroyed, there must be j others with increased action; and, in this case, j according to Dr. Kentish, the foregoing mode j| will be the best for restoring the living parts, and I promoting the separation of the dead ones. Sup- I puration having taken place, the exciting of the ■ system by any thing stimulant, either by food, or I medicine, should be cautiously avoided. Should I the secretion of pus continue too great, gentle l laxatives, and a spare diet, are indicated. If any' | part, as the eyres, for instance, remain weak, with .j a tendency to inflammation, topical bleedings, or small quantities of blood taken from the arm, are useful. For the purpose of defending the new skin, camphorated oil, or camphorated oil and lime water in equal parts, are good applications. Wounds of this kind heal very fast, when the di- j minution of pus is prevented, by attention to diet: if necessary to keep up the patients’ strength, i small doses of bark, taken two or three times a } day', in some milk, will answer that purpose, and I will not excite a quickening circulation, as wine, I ale, or spirits, are apt to do. By attention to J these principles, (continues Dr. Kentish,) I can I truly assert, that I have cured very manyexten- I sive and dangerous burns and scakls, in one, two, [ three, and four weeks, which in the former method 11 would have taken as many months; and some, II which I believe to have been incurable by the I former method. After explaining his principles, Dr. Kentish j takes notice of the several substances, which have commonly been employed. Of these be would chiefly' rely' on alcohol, liquor antnionise subcarbo- jl natis, aether, (so applied as to avoid the cooling ■ process of evaporation,) and spirit of turpen- | tine. In applying these, we are directed to proceed, as follows : the injured parts are to be bathed, two, or three times over, with spirits of wine, spirits of wine with camphor, or spirit of turpen- tine, heated by standing in hot water. After this, a liniment, composed of the common yellow basilicon, softened with spirit of turpentine, is to be spread on soft cloth, and applied. This lini- ment is to be renewed only once in twenty-four hours, and, at the second dressing, the parts are to be washed with proof spirit, or laudanum, made warm. When a secretion of pus takes place, milder applications must be made, till the cure is eliccted.