921 PIIY. PEN . t f tetter Dc Extirpatione Penis per Li ga- in ni, -Mo. Lips. 1810'. J. II. Thant, Hiss. ■ Vir-'ic Viriiis Statu sano ct morb. ejusdem •iprintis amputationc. B. G. Schreger's Chir. ersuche; Ncue Methodc den Penis zu Am- ctircit, BA. p. 242, 8vo. JVurnbcrg, 1801.) PENIS, CANCER OF. A wart, or a .bercle, on the prepuce, the frsenum, or the ■ms penis, is generally the first symptom, and often remains in a quiet state for many years, /hen irritated, however, it becomes painful, and llarges, sometimes enormously, in a very short inc.° At the same time, ulceration, and a dis- ■ arge of sanious fetid matter, take place. The >sease sometimes also occasions in the urethra .tulous openings, out of which the urine capes, and the lymphatic glands in the groin ay become affected as the disease advances. : lr. Pearson says, that “ cancerous excrescences ave a broad base, often more extensive than leir superficies ; they seem to germinate deeply urn within, or rather to be a continuation of ;ie substance of the part; and, in their pro- ressive state, the contiguous surface has a mor- al appearance.” Y hat Mr. P. considers as a l enereal wart, has a basis smaller than its sur- ace; its roots have rather a superficial attach- ment, and the contiguous parts have a natural :ppearance ip. 97). Such are this gentleman s marks of discrimination. We might question, owevcr, whether Mr. Pearson, notwithstand- -ng his great opportunities, ever saw a really vc- r:crcal wart. For many years past I have never i een any excrescences of this kind in ,St. Bar- tholomew's hospital, which truly required mer- ury for their cure, or which, when cured without :, were followed by any inconvenience. If my ? memory does not fail me, Mr. Abernethy also . lisbelieves in the doctrine of venereal warts. Foul, spreading, sloughy ulcers of the penis, : should be discriminated from cancer. It is vorthy of attention, that almost all the cases of .:ancer of the penis recorded by Mr. Hey were | mended with a congenital phymosis. The same complication also existed in another example, n which Boyer performed amputation of the penis in la Charite, on account of a cancerous iffection of the part. In the only two oppor- unities of doing this operation, which M. Roux mas had, the cases were likewise accompanied vith a natural phymosis. Hence, this author considers such a state of the prepuce as particu- arlv conducive to cancer of the penis, and ear- nestly enjoins surgeons to recommend their pa- tients to have the first inconvenience rectified, ' ,o that no risk of the other more serious affec- ion may be encountered. (See Parallele dc la C/iirurgie Angloisc, 8fc. p. 306, 307.) In two out of three cases, which were reported to be cancerous, and for which amputation was done under my notice, it did not appear, that any degree of phymosis existed. (See ‘ Pearson on Cancerous Complaints. Iletj's Practical Observations in Surgery. Roux, Voyage fait en Anglctcrrc en 1814, ou Par al- lele dc la Chir. Angloisc, §c. p. 306.) PERINEUM, FISTUL2E OF. (See list litre in Pcriiue.it.) PF/RNIO. (from or zart^a, the heel.) A chilblain, especially one on the heel. (Sec Chilblain.) PESSARY, (from zaterau:, to soften.) lhe intention of pessaries, among the old practition- ers, was to keep medicinal substances applied within the pudenda. They are now never made use of, except for preventing a prolapsus of the uterus or vagina, or for keeping up a very un- common kind of rupture, explained in the article Hernia. PHAGEDiE'NA. (from <fayw, to eat.) An ulcer, which spreads, and as it were eats away the flesh. Hence the epithet, phagedenic, so common among surgeons. For an account of the phagedeena gangranosa, see Hospital Gangrene. PHARYNGO'TOMY. (from <p«?vy|, the pharynx, and teju.vu>, to cut.) See (Esophago- tomy. PHARYNGO'TOMUS. (from $uxuy%, the throat, and to/jou an incision.) An instrument for scarifying the tonsils, and for opening ab- cesses about the fauces. It was invented by Petit, and is nothing more than a sort of lancet, which is inclosed in a sheath. By means of a spring the point is capable of darting out to a determinate extent, so as to make the necessary wound, without risk of injuring other parts. PHLEBO TOMY. (from pys-J., a vein, and te/iaviu, to cut.) The operation of opening a vein, for the purpose of taking away blood. See Bleeding. PHLE'GMON. (from pxr/u’, to burn.) Healthy inflammation. (See Inflammation.) PHLOGO SIS. (from pXoyoic, to inflame.) An inflammation. A flushing. PHRENITIS. (from (fgtvff, the diaphragm, supposed by the ancients to be the seat of the mind.) An inflammation of the brain. Phrensy. Inflammation of the brain is a frequent con- sequence of injuries of the head. The symptoms are an increased and disordered state of the sen- sibility of the whole nervous system ; the retina cannot bear the usual stimulus of light; the pu- pils are contracted; the pulse is frequent and small; the eyes are red and turgid, and the iris sometimes actually inflamed, ( War drop, Essays on the Morbid Anat. of the Eye, Vol. 2.), the countenance is flushed, and the patient is rest- less, mutters incoherently, and grows wild and delirious. Phrenitis is treated on the antiphlogistic plan. Copious bleedings, and other evacuations, are highly proper. Some of the blood should be taken from the temporal arteries. The skin ought to be kept moist with antimonials, and a counter- irritation should be excited on the scalp by blisters. PHY'MA. (from <pvw, to grow.) Tuber- cles comprehend eight genera, and we learn from Dr. Bateman, that, under the genus phyma, the late Dr. Willan intended to comprise the ter- minthus, the.epinyctis, the furunculus, and the carbuncle. (See Batemans Synopsis of Cu- taneous Diseases, p. 270, Edit. 8.) According to Pott, this term was formerly applied to an inflammation near the anus. See Anus, Ab- scesses of. PHYMO'SIS, or rather Phimosis, (from <pifxo;, a muzzle.) A case, in which the pre- puce cannot be drawn back, so as to uncover the glans penis. It is of two kinds, viz. accidental, and natural or congenital. Both the accidental