2/9 c a unis. in is very severe, opium is generally an essen- 1 remedy. The constitutional treatment is rv analogous to that of mortification, and, for is reason, I do not deem it necessary to en- •gC the present article, by expatiating on this rt of the subject. (See Mortification.) In many of the southern parts of Europe, a lisjoant "species of carbuncle, appears to be en- HR-, contagious,.and very often fatal. For an ounl of this form of the disease, I would par- ilarly advise the reader to consult Ricfterand’s •sogr. Chir. T 1, p. ccx, <£c. Edit 4, and rrey's Mi moires de Chinirgie Militaire, Tom. •). 104, A description of it was likewise reduced into the 4th edition of the First ncs of Surgery. JBromfield's Chirurgical set and Observations, Vol. 1. L'Encyclopedic •thodique, Partie Cliirurg. art. Anthrax, irson's Principles. Richter's Anfangsgr. der indarzn. B. 1. Boyer's Traiti des Maladies •rurgicales, T. 2. p. 50, $-c. CARCINOMA, (from xrepuvoj, a crab.) See a cer. CARIES, (from xnrtu, to abrade.) Caries disease of the bones, supposed to be very ana- ous to ulceration of the soft parts; and this iparison is one of great antiquity, having been le bv Galen. However, by the generality of i ancients, caries was not discriminated from I ' | I -rosis. ■ was from the surgeons of the eighteenth cen- -, that more correct opinions were derived re- ting caries. Until this period, writers had 3 little more, than mention the complaint and methods of treating it. Some new light was wn upon the subject by J. L. Petit, in his re- <s upon exostosis and caries, (illd/. des Os, l. Chap. 1G, p. 27.) But, as he only spoke of disorder, as one of the terminations of exos- ;, he has not entered far into the considera- of it. The best observations on caries were made by Dr. A. Monro, primus. (Edinb. 1. Es.uys, T. 5, art. 25.) This memoir con- 3 the earliest correct ideas of dry curies, or rds, which is rightly compared to mortifica- of the soft parts, and named gangrenous' cu- be bones, like other parts of the body, are rosed of arteries, veins, absorbent vessels, 2s, and a cellular texture; they are endued vitality; they are nourished, grow, waste, are red, and undergo various mutations, accord- to the age of the individual; and they are ct to diseases analogous to those of the wts. To the phosphate of lime, which is or less abundantly distributed in their tex- they owe all their solidity, and, perhaps, it the same earthy substance, that the differ- in their vital properties, and in their dis- , from those of the rest of the body, is to be •ed. In fact, this particular organization, nferior vitality of the bones, are generally )sed to account for the small number, pecu- haracter, and slow progress of their diseases. . des Svii nces Med. T. 4, p, 80.) 1 the bones are liable to caries; but those of ngy texture are more frequently attacked, such as are compact. Hence, the vertebrae; ;alus, and other Ixmes of the tarsus; those ie carpus; the sternum; the bones of the *» and the heads of the long bones, are often affected; and the bones of young persons are unquestionably more frequently' the seat of ca- ries, than those ol old subjects. In necrosis, the bone is entirely deprived of life; in caries, the vital principle exists, but a morbid action is going on, whereby the texture of the bone is altered, and rendered softer and lighter than natural. In the most common species of caries, a loose, fungous flesh grows out of the interstices, formed on the surface of the diseased bone, and bleeds from’the slightest causes. There is generally a sinus in the soft parts, which loads down to the caries, and emits a very fetid, dark-coloured sa- nies. These symptoms, however, as well as the tendency in the accompanying ulcer or sinus, to produce large fungous granulations, are more constant in cases of necrosis, than in those of caries, some of which may remain a veryr consi- derable time unattended with any outward sore, abscess, or sinus, as we see illustrated in the ca- ries produced by various diseases of the joints. And, indeed, particular forms of caries, (if they deserve that name) are rarely accompanied with suppuration: a fact, to which I shall again ad- vert. “ The absorption of bone, like that of soft parts (sayrs Dr. Thomson,) may be distinguished into interstitial, progressive, and ulcerative. We have ample proofs of the interstitial absorp- tion, or that which is daily','hourly, and unceas- ingly taking place from every' part of the sub- stance of bone, in the deposition and removal of phosphat of lime, that has been tinged with mad- der. If too much earth be removed, the quan- tity of animal matter will be relatively increased, and a disposition given to softness of the bones— a state, which exists in the bones of children in the disease called the rickets, and in the bones of older people in that denominated mollifies ossium, or the rickets of grown people. “ I have already had occasion to mention the effects of the progressive absorption of bone, as manifested in the progress of aneurisms and other tumors to the skin ; but, the formation of pus is by no means a necessary, constant, or even fre- quent attendant on the progress of progressive absoqrtion in bone. Hydatids in the brains of sheep, tumors growing from the pia or dura mater in the human body (see Dura Mater,) or aneu- rism seated over the cranium, or within the cavity of the chest, are often the cause of the whole substance of a bone being removed, layer after layer, by progressive absorption, without the formation of a single particle of pus. (See Aneu- rism.) This state of the bone has often been confounded, but improperly, with that state of the bone, which arises from ulcerative absorption, the state, which is properly denominated caries, and in which, one or more solutions of conti- nuity may be produced upon the surface, or in the substance of the bones The ulcerations oc- casioned in bones by the venereal disease, afford by far the best marked examples of the effects and appearances of ulcerative absorption, or ca- ries in bones, &c.” (See Thomson’s Lectures on Inflammation, p. 389.} Caries has been divided into three kinds, ac- cording to the nature of its causes: 1. Caries from external causes; 2. from an internal local cause, where no outward injury of the bone, ami