172 ANEURISM. that is wounded, and of the size of the orifice in the artery and,in the vein. “ Another difference in such cases will arise from the different manner, in which the orifice of the artery may be united or continued with the orifice of the vein. In one case, the trunk of the vein may keep close to the trunk of the artery, and the very thin stratum of cellular mem- brane between them, may, by means of a little inflammation and coagulation of the blood among its filaments, as it were solder the two orifices of these vessels together, so that there shall be nothing like a canal going from one to the other ; and then the whole tumefaction will be more re- gular, and more evidently a dilatation of the veins only. In other instances the blood, that rushes from the wounded artery, meeting with some difficulty of admission and passage through the vein, may dilate the cellular membrane, be- tween the artery and vein, into a bag, as in a common spurious aneurism, and so make a sort of canal between these two vessels. The trunk of the vein will then be removed to some dis- tance from the trunk of the artery, and the bag will be situated chiefly upon the underside of the vein. The bag may take on an irregular form, from the cellular membrane being more loose, and yielding, at one place, than at another, and from being unequally bound down by the fascia of the biceps muscle. And if the bag be very large, especially, if it be of an irregular figure, no doubt, coagulations of blood may be formed, as in the common spurious aneurism.” As Scarpa correctly observes, a concurrence of two circumstances is requisite for the produc- tion of an aneurismal varix: 1. the incision in the vein, and that in the artery, must be exactly in the same direction : 2. the solution of continuity in the integuments and upper side of the vein must heal, while the wound in the deeper side of that vessel, and the puncture in the upper surface of the artery, remain open, and communicate so readily, that the arterial blood finds greater facility in entering from the artery into the vein, than in being effused from the artery into the surrounding cellular substance. If one of these two circumstances be wanting, either because the wounding instrument has entered the artery a little obliquely from the vein, or because the vein has not been suf- ficiently near to the artery, on account of the cel- lular substance between them, the arterial blood most frequently does not produce the aneurismal varix; or, if it does, the disease is always com- plicated with effusion of arterial blood into the cellular substance, or, with an aneurism, and aneurismal varix at the same time. In this case, the small aneurismal sac serves as a short canal of communication between the artery and the vein, (Med. Facts untL Oos. Vo/.4, p. 115,) two distinct diseases in fact being formed from the same cause, and placed one over the other, viz., an aneurism, and an aneurismal varix. (Scinptt, p. 421, Ed, 2.) The following marks of distinc- tion, between aneurism and aneurismal varix, are pointed out by the snme author: the aneu- rismal varix forms always a circumscribed tumor; aneurism does not always do so. The cellular substance, which constitutes the sac of the aneu- rism, does not always resist so strongly the im- petus of the arterial blood, as the coats ol the vein do. Not unfrcqucntly, therefore, aneu- rism, from being circumscribed at first, becomes d iff used ; extends along the course of the wounded artery; compresses strongly the surrounding parts; occasions acute pain and inflammation; and the parts are threatened with gangrene. On the contrary, the aneurismal varix is always circum- scribed, increases very slowly, does not produce much pain, and, as it augments, it always extends more or less above and below the place, where venesection has been done ; and this extension is in proportion to the greater or less force, with which the arterial blood is thrown from the artery into the vein, and the greater or less resistance made by the valves, situated in the vein below the puncture ; and according to the greater or less number of veins, communicating with the aneurismal varix. The seat of the disease is generally the basilic vein, which appears dilated in an unusual manner, forming an oblong tumor, of the size of a walnut, if the disease is recent. In the centre of the swelling is the cicatrix left bv the lancet. The vein is less dilated, the fur- ther it is from this scar, and, in general, at the distance of two inches and a half above and below this point, the vessel resumes its natural size. The small tumor, as has been explained, pulsates like an artery, with a tremulous motion and hiss- ing noise, which is sometimes so great, that the patient cannot sleep, if he is lying with his head low, and resting on the injured arm. The trunk of the brachial artery, from the axilla down to the place where it has been wounded with the lancet, vibrates with extraordinary force. There is no change of colour, nor inflammation of the skin; and the pain is inconsiderable. The swell- ing is eompiessible and yielding; but, it returns as soon as the pressure is removed from it. When the arm is kept for some time raised up towards the head, the tumor diminishes, and the same thing happens, when pressure is made on the communication between the artery and vein, or when a tight tourniquet is applied near the axilla. If the disease be complicated with aneu- rism, a second pulsating tumor will be found lying under the aneurismal varix. (Siwva, V. 424, Ed. 2.) After relating two cases, illustrative of the nature of .aneurismal varix. Dr. \\ . Hunter pro- ceeds to inquire; “ Why is the pulse at the wrist so much weaker in the diseased arm, than in the other ? surely, the reason is obvious and clear. If the blood can easily escape from the trunk of the artery directly into the trunk ol' the vein, it is natural to think, that it will be driven along the extreme branches with less force, and in less quantity. “ \\ hence is it, that the artery is enlarged all the way down the arm? I am of opinion, that it is the consequence of the blood passing so readily from the artery into the vein, and is such an ex- tension, as happens to all arteries, in growing bodies, and to the arteries of particular parts, when the parts themselves increase in their bulk, and, at the same time, retain avascular structure. It is well known, that the arteries of the uterus grow much larger in the time of utero-gestation. 1 once saw a fleshy tumor upon the lop oi a mail’s head, as large nearly as his head ; and his temporal and occipital arteries, which led the tumor, were enlarged in proportion. I have