! LACHRYMAL ORGANS. part of the yellow viscid matter, which accumu- lates in the lachrymal sac, is secreted bv the lining of the eyelids, and by the little glands of Meibomius; and that the altered quality of this secretion has a principal share in the cause of the disease. Pie states, that the truth of this fact may at once be ascertained by everting the eye- lids, and especially the lower one of the affected side; and by comparing them with those of the opposite eye. The former will always exhibit an unnatural redness of the internal membrane, which has a villous appearance, all over the ex- tent of the tarsus; while the edge of the lid is swollen; and numerous varicose vessels are dis- tinguishable on it. The follicles of Meibomius are also turgid and prominent, and when examined with a magnifying glass, not urifrequently appear to be slightly ulcerated. “ The villous structure, then, which the sur- face of the internal membrane of the palpebra as- sumes in these cases, becomes an organ secreting a larger quantity of fluid than usual, resembling viscid lymph, which, as before stated, being mixed with the sebaceous matter, copiously effused from the glands of Meibomius, constitutes the whole of the viscid fluid, with which the eyelids are imbued, and which is continually carried by the puncta lachrymalia into the sac, so as to fill, and also frequently distend it, until it forms a tumor. “ If, indeed, the lachrymal sac is emptied of this matter, by means of compression, and the eye and internal surface of the palpebrae are carefully washed, so that none of the glutinous humour, pressed from the sac, may remain upon them, and the eyelids are everted half an hour afterwards, the internal surface, especially of the lower one, will be found covered with a fresh effusion of mucus mixed with sebaceous matter, which has evidently not flowed back from the lachrymal sac to the eye, but has been ge- nerated between the eye and the palpebrae.” Another argument, brought forward by Scarpa, in support of his theory, is, that, if the morbid secretion of the eyelids be retarded, or sup- pressed, either accidentally, or by means of astringent applications, little, or none of the viscid secretion collects in the lachrymal sac, or can be forced out of the puncta lachrymalia. He has also constantly observed, that the puri- form discharge may be radically cured at its commencement, and before it has induced any flaccidity of the sac, by a timely correction of the morbid secretion from the inside of the eyelids, and keeping the lachrymal passages cleansed, by means of injections of simple water through the puncta lachrymalia into the nose. As for the internal membrane of the sac itself, he argues, that its structure does not qualify it for secreting a tenacious unctuous matter, like what is chiefly discharged from it, as it is entirely destitute of sebaceous glands, and can in reality only furnish a thin mucus. Howeve r, he admits, that if the sac happen to be inflamed, and ulcerated, a turbid matter may issue from it with the tears; but, says he, this matter is true pus, and quite dif- ferent from the curdy unctuous fluid, which takes place in the puriform palpebral discharge. (On the Principal Diseases of the Eyes, Transl. by Briggs, Ed. 2, p- 3 7.) The foregoing opinions of Scarpa have not met with universal assent, and, though there is pro- bably much truth in them, he may have over- looked too much the possible simultaneous affec- tion of the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. To Scarpa’s hypothesis, Himly and Flajani have made the following objections: First, that they have observed the fistula lachrymalis, without the least morbid al- teration of the eyelids and Meibomian glands. Secondly, that every puriform discharge of the eyelids is not succeeded by a fistula lachryma- lis. Lastly, that the fistula lachrymalis is cured by means of the operation alone, without any at- tention being paid to the morbid state of the eye- lids, when it exists. And Mr. Travers also regards Scarpa’s account of the origin of the dis- ease, independently of a permanent stricture, as hypothetical; for, if founded in fact, the disten- tion of the lachrymal sac, and the regurgitation of the fluid on pressure, would attend every se- vere lippitudo, or ophthalmia with puriform dis- charge, which is not the case. If Scarpa’s ac- count were correct, Mr. Travers sees no reason why the fluid, once admitted, should be arrested, or regurgitate, instead of passing into the nose, (see also Nicod. in Revue Med. T. 1, p. 155,) and he thinks there is every reason to believe, that the fluid, so discharged, is the proper secre- tion of the sac, and cases are frequent, in which it is retained and cannot be expressed, owing to strictures both of the lachrymal and nasal ducts. {Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p 360.) Some of the arguments, with which Scarpa meets this reasoning, are already anticipated, especially that which refers to the difference between the se- cretion of the sac itself and that of the sebaceous glands of the eyelids. Also, in asserting, that the origin of the fistula lachrymalis generally mani- fests itself on the eyelids, before the lachrymal passages are affected, Scarpa declares, that he does not pretend thereby to exclude altogether the possibility^ of a case, in which the membranes of the nasal duct and lachrymal sac may not be thickened and ulcerated, independently of the disease of the eyelids. That this is the case, I think is evident from the account already deli- vered in the two first sections of this article, of Beer’s opinions, respecting the consequences of inflammation of the integuments and other parts about the inner angle of the eye, as well as re- specting the effects of acute inflammation of the lachrymal sac itself. However, Scarpa admits the fact, and the question left is, whether he is right in assigning the morbid secretion from the inside of the eyelids, as the most common cause of the swelling, ulceration, &c. of the lachrymal sac ? That every puriform discharge from the eyelids is not followed by fistula lachrymalis, he allows, is unquestionable; and this, he conceives, most probably happens, because the lippitudo has not been entirely neglected, or because the se- cretion being less dense and viscid, than usual, descends freely with the tears into the nose through the lachrymal canals, which are large and pervious. But, in the acute stage of the purulent ophthalmia, he asserts, that the reason why the discharge is not conveyed into the sac is, that the inflammation and swelling actually close the puncta lachrymalia, and change their direction, so that both the puriform matter and the tears fall over the cheek, and cannot descend into the sac. As for the instances of cure, without any re-