FRACTURES. 465 frequently be found necessary, and must be executed. In the doing this, care must be taken, that what is requisite be done, and no more; and that such requisite operations be performed with as little disturbance and pain as possible.” Previous to large suppuration, or considerable collections and lodgments of matter, evacuation by phlebotomy, an open belly, and antiphlogistic remedies, as well as the free use of anodynes, and such applications to the limb as may most serve the purpose of relaxation, are the remedies, which Mr. Pott advises for the relief of the swell- ing, induration, and high inflammation, attended with pain, irritation, and fever. “ But the mat- ter having been formed and let out, and the pain, fever, &c. which were symptomatic thereof, having disappeared, or ceased, the use and pur- pose of such medicines and such applications cease also, and they ought therefore to be dis- continued. By evacuation, &c. the patient’s strength has necessarily (and indeed properly) been reduced ; by cataplasm, &c. the parts have been so relaxed as to procure an abatement or cessation of inflammation, a subsidence of tume- faction, and the establishment of a free suppura- tion ; but these ends once fairly and fully an- swered, another intention arises, which regards the safety and welldoing of the patient, nearly, if not full as much as the former; which inten- tion will be necessarily frustrated by pursuing the method hitherto followed. The patient now will require refection and support, as much as he be- fore stood in need of reduction ; and the limb, whose indurated and inflamed state hitherto re- quired the emollient and relaxing poultice, will now be hurt by such kind of application, and stand in need of such as are endued with contrary qualities, or, at least, such as shall not continue to relax. Good, light, easily digested nutri- ment, and the Peruvian bark, will best answer the purpose of internals; the discontinuation of the cataplasms, and the application of medicines of the corroborating kind, are as necessary with ; regard to externals* *.” “ Every body who is acquainted with surgery • knows (says Mr. Pott) that, in the case of bad compound fracture, attended with large suppura- tion, it sometimes happens, even under the best anu most judicious treatment, that the discharge ; becomes too great for the patient to sustain; and ' that, after all the fatigue, pain, and discipline, ! which he has undergone, it becomes necessary to j compound for life by the loss of thelimb-f-. This, j I say, does sometimes happen under the best * “ It is surprising how large and how dis- • agreeable a discharge will be made fora consider- able length of time, in some instances, from the 1 detention and irritation of a splinter of bone. If therefore such discharge be made, and there be neither sinus nor lodgment to account for it, and i ill other circumstances are favourable, examina- ■ Jon should always be made, in order to know • Whether such cause does not exist, and if it does, t must be gently and carefully removed.” t After the bones had united, Mr. Pott never ound it necessary to amputate a limb for a com- )onnd fracture, on account of the too great dis- I harge. and most rational treatment; but I atn con- vinced that it also is now and then the conse- quence of pursuing the reducing, the antiphlo- gistic, and the relaxing plan too far. I would therefore take the liberty seriously to advise the young practitioner to attend diligently to his patient’s pulse and general state, as well as to that of his fractured limb and wound; and when he finds all febrile complaint at an end, and all inflammatory tumor and hardness gone, and his patient is rather languid than feverish, that his pulse is rather weak and low than hard and full, that his appetite begins to fail, and that he is in- clined to sweat, or purge, without assignable cause, and this in consequence of a large dis- charge of matter from a limb which has suffered great inflammation, but which is now become rather soft and flabby, than hard and tumid; that he will in such circumstances set about the support of his patient, and the strengthening of the diseased limb tolls virihus; in which I am from experience satisfied, he may often be suc- cessful, where it may not be generally expected that he would. At least, he will have the satis- faction of having made a rational attempt; and if he is obliged at last to have recourse to ampu- tation, he will perform it, and his patient will submit to it, with less reluctance, than if no such trial had been made.” According to Mr. Pott, gangrene and morti- fication are sometimes the inevitable conse- quences of the mischief done to the limb at the time that the bone is broken ; or they are the consequences of the laceration of parts, made by the mere protrusion of the said bone. They are also sometimes the effect of improper or negli- gent treatment; of great violence used in mak- ing extension; of irritation of the wounded parts, by poking after, or in removing fragments or splinters of bone; of painful dressings; of improper disposition of the limb, and of the neg- lect of phlebotomy, anodynes, evacuation, &e. “ When such accident, or such disease, is the mere consequence of the injury done to the limb, either at the time of, or bv the fracture, it ge- nerally makes its appearance very early; in which case also, its progress is generally too ra- pid for art to check. For these reasons, when the mischief seems to be of such nature that gangrene and mortification are most likely to ensue, no time can be spared, and the impending mischief must either be submitted to or pre- vented by early amputation. I have already said, that a very few hours make all the differ- ence between probable safety and destruction. If we wait till the disease has taken possession of|the limb, even in the smallest degree, the operation will serve no purpose, hut that of acce- lerating the patient's death. If we wait for an apparent alteration in the part, we shall have waited until all opportunity of being really ser- viceable is past. The disease takes possession of the cellular membrane surrounding the large blood-vessels \ and nerves, some time before it makes any appearance in the integuments ; and will always be found to extend much higher in the former part, than its appearance in the latter seems to indicate. I have more than once seen the aperiment made of amputating, after a gan-