956 PUPIL. .artificial opening into the anterior chamber, where, Scarpa says, they will in time be dissolved and absorbed. 1 his separation of the iris from the ciliary li- gament, invariably occasions an extravasation of blood, which always renders the aqueous humour more or less turbid; but the turbidness is after- wards absorbed, anti the eye recovers its original transparency. The patient, says Scarpa, complains, during the operation, ot a vast deal more suffering, than at the.time when he undergoes the extraction or depression of a cataract. It cannot be other- wise; for, in detaching a part of the edge of the iris from the ciliary ligament, some filaments of the ciliary nerves, which proceed to be distributed to the iris, must at least be dragged, or lacerated. However, on the whole, the symptoms conse- quent to this operation, have neither been obsti- nate nor fatal in the two cases which Scarpa has seen. From some experiments made on the dead subject, Scarpa thinks the curved needle, which he uses for the depression of the cataract, would also be better, than the straight one, for making an artificial pupil. (Scarpa, sidle Malattie dcgli Occlit, Capo 16.) The celebrated Ad. Schmidt performed core- dialysis with a lancet-pointed curved needle, ♦ which was introduced, through the sclerotica, into the posterior chamber, with its concavity towards the uvea. Its point is to pass as far as the portion of the ciliary ligament, where it is designed to make the artificial pupil. The iris is then to be pierced from behind forwards, about the fourth part of a line from the ciliary liga- ment, from which it is to be separated, the sur- geon taking care at the moment to catch well bold of the iris with the point of the instrument, which is then to be withdrawn a little from the eye. If the new pupil should not be now large enough, the iris is to be again hooked with the needle, near the ciliary ligament, and the open- ing enlarged at its upper or lower angle, as may appear most advantageous. This plan is said to be advisable, when the whole cornea is opaque, excepting a small spot. . When, however, the diseased state of the cor- nea does not forbid it, Beer and Schmidt very properly recommend the needle to be intro- duced into the anterior chamber, and the iris thus separated from the ciliary ligament; a plan, which, as Weller observes, has proved more suc- cessful than the preceding method. In both modes, the lens will be pushed away from the new pupil by tlje movement of the needle, so that whether it be opaque already, or become so afterwards, vision will not be obstructed by it. (See Beer's Lchre, $c. B. 2,p '204—206, and Weller's Manual, Transl. by Dr. Monteath, Vol. 2, p. 66', (jfc.) With the view of removing all risk of the new opening becoming closed again, Ileisinger forms an artificial pupil, by making a small incision in the cornea, and introducing a minute double hook, which opens and shuts like a pair of forceps. After passing the hook closed into the anterior chamber, as far as the greater circle of the, iris, he turns the points of both 1 i 1 _ ll.ln mrmiKvnnO I ItOtl be shut again, and the part of the iiis, taken hold of, drawn a little through the opening of the cornea, where it adheres, and cannot re- cede again towards the ciliary ligament. (See Dar stall ting dues neuen Verfahrcns dir Mad. dannjislel zu unterbinden, and chirr Irichtm und sichcrn methflde kunsllichc Pupillrn ;:u bilden. 12mo. Augsburg, 1816.) Under cer- tain circumstances, however, as there may be difficulty in drawing the iris through the cornea, or apprehensions may be entertained of the opa- city of the cornea being increased by the pro- trusion and adhesion of the iris (the great con- sideration unquestionably against this method), Iieisinger approves of obviating the chance of the new opening being closed again, by removing a part of the iris, after its detachment from the ci- liary ligament; a combination of corcdlulysU with corcctomia, in the technical language of mo- dern ophthalmology. Were I a patient, and core- dialysis were deemed most applicable to the cir- cumstances of my case, I should dispense with any excision of the iris, preferring the chance of the new opening being permanent, to the dangers of too complicated and protracted an operation. Langenbeek is the inventor of an instrument for the formation of an artificial pupil: it is a silver tube, to one end of which is attached a very small gold one, containing a minute hook, capable of being moved backwards, or forwards, to the extent of only two lines, by means of a spring in the silver tube. The following is the account of Langenbeck’s method, as extracted by Mr. Guthrie from his writings. “ A very small opening is to be made in the cornea, in order that the iris, when brought out, may not recede. The hook, inclosed in the golden tube, (to prevent its bending front its tenuity) is to be directed to the spot, where the iris is to be laid hold of., The hook is then to be pushed out by the spring to the extent of one line, which will be sufficient to enable it to penetrate the iris. As soon as the hook is affixed, it is to be allowed to recede to its usual place in the golden tube, drawing with it the iris, which will be caught between it and the end of the tube, something in the manner of a pair of forceps. As soon as the hook begins to recede, a small black spot will be seen at the edge of the iris from its incipient se- paration, and care should be taken to insert the hook at, or even under the edge of the sclerotica, and as near as possible to the ciliary processes. The hook must recede gradually, the finger being kept steadily on, and moved slowly with the knob, regulating the spring in the silver tube. As the chance of tearing off a part of the iris is proportionate to the distance it has to be drawn out, the opening is to be made, as near as possi- ble, to the spot, where the separation is to be ef- fected, taking care that the pupil shall be large enough, so that the prolapsed iris, and subsequent opacity of the cornea, cannot obstruct the en- trance of the rays of light. The great advantage of this instrument, in Langenbeek’s opinion, is, that the separation is effected, by means of the spring, more gently and gradually, than by the finger alone, so that if a commenceirient.of the separation be effected, the completion of it is nortnin without anv risk of tearimr the iris. As