718 IRIS. accidental, made for the purpose of extracting the cataract, or evacuating the matter of hypo- pium, he not brought immediately afterwards into reciprocal contact, or continue not sufficiently agglutinated together to prevent the escape of the aqueous humor from the anterior chamber, re- gularly as this fluid is reproduced; the iris, drawn by its continual flux towards the cornea, glides between the lips of the wound, becomes elongated, and a portion of it gradually pro- trudes, beyond the cornea, in the form of a small tumor. The same thing takes place, whenever the eye-ball unfortunately receives a blow, or is too much compressed by bandages, during the existence of a recent wound of the cornea. Also, if the patient should be affected, in this circum- stance, with a spasm of the muscles of the eye, with violent and repeated vomiting, or with strong and frequent coughing, a prolapsus of the iris may be caused. When an ulcer of the cornea penetrates the anterior chamber of the aqueotis humor, the same inconvenience happens more frequently, than when there is a recent wound of that membrane; for, the solution of continuity in the cornea, arising from an ulcer, is attended with loss of substance, and in a membrane, so tense, and compact as this is, the edges of an' ulcer'do not admit of being brought into mutual contact. The little tumor is likewise necessarily of the same colour as the iris, viz. brown, or greyish, being surrounded at its base by an opaque circle of the cornea, on which membrane there is an ul- cer, or a wound of not a very recent description. As it usually happens, that the cornea is only penetrated at one part of its circumference by a wound, or ulcer, so in practice, only one prolap- sus of the iris is commonly met with in the same eye. But, if the cornea should happen to be wounded, or ulcerated, at several distinct points, the iris may protrude at several different places of the same eye, forming an equal number of small prtyecting tumors on the surface of the cornea. Scarpa has seen a patient, who had three very distinct protrusions of the iris on the same cornea, in consequence of three separate ulcers, penetra- ting the anterior chamber of the aqueous humor; one in the upper, and two in the lower, segment of the cornea. If, says Scarpa, the delicate structure of the iris; the great quantity of blood vessels, which enter it; and the numerous nervous lilaments, which proceed to be distributed to it, as a com- mon centre; be considered, the nature, and se- verity of those symptoms may be readily ac- counted for, which are wont to attend this dis- ease, however small the portion of the iris pro- jecting from the cornea may be, even if no larger than a fly’s head. The hard and continual fric- tions, to which this delicate membrane is then exposed, in consequence of the motions of the eye-lids; together with the .access of air, tears and gum to it; are causes quite adequate to the production of continual irritation ; and the blood, which tends to the point of the greatest irritation, cannot fail to render the projecting portion of the iris much larger, almost directly after its protru- sion, than it was at the moment of its first passing through the cornea. Ileiice, it becomes, soon after the prolapsus, more incarcerated and irri- tated, than it was at first. In the incipient state of the complaint, the patient complains of a pain, similar to what would arise from a pin penetra- ting the eye; next he begins to experience, at the same time, an oppressive sensation of tightness, or constriction, over the whole eye-balls. In- flammation of the conjunctiva, and eye-lids, a burning effusion of tears, and an absolute in- ability to endure the light, successively take place. As the protruded portion of the iris drags after it all the rest of this membrane, the pupil assumes of mechanical necessity an oval shape, and de- viates from the centre of the iris, towards the seat of the prolapsus. The intensity of the pain, produced by the inflammation, and other sym- ptoms, attendant on the prolapsus of the iris, does not, however, always continue to increase. Indeed, in practice, cases of old protrusions of the iris often occur, where, after the disease has been left to itself, the pain and inflammation spontaneously subside, and the tumor of the iris becomes almost completely insensible. Scarpa met with a man, fifty years of age, who had had a prolapsus of ihe iris in the right eye ten weeks; it was as large as two grains of millet seed; the patient bore it with the greatest indifference, and without any other inconvenience, than a little chronic redness of the conjunctiva, and a dif- ficulty of moving the eye-ball freely, in conse- quence of the friction of the lower eye-lid against the tumor formed by the iris. When the ex- tremity of the finger was applied, the little tumor felt hard and callous. In the early stage of this disease, some direct the iris to be replaced in its proper situation by means of a whalebone probe; and, in case of difficulty, to make a dilatation of the wound, or ulcer, of the cornea, by an incision, proportioned to the exigency of the case, as is done for the re- turn of a strangulated intestinal hernia. Others only recommend stimulating the prolapsed por- tion of the iris, with the view of making it con- tract and shrink into the eye; or suddenly ex- posing the eye affected to a very vivid light, in the belief, that, as the pupil then forcibly con- tracts, the piece of the iris, engaged between the lips of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, will rise to its proper place. However, Scarpa represents all such methods as absolutely useless, and even dangerous. Supposing it were possible, by such attempts, to reduce the iris to its proper situa- tion, without tearing, or injuring it, still the aque- ous humor would escape again, through the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, so that the iris, when replaced, would fall down, the moment af- terwards, and project from the cornea, in the same way as before the operation. Hence, though Scarpa admits, that the prolapsus of the iris is a serious accident, he argues that as sur- gery has no means of suppressing at once, or, at least, of suspending the escape of the aqueous humour through a wound, much less through an ulcer of the cornea, when either exceeds certain limits, the prolapsus of the iris, far from being an evil in such unfavourable circumstances, is rather useful, and, perhaps, the only means of prevent- ing the total loss of the organ of sight; for, the flap of the iris insinuates itself, like a plug, be- tween the edges of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, and thus completely prevents the exit ot the aqueous humour. Here I ought to observe, that Scarpa’s un-