FUNGUS. that of the organized part diminishes. Hence, the hones of old persons more easily break, than those of young subjects, and are longer in uniting ;;»ain. As Mr. Wilson observes, however, they never are found so friable and fragile, as to crumble like a calcined bone, but, on the con- trary, they contain a large quantity of oil, a fact particularly noticed by Saillant, (see Hist, tit la Socitte de Med. 1776, p. SI O',) and after death dry so greasy, that they are unfit to be preserved as preparations. Their organized vas- cular part is diminished, but their oily animal matter is increased. (On the Skeleton and Dis- eases of Bones, p. 258.) In persons, who have been long afflicted with cancerous diseases, the bones are said to become sometimes as brittle, as if they had been calcined. Saviard and Louis relate cases of this description. (Ohs. Chir. et Journ. de Savons, 1691. Ohs. et Remarques sur les Effets du Urns Canereux, Paris, 1750. Pouteau (Euvres Past- humes, T. 1.) Louis mentions a nun who broke her arm by merely leaning on a servant; and in the London Medical Journal an account is given of a person, who could not even turn in bed, without breaking some of his bones. In the latter stages of syphilis, the bortes are alleged to be sometimes remarkably brittle. (Ephem. Nat. Cur. Dec. 1. Ann. 3, Ubs. 1 12. Walther, Museum Anal. T. 2, p. 29.) In bad cases of scurvy, the bones occasionally become so brittle, that they are broken by the slightest causes, and do not grow together again. (Boettcher von den Krankh, (ter Knochen. p. 68.) The fragilitas ossium of old age is incurable : that which depends on some other constitutional disease can only be relieved by a_removal of the latter. (See Boyer on Diseases of the Bones, Vol. 2.) This author, in one of his last works, expresses his opinion, that the doctrine of mollities and fragilitas ossium being distinct different diseases, is by no means sufficiently proved by a due num- ber of accurate observations. (Traite des Mat. Chir. T. 3, p. 607—608.) Consult also Wuld- schmidt, Diss. de Fractura Ossium sine Causa violenta externii. Kitov, 1721. Acrel, Chir. Vor- jdlle 2, p. 136. Courtiul, Nouvelles Obs. Anat. sur les Os, p. 64, 12mo. Paris, 1705. Marcel- las Donalus, Lib. 5, c. J, p. 528. Walther, Museum Anat. Vol. 2, p. 29. Schmucher, Ver- mitchle Schriften, 1 B. p. 385. Kentish, in Edinb.Med.Comment. Vol. 1. Hist, del'Acad, des Sciences, 1765, p. 65. Hist, de la Soc. Roy ale de Medecine, 1777 and 1778, p. 224. Journ.de Med. T. 77, p. 267, T. 84, p. 216. Isenjlamm, Bract. Bemerk. liber Knochen. p. 368, 415, 466. Fabricius Iiildanus Cent. 2. Obs. 66, 67, 68, Cent. 5, Obs. 89. D’Aubsntov, Description du Cabinet du lioi, T. 3, Ossa Veneorum sponte Jracta. Meckrev, Obs. Med. Chir. p. 341, Amst. 1682. Weidmann de Necrnsi Ossium, p. 2, I'ranctfurti, 1793; and the writings of Duvcrney, Petit, and Pringle. J. Wilson on the Skeleton, <Je. p. 258, 8w. Load. 1820. FUNGUS. Any sponge like excrescence. granulations are often called Juneous when they h'gh, large, flahbv, and unhealthy. FUNGUS H2EMATODES. (ftomfungns, •Jin nipa, blood.) The Bleeding Fungus. Spun- goid Inflammation. Soft Cancer. Carcinoma San- g/ante. Medullary Sarcoma. This disease, which has been accurately de- scribed only of late years, was formerly generally confounded with cancer. The public are in- debted to Mr. J. Burns, of Glasgow, for the first good account of it; and the subsequent writings of Mr. Hey, of Leeds, Mr. Freer, of Birmingham, Mr. J. Wardrop, Mr. Langstaff, and others, have made us still better acquainted with the subject. It is unquestionably one of the most alarming diseases, incidental to the human body, because we know of no specific remedy for it; and an ope- ration can only be useful at a time, when it is very difficult to persuade a patient to submit to it. Indeed, when the diseased part is extirpated at an early period, a recovery hardly ever fol- lows ; for, experience proves, that it is not a dis- ease of a local nature, but almost always extends to a variety of organs and structures at the same time, either to the brain, the liver, or lungs, &c. It is of the utmost consequence to be aware of this fact, since we should otherwise be induced to attempt many hopeless operations, and deliver a prognosis, that might cause disappointment and censure. In a large proportion of patients, af- flicted with fungus hmmatodes, the general dis- order of the system is indicated by a peculiarly unhealthy aspect; a sallow, greenish yellow colour of the skin, which is frequently covered with clammy perspiration; constant trouble- some cough ; difficulty of breathing, &c. Fungus Hcemotodes, is the name used by Mr. Hey. Mr. J. Burns has called the diseasespongoid inflammation, from the spongy elastic feel, which peculiarly characterizes it, and which continues even after ulceration takes place. The fungus haematodes has most frequently been seen to attack the eyeball, the upper and lower extre- mities, the testicle, and the mamma. But, tiie uterus, ovary, liver, spleen, brain, lungs, thyroid gland, hip, and shoulder joints, iiave also been the seat of the disease. A distemper, which pre- sents itself in so many parts, must be subject to variety in its appearances. FUNGUS H NEMATODES OF THE EYE. 1. When it attacks the eye, the first sym- ptoms are observable in the posterior chamber, an appearance, like that of polished iron, pre- senting itself at the bottom of the eye. (Scarpa on Diseases of the Eye, p. 505, Ed. 2.) The pupil becomes dilated and immoveable, and, instead of having its natural deep black colour, it is of a dark amber, and sometimes of a green- ish hue. The change of colour becomes gra- dually more and more remarkable, and, at length is discovered to be occasioned by a solid sub- stance, which proceeds from the bottom of the eye towards the cornea. The surface of this substance is generally rugged and unequal, and ramifications of the central arterymF the retina may sometimes be seen running across it. The front surface of the new mass, at length advances ns far 1'orwards as the iris, and the amber, or brown appearance of the pupil, lias, in this stage, been known to mislead surgeons into the sup- position of there beiim a cataract, and make them