TUMOR. 1058 understand “morbid structures, that appear to be composed of more than one tubercle.1' (On Tubcrculated Accretions of Serous Membranes, fc. p. '213.) From certain appearances, traced in dissections, Dr. Baron infers, that all tubercles, wherever situated, and of whatever substance composed, were at their commencement small vesicular bodies, with fluid contents; hydatids, as he endeavours to prove. “ It is impossible to say, how minute they may have been at their origin, nor how large they may grow, before their transformations begin ; nor are we ac- quainted with the circumstances, which occasion such transformations.” To these changes in hydatids, (according to this writer,) certain tu- bercles owe their existence, and “ on the size, relative position, and structure of the tubercles, which are so formed, depend the characters of many of the most formidable disorganizations, to which the human body is exposed. (P. 315.) A single hydatid, when it is transformed (says Dr. Baron) will give rise to one tubercle. “ It may be pendulous, or embedded in any soft part, or it may be found between the layers of mem- branes, and wherever the textures are of such a nature, as to admit of its growth. It may be so small as to bo scarcely visible, or, it may acquire a very great magnitude. Single tubercles are often seen in a viscus, while all the rest of the organ is free from disease, and its functions are performed in an uninterrupted manner. But, it is evident, that the same state of the system, (whatever that may be,) which calls one tuber- cle into existence, may generate an indefinite number. They may be diffused through tire whole of a viscus, leaving nothing of its ori- ginal texture, or they may occupy any propor- tion of it, or extend to the contiguous parts, and involve them in the same form of disease.”— (P. 316.) When hydatids growing in clusters, and hanging within cavities, become changed into tubercles, Dr. Baron conceives, that the mor- bid appearances must of course correspond in some degree, with the original distribution of the parts. He has seen tubercles attached in this form to the choroid plexus, to the valves of the heart, to the fimbriated extremities of the Fal- lopian tubes, and to the omentum, and convolu- tions of the bowels. In the latter instance, they were very minute, the largest not being bigger than the head of a pin, and their number defied all calculation. “ Other varieties in the arrangement of the elementary parts of morbid growths, will of course cause corresponding varieties in their appearance Thus, when hydatids are enclosed, the one within the other, and are transmuted into solid substances, a section of these sub- stances will exhibit a series of concentric lamina Another variety pointed out by Dr. Baron, is “ when an immense number of very small tubercles are generated in juxtaposition, and unite together. Wherever such an event occurs, the original texture of the part is entirely lost, and a mass of varying degrees of density and firmness formed. In the earlier stages o 1 its growth, a granulated appearance may lie di- stinctly traced ; but, in process of time, this dis- appears, the consolidation becomes more corn- nous, or scirrhous texture may be found. I have traced (says Dr. Baron) the whole of these gradations in the liver, the lungs, the pleura, the omentum, the peritoneum, and in tumors in other parts.” (P. 31 9.) “ Sometimes, small hydatids grow from the outer or inner surface of large ones, or float within them. I have seen, t^says Dr. Baron,) from a source of this kind, the uterus arid its appendages converted intoanenormousmisshapen mass, tubercles of the size of the fist growing from it, while tiiese again were surmounted by smaller ones in many gradations. Some had glairy contents, others were in a state of scir- rhosity, and others were but little changed, having thin delicate cysts, and containing a transparent fluid. “ But, perhaps, (remarks Dr. Baron) the most important variety of all, is when tubercles, ori- ginally distinct from each other, approximate as they increase in size, ultimately unite, and form tumors, which have received dillerent designa- tions, according to the predominant character of their contents and internal structure. It was chiefly to elucidate this part of the subject, that I made the distinction between the words tumor and tubercle, &c.” (P. 319.) By thus advert- ing to the primitive arrangement, number, size,' &c. of hydatids, and their subsequent mutations,’ Dr. Baron tries to account for the varieties of encysted and sarcomatous tumors, fungus hcema- tode's, tubereulated sarcoma, scirrhous swellings, &c. &c. The late Dr. Adams, as is well known, referred cancer to the living state, growth, and multiplication of the hydatid. ( On the Cane; rouS Breast, p- 77.) In order to account for the various appearances of the disease, he has divided hydatids into a number of species, as lymphatic., cruenia, and ccrcinomatosa, and suspects, that there may be others. These, he affirms, are lodged in different cavities, or enclosed in a fungus, which is occasioned by any individual, or numbers, stimulating the surrounding parts to generate it, for the purpose cl dividing the dead from the living. This fungus is a nidus, formed altogether for the protection of another generation ; by means of it, the living families are separated from the dead, and their preserva- tion is secured. They die. he says, without other* wise affecting the body, it: which they existed,-^ but, by their local stimulus, and he declares, that his object is to prove the an'ntuilcuiar existence of carcinoma. Now, according to Dr. Baroi > tills main position is the fundamental error >’* Dr. Adams’s book ; for, “ in no rational, nor Iff* gitiinate, point of view may cancer be said t® have an animulcular existence ; because adroit* ting, for the sake of argument, that hydatids ate. animalcules, it has, I trust, been shewn, (>*?* Dr. Baron,) that it is to the loss of the hydatidA character altogether, and the transformation* of these bodies, that the morbid appearances**] this, and many other diseases, are to be rcjn red.” (P. '21 (i.) Although I consider the evidence and remarks* which Dr. Baron has adduced, in support of h opinions in many respects interesting, the brought forward do not appear to me to just'} the conclusion, that the formation of tnberces and tumors originally depends upon hydatids, a*"1.