16 AMAUROSIS. White, 8w. I.-mil. 1770,;). 17. Philos. Trans, abridged, vol. 5. p. 256, et seq. Edinb. Med. Essays and Ohs. vol. 1. p. 301. Ilid. vol. 5. /). 43 1. Essays Pkys. and Literary, vnl. ‘2. />. 345. Leigh's Natural History of Lancashire, plate J. Jig* 4. T!. Hey’s Practical Oos. in Surgery, p. 507. cd. 2. liicherand, Nosographie Chirurgi- cale, t. 3. p. 433. ed. 4. Thomas, in Med.- Chir. Transactions, vol. 6. p. 98. AMAUROSIS (from aptctopniv, to obscure). Gutta serena. Sujfusio nigra. Fr. L'Amaurose; Germ. Schwarzcr Staar. According to Beer, the term amaurosis properly means that diminution or total loss of sight, which immediately depends upon a morbid state of the retina and optic nerve, whether this morbid state exist as the only de- fect, or be complicated with other mischief; whe- ther it be a primary affection, or a secondary one, induced by previous disease of other parts of the eye. From this definition, which.comprehends every form of amaurosis, it is evident, that this affec- tion does not uniformly take place as a single independent disorder; but not unfrequently presents itself as a symptomatic effect of some otherdisease of theeye: a fact exemplified in cases of hydrophthalmia, cirsophthalmia, glaucoma, &c. And, as Mr. Wardrop observes, amaurosis, in its usual acceptation, signifies a symptom of disease, as well as a distinct affection. ( Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. 2. 165. 8vo. Lond. i 818.) With respect to the mere name of the kind of disease, which is here implied by amaurosis, its correctness will remain the same, whether the iris be moveable or im- moveable ; whether the pupil be preternaturally enlarged, or contracted; and whether it be per- fectly dear and transparent, or more or less tur- bid ; for the name only refers to the morbid state of the retina and optic nerve, and not to the con- dition of the sight in general. When the long established name of amaurosis is received with this precise meaning, there will not be the slight- est danger of confounding this disease with other affections of the eye. However, when it is wished to make out the very different forms and kinds of amaurosis, the foregoing appearances of the iris and pupil are considerations of great importance. (See Beer’s Lthre von den Augenkrun/iheiten, b. •J. p. 420, fyc. Wien, 1817.) Amaurosis does not constantly attack both eyes at the same time; frequently one is attacked soi. e time after the other, and it is not unusual even for one eye to remain sound during life, while the other is completely blind. This depends, in part, upon the disposition to the disease in one eye being quite local, and in part upon the causes giving rise to the complaint extending their opera- tion only to the eye affected. Where, also, the origin of amaurosis seems to depend altogether upon constitutional causes, as in gouty and sy- philitic patients, &c. one eye is not unfrequently attacked much sooner than the other; though, in these examples, it is more rare to find the eye, which does not suffer at first, continue perfectly unaffected. ( Beer, h. 2. p. 422.) As a general observation, Mr. Wardrop thinks it may be re- marked, that, when only one eye becomes at first amaurotic, from a sympathetic affection, there is little danger of the other eye becoming blind; but, that when amaurosis is produced by any organic change in one eye, the other is in danger of becoming sympathetically affected. {Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human hue, vol. 2. p. 190.) Amaurosis does not completely hinder vision, a diminished power of seeing often remaining during life. Hence the division of cases into project and imperfect, which latter, however, sometimes attain a degree, in which the patient is only just able to distinguish light, the direction of its rays, and its degree. Imperfect amaurosis, besides being character- ized by a considerable weakness of sight, ap- proaching to real blindness (Amblyopia Amauro- tica), is mostly complicated with a greater or lesser number of other morbid appearances, which merit serious attention. Amongst the most important of these symp- tomatic appearances of imperfect amaurosis is a defective interrupted vision (uisusinterruptus). For instance, when the patient is reading, single syllables, words, or lines cannot be seen, unless the eye be first directed to them by a movement of the whole head, and greater or lesser portions of other objects are, in the same manner, undi- stinguishable. Sometimes, amaurotic patients can see only the upper or lower, or the left or the right half of objects. (Visits dimidiatus ; Amau- rosis dimidiata ; Hcminpia; Hemiopsia.) Sometimes, when the patient shuts one eye, he can only distinguish the halves of objects; but, if he open both eyes, he sees ever}' thing in its natural form. In this case, according to Schmuc- ker, one eye is sound, and only some fibres of the nerve of sight are injured in the other. (Ver- misckle £hir. Schrift. b. 2. p. 12.) There are likewise some not very uncommon cases of imperfect amaurosis, in which the patient cannot see. an object, unless it be held in a.parti- cular direction before the eye; but, when the eye or head is moved in the least, he loses all view of the thing, and cannot easily get sight of it again. (Beer, Lekre von den Augenkrank- heiten, h. 2. p. 424.) On this part of the sub- ject, it is remarked by Richter, that patients who may be said to be entirely blind, sometimes have a small part of the retina which is still susceptible of the impression of light, and is usually situated towards one side of the eye. This obliquity of sight was long ago pointed out by the late Mr. William Hey of Leeds, as common in the present disease. (See Med. Observations and Inquiries, vol. 5.) Richter mentions, that, in one man, who was, in other respects, entirely bereft of vision, this sensible point of the retina was situated ob- liquely over the nose, and so small, that it was always a considerable time before its situation could be discovered: lie adds, that it was so sensible, as not only to discern the light, but even the spire of a distant steeple. According to this author, it is the centre of the eye that seems to be the first and most seriously affected in the gutta serena. Hence, the generality of patients, who have a beginning imperfect amau- rosis, can always see objects, laterally situated, better than those which are immediately before them. (Anjangsgr. iter Wundarzn. b. 3. Kap. 14; also Hey in Med. Ohs. and Jnq. voL 5.) One of the. most common symptoms of a be- ginning amaurosis, is an appearance in the pa-