!)8 AMPUTATION. tween this bone and the deltoid, and at length bringing out the knife completes the external or superior ilap The rest of the operation does not essentially differ from Iticherand’s, except that M. Dupuytren takes hold of the lower Hap itself, before dividing it, and compresses the artery, until he has cut through it and tied it. Dupuytren’s plan would be difficult on the left side, unless the surgeon were an ambidexter; but, in other respects, it cannot be found much fault with. This surgeon has also proposed making one flap in front, and the other behind, in order to prevent the lodgment of matter. Riche- rand justly observes, however, that frequently a good deal of the wound unites by the first inten- tion, and that as the patient after the operation lies in the recumbent posture on an oblique plane, he cannot see what advantage oneway of making the flaps has over another, in regard to affording a ready issue to the discharge. (Op. cil. p. 515.) For the sake of celerity, of which the French are rightly admirers in all capital operations, another plan of amputating at the shoulder lias been proposed by Champesme and Lysfranc. In front of the fleshy part of the shoulder, and the scapular end of the clavicle, there is a slight tri- angular depression. Into the middle of this a narrow double-edged bistoury is introduced. The instrument enters the joint, the head of the hu- merus not being in contact with the surface of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, when the arm is left to its own weight, and allowed to hang down by the side of the body. The incision is then carried round to make the external flap; and the head of the bone, which becomes more and more dis- tant from the scapula, is easily dislocated, the tendons of the supra and infra-spinatus muscles having been cut in the beginning of the operation. Lastly, the internal flap is made in the way prac- tised by Dupuytren, Richerand, &c. Speaicing of this mode of operating, Richerand remarks : “ en l’employant, on parvient a des- articuler l’humerus, et a separer le bras en aussi peu de temps qu’en met un habile decoupeur a detacher l’aile d’un perdrix.” (P.514.) When the scapula is shattered, of course the loose fragments should be taken away, and, if the acromion be broken, and the remnant of it pointed and irregular, this sharp rough portion should be sawn off, as was practised long ago by M. Faure. (See Mdm. de I'Acnd. de Cnir. t. 6'. p. ] 14.) In one case, indeed, Larrey found it ne- cessary to take away more than two thirds of the scapula, and the humeral end of the clavicle. (Mem. de dm. Mil. t. 4. p. 432.) Sawing off part of the acromion, and coracoid process, as a general rule, seems to me quite unnecessary (See Fraser on the Shoulder-joint Operation, 8c<>. Land. 1813.), and improper, not only as producing delay, but by wounding other parts which should not be at all disturbed. (Sec Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds, p. 285, ‘286, &c.) The practice of scraping away the cartilage of the glenoid cavity, except when it is diseased, is not of greater value. Amputation at the shoulder has been partly superseded by a preferable operation, even in cases in which it would formerly have been deemed quite indispensable, such as considerable gunshot fractures of the head of the humerus; a caries of the substance of this part, &c. Boucher, in 1753, proved, that considerable wounds, ex- tending into the shoulder-joint, might be suc- cessfully treated, by extracting the fragments and splinters of bone. (Mem. de I Arad, de dm. i. 2, p. 287 et 461.) Instances are also recorded, in which when the head and neck of the humerus in children had been totally disunited from the body of that bone, a cure was accomplished by making such incisions as allowed the portions of bone, now become extraneous bodies, to be taken away. The earliest case of this kind on record is that in which M. Thomas, a surgeon at Pezenas in Languedoc, removed the separated head of ti e humerus in 1740, which, in a child lour years of age, presented itself loose in an incision, which had been previously made for the extraction of some sequestra. The particulars may be read in Guthrie’s valuable work. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 215, <V.) Mr. White, of Manchester, pro- ceeded further, for he made a deep incision at the upper part of the arm, dislocated the head of the humerus, which he knew was carious, and, pushing it through the wound, took it off with a saw. He began an incision at the orifice of a sinus situated just below the processus acromion, and extended the wound down to the middle of the humerus, by which all the subjacent bone was brought into view. He then took hold of the patient’s elbow, and easily forcing the upper head of the humerus out of its socket, he brought it so entirely out of the wound, that he readily grasped it in his left hand, and held it there till he had sawn it off with aeommon amputation saw, having first applied a pasteboard card betwixt the bone and the skin. The patient did not lose more than two ounces of blood, only a small artery, which’partly surrounded the joint, being wounded, which was easily secured. In about five or six weeks, the part from which the bone had been taken, had acquired a considerable degree of firmness, and the boy was able to lift a pretty heavy weight. At the end of two months, a large piece of the whole substance of the humerus was ready to separate from the sound bone, and with a pair of forceps it was easily removed. After this exfoliation the wound healed very fast, and, in four months after the operation, the boy was discharged per- fectly cured. On comparing this arm with the other, it was not quite an incli shorter; the boy had the perfect use of it, and could not only elevate his arm to any height, but perform the rotary motion as well as ever. The figure of the arm was not at all altered. Mr. \V liite did not make use of any splints, machine, or bandage, during the cure, in order to confine the limb strictly in one certain situation, nor was the pa- tient’s arm ever dressed in bed, but while he was sitting in a chair, and as soon as he cotdd bear it, standing up. To this method, Mr. White at- tributed the preservation of the motion of the joint. “ As this is the first operation of the kind that has been performed, or at least made public, (says Mr. White) I thought the relation of it might possibly conduce to the improvement of the art. That ingenious surgeon, Mr. Gooch, has indeed related three instances of the heads of bones being sawn off in compound luxations. In one of these cases, the lower heads of the tibia and fibula were sawn off, in another, that of the radius; and, in the third, that of the second bone of the thumb; but these were in many respects