emphysema. 411 lever, mounted on a handle, and straight through- out its whole length, except just at its very end, which was slightly curved, in order that it might be more conveniently put under the portion of bone, which was about to be elevated. The lever was pierced at various distances from its bent end, with several holes, intended for the re- ception of a little kind of moveable screw-peg, which was fixed upon the top of a sort of bridge. This latter part of the instrument consisted of an arch, the ends of which were long and covered with small pads, while, on its centre, was placed the little screw-peg already mentioned. It was the intention of Petit, that the peg should be joined to the bridge by means of a hinge; and as lie found that it was frequently necessary to ele- vate several different pieces of bone, he thought, that the peg should not be completely fastened in the hole, but that it should be capable of being moved about in any wished-for direction. With this construction, however, it was found, that the peg would only allow the lever to be applied with its edge obliquely, under the bone about to be raised, when the part of the cranium was situated to the right, or left. Louis conceived, that it would be a great im- provement of Petit’s elevator, if a sort of pivot were substituted for the hinge. The lever would then admit of being readily moved in every di- rection, and put under any point of bone, without any occasion to alter the position of the bridge , or fulcrum. * 1 have only to add, respecting elevators for fractures of the skull, that all the best modern surgeons content themselves with the common . one, which is the most simple, and. in the hands • of a surgeon, who knows how to use it, is found ; to answer everv desirable purpose. ELYTROCELE. (from t’Kvlgov, the vu- i and a tumor.) A hernia in the • vagina. EMBROCATIO ALUMINIS. R. Alu- 1 minis ijj. Aceti spiritus vinosi tenuioris, sing. Rss. For chilblains, and diseased joints. EMBROCATIO AMMONIAS. R. Liq. aramon. Ji. AStheris sulphurici Jss. Spir. La- vandulte ^ij. M. For sprains and bruises. EMBROCATIO AMMONIAS ACETA- TAS CAMPHORATvE. R. Linim. Camph. I Liq. ammon. acet sing. 3yj. Liq. Ammon, .^ss. M. For sprains, bruises, and chilblains, not in a state of suppuration. EMBROCATIO AMMONI E ACETA- TE. R. Liq. ammon. acet. I.in. sapon. sing. ;2j. M. For bruises, with inflammation. ' EMBROCATIO LYTTAS CUM CAM- 1PHORA. R. Tinct. Lyttae. Spirit, camph. ■ing- 3,i- M. This may be used in any case, n which the object is to stimulate the skin. It should be remembered, however, that the absorp- tion of lyttse will sometimes bring on strangury. EMBRYO I OMIA. (from epijS^voy, aJcetus, md TifMu, to cut.) The operation of cutting nto the womb, in order to extract the foetus. \oee ( rrsnrran Operation.) EMPHYSEMA. {tpipven u.ct from (p'j'raw, to nJ‘late.) A swelling, produced by air in the cel- 'dar substance. I he common cause of this affection is a frac- ured rib, by which the vesicles of the lungs being wounded, the air escapes into the cavity of the thorax. But, as the rib at the moment of its being fractured, is pushed inwards, andwounds the pleura, which lines the ribs and intercostal mus- cles, part of the air most commonly passes through the pleura, and the lacerated muscles into the cellular membrane, on the outside of the chest, and thence it is diffused through the same membrane over the whole body, so as to inflate it sometimes in an extraordinary degree. This inflation of the cellular membrane has been com- monly looked upon, as the most dangerous part of the disease; but very erroneously, as will ap- pear in the sequel. {Hewson, Mid. Obs. and ln- qtvrus, l nl. 3.j Emphysema is most frequent after a fractured rib, because there is a wide laceration of the lungs, and no exit for the air; it is less frequent in large wounds with a knife, or broad sword, be- cause the air has an open and unimpeded issue; it is again more frequent in deep stabs with bayo- nets, or small swords; and it is peculiarly fre- quent in gun shot wounds, because the orifice in the skin inflames, and swells, while the wound is wider within. {J. Bell on Wounds oj the Breast, P. 265, Ed. 3.) The symiptoms, attending emphysema, are ge- nerally' of the following kind. The patient at first complains of a considerable tightness of the chest, with pain, chiefly in the situation of the injury, and great difficulty of breathing. This obstruction of respiration gradually' increases, and becomes more and more insupportable. The patient soon finds himself unable to He down in bed, and cannot breathe, unless when his body is in an upright posture, or he is sitting a little in- clined forward. The countenance becomes red and swollen. The pulse, at first, weak and con- tracted, becomes afterwards irregular. The extremities grow cold, and, if the patient con- tinue unrelieved, he soon dies, to every appear- ance suffocated. The emphysematous swelling, wheresoever situated, is easily distinguished from oedema, or anasarca, by the crepitation, which occurs on handling it, or a noise, like that which takes place on compressing a dry bladder half filled with air. {Encyclopedic Metiiodiquc; Partie Cliirurgicalc, Art. Emphysema.) The tumor is colourless and free from pain. It does not of itself descend into depending parts, though by pressure it may be made to change its situation. It is elastic, that is to say, it may be pressed down, but it rises up again as soon as the pressure is discontinued. The swelling never retains the impression of the end of the finger, or, in the language of surgery, never pits. The part affected is not heavy'. The tumor first makes its appearance in one particular place; but, it soon extends itself over the whole body, and causes an extraordinary distention of the skin. {Richter’s Aijangsgr. der Wundarzv. B. \,p. 451.). The wound of the pleura and intercostals may sometimes be too small to suffer the air to get readily into the cellular membrane, and inflate it, but may confine a part of it in the cavity of the thorax, so ns to compress the lungs, prevent their expansion, and cause the same symptoms of tightness of the chest, quick breathing, and