48fi FRACTURES. from the cervix, " its life being supported solely by the ligamentum teres, which has some few vessels ramifying from it to the head of the bone. For the particular appearances found in the dissection of these cases, I must refer to the statements of Dr. Colies (Dublin Hospital Re- ports, Vo/. 2.), and to Mr. Cooper’s own account, from which it seems, that “ no ossific union is produced ; that nature makes slight attempts for its production upon the neck of the bone, and upon the trochanter major; but scarcely any upon the head of the bone; and that, if any union is produced, it is by ligament only.” (Vat. cit. p. 46.) Mr. Wilson’s observations are all in confirmation of the same explanation; {On the Skeleton, p. 247.) and lie adverts to two pre- parations, in the museum of the College of Surgeons, which have been supposed to be proofs of a bony reunion of the neck of the femur, subsequently to a fracture within the cap- sular ligament; but (says Mr. Wilson) “ I have very attentively examined these two preparations, and cannot perceive one decisive proof in either of the bone having been actually fractured.” One of these cases is that, which was pub- lished last year by Mr. Liston in the Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journ. Lastly, Dr. Colies of Dublin dissected several cases, in which the neck of the femur had been broken : in one, where the injury was within the capsular liga- ment, “ no effort of nature had been made to create a reunion between the two pieces of the fracture, and the stability of the limb had de- pended vpon the strength of those ligamentous bands, by u'hich each piece was connected with the capsular ligament of the joint, aided, no doubt, by the. extraordinary thickness, which the capsular hud acquired.” (Dublin Hospital Reports, Vol. 2, p. 336.) In the two first instances, reported by this author, “ The broken surfaces moved on each other, and were converted into a state ap- proaching to ivory. No attempt had been made to reunite the fracture, and the pieces of bone were held in apposition only by new ligamentous 'productions from the capsular ligament, which were inserted into the external surfaces of each piece. In No. 3, there had been a slight at- tempt made at reunion. In No. 7, 3, and 9, we observed a phccnomemm, which, I believe, is now for the first time mentioned, a fracture of only part of the bone. No. 6 presented us with that mode of reunion, which some have sup- posed the most perfect, of which this fracture is susceptible. While No. 10 and 11 exhibit a mode of reunion, very little inferior to,callus in point of firmness, but very different in its nature, and which I conceive is peculiar to the fracture of the neck of the femur.” Dr. Colies also found, that, in all these cases (except, perhaps, No. 5) the capsular ligament was vol lacerated. In every instance, however, there was an increased thick- ness of the capsule, and a removal of all, or the greater part of the neck of the bone. “ Although the ligamentous bands seem, in a majority of in- stances, to have proceeded from the capsular ligament, yet, it is evident from No. 6, that these may arise merely from the broken surfaces of the bone; for, if* this case not a single fibre was attached to the capsular ligament, the new bond of union being covered by the reflected portion of the synovial membrane or periosteum of the neck. We have an illustration of this in Ruysch. Tab. 1, Thes. 9.” In No. 10 and , 11, the fragments were united by a cartilaginous substance. In No. 7, 8, and 9, the unbroken portion of the neck was so softened, that it more resembled cartilage than bone, and, in this stak “ it was laid down upon the fractured surface, . , and united to it.” (Dr. Colies in Dublin Hos- pital Reports, Vol. 2, p. 353—355.) In the museum of the Ecole de Medecine, at Paris, there are some preparations, which the professors exhibit at their lectures, in order to prove, that bony union may succeed a fracture of the neck of the femur. These specimens were carefully ex- amined by Mr. Cross; but, none of them proved to him, that bony union ever follows where the head of the bone becomes insulated, except its attachment to the pelvis by the ligamentum teres. (Sketches oj the Medical Schools at Paris, p. 93.) On the other hand, Boyer observes, that experience fully proves the possibility of uniting such fractures of the neck of the thigh bone, as are situated within the capsular ligament; but, he acknowledges, that there are certain circum- stances, which may prevent this desirable event. “ From all that has been hitherto said on the prognosis of a fracture of the neck of the femur, we may conclude, (says Boyer) that this fracture is more serious, than that of any other part of the same bone, because the difficulty of keepings it reduced is greater. That it may in general be reunited, especially in young healthy subjects; but, more easily, when it is situated near the base of the neck, than near the head of the bone. That the languid vitality of one of the fragments, and the impossibility of ascertaining whether the coaptation be exact, make the cure slow, and the time necessary Tor their consolidation uncertain. That the neglect of means adapted to maintain- ing the limb in its proper length, and natural straightness, and the fragments sufficiently mo- tionless, may cause them to unite by an inter- mediate substance. Lastly, that the situation of the fracture near the head of the femur; the com- plete laceration of the elongation of the capsule investing the neck of the bone; the great age of the patient; and, particularly, the constitution labouring under some diathesis, which affects the osseous system ; may render the cure absolutely impossible; that, in this circumstance, one of the fragments is more or less destroyed by the friction of the other against it, and in the joint a disease is formed, which tends to carry oil' the patient.” (Boi/er, Traite des Maladies Cliii'urgicaUs, T. 3, p. 284.) This professor lays much stress on the complete laceration of the continuation of the cap- sule over the neck of the bone, as an occurrence preventive of union. But, he thinks it docs not frequently happen, because the capsular ligament hinders much displacement of the fragment. (Op. cit. ]>. 278.) As for Baron Larrey, he appears to entertain no doubt of the possibility of uniting frac- tures of the neck of the femur within the capsular ligament, and concludes his tract on this subject with the case of General Fririon, who was perfectly cured, after a supposed injury of this description. (Sec Journ. Complem. Tom. 8, p. 118-) How is this discordance between the most ex- perienced French and English surgeons to be re- conciled and accounted for? After the very nu- merous and careful dissections, which have been