598 HERNIA. diaphragm, and form a hernia within the chest; that the omentum, or intestine, or both these parts together, could sometimes escape from the belly through the foramen ovale, or sacro-isehi- atic notch, of the pelvis ; that a noose of small intestine, after being engaged in the abdominal ring, or under the femoral arch, could sutler the most violent strangulation, without the course of the intestinal matter being intercepted; lastly, that, in certain circumstances, the intestine and omentum could be in immediate contact with the testicle, within the tunica vaginalis, without the least laceration of this latter membrane. These and several other analogous facts, says Scarpa, are so surprising, that they would yet be regarded as incredible, had they not been proved by nu- merous observations on individuals affected with hernia: their possibility (repeats this experienced professor) would not even have been suspected either by the anatomist, or physiologist.” (See Scarpa, Trait e cles IIarnica, Pref.) The parts of the body, where herniae most fre- quently make their appearance, are the groin, the navel, the labia pudendi, and the upper and fore- part of the thigh ; they do also occur at every point of the anterior part of the abdomen; and there are several less common instances, in which hernial tumors present themselves at the foramen ovale; in the perinaeum; in the vagina; at the ischiatic notch, &c. The parts, which, by being thrust forth from the cavity, in which they ought naturally to re- main, mostly produce herniae, are either a por- tion of the omentum, or a part of the intestinal canal, or both together. But, the stomach, the liver, spleen, uterus^ ovaries, bladder, &c. have been known to form the contents of some hernial tumors. From these two circumstances of situation and contents, are derived all the different appel- lations, by which herniae are distinguished. If a portion of intestine alone forms the contents of the tumor, the case is called cnterocele; if a piece of omentum only, epiplocele; and if both intestine and omentum contribute to the forma- tion of the tumor, it is called an entero-epip- locele. When the contents of a hernia pro- trude at the abdominal ring, but only pass as low as the groin, or labium pudendi, the case receives the name of bubonocele, or inguinal hernia ; but, if the parts descend into the scrotum, it is called an oscheocele, or scrotal hernia. The crural, or femoral hernia, is the name given to that which takes place below Poupart’s ligament. When the bowels protrude at the navel, the case is named an exomphalos, or umbilical hernia; and ventral is the epithet given to the swelling, when it occurs at any other promiscuous part of the front of the abdomen. The congenital rupture is a very particular case, in which the protruded vis- cera are not covered with a common hernial sac of peritoneum, but are lodged in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, in contact with the testi- cle, and, as must be obvious, it is not named, like herniae in general, from its situation, or con- tents, but from the circumstance of its existing from the time of birth. When the protruded bowels lie quietly in the sac, and admit ofbeing readily put back into the abdomen, the case is termed a reducible hernia ; and, when, they suffer no constriction, yet can- not be put back, owing to adhesions, or their large size in relation to the aperture, through which they have to pass, the hernia is termed irreducible. An incarcerated, or strangulated hernia, signifies one, which not only cannot be reduced, but suffers constriction ; so that, if a piece of intestine be protruded, the pressure, to which it is subjected, stops the passage of its contents towards the anus, excites inflammation of the bowel, and brings on a train of alarming, and often fatal, consequences. The causes of herniae are either predisposing or exciting. Amongst the former, writers men- tion a preternaturally large size of the openings, at which the bowels are liable to protrude; a weakness and relaxation of the margins of these apertures; a preternatural laxity of the perito- neum; an unusually long mesentery, or omentum, &c. With regard to the abdominal ring, the transverse tendinous fibres, which naturally cross and strengthen its upper and outer part, are much weaker in some subjects than others. No idea seems more prevalent in books, than, that taking a good deal of oil with our food, is conducive to the formation of hernial diseases. Some of the alleged predisposing causes, may justly excite scepticism; but, several circumstances tend to prove, that a natural deficiency of resistance, in any part of the parietes of the abdomen, promotes the occurrence of hernia. Hence, persons who have had the peritoneum wounded, are very liable to the present disease; {Richerand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 317 ; Schmucker, Vcrmischte Chir. Schriftcn, B. 1, p. 197,) and men are much more liable, than women, to inguinal hernia, owing evidently to the larger size of the abdo- minal ring; while, in women, as there is a larger space for the protrusion of the viscera, below Poupart’s ligament, they are more exposed, than men, to femoral herniae. With regard to the exciting causes, our know- ledge is involved in less doubt. The grand cause of this kind, is the powerful action of the abdo- minal muscles and diaphragm on the viscera. In feats of agility, such as jumping, &c. the pressure which the contents of the abdomen must often encounter, sufficiently accounts for their pro- truding at any part, where the abdominal parietes do not make adequate resistance. The same consideration explains, why hernire very often take place in lifting and carrying heavy weights, running, vomiting, straining at stool, parturi- tion, &c. and in people who inhabit mountain- ous countries. This diminution of the capacity of the abdo- men, by the action of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, in many occasional exertions, must take place in every body, by reason of the com- mon habits and necessities of life. But, as only a certain number of persons meet with the dis- ease, it is fair to infer, that, either the exciting causes must operate with greater force in them, than in the generality of people, or else that their abdominal parietes have not been capable of the ordinary degree of resistance. Many patients, who meet with hernia:, in making violent efforts and exertions, may be in the former circum- stance; while others, whose viscera protrude from such trivial tilings as coughing, sneezing, crying, cVc. must be considered, as being under the influence of some predisposing cause. A