dislocation. 385 what Boyer has stated, Mr. A. Cooper remarks, that there is a slight tlexion forwards and out- wards. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 45.) The head of the bone felt in the groin, and the impossibility of rotating the limb inward, distinguish this case from a fracture of the neck of the bone. In reducing this dislocation, Mr. A. Cooper recommends the extension to be made in a line behind the axis of the body, so as to draw the thigh-bone backwards; and, when such extension has been continued some time, a napkin is to be put under the upper part of the bone, and its head lifted over the pubes and edge of the ace- tabulum. The last dislocation of the thigh remaining to be spoken of, is that backwards. In this case, according to the valuable descrip- tion of it given by Mr. A. Cooper, the head of the thigh-bone is placed on the pyriformis muscle, between the edge of the bone which forms the upper part of the ischiatic notch and the sacro- sciatic ligament, being behind the acetabulum, and a little above the level of the middle of that cavity. The limb is generally not more than half an inch shorter than its fellow; and the knee and foot are turned inwards, but not nearly in so great a degree as in the dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium. The thigh inclines a little forward, the knee is slightly bent, and the limb is so fixed, that flexion and rotation are in a great measure : prevented. s Mr. A. Cooper considers this dislocation as the most difficult, both to detect and reduce: : difficult to detect, because the length of the limb, -.and the position of the knee and foot, are but little changed; difficult to reduce, because the head of the bone is placed deeply behind the acetabulum, and requires to be drawn over the edge of the socket, as well as towards it. In thin subjects, a hard tumour is felt at the posterior and inferior part of the buttock, and the great trochanter is removed further from the spine of the ilium. The pelvis being fixed, the extension is to be nade downwards and forwards, across the middle if the other thigh, so as to dislodge the head of he bone, while the surgeon, with a napkin, placed . ust below the trochanter minor, pulls the upper siart of the femur towards the acetabulum. In his case, pulleys are preferable for making the :xtension. DISLOCATIONS OF THE TATEJ.T.A. This bone may be luxated outwards, or even awards, when violently pushed in this direction, "he luxation outwards is the most frequent, be- ause the bone more easily slips in this direction lithe outer condyle of the femur, than inwards, he assertion made by some authors, that the islocation inwards is the most common, is quite rroneous, as I have elsewhere more particularly onsidercd. (See First Lines of Surgery, Vat. 2.) n confirmation of what has been here observed, may mention, howevqy, the opinion of Mr. A. -ooper, who states, that the bone is most fre- uently thrown on the external condyle, where produces a projection ; and this circumstance, 'th an incapacity of bending the knee, is evi- ence of the nature of the injury. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, y. (jfj.) The generality of cases are easily reduced by pressure, when the exten- sors of the leg have been completely relaxed; but, owing to a lax state of the ligament of the patella, or other predisposing causes, the bone is sometimes difficultly kept in its proper situation, unless a roller be applied. The inflammatory affection of the joint is to be opposed bv bleed- ing, purging, and the use of the lotio plumbi subacetatis. The joint must be kept quiet a few days, and then gently moved in order to prevent stiffness. DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. The tibia may be luxated forward, backward, or to either side; accidents, which may be complete, or incomplete. As Boyer observes, complete dislocations of the upper head of the tibia are ex- ceedingly rare, because the articular surface of the condyles of the femur is so extensive, that the tibia cannot be entirely removed from it, without a prodigious laceration of the ligaments, tendons, and all the rest of the soft parts. The condyles of the femur are disposed in such a manner, that, in the extreme flexion of the leg, the articular cavities of the upper head of the tibia are still in contact with those bony emi- nences ; and this circumstance, together with the resistance made by the ligament of the patella, the patella itself, and the tendon of the exten- sor muscles of the leg, renders a sudden dis- location of the tibia backwards so difficult, that Boyer seems even to question the possibility of the accident, notwithstanding the case recited by Heister. (Traits des Mul. Chir. T. 4, p. 366.) That this accident, however, sometimes really happens, no longer admits of dispute: the case is noticed by Mr. A. Cooper as producing the following appearances; a shortened state of the limb; a projection of the condyles of the os fe- moris ; a depression in the situation of the liga- ment of the patella; and a bending of the leg forwards. This latter statement, I conceive, must be a mistake; and my suspicion is corro- borated by Boyer, who declares, that, in the dis- location of the head of the tibia backwards, the leg is bent to a very acute angle, and cannot be extended again. (Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 361).) It appears further, from the particulars of the example of this accident seen by Dr. Walslnnan, that the dislocation may even be complete, the head of the tibia being thrown behind the con- dyles of the femur into the ham. The tendinous connexion of the patella to the rectus muscle was ruptured ; and, probably, without a laceration of that tendon, or of the ligament of the patella, such a degree of displacement could scarcely have happened. (Surgical Essays, pari 2, p. 74.) But, if a sudden dislocation of the tibia from the femur backwards is uncommon, the same re- mark cannot be made respecting a displacement in that direction, gradually produced by the ef- feots of disease. Several cases of the latter kind have fallen under my own observation. A dislocation of the head of the tibia forwards, from the condyles of the femur, cannot happen, without the greatest difficulty; for the accident must be attended with a laceration of the lateral, crucial, and oblique, or posterior ligaments, all which tend to prevent the leg from being too far c c