858 CEDE he’could only see in the dark, and was completely blind in the day-time. (See Mem. de Chir. MHilaire, T. 1, p. 6'.) Nyctalopia may sometimes depend on a pe- culiarity in the structure and organization of the eye; by reason of which, the quantity of light, which only suffices for vision in an eye of natural formation, proves too abundant tor a nyctalops, and absolutely prevents him from seeing at all. OTSDEMA. (from ciSew, to swell.) The ancients understood, by this term, all kinds of tumors; but it is now restricted to a swelling, arising from the effusion of a serous fluid in the cellular substance of a part; the af- fection, when more extensive, and accompanied with a general dropsical tendency, becoming a medical case, and receiving the name of anasarca. An cedematous part is usually cold, and of a pale colour; and, as it is little, or not at all elastic, it pits, as surgeons express themselves, or, in other words, it retains, for some time, the mark of the finger, after being handled, or pressed. (Edematous swellings are often con- nected with constitutional causes. In many cases, however, they seem to be entirely local affections, arising from such causes as only act upon the parts, in which the swelling is situated. Thus we observe, that after violent sprains of the wrist, or ankle-joint, the hands and feet often become cedematous; and limbs are frequently affected with oedema, in consequence of the re- turn of blood through the veins being obstructed by the pressure of tumors on them, or that of splints, bandages, &c. Pregnant women are known to be particularly subject to oedema of the legs, owing to the pressure of the gravid uterus on the iliac veins. Persons who have been confined in bed, with fractured thighs, or legs, generally have more or less oedema in their feet and ankles, on first getting up again ; and the affection in these cases is probably quite dependent on loss of tone in the vessels of the limb. In the treatment of oedema, great attention must always be paid to^the nature of the cause, in order to determine whether the disease ori- ginates from a mere local, or a general con- stitutional affection. When it depends on the pressure of a tumor on the veins, as we often see happen in cases of aneurisms, the effect can- not be got rid of till the cause is removed ; and the aneurismal swelling must be lessened, before the oedematous one can admit of the same bene- ficial change. When oedema is the effect of vascular weakness in a limb, in consequence of sprains, contusions, &c. the best means of relief is, to support the parts affected, with a laced stocking, or a flannel roller, while they are also to be rubbed with liniments, and bathed with cold spring water, till they have perfectly recovered their tone. With regard to the oedema, attendant on the advanced stage of pregnancy, a complete cure (ESQ We know, that in the eye there is a black subJ stance, named the pigmentum nigrum; orujj supposed use of which is to absorb the redundant rays of light, which enter the pupil. A de-3 ficiency of it might perhaps account for a nyc-J talops being blinded with day-light, and seeing;! best at night. For an account of nyctalopia, in the sense on night-blindness, refer to Hemeralopia. cannot be expected till after delivery. The affection is generally more considerable in the afternoon than the morning, owing to the dif- ferent effects of an erect and a recumbent posi- tion. Some relief may be obtained by the patient’s keeping as much as possible in a horizontal pos- ture; and, when much inconvenience and pain are felt, the parts may be fomented with any aromatic or spirituous application frequently, oedema is one of the symptoms of suppuration, and, when the collection of matter is very deeply situated, sometimes leads to its discovery, as is exemplified in cases of em- pyema. There is a species of oedema, accompanied with a degree of heat, pain, &c. in the part, and which, in short, seems combined with phlegmon. In this case, cold evaporating lotions, the ap- plication of leeches, and the exhibition of saline purgatives, are proper. An erysipelatous oedema is also met with, in which the treatment should very much resemble what is explained in the article Erysipelas. CESOPHAGOTOMY. (from oesophagus and 'ny.'/w, to cut.) The operation of cutting into the oesophagus, in order to take out of this tube any foreign body which lodges in it, and can neither be extracted through the mouth, nor pushed down into the stomach, though its re- moval is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the patient’s life. A substance, above a certain size, lodged in the upper part of the oesophagus, not only obstructs deglutition, but by its pressure against the trachea, produces the most urgent symptoms of suffocation. In this circumstance, if relief cannot be expeditiously afforded in anv other manner, and the situation of the foreign body is denoted by a prominence distinguishable in the neck, oesophagotomy should be practised without delay. However, when the symptoms are pressing, yet unattended with any possibility of feeling the foreign body, either externally or with a probang, desperate as the situation of the patient may be, modern surgeons do not sanc- tion the practice. And this difference from the opinion of the first proposers of oesopha- gotomy, does not arise so much from any re- flections upon the greater difficulty of the ope- ration in this circumstance, as from the con- sideration of its being unlikely to answer the only purpose, which makes its performance at any time proper, viz. enabling the practitioner to extract with reasonable certainty the sub- stance, whose continuance and pressure in the <