A H 2 : i t WOUNDS. 1203 external air, the lungs on one side collapse, anti having hc.cn driven with the greatest violence remain so till the wound is healed, and the air between the sternum ancl lungs. Sir A. Hal- absorbed. When one of these organs is wounded, liduy, in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jeurn. Vol. a collapsed state is, indeed, the best condition in 11 ,p. Id!); a Recovery from a Gunshot Injury, which it can possibly be for a certain time, that in which a great part of the Shoulder was car- is, till the breach of continuity in it is healed, ried away, and the Lungs and Pericardium Schemes for making the lung expand, by ex- were exposed: to the authenticity of this Case hausting the air from the cavity of the pleura, I can hear witness myself, having been at the may be amusing on paper, but, I apprehend, they Field Hospital, when the Soldier arrived from will never be of real use in practice. the Trenches, near Antwerp. Fistula: sometimes continue, a long while, after Wounds of the Abdomen.—Here one of the wounds of the thorax. Platner mentions an in- chief causes of danger is the tendency of the pe- stance, in which there was a fistulous opening, out ritoneum to inflame. Every penetrating wound of which the air rushed with sufficient force to of the belly is apt to excite this inflammation, blow out a candle. The patient lived a long which too often extends itself over all the vis- while in this state, without suffering any particu- cera, and terminates in the death of the patient, lar inconvenience. There are (says Mr. John Bell) a thousand Another occasional consequence of a wound of occasions, on which the delicacy of the perito- the chest, is a hernia of the lunss, an affection, neum may be observed. The wound of the small of which, Sabatier met with an example. A sol- dier, thirty years of age, was wounded with a bayonet in the right side of the chest, between the middle part of the fifth and sixth true ribs. The wound healed ; but, as the intercostal mus- cles had been divided to a great extent, and could not be approximated with precision, an empty space was left under the integuments, which allowed a piece of the lungs, as large as a wal- nut, to protrude between the ribs. The swelling enlarged at the time of inspiration, and grew smaller when expiration took place, occasioning merely a slight pain without any oppression in i the chest. • . Though so much has been written on the sub- ject of discharging blood from the chest, in cases i of extravasation within that cavity, the opera- • tion is very rare. During the last twenty-four ; years, I have never heard of its being done by any of the surgeons in London. In military surgery, however, the practice is occasionally i exemplified. (Larrey, Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 2, p. 153, <^c.) No doubt, the true reason of the operation being uncommon, is the obscu- rity in the diagnosis, the symptoms being all of an equivocal nature. Even Larrey, generally so partial to operations, recommends the immediate closure of ail wounds of the chest, excepting such as are complicated with injury of the intercostal artery, because, (says he,) unless very consider- able vessels of the lungs are injured, (in which ■ case, nothing can be of any use,) either no ex- travasation, or -only a trivial one, happens, which, i under the employment of rigorous antiphlogistic t treatment, may be dispersed by absorption. [P. 127.) In the general propriety of closing nil wounds of the chest, I entirely concur with iLarrey, Pelletan, Royer, and Dr. Hennen. (On ^Military Surgery, ed 2, p. 373.) Consult, Sabatier, De la Mtdecinc Operatoire, T. 2. Journ. de Med. Milituire, 7 Tomes. vS' /unucker, Wahrnehmungen, 2 R. Berlin, H ’77 i—8,f). ,/. Bell, on the Nature and Cure of 1 Wounds, Ed. 3. D. J. Larrey, Mein de Chir. Milituire, Hvo. Paris, 1812—1817, in van us duces. John Ilenncn, Principles of Military 'Surgery, Ed. 2, 8t'<j. Edinb. 1820. Win. Mul- len, an Account of a Case of Recovery, after ui extraordinary Accident, A to. Loud. 1812. The injury here referred to, is one of the most extraordinary on record; the shaft of a gig sword, and the stab of the stiletto, explain to us, how quickly the peritoneum, and all its contained bowels, inflame from the most minute wound, al- though the injury be almost too small to be vi- sible on the outside, and scarcely within; for, often, upon dissection, no intestines are dis- covered wounded, and no feces have escaped in- to the abdomen. In subjects, who die after li- thotomy, we find the cavity of the peritoneum universally inflamed. The operation of the Cae- sarean section is fatal, not from any loss of blood, for, there is little bleeding ; nor, from the parts being exposed to the air, for, patients also die, in whom the womb bursts, and where the air has no possible opportunity of insinuating itself; but, the case proves fatal from the inflammation, which is always disposed to originate from wounds of the peritoneum, small as well as great. (Discourses on the Nature and Cure of Wounds, p. 3If), edit. 3.) But, although there can be no doubt that the wound, abstractedly considered, is the most fre- quent occasion of this dreaded inflammation ; yet, it sometimes happens, that the inflammatory consequences must be ascribed to another kind of cause. If an intestine be wounded, its contents may, under certain circumstances, be effused in the abdomen; if the liver, spleen, kidney, or any large vessel be injured, blood may be poured out amongst the viscera ; if the gall-bladder be wounded, bile may be effused; and, if the blad- der be pierced, the urine may escape into the abdomen. Now all these fluids are extraneous substances, with respect to the surfaces, with which they often come into contact, and, as such, they give rise to inflammation of the peritoneum and viscera. Wounds of the belly are divided, by almost all writers, into such as penetrate the cavity of the abdomen, and into others, which only interest the skin and muscles. The former differ very much in their nature, and degree of danger, according as they do, or do not, injure parts of importance, contained in the peritoneum. The latte r are not remarkably different from the generality of other superficial wounds. The chief indications arc to lower in- flammation, and to prevent collections of matter. A few particularities, however, in the treatment of superficial wounds of the abdomen, merit at- tention.