800 MAMMA. rassment and obstacles in the way of the whole operation. When the disease is of a scirrhous or malig- nant nature, the skin covering the tumor should, at all events, be in part removed. As I have said before, all that portion which is discoloured, puckered, tuberculated, or otherwise altered, should be taken away. Some must also be re- moved, in order to prevent a redundance, in all cases in which the tumor is large. We have said too, that in cases of scirrlms and cancer of the breast, the nipple is considered a dangerous part to be left behind. For the purpose of re- moving the necessary portion of skin, the sur- geon must obviously pursue a different mode from that above described; and, instead of one straight incision, he is to make two semicircular cuts, one immediately after the other, and which are to meet at their extremities. The size of these wounds must be determined by that of the disease to be removed, and by the quantity of skin, which it is deemed prudent to take away; for the part, which is included in the two semi- circular cuts, is that which is not to be separated from the upper surface of the swelling, but taken away with it. The shape of the two cuts toge- ther may approach that either of a circle or oval, as the figure of the tumor itself may indicate, as most convenient. The direction of the incisions is to be regulated by the same consideration. In the above ways, the first division of the integuments is to be made in removing tumors of every description, covered with skin. The same principles and practice should prevail in all these operations; and, whether the swelling is the mamma, or any other diseased mass, whether situated on the chest, the back, the head, or ex- tremities, the same considerations should always guide the operator’s hand. The incision, or incisions, in the skin having been made, the next object is to detach every side of the tumor from its connexions, and the sepa- ration of its base will then be the last and only thing remaining to be done. When the tumor is ascirrhus, or other malignant disease, the ope- rator must not dissect close to the swelling, but make his incisions on each side, at a prudent dis- tance from it, so as to be sure to remove, with the diseased mass, every atom of morbid mischief in its vicinity. But, when the tumor is only a mere fatty, or other mass, perfectly free from malignancy, the cellular bands and vessels form- ing its connexions, may be divided close to its circumference. It is astonishing with what ease fatty tumors are removed, after the necessary division is made in the skin; they may almost be turned out with the fingers, without any cutting at all. When the}' have been inflamed, however, they are then more adherent to the surrounding parts. Thus we see, that the first stage of the ope- ration of removing a tumor, is the division of the skin; the second, the separation of the swell- ing from the surrounding parts on every side ; the third and last stage is the division of the parts to which its under surface, or base, is at- tached. The latter object should be accom- plished by cutting regularly from above down- ward, till every part is divided. It is a common thing to see many operators constantly embarrassed and confused, whenever they have to remove a large tumor, on account of their having no particular method in their pro- ceedings. They first cut a few fibres on one side, then on another; and, turning the mass of dis- ease now to this side, now to that, without any fixed design, they both prolong the operation , very tediously, and present to the bystanders a 1 complete specimen of surgical awkwardness. On I the contrary, when the practitioner divides the I cutting part of the operation into the three rnetlio-. dical stages, above recommended, in each of which there is a distinct object to be fulfilled, be pro- ceeds with a confidence of knowing what he is about, and soon efiects what is to be done, with I equal expedition and adroitness. Having taken out the tumor, the operator is • immediately to tie such large vessels as may be j pouring out their blood; indeed, when the re- moval of the swelling will necessarily occupy more than three, or four minutes, it is belter to tie all the large arteries as soon as they are divided, and then proceed with their dissection. This was the celebrated Desault’s plan, and it is highly deserving of imitation in this country, not only because many subjects cannot afford to lose much blood, but also because the profuse effusion of this fluid keeps the operator from seeing what parts he is dividing. The largest arteries being tied, the surgeon should not be immediately solicitous about tying every bleeding point which may be observed. Instead of this, let him employ a little while in examining every part of the surface of the wounds in order to ascertain that no portion of the swell- ing, no hardened lump, nor diseased fibres remain behind. Even if any part of the surface of the pectoral muscle should present a morbid feel, or appearance, it must, on every account, be cut away. Also, if any of the axillary glands are diseased, the operator should now proceed to remove them. After the time spent in such measures, many of the small vessels, which bled just after the excision of the swelling, will now have stopped, the necessity for several ligatures will be done away, and, of course, the patient saved a great deal of pain, and more of the wound be likely to heal by the first intention. Some information may be derived, respecting whether any of the tumor is left behind, by ex- amining its surfaces, when taken out, and ob- serving whether any part of them is cut off; for, if it is, it may always be found in the corre- sponding part of the wound. The axillary glands may invariably be taken out, without the least risk, if the plan pursued by Desault in France, and the late Sir Charles Bliclce, and other eminent surgeons in this country, be adopted. The method alluded to, is, after dividing the skin covering the gland, and freeing the indurated part from its lateral connexions, to tie its root, or base, by which it is connected with the parts on the side towards the cavity of the axilla. Then the indurated gland itself may be safely cut off. just above the . ligature. Were the gland cut off in the first in- stance, the artery which supplies it with blood would be exceedingly difficult to tie, on account of its deep situation ; and by reason of its short- ness and vicinity to the heart, it would bleed almost like a wound of the’ thoracic artery itself. In this way, there is also not the least hazard of