ually, the number of these channels becomes iminished, and, after a length of time, a few essels, conveniently situated for the new em- ulation, become so much enlarged, as to be apable of conveying an equal portion of blood o that which passed through the original trunk.” The experience of Mr. A. Cooper also tends o confirm the important fact, that “ it is de- irable in femoral aneurism, if not, indeed, in all >thers, to perform the operation in an early state ,f the disease,” as the patient then recovers the jse of the limb much more quickly, than when lie tumor has been suffered to attain a large size. r'See Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 425, :t scq.) INTERRUPTED SUTURES. See Su- tures. INTESTINES WOUNDED. See Wounds of the Abdomen. 1NTROSUSCEPTION, or Intussusception, (from intus, within, and suscipio, to receive.) Called also Volvulus. Is a disease, produced by the passing of one portion of an intestine into another, and it is commonly from the upper passing into the lower part. (J. Hunter.) On this sub- ject, Mr. G. Langstaff has published an interest- ing paper, in the Edinb. Sur.g. Journal, No. XI.,- which J shall take the liberty of freely quoting. This gentleman remarks, that the small intes- tines of children are so often affected with intro- susception, in a slight dpgree, that most prac- titioners must have had opportunities of ob- serving the form of the complaint. The greatest part of three hundred children, who died either of worms, or during dentition, at the Hopital de la Sallpetriere, and came under the examination of M. Louis, had two, three, four, and even more volvuli, without any inflammation of the parts, or any circumstances leading to a suspicion, that these affections had been injurious during life. “ These cases (says M. Louis) seem to prove, that introsusception may be formed, and de- stroyed again by the mere action of the intes- tines.” (Mem. de VAcad, de Chirurg. 4to. Tom. 4. p. 222.) This opinion is confirmed by the authority of Dr. Baillie, (Morbid Anatomy, 2d Edit.p. 162,) who observes, that, “in open- ing bodies, particularly of infants, an intussus- ception is not unfrequently found, which had been attended with no mischief; the parts ap- pear perfectly free from inflammation, and they would probably have been easily disentangled from each other by their natural peristaltic motion.” The disease, continues Mr. Langstaff, assumes a more dangerous, and, indeed, generally a fatal form, when it occurs at the termination of the small intestines in the coecum. A contracted state of the part to be introsuscepted, and a dila- tation of that portion of the canal, into which this part must pass, are essential conditions to the formation of a volvulus; and those exist no- where so completely as in the situation here alluded to. The extent, to which the affection proceeds in this situation, would appear almost incredible, if it were not proved by well authen- ticated facts. A person, who considered the natural situation and connexion of the parts, would of course require the strongest evidence, 5CEPTION. before he would believe, that the ileum, coecum, ascending and transverse portions of the colon, may descend into the sigmoid flexure of the latter intestine; nay more, that they may pass through the rectum, and be protruded in the form of a procidentia ani. Such cases, however, are recorded. (Langstaff, in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal, No. XI.) This gentleman next relates the case of a child three months old, the body of which he inspected after death, and found to confirm the truth of the preceding account. The example was particular in there being in addition to an extensive intro- susception in the usual way, a smaller invagina- tion in the opposite direction, like what probably occurred in the case related by Mr. Spry ; Med. and Physical Journal, No. XI. Sir E. Home, (Trans, of a [Society for Medical and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. I.) mentions an example of a retrograde introsusception, in which a worm was found coiled up round the introsuscepted part. The disease took place in a boy who had swal- lowed arsenic. If the following mode of accounting for in- trosusception be just, it will most frequently hap- pen downwards, although there is no reason why it may not take place in a contrary direction ; in which case, the chance of a cure will be in- creased by the natural actions of the intestinal canal tending to replace the intestine; and pro- bably from this circumstance it may oftener occur than commonly appears. When the introsusception is downwards, it may be called progressive, and when it happens upwards, retrograde. The manner in which it may take place is, by one portion of a loose in- testine being contracted, and the part immedi- ately below relaxed and dilated; under which circumstances, it might very readily happen by the contracted portion slipping a little way into that which is dilated, not from any action in either portion of intestine, but from some addi- tional weight in the gut above. How far the peristaltic motion, by pushing the contents on to the contracted parts, may force these into the re- laxed, Mr. Hunter will not determine, but is in- clined to suppose, that it will not. Ey this mode of accounting for an accidental introsusception, it may take place either upwards or downwards; but if a continuance or an in- crease of it arises from the action of the intestines, it must be when it is downwards, as we actually find to be the case; yet this does not explain those in which a considerable portion of intestine appears to have been carried into the gut below : to understand these, we must consider the differ- ent parts which form the introsusception. It is made up of three folds of intestine; the inner, which passes down, and being reflected upwards, forms the second or. inverted portion, which being reflected down again, makes the third or containing part, that is the outermost, which is always in the natural position. (./. Hunter.) The outward fold is the only one which is act- ive, the inverted portion being perfectly passive, and squeezed down by the outer, which inverts more of itself, so that the angle of inversion in this case is always at the angle of reflection of the outer into the middle portion or inverted one, while the innermost is drawn in. From this