444 FEV FIN of bursting, lias been known to be absorbed, in consequence of a few days’ sea-sickness. The person continued at sea for four and twenty days afterwards; yet, no hectic symptoms followed, but only the specific constitutional effects, which were of a very different description. When the cavities of veins are inflamed, matter is sometimes formed within these vessels, and cannot fail to get into the circulation ; yet, hectic symptoms do not arise. Also, very large collections of matter, produced without visible inflammation, as many abscesses of the scro- phulous kind, are wholly absorbed, in a very short time, but no bad symptoms are the con- sequence. (Hunter.) We may conclude, therefore, that the ab- sorption of pus has no share in occasioning hectic fever. Many arguments might be ad- duced to expose the absurdity of the doctrine ; but, here it will be sufficient to refer the reader to what Mr. Hunter has said further on the sub- ject, in his work on inflammation. * It is much more probable, that hectic fever arises from the effect, which the irritation of a vital organ, or other parts, such as joints, has on the constitution, when either incurable in them- selves, or are so for a time to the constitution. (Hunter.) TREATMENT OF HECTIC FEVER. There is no method of curing the consequences above related. All relief must depend on the cure of the cause, (viz. the local complaint) or on its removal. Tonic medicines have been recommended, on account of the evident existence of great debility. Antiseptics have also been given, in consequence of the idea that, when pus is absorbed, it makes the blood disposed to putrify. For these reasons, bark and wine have been exhibited. In most cases, bark will only assist in supporting the constitution. Until the cause is removed, how- ever, there seems no prospect of curing a dis- order of the constitution. It is true, tonic medicines may make the system less susceptible of the disease, and also contribute to diminish the cause itself, by disposing the local complaints to heal. When, however, the hectic fever arises from a specific disease, such as the venereal, though bark may enable the constitution to bear the local affection better, than it otherwise could do, yet, this medicine can never remove the syphylitic mischief. (Hunter.) No medicine, not even bark itself, has any direct power of communicating strength to the human constitution. All that can be done, in the treatment of hectic fever, when it is thought inexpedient, or impracticable, to remove the morbid part, is to combat particular symptoms, and to promote digestion. It is by bringing about the latter object that bark in these cases is useful. The infusion of cinchona being more likely to agree with the stomach, than the decoction, or powder, should generally be preferred. Nourish- ing food, easy of digestion, should be frequently taken, in small quantities at a time. Nothing is more prejudicial to a weak constitution, than ovei- loading the stomach. Wine may also be given, but not too freely, and, not at all, if it should create heartburn, as it sometimes docs in hectic patients. Madeira is less apt, than port, to have this disagreeable effect. In these cases, it is likewise often found useful to administer gentle cordial aromatic draughts. But, of all medicines, opium is perhaps the most valuable to those, who are afflicted with hectic fever; it alleviates pain, procures sleep, and checks the diarrhoea, which so frequently contributes to hasten the patient’s dissolution. When the local complaint, connected with this fever, is totally incurable, it must, if possible, t,c removed by a manual operation. Thus, when a diseased joint keeps up hectic fever, and seems to present no hope of cure, amputation must be performed. But, when the local disease is at- tended with a chance of cure, provided the state of the constitution were improved, the surgeon is to endeavour to support the patient’s strength. Great discretion, however, must be exercised, in deciding how long it is safe to oppose the influ- ence of an obstinate local disease over the sys- tem, by the power of medicine; for, although some patients, in an abject state of weakness, have been restored to health by a removal of the morbid part, many have been suffered to sink so low, that no future treatment could save them from the grave. Clemency in the practice of surgery does not consist so much in delaying strong and vigorous measures, as in boldly de- ciding to put them in execution, as soon as they are indicated. When hectic fever arises from local dis- eases in parts, which the constitution can bear the removal of, the morbid part should be taken away, if it cannot be cured, consistently with the advice already given. When the disease arises from some incurable disease in an extremity, and amputation is performed, all the above- mentioned symptoms generally cease, almost immediately after the removal of the limb. Thus a hectic pulse, at one hundred and twenty, has been known to sink to ninety in a few hours after the removal of the hectic cause. Persons have been known to sleep soundly the first night afterwards, who had not slept tolerably for several preceding weeks. Gold sweats have stopped im- mediately, as well as those, called colliquative. A purging has immediately ceased, and the urine begun to drop its sediment. (Hunter.) FICATIO, or FICU^. (a fig.) A tubercle about the anus, or pudenda, resembling a fig. FINGERS, ABSCESSES OF. See IVhit- lore. _ • T Fingers, Amputation oj. See Amputation. Fingers, A ecrosis of. In these cases, the surgeon is to endeavour to extract the exfoliating portions of bone, immediately they become loose. For this purpose, he is justified in making such incisions, as will enable him to fulfil the object in view. Until the process of exfoliation is suf- ficiently advanced, lie can do little more, than apply simple dressings, and keep the part in a clean quiet state. When the separation of the dead pieces o bone will certainly destroy the utility °. tic finger, and convert the part into an inconvemeu , stiff appendage to the hand; or, when the pa- tient’s health is severely impaired by the "™a* tion of the disease, the termination o " 11C cannot be expected, within a moderate spate o time; amputation is proper. It is a trul , P