ANEURISM. 143 However, this operation of opening the tumor and tying the popliteal artery itself, was a severe and often a fatal proceeding, and does not admit of beino- compared with the Hunterian operation, in point either of simplicity, safety, or success, as I shall explain, after the detail of a few par- ticulars relating to the popliteal aneurism. On whatever side of the artery the tumor is pro- duced, it can be plainly felt in the hollow between the hamstrings, and in general its nature is as ea- sily ascertained by the pulsation in every part of the tumor. Though the disease may not occur in the popliteal artery so often as in the aorta itself, it certainly is seen more frequently in the former vessel, than any other branch, which the aorta sends off. As Sir E Home has observed, this circumstance has never been satisfactorily ex- plained; and, what is rather curious, in many recent instances of this disease, the patients have been coachmen and postilions. Morgagni found aneurisms of the aorta most frequent in guides, post-boys, and other persons, who sit almost continually on horseback; a fact, which he im- putes to the concussion and agitation to which such persons are exposed. Some allusion to this subject has already been made in the fore- going pages. Whether an explanation of the fre- quency of popliteal aneurisms can be correctly referred to the obstruction, which the circulation in the artery must experience, when the knee is in a state of flexion, may be questioned though it is on a similar principle, that the great fre- quency of aneurisms of the curvature of the aorta is attempted to be solved. (Home in Trans. of' a Society Jar the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 1, Sec., and Monro in Ed. Med. Essays, Vol. 5.) Were this the only, or even the principal cause, surely one would have reason to expect aneurisms to be at least as frequent in the axilla, and at the bend of the elbow, as in the ham. The popliteal aneurism was generally sup- posed to arise from a weakness in the coats of the artery, independently of disease. If this were true, we might reasonably conclude, that, except at the dilated part, the vessel would be sound. Then the old practice of opening the sac, tying the artery above and below it, and leaving the bag to suppurate and heal up, would naturally present itself. Mr. Hunter, finding, that the arterial coats were altered in structure higher up, than the tumor, and that the artery, im- mediately above the sac, seldom united when tied; but, that, when the ligature came away, ■ the bleeding destroyed the patient; concluded, that some disease affected the coats of the vessel, before the actual occurrence of the aneurism. Dissatisfied with Haller’s experiments on frogs, shewing that weakness alone could give rise to aneurism, he tried what would happen in a qua- druped, whose vessels were very similar in struc- ture to the human. Having denuded above an inch of the carotid artery of a dog, and removed its external coat, he dissected off the other coats, layer after layer, till what remained was so thin, that the blood could be seen through it. In about three weeks, the dog was killed, when the wound was found closed over the ar- tery, which was neither increased nor diminished in size. It being conjectured, that the prevention of aneurism, perhaps, arose from the parts being immediately laid down on the weakened portion of the artery, Sir E. Home stripped off the outer layers of the femoral artery of a dog, placed lint over the exposed part of the vessel to keep it from uniting to the sides of the wound, and, in six weeks, killed the animal, and injected the artery, which was neither enlarged, nor di- minished, its coats having regained their natural thickness and appearance. These experiments strengthened Mr. Hunter’s belief, that aneurismal arteries are diseased; that the morbid affection frequently extends a good way from the sac along the vessels ; and that the cause of failure in the old operation, arose from tying a diseased artery, which was inca- pable of uniting, before the ligature separated. These reflections led him to propose taking up the artery in the anterior part of the thigh, at some distance from the diseased portion, so as to diminish the risk of hemorrhage, and be enabled to get at the vessel again, in case it should bleed. The stream of blood into the sac being stopped, he concluded, that the sac and its contents would be absorbed, and the tumor gradually disappear, so as to render any opening of it un- necessary. The first operation of this kind, ever done, was performed on a coachman, by Mr. Hunter, in St. George’s Hospital, December, 1785. An incision was made on the anterior and inner part of the thigh, rather below its middle, which wound was continued obliquely across the inner edge of the sartorine muscle, and made large, in order to facilitate doing whatever might be ne- cessary. The fascia, covering the artery, was then laid bare, for about three inches, after which the vessel itself could be felt. A cut, about an inch long, was then made through the fascia, along the side of the artery, and the fascia dissected off'. Thus the vessel was exposed. Having disengaged it from its connexions with the knife and a thin spatula, Mr. Hunter put a double ligature under it, by means of an eye-probe. The doubled ligature was then cut, so as to make two separate ones. The artery was now tied with both these ligatures, but, so sligh^y as only to compress the sines to- gether. Two additional ligatures were similarly applied a little lower, with a view of compressing some length of artery, so as to make amends for thewant of tightness, as it was wished toavoidgreat pressure on any one part of the vessel. The liga- tures were left hanging out of the wound, which was closed with sticking plaster. On the second day, the aneurism had lost one third of its size, and, on the fourth, the wound was every where healed, except where the ligatures were situated. On the ninth, there was a considerable discharge of blood from the apertures of the ligatures, but it ceased on applying a tourniquet, and did not recur. On the fifteenth day, after the operation, some of the ligatures came away, followed by a small quantity of matter, and about the latter end of January, 17SG, the man went out of the hospital, the tumor having become still less. In the course of the spring, abscesses in the vicinity of the cicatrix followed, and some pieces of liga- ture were occasionally discharged. In the be- ginning of July, a piece of ligature, about one inch long, came away, after which the swelling went ofl’ entirely, and the man left the hospital again on the 8th perfectly well, there being no appenrancc of swelling in the ham.