314 CATARACT. into the pupil, at which moment, the pressure must not be discontinued, before the cataract is completely out of the eye, which object may be promoted by supporting the lower part of the lens with David s scoop, and then the pressure is to be diminished in the same gradual way, in which it has been previously augmented. Im- mediately the cataract is completely out of the eye, and the surgeon has paid due attention to the removal of any fragments left behind, the assistant is to let the upper eyelid descend, the patient is to be desired to keep both his eyes shut and perfectly still, and his head and eyes are to be covered with a clean white piece of linen, so that the effect of the light may be moderated. When the patient has recovered from the alarm, which, according to Beer, the passage of the cataract outwards, especially when it is large and firm, always produces in a greater or lesser degree, he is to be placed with his back towards the window, and the linen is to be raised a little from the eye, which is to be very slowly opened, while the other eye, which has not been operated upon, is to be kept well covered. Beer says, that the patient should then be shown some ob- jects, not of a shining, or very bright description, at different distances; and, if he is able to see them plainly, the surgeon may proceed to apply the dressings without delay. Beer confesses, that, if possible, it would be better to dispense altogether with making any trials of the power of the eye, which has just been operated upon, because such attempts must tend to increase the subsequent inflammation in the organ ; yet, he is of opinion, that these trials of the eyesight are necessary after extraction of the cataract. First, because the capability of seeing immediately is a thing always expected by the patient and his friends, and leaving them in igno- rance on this point, would keep up an anxiety, likely to have a bad effect in rendering the oph- thalmy more severe. Secondly, Beer urges, as a stronger motive for the custom, the circum- stance of the patient seeing, when his eye is first opened, all, even the smallest objects, though he suddenly loses the faculty of distinguishing them at all, or sees them very obscurely; and, now, if he be half turned with his face towards the win- dow, one will find in the pupil, which directly after the passage of the cataract was perfectly clear, some soft or firm fragments of the lens, which are first dislodged from within the cap- sule by the variations in the eye, produced by the inspection of different objects at different dis- tances, and which, without these trials of vision, would be long in being loosened by the aqueous humor, and might form a secondaiy lenticular cataract; which will not now be the case, as the surgeon can and ought at once to remove them. ( L'hre von den Augcnkr. 2 B. p. 373.) The preceding mode of operating, as Beer observes, will not answer for every case of cata- ract, adapted to extraction; but, the plan some- times requires to be modified according to cir- cumstances. Thus, according to the same writer, when the eye is very prominent, and particularly when at the same time the fissure of the eyelids is extremely narrow, the incision in the cornea must not be made horizontally, but obliquely outwards; for otherwise the edge of the lower eyelid will retard the healing of the wound, and an ugly cicatrix, more or Jess injurious to thej eyesight, be the consequence. When the cataract is of middling consistence* neither very hard, nor soft, Beer assures us* that the attempt ought to be made to extract tliu cataract and the capsule together at the same time! as formerly recommended by him. (Metbode de>j graven Staar samint dcr Kapsel amzuzichen, d'-cl Wien. 179,9.) In such a case, he says, the ex-ll periment will mostly succeed, if properly con-1 ducted, and, if it should not, it causes not the* slightest detriment to the eye, nor the least ob-lj stacle to the effectual completion of the operation, j In order to accomplish what is desired, the cap- sule-needle is to be introduced into the pupil, as? in the second stage of the operation, and its ■ point is then to be slowly pushed, as far as its i greatest diameter, into the centre of the lens, so that one surface of the needle may be upwards, | the other downwards; one of its .cutting edges: turned towards the inner canthus, the other to- wards the outer one. And now the needle, with i the impaled cataract, is to have sudden, but short perpendicular jerks communicated to it, by which means, the upper and lower connexions of the: capsule with the neighbouring textures will be in part loosened. The needle is next to be suddenly- rotated, without withdrawing it from the cataract, so that one of its flat surfaces may face the inner canthus, the other, the outer one; and one of its edges may be turned upwards, the other, down- wards ; and then the short sudden jerks of the needle in the horizontal direction may he re- peated, for the purpose of breaking, as much as possible, the lateral connexions of the capsule. Lastly, the capsule-needle is to be quickly with- drawn from the eye, when it is mostly followed j by the lens and the capsule, or the cataract comes away fixed on the point of the instrument, at which moment the pupil becomes perfectly clear and black. When the cataract does not follow the withdrawing of the needle, the surgeon is to proceed with the usual cautions to the third stage of the operation. Great as the advantage would always be of extracting the cataract, together i with its capsule, it is plain, that the attempt is ! not practicable when the case is a very hard len- ticular cataract, because the capsule-needle can- not be effectually introduced into the body of j such a lens, situated upon the yielding vitreous humor. Nor would the plan answer, if the cata- ract were very soft, as the movements of the needle in it could have no effect in breaking the connexions of the capsule. In the case described by Beer under the name of encysted cataract, the capsule must not be opened; but after properly opening the cornea, if the cataract does not escape of itself at this moment from the eye, the operator must im- mediately introduce the small cataract-tenaculum, with its point turned downwards, between the cor- nea and the iris, into the pupil. The cataract ll should then be firmly taken hold of with the hook, | and slowly and steadily drawn out of the eye with J its thick, tough capsule. Beer says, that ex- j traction should be performed in the same way J in the dry-husked capsulo-lenticular cataract of children and adults, except that, in all these cases, > a fine, elastic, sharp, silver, or golden spatula, fixed at the lower part of David’s curette or scoop, should be ready at hand to assist in se-