81)4 EAIi. ear, diseases of. AN organ, so valuable and necessary to the perfection of our existence, as the ear, should have all the resources of surgery exerted for the preservation of its integrity, and the re- moval of the diseases, with which it may be affected. What, indeed, would have been our lot, if nature had been less liberal, and not en- dued us with the sense of hearing? As Les- ehevin has observed, we should then have been ill qualified for the receipt of instruction; a prin- cipal inlet of divine and human knowledge would have been closed; and there being no reciprocal communication of ideas, our feeble reason could never have approached perfection. Even our life itself being as it were dependent upon all such bodies as surround us, would have been in- cessantly exposed to dangers. The eyesight serves to render us conscious of objects, which present themselves before us, and, when we judge them to be hurtful, we endeavour to avoid them. But, to say nothing of our inability of looking on all sides at once, our eyes become of no service to us, whenever we happen to be en- veloped in darkness. The hearing is then the only sense, that watches over our safety. It warns us, not only of every thing, which is moving about us, but likewise of noises, which are more or less distant. Such are the in- estimable advantages, which we derive from this organ. Its importance, when healthy, makes it worthy of the utmost efforts of surgery, when diseased. (Leschevin, in Memoires sur les Sujets proposes pour le Prix de l'Acad. Royale cle Chi- rurgie, Tom. 9, p. 111, 112. Edit. 12mo.) It is not many }rears since the diseases of the ear were a subject, on which the greatest igno- rance and the most mistaken opinions prevailed; and, indeed, how could any correct pathological information be expected, while anatomists had not given a complete and accurate description of the organ itself? Also, notwithstanding what has now been made out, respecting disorders of the ear, it is generally admitted, that they still require further investigation, and renewed in- dustry. Though Duverney, Valsalva, Mor- gagni, &c. dispelled some of the darkness, which covered this branch of surgery, they left a great deal undone. Since their time, science has been enriched with the valuable discoveries of Cotunni, Meckel, Scarpa, and Comparetti; the two first of whom demonstrated, that the labyrinth is filled with a limpid fluid, and not (as was pretended) with confined air; while the two last distinguished anatomists favoured the public with the first very accurate description of the parts composing the labyrinth, especially, the semicircular canals. In 176'3, the French Academy of Surgery offered a prize for the best essay on diseases of the ear, and, two years afterwards, the honour was adjudged to that of Leschevin, senior surgeon of the hospital at Rouen. This memoir is still of great value, few modern treatises being more * complete. 1 he most useful contributors to our stock of information on the pathology of the ear, subsequently to M. Leschevin, have been Fritter, and Lentin ( Ueber dus Schwa e G diver. Leipz. 1794); Trampel (Arnanun’s Mogaz. B. 2, 1798); Pfingsten (Vieljalirigc Erfuhrung ueber die Ge/iocrfehltr, Kid, 1802); Alard (sur le Catarrhe de. I’Oreille, 8vo. Pans, 1807, 2d Edit.) Mr. A. Cooper (Phil. Trans. 1802.) Portal (Anal. Med. 1803.) J. C. Saunders (Anal, and Dis.oJ'the Ear, 1806.) Baron Boyer (Mai. Chir. T. 6.) Saissy, in an essay, which received the approbation of the Medical" Society of Bordeaux; and Professor Rosenthal in a short but sensible tract on the pathology of the ear. (See Journ. Complem. T. 6, 1820.) But, notwithstanding the laudable endeavours of so many men of eminence, the pathology of the internal ear and the treatment of its diseases, are far, I may say, very far from a high state of improvement. To further advances, indeed, some discouraging obstacles present themselves : the auditory apparatus is extremely complicated; the most important parts of it are entirely out of the reach of ocular inspection ; the anatomy of the organ is perhaps not yet completely unravelled; the exact uses and action of several parts of it, anatomically known, are still involved in mystery; the opportunities of dissecting the ear in a state of disease are neither frequent, nor duly watched, and even when they are taken, and when vestiges of disease, or imperfection, are traced to par- ticular jiarts of the organ, the utmost difficulty is experienced in drawing any useful practical conclusion, because the natural uses of those parts, and the precise manner in which they contribute to the perfection of the ear, are not known to the most enlightened physiologists. We are here nearly in ti e same helpless dilemma, as a watchmaker would be, were he, in examining j) the interior of a watch, to find parts broken and out of order, the exact uses of which, in the per- , fection of the instrument, he had not first studied : and comprehended. In fact, the physiology of the ear is but very imperfectly understood; and, as Rosenthal remarks, (Jourv. Complem. T. 6, p. 17.) if, notwithstanding the progress made in optics, and the complete knowledge of the struc- ture of the eye, a perfect explanation has not yet been given of the phenomena of this organ, | as an instrument of vision, we cannot wonder, ’ that, with far more circumscribed information about acoustics, and the greater difficulty of . unravelling the structure of the ear, so little progress should have been made in the phy- siology of the latter organ. Were it practicable in acoustics to arrive at that precision and cer- tainty, which would enable us to establish laws in the theory of sound, as fixed as those which I relate to light, this void in physiological science ^ might perhaps le obviated. But, Rosenthal j justly argues, that hitherto the approach to per- fection lias not been made, and this notwith- | standing the learned arid valuable labours ol