SURGERY. 1002 made a degree of progress, of which few of the modems have any conception. It is noticed by Larrey, that when the celebrated French Gene- ral Desaix had driven the Mamalukes beyond the cataracts of the Nile, the Commission of Arts had an opportunity of visiting the monu- ments of the famous J hebes, and the renowned temples of Tentyra, Karnack, Medynet Abou, and Luxor, the remains of which still display their ancient magnificence. It is upon the ceilings and walls of these temples that basso- relievos are seen, representing limbs that had been cut off with instruments very analogous to those which are employed at the present day for amputations. The same instruments are again observed in the hieroglyphics, and vestiges of other surgical operations may be traced, proving that, in these remote periods, surgery kept pace with the other arts, which had already attained a high degree of perfection. (Larrey, Memoir es de C/iir. Militaire, T. 1, p. 233 ,• T. 2, p. 223.) We next come to the epoch when,, by the union and arrangement of scattered facts, the science truly arose. Hippocrates, born in the island of Cos, four hundred and sixty years be- fore the common aera, collected the observations of his predecessors, added the results of his own experience, and composed his first treatises. In the hands of this great genius, medicine and surgery did not make equal progress. The for- mer reached the highest degree of glory. Hip- pocrates drew up the history of acute diseases in so masterly a style, that twenty past centuries have hardly found occasion to add any thing to the performance. But surgery was far from attaining the same degree of perfection. The religious veneration for the asylums of the dead, and the impossibility of dissecting the human body, formed an insurmountable obstacle to the study of anatomy. An imperfect acquaintance with the structure of animals, reputed to bear the greatest resemblance to man, could only furnish venturesome conjectures, or false inferences. These circumscribed notions sufficed for the study of acute diseases. In these cases, the attentive observation of strongly marked sym- ptoms, and the idea of the operation of a salu- tary principle, derived from remarking the regu- lar succession of such symptoms, and their fre- quently beneficial termination, enlightened the physician in the employment of curative means ; while surgery, deprived of the assistance of ana- tomy, was too long kept back in an infant state. Whatever praises may have been bestowed on those parts of the works of Hippocrates particu- larly relating to surgery, and which amount to six in number (de officina incdici; defractu- ris; de capitis vulncribus; de arliculis vel luxatis; de ulccribus ; defistulis ,-) when com- pared with his other acknowledged legitimate writings, they appear only as the rough sketches of a picture by a great master. Excepting the fragments, collected or cited by Galen, we possess no work written by any of the successors of Hippocrates until the period of Celsus ; which leaves a barren interval of almost four centuries. In this space lived Erasistratus, nq wpII ns Hpronhilus. celebrated for the sects Celsus lived at Rome in the reigns of Augus- tus, liberius, and Caligula. He appears never to have practised the healing art, on which, how- ever, he has written with much precision, ele- gance, and perspicuity. Ills work is the more precious, inasmuch as it is the only one, which gives us information, with regard to the progress of surgery in the long interval between Hippo- crates and himself. The four last books, and especially the seventh and eighth, are exclusively allotted to surgical matter. The style of Celsus is so elegant, that he has generally been regarded quite as the Cicero ot medical writers, and Ioiju- enjoyed high reputation in the schools. His surgery was entirely that of the Greeks, not- withstanding he wrote at Rome: for, in that capital of the world, physic was then professed only by persons who had either come from Greece, or had received instruction in the cele- brated schools of this native soil of all the arts and sciences Let us pass over the interval which separates Celsus and Galen. This latter was born at Pergamus in Asia Minor, and came to Rome in the reign of the emperor Marcus Aurelius. He practised surgery and physic there about the year 16b of the Christian era. (Galeni Opera Omnia, 1322, Edit. A/di, 5 Vols. info!.) These two sciences were at that time still united, and though some writers of much earlier date speak of the division of physic into dietetical, chirurgieal, and pharmaceutical, no such distinc- tion was followed in practice. As Galen had been a surgeon at Pergamus, he continued the same profession at Rome ; but, being soon at- tracted by the predominating taste of the age in which he lived, for a science which more easily yields to the systems and dazzling speculations of philosophical sects, he afterwards neglected surgery which strictly rejects them. His wri- tings prove, however, that he did not abandon it entirely. His commentaries on the treatise of Hippocrates, Dc Officina Medici, and his essay on bandages, and the manner of applying them, shew that he was well versed even in the minor details of the art. Besides it is known, that he paid great attention to pharmacy, and in his work upon antidotes, chap. 13, he tells us him- self, that he had a drug shop in the Via Sacra, which fell a sacrifice to the flames that destroyed, in the reign of Commodus, the Temple of Peace, and several other edifices. To Galen succeeded the compiler Oribasius, GDtius of Amida, a physician, who lived towards the close of the fifth century, Alexander of Tralles, and Paulus (Egineta, so called front the place of his birth, though he practised at Rome and Alexandria. Paulus collected into one work, still justly esteemed, all the improve- ments, which had been made in surgery up to his own time. He concludes the series of Greek and Roman physicians, and may be looked upon as the last of the ancients, unless it be wished to let the Arabians have a share in the honours of antiquity. “ He appears, says Portal, to Ire one of those unfortunate writers, to whom pos* tsrity has not done justice. It seems as if be had been decried without having been read; fot