83 AMPUTATION. stump, or other accidental circumstances, will sometimes happen, without any fault on the part of the operator; but, he thinks, it may almost always be prevented by attention to the following rules: 1. To leave the integuments attached to the muscles, instead of turning them back. ‘2. IV hen the muscles are cut through in a slant- ing direction, upwards and inwards, or even directly downwards, to separate them from the bone, so that it may appear at the bottom of the cone as a depressed point; S. To cut the bone short, and to keep the thigh constantly bandaged trom the trunk during the cure, so as to prevent the retraction of the muscles. If, says Mr. Guthrie, a surgeon find directly after the opera- tion, that the bone cannot be well covered, lie should immediately saw off as much more of it, as will reduce it to its proper length. The error may be remedied at this moment with very little inconvenience in comparison with what must afterwards be encountered, if the opportu- nity be neglected. (O/i Gunshot. Wounds, p. * 109.) For some very useful directions how to bandage and support the soft parts with adhesive plasters, with the view of counteracting the tendency of the bone to protrude, I refer to some observations by Mr. Wright. (See Brotn- Jield’s Cdur. Cases, d[-c. V»l. 1, /?. 177.) Having explained, that the surest way. of preventing the evil is to save a sufficiency of muscle, especially of that muscular substance which is naturally most near and adherent to the bone, we shall next speak of the mode of relief. When the end of the thigh-bone protrudes, it of course hinders cicatrization, and becomes itself affected with necrosis. By the process of exfoliation, the dead portion of bone is some- times thrown off, and a cure follows. But, in general, this desirable change is extremely tedious, and uncertain as to the result, because it fre- quently happens, that after the piece of bone has separated, the rest yet projects too much, and the stump still continues too conical to heal firmly enough to be capable of bearing the pres- sure of a wooden leg. When, however, the end of the bone forms only a sljght projection, and the stump is not too conical, it is always best to leave it to nature to throw off the redundant ex- foliating portion. In the opposite circumstances, the operation of removing all such part of it as cannot be covered by the integuments, is the best thing which can be attempted, and, if well executed, will effect a cure. This second operation is exceedingly un- pleasant to the surgeon, because patients are apt to suspect, with reason, that the first was not properly managed. Let' roe therefore re- peat, that the surest way of avoiding the evil, is to cut the deep muscles, rather higher than the superficial ones, as inculcated by M. Louis, by which means, the bone will certainly lie within the level of the surface of the divided flesh. The advice delivered by my friend, Mr. Guthrie, 1 also consider valuable. The second performance of amputation is a still more severe and unpleasant operation ; yet, as Dr. Hennen has explained, it sometimes be- comes necessary from osteosarcoma, extensive neerosis, abscesses of the medulla, unsuspected fissure, phagedena, or great protrusion of bone, with an extensively diseased periosteum, where the powers of nature are inadequate to the cure. “If the general health is not impaired, and the flesh does not peel off' from the bone, as if it were boiled, the efforts of nature may be trusted ; to, aided by proper bandaging, and, in some j cases, by the employment of the saw ; but, when restless nights, intense pain, flushings, and irre- i gular bowels, with great tumefaction and hard- ness of the slump, take place, indicating ap- | proaching hectic, and there is evidence of an ; irregular action of the parts, osseous matter > becoming deposited, and forming a distinct tu- I mour around the stump, our best plan will be to j operate again near the trunk.” (Principles oj i Military Surgery, p. 266, Pd. 2.) The following j works are particularly recommended by this gentleman for information on diseases of the bones of stumps: Bonn, Thesaurus Ossium i Morborum, Ams1.1 788; Weidmann de A ccrosi ! Ossium, Frave of'. 1798; Macdonald, De A ccros i ac Callo, Edinl). 1799; the abovemenlioned Essays rf M. Louis j Leveille sur les Mai. dts Os a pres l’ Amputation, Mem de la Society d’Emu- lation, T. 1, p. 148; Von Hoorn De iis, quee in 1 parlibus membri, prersertim osseis amputationc vulneratis, notamla sunt ; Lugd. 1803. Roux, de hi resection des Os Malades, Paris 1812; and Mem. de Physiologie, Sjc. par Scarpa 11 Eevidle, Paris, 1S04. SPASMS OF THE STOMP. Spasmodic contractions of the muscles of the stump is another very afflicting occurrence. Such spasms put the patient to the greatest agony, tend to cause a protrusion of the bone, or sugar-loaf stump, and, in some cases, in- crease, affect the whole body, and ultimately ! occasion death. But, this unfortunate aftection, which was rather frequent after amputations performed in the ancient manner, is infinitely less so, after the modern improved plans of operating, tying the vessels, and dressing the wound. When, however, it does occur, the stump must be kept from starting, by fastening it to the pillow and bedding, on which it lies, the flesh is to be properly supported with a bandage applied from the pelvis downwards, and opium, and camphorated medicines, are to be liberally exhibited. (Encyclopedic Mithodujur, Parlie Chirurgicale, Turn. I. p. 93. Latla's Sur- gery, Vol. HE &) c.) FLAT-AMPUTATIOX OF THE THIGH. Although I concur with the majority of sur- geons in regarding the operation by a circular incision the most eligible under ordinary circum- stances, no doubt can exist about the preference, which should be given to amputating with a flap, in particular examples. This method, I believe, has the important advantage of being least ex- posed to the danger of a protrusion of the bone, and, hence, I think, it may be advisable, when- ever any reasons exist in the state of the parts, or the constitution, for apprehending that dis- agreeable occurrence. An experienced modern military surgeon informs us, that, in the first vears of his practice, he performed several am- putations by the double incision, strictly accord- ing to the precepts of Sabatier, Desault, Pclletan, and I’ott, but had the mortification to have three