659 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. gently pressed into all its depressions with the points of the fingers. When the lint is removed, a quantity of the discharge will be found ad- hering to it: and this operation must be repeated with fresh pieces of lint, until the surface of the sore is made perfectly clean and dry. According to Mr. Blackaddcr, the solution of arsenic will generally be found strong enough, when diluted with an equal part of water; but, in slight cases, it answered, when weakened with twice its quantity of water; and, in a few ex- amples, it was employed without being at all di- luted. Several pieces of lint of the same shape as the sore, but a little larger, are to be pre- pared : one of these, soaked in the solution, is now to be applied to the cleaned surface of the sore, and renewed every fifteen, or thirty mi- nutes, according to the time in which it becomes dry. When the heat and inflammation are con- siderable, great relief will be derived from the frequent application of linen cloths, moistened with cold water, which must be kept from weaken- ing the arsenical solution by means of a small piece of oil-skin laid ■over the pieces of lint. When the disease extends into the track of a gun-shot wound, Mr. Blackadder uses a syringe for cleaning the sore, and introducing the solu- tion. “ A slip of fine lint, well soaked in the solution, may also be inserted, by means of a probe, into the bottom of the wound; and when the openings are at no great distance (from each other) and not in the immediate vicinity' of the large nerves, and blood vessels, the lint may be drawn through the wound in the form of a seton. (P. 53.) When the pain, caused by the applica- tion, is very severe, and the constitution is irri- table, and debilitated, Mr. Blackadder prescribes an opiate, though he remarks, that this practice will seldom be absolutely necessary. The mor- bid action in the sore is destroyed by the ar- senical solution sooner, or later, in diflerent cases: the lest plan is to continue the applica- tion, until an insensible, dark coloured, dry slough occupies the whole surface of the sore; and until the patient is completely relieved from the burning and lancinating pain. After the slough is formed, Mr. Blackadder employs an ointment, composed of equal parts of the oil of turpentine, and the yellow resinous ointment, or of two parts of Venice turpentine to one of the resinous ointment. “ These being melted and mixed together are to be poured over the sore, as hot as the patient can possibly' bear.” A pledget of dry lint, or tow, and a bandage are then applied; and this dressing may be renewed, two or three times a day', the sore being each time carefully washed with the solution of potass. As soon as any part of the dough is loosened, Mr. Blackadder removes it with a pair of curved scissors. With the view of expediting the separation of the slough, he some- times employs a linseed-meal poultice, which had the desired effect, but was found to be too relaxing. . tien 11 is used, therefore, Mr. Blackadder found >t expedient, at each dressing to touch the new granulations with the nitrate of silver. A[tor tbe detachment of the slough, Mr. * ackadder dresses the sore with the above- mentioned ointment cold, or with the addition of a Mnall proportion of the subacctate of copper. n<- pledget of this ointment is covered with a piece of oil-skin, lightly rubbed over with soap, and a firm bandage is applied to the whole limb. (See Ohs, on Phagedcuna Gaugncnosa, p. 49, Sfcc. 8i'o. Edinb. 1818.) The author declares, that, after the introduction of the above treat- ment, (with the exception of stumps attacked with hospital gangrene) he never saw an in- stance, in which the remedy failed, when ap- plied in time and a proper manner; “ that is, be- fore the disease had made such progress, as to preclude all rational hope of success from that, or any' other mode of treatment.” (P. 23.) In Dr. Rollo’s treatise on Diabetes, published in 1797, the opinion is plainly stated, that the progress of hospital gangrene might be stopped by very active topical applications, and, in the same work, Mr. Cruickshanlc says, that “ if an actual caustic were to be employed, we should have recourse to the strong nitrous acid.’’ Ac- cording to Mr. Blackadder, the oxygenated mu- riate of mercury, and the nitrous acid were much recommended, and employ'ed by surgeons in the 16th and 17th centuries, as escharotics in cases of gangrene and foul ulcers. (P. 113.) Several army surgeons have informed me, that the un- diluted nitrous acid was successfully used as an application to hospital gangrene in the military hospitals at Antwerp in the year 1815; but, that other strong acids had an equally good effect. Dr. J. Thomson also notices, that “the applica- tion of caustic substances, such as the strong mineral acids, the solutions of potass, corrosive sublimate, and arsenic, seemed at Antwerp to arrest the progress of this sore, without exciting inflammation.” (Report of Observations made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium.) Delpech was informed by some British sur- geons, belonging to the Anglo-Portugueze army in the Peninsula, that the muriatic acid was in common use in the hospitals of that army, as a local application for checking the ravages of hos- pital gangrene, being employed in a diluted state for slight cases, and in a concentrated caustic form for others. In St. Bartholomew’s hospital, the undiluted nitric acid has been used, with great success, as a local application to phagedenic gangrenous ulcers, as may be seen by an interesting paper recently published by Mr. Welbank. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10.) Pouteau, Dussassoy, Boy'er, and Delpech all bear testimony to the efficacy of the actual cautery, and they repeat the application of it, until the whole surface of the ulcer is converted into a firm hard eschar. Even the edges of the solu- tion of continuity should not be spared—“ ils doiveut etre torrefies ct rotis pour ainsi dire." [Boyer, Traite dcs Maladies Chir. T. 1, p. 332.) The latter surgeon then covers the eschar with a thick stratum of bark, moistened with turpentine. This application is to be re- moved, in twenty-four, thirty-six, or forty-eight hours, and the surgeon is then to judge from the appearance of the flesh, and the quality of the discharge, whether a further repetition of the cautery will be necessary. Pouteau, CEuvres Posthtunes, T. 3, published 1783. Dussassoy Dissertation ct Observations stir la Gangrene des Hopitaux, S(C, 8;•<>. Geneve, 1788. Moreau et Burdin, Essai stir la Gangrene Hnmidc des Hopitaux, 1796. U U 2