823 MORTIFICATION. frequently soaking the loot and ankle in warm milk, than from any spirituous, or aromatic fo- mentations whatever; that is, I have found the one more capable of alleviating the pain, which such patients almost always feel, than the other; which circumstance I regard as a very material one. Pain is always an evil, but, in this parti- cular case, 1 look upon it as being.singularly so. Whatever heats, irritates, stimulates, or gives uneasiness, appears to me always to increase the disorder, and to add to the rapidity of its pro- gress; and, on the contrary, 1 have always found, that whatever tended merely to calm, to appease, and to relax, at least retarded the mis- chief, if it did no more. “ The whole plan of the chirurgic treatment of this disease is founded on a general idea of warming, invigorating, stimulating, and resisting putrefaction; and the means generally made use of are very proper lor such purpose: but I must own that I think the purpose, or intention, to be improper.” Mr. Pott afterwards observes: “ Cases ex- actly similar, in all circumstances, are not to be met with every day, but I am from experience convinced, that of two, as nearly similar as may be, in point of pain, if the one be treated in the usual manner, with a warm, stimulating, cata- plasm, and the other only with a poultice made of the fine farina seminis lini, in boiling milk or water, mixed with ung. sambuc. or fresh butter, that the pain, and the progress of the distemper, w ill be much greater and quicker in the former than in the latter. “ When the black or mortified spot has fairly made its appearance on one or more of the toes, it is the general practice to scarify or cut into such altered part with the point of a knife or lancet. If this incision be made merely to learn whether the part be mortified or not, it is altogether un- necessary, the detachment of the cuticle, and the colour of the skin, render that a decided point: if it be not made quite through the eschar, it can serve no purpose at all: if it be made quite through, as there is no confined fluid to give discharge to, it can only serve to convey such medicines as may be applied for the purpose of procuring digestion to parts capable of feeling their influence, and on this account they are supposed to be beneficial, and therefore right. “ When the upper part of the foot begins to part with its cuticle and to change colour, it is a practice with many to scarify immediately; here, as in the preceding instance, if the scarifications he too superficial, they must be useless; if they be so deep as to cause a slight hemorrhage, and to reach the parts which have not yet lost their sensibility, they must do what indeed they are generally intended to do, that is, give the me- dicines, which shall be applied, an opportunity of acting on such parts. “ The medicines most frequently made use of for this purpose arc, like the theriaca, chosen for this supposed activity; and consist of the warm, pungent oils and balsams, whose action must necessarily be to stimulate and irritate: from these qualities they most frequently excite pain, which, according to my idea of the disease, is diametrically opposite to the proper curative intention; and this I am convinced of from re- peated experience. “ The dressings cannot consist of materials which are too soft and lenient; nor are any sca- rifications necessary for their application. But I would go farther and say, that scarifications are not only useless, but, in my opinion, preju- dicial, by exciting pain, the great and chiefly to be dreaded evil in this complaint. The poultice should be also soft, smooth, and unirritating ; its intention should be merely to soften atid relax ; it should comprehend the whole foot, ankle, and part of the leg; and should always be so moist or greasy as not to be likely to become at all dry or hard, between one dressing and another.” When the toes are, to all appearance, perfectly mortified, and seem so loose as to be capable of being easily taken away, it is, in general, thought right to remove them. But, however loose they may seem, if they be violently twisted off, or the parts, by which they hang, be divided, a very considerable degree ol pain will most com- monly attend such operation, which therefore had much better be avoided ; for Mr. Pott has seen this very pain, thus produced, bring on fresh mischief, and that of the gangrenous kind. If the patient does well, these parts will cer- tainly drop off; if he does not, no good can arise from removing them. (Pott's Works.) In cases, in which the disorder is attended with a great deal of irritation, many subsequent practitioners have attested the efficacy of opium; though it has not always had the same success in their hands, when the mortification depended chiefly on constitutional debility. Dr. Kirkland observes, that we must be careful not to force the doses, especially at first; and that the me- dicine does more harm than good, when its so- porific effects go so far as to occasion delirium, take away the appetite, or cause affections of the heart. Some authors have also recommended the use of camphor, which, by reason of its narcotic virtue, lias sometimes produced good effects. Pouteau attributes considerable efficacy to it, especially, in the erysipelatous gangrene arising from wounds. In such cases, he recommends it. to be given in the dose of five grains, with a double quantity of nitre, every four hours. Few surgeons of the present day believe, that opium possesses as much power in the preceding cases, as Mr. Pott represented. While Dr. Thomson allows, that opium is much more en- titled to the attention of practitioners than bark, as an useful medicine in the treatment of morti- fication, yet, “ in saying so much in favour of opium, (lie observes,) 1 would not by any means have you to place the same reliance on its powers for stopping, cveiT the mortification of the toes and feet in old people, which appears to have been done by Mr. Pott. From the trials, which I have made, and which I have seen made by others, I cannot allow myself to believe, that its powers in stopping this particular sort of morti- fication are greater, than in stopping any other form, or variety of the disease. It is obvious, however, from Mr. Pott’s account, that his mind was strongly impressed with a very different opinion. I-lis opinion seems to me to have been formed from the results of a very small number of cases, and in complete forgetfulness of the in- valuable observations ol his preceptor Mr. Sharp,