ithilraw the ligatures in about twelve, or at eyelid be well turned outwards by an assistant; On taking oft’ the first dressings, the third the swelled Meibomian glands, and obviate opa- w ost twenty-four hours, as their longer conti- jance would produce suppuration. Beer also irticularly insists upon the utility of bringing e edges of the incision together with a suture; id both he and Langenbeck employ forceps, the ids of which have transverse pieces, calculated take better hold of the slip of skin to be re- ared. (Lchre, <£-c. B. 2, p. 114.) ly after the operation, the surgeon will find, says carpa, that the patient can open his eye with ise, and that the inverted tarsus and eyelashes ive resumed their natural position and direction. 1 the partial, or incomplete trichiasis, or that Inch only occupies a half, or a third of the -.hole length of the tarsus, and in subjects who . ive had the skin of the eyelids very loose, -.1 ..earpa has often found the wound perfectly aited on removing the first dressing. When, however, only a part of the incision is healed, while the rest seems disposed to heal suppuration and granulation, the surgeon is i cover the wound with a small piece of lint, •read with the unguentum cerussae ; and if the ire should become fiabby, it must be occa- cnally touched with the argentum nitratum, □til the cure is finished. With regard to the first form of this disease, or at, in which the eyelashes project against the /ebull, without the natural position of the tarsus :ing at all altered (a case which is fortunately ire), the accomplishment of a cure is very diffi- ilt, since neither the pulling out of the hairs, >r burning the situation of their roots, are eans at all to be depended upon for producing complete cure of the disorder; and turning the irsus out of its natural position would make j>|| ie patient liable to an irremediable dropping of ™ ue tears over the cheek, attended with a chronic lickening of the lining of the eyelid. It has aly been in youngish individuals that Beer has ;er seen the repeated and careful extraction of ie cilia effect a radical cure. (See Lehre von :n Augcnlcr. B. I, p. 121.) In the instance f this form of the disease, which Scarpa met dth, only two or three of the eyelashes inclined gainst the eye-balL He found, on turning the yeliii a little out, opposite to the situation of ae faulty hairs, that he could not, indeed, com- letely put them in their natural position; but e saw that he could thus remove them so far om the cornea, that they would not rub against , without altering the position of the eyelids so tuch as to occasion a perpetual discharge of the tars over the cheek. And, as in the patient lluded to, the skin about the eyelid was very :nse, Scarpa made an incision with the back of ie lancet, near the tarsus, three lines long, and >ok away a small piece of skin of the same ■ngth, but very little; more than one line broad. V hen the cut healed, the operation was found to nswer as well as the nature of the case would '■low, though the cure was not complete. The trichiasis being cured, something more Iways. remains to be done, for the purpose of aryecting the cause of the disease, as well as iring the disorder of the eye, occasioned by e pievious friction and irritation of the inverted urs. Ihe usual indications are to restore the ne of the vessels of the conjunctiva, to lessen city of the cornea. Some new methods of performing the ope- ration, for the cure of trichiasis, have been pro*r posed by Dr. Crampton, Mr. Saunders,, and Schreger. The following is" the account which Dr. Crampton gives of his plan, which he tried in one instance with complete success. “ Let the let the operator then, with a lancet, divide the broad margin of the tarsus completely through,, by two perpendicular incisions, one on each side' of the inverted hair, or hairs; let him then, by a transverse section of the conjunctiva of the eye- lid, unite the extremities of the perpendicular incisions. The portion of cartilage, contained within the incisions, can then, if inverted, with ease be restored to its original situation, and retained there by small strips of adhesive plaster, or, perhaps what is better, by a suspen- sorium palpebrae, adapted to the length of the portion of the tarsus, which it is intended to sus- tain, should one or two hairs be displaced without inversion of the tarsus.” (Essay on the Entro- peon, p. 55.) Mr. Travers informs us, that, in cases of a circumscribed inversion, “ produced by cicatrix from burn, or wound,’’ he has found Dr. Crainpton’s method an effectual remedy. It is added, that the complete division of the conjunct tiva and tarsal cartilage, including the inverted portion, and parallel to its border, with the aid of sticking plaster, sometimes proved sufficient. Mr. Travers also sees no objection to the entire removal of that portion of the tarsal edge, which is incorrigibly inverted from such a cause, espe- cially when combined with a preternatural growth of cilia from the Meibomian border of the tar- sus. (Synopsis, fyc. p. 356.) In one invete- rate case, which was not effectually relieved by the frequent extraction of the cilia, cauterizing the edge of the tarsus, the excision of a slip of skin, and smearing the eyelid with concentrated sulphuric acid, as proposed by Helling, (Hufc- land's Journ. St. 4, p. 115,) Schreger, with a pair of curved scissors, cut out a triangular piece of the cartilage of the eyelid at the place where the cilia were most troublesome. The great benefit derived from the operation then led the same practitioner to suggest the removal of the whole of the inverted edge of the tarsus, towards the inner canthus, where some irritation was yet maintained. The plan, though followed by severe pain, appears to have succeeded. (Chir. Versuclie, B. 2, p. 253.) Mr. Saunders entertained a favourable opi- nion of Dr. Crampton’s operation for the cure of the disease in its early stage; but, he con- tended, such a vicious bending of the tarsus inward was oft-en the consequence of repeated ophthalmy, attended with ulceration of the con- junctiva and inside of the eyelid, so that every endeavour to rectify the wrong position of the tarsus, arid restore its original direction, would be fruitless. Hence, he believed that its excision was decidedly indicated ; an operation, which is, said to be followed by no pain, nor uneasiness, and which is sure in its effect. No particular shortening of the eyelid ensues; the deformity is materiuliv lessened ; and, unless tiie cornea be