G36 HERNIA. oceasion little pain. The tumor, thus tied, is to feet cure. (I oh —) obliteration. In this method, the omentum can be covered with lint, which is to be supported never protrude outward; but, in the other, if the with one or two compresses, and a circular compression should ever be inexact, the parts bandage, secured with a scapulary. 13y the fol- slip out again, above or below, and the disorder lowing day, a slight swelling has commonly taken prevails on one side of the useless application, place in the constricted parts, the ligature is also commended as producing On the second, or third day, the parts shrink, an adhesion of the sides of the opening, either to and then the ligature becomes loose, so that a each other, or the adjacent parts. This adhesive fresh one must now be applied in the same man- process arises from the inflammation excited, and ner as the first, taking care to draw it a little > occasions a degree of firmness, not producible by more tightly. The sensibility of the parts, in- any other mode of cure. creased by the inflammation, which the constric- With respect to compression, Bichat asserts, tion of the ligature has already produced, usually that children, on whom it is employed, are renders this second ligature more painful. After miserably annoyed with it for years, while the the operation, the same dressings, as at first, are ready success of the treatment with the ligature, to be applied. The tumor soon becomes dis- is attested by a series of well authenticated cures, coloured, livid, and smaller. A third ligature, which, in Desault’s practice, amounted to the put on in the same way as the preceding ones, number of fifty. In the latter years of his prac- entirely obstructs the circulation in it. The part tice, says Bichat, many persons were also seen turns black and flaccid, and commonly falls off bringing to bis public consultations their children, on the eighth or tenth day. A small ulcer is which were immediately operated on without any left, which, being properly dressed, very soon preparation, carried home, and brought the next, heals, and leaves a cicatrix sufficiently strong to and every following day, to be dressed, till the resist the impulse occasioned by coughing, or cure was complete. other efforts of the abdominal muscles. For The children of the poor may be cured in an two, or three months, however, after the opera- hospital, with the ligature, in the space of a few tion, the child should wear a circular bandage, days. But, when compression is adopted, the in order to prevent, with still greater certainty, parents are frequently put to repeated expense, the viscera from being propelled against the ci- as the bandage wears out; and to additional loss catrix, so as to interrupt the process of nature, from the time consumed in paying the necessary whicli is now producing a gradual closure of the attention. umbilical opening. Numerous cases might'here The ancients had different modes of applying be adduced, in confirmation of the above prac- the ligature. One consisted in reducing the tice; but, several (nine) are already published in parts, and afterwards tying the integuments and the Parisian Chirurgical Journal, sac, without opening the latter at all. In the But, one may doubt, (says Sabatier) quoting other, an incision was made in the sac, either be- the article in the journal, where Desault treats of fore, or after tying it, for the purpose of being the present disease, whether the infants got rid sure, that no piece of intestine was, and could of the hernia, as it might have returned some become, strangulated in the ligature. Celsus time afterwards. To this observation, Bichat adopted the first plan ; Paulus iEgineta prefer- replies, that numerous facts remove the doubt; red the second; and he was imitated by Avicen- for, several of the subjects were brought to De- na, Albucasis, and Guy de Chauliac. sault’s public consultation, for other diseases, a The first of these methods is less painful, and long while after they had been operated upon, equally safe; for, we soon become habituated to and the great number of students, who ex- asoertaining, whether there is still any intestine amined them, all acknowledged, that the ring was in the sac, by rubbing the opposite sides of this completely obliterated, and there was no impulse bag against each other. The other, whicli is un- of the viscera in coughing, sneezing, &c. Other necessarily cruel, increases the pain, without children, in the knowledge of the surgeons of the making the method at all more successful. Some Hotel-Dieu, remained perfectly cured, and Bi- of the old practitioners simply tied the base of the chat was acquainted with two young subjects, on tumor ; others passed through it one, or two whom the operation had been performed four needles, armed with ligatures for the purpose of years, and they had had no relapse. 1 fixing such ligatures in a better manner, and, for In young infants the operation almost con- thispurpose, they even sometimes made a circu- stantly answered; but, in proportion as their lar incision. Desault’s method, which much re- age increased, it was found to be less certain, sembled that of Saviard, was simple, and is de- Bichat relates three cases, which tend to prove, scribed by Bichat as attended with little pain. that success may be completely obtained at the The child must be placed on its back, with its age of a year and a half; that the cure is difficult, thighs a little bent, and its head inclined towards when the child is four years old; and impossi- the chest. The surgeon is to reduce the pro- hie, when it is nine. (See GEuvrcs Chir. dc truded parts, and to hold.them so with his finger, Desault, par Bichat, T. 2, p. 315, <£c.) at the same time, that he raises the hernial sac, Mr. Pott notices the plan of curing the ex- and rubs its sides between his fingers, so as to be omphalos with the ligature, and expresses himself sure, that there is nothing contained in it. Being strongly against the practice in general. To certain, that the parts, which he lifts up, are only adults the plan is not applicable, particularly, the skin and sac, he is to direct an assistant to when the tumor is large. Mr. Pott was deci- surround their base several times with a waxed dedly in favor of compression, and he observes, ligature, of middling size, each turn being tied that, in young subjects, and small herniae, a band- wUh a double knot, in such a manner ns only to age, worn a proper time, generally proves a per-