678 HYDROPHOBIA. lie jumped up from his chair, and flew to the end oi the room panting for breath, and in a state of indescribable terror.” (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 1, p. 158.) Even the splashing, or run- ning! ot any liquid causes a great deal of incon- venience. As the system becomes more and more affected, the patient loses his sleep entirely, and has frequent and violent fits of anxiety and loud screaming from slight causes. The woman, wljom Dr. Powell attended, was often attacked in this way, in consequence of so trivial a circum- stance as a flv settling on her face. The noise of tea-cups, or the mention of any sort of drink, greatly disturbed her, though she was not at all agitated by the sound of her urine. The currents of air entering her room, whenever the door opened, became very distressing to her, and this more and more so. The pain in her neck be- came so great, that she could scarcely bear it to be touched ; but she made use of a looking-glass without the inconvenience, which hydrophobic patients usually suffer from the sight of shining bodies. Dr. Powell states, that the paroxysms, which this poor woman suffered, resembled those of hysteria, and increased in duration as the dis- order lasted. “ She described their commence- ment to be in the stomach, with a working and fulness there, and that a pricking substance passed up into her throat and choked her; she screamed suddenty, and grasped firmly hold of her attendants, as if voluntarily; and muscular convulsions came on, which were sometimes more, sometimes less general and violent. The causes from which these paroxysms arose, were extremely slight; the passage of a fly near her face, the attempt to swallow a pill, a stream of air, the sight of oil or wine, or any other liquids, even the sound of water, and other such circumstances, were sufficient; she now also complained of inconvenience from light, which was accordingly moderated. The effect of sounds was peculiar; for, though in the subsequent stages, their influence became more general, at this pe- riod the effect was rather proportionate to the ideas they excited in her mind, than to their violence. Bells, and other strong noises, did not agitate her, but the clatter of earthen ware, the noise of a distant pump, or any thing con- nected with liquids, produced the paroxysms in all their violence.” She could swallow fresh currants with less resistance than any thing else, taking care that they were perfectly dry. Her mind had, till now, been quite calm and com- posed, and her conversation and behaviour proper, during the intervals of the convulsive attacks. But Dr. Powell was obliged to discontinue the pills of argentum nitratum, in consequence of the sufferings, which the attempt to swallow them regularly brought on. Fifteen grains of this substance had been given without any sensible effect. The fits, and the irritability to external objects, increased. The pain shot from the back of the neck, round the angles of the jaws, the chin, and throat. At length, the paroxysms became more frequent, and, indeed, might be said to come on spontaneously: seven occurred in one hour. She looked pale and exhausted, and a tremor and blueness of her lips and fingers were observable; her pulse became weaker and more rapid, and her scalp so tender, that touch- ing it brought on convulsions. Site had, latterly, eructations of wind, and spit up some thick viscid saliva. Her urine now came away in- voluntarily, and she was more and more irritable and uncontrollable. Indeed, she passed two hours in almost constant convulsions; became extremely irritable and impatient of every thing about her, complained of failure of her sight; wished to be bled to death; her words were fewer and interrupted ; she struck, and threat- ened to bite, her attendants; had copious eructa- tions of air; discharged an increased quantity of viscid saliva with much convulsive effort; said the affection of her throat and stomach had quite left her; and continued in a general perspiration, with a weak pulse from 140 to 150. She after- wards bit some of the attendants, and was there- fore confined with a waistcoat. From this period, she had lost all control over her mind, and con- tinued for almost four hours in a paroxysm of furious insanity. She now swallowed, with an effort, near half a pint of water: but this was, in a few seconds, vomited up, with some mucus, and a greenish fluid. In this violent raving state, she continued till within two hours of her death, which took place forty-seven hours after the first marked occurrence of hydrophobia. In the course of the case, she swallowed once, or twice, a little porter; and also some cinnamon- water, with tinct. opii; but they were always vomited up. (Dr. Powell’s Case of Hydro- phobia.) It is by no means uncommon for a period to occur, when the horror of liquids undergoes a considerable diminution, or even entirely ceases; the patient quenching his thirst, and this some- times as well as if he were in perfect health, and so as to raise doubts of the existence of rabies. But, after a few hours, the dread of fluids comes on again, and with it the convulsive paroxysms, j which now become general, violent, and incessant. Dr. Cayol attended a girl, labouring under rabies, ! who was never affected with any very great dread of liquids, nor an absolute inability to swallow ! them, though she certainly disliked them, and swallowed them with difficulty. [Journ. de Med. Chir.fyc. Avril, 1811, p. 241.) Nay j patients are sometimes seen, who can manage to j swallow red wine and broth, though their aversion j to water is already beyond all control; and other patients can sometimes look at a liquid in a black I pot without inconvenience; though any fluid j offered to them in a glass will bring on a violent \ paroxysm of spasm and sense of suffocation. The j sight of tears has even been enough to bring on ? the attack. (See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 79.) _ _ . i The question has sometimes been entertained, ' whether rabies can ever exist quite unattended throughout its course with a dread of liquids? The possibility of such a case was believed by Mead and others, and an instance is recorded by Mignot, : in which the patient died, without having mani- fested any sign of hydrophobia. (See Hist, de la 1 Soc. Hoy. dc Med. an 1783, ‘2me Part, p. 48.) However, it is asserted, that a careful perusal of this case must produce a conviction, . that the disorder was not rabies; and it is added, that when the histories of this disease on record are critically investigated, none will be found complete, which do not make mention of a more or less decided aversion to fluids. It also ap-