894 OPHTHALMY. during the first stj; after being shut for any length must be admitted, and when ulr adhesive matter must be softened n?ence"’.Ule fresh butter mixed with warm milk, C,l\v'S/means of any other soft oleaginous liquor, ..rter the poultice is taken off; and before using the lotion. (P. 147.) If the eversion of the eyelids only occurs when Yet, from some statements, j lately published by Dr. Vetch, it would appear,’| that the frequency of this mode of infection rnustl be very much lessened by the circumstance oil the matter taken from the urethra, not being L capable of communicating the disease to the eyes!; of the individual, by whom such matter is secreted,! 41 _ i mi . -i .i ouui uiuilcj i» airuicu'ii. the child cries, and then goes off, nothing need theugh probably capable of doing so to the eves be done in addition to the above means. When, of another person. however, the eversion is constant, the injection In the same way, the urethra cannot be affected must be repeated more frequently than in other by the application of matter taken from the pu. oases : the eyelids put in their natural position, rulent eyes of the individual, on whom the ex- after its use; and an attendant directed to hold on them, with his finger, for some length of time, a compress dipped in the diluted aqua eampho- rata. (P. 148.) In some cases, when the inside of the eyelids has been very much inflamed, the tinctura tlie- baica, insinuated between the eye and eyelids, periment is made. At least, of these circum-i stances, there is a negative proof in some facts re- i corded by Dr. Vetch. “In the case of a soldier, f received in a very advanced stage of the Egyptian ophthalmia, in whom destruction of the««ornea^ had to a certain extent taken place, I took oc- f casion to represent the possibility of diverting! has been useful. If, after the morbid secretion the disease from the eyes to the urethra, bv ap is checked, any part of the cornea should be opaque, the unguentum bydrargyri nitrati, melted in a spoon, and applied accurately on the speck, with a fine hair pencil; or Janin’s ophthal- mic ointment, lowered and used in the same manner; may produce a cure, if the opacity be not of too deep a kind. When the local disease seems to be kept up by a bad habit, alteratives should be exhibited, particularly the black sul- phuret of mercury, or small doses of calomel. The treatment, recommended by Dr. Vetch, is as follows: if the inflammation has not ex- tended to the conjunctiva of the eye, its further progress may be checked by removing the infant to a healthy atmosphere, and washing the eye with any mild collyrium. Leeches are com- mended throughout the whole course of the com- plaint. On the first accession of the tumefac- tion, the best effect will often be produced by the application of a small portion of ointment, com- posed of lard, or butter 3yj. and x gr. of the red nitrate of mercury, without any wax. As the purulencv advances, the liquor plumbi subacetatis, he says, will be found not less serviceable, than in other instances of purulent ophthalmy. For promoting the separation of any slough, he re- commends a solution of the nitrate of silver; and for curing the relaxed state of the conjunctiva, a solution of alum, or of the sulphate of copper. (On Diseases of the Eye, p. 260.) The Purulent Ophthalmy, arising either from suppression of gonorrhoea, or from the inadvertent conveyance of gonorrhoeal matter to the eyes, is said to produce rather a swelling of the conjunctiva, than of the eyelids, which is followed by a discharge of a yellow greenish matter, similar to that of clap. The heat and pain in the eyes are considerable ; an aversion to light prevails, and, in some instances, an appear- ance of hypopion is visible in the anterior cham- ber of the aqueous humour. When the complaint proceeds from the second cause, it is described plying the discharge to the latter surface. Ac-! cordingly, some of the matter, taken from the eyes, was freely applied to the orifice of the ure- thra. No effect followed this trial, which was repeated on some other patients, all labouring under the most virulent state of the Egvptian disease, and in all the application was perfectly innocuous. But, in another case, where the matter was taken from the eye of one man, la- bouring under purulent ophthalmia, and applied to the urethra of another, the purulent inflam- mation of the urethra commenced in 36 hours afterwards, and became a verv severe attack of gonorrhoea. From the result of these cases, j (says Dr. Vetch) I could no longer admit the possibility of infection being conveyed to the eyes from the gonorrhoeal discharge of the same person. Some time after this, the improbabilitv, or rather impossibility of this effect, was rendered decisive by an hospital assistant, who conveyed the matter of gonorrhoea to his eves, without any affection of the conjunctiva being the con- sequence.” (See Vetch on Diseases of the Eye, p. 242.) Hence, this gentleman is led to refer the connexion, between gonorrhoea and ophthalmia, in the same person, to peculiarity of constitution; but the theories, on which this opinion rests, my limits will not allow me to examine. If it be actually true, that, in adults, a species of purulent ophthalmy does originate from the sudden suppression of a gonorrhoea, are we to consider the complaint so produced as a meta- stasis of the disease from the urethra to the eyes? This ophthalmy does not regularly follow the suppression of gonorrhoea; nay, it is even a rare occurrence: also, when it is decidedly known, that the purulent ophthalmy has arisen from the j infection of gonorrhoea, namely, in those in- stances, in which the matter has been incau- tiously communicated to the eyes, it appears, ! that such an affection of these organs, so pro- \ 4 it id 1 : t i i i t t t i as being less severe, than when it arises from the duced, is different from the one alluded to, inas- j t first. However, by such gentlemen, (Ware, Travers, Syc.) as have seen unequivocal instances of purulent ophthalmy excited in the second way, the disease is said to be remarkable for its vio- lence and intensity. The reality of cases of pu- rulent ophthalmy from the application of gonor- rhoeal matter to the eyes, seems supported by such a mass of evidence, that I believe, the fact much as it is slower in its progress, and less threatening in its aspect. When the eyes arc f affected, the disease of the urethra is not always suspended. (Vetch on Diseases of the Eye, p. 239.) Hence, there is good reason for sup- posing, that no metastasis takes place in this species of purulent ophthalmy, supposed to be connected with a suppressed gonorrhoea: but,