559 IIAKE-L1P. wound, so as to keep them accurately in contact, the lowest pin being introduced first, near the in- terior termination of the wound, and the upper pin afterwards about a quarter of an inch higher up. A piece of thread is then to be repeatedly wound round the ends of the pins, from one side of the division to the other, first transversely, then obliquely, from the right or left end of one pin above, to the opposite end of the lower one, &c. Thus the thread is made to cross as many points of the wound as possible, which greatly contributes to maintaining its edges in even ap- position. Any portion of the wound, above the pins, not closed by the preceding means, may now have its edges brought together with a strip t of adhesive plaster. Lastly, the ends of the pins are to be supported by small dossils of lint, placed between them and the flesh; a minute, but essential circumstance, which, as my friend, Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, reminds me, I forgot : to mention in the last edition of this work. It : is obvious, that a great deal of exactness is re- quisite in introducing the pins, in order that the . edges of the incision may afterwards be precisely . applied to each other. For this purpose, some • surgeons previously place the sides of the wound in the best position, and mark with a pen the points at which the pins' should enter, and come out again ; a method, which, as far as my ob- - servations extend, merits imitation- The pins , ought never to extend more deeply than about : two-thirds through the substance of the lip, and ’.it would be a great improvement always to have . them of a flat, instead of a round shape, and a l little curved, as this is the course which they na- turally ought to take when introduced. The steel points should also admit of being easily taken off, when the pins have been applied ; and, perhaps, having them to screw off and on is the best mode, as removing them in this way is not so likely to be attended with any sudden jerk, which might be injurious to the wound, as if they were made to pull off. In general, the pins may be safely removed in about four days, when the support of sticking plaster will be quite sufficient. After the operation, the surgeon should never omit the use of compresses and a bandage for keeping forward the cheeks. The process, just described, is what is well mown by the name of the twisted suture, which s applicable to other surgical cases, in which the jrand object is to heal some fistula or opening, jy the first intention. Mr. Sharp says, it is of jreat service in fistulae of the urethra, remaining dter the operation for the stone, in which case he callous edges may be cut offi and the lips of lie wound held together by the above method. What has hitherto been stated, refers to the nost simple form of the hare-lip, viz. to that diich presents only one fissure. W hen there re two clefts, the cure is accomplished on the ame principle ; but, it is rather more difficult of xecution ; so that the old surgeons, until the ime o( Heister, almost all regarded the opera- ">n, tor the double hare-lip, as impracticable, hough they described it, with the direction to ■pente on each fissure, just as if it were single : • de la I-aye even operated in this way with access. ( Memoiri s tie l'Acad, de Chimr^ir, " "• L 41,.) M. Louis was of opinion, that all difficulties would be obviated bv doing the opera- tion at two different times, and awaiting the per- fect cure of one of the fissures, before that of the other was undertaken. Heister had similar ideas ; but he never put the scheme in practice, nor did he even positively advise it. After all, however, experience provos, that it is not essential to perform two operations for the cure of the double hare-lip : Desault found, that when the edges of two fissures were pared off, and care taken to let one of the pins pass across the central piece of the lip, the practice answer- ed extremely well. (See QZuvres Ckir. par Bichat, T. 2, p. 201.) In cutting off the edges of the fissure, the in- cision must be carried to the upper part of the lip; and even when the fissure does not reach wholly up the lip, the same thing should be done; for, in this manner the sides of the wound will admit of being applied together more uniformly, and the cicatrix will have a better appearance. We should also not be too sparing of the edges which are to be cut off. Practitioners, says M. Louis, persuaded that the hare-lip was a division with loss of substance, have invariably advised the removal of the callous edges. But, in the natural hare-lip there is no callosity; the mar- gins of the fissure are composed, like those of the lip itself, of a pulpy, fresh-coloured, vermi- lion flesh, covered with an exceedingly delicate cuticle. The whole of the part having this ap- pearance, must be taken away, together with a little of the true skin. At the lower part of the fissure, towards the nearest commissure, a round- ed red- substance is commonly situated, which it is absolutely necessary to include in the incision. Were this neglected, the union below would be unequal, and, through an injudicious economy, a degree of deformity would remain. The grand object, however, is to make the two incisions di>- verge at an acute angle, so that the edges may be put into reciprocal contact their whole length, without the least inequality. M. Louis used to operate as follows : the pa,- tient being seated in a good light, his head is to be supported on an assistant s breast, who, with the fingers of both hands, pushes the cheeks for- ward, in order to bring the edges of the fissure near to each other. These are to be laid on a piece of pasteboard, which is to be put between the jaw and lip, and be an inch and a half long, from twelve to fifteen lines broad, and at most one line thick. The upper end should be rounded, by flattening the corners. In order to facilitate the incision, the lip is to be stretched over the pasteboard, the operator holding one portion over the right with the thumb and index finger of the left hand, while the assistant does the same thing on the left side. Things being thus disposed, the edges of the hare- lip are to be cut off with two sweeps of the bistoury, in two oblique lines, forming an acute angle above the fissure. For the removal of the edges of the hare-lip, scissars have sometimes been preferred to a knife, but, notwithstanding Desault’s partiality to them, as most convenient, (See CE/eon's Chir. par Bichat, T. 2, p. 179, ) they arc now very gener- ally disused. The pinching and bruising, which result from the action of the two blades, arc eir*