166 ANE which deserves to be remembered by every sur- geon, desirous ot not pronouncing a wrong opi- nion. 1 lie preternatural pulsations, however, which are liable to be mistaken for those of aortic aneurisms, are of various kinds, and form a subject, to which the attention of Dr. Albers of Bremen, the late Mr. A. Burns, and others, has been very usefully directed. (See Abdomen.) While thoracic aneurisms of the aorta are ac- companied with no degree of external swelling, the symptoms are all equivocal, and might de- pend on a disease of the heart, angina pectoris, phthisis pulmonalis, &c. Violent and irregular throbbings frequently occur between the fourth and fifth true ribs of the left side: the same ir- regularity of the pulse prevails as often proceeds from organic affections of the heart; the re- spiration is exceedingly obstructed; the voice altered; and, in a more advanced period of the malady, the patient is at times almost suffocated. The pressure of the internal swelling on the trachea, bronchia, and lungs, is sufficient to ac- count for this difficulty of breathing. In many instances, the irritation and compression, pro- duced by the tumor, occasion an absorption of the greater part of the lungs, and abscesses and tubercles throughout the portion which remains. Even the function of deglutition suffers inter- ruption in consequence of the pressure made on the (Esophagus, which may even be in a state of ulceration. Thus, in an example recently pub- lished, we read that “ the cavity of the windpipe was nearly obliterated from the pressure of the aneurism ; and the extremities of four of its cartilages lay in the oesophagus, having en- tered that canal, through an ulcer in its coats.” ( Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, V. 3, p. 83.) After what has been stated, it cannot be sur- prising, that, ere the disease manifests itself ex- ternally, affections of the lungs, or strictures of the oesophagus, should often be suspected. (Hodgson, p- 91.) An aneurism of the arteria innominata, not discovered till after the patient had died of suf- focation, gave rise to great difficulty of drawing air into the chest, without any other symptom calculated to throw light on the nature of the disease. The aneurismal swelling was situated behind the first bone of the sternum, and pressed upon the trachea. The front of this tube was pushed in by the tumor, so as to present a convex prominence on the inner surface, which, however, diminished its area in a very slight degree. Mr. Lawrence adduces this fact to prove, that spasm of the aircells may be the cause of great distress in breathing. “ The termination of this case (says he) is the more remarkable, inasmuch as in an- other patient, an aneurism rising out of the arch of the aorta, and pressing on the corresponding part of the trachea, so as to produce ulceration of the internal membrane, under which there was a slight appearance of coagulated blood, caused no affection of the breath at all. The person died of a different complaint, and the discovery of the aneurismal tumor, which was very small, and filled with firm laminated coagula, was quite accidental.” (bled. C'/nr. Trans. Vol. O', p. 227.) Thus, we find, in thoracic aneurisms, at least, previously to their attainment of a certain size, that no regularity prevails even with regard to difficulty of breathing, the symptom, which a priori one might suppose would invariably be present. I have mentioned, that the symptoms of thoracic aneurisms, previously to the formation of any outward swelling, often resemble those of phthisis, and the latter is sometimes actually sup- posed to be the disease, under which the patient is labouring. But, there is one distinction between the cases, which is pointed out by Mr. Hodgson, and may be of use, in combination with other circumstances, in facilitating the diagnosis; ii in phthisis, the expectoration is either puriform, or thick, and clotted; but, in aneurisms, which are not accompanied with disease in the lungs, as far as I have observed, it always consists of a thin frothy mucus.” (On Diseases of Arteries, V- 93.) According to Kreysigks experience, the cough comes on at irregular periods, is violent, and at- tended with great efforts, the expectorated matter being forced up by the vehemence. He agrees with Mr. Plodgson, respecting the general qua- lity of what is expectorated, where thoracic aneu- risms are not complicated with diseased lungs; but, he says, that the matter coughed up, also, frequently consists of masses of lymph, blended with brick-red particles of blood, which masses, when thrown into water, seem as if they were composed of a ball of stringy substances. (Ger- man Transl. of the latter work, p. 137.) From a review of many cases of aortic aneu- risms, Mr. A. Bums was inclined to think, that, when the ascending aorta is aneurismal, the breathing is more affected, than when the arch of the vessel is enlarged, but, that in the latter case, the impediment to deglutition is greatest. (On Diseases of the Heart, <lfc. p. 244.) The way, in which aneurisms of the thoracic aorta prove fatal, is subject to considerable variety. These swellings do not always destroy the pa- tient by hemorrhage : in numerous instances, the magnitude of the disease so impedes respiration, that death seems induced by suffocation, and not a drop of blood is found internally effused. Fre- quently, (to use the description of Mr. John Bell) before the awful and fatal hemorrhage has had time to occur, the patient perishes of suffer- ings too great for nature to bear. The anen- rismal tumor so fills the chest, so oppresses the lungs, compresses the trachea, and curbs the course of the descending blood, that the system, with a poor circulation of ill-oxydated blood, is quite exhausted. And, thus, though the patient is saved from the most terrible scene of all, he suffers great miseries; he experiences in his chest severe pains, which he compares with the stabbing of knives; terrible palpitations; an awful sense of sinking within him; a sound within his breast, as if of the rushing of waters ; a continual sense of his condition ; sudden start- ings during the night; fearful dreams and dan- gers of sufibcation, until with sleepless nights, miserable thoughts by day, and the gradual de- cline of an ill-supported system, he grows weak, dropsical, and expires. (See Anatomy if ilie Human Bodp, hi) John Bell, lot. 2, Edit. 3, p. 234, 2$5.) Mr. A. Burns saw two examples, in which the patients died instantaneously, though their aneurismal tumours were very small, and had