ALVINE CONCRETIONS. 9 much larger those must have been, which were seen by Scroekius and Lettsom, and weighed ten drams; that reported by Dolceus, which weighed two ounces; that recorded by Orteschi, which, besides weighing two ounces, two drains, and a half, is said to have been eight inches in circum- ference, and to have been taken out by force; that recorded by Schaarschmidt, which weighed four ounces; and lastly, the specimen cited by Plouquet, (Literatura Med. Dig.vol. \.p. 171.) the weight of which is alleged to have been half a pound. (Sumvd. Med. Walnnehm, 9 b. p. 231.) It is observed by Rubini, that although examples of alvine concretions being discharged by vomiting are not so frequent as the foregoing cases, yet they are tolerably numerous. Many of them have been collected by Schenclc, and others are recorded by Breyn, (Phil. Trans. Nr. 479.) ; by Orteschi in his Journal; by Moreali, (Dell’ Uscita di una Pietra. per la Via del Eso- phago, Modena, 1781.); by Borsieri; and by a long list of other writers, whose names and pub- lications are specified by Plouquet. (Lit. Med. Dig. art. Calculus, Vomitus, iXc.) With this class of substances, says Rubini, may also be arranged those concretions, which are found upon dissec- tion, either in the intestines or stomach, whence, probably, in time they might have been expelled. Facts of this description are recorded by Portal, Vicq d’Azyr, Jacquinelle, Chandron, &c. The cases recited by White and Hey, in which the colon was completely obstructed, I have already mentioned; and to these may be added the instance quoted by Rubini, in which Professor Meckel found the jejunum entirely blocked up by a similar substance. (See Peosteri sulla var\a origine e nalura de corpi calcolosi, che vengono talvolta espulsi dal tubo gustrico, Memoria, p. 5 and 6. 4to. Verona, 1808.) Rubini observes, that, with respect to the ori- gin of alvine concretions, whether discharged from the alimentary canal upwards or downwards, some of them appear to be formed in that canal itself, while others pass into it from other situa- tions : and they all admit of being distinguished according to the place of their origin and forma- tion into three kinds; l. hepatic, or biliary; 2. gastric, or intestinal.; and 3. (what this author terms) mixed, or hepaiico gastric. Hepatic alvine concretions, as the name implies, are derived from some point of the hepatic system ; the gastric, or intestinal, are formed within the alimentary canal; and the miied commence in the hepatic organs, but afterwards get into the bowels, where they acquire an increased size. On tiie subject of hepatic concretions, or biliary calculi, or gall-stones (as they are usually named), there is no point of this system in which they do not occasionally form. Riedlin found them in the surface of the liver. Sorbait met with a biliary calculus, as large as a goose’s egg, adhering to the peritoneal covering of the liver, and a similar case is record d by Benivenio. Tallon, Pomrne, Saurau, and Heberden have seen calculi within the substance of the liver; while Blasius, Fallo- pius, Columbus, Ruysch, Henricus ab Hcers, and Morgagni, record examples, in which the con- cretions were in the parenchyma of that organ. Plater, Reverhorst, Glisson, Morgagni, and Wal- ther, have seen them in the biliary ducts, as pro- bably were those, which Columbus and Camenicus say they found in the vena portte. Walther and Dietrick found calculi in the ductus hepaticus; Ruysch and Soemmering in the ductus eysticus; and Dietrick, Galeazzi, and Richter in the ductus choledocus. Greisel, Benivenio, Eller, Morgagni, Dargeat, and D’Hervillay, have seen calculi in- cluded in morbid cysts, attached either to the liver or the gall-bladder. The place, however, where calculi are found in the greatest number, and with most frequency, is the cavity of the gall-bladder itself. Here they are sometimes single, their size varying up to that magnitude which com- pletely fills that cavity, as Saye, (Jnurv. de Sa- vans, Sept. 1697.) Halle, and Isenflamm, have noticed: while sometimes their number amounts to a hundred, or even a thousand, of different sizes. Rubini possesses a gall-bladder, which contains above a hundred small calculi, and formerly I had a similar number, which I found in the body of a female. Van Swieten met with a hundred ; Haller, a hundred and forty; Stieber, two hun- dred ; F. Plater, three hundred; Walther, five hundred; Mentzki, seven hundred; Baillie, a thousand; Hunter, eleven hundred; Pare, six- teen hundred; Stork, two thousand; and Meckel several thousands. (Hondo, der Pathol. Anat. b. 2. p. 460.) All hepatic concretions, however, are not cal- culated to pass from the place of their origin into the intestines, but only such as are situated in the ductus hepaticus, or its main branches, in the gall-bladder, the ductus eysticus, or the duc- tus choledocus. When their size is not dis- proportionate to the diameter of the ducts, they pass with facility; but, when their dimensions are larger than those ducts can naturally admit, the latter become stretched and dilated, whence arise the sharp pains and colic which attend the dis- order, analogous to the sufferings produced by the descent of large calculi from the kidneys to the bladder. The reality of these dilatations of the hepatic ducts is proved by dissection. Pleister found the orifice of the ductus choledocus, which is usually very small, so much enlarged that it could receive a finger; and Vicq d’Azyr saw this duct enlarged through its whole extent in a similar degree. (Hist, de la Socidtt Royale de Medecine, an. 1779, p. 220.) Galeazzi, in dis- secting a body, found the ductus choledocus so dilated, that it resembled a kind of bag, in which several calculi were included." Mr. Thomas has likewise seen two cases, in which the point of the forefinger readily passed from the duo- denum into the gall-bladder. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6. p. 105.) Morgagni saw this duct in one instance large enough to hold a couple of fingers, and lie quotes many similar instances from Bezold, Trew, Verney, and others. We may conceive how dilated this tube must have been in a case recorded by Richter, where, though it was not completely obstructed, a calculus weighing three ounces and a half was lodged within it. (Rubini, op.cil.p. 7—10.) With regard to those .concretions which are distinguished by the epithet gastric, or intestinal, some are formed in the cavity of the stomacli ; the rest in one or other of the intestines. They remain for a greater or lesser period in the place of their formation, according as they happen to be lighter, or heavier, smoother, or rougher, more or less adherent, or as local, or general circum-