II2S UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OF. time after parturition, should avoid an erect pos- ture, and every kind of exertion. In the treatment of prolapsus uteri, there are two indications ; the first is to reduce the part; and the second is to keep it from falling down again. In the incomplete prolapsus, the first indica- tion is very easy of accomplishment; and, in- deed, when the patient is placed on her back, with her pelvis raised somewhat higher than her chest, the uterus often returns of itself into its natural situation again. At all events, the re- duction may be immediately effected by pushing the uterus up into the pelvis with the fingers. More difficulty generally attends the reduc- tion of a complete prolapsus. Here the same posture is to be chosen, as in the former case ; but the legs and thighs should be bent. The rectum should also be first emptied with clysters. Sometimes, indeed, every attempt at reduction fails, notwithstanding the adoption of the most vigorous measures, the use of the warm bath, purgatives, venesection, low diet, fomentations, &c. Occasionally, the part is returned after a great deal of trouble ; but, owing to the long altered state of parts, the reduction brings on worse symptoms, than resulted from the continu- ance of the prolapsus. Such a case is recorded by Richter. (Bibl. der Chir. B. 3, p. 141.) The patient’s sufferings were so much increased by the reduction, and so obstinate a constipa- tion came on, that it became absolutely neces- sary to let the uterus descend again. In any irreducible case, all that can be done, is to sup- port the swelling, and prevent its increase with a suspensory bandage, and draw off the urine with a catheter whenever requisite. In these cases, the altered course ?)f the meatus urinarius is to be remembered, and the catheter directed horizontally towards the rectum. When the displaced uterus is inflamed and considerably swelled, the attempt at reduction should be preceded by antiphlogistic remedies, the patient should be kept in bed, be put on alow regimen, be bled, take purgative medicines, use the warm bath, and drink diluent beverages, while emollient applications are made to the part itself. This plan of treatment has often been attended with complete success, in cases of pro- lapsus uteri, of long standing and considerable Size. Ruysch disapproved of making any at- tempt to reduce the uterus, while it was inflamed and swelled. He also thought that the opera- tion should be postponed when the uterus was in an ulcerated state. However, Sabatier rightly observes, that, as this complication is only acci- dental, and merely arises from the friction, to which the tumor is exposed, and the irritation of the urine, the plan of immediately replacing the part cannot be attended with any danger. On the contrary, since the cause, which produces and keeps up the ulceration, will cease, as soon as the reduction is accomplished, the sores will heal after the uterus is put into its natural situa- tion again. When a prolapkus uteri occurs in the early stage of pregnancy, this state should not let the practitioner neglect to reduce the part. Several instances are recorded, in which the reduction was siwpfssfidlv acconmlished in pregnant wo- Giraud. (Jviirn. de Medeciue, T. 4J.) When pregnancy is far advanced, or the disease is of long standing, the reduction is difficult. Per- haps, says Sabatier, it may be more prudent, in these circumstances, to let the uterus continue protruded, than to disturb the mother and fetus with reiterated attempts to reduce the part. The uterus, however, should not be left to itself- but, be well supported with a suitable bandage^ and the patient kept in bed. When the prolap- sus uteri occurs at the period of delivery, every attempt at reduction is both useless and danger- ous. In this case, the delivery of the fetus should be expedited, by gradually dilating the os tinece, which, at the same time, should be care- fully suppoited. The extraction of the placenta also requires a great.deal of caution, and it should be accomplished by introducing one hand into the uterus, with the palm turned away from the cavity of this viscus, towards the outside of the placenta, which is to be gradually separated from its edges towards'its centre. In cases of complete prolapsus uteri, Ruysch was an advocate for leaving the expulsion of the foetus, if alive, to be effected by nature; and the same writer advises us to be content with sup- porting the os tincae. But, when the child is dead, he recommends extracting it with one hand, while the uterus is supported with the other. Sabatier, however, entertains different sentiments. Fhe expulsion of the child, he says, is not less the effect of the contraction of the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, than of the womb itself. Hence, when either of these agents fails to co- operate, the delivery becomes either verv difficult, or impossible. This is exactly what happens in the present case; for the uterus having fallen down, cannot be compressed by the diaphragm and abdominal muscles. Nor can Sabatier dis- cern the reason why Ruysch should recqpimend the line of conduct to differ, according to the different state of the child. This is quite pass- ive in parturition, and contributes not in the least to its own expulsion. The second indication, or that of keeping the uterus reduced, demands the employment of astringent injections and pessaries. The uterus, in a state of prolapsus, is some- times also affected with scirrhus and cancer. A case of this description was met with by Ruysch ; and, very recently, a woman whose uterus was cancerous, and in a state of complete prolapsus, without any inversion, was attended by Langen- beck, who succeeded in removing the diseased organ with a knife, and the patient recovered. According to this author’s description, after the vagina had been separated from the uterus, the latter organ was detached from the peritoneum, without the latter membrane being opened, a small portion of the fundus uteri being left, however, as it appeared quite sound. The bleed- ing was very profuse, and required the use of the needle and ligatures. The ovaries and di- vided ligamenta rotunda were found connected with the removed portion of the uterus. (Bill, fur die Chir. B. 1, p. 551, 12mo. Hannover, 1018. Saviard, Observ. Chir. \'2nio. Paris, 1702. J. G. Freund, Dc Novo artificio cm- rundi procidcntiam Uteri, Francof. ad Viadn