(ESOPHAGUS. 8G2 of different affections, to which the organs of de- glutition are liable, or of other diseases, which affect parts in the vicinity of the pharynx and (esophagus. The object of the present article is not the consideration of all the diseases, which may produce dysphagia, as a symptom, but chiefly to notice this effect, as depending upon spasm, paralysis, or some morbid change of structure affecting the pharynx or oesophagus. Spasmodic dysphagia, as Baron Boyer has re- marked, principally occurs in nervous individuals, hysterical females, and hypochondriacal men. It is sometimes an attendant on fevers; it is declared to be constant in hydrophobia, and epilepsy, and occasionally present in particular forms of mania. ( Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. 151.) How- ever, with respect to hydrophobia, the foregoing assertion should be received with some qualifica- tion, for reasons so fully detailed in another part of this work (see Hydrophobia), that it is un- necessary here to dwell upon the subject. Spas- modic dysphagia is said also to be sometimes a consequence of taking cold drink, after a violent • fit of anger; of strong impressions on the ima- gination ; of worms in the stomach, &c. When the spasm is situated in the pharynx and upper part of the oesophagus, and is con- siderable, neither solids nor liquids can be swal- lowed, and the patient has great pain and a sense of constriction in his throat. When he tries to swallow any thing soft, or even fluid, he is seized with acute pain, insufferable nausea, and violent agitation of the whole frame. In this case, the spasm is never restricted to the pharynx and upper portion of the oesophagus, but extends to other organs, the inability of swallowing coming on in the midst of numerous other spasmodic symptoms, exceedingly complicated, and some- times of a very alarming nature. When it is the middle, or lower, part of the oesophagus, which is concerned, as is frequently the case in hys- terical women, the food passes through the pha- rynx and unaffected portion of the oesophagus with tolerable facility; but, as soon as it reaches the seat of the spasm, it is either stopped, or de- scends further with great difficulty and effort. Liquids, especially when warm, and swallowed slowly in small quantities at a time, usually pass down with more ease, than solid substances. When the matter to be conveyed into the stomach reach.es the point of obstruction, the generality of patients are attacked with pain ex- tending along the spine between the shoulders, and sometimes shooting to the stomach, which is considerably disturbed, and often discharges its contents. In some cases, however, no such pain is experienced, and whatever the patients try to convey into their stomachs, regurgitates quietly into their mouths. Although spasmodic dys- phagia is mostly complicated with other marks of disorder of the nervous system, it is some- times unattended with any particular impair- ment of the health. (Boyer, T. 7,p. 152.) As the treatment of spasmodic affections of the pharynx and oesophagus belongs rather to the physician than the surgeon, I shall be very brief on the subject. The removal of the cause of the infirmity, that is to say, of the particular state of the mind, or constitution, giving rise to cured an hysterical woman of a difficulty and dread of swallowing solid food by attending her, at her meals twice every day for a mouth, and gradually convincing her of the absurdity of her apprehension of being suffocated by attempting to swallow solid aliment. ( Vol. cit. p. 15-1.) i Sauvages makes mention of an hysterical female, whose difficulty of swallowing was cured by a regimen consisting of regular exercise, cold bathing, and milk-diet. The most successful remedies, however, are said to have been cam- i phor in large doses, and opium taken in draughts, or pills, or administered in clysters; blisters and cupping-glasses applied to the nape of the neck, or to the epigastrium. Anodyne embrocations are also stated to have been useful. At the pre- sent day, the common idea, that many anomalous affections depend upon disorder of the liver and digestive organs, leads to the frequent employ- ment of the compound calomel pill, and decoct, sarsaparillae, with draughts of senna, rhubarb, and gentian pro re nata. Dysphagia may originate from a weakened, or paralytic state of the muscular fibres, which enter into the structure of the pharynx and oesophagus. The affection may be either symptomatic, or idiopathic. The first case frequently occurs in febrile diseases, and is generally set down by writers, as a very unfavourable omen. The idio- pathic form of the complaint may be complete, or incomplete, and is chiefly seen in persons of advanced age, though occasionally the patients are young and in the prime of life. The causes may be said to be little, or not at all understood, and the only remark, which can be safely made respecting them, is, that they are usually con- nected with constitutional derangement With regard to the symptoms of paralysis of the oesophagus, when the disorder is complete, deglutition is absolutely prevented, and, if the patient tries to swallow', the fond lodges in the pharynx, and sometimes produces violent fits of coughing. Some patients eat solid substances with moderate facility; but, find more or less difficulty in taking liquids. Others can swallow' hastily a large quantity of fluid at a time, yet, cannot drink slowly and a little at once. Mor- gagni relates an instance of still greater sin- gularity, which was an ability to swallow all kinds of food very well, except the last mouth- ful, which always remained in the oesophagus until the next repast. (Dc Srd. ct Cans. Morb. Epist. 2?,art. 1 4.) In cases of dysphagia from paralysis the patient suffers no pain, nor sense of choking; if the neck be examined, no hardness, nor swelling can be felt; and a probang descends down thb gullet w'ithout the slightest impediment. (Boyer, T. 7, p. 158.) the spasm, is the principal thing, at which the practitioner should first aim. Thus, Boyer In its duration and termination, dysphagia from paralysis presents considerable variety: the complete paralysis sometimes proves rapidly fatal, not however, as I conceive, on account of the affection of the oesophagus alone, but other complications, and the exhaustion arising from inadequate nutrition. Thus, Tulpius relates an instance, in which a woman died on the seventh day from the commencement of the inability to swallow, notwithstanding every endeavour was made to support her with nourishment thrown up the r< ctum, which was the only thing that could be done, as she would not allow a tube to