1 GOO SURGERY. tion of the diseases, which are regarded as strictly chirurgical, but also, that there are few diseases, which coine under the care of the physician, in which morbid affections, requiring the manual aid, or practical skill of the surgeon, do not fre- quently occur. * “ The treatment of febrile and internal inflam- matory diseases, it will be allowed, belongs exclu- sively to the province of the physician, wherever the distinction between physician and surgeon has been introduced, and is rigidly observed; yet, in some species of fevers, and in all internal inflammatory diseases, blood-letting is often the principal, if not the only, remedy that is required. JBut this is an operation, however urgent the necessity for it be, which from engagement the physician cannot, and, from the fear of degrading his province of the profession, will not perform. Retention of urine not unfrequently takes place in symptomatic febrile diseases, and this is an affection which does not always yield to the use of Internal remedies; but it is an affection also, from the painful uneasiness, which it immediately excites, as well as from the danger which it threatens, that will not admit of delay. When internal remedies, therefore, fail in relieving the patient, the urine must be speedily drawn off by means of a chirurgical operation; otherwise inflammation, mortification, and rupture of the bladder, must necessarily ensue. Febrile and internal inflammatory affections terminate not unfrequently in the formation of fluids, which it is necessary to let out by a chirurgical operation; and abscesses, fistulou; openings, and ulcers are formed, which require the aid of the surgeon. In patients, also, affected with severe febrile dis- eases, from being long fixed down to their beds in one position, some of the parts of the body, upon which they rest, occasionally acquire a disposition to mortify, larger or smaller portions of the skin and subjacent cellular membrane becoming dead, separate from the living parts, and sores are formed, which are but too often the subject of unavailing chirurgical practice. To employ, in the different stages of this species of mortifi- cation, from its first commencement to the com- plete separation of the dead parts, and the forma- tion of a new skin, the appropriate external and internal remedies, requires a greater share of chirurgical skill than can reasonably be expected in those who make a profession solely of physic. Unhappy, therefore, must be the lot of that patient, who, in circumstances similar to those which I have described, has the misfortune to have for his sole medical attendant, a physician ignorant of surgery. “ But (continues Professor Thomson), if a knowledge of surgery be necessary to the stu- dent who intends to practise physic, the know- ledge of physic, on the other hand, is no less necessary to him who intends to devote his at- tention exclusively to the profession of surgery; for, indeed, there arc few chirurgical diseases, which are not in some period, or another, of their existence, accompanied by morbid affec- tions of the same nature with those which fall properly, and most frequently under the care of the nhvsician. It will only be necessary to nal injury, or has occurred spontaneously in the body from internal disease; the hectic fever, su- pervening to long continued processes of suppu- ration ; the febrile state, and other morbid affec- tions, which are sometimes brought on by the too sudden and injudicious use of mercury; bilious fevers, and the various derangements of the digestive organs, which are sometimes the cause, and at other times the consequence, of local diseases; the nervous affections, such as apoplexy, convulsions, paralysis, and mania, which arise not unfrequently from injuries of the head; and locked jaw, or tetanus, which, in warm climates particularly, is so very liable to be in- duced by punctured wounds. These are morbid affections, the proper study and treatment of which, when they occur without local injur}’, are supposed to belong to the physician, rather than the surgeon; but occurring very frequently as they do in chirurgical diseases, and always mo- difying, or aggravating, the ellfects of these dis- eases, ignorance of their nature, relations, and modes of cure, is not only inexcusable, but highly criminal in the practitioner, who ventures to undertake their treatment.” (Thomson'* Lectures on Inflammation, Introduction, Also J. 11. C. Bollman, Tentamen, ostendens Chi- rurgidm a Mcdicina fiaud impune separari, 1 c2mo. Rintel, 1803.) From what has been stated, I think it very certain, that there never can be a complete sci- entific division of the healing art into physic and surgery; and that all attempts to distinguish the numerous diseases and injuries of the human body into medical and surgical cases, must, in a great measure, be decided by custom, and the mutual agreement of practitioners, rather than by any rules, or principles, which are at all consistent. In the earliest periods, the same men culti- vated the whole field of medicine. The writings of Hippocrates, Galen, Cels us, Paulus (Egineta, Albucasis, &e. prove, that the Greeks, Romans, and Arabians never had an idea of the human body being susceptible of only two classes of diseases, one of which formed the province of physic, while the other constituted a separate and distinct science called surgery. All these ancient authors treat successively of fevers, fractures, wounds, and nervous diseases, and none of them appear to have supposed, that there could be any disorders which really deserved to be called ex- ternal and others internal. Nor was it until the middle of the twelfth century, that the ecclesiastics were restrained from undertaking any bloody operation. Surgery was then re- jected from the universities, under the empty pretext, “ Ecclesia abhor ret. a sanguineoften expressed, in its decrees, as Professor Thomson well observes, but never acted upon, except in this instance, by the church of Rome. It is to this epoch that we must refer the true separation of physic from surgery, the latter being aban- doned to the laity, who, in those ages of barba- rism, were totally illiterate. It is an observation made by the celebrated Bichat, that two things are essentially necessary to form a great surgeon, viz. genius and expe- rience. One traces for him the way, the other