HERNIA. The sac of the femoral hernia is said by Mr. A. Cooper to be immediately covered by n kind ot membranous expansion, consisting; of con • densed cellular substance, and named by him, thefoscia propria. According to the same gen- tleman, a weak aponeurosis derived from the su- perficial fascia of the bend of the thigh, also covers the swelling, and is described as lying immediately beneath the skin and adipose sub- stance. Under this fascia is the condensed cel- lular substance or fascia propria, then some adi- pose substance, and lastly the true peritonacal sac itself. It is of infinite use to remember these circumstances in operating, lest one should think the hernial sac divided when it is not so. All late writers on hernia, have remarked how very small the aperture is, through which the viscera protrude in the femoral rupture; how much greater the constriction generally is, than in the bubonocele ; consequently, how much more rapid the symptoms are; how much less fre- quently the taxis succeeds; and how much more dangerous delay proves. (See A. Cooper, Hey, Lawrence, &;c.) Though the crural ring is almost always small, yet, in a few instances, in which the tumor is large, and of long standing, it becomes very capacious, j list as the opening often becomes, through which the inguinal hernia protrudes. Dr. Thomson, of Edinburgh, Mr. Hey, and Mr. Lawrence, have related examples of this kind. The remarks already made, concerning the treatment of hernia, before having recourse to the knife, are all applicable to the present case, and need not be repeated. In attempting to re- duce the femoral hernia by the taxis, the surgeon should recollect, however, that relaxing Poupart’s ligament, and the femoral fascia, is of the highest consequence. Plence, the thigh should be bent, and rolled inwards. The pressure ought also to be first made downwards and backwards, in order to push the swelling off Poupart’s ligament; and afterwards, the parts should be propelled upwards, so that they may return through the crural ring. OPERATION FOR THE FEHORAL, OR CRURAL HERNIA. Mr. A. Cooper says, “ the incision of the in- teguments is to be begun an inch and a half above the crural arch, in a line with the middle of the tumor, and extended downwards to the centre of the tumor below the arch. A second incision, nearly at right angles with the other, is next made, beginning from the middle of the inner side of the tumor, and extending it across to the outer side, so that the form of this double in- cision will be that of the letter T reversed.” The angular flaps are, of course, to be next dis- sected off, and reflected. The making of two incisions, however, is not deemed necessary by the majority of surgeons; and, in all the numerous operations which I saw performed in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, during a space of nearly fifteen years, a transverse wound was not found necessary. The division of the skin should begin about an inch above the crural ring, and be continued obliquely downwards and outwards. In this manner, we cut exactly over the place, where the incision of the stricture should he made. “ The first incision (says Mr. A. Cooper) exposes the superficial fascia, which is given off by the external oblique muscle, and which covers the anterior part of the hernial sac; but, if the patient is thin, and the hernia has not been long formed, this fascia escapes observation, as it is then slight and delicate, and adheres closely to the inner side of the skin. When this fascia is divided, the tumor is so far exposed, that the cir- cumscribed form of the hernia may be distinctly seen ; and a person, not well acquainted with the anatomy of the parts, would readily suppose that the sac itself was now laid bare. This, however, is not the case, for it is still enveloped by a mem- brane, which is the fascia, that the hernial sac pushes before it, as it passes through the inner side of the crural sheath. This membrane, the fascia propria, is to be next divided longitudi- nally from the neck to the fundus of the sac; and if the subject is fat, an adipose membrane lies between it and the sac, from which it may be distinguished, by seeing the cellular membrane passing from its inner side to the surface of the sac. , “ This is, in my opinion, the most difficult part of the operation; for the fascia propria is very liable to be mistaken for the sac itself; so that, when it is divided, it is supposed, that the sac is exposed, and the intestine is laid bare; following upon this idea, the stricture is divided in the outer part of the sac, and the intestine, still strangulated, is pushed, with the unopened sac, into the cavity of the abdomen. “ The hernial sac being exposed, is to be next opened; and, to divide it with safety, it is best to pinch up a small part of it between the finger and thumb; to move the thumb upon the finger, by which the intestine is distinctly felt, and may be separated from the inner side of the sac; and then to cut into the sac, by placing the blade of the knife horizontally. Into this opening, a di- rector should be passed, and the sac opened from its fundus to the crural sheath.” (On Crural and Umbilical Hernia.) Sometimes the contents of the hernia, thus exposed, admit of being returned, without the further use of the knife. When this object, how- ever, cannot be readily done, the protruded parts should never suffer injury from repeated manual attempts; and it is safest to divide the stricture at once. The merit of having first proposed the safest plan of cutting Poupart’s ligament, even before surgeons were aware of the parts which really form the strangulation, is assigned by Gimbernat to Mr. B. Bell, who introduced his finger below Poupart’s ligament, between the ligament and the intestine, (an evident proof, says Gimbernat, that there was no strangulation there;) he then made a very superficial incision from above down- wards, into the thickest part of the ligament to its lower edge; and, without cutting quite through it, he continued his incision about an inch. He rested the back of the scalpel upon his finger, which served as a guide to the instrument, and, at the same time, as a defence to the intestine. The incision, however, having been continued for an inch, would, as Gimbernat remarks, in- evitably cut the internal edge of the crural arch. Now, cutting this, only for a few lines, gives sufficient room for the easy reduction of the