*80 LITHOTOMY. it was fixed in the extremity of the ureter; lie shook it occasionally with a pair of forceps; and, lastly, it fell into the bladder, whence it was ex- tracted without difficulty. It resembled a cu- cumber in shape, and its large extremity had been lodged in the ureter, from which it could only be gradually removed. Sabatier believes, that a case of this description, which must be very uncommon, is the only one, in which there is any prospect of removing an encysted stone with success. In other examples, he conceives, that it is more prudent to leave the stone, and let the wound heal, than expose the patient to an almost certain death by repeated attempts to extract it. (Medccinc Optratoire, T. 3, p. 190, 194, Edit. 2.) Desault employed a sort of concealed knife, called a coupe-bride, for opening the cavity, or cyst; and he has recorded one example, in which he thus successfully extracted from a woman, aged sixty-two, a stone, lodged at the insertion of the ureter into the bladder. The bistoury', used by Garengeot, Desault did not consider a safe instrument, as the stones are round, and the knife may slip, and pierce the bladder; an objection to which, he says, the coupe-bride is not liable. No injury can be re- ceived from its point, as the blade is concealed, nor can any part be divided, except what the sur- geon intends. If the incision should not be com- pleted at first, the blade may' be withdrawn, the semicircular notch of the instrument pushed more forward, and the incision prosecuted to any ex- tent. This instrument was invented for the ex- press purpose of dividing membranous bands in the rectum; but, it was afterwards employed with the greatest success for the excisiofl of dis- eased tonsils, and fungous tumors situated in cavities. The blade is so contrived, that when it passes through the semicircular notch, it firmly fixes the parts which are to be divided : a thing, that cannot be done either with the scissars, or bistoury, as the moveable parts recede, and render the section difficult. (See Desault’s Parisian Chirurgicale Journal, Vol. 1, p. 33, S[C.) A stone perfectly encysted would not be ex- pected to produce symptoms equal in severity to those, which arise from an extraneous body ac- tually in the cavity of the bladder. And, yet, in Houstet’s interesting dissertation, several cases are recorded, which prove, that encysted stones do sometimes cause the same distressing symptoms, which proceed from the presence of a loose cal- culus in the bladder. Hence, the patients were sounded, and in consequence of the sacs, or pouches, in which the stones lay, not being en- tirely closed, the calculi were distinctly struck by the instrument, and lithotomy attempted. It de- serves particular remark, also, that, in a large proportion of these cases, the pouches, or cysts, were not single, but numerous, occupying different parts of the bladder. In some dis- sections, referred to by Iioustet, cysts of this kind were found, noL containing any stones what- ever ; a circumstance, that would rather lead one to suspect, that, in general, the formation of these sacs precedes that of the calculi commonly found in them. (See Observations sin- let Pierres Enleistccs ct Adheventcs a la I cssie par M. Iioustet, in Mein. dc I .lead, de ( hir. T. 2, p. 368, Edit, in 1 'lino.) OF SOME PARTICULAR METHODS AND IN- STRUMENTS. M. Foubert, a very eminent surgeon at Paris, devised and practised a plan of his own, which, however, has not been considered by others, as worthy of being imitated. The patient having retained his urine, so as to distend his bladder, an assistant, with a convenient bolster, presses the abdomen a little below the navel, in such a manner, that by pushing the bladder forwards, he may make that part of it protuberant, which lies between the neck and the ureter. The ope- rator, at the same time, introduces the fore-finger of his left hand up the rectum, and drawing it down towards the right buttock, pushes in a tro- car on the left side of the perinaeum, near the great tuberosity of the ischium, and about an inch above the anus. Then the trocar is to be carried on parallel to the rectum, exactly between the erector penis and accelerator urina; muscles, so as to enter the bladder on one side of its r.eck. As soon as the bladder is wounded, the operator withdraws his fore-finger from the anus. In the upper part of the cannula of the trocar, there is a groove, the use of which is to allow some urine to escape, immediately the instru- ment enters the bladder, so that the trocar may not be pushed in any further; but, its principal use is for guiding the incision. As soon as the urine began to flow, Foubert, retracting the tro- car a little, wfithout drawing it quite out of the cannula, introduced the point of a slender knife into the groove in the cannula; and by the guid- ance of this groove he ran it onwards into the bladder, and was awrare of the knife having ac- tually entered this viscus, by the urine flowing still more freely. Then raising the knife from the groove, he made his incision, about an inch and a half in length, through the neck of the bladder, by moving the knife from that point, at which it had entered upwards towards the pubes. And, finally, by moving the handle more largely, than the point of the knife, he opened the outer part of the w'ouud to whatever extent the size of the stone seemed to require, and then, withdraw- ing the knife, he introduced a blunt gorget to guide the forceps. An effort was made by Thomas to improve this method; but he failed, and it was never much adopted. The inability of many bladders to bear being distended, is an insuperable objec- tion ; for, without this, the trocar is liable to pass between the bladder and rectum, and even through the bladder into the pelvis. (Mcmoircs de l’Acad, dc Chir. 663, Vol. 1. Lc Bran's Purulltlc. Sharp's Critical Inquiry. J. Hells Principles, Vol. l2.) In the year 1748, Frere Gome’s method of performing the lateral operation began to attract considerable notice. 1 he operation was done with a particular instrument, called the litfwtomc cache, by means of which the prostate gland and neck of the bladder were divided, from within outwards. The lithotomc cache is entitled to much attention, because it is still generally used in several parts ot the continent, and sometimes in this country, especially, by the surgeons of the Westminster Hospital. “In France (says