fl^'l rJ Mr! to calculi; but, whether this is the fact, or whe- ther the circumstance can be satisfactorily ex- plained on another principle, viz. the facility with which any calculi of moderate size are ge- nerally discharged through the short and capa- cious meatus urinarius, are questions perhaps not yet completely settled. Infants, and children to the age of twelve, or fourteen, are very liable to stone. However, it is asserted by Delpech, that, at this period ot life, relapses are unfrequent; that is to say, an entirely fresh stone is hardly ever formed again ; and, if a return of the complaint happens, the quickness of its recurrence, and an attentive ex- amination of the calculus, will mostly prove, either that the second stone has formed round a fragment of the first, left behind, or that it ex- isted when the former one was taken out, but was not discovered. I am not inclined myself to put much faith in this statement, because it is hardlv credible, that the calculous diathesis of childhood can be at all diminished by the circum- stance of there having already been one calculus, and of the patient having had the bladder opened for its removal. Dr. Marcet thinks, that the disorder is fre- quent only among the children of the poor classes; and that in those of the higher ranks, or even of the lowest classes, provided they arc •well fed, the same frequency is not observed. “ In the Foundling Hospital, for instance, within the last 27 years, during which 1151 children have been admitted, only 3 cases of stone have occurred, all of which were among children while at nurse in the country. And, in the Military Asylum at Chelsea, which contains about 1250 children, and into which upwards of 6000 of them have been already admitted, no more than one single case of stone has occurred.” (See Marcel’s Essay on Calculous Disorders, p. 36.) However, supposing that the foregoing statement refers to operations for stone, and that the average number of operations for the popu- lation of Great Britain and Ireland, is annually about 1 for each 100,000 inhabitants, the infer- ence, drawn by Dr. Marcet, which also does not . agree with later statistical reports, cannot be re- ceived, because, in the total number of children, • specified, as having been admitted into the above i charities, even when every allowance is made for ’ the time comprised in the calculation, the pro- I portion of operations is far beyond the average, with reference to the population in general. And, that stone cases are more numerous in the chil- dren of the poor, than in those of the higher classes, is a fact, which perhaps may be explained by the recollection, that the mass of the popula- tion consists of the poor and laborious classes. In the period of life, between the age of twelve, or fourteen, and that of fort}', the liability to stone in the bladder, is much less, than in in- fancy, childhood, or old age. And, no doubt, many of the cases, which do present themselves in adults, or middle aged individuals, either began at an earlier period of life, or are owing to some extraneous nucleus. ' According to Delpech, in old men, who are particularly subject to calculi, the disposition to the return of the disease always continues during life; and, hence, in them, relapses are frequent. UllINARY CALCULI. 1101 The following table, collected by Dr. 1 rout. exhibits the proportion of stone cases be ore an after puberty, and of their occurrence in t te i - ferent sexes: sting of j Females.! 44 ’c7j C 5R o ^ r—I O & • O -r o *0 id H A o <0 > CC l'- G j- CN CN iQ o cn •-a <—< t- CD G5 O O ►4 r—< r—* oo 1" <D r-a e tn t-* 'O C3 O c d C/J u d 0) UJ > o -O <1 Thus, nearly one half of the, -whole number of stone cases occur before the completion of the 14thyear; and it appears also from Mr. Smith’s valuable reports, that there is an evident in- crease in the number of cases, about the age of 40 years. (See Front on Gravel, <§r. p. 210; and R. Smith, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10.) Dr. Marcet has estimated the comparative frequency of the disease in various countries, and in the different stations of life, and tried to ascertain, whether its frequency be influenced by varieties of climate, or situation, or by peculi- arities in our habits and occupations. He in- stituted inquiries at all the great hospitals of the metropolis, in the hope of getting at some useful records concerning the vast number of patients, on whom lithotomy had been performed in those establishments. In London, he found it impos- sible to obtain all the particulars of such cases, as no entry of them had been preserved. The Norwich hospital, however, afforded him some details, which are interesting. All the calculi, which have been extracted in that hospital for 44 years, viz. from 1772 to 1816, and which amount to 506, have been carefully preserved, with the circumstances annexed to each stone, and the event of the operation distinctly recorded. Dr. Marcet has given the results ot these re- cords in the following table: ( Precis det Mai, Chir. T. 2, p. 10.1, flr.)