846 NECROSIS. which death has extended; limits, which are well understood only by nature, and of course can be measured only by her. Art would incur great risk of either going beyond them, or else of not reaching them at all. Perhaps, it may be deemed unsafe to confide the process of separa tion, or exfoliation, to nature. But, in what other manner could it be more safely accom- plished, without hemorrhage, or pain to the pa- tient—without any risk of a recurrence of in- flammation, or of a fresh necrosis? Is there reason to fear, that, when every thing is left to nature, the separation cannot be finished till after a very long period of time? It is true, says Weidmann, that the process frequently re- quires a considerable time; but, as the vitality of the bones is not possessed of much energy, and their component parts strongly cohere, slowness is inevitable in an operation, which de- pends entirely upon the vital power. What is it then which surgery can do to accelerate the process ? Wiil any of the above-mentioned topical ap- plications have this effect ? They are put upon the inert surface of a dead piece of bone, in which no vital power, or action, can be again ex- cited When acrid, they prove irritating, in- flaming, and destructive of the neighbouring flesh, without any utility—and cause pain to the patient, which is compensated by no good. Would the perforations, recommended by Celsus, Belloste, and many others, have the desired effect? If, says Weidmann, they are confined to the dead bone, they cannot have more effect, than the scarifications, which were formerly- practised by ignorant surgeons in cases of gan- grene ; and, if they extend to the living bone, this will be injured, or at least run the risk of being so. Lastly; Weidmann demands, if the separation can be accelerated by the actual cau- tery, which cannot act upon every point of the necrosis, and which, unless applied with the greatest precautions, will burn the subjacent parts, and bring on a new attack of inflammation, without fcywarding the exfoliation in the smallest degree ? Of what use can rasping and scraping instru- ments be, which act merely upon the dead part ? Or will the gouge, and other cutting instruments, do more good? They cannot take away the whole of the dead portion, without injuring the adjacent living bone, and oausing a risk of an- other necrosis. And, if they leave any pieces of the old dead bone behind, nature will be as long in effecting the separation of these, as she would have been in detaching the entire necrosis. Weidmann mentions a case, which occurred in the hospital of St. Roch at Mentz. A man’s )e<rs were seized with mortification, in conse- quence of exposure to cold ; the whole of the dead parts separated ; and the bones were sawn through on a level with the living flesh. A por- tion of the end of each bone, however, was after- wards thrown off altogether by nature, and Weidmann thence concludes, that the previous use of the saw had been fruitless. Weidmann then cites another case of mortification of the leg and half of the thigh, which was the conse- quence of a putrid fever. The leg sloughed away, leaving the lower portion of the thigh- bone uncovered and projecting. Under a toniil > plan of treatment, this part of the bone spontaneM : ously separated. As, however, a considerablj) i quantity of integuments had been destroyed, tl» ulcer was slow in healing; but, it cicatrized Jlj last, and the young woman continued well loni afterwards. Weidmann has quoted the memorable case, i|; i which Mr. Charles White first sawed off thd : upper part of a diseased humerus. (See putation.) As, in this instance, nature aal* complished of herself the separation of anotheil ■ dead portion of the same bone, two months aften i the operation, Weidmann seems disposed tiff think the cure would have happened equally weJ without it. In cases of slight superficial necrosis, surgeons r have frequent opportunities of trying every kintj, - of topical application ; and when the cure takes* r place, during the use of any of them, the benefUl is ascribed to whatever happens to be in useti] But, says Weidmann, in numerous more serious}.- examples of necrosis, it is impossible to mak«r these applications reach the whole surface of the dead bone; but, notwithstanding this eircum-4i stance, the separation is not impeded. Som«ji exfoliations happen, withouf our knowing of them I occurrence, and without a thought having beei*|f entertained of promoting them by any vauntetl applications. We even see necroses separate,^v whose situation rendered them inaccessible tc*> i our remedies; such are the necroses, which*j i' occur within the long bones, and comprehendjp the whole of their cylindrical shaft or body., jia What surgeon shall presume to boast of his hav4|i ing effected by topical applications, the separa- lion of the whole lower jaw-bone; a thing, which.tf! nature has very frequently accomplished? And,, i when, as often happens, the entire diapbysis ofjl \ the thigh-bone, tibia, or other long bone, comes.' away; or, split longitudinally, such bone loses a half of its cylinder; how is it possible for any topical applications to reach every point, at which the separation occurs ? The internal remedies, such as assafoetida, madder, sarsaparilla, hemlock, belladonna, ono- pordum, lime-water, &e. recommended by nu- merous practitioners, have in reality no direct efficacy in promoting the separation of necroses : if, says Weidmann, they do any good, it can only be by their tonic and alterative qualities, or ra- . ther by keeping the patient amused, so as to gain the requisite time for the completion of the process of exfoliation. The employment of all these ineffectual means, Weidmann conceives, must have originated from ignorance of the pro- cess, followed by nature in separating dead por- tions of bone, and from ascribing to the arterial • pulsations, or the power of the granulations, what certainly depends upon the action of the absor- bent vessels. A question here naturally presents itself— Would there be any utility in exciting by stimu- lants the action of the lymphatic vessels, in order to accelerate the separation, of which it is the efficient cause? Weidmann thinks, that very beneficial effects might result from the plan. But, he asks, what means should be used for this object? Cold? I Purgative medicines? Repeated vomits? Squills?