582 HEM HEM account of the cures performed by Fournier, on several subjects, affected with hemeralopia. The first were three soldiers, to whom an emetic was administered, after Heeding them. The next day, as they also complained of a heaviness in their heads, and nausea, the bleeding and emetic were repeated. This expedient removed all the above symptoms, and these three soldiers were no longer unable to see in the night-time. Four- nier met with equal success, in treating eight other soldiers upon the same plan, who were affected with the same disease, and belonged to the same garrison. Night-blindness is sometimes congenital and therefore constitutional, and altogether beyond the reach of any curative measure. It is said sometimes to be hereditary, and the writer of the article Nyctalopia in Dr. Rees’s Cyclopaedia was acquainted with an instance, in which it oc- curred to two children of the same family. A case of congenital nyctalopia, which had con- tinued many years without change, and independ- ently of any disease, is related by Dr. Parham. (See Mccl. Ohs. and Inquiries, Vol. 1. p. 122, note.') Scarpa notices, that Pellier (Rccueil de Mem. ct Obs. sur I'CEil. Ohs. 132.) cured Captain Micetti of an hemeralopia by repeated doses of tartar-emetic, a seton in the nape of the neck, and cooling, aperient beverages. Pellier also assures us, that he has several times cured the recent imperfect amaurosis, by means of small doses of tartar-emetic, and topical aromatic fu- migations. (Observ. 1-36—138.) The method of treatment, which Mr. Bamp- field adopted, is certainly quite simple. “ A succession of blisters to the temples (says he) of the size of a Crown, or half-crown piece, applied tolerably close to the external canthus of the eye, has succeeded in every case of idiopathic he- meralopia, which I have seen; &c. The first application of blisters commonly enables the pa- tient to see dimly by candle-light, or perceive objects, without the power of discriminating what they are. In some slight cases, that admitted of easy cure, the first application has succeeded perfectly. The second application of blisters commonly enables the patient to see by candle- light distinctly, perhaps by bright moon-light, and even half an hour after sunset, or the sight is restored for short periods during the night, and is again abolished. The second application very often effects a perfect recovery. The third, fourth, or fifth applications in succession, ge- nerally produce a complete recovery, where the first, or second, have failed; but, some rare instances of very obstinate hemeralopia have required even ten successive blisters to each temple; or, instead of using them in succession, a perpetual vesicatory has been formed on each temple, and maintained, until a cure has been accomplished, an event, which has generally fol- lowed in a fortnight.’’ (Bampficld in Mcdico- Chir. Tram. Vol. 5, p. 47, 48.) In some cases, shades over the eyes were worn during the treat- ment, and a certain time after the cure. The patients were also often directed to bathe their eyes with cold water two or three times a day. Mr. Bampfield also knew of instances, in which electricity was successfully employed, as a topical stimulus to the eye. He also informs us, that a spontaneous cure sometimes followed the eruption of boils on the head, or face, or the formation of abscesses on these parts, or in the ears. Although the blisters will generally effect a cure, there were particular cases, in which Mr. Bampfield administered cathartics, such as calo- mel and the neutral salts. In these examples, the patient had bilious complaints, indicated by a yellow state of the tongue and skin, headach, and pain about the praecordia; or symptoms of indi- gestion, white tongue, loss of appetite, pain and flatulence of the stomach, &c. In the scorbutic hemeralopia, the application of blisters is to be deferred, until the state of the constitution is amended, by giving lemon and lime juice, and fresh animal and vegetable food; because the hemeralopia often gradually ceases, as the scurvy is cured ; and before this last event, the blister might produce a scorbutic ulcer. Mr. Bampfield estimates, that about one-third of the cases of scorbutic hemeralopia resist the efficacy of the antiscorbutic regimen and medicines; and consequently must ultimately be treated as idio- pathic cases. The frequent recurrence of this disease during the patient’s continuance in a tropical, or hot climate, naturally suggests the propriety of re- commending him to return to his native climate, by which change the tendency to a relapse is in general completely removed. (Bampfield, in Medico- Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 53.) Consult Celsus de re Medico, Cap. 6, lib. 6. . Galeni Op. Lib. de Oculis, pars 4, cap. 11. 22. jj JEtii Scrmo Septimus cap. 48-52-46. Paul, j /Egince Lib. 3, cap. 48. Actnarhis, De Me- i thod. med. lib. 4, cap. 11. Rhasis, De JEgri- ! tud. Ocul. cup. 4. Avicenna, Lib. 3, fen. 3, ; fractal. 4. Fabricii Ilildani Centur. 1, Ohs. 24; centur. 5, obs. 13. Plainer, Praxis, Med. C. A. Bergen et J. C. PVcise, De Nyctalopia sen Ccecitate No'eturna; Haller, Disp. ad Morb. cjc. 359. Journal de Mcdecine et de Chirurgtc ann. 1756, T. 4. Medical Observations and In- quiries,- Vol, 1. Rccueil d' Observations de Me- decinc des hopitaux militaires, par Richard, T. , 2. Duport, MSmoirc sur la Gouttc Scrcinc 1 Nocturne epidemique, on Nyctalopic. Obscr- ■ > nations on Tropical Nyctalopia by Mr. J., Forbes, in Edinb. Medical and Surgical Jour- ft ml, No. 28, p. 417 ct scq. Richter's An fangs- j,. grundeder Wundarzneykunst, B. 3, p. 483 ct J|! scq. Schmucker's Chirnrgischc Schriftcn, ji Band 2. Saggio di Osscrvazioni e d'Especialist j;j Sullc Principali Malattie dcgli Occhi di Antonia j| 1 Scarpa, p. 322 ct scq. Edit. 8vo. Venezia, 1802. Rf Lassus, Pathologic Chirurgicale, T. 2, p. 539, | : Edit. 2. Rees's Cyclopaedia, ait. Nyctalopia. H j A Practical Essay on Hemeralopia, or Night• {§}. blindness, commonly called Nyctalopia, by R- IV. Bampfield, in Medico-Chirurgical Trans. • , Vol. 5, p. 32 ct scq. A. Simpson on Heme raid- i|.‘ pia, 8(0. Glasgow, 1819,- C- II. Weller, A Ma- nual of the Diseases of the Eye, transl. by IF. Mont rath ; Vol. 2, p. 142, 8ro. Glasgow, 1821- | HEMIOPIA. (from half, and u4* f > the eye.) A certain disorder of the eye, !<■ I? which the patient cannot see the whole of an>. object, which he is looking at, but only a part c* it. Sometimes, he sees the middle, but not th* h circumference, sometimes the circumference, b111 f