•594 FRACTURES. the ends of the bones are evenly in contact. Being assured of this important point, he is to apply a piece of soap plaster, and lay down the tails of the bandage. Another soft pad, well tilled with tow, is next to be put over the upper surface ol the leg, and over that the other splint, when the straps are to be tightened. Mr. Pott’s method of treating fractures of the fibula, complicated with luxation of the tibia, is described in the article Dislocation, and Dupuy- tren’s practice in the 2d vol. of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery. In an oblique fracture of the head of the tibia, extending into the knee-joint, Mr. A. Cooper recommends the straight position, in which the femur has the good effect of keeping the articular surfaces of the tibia even, A roller is to be used for pressing one fragment towards the other; a pasteboard splint is also to be applied with the same view; and early passive motion of the joint is to be practised in order to prevent anchy- losis. When the fracture is oblique, but does not reach into the joint, the same author prefers placing the limb on the double-inclined plane. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 103.) FRACTURES OF THE SCAPULA. As Boyer correctly observes, fractures of the scapula are not very common, a circumstance explicable by the deep and covered position of the greater part of this bone, and its great mobility. Nor can these accidents arise, without con- siderable direct violence. However, there are some parts of the scapula, which being more superficial, and of a form more likely to be acted upon by external bodies, are more frequently fractured : such are the acromion, and inferior angle of the bone. Fractures of the coracoid process, and even of the neck of the scapula, are also mentioned ; but, the instances of such ac- cidents are not common ; and though these parts of the bone may appear in the skeleton likely to be often broken, their deep situation in the living subject generally saves them. Indeed, as Boyer says, they generally require great violence to break them, and then the contusion of the soft parts is a worse injury, than the fracture itself: thus, this author has seen the coracoid process broken by the blow of the pole of a carriage, and the patient lost his life from the violence at the same time inflicted upon all the soft pavts about the shoulder. (Traite (its Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 161.) When the acromion is broken, the weight of the arm, and the contraction of the deltoid mus- cle, draw it downward, while the trapezius and levator scapulae draw the rest of the bone upward and backward. When the lower angle is broken, the serratus rpajor anticus draws it forward, while the rest of the scapula remains in its natural situation; or, if the angular portion be consider- able, the teres major, and some fibres of the latis- simus dorsi, contribute to its displacement for- ward and upward. When the coracoid process is fractured, the pectoralis minor, coraco-brachialis, and short head of the biceps, concur in drawing it forward and downward. When the neck of the scapula is fractured, the weight of the arm makes it drop down so con- siderably, as to give the appearance of a dis- location ; but, the facility of lifting the os bra- chii upward, the crepitus, and 1 he falling of the limb downward again, immediately it is unsup- ported, are circumstances clearly marking, that the case is not a dislocation. Sometimes great pains and a crepitus aw experienced, on moving the shpulder-joint, after an accident; and yet the spine, the neck of the scapula, and all the above parts, tire not broken. In this circum- stance, it is to be suspected, either that a small portion of the head of the os bruchii, or a little piece of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, is broken off; which.latter occurrence, I think, is not very uncommon. Fractures of the acromion are attended with pain, which is increased by the motion of the arm ; the form of the shoulder is changed ; and the broken part, which has descended, may be raised, by bringing up the elbow close to the side. When the inferior angle is broken, the part remains motionless, while the rest of the sca- pula is moved; and it is so separated, that no mistake can be made. (Bnyei.) Fractures of the spine and body of the bone, are all attended with a crepitus ; and, in the first cases, an irregularity of the injured part may generally be felt. The prognosis of fractures of the scapula varies according to the situation of the injury, and the attendant circumstances. Fractures of the body of the bone, whatever may be their direction, are generally very simple, and readily cured. Those of the acromion and lower angle are more troublesome to keep right; but the most serious cases are fractures of the coracoid process and neck of the bone, which cannot be kept right without great difficult}', and are said to be frequently followed by a considerable stiff- ness of the arm, inability to raise it, its atrophy, and even paralysis. In other respects, the dan- ger of fractures of the scapula depends less upon the solution of continuity in the bone, than the contusion of the soft parts, or injury of the tho- racic viscera. However, when the fracture is comminuted, and the splinters are forced into the subscapularis muscle, .abscesses may form under the bone, and, according to Boyer, require a perforation to be made in it; (MuL Chir. T. 3, p. 165,) a proceeding, which I cannot bring myself to think would ever be judicious, as making a depending opening in the soft parts must be far better practice. In military surgery, the scapula is often injured by sabre-cuts ; but, as Dr Hennen remarks, this bone, when pre- served from motion, is found in these cases to unite with great readiness, and without future inconvenience. (Principles <j Military Surgery, p. -48, Ed. 2.) According to Boyer, when the scapula is frac- tured longitudinally, or transversely, it is merely necessary to fix the arm to the side by means of a bandage, which includes the arm and trunk, from the shoulder to the elbow. Thus, the motions of the shoulder, which are only con- comitant with those of the arm, are prevented. . When the inferior angle is broken, and drawn downward and forward by the serratus major anticus, the scapula must be pushed toward t e fragment, by pushing the arm itsell inuaui, downward, and forward, where it is to be kep