1084 URETHRA. Although, in cases of permanent strictures, the bougie may not pass at first, yet, after re- peated trials, it will every now and then find its way. In this manner future attempts become more certain and easy'. However, the success of the subsequent trials to introduce a bougie does not always depend on the instrument having been once or twice passed. Sometimes it can be introduced to-day, but not to-morrow; and, in this state, the case may continue for weeks, notwithstanding every trial which can be made. Mr. Hunter observes, how- ever, that, in general, the introduction of the bougie becomes gradually less difficult, and, therefore, that we ought not to despair of suc- cess in any case. When the passage is very small, it is not easy to know whether the bougie has entered the stricture or not; for bougies, as slender as those which must be at first employed, bend so very easily, that the surgeon is apt to fancy, that they are passing along the urethra, while they are only bending. Mr, Hunter advises the surgeon first to make himself acquainted with the situa- tion of the stricture, by means of a common- sized bougie; and then to take a smaller one, and when its point arrives at the stricture, the instrument is to be gently pushed forward, but only for a short time. If the bougie has passed further into the penis, the surgeon may know how far it has entered the stricture, by taking the pressure off the bougie. For, if it recoil, he may be sure that it has not passed ; at least, has not passed far, but only bent. On the con- trary, if it remain fixed, and do not recoil, it has certainly' entered the stricture. However, the preceding remarks are said not to be so applicable when a very small bougie is employed, which may become bent, without our being aware of the circumstance. A bougie may frequently be introduced a very little way, for instance, only one-tenth of an inch, and then it bends, and cannot be pushed further. To determine whether this is the case, Mr. Hunter says, it is necessary to withdraw the bougie and examine its end. If the end be blunted, we may be sure, that the bougie has not entered at all; but if it be flattened, for an eighth, or tenth of an inch, be grooved, or have its outer waxen coat pushed up to that extent; or if there be a circular impression made upon the bougie, or only a dent on one side, made by the stricture; we may be sure, that the instru- ment has passed as far as these appearances ex- tend. It then becomes necessary to introduce another of exactly the same size, and in the same manner, and to let it remain as long as the patient can bear it, or convenience will allow. By re- petitions of this plan, the stricture will be over- come. Mr. Hunter remarks, that the time which each bougie ought to remain in the passage must be determined by the feelings of the patient; for, if possible, no pain should ever be given. If the patient should experience very acute pain when the bougie is passing, it ought not to be left in the urethra above five, or, at most, ten mi- nutes ; or not so long if the pain be exceedingly severe. Each time of application should after- irritability of the parts. Mr. Hunter affirms, that he has known many patients, who could not bear a bougie to remain in the passage ten, or even five, minutes, till after several days, and even weeks, but who in time were able to wear the instrument for hours, and this, at last, with- out any difficulty. The best time for keeping a bougie in the urethra, is when the patient has least to do; or in the morning, while he is in bed, if he can introduce the instrument him- self. Mr. Hunter next observes, that the bougie should be increased in size, according to the fa- cility with which the stricture becomes dilated, and the ease with which the patient bears the dilatation. If the parts are very firm, or very irritable, the increase of the size of the bougie should be very slow, so as to allow them to be- come gradually adapted to the augmented size of the instrument. But if the sensibility of the parts will allow, the increase of the size of the bougie may be somewhat quicker, but never more sudden than the patient can easily bear. The surgeon must continue to increase the size of the bougie, till one of the largest size can freely pass; nor should the use of this be dis- continued till after three weeks, or a month, in order that the dilated part may have time to be- come habituated to its new position, and lose its disposition to contract again. However, Mr. Hunter believed, that the permanency of a cure, effected on the principle of dilatation, could seldom be depended upon. At the present day, many surgeons prefer bougies composed of metal, flexible enough to allow their curvature to be adapted to the bend of the urethra, yet sufficiently firm to retain the figure given them, while they are employed. Others very commonly use iron sounds, which, in cases where it is necessary to have an instrument possessing more firmness than a wax bougie, and having a point more unchangeably turned upwards than that of the latter instiu- ment, may have advantages. But, for all ordinary cases, I consider a common bougie a safer and better instrument; one with which the surgeon is less apt to exert unwarrantable force, so as to occasion a dangerous degree of irritation, or, what is worse, a false passage. ( CUKE OF STRICTURES BY ULCERATION. This is also accomplished by means of a wax or metallic bougie, and the plan may be tried both when the instrument can, or cannot, be in- troduced through the stricture. In the first in- stance, the method is less proper, because the stricture admits of being dilated. In order to cure a stricture by making it ul- cerate, the bougie is to be introduced as far through the contracted part as possible, and the size of the instrument is to be augmented, as fast as the sensations of the patient can well bear. In this manner, ulceration will be produced in the part which is pressed; and Mr. Hunter remarks, that the cure will be more lasting, because more of the stricture is destroyed than when the parts are simply dilated. This eminent surgeon no- tices, however, that few patients will submit to ji • it-., .t.-wl fotvr wnulil alile