HYDROPHOBIA. 669 indisposition produced by the bite of :i dog, or other animal, affected with rabies, or by the ap- plication of some of the secretions of such animal to a part of the body, the first allusion to it to be found in authors, is that made by Aristotle (Hist. Animal, rib. 7, cap. '22); but be could have had but very erroneous notions upon the subject, since he sets down man as incapable of re- ceiving the distemper from the bite of a rabid dog. With respect, to a name for the disorder, as the patient does not commonly betray any tendency to fury, while the dread of water is reallv a customary attendant on the complaint, tiie terms rabies and la rage seem strictly even more exceptionable than the word hydrophobia. At the same time, in order not to imbibe con- fused notions, whatever name be thought fittest for the illness arising in the human subject from tiie bite of a mad dog, and some other animals similarly affected, it is necessary to understand well, that hydrophobia, in the sense of a horror of cater, or other liquids, is an occasional symptom of many diseases, and neither exclu- sively confined to the indisposition caused by the bite of a rabid dog, or certain other animals, nor even constantly attendant upon it. And, with the same view of avoiding perplexity, all hydro- phobic complaints may be arranged in two gene- ral divisions : 1. The first, comprising all cases not ascribable to the bite of a rabid animal, or the application of some of its secretions to a part of the body. 2. The second, comprehending the examples, preceded by one of those occurrences. The cases included in the first of these divi- sions are subdivided into the symptomatic and idiopathic, or spontaneous. By symptomatic hydrophobia is understood an aversion or dread of liquids, presenting itself as an occasional symptom of various diseases, as of certain in- flammatory, febrile, and nervous disorders, hy- steria, epilepsy, injuries of the brain, (Tre- court, in Recneil Periodique, <|r. T. 6 ; Acta Natures C trios. Vol. 2, Ohs. 205,) the ope- ration of particular poisons ; ( Villcrmay, Traite des Mai. Nerveuses, T. 1, p. 90 ; Harlcs uber die Hundiswuth, Franlif. 1809; 'Schmiedel, Diss dc Hydrophobia ex usu fructuum fiigi, Erlang. 1762, See.); gastritis, pneumonia, hepatitis, angina, Sec. Sec. In many of the in- stances of symptomatic hydrophobia, the aver- sion, or dread, of fluids, occurs on the same day as the cause upon which it depends, or a few days afterwards; and, for the most part, maybe cured with the disease, which has given rise to it, or even independently of it. On the contrary, the hydrophobia from the bite, or infection, of a rabid animal, does not come on till a long time after the occurrence of the cause, and, when once formed, has hitherto proved incurable, or very nearly so. \\ hatever analogy, therefore, may be imagined to.exist between symptomatic hy- drophobia and rabies, they differ essentially in their causes, progress, degree of curability, and also in the treatment required. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 4, p. 38.) Spontaneous, or idiopathic hydrophobia, de- notes the questionable form of the complaint, sometimes supposed to be induced by violent mental commotion, anger, fright, Ac. unpre- ceded by any other primary disease, to which it can be referred as a symptom. Numerous facts upon record leave no doubt concerning the reality of symptomatic hydro- phobia ; but, perhaps, none of the cases adduced by Raymond {Mem. dc la Soc. lloyalc de Med. T. 2, p. 457), Roupe (Nova Acta Physico- Mtd. T. 4), or Pouteau {Essai stir la liage, Lyons, 1763), in proof of the possibility of a spontaneous idiopathic form of the disease in the human subject, are sufficiently unequivocal to remove all suspicion, that the complaint either had been preceded by another primary disease {Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 22, p. 333), or had been the result of an unobserved, or for- gotten occasion, on which the infection was re- ceived from handling a dog, or cat, never sus- pected at the time to be affected with rabies. Here a wrong conclusion is the more apt to be drawn, in consequence of the disease being com- municable without any bite to fix the patient’s attention, and not commencing sometimes for months after the unnoticed receipt of the in- fection. Thus, Francis Stannier died, in Nov. 1787, with symptoms of hydrophobia, though it was not known that lie had ever been bitten by a mad dog {Loud. Med. Journ. Vol. 9, p. 256); yet, what safe inference can be drawn from this case, when the above-mentioned circumstances are recollected, and it is known that the man was often drunk, and in the streets at night? These and other considerations even throw a doubt upon a part of the cases, recorded as in- stances of symptomatic tetanus, and they lead the generality of the modern writers to incline to the sentiment of Dr. J. Hunter, that a disease, similar in its nature to what is produced by the bite of a mad dog, never arises spontaneously in the human subject. (See Trans, of a Soc. for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Know- ledge, Vol. 1, p. 299—303.) Many of the symptomatic cases, however, or those in which more or less aversion, or dread of liquids, is evinced as an effect of another disease, are too well authenticated to admit- of doubt. In the Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 22, art. Hydro- phobic, may be found a great deal of information, likely to interest such readers as wish to follow up the subject of the symptomatic forms of the disease. However, in looking over some of the cases there detailed, a suspicion will sometimes arise in an intelligent mind, that the disorder was mistaken ; for it will be noticed, that some- times pain shooting up the limbs preceded the general indisposition, while the rapidity of the disease, and the appearances found on dissection, corresponded precisely to what is usually, re- marked in hydrophobia. In particular, one pa- tient is described as a man habituated to drink- ing, and, as a sportsman, to dogs also ; he died on the third day, and, on dissection, the stomach and intestines were found inflamed, and even gangrenous in several places, the oesophagus and lungs also participating in the inflammation. {Commcrc. Litter. Norcvib. 1743, Held. 5.) Animals of the dog kind, including the wolf and the fox, are most frequently the subject of rabies; and certain writers have maintained, that, although it may be received and propagated by other animals, yet it always originates in