UTERUS, INVERSION OF. i 125 I 1 ressive sense of heaviness in the hypogastric agion, and a tenesmus, which, compelling them make violent efforts, forces the uterus further own, and sometimes produces a total inversion it. Besides these symptoms, more or less .pious hemorrhages also occur. When the ill- usion is complete, the pain is more acute, the ss of blood more considerable, and the patient den affected with peculiar weakness, followed by Id sweats, convulsions, and delirium. In both forms of the disease, if the reduction not almost immediately effected, fatal consc- iences frequently ensue, either very soon after j r accident, from the violence of the hemorrhage, at a more or less remote period, partly from oeated losses of blood, and partly from the con- tutional irritation and disturbance incessantly tpt up. .‘Happily, as Mr. Windsor observes, the acci- ant admits of remedy, if an intelligent person be ^sent to replace the uterus ; for if this be done mediately, and the hand of the accoucheur be • ained in the cavity of this organ, until it has r. itracted, and the patient afterwards confined • the recumbent posture, she will generally do • ill. An unsettled point appears to be, whether , placenta, if still remaining, should be extract- before, or after, the reduction. Mr. Wind- , wrbo appears inclined to prefer the latter thod, refers to two examples, in which each n was followed by a recovery. (See Med. ir. Trans. Vol. 10, p. 360.) And, in all cases, as the same author remarks, accoucheur, after the expulsion of the pla- ta, should assure himself by manual examina- t, that the os internum is free, while an en- vour is made to feel the uterus with the hand :ed upon the abdomen. “ In consequence of neglect of this practice (says Mr. Windsor) ■ to be feared, that many lives have been lost; true cause of the succeeding hemorrhage not lg ascertained till too late, as happened in the 1 case that occurred to a midwife here (Man- ner) last winter.” Some women perish at t e, or within a few hours, and, when they live rer, the reduction is exceedingly difficult, be- le the uterus and its cervix are becoming e and more contracted. n the reduction, Sabatier regards the inter- tion of linen, between the hands and the ute- as unnecessary and even disadvantageous, .use it prevents the practitioner from having assistance of a correct feel of the part. The should be continued, as long as the patient’s ngth will allow. However, if the tumor ! in an inflamed state, it, would be prudent, ut the patient in the warm bath, use emolli- applications, and exhibit anodyne and laxa- medicines, £tc. ^hen the reduction cannot be accomplished, y die; while others survive, subject to an essive sense of weight, and frequent hemor- ;es, which bring on great emaciation. Sabir- attended two patients, who had had an inver- of the uterus, six months, and yet they were to go about their family affairs. The same •or had heard of other women, who had been oted with an inversion of the uterus several rs. f the reduction cannot be performed, and the ent survive the immediate effects of the in- jury, “ some degree of inflammatory symptoms, accompanied with fever, ensues. The abdomen becomes full,, tender to the touch, and, at its lower part, sometimes rather hard. There is costiveness of the bowels, and sometimes reten- tion of urine, requiring for a time the use of the catheter. By the use of fomentations, enemata, laxatives, and an antiphlogistic regimen, the symptoms abate, the power of expelling the urine, especially if the uterus is first raised a little in the vagina, is regained, and the patient gra- dually recovers the full power of this function. Afterwards she becomes able to walk about, suckles her infant, and perhaps enjoys apparently even a tolerable state of health; yet, the san- guineous discharges generally after a time,” re- turn profusely, and her pale countenance, and emaciated appearance indicate the greatest de- bility. “ About the time, when she relinquishes the office of suckling, the menses return more regu- larly, the discharges of blood are very consider- able in quantity, or of long duration; the mu- cous discharges are generally copious at other times ; and the constitution begins to sink under the reiterated losses it sustains. The pulse be- comes frequent, the appetite is impaired, a cough, with hectic symptoms sometimes occurs, and the patient is quite unable to pursue her usual do- mestic duties. In this state, palliative means, as the use of astringent and other remedies, become inadequate to check the exhausted progress of the complaint, and the unfortunate sufferer must soon perish, unless some decisive means be de- vised for her relief. In this painful extremity, the extirpation of the uterus itself has been pro- posed, as the most efficient means of relief, and formidable as the operation at first view seems, it is known to have been already performed with success.’’ (Windsor, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10, p. 361—G3.) One of the most afflicting consequences of an inversion of the uterus, is so considerable an in- flammation of the part, as to induce a danger of its mortifying. In this circumstance, the extir- pation of the uterus has been also suggested, and even practised; an operation, that has had but little success, the majority of patients on whom it has been practised under such circumstances having died. The practice of extirpating the inverted uterus, through apprehension of the part mortifying, cannot he too strongly reprobated; for, unless mortification has really happened, the uterus may possibly be brought into a slate again, in which the inconveniences, arising from its inversion would be very supportable, and the operation altogether avoided. Even supposing mortifica- tion were to take, place, the indication would be to appease the bad symptoms, and promote the separation of the sloughs by suitable applications, without doing any injury to the living parts. One example, in which the latter practice was success- fully adopted, is recorded by Rousset. TJ»at the extirpation of the uterus, when this organ is com- pletely or incompletely inverted, totally irreduci- ble, and attended with the sufferings and reduced health, so well described by Mr. Windsor, may sometimes be advisable, cannot now be doubted. The unequivocal examples on record of the re- moval of the cancerous uterus by Osiandet, Du-