1 ■ NECROSIS. 837 discharge a whitish, inodorous, thick pus, ab- solutely devoid of any bad quality whatsoever. He bait particularly seen this happen in patients, whose necroses proceeded from an external cause, or an internal one of a slight nature, and whose health was generally good. (Dc Necrusi Os- tium, ]>■ lb‘.) If, says the same excellent writer, we sometimes find in practice the sup- puration dark and fetid, we must not ascribe it to the affection of the bone; but to the weakness and bad state of the patient’s health. Under the same circumstances, common sores of the soft parts would also emit a discharge of bad quality. After the ulcerated openings have emitted for some time a profuse discharge, the sinuses, if considerable, receive the appellation of fistulse, on account of their edges putting on a callous ap- pearance, throwing out fungous granulations, and there being impediments to cicatrization. These impediments are caused by the dead por- tions of bone, which, whether loose, or adherent, act as extraneous bodies in hindering the sores from healing. In some instances, also, the ulcers will not heal, though the dead bone has come away, because they run to a great depth, and such a quantity of pus is secreted from every point of their surface, as prevents all contact, and the adhesions, which would result from it. The fistulae vary in number; but, they are fewer in proportion as the disease is slighter. In an extensive necrosis, several of these open- ings are seen, either near together, or separated by considerable spaces ; and, when the necrosis affects every side of the bone, the fistulse in the integuments occur on every side of the limb. Besides the inflammatory fever, which attends the beginning of every severe case of necrosis, which is sometimes accompanied with exceed- ingly violent symptoms, and which usually abates when matter is formed, the patient is subject to another fever of a slow hectic type. This takes place in the decline of the disease, is the effect of the long continued profuse suppuration, gra- dually reduces the patient, and at length brings hirn to the grave, unless the timely removal of the sequestrum be effected either by nature, or art. Let us next endeavour to trace the signs, by which we may not only ascertain the presence of the disease, but its modifications. In the first place, we should make ourselves acquainted with every thing, which may have predisposed to the disorder; as, for instance, what accidental circumstances have occurred, and what symptoms followed them. We should also inquire into any previous treatment, which may have been adopted ; for, as Weidmann truly remarks, injudicious remedies have caused many a necrosis, that would not have occurred at all, if the case had been properly treated, or confided to nature. The kind of inflammation, with which the dis- ease commences, may afford grounds for sus- pecting that necrosis will happen: it is generally slow and deeply seated, passing through its stages tardily, and the attendant symptoms are severe, fhe skin retains its natural colour a long while; but, at length, exhibits a reddish, or livid dis- colouration. The matter does not reach the skin, till a considerable time' has elapsed, and when the abscess bursts, the inflammatory symptoms are still slow in subsiding. When the inflam- mation is acute, the patient suflers intolerable pain a long time. There are also other symptoms of a necrosis; viz. the swelling, which accompanies the inflam- mation, is situated upon a bone, or rather the bone is included in the tumor; the swelling is at the same time very diffused ; and the suppura- tion lies deeply, and can only be felt in an ob- scure way. The ulcers, beneath which a necrosis is situ- ated, discharge a large quantity of matter, and their edges are bent inward. The granulations are either yellowish and pale, or else of an intense red colour; they are also irregular, and gene- rally not very tender, though sometimes ex- tremely painful, and on being slightly touched, they bleed. It has been already noticed, that, some years ago, the discharge from the sores, which attend necrosis, was described as being always thin, fetid, and sanious; and such qualities of the matter were regarded as a symptom of the disease of the bone. But that excellent practical writer Weid- mann has well explained, that it is a symptom, undeserving of confidence In cases of necrosis the. pus is often thick, white, and inodorous; while other ulcers, unattended with diseased bone, sometimes discharge thin fetid matter. Weidmann, at the same time, does not mean to assert, that in cases of necrosis, the sores never emit unhealthy pus; but, he firmly believes, that such discharge is not always the result of a dis- ease of the bone. As far as he could judge, the suppuration from ulcers, situated over diseased bones, continues white and laudable, as long as the patient’s general health is good ; but, that it deviates from these properties, in proportion as the health becomes impaired. Neither is the black colour, imparted to the dressings of ulcers, a circumstance, which neces- sarily indicates the existence of necrosis ; for it may occur, when the bone is sound, and may not happen, when the bone is affected. None of the preceding symptoms convey such information, as leaves no doubt of the positive existence of necrosis. The touch is the only thing, which can give us this knowledge, when the bone is not too deeply situated, and the sinuses not tortuous, nor obstructed with fungous growths. When the openings of the ulcers are con- siderable, the finger may be introduced. If in this way the bone can be felt to be extensively uncovered by the periosteum, the surgeon may conclude, that all such portion of the bone lias perished. He may be still more certain of the fact, when he finds the edges of the denuded bone unequal and rough. The examinations, made directly with the finger, give the most correct and exact informa- tion of the state of the bone ; but the orifices ol the sores are sometimes so small, that the finger cannot be introduced, without causing great pain. A probe must then be used for the purpose oi ascertaining the extent of the denudation ol the bone; whether its edges are rough ; whether the dead portion is loose, and likely to separate soon. Sometimes, the dead fragment of bone pro- li — MM