352 DIPLOPIA. which, things are depicted diversely from what they arc to the other healthy eye, so that the patient sees, as it were double. Thus, for ex- ample, there may be a stronger refraction of the rays of light in one eye, than the other; the patient may be a myops with one eye, and a presbyops with the other; and then the object will seem to one eye large, to the other small, to one eye distant, to the other plainly near. This state of the sight, indeed, is said to have occurred after operating upon a cataract in one eye. (Iieuermunn.) However that this is not a common consequence of operating upon a cata- ract in one eye, while the other is perfect, is sufficiently clear, from what has been said upon the subject, in a foregoing part of this work. (See Cataract.) In particular examples, objects which are perpendicular seem to the patient to have a sloping posture. When it is considered, that enly one eye is thus affected, and that to it things will appear sloping, and to the other straight, double vision must be the effect. A few remarks connected with this subject will be introduced hereafter. (See Sight, Defects of.) When both eyes are so directed to an object, that it becomes situated in the axis of vision of each of these organs, such object is represented in both at the same place, that is, it is depicted upon that part of the retina, on which the axis of sight falls. Thus the object seems to both eyes to be in the same place, and, though the two organs discern the thing, it only communicates a single appearance. But, when one eye is turned to any object in a different direction from that of the other; that is to say, when one eye is turned to an object in such a way, that the object is situated in the axis of vision of this eye, while the opposite eye is so turned, that the same object is placed on one side of its axis of vision; in other words, when a person squints; the object is depicted in one eye upon a different part of the retina from what it is in the other ; consequently, the object appears to the two respective organs to be differently situated, and the patient is af- fected with diplopia. This is the third species of this disorder, which arises from strabismus as a third kind of occasional cause. Such patients naturally see objects double only when they be- hold them with both eyes. A person, who squints, usually has one eye stronger than the other, and the weakness of one of these organs is the common cause of the stra- bismus. Such a person docs not see objects double, because he only sees with one eye well, and with the other so faintly and imperfectly, that scarcely any impression is made. Hence, every case of strabismus is not necessarily combined with diplopia; indeed, the common kind of squinting is not joined with it. A person, af- fected with strabismus, only secs double, when the sight of each eye is equally strong, and when the squinting does not depend upon any weak- ness of one of the eyes, but, upon some other occasional causes. The principal causes of the latter sort are of a spasmodic nature, viz.: an irritation affects some muscle of the eye in such a manner, that the patient is incapacitated from moving both his eyes according to his will, and from directing them to any object, so that such ob- ject may be at once in the axis of vision of both. On this case, the observations of Sir E. Home are interesting, who has made many accurate reflec- tions on the effect of an irregular action of the straight muscles of the eye in producing double vision. (lJhil. Tram. 1797.) Richter states, that, in the majority of cases, the irritation alluded to is seated in the gastric organs, though he thinks, that, any other species of irritation may operate upon the eyes in a simi- lar manner. This kind of diplopia is frequently attendant on other spasmodic diseases as a sym- ptom. It often accompanies hypochondriasis. Sometimes, it is the consequence of violent pain. Richter informs us, of a man, who saw double and squinted, during a severe head-ach. He states, that another was affected in the same way during a tooth-ach. Sometimes, the diplopia is owing to a paralysis of one of the muscles of the eye; (Morgagni de Sedibus et Causis Mnrborwn, Epist. 13, art. 20; a paralysis of the abductor mus- cle) sometimes, to a tumor in the orbit. The di- ! agnosis of this kind of diplopia is free from diffi- ! culty; the patient having been affected with squint- ing, ever since things appeared double to him. The views, which Sir E. Home took of di- j plopia from irregular action, spasm, or weak- ness, of any particular muscle of the eye, led him to propose a plan of treatment, the prin- . ciple of which is to keep the muscle affected for a time, perfectly at rest, which is easily done, j by covering the eye with a bandage, and not , allowing the organ to be at all employed. The fourth class of causes are such irritations j as act upon the optic nerves, changing their sen- j sibility in such a way, that objects do not make f. that sort of impression upon them, which they |j ought to do. Thus, things sometimes have the !• appearance of being coloured, when they are ■ really not so; immoveable objects seem in ■ motion, straight objects appear oblique, and in n the cases, which we are now treating of, single [| things seem to the eye double, treble, &c. This fault}’- kind of sensibility may also be pro- ■ ducedj by irritation in eyes, which are perfectly: sound; but, it is most readily occasioned in eyes, |i which are preternaturally weak and irritable. In ; these, very trivial and inconsiderable irritations |f| will often excite it. In the treatment, the com- |j mon indication is to discover and remove what- > ever irritation conduces to this effect; but, the f attempt frequently fails. In irritable eyes, the ji disorder is often brought on by very slight irri- ( tations, which cannot always be diminished, or removed. Here, the grand indication is to cure f; the weakness and irritability of the organs. According to Richter, the fourth class of j| causes of diplopia is the most frequent The |s irritations are of various kinds, and generally j* seated in the abdominal viscera. Diplopia is f: sometimes the consequence of inebriety, foulness |» of the stomach, intermitting fevers, hypochondria- sis, worms, &c. However, the complaint is oc* g casionally excited by other sorts of irritation. It has frequently followed a violent fright. It may be connected with spasmodic and painful diseases of several kinds. Severe head-achs and tooth- achs arc sometimes joined with this affection ot the sight. Richter mentions a boy, who, being in the woods, was struck by the bough of a tree over the ev\ and, in consequence ol the acci*