the disease is advanced so far, that the posterior chamber is tilled by the fungous mass. Since no internal medicines, nor external applications, atibrd the least hope of checking any form of the fungus hxmatodes, it is manifest, that when the distemper of the eye exceeds certain bounds, the miserable patient is placed beyond the reach of any effectual aid from surgery, in a case, how- ever, which I saw in April, 1821, in the London Eye Infirmary, the disease formed a diseased mass as large as an orange, accompanied with enlarged lymphatic glands over the parotid. The patient was an infant. In this instance, Mr. Law- rence used as a local application, the liquor opii sedativus, prepared by Mr. Battley, which was found to lessen considerably the child’s sufferings. FUNGUS. 507 dent cause whatever. ( Dissertations on Itijlum- motion hy ./. Bunts, Vol. 2.) Mr. Hey has given several cases of the fun- gus htematodes. If I notice the most parti- cular circumstances, relative to one of these, it will suffice to inform the reader of the form, in which this terrible affliction has presented itself in this gentleman’s practice. A young man, aged twenty-one, two years be- fore applying to Mr. Hey, perceived a small swelling on the inside of the right knee, not far from the patella. This tumor was moveable, and did not impede the motion of the joint: it was not discoloured, but was painful, when moved, or pressed upon. It continued in this state half a year, and then the man, having hurt his knee I (See particularly Wardrop's Obs.on Fungus Has- against a stone, it gradually increased in bulk, mat odes. Scarpa on the Principal Diseases of but did not exceed the size of an egg. The skin the Ei/e, chap. 21. Some Cases in Saunders’s Treatise on Diseases of the Eye ; and 13. h avers s Synopsis of the Diseases of the Fye, 'duo. Land. 1820.) t 4 i ‘U FUNGUS HJEMATODES OF THE LIMBS. 2. In the extremities, the disease begins with a small colourless tumor, which is soft and elastic, if there be no thick covering over it, such as a fascia ; but otherwise it is tense. At first, it is free from uneasiness; but, by degrees, a severe acute pain darts occasionally through it, more and more frequently, and, at length, becomes in- cessant. For a considerable time, the tumor is smootli and even ; but, afterwards, it projects ir- regularly at one, or more points; and the skin at this place becomes of a livid red colour, and feels thinner. In this situation, it easily yields to -pressure, but instantly bounds up again. Small openings now form in these projections, through which is discharged a thin bloody matter. Al- most immediately after these tumors burst, a small fungus protrudes, like a papilla, and this rapidly increases, both in breadth and height, and lias exactly the appearance of a carcinoma- tous fungus, and frequently bleeds profusely. The matter is thin, and exceedingly fetid, and he pain becomes of the smarting kind. The in- teguments, for a little way round these ulcers, ire red, and tender. After ulceration takes >lace, the neighbouring glands swell, and assume :xactly the spongy qualities of the primary tu- nor. If the patient still survive the disease in ts present advanced progress, similar tumors orm in other parts of the body, and the patient lies hectic. After death, or amputation, the tumor is found o consist of a soft substance, somewhat like the ■rain, of a greyish colour, and greasy appear- iicc, with thin membrane-like divisions running hrough it, and cells, or abscesses, in different ■laces, containing a thin bloody matter, occasion- lly in very considerable quantity. There does iot seem uniformly to be any entire cyst, sur- ounding the tumor; for, it very frequently dives own betwixt the muscles, or down to the bone, o which it often appears to adhere. The neigh- ouring muscles are of a pale colour, and lose heir fibrous appearance, becoming more like l'er, than muscle. The bones are always cari- es in the vicinity of these tumors. The distemper is sometimes caused by exter- al violence, though in general there is no evi- was now discoloured with blue specks, which were taken to be veins. He could still walk with ease, and follow his business. Two months before his admission into the Leeds Infirmary, he met with a fall, and violently bent his knee, but did not strike it against any thing. The tumor began immediately to en- large; and, within a few hours, it extended half way up the inside of his thigh. About a fort- night after this accident, the skin burst at the lowest part of the tumor, and discharged some blood. A dark-coloured fungus, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, here made its appearance, and, a few weeks afterwards, the skin burst at another part of the large tumor, and some blood was again discharged. From the fissure arose an- other fungus, which had increased, in the course of the last week, to the size of a small melon, and now measured eight inches from one side of its base to the other. The base of the fungus frequently hied, especially, when the man allow- ed his limb to hang down. The whole tumor was now of an enormous size, being nineteen inches across, when the measure was carried over the last mentioned fungus. From its highest part in the thigh to the lowest part, just below the knee, it measured seventeen inches, without including the fungus. The base of the tumor at the knee, exclusive of that part, which ran up the thigh, measured twenty four inches in circumference. The tu- mor was situated on the inner side of the limb, and was distinctly defined. The skin, covering the disease, was in some places livid, and had se- veral fissures and small ulcerations upon it; but, had not burst asunder, except in the two places above described. The tumor was soft, and gave a sensation of some contained fluid, when gently pressed with the hands alternately in opposite di- rections. The patient said he had walked with- out pain in his knee, a week before his admission into the Infirmary; and he had lost very little blood in his journey to Leeds. He complained of the greatest uneasiness in the highest part of the tu- mor. It had become hot and painful in the night-time, for some days past. His pulse was 1 14 in a minute; his tongue was clean ; and his appetite had been good, till the last few days. He had never felt anv pulsation in the tumor. In a consultation it was determined, that the tumor should be laid open, by cutting off a por- tion of the distended integuments; and that after removing the contents, if the sac should be