INFLAMMATION. 69? SYMPTOMS, nature, and causes of inflam- mation. Redness, swelling, heat, and pain, the four | principal symptoms of phlegmonous inflamma- tion, have’been accurately noticed by Celsus : [ Nolti' vero inflammationis sunt quatuor, rubor, ct tumor, atm calorc ct dolore, lib. 3, cap. 10. I If we refer to any writer on this interesting part [ of surgery, we shall find the above symptoms enumerated as characterizing phlegmon. In j short, this term is usually applied to a circum- 3 „scribed tumor, attended with heat, redness, ten- | sion, and a throbbing pain. These are the first j appearances observed in every case of phlegmon ; | and when they are slight, and the part affected j -is of no great extent, they have commonly very , little, and sometimes no apparent, influence on 1 : the general system. But, when they are more si \considerable, and the inflammation becomes ex- I tensive, a full, quick, and generally a hard pulse, j takes place, and the patient, at the same time, j complains of universal heat, thirst, and other } symptoms of fever. While the inflamed part | becomes red, painful, and swelled, its functions I are also impaired. The same degree of inflain- [ mation is said to produce more swelling in i soft parts, and less in those of a harder structure. I {Burns.) Though the redness, swelling, throbbing, ten- j sion, and other symptoms of phlegmonous in- i i flammation, are less manifest, when the affection ! s deeply situated, yet their existence is un- j i doubted, When persons die of peripneumony, I or inflammation of the lungs, the air-cells of ' these organs are found crowded with a larger j number of turgid blood-vessels, than in the j healthy state, and of course the parts must ap- t pear preternaturally red. Coagulating lymph, | and even blood, are extravasated in the substance | of these viscera, which become heavier, and feel I more solid. (Baillie.) The extravasation of coagulating lymph, which is one of the chief causes of the swelling, ■ is also one of the most characteristic signs of I phlegmonous inflammation. Some writers (Smith, in Mccl. Commun. I l ot. 2.) have confined the seat of phlegmon to the cellular membrane ; but, this idea is erro- I neous. Had such authors duly discriminated the i nature of common inflammation, the)' would have allowed, that this affection existed, wherever the capillaries appeared to be more numerous, and enlarged, than in the natural state, accompanied 1j« with an effusion of coagulating lymph, whether I upon the surface of a membrane, or a bone, or i into the interstices of the cellular substance, and ! ' 'attended with acute pain, and a throbbing pulsa- tion in the part. As Dr. Thomson has observed, the epithet ‘remote, as applied to the causes of influmma- • lion, does not appear to be happily chosen ; for under this term, are comprehended all those agents, events, and states, which contribute im- mediately, as well as remotely, directly as well as “'indirectly, to the production of the affection. {•‘Cctures on Inflammation, p. 50.) fhe remote causes of inflammation arc infinite m number; but, very easy of comprehension, be- cause, only divisible into two general classes. The first includes all such agents as operate by their stimulant or chemical qualities; for in- stance, caritharides, heat, the action of concen- trated acids, alkalies, metallic oxides, and me- tallic salts, acrid vapours, such as ammoniacal gas, the nitrous, sulphureous, muriatic, oxyge- nated muriatic gases, See. alcohol, aether, and all acrid, vegetable essential oils, animal poisons, and the whole of that class of substances known by the name of rubefacients. (Thomson on In- flammation, p. 55.) The second class of causes are those, which act mechanically, such as bruises, wounds, pressure, friction, &c. Fevers often seem to become the remote causes of local inflammation. In other instances, inflammation appears to arise spontaneously, or, as I should rather say, without any perceptible exciting Cause. The principle, on which the application of cold to a part becomes the remote cause, of inflamma- tion, is not decidedly known. ■ “ No subject, (says a distinguished professor) is more deserving of your study, than the effects, which are pro- duced in the human body by the operation of cold applied to its surface; but, the subject is at the same time, exceedingly extensive, compli- cated, and difficult. These effects differ accord- ing to the degree, in which the cold is applied, the state of the system, the part of the body to which it is applied, and the mode of its applica- tion. So diversified, indeed, are these effects, that it requires no mean confidence in theoretical reasoning to believe, that the operation of cold in producing them is explicable upon any single general principle.” (See Thomson on Inflam- mation,p. 58.) And in the preceding page, he observes : “ The operation of cold upon the hu- man body affords the best example, which I can suggest to you, of the production of inflammation from the operation of a power acting upon a part at a distance from that, in which the inflamma- tion takes place. The instances formerly men- tioned of inflammation of the throat, chest, or belly, from the application of cold to the feet, are daily occurrences in these climates, of which it is impossible for us, in the present state of our knowledge of the animal economy, to give any thing like a satisfactory explanation. “ In some instances, cold, or a diminution of temperature, seems to act more directly upon the parts, with which it comes into contact. We have examples of this in the inflammation of the mucous membranes of the nose, fauces, trachea, and branchiae, from the inhalation of cold air; and in the production of rheumatic inflammation from the accidental exposure of some part or other of the body to cold. The application of cold, in the instances I have mentioned, seems to have somewhat of a directly exciting effect; and perhaps the same remark is still more applicable to the local effects of cold in the production of the inflammation accompanying the state, which is usually denominated frost-bite. Touching a solid body, as a piece of metal, the temperature of which has been greatly reduced, produces a sensation like that of burning, and may be fol- lowed, like the application of fire, with a blister.” (Op. cif.) Numerous opinions have been entertained re- specting the proximate cause of inflammation ;