35? COL suddenly, and with acute pain, requiring rest and ease; and sometimes alter such symptoms have been removed, Mr. Pott has seen the testicle so wasted as hardly to be discernible. He has also observed the same effect from the injudicious ap- plication ot a truss to a true cirsocele; the ves- sels, by means of thepressure, became enlarged to a prodigious size, but the testicle shrunk to al- most nothing. (Putt's Work,, VA. <?.) Morgagni lias remarked, that the disease is more frequent in the left, than the right sperma- tic cord; a circumstance, which he refers to the left spermatic vein terminating in the renal. (Lie Sedihu.s cl Cans. Marb. Epist. 43. mt. 31.) Cirsocele is more frequently than any other disorder, mistaken for an omental hernia. As Mr. Astley Cooper remarks, when large it dilates upon coughing ; and it swells in an erect, and retires in a recumbent posture of the body. There is only one sure method of distinguishing the two complaints : place the patient in a hori- zontal posture, and empty the swelling by pres- sure upon the scrotum ; then put the fingers, firmly upon the upper part of the abdominal ring, and desire the patient to rise; if it is a hernia, the tumor cannot re-appear, as long as the pres- sure is continued at the ring ; but if a cirsocele, the swelling returns with increased size, on ac- count of the return of blood into the abdomen being prevented by the pressure. (A. Cooper on Inguinal Hernia ) Cirsocele can for the most part only be pal- liated, and seldom radically cured. When the complaint is attended with pain, cold saturnine, and alum, lotions may be applied to the testicle and spermatic cord. At the same time, blood should be repeatedly taken away by means of leeches ; the bowels should be kept gently open; the patient should be placed in a horizontal pos- ture ; and the testicle should be supported in a bag-truss. In general, the patient only finds it necessary to keep up the tes'ticle by this kind of suspensory bandage. Gooch, and other writers, have related cases of cirsocele, in which the pain was so intolerable and incurable, that nothing but castration could afford the patient any relief! (J. A. Murray de Cirsocele, Upsal, 1784. Pott on Hydrocele, 6jc. Richter in Nov. Comment. Goett. No. 4, and in Obs. Chir. Fasr. 2, p. 22. Gooch, Chir. Works. Most, Hiss, de Cirsocele, Ha Ur, 1796.) CIRSOPIITHALMIA. (from y i ■, a va- rix, and atQa’Kyos, the eye.) A general varicose affection of the blood-vessels of the eye. CLAP. (See Gurwrrheen.) COLLYRIUM ACID I ACETICI. Aceti Distillati t;j. Spiritus Vini Tenuioris ^ss. Aq. Rosae Jviij. Misce. The strength to be di- minished, or increased, as circumstances may re- quire. This collyrium is recommended for weak watery eyes, and sometimes for the scrofulous ophthalmy. (See Wilson’s Pluirm. Chir. p. 66.) COLLYRIUM ALUM INIS. fy. Aluminis purif. 3j. Aq. rosrc ^vj. This is a good astrin- gent collyrium, employed at Guy’s Hospital. COLLYRIUM AMMONIAS ACETATA2. ft. Liq. ammon. acet. Aq. rosne sing. S’;. M. COLLYRIUM AMMONI/E ACETATA5 CAMPHORATUM. Collyrii ammon.acet. Misturre camphoratte sing. ^ij. M. CON COLLYRIUM AMMONIAS ACETATAE OPIATUM. {-y. Collyrii ammon. acet. ^iv. Tinct. opii. gutt. xl. M. COLLYRIUM CUPRI SULPHATIS CAMPIIORATUM. |-y. Aq. Cupri sulphatis camphoratae Jij. Aq. distillatae 3'iv. M. Re- commended by Mr. Ware, for the purulent oph- thalmy of children. Collyrium hydrargyri oxy- MURIATIS. [•}/. Hydrarg. oxy-muriatis grss. Aq. distillat. SJiv. M. This collyrium is fit to be employed, after the acute stage of the ophthalmy has for some time subsided, and it will disperse many superficial opacities of the cornea. COLLYRIUM OPIATUM. §. Opii Ex- tracti gr. x. Camphorae gr. vj. Aquae distil— latse ferventis <xii. Beat the two first ingre- dients together in a mortar, and mix the hot water gradually, and strain the fluid. This collyrium is recommended in some oph- thalmies, attended with great pain and swelling. (See Wilson's Pharm. Chir. p. 70.) COLLYRIUM PLUMBI ALETATIS.— 1^. Aquae rosae ?vj. Plumbi acetatis. Jss. Misce. or, £(,. Aq. distillatae ^iv. Liq. plumbi acetatis. gutt. x. M. This is a good applica- tion to the eyes, when one of a gently astringent, cooling quality is indicated. COLLYRIUM ZINCI SULPHATISv— Zinci sulphatis gr. v. Aq. distillatae ^iv. M. This is the most common collyrium of all: it may be made gradually stronger. COLLYRIUM ZINCI SULPHATIS CUM MUCILAGINE SEMINIS CYDO- NII MALI, [y. Aq. plantaginis ^iv. zinci sul- phatis gr. v. et mucil. sem. cydon. mal. ^ss. M. In order to check the morbid secretion from the eyelids, in cases of fistula lachrymalis, or what Scarpa calls iijiusso palpebrale purj’orme, this celebrated Professor recommends a few drops of the above collyrium to be insinuated between the eyelids and the eye. COLPOCELE. (from xox?to:, the vagina, and r.yjXr, a tumor.) A tumor, or hernia, situated in the vagina. COLPOPTOSIS. (from xsXr:;, the vagina, and vjiTilu;, to fall down.) A bearing or falling down of the vagina. (See Vagina, Prolapsus oj.) COMA, (from xcuor xfw, to lie down ) An- ciently any total suppression of the powers of sense ; but now it means a lethargic drowsiness. It is a symptom of several surgical disorders. COMMINUTED, (from comminuc, to break in pieces.) A fracture is termed comminuted, when the bone is broken into several pieces. COMPRESS, (from comprimo, to press upon.) Folded linen, lint, or other materials, making a sort of pad, which surgeons place over those parts of the body on which they wish to make particular pressure, and for this purpose, a bandage is usually applied over the compress. Compresses are also frequently applied to pre- vent the ill effects, which the pressure of hard bodies, or tight bandages, would otherwise oc- casion. COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. (See Head, Injuries of.) CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. (See Head, Injuries of’.) CONDUCTOR, (from conduce, to guide.) A surgical instrument for directing the knife