453 FRACTURES. used was what is commonly called a roller. This was of different lengths according to the sur- geon’s choice, or as it was used in the form of one, two, or more pieces. “ By such kind ol bandage three intentions are aimed at, and said to be accomplished, viz. to eon- line the fracture, to repress or prevent a flux of hu- mours, and to regulate the callus, (see Duverney:') but whoever will reflect seriously on this matter, will soon be convinced, that although some sort of bandage is necessary in every simple fracture, as well for preserving some degree of steadiness to the limb, as for the retention of the applica- tions, yet none, nor either of these three ends can be answered merely, or even principally, by bandage of any kind whatever : and therefore, if this should be found to be true, that is, if it should appear, that whatever kind of deligation be made use of, it cannot be a principal, but only an accessary kind of assistance, and that in a small degree, and very little to be depended upon, it will follow that such kind of bandage as is most difficult to be applied with justness and exactitude, such as is soonest relaxed and out of order, such as stands most frequently in need of renewal, and, in suph renewal, is most likely to give pain and trouble, must be more improper and less eligible, than one which is more easily applied, less liable to be out of order, and which can be adjusted without moving the limb, &c. “ The best and most useful bandage for a simple fracture of the leg or thigh, is what is commonly known by the name of the eighteen- tailed bandage, or rather one made on the same principle, but with a little difference in the dis- position of the pieces. The common method is to make it so, that the parts which are to sur- round the limb make a right angle with that which runs lengthways under it; instead of which, if they are tacked on so as to make an acute angle, they will fold over each other in an oblique di- rection, and thereby sit more neatly and more securely, as the parts will thereby have more connexion with and more dependence on each other. In compound fractures, as they are called, every body sees and acknowledges the utility of this kind of bandage preferably to the roller, and for very obvious and convincing reasons, but particularly because it does not become neces- sary to lift up and disturb the limb every time it is dressed, or every time the bandage loosens. The pain attending motion in a compound fracture, the circumstance of the wound, and the greater degree of instability of parts thereby pro- duced, are certainly very good reasons for dress- ing such wound with a bandage, which does not render motion necessary; but I should Jje glad to know what can make it necessary, or right, or eligible, to move a limb in the case of simple fracture? what benefit can be proposed by it? what utility can be drawn from it? When a broken bone has been well set, and the limb well placed, what possible advantage can arise from moving it? surely none; but, on the contrary, pain and probable mischief. Is it not the one great intention, to procure unition? Can moving the limb everv two or three days contribute to such intention? must it not, on the contrary, obstruct and retard it? Is not perfect quietude as necessary toward the union of the bone, in a simple a3 in a compound fracture? It is true, that in the one there is a wound which require* to be dressed, and the motion of the limb may in general be attended with rather more pain than in the other; but docs motion in the simple fracture give ease, or procure more expeditious Every benefit then which can be supposed to be obtained from the use of the common band- age or roller, is equally attainable from the use of that which I have just mentioned, with one additional, and to the patient, most invaluable advantage, viz. that of never finding it necessary to have his leg or thigh once, during the cure, removed from the pillow on which it has been properly deposited. In short, to quit reasoning and speak to fact, it is the constant practice at St. Bartholomew’s, and attended with all possible success. We always use the eighteen-tailed band- age ; and never move the limb to renew or ad- just it. (Poll’s Remarks on Fractures, £cc.) In France, an universal preference is given to Scultetus’s bandage in every instance, where we employ the eighteen-tailed one, from which it chiefly differs in being composed of separate pieces admitting of removal, so that when a part of the bandage is soiled, it can be taken away, without disturbing the whole of the dressings. The clean pieces are first stitched to those which are about to be removed, and then they are drawn under the part. In cases of compound fracture, where the bandage is soiled with the discharge in a very short time, and must be often removed, certainly Scultetus’s bandage is the best, par- ticularly as it possesses all the recommenda- tions peculiar to that of the eighteen-tailed kind. (Boyer, Trail?, des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 46.) With respect to the general objects and uses of bandages in cases of fracture, I ought to notice one design of them, which is strongly inculcated in the modern French schools: namely, that of “ benumbing the irritability of the muscles” by the compression resulting from their regular and even application to the whole of the member. In describing the treatment of particular frac- - tures, I shall have occasion to advert to the ex- amples, in which a moderate general compression of the muscles maj' be attended with utility. “ The parts of the general apparatus for a simple fracture, which come next in order, (ob- serves Mr. Pott) are the splints;’’ which are unquestionably the most efficient of all the ap- plications made to a broken limb, with a view of keeping the ends of the fracture steady and in a proper state of contact. Without them, the sur- geon would in vain endeavour to maintain the reduction. “ Splints,” says Pott, “ are generally made of paste-board, wood, or some resisting kind of stuff’, and are ordered to be applied lengthways on the broken limb; in some cases three, in others four; for the more steady and quiet de- tention of the fracture. “ That splints, properly made and judiciously applied, are very serviceable, is beyond all doubt; but their utility depends much on their size, and the manner in which they are applied. “ The true and proper use of splints is to preserve steadiness in the whole limb, without compressing the fracture at all. By the former they become very assistant to the curative in- tention ; by the latter they are very capable o