127 ANEURISM. such as to excite the adhesive inflammation in the coats of the artery. The point of compression must also fall above the laceration or wound of the artery ; for when it operates below, it hastens the enlargement of the tumor; and Scarpa adds, that in practice, bandages which are expulsive and compressive are more useful for making pressure than any tourniquets or instruments, many of which are contrived to operate, without retarding the return of blood through the veins. In order that pressure may succeed, the coats of the vessel, at the place where it is made, must be sufficiently free from disease to be susceptible of the adhesive inflammation. When the arterial coats, round the root of the aneurism, are much diseased, Scarpa considers them as insusceptible of the adhesive inflammation, although com- pressed together in the most scientific manner, and, even when tied with a ligature, which only acts by making circular pressure on the vessel. This statement would appear to derive con- firmation from the following fact: Mr. LangstafT amputated the thigh of a person seventy-five vears of age ; but the vessels were so ossified, that they could not be effectually tied, and the patient died within twenty-four hours. It is ge- nerally supposed, says Mr. Lawrence, that this condition of the arterial coats is incompatible with their union under the application of the ligature. The opinion should be received, how- ever, with some limitation. In a man fifty-nine years of age, bleeding took place nearly a month :: after amputation, from the ossified femoral artery, and Mr. Lawrence was therefore obliged to ex- pose and tie that vessel again for the suppression of the hemorrhage, when he found a hard tube, which cracked immediately the ligature was tight- 2ned : the bleeding, however, never returned. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. 6. p. 193.) This case is mentioned, however, not with any view of i encouraging surgeons to apply ligatures round liseased portions of arteries, a thing which should always be avoided when possible, but to let them oe aware, that an ossified artery is sometimes i susceptible of being permanently closed, when a igature is put round it. With respect to Scarpa’s dea of making pressure operate so as to place i he two opposite parietes of the artery at the nouth of the aneurismal sac, completely in con- act, in order that they be united by the adhesive nflammation, and the cavity of the vessel be obli- erated, I should think with Mr. Hodgson, that f pressure will succeed only under these circum- stances, it will answer very seldom, because, in dmost all aneurismal sacs, a sufficient deposi- ion of coagulum will have taken place to prevent he possibility of placing the opposite sides of the rtery at the mouth of the aneurism in a state of omplete contact. (On Diseases of Arteries, • 172.) Possibly, however, Scarpa’s directions itfer to a point of the vessel, rather beyond the • sual limits of the laminated coagula; and he is articular in recommending the practice only here the aneurism is soft and small. Some advise trying compression in every case f f aneurism, whether small, circumscribed, soft, W exible, indolent, or elevated, diffused, hard, and H a>3ful. Rut, in the latter case, Scarpa repre- [| mts compression as decidedly hurtful. He says □ so, that every bandage which compresses the R aeurism, and also circularly constricts the af- fected part, is always injurious. The bandage, likewise, which compresses only the aneurism, and directs the point of pressure below the rup- ture in the vessel; that which on account of the great size, exquisite sensibility, depth of the root of the aneurism, and fleshy state of the surround- ing parts, cannot effectually compress the artery against the bones, so as to bring the opposite side of the vessel into contact; and, lastly, the com- pression applied to a spontaneous aneurism, at- tended with a steatomatous, ulcerated, earthy dis- ease of the arterial coats, ought to be considered as more likely to do harm than benefit. In cases of a completely opposite description, bandages have produced, and may produce, a radical cure, and should not be entirely disused. (Scarpa on Aneurism, ed. 2. p. 221.) Guattani first employed compression systema- tically for the cure of aneurisms, and out of four- teen cases in which he adopted the plan, four were cured by it. Mr. Freer details other examples ; but, in general, pressure has hitherto been applied to the tumor itself, a method less likely to answer than that of making pressure on a sound part of the artery. Mr. Freer recommends the employ- ment of Sennfio’s instrument, or the following method : first place a bandage, moderately tight, from one extremity of the limb to the other ; then put a pad upon the artery a few inches above the tumor ; next, surrounding the limb with a tour- niquet, let the screw be fixed upon the pad, having previously secured the whole limb from the action of the instrument, by a piece of board wider than the limb itself,' by which means the artery only will be compressed, when the screw is tightened. The tourniquet should now be twisted till the pulsation in the tumor ceases. In a few hours the limb will become cedematous and swelled, when the tourniquet may be removed, and the pressure of a pad and roller Mil afterwards be enough. By experiments which this gentleman made on the radial arteries of horses, these ves- sels were found to become inflamed, and to be rendered impervious by such a process. (Freer, p. 112.) In a modern work, Dubois is stated to have cured an aneurism of the thigh by steady pressure on the vessel for twenty-four hours. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. 4. p. 437.) Mr. A. Cooper describes another machine for compressing the femoral artery, in cases of po- pliteal aneurism : it was used by Sir W. Blizard. “ The points of support for this instrument, were the outer part of the knee, and the great trochanter, a piece of steel passing from one to the other; and to the middle of this a semicir- cular piece of iron was fixed, which projected over the femoral artery, having a pad at its end, moved by a screw, by turning which, the artery was readily compressed, and the pulsation in the aneurism stopped, without any interruption to the circulation in the smaller vessels.” But although the patient on whom it was tried pos- sessed unusual fortitude, he was incapable of sup- porting the pressure of the instrument longer than nine hours. (Med. and Flips. Journal, vol• 8.) Few patients, indeed, can endure the pres- sure of such instruments a quarter of this time, when they are put on sufficiently tight to nnor any chance of obliterating the artery; am, on account of the suffering which they produce, t icy are rarely used by modern surgeons.