115-1 VENEREAL DISEASE. ing out iu streams. The wards were not suffi- ciently ventilated, and the stench was so great, that the places well deserved the appellation of foul. Yet, notwithstanding mercury was thus pushed, (as the favourite expression was) it was then common to see many patients sutler the most dreadful of mutilations, in consequence of sloughing ulcers of the penis; other patients, whose noses and palates were lost; others, who were covered with nodes and dreadful phagede- nic sores. Happily, at the present day, this attachment to violent salivations no longer prevails; simple excoriations and common ulcers are more atten- tively discriminated ; and, even in what are re- puted to be true syphilitic chancres, mercury is seldom given, except in very moderate doses, or such quantities as only gently affect the gums and salivary glands. The surgeon, now no longer blinded with the continual fear of the rapid and furious progress of syphilis when not duly unre- sisted by mercury, avoids the very mode of prac- tice, which was itself the cause of all the aesra- vated forms of the disease. The consequence is, that very bad instances of the ravages of lues venerea are now hardly ever observed in the above hospital, and the few aggravated cases, which are met with, are generally in that state previously to their admission. Another benefit, also resulting from modern investigations, which prove that chancres and all other varieties of the venereal disease do not absolutely require mercury for their cure, is the safety, with which it is now known, that the use of such medicine may be postponed, where the patient’s present state of health would not well bear its exhibi- tion. And, I know, that an ignorance of this fact has formerly caused the death of many a poor sufferer. The greater present mildness of syphilitic dis- eases in England, I ascribe chiefly to the more judicious treatment now adopted, and not to any change, or modification, in the nature of the disorder. There are others, however, who may think as Mr. Fergusson does with regard to sy- philis in Portugal, that the disease has exhausted a great deal of its virulence from long continu- ance amongst us. But, before we are altogether justified in drawing such a conclusion, we must forget all the bad practice, which prevailed in former days, and which, in my opinion, is suf- ficient to account for the more severe forms, in which syphilis then presented itself. According to Mr. Hunter’s ideas, the most simple method of treating a chancre is to extir- pate it with caustic, or the knife, whereby it is reduced to the state of a common sore, or wound, and heals up as such. However, he sanctions this practice only on the first appearance of the chancre, when Lhe surrounding parts are not yet contaminated ; for, he says, it is absolutely ne- cessary to remove the whole of the diseased part, and this object is exceedingly difficult of accom- plishment, when the disease has spread consider- ably. When the chancre is situated on the glans penis, he thought touching the sore with the lu- nar caustic preferable to cutting it away, because the hemorrhage from the cells of the glans would be cohsiderable after the use of the knife. rPl 1... tmtn + fist nf flm /••nil lil.-r* parts as are really diseased; and its application should be repeated till the surface of the sore, after the separation of the last sloughs, assumes a red, and healthy appearance, when it will heal, like any other sore, made with caustic. When the sore is on the prepuce, or the common skin of the penis, and, in an inci- pient state, the same practice may be adopted with success. When the chancre is large, however, it cannot be destroyed with the ar- gentum nitratum, which does not extirpate the increasing sore deeply enough. In such cases, Mr. Hunter thought, that the potassa cum calce might answer better. When the caustic could not be conveniently employed, this author some- times recommended the excision of chancres, a plan which he had adopted himself, and the part afterwards healed with common dressings. However, says he, as our knowledge of the ex- tent of the disease is not always certain ; and as this uncertainty increases with the size of the chan- cre, the cure must be in some measure promoted by proper dressings, and it will be prudent to dress the sore with mercurial ointment. When a chancre is destroyed almost immediately on its first appearance, Mr Hunter believes, that there is little danger of the constitution being infected, as it is reasonable to conclude, that there has not been time for absorption to take place. However, on account of the impossibility of being certain on this point, he recommends mer- cury to be given, from motives of prudence, the quantity of which medicine, he says, should be pro- portioned to the duration and progress of the sore. When the chancre is large, Mr. Hunter deems mercury absolutely necessary, and he conceives, that very little good is tobe done by the extirpation. With respect to dressings for chancres, Mr. Hunter seems to tiave placed a good deal of confidence in those which contain mercury; but, I do not believe, that the same attachment to them prevails now, which existed twenty years ago. And, the established fact of mercury not being absolutely necessary' in any way for the cure of different venereal sores, must have the effect of removing some prejudices on this part of the subject. As common mercurial ointment is always more or less rancid, I have found it in many cases a bad kind of dressing ; and now never apply it to ulcerated surfaces. In ordi- nary cases, I believe astringent lotions made with the sulphate of copper, acetate of lead, alum, &c. answer the best. Some chancres are in- dolent, and require stimulants, like the hydrar- gyri nitrieo-oxvdum blended with ointment, the unguentum hydrargyri nilrati more or less weak- ened, or a solution of the nitrate of silver. Air. Hunter, always partial, even in cases of indolent > chancres, to mercurial dressings, expresses his j preference to a salve, containing calomel, as being more active, than common mercuriaPoint- ment. In phagedenic and sloughing chancres, j the carrot and fermenting poultices, solutions of j the extracts of hemlock and opium; but, par- ticulnrlv, bread and water poultices with opium, and lotions of the arseniate of kali, nitrous acid, and nitrate of silver, merit trial. In general, Air. Hunter was an advocate for changing the dressings very often, because the ennnrates them from the sore, SO as to