AMPUTATION. screw, which is to be turned until the pressure is sufficiently strong to stop the circulation. If the screw require to be turned, for more than half its number of turns to effect this, the strap is not sufficiently tight, or the pad has not been well applied ; and they must be replaced.” (On Gunshot I Founds, p. 204.) In two amputations at St. Bartholomew’s Hos- pital, I saw the tourniquet break after the soft parts had been divided, and, as in one of these cases a good deal of blood was lost, because another tour- niquet happened not to be in the room, and pres- sure on the artery in the groin was not immedi- ately adopted, I coincide with such writers, us recommend the rule of always having two tour- niquets ready. Graefe even goes so far as to advise putting both of them round the limb be- -fore the operation commences, (Normenfur die Abloom* groasrei' Gliedmasscn, p. 48;) but, the frequency of a tourniquet breaking is not so great, I believe, as to demand such precaution, and the plan would be very objectionable in thigh imputations, where it is a material advantage to have plenty of room between the place of the incision and the band which goes round the limb. An assistant, firmly grasping the thigh with both hands, is to draw upward the skin and mus- cles, while the surgeon, beginning with that part of the edge of the knife, which is towards the handle, makes a circular incision, as quickly as jwssible, through the integuments down to the fascia, or, as Mr. Guthrie and Dr. Hennen recom- mend, even completely through it. According to Mr. Guthrie, the skin cannot be sufficiently retracted, unless the fascia be divided, which he appears to think ought rather to be drawn up with the integuments, than dissected from them. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 205. Also Henuen's Military Surgery, p. 263.) On the contrary, Professor Langenbeck is very particu- lar in enjoining surgeons to avoid cutting through the fascia by the first sweep of the knife, because he finds the muscles are better held together, and can be more regularly divided, by cutting them and the fascia at the same time. (Bihl. fiir die Chir. 1. 1. p. 564.) Nor does M. Roux divide the fascia by the first incision. (Mem. sur la Reuniun immediate de la Plaie apres I’Am- pulation circulairr, p. 9. fjvo. Paris, 1814.)! At St Bartholomew’s, the surgeons rarely, or never cut through the fascia with the integuments, but aim at carrying the knife perfectly down to it all round the limb. This at least ought to be done, without fear of doing rather more; for, as Uraefe observes, if the outer layers of the muscles be here and there a little touched, this occasions less pain, than the additional strokes of the knife for dividing any portion of the skin and cellular substance, not completely cut through in the first instance. Graefe also dissents from Mynors and others, who are advocates for cutting the skin obliquely instead of perpendicularly, because he finds the thin edge of the integuments, thus separated from the subjacent cellular membrane, very apt to slough. (Normen Jiir die Abl. gros- terrr Gliedmnssev, p. 102.) In a thigh of ordinary dimensions, the first incision should be made four inches below where it is in- tended to saw the bone. When the thigh is bulky, the large amputationknife will be found the best. Before beginning this first cut, the arm is 71 to be carried under the limb, till the knife reaches almost round to the side on which the operator stands. With one sweep, penetrating at least to the fascia, the knife is then to be brought round to the point, where it first touched the skin. Thus, the wound is more likely to be regularly made, than by cutting first on one side, and then on the other, while the patient is saved some degree of pain, in consequence of the uninterrupted quick- ness, with which the incision is made. At the same time I ought to confess, that the late Sir C. Blicke, and some other surgeons, whom I have seen operate, used to complete the circle by two strokes of the knife so well and expeditiously that their capricious attachment tothisplan could hardly be found fault with. The next object is the preservation of as much skin as will afterwards conjointly with the mus- cles, cut in an oblique direction, cover the end of the stump with the utmost facility. It is ra- ther difficult to lay down any other general prin- ciples, for the guidance of the surgeon in saving integuments. I am disposed to agree with se- veral modern writers, that the painful dissection of the skin from the muscles has been recom- mended and practised to a very unnecessary ex- tent; that is to say, unnecessary, if the division of the muscles be performed in the most advan- tageous manner. Graefe, one of the best sur- geons at Berlin, does not dissect the skin from the muscles at all in amputating the thigh, but takes care, after making the cutaneous incision, to have the integuments, and subjacent flesh very firmly drawn up before commencing the oblique division of the muscles. This retraction he also strongly advises to be done uniformly and smoothly all round the member, lest, in dividing the muscles, any irregular projection of the skin interfere with the requisite movements of the knife. (Normen fur die Abl. grosserer Gliedmas- sen. p. 103.) However, Langenbeck, another of the most skilful operators on the continent, pre- fers detaching the integuments from the fascia for about two finger-breadths. Bibl.jur die Chir. b. 1. p. 561.) as is perhaps the most common practice in the London hospitals. Briinning- hausen thinks skin a better and more durable covering for the end of the bone, than muscular fibres, which after a time dwindle away, and hence he computes the quantity of integuments which ought to be saved, by the measure of the circumference and diameter of the member. Thus, when the limb is nine inches in its cir- cumference, the diameter is about three : there- fore, one inch and a half of skin on each side is to be saved. (Erfahr. ejc. uber die Amp. p. 75.) But this author cuts the muscles perpendicularly, so that he is obliged to separate much more skin from the flesh, than is necessary, when the inci- sion through the muscles is carried obliquely upward.-.Mr. Iley’s method of calculation, which I shall presently notice, appears more adapted to ordinary practice ; and he says, “ the division of the posterior muscles may be begun at halt an inch, and that of the anterior, at three quarters, above the place where the integuments were di- vided.” (Pract. Ohs. in Surgery, p. 528, Ed.U.) With a view of preventing the necessity of dis- secting the skin from the fascia, Mr. Guthrie, as already noticed, commends the plan of cutting through the fascia, together with the integument* by the first stroke of the knife, and retracting