56 AMPUTATION. bones, forming the large articulations, such as the hip, knee, ankle, and elbow; the bones be- come diseased in a manner, which we shall ex- plain in the article (Joints), sometimes with great pain and symptomatic fever; sometimes with very little of either, at least in the beginning. The cartilages covering the ends of these bones, and designed for the mobility of the joints, are totally destroyed; the epiphyses in young subjects are either partially, or totally, separated from the said bones; the ligaments of the joints are so thickened, and spoiled by the distemper, as to lose all natural appearance, and become quite un- lit for all the purposes for which they were in- tended : the parts appointed for the secretion of the synovia, become distempered in like man- ner; all these together furnish a large quantity of stinking sanious matter, which is discharged either through artificial openings, made for the purpose, or through small ulcerated ones. These openings commonly lead to bones which are diseased through their whole texture. When the disease has got into this state, the constant pain, irritation, and discharge, bring on hectic symp- toms of the most destructive kind, such as total loss of appetite, rest, and strength, profuse night sweats, and as profuse purgings, which foil all the efforts of medicine, and bring the patient to the brink of destruction. It is an incontestable truth, that, unless ampu- tation be performed, a patient thus situated must perish ; and it is equally true, that numbers, in the same circumstances, by submitting to the ope- ration, have recovered vigorous health. (See Pott on Amputation.) It is a fact, highly important to be known, that in these cases, amputation is attended with more success, when performed late, than when under- taken at an early period before the disease has made great advances. This is particularly for- tunate, as it affords time for giving a fair trial to such remedies as are best calculated to check the progress of the disorder, and obviate all neces- sity for the operation. (Encyclopedic Method! que, Tom. I, p. 83.) See Joints—White Swelling. 6. Exostoses. Here it will be sufficient merely to mention, that this disease may render amputation neces- sary, when the tumour becomes hurtful to the health, or insupportable, on account of its weight, or other circumstances, and cannot be removed by any of the plans specified in the article Ex- ostosis. 7. Necrosis. Another distemper, sometimes producing a necessity for amputation, is necrosis, or the death of the whole, or of a very considerable part, of the bones of the extremities, accompanied with such extensive abscesses, such disease of the soft parts, such disorder of the constitution, and pro- stration of strength, that every hope of a cure being effected by a natural process must be re- nounced. By necrosis, is here meant, not merely some disease, which destroys the surface ot a bone, but one which extends its depredations to the whole of the internal substance, and that from end to end. Portions of the bones <die from a variety of causes, such as struma, lues venerea, deep-seated abscesses, pressure, &c.; and bones in this state, when properly treated, often exfo- liate and cast off their dead parts. But, when j the whole substance of a bone becomes diseased, : from end to end, frequently no means will avail, i In the words of Mr. Pott, the use of the scalper, ! the raspatory, and the rugine, for the removal of the diseased surface of bones; of the trephine, for perforating into the internal texture of the diseased bone, and of exfoliating applications, (if there be any such whicli merit the name) will prove in many instances unavailing, and, unless the whole bone be removed by amputation, the patient will die. Mr. Pott’s refutation of B'd- guer, who asserts that amputation is not requi- site in these instances, is a masterly and most convincing production ; but I would not exactly do as the former of these writers has done, and positively affirm, that every extensive necrosis, affecting a bone, nearly its whole length, must inevitably require amputation. The power of nature in restoring the bones is sometimes won- derful, as will be hereafter explained. (See Ne- crosis.) The very late period, at which an extensive necrosis may follow the injury of a bone, and make amputation necessary, is sometimes almost incredible. Schmucker details the case of a cap- tain, who received a musket-ball through the left arm, four or five inches above the elbow. The bone was violently struck, but not broken; se- veral exfoliations followed, and after more than a year's treatment, the patient appeared perfectly cured. For nine years this officer remained well; but, at the end of this time, being on a journey, he was attacked with pain and inflam- mation in the wounded part, and febrile symp- toms, He hastened to Berlin, and put himself under the care of Theden and Schmucker. who found an abscess in the situation of the former wound, and, as an opening had been already made, the bone could be felt stripped of its peri- osteum. At length, a piece of bone exfoliated, and became loose, precisely under the brachial artery, which interfered with its removal. Not- withstanding the discharge, the elbow-joint conti- nued swelled, and there were red points observ- able, not only above that joint, but also over the heads of the ulna and radius, indicating dis- ease of those bones. Amputation was therefore performed by Theden, and the patient got quite well. On examining the os brachii, a splinter was found three inches in length, and one in breadth, its edges being thin and sharp, while its centre was more than three lines thick. The bone, every where about the place, where it had been struck by the ball, seemed to consist of cal- lus, without any medullary cavity, and the whole of it dowu to the elbow had no periosteum. The cartilage appeared also disposed to separate, and the periosteum was detached from the radius and ulna, which were likewise affected with necrosis. (See Schmucker’s Vermisclite Clnr. Scliri/ten, 13. 1. p. 23. Ed. 2.) 8. Cancerous and other inveterate diseases, such as fungus lurmalodis. Cancerous, inveterate diseases, and malignant incurable ulcers on the limbs, sometimes render amputation a matter of necessity. In treating of cancer, we shall remark, that little or no con- fidence can be placed either in internal or any kind