!>00 OPIITHALMY. jury, and, in this circumstance, the rest of the the situation and extent of I he opacity. And, in circumference of the globe of the eye exhibits its addition to this risk, it is to be remembered, that ' natural organization, while, in the part above al- if the suppurating point be entirely neglected, or j r luded to, there is a funnel-like depression, at- erroneously treated, the cornea, or sclerotica may j> tended with a considerable diminution in the size be penetrated by ulceration, and, in the first case, ! of the organ. a prolapsus of the iris, an adhesion of this organ ! a s But, says Beer, when an idiopathic external to the cornea, (synechia anterior,) a disfigure- inflammation of the eye has only attained the ment of the pupil, or an irregularity of the cor- I milder degree, expressed by the term taraxis; nea, be produced ; while, in the second, the con- | as, for instance, when the complaint is princi- sequences may be a partial wasting away of the I pally owing to the lodgment of some mechani- eyeball, attended with loss of sight ami of the f I1! cally, or chemically irritating substance under natural shape of the part. (Beer, B. 1, p. | the eyelids; the redness of the conjunctiva and 417.) sclerotica undergoes a remarkable increase on Beer further observes, that, when this species 1 the accession of the second stage; the first of of ophthalmy presents itself in its first stage in ! these membranes becomes somewhat swelled; the form of true chemosis, the prognosis in the [ the pain is lancinating and irregular; and the secretion of tears unusually profuse; but, at the point, where the extraneous substance lodges, an open superficial suppuration occurs, and accord- ing to Beer, the case both in the first and second stage, is generally accompanied with no febrile symptoms. In the first stage, Beer represents the progno- sis as very favourable, provided the disorder does not exceed that degree, to which the name of taraxis is applied ; for, with the aid of proper treatment, the inflammation, when of a healthy kind, may be soon so favourably removed, as not to leave a vestige of it behind. If the cause of the disorder be not greater, than a moderate injury or wound of the eye, any traces of the lesion, which are perhaps still remaining, will disappear as soon as the inflammation subsides. On the other hand, when this kind of ophthalmy presents itself in the form of true chemosis, the prognosis is serious, and must he made with great reserve, especially when the patient is of a weak irritable constitution, a child, very stubborn and unma- nageable, or incapable of following strictly the advice, which he receives from his medical at- tendant ; for, under these circumstances) it will not be in the power of the latter to prevent the complaint from advancing unremittingly to its second stage, in which event, the ill consequences of suppuration will be incalculable. But, if these unfavourable conditions are not present, though the genuine idiopathic chemosis may really have attained a violent, and almost its high- est, degree in the first stage, not only the eye may be saved by prompt atjd judicious treatment, but also the eyesight; nor will the result he dif- ferent, even when the cornea continues for some time deprived of its transparency, and the power of vision impaired by a slight varicose affection of its conjunctival covering. These effects, says Beer, at length completely disappear, less in consequence of the aid of medicine, than of a proper regimen, the uninterrupted enjoyment of a fresh, dry air, &c. The prognosis in the second stage, is under very different circumstances; for, as Beer ob- serves, though the inflammation in the first stage may really not exceed that degree which is im- plied by the term taraxis, yet, if any suppurating point, occasioned by some slight preceding in- jury, be not efficiently treated, or if there he any loss of substance, already produced by the injury itself, a more or less opaque, white cicatrix is apt to remain on the cornea, and cause a permanent impediment to vision in a degree determined by second stage is very unfavourable; for, when the ■ cornea is generally pervaded by suppuration, 1 the eyesight, and, in some degree, the form of - the eyeball, are for ever lost, and it will be lucky, . rf if the case can be brought to a conclusion with j If the mere destruction of the cornea. But, when the matter points at once in several places of the ♦ conjunctiva, round the cornea, all idea of pre- , serving the shape of the eye sufficiently for the : l! application of an artificial eye is out of the ques- | H tion, and the surgeon will be very successful, if j he can now check in moderate time the sup- 1 puration, which continues with a good deal of j general indisposition. An extraordinary relaxa- f tion of the conjunctiva of the lower eyelid, and a j }f consequent ectropium, are the least disastrous j If- effects of the abscesses of the eye thus pro- Hi duced. Lastly, Beer remarks, that when che- ?' mosis is in the second stage, that is to say, ; attended with suppuration of the eye, it rarely : If happens, under the most favourable circum- If stances, that the eyesight and shape of the organ p can be preserved entirely free from permanent injury. (U. 1, p. 418.) Let us next consider the treatment of idiopa- thic external ophthalmy in its modifications of simple inflammation of the conjunctiva, mild acute ophthalmy, or taraxis, and severe acute ophthalmy, with chemosis. According to Mr. Travers, simple inflamma- tion of the conjunctiva, unconnected with injury of the eye, and neither depending upon any established disorder of the system, nor modified ! bjr a scrophulous diathesis, may he easily and J speedily reduced, even in its most .acute form. I by bleeding, and some brisk doses of purgative ; medicine. (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye* p. 247.) For the relief of mild acute ophthalmy. Scarpa recommends low diet, gentle purging, with small repeated doses of antimonimn tar- ’ tarizatum, the removal of any extraneous body lodged under the eyelid, and frequently washing ■ the eye with a warm decoction of mallow leaves, j and covering it with a very soft emollient poul- 1 tice, included in a fine little muslin hag. Mr. j Travers also expresses his decided preference to I a tepid application in the painfully acute stage of j inflammation, and considers simple warm water generally better, than medicated lotions, like the j aqueous solution of opium, or infusions of poppy § and hemlock. # '< When the disease presents itself in its first stage, in the mild form of taraxis, says Beer, it usually runs its course, quite uncomplicated with any general indisposition, and may be cured