NECROSIS. 83o of the body are also diseased. It should also be known, because the information is of practical importance in the treatment, that necrosis has three different stages, or periods. In the first, the bone affected perishes; in the second, the process of exfoliation, or separation of the dead bone from the living, is going on; and, in the third, the separation is completed. (See Weid- mann, p. 8.) The causes of necrosis are not essentially dif- ferent from those, which produce ulcers and gan- grene of the soft parts. As, however, the vitality of the bones are weaker, we may infer, that ne- crosis may be occasioned in them by causes, which are less numerous and intense, and such as would only give rise to suppuration in the soft parts. Every thing, whether in the periosteum, or the substance of the bone, itself, that tends to interrupt the nutrition of the bone, must be re- garded as conducive to the origin of necrosis. It is observed, however, that when the mischief in the periosteum, medulla, or substance of the bone, is of trivial extent, the consequence is merely an abscess. Some of the causes of ne- crosis are external, while others are internal, or const itutionai. Sometimes the life of the bone is instantaneously destroyed by them; but, in other instances, the bone is first stimulated and enlarged, so that its death is preceded by true inflammation. The external causes, which injure the peri- osteum and medullary structure, and thus pro- duce necrosis, are wounds, contusions, pressure, fractures, comminutions, acrid substances, cau- stics, and extreme degrees of heat, or cold. When the periosteum, in consequence of an ex- ternal cause, inflames and sloughs, or is at once deprived of its vitality, as it may be by the action of caustic, fire, or intense cold, the vessels, which conveyed nourishment to the bone, are destroyed, and the death and exfoliation of the denuded portion of the bone are inevitable. But, if the detachment of the periosteum is of little extent, the patient young and healthy, and the treatment calculated to prevent inflammation, and preserve uninjured the vessels distributed to the bone, hopes may be entertained that no part of the bone will die, but that granulations will very soon arise from its surface, being adherent to it as the periosteum was, and that they will grow to and cicatrize with the surrounding parts. Weidmann has explained, that this fact of bones not always exfoliating when deprived of the peri- osteum, which is of great practical importance in the treatment of wounds, was inculcated by Felix Wurtz, Caesar Magatus, and Belloste, at a time when the contrary opinion prevailed. Weidmann also adverts to his own experience and to the experiments of Tenon, in further proof of the preceding fact. [Mem. dc VAcad, de.i Sciences, 1758, p. 372.) On the other hand, when the detached piece of the periosteum is extensive; when the bone itself is contused; or when it has been long ex- posed to the air, the effect of which is to dry up the few vessels, which belong to it; when the inflammation is violent and extensive; when the patient is old, decrepid, or of bad constitution; and, more especially, when improper applications arc used, as was almost always the case in former tunes; necrosis cannot he avoided. An internal necrosis, affecting the spongy texture of tiones, generally arises from constitu- tional causes, though, sometimes an external cause, which seems to affect only the surface of a bone, extends its action to the interior, so as to destroy the medullary membrane, and produce an internal necrosis. In external injuries of the head, where the pericranium is lacerated, contused, or otherwise hurt, or where the outer table, or the diploe, of the skull, is injured, the inflammation frequently extends to the inner table, and the dura mater becomes detached. Hence, a collection of matter forms, which may occasion many bad symptoms, and even death itself; or, if the patient survive, exfoliation of part of both tables of the skull is the consequence. (See Pott's Chir. Works, London, 1779, Vol. 1, p. 32.) The same thing may occur in other bones, as well as those of the cranium. Bromfield had an opportunity of seeing a necrosis of the spongy substance of the upper and internal part of the tibia, brought on by the improper mode, in which an issue was dressed. In order to keep the peas from slipping out of their places, a compress with a shilling in it, and a tight bandage were applied; but, the part was attacked with ex- cruciating pain, and the spongy texture of the tibia in the vicinity became affected with ne- crosis. (Chir. Observations and Cases, Vol. 2, p. 9.) This circumstance, as Weidmann observes, ought not to surprise us: as numerous vessels quit the periosteum to descend into the substance of the bone, to ramify on the medullary cells themselves, and freely anastomose there, it can- not be difficult to conceive, how inflammation, which is at first confined to the outside of the bone, may (through the medium of the vessels, which serve as conductors to it) penetrate more deeply, and extend its ravages in every direction. But, necrosis may proceed from another de- scription of causes, which are of a constitutional nature. In fevers of bad type, in the small-pox, and in the measles, experience lias fully proved, that the bones are sometimes attacked with ne- crosis. Scrofula, lues venerea, and the scurvy, are also diseases,-which, according to the testi- mony of all surgical writers, frequently produce such mischief in the bones as terminates in ne- crosis. It is likewise well ascertained, that mercury, the judicious employment of which in venereal cases will prevent necrosis, or cure them when formed, may itself give rise to the disorder, especially in the lower jaw-bone. (See Mem. dc I'Acad. dc Chir. T. 5, p. 356, 4to.) This happens either in consequence of mer- cury having been introduced too quickly into the system, or because the patient exposes himself to cold, or deviates in some other respect from a proper regimen. Certain necroses of the lower jaw, however, appear also to have been caused by blows, and the application of acrid substances to carious teeth. But, says Weidmann, “ I feel it incumbent upon me particularly to declare, that the irrational treatment pursued by the ancient practitioners, who neither understood the nature of the bones, nor the differences of their diseases, and which treatment is too confidently adopted in our own days, had frequently the effect of killing these parts, by attacking with spirituous, 3 H 2 JL.-.