903 OPIITHALMY. ate and cautious employment of this mineral is el down as generally indispensable in the treat- And, in the interval of the mercurial the nitric acid is alleged often to be of lent, ctlon, •reat service. The preparations of mercury, referred by Mr. Travers, in these cases, are the *xyinuriate in doses of one 7'5 or $ of a grain, nil the hydrargyrus cum creta, in doses of from ve to ten grains, twice or thrice a day. As auxiliaries for allaying irritation, be prescribes ae pulv. ipecac, comp, hemlock, hyosciamus, nd the extract of sarsaparilla, either dissolved in ae decoction, or taken solid. ( Vol. tit. p. 289.) On rheumatic inflammation of the eye, a few observations will be hereafter inserted. Idiopa- 'iic Inflammation of the Internal Textures of he Eyeball, or Internal Ophthalmy In general. Vccording to Beer, internal inflammation of the ye does not always originate in one particular 'exture, but, in some instances, commences in he retina, choroides, &c.; while, on other occa- ions, its principal seat is in the iris, from which nembratie it quickly extends itself to the corpus iliare, and the crystalline lens and its capsule, ir else in another direction to the sclerotica, •ornea, &c. These differences in the seat of he disorder obviously depend upon the way, in .•hich the exciting causes have operated; for, ,-hen they are such as immediately affect the eetina only, the inflammmation must have its rigin in this texture, as when the disorder is iroduced by the effect of the sudden entrance of ■ nv verv strong vivid, or reflected, light into the ->rgan. This case, Beer denominates ophthalmitis , uterna idiopathica, proprie sic dicta. The exciting causes, however, may not affect i lirectly the retina, and parts immediately next 0 it, but may operate chiefly upon the iris, in vhich event, this part is the chief seat of the in- lammation, and the complaint is named both by Schrnidt and Beer, iritis idiopathica. This form }f inflammation, Beer says, is seen after the ex- raction of the cataract, and accidental injuries >f the eye, where the weapon, with which they .vere produced, has either penetrated directly to .he iris, and more or less contused it, or roughly entered the eyeball near the ciliary edge of this membrane, without actually wounding it. (Lehre von den Angenkrankh, li. 1, p. 421.) Symptoms of the first stage of idiopathic internal ophthalmy, properly so culled. While 1 very uneasy sensation of general constriction and tension affects the whole eyeball, and soon ffianges into an obtuse, deep throbbing pain, in- areasiug every instant, and quickly propagating itself over the eyebrows to the top of the head, as Beer observes, the power of vision gradually de- clines, and, at the same time, the pupil, which plainly loses its clear shining blackness, contracts without being deprived of ils circular figure, or drawn out of its natural position, until, at length, it is so completely closed, that the iris seems as if it had no aperture whatever. But, long before this perfect closure of the pupil has taken place, the power of seeing is entirely gone, though after the faculty of perceiving the external light is extinguished, fiery appearances, which trouble the patient seriously, are seen at each pulsation of the blood vessels within the eye. As the de- yelopement of these symptoms is going on, the iris evidently loses its natural colour, becoming, as Beer says, greenish, when it was grey, or blue ; and reddish, when it was brown, or black. In consequence of the iris swelling, and project- ing towards the cornea, the anterior chamber be- comes considerably diminished. Immediately, the least mark of the swelling of the iris is seen, together with a moderate degree of contraction of the pupil, the whole sclerotica assumes a pink- red colour; a plexus of innumerable blood vessels is seen in the conjunctiva; and the cornea loses a good deal of its natural brilliancy, without being actually opaque. The latter symptoms of this form of ophthalmy are attended with manifest general indisposition, and intolerable headach. Sometimes, in the first stage of the case, the pupil, though much lessened, js not absolutely dosed, but thickish, and if examined with a magnifying glass, it has a reddish grey appearance, and the power of vision, notwithstanding the continuance of the aperture, is quite lost. (Beer.) Symptoms in the second stage. According to the same author, while the eye is suffering very irregular throbbing pain, attended with a sensation of heaviness and cold in the eye, an increase of the redness of the conjunctiva, severe constitutional disturbance, and constant shiver- ing, there is suddenly formed at the bottom of the anterior chamber a collection of matter which above presents a horizontal line, but, on every inclination of the head sideways, changes its position. This matter continues to accumulate more and more, until it not only reaches the pupil, but fills the whole of the anterior chamber, constituting the case termed Hypopium. If the disease be left to itself, says Beer, the matter collects in such quantity, that the cornea is rendered more prominent, and afterwards conical, very like an abscess, ultimately bursting during an aggravated attack of pain, when the eye shrinks, and the sufferings gradually cease. This kind of hypopium Beer names true, in order to distinguish it from the case, in which the matter passes into the anterior chamber out of an ab- scess in the cornea, and which lie terms a false hypopium. When, at the end of the first stage, the pupil is not entirely closed, one may discern in the second stage, at the period of matter pre- senting itself at the bottom of the anterior chamber, (though not easily with the unassisted eye) whitish filaments, extending from the edge of that opening towards its centre, produced by the coagulable lymph effused in the aqueous humour, the secretion of which was interrupted in the first stage, but now commences again. And, continues Beer, one may perceive, with a good magnifying glass, a very delicate cobweb- like membrane, which, when the matter collected lies over the pupil, and remains for a good while unabsorbed, at iength becomes quite yellow, the matter being really encysted by it in the form of a small lump, which remains in the pupil, and partly projects into the anterior chamber, form- ing the case, which Beer denominates a spurious purulent cataract, to which the edge of the iris is so closely adherent, that sooner than a separa- tion could be effected, the whole of the iris would be torn in pieces. When the pupil lias been com- pletely closed in the first stage, these effects of course cannot take place. Beer remarks, with respect to the causes of this form of ophthalmy, that, as therfc arc not