LITHOTOMY. 785 in the habit of shewing such ail operation, which is as simple in its performance, as the one in ge- neral use, is attended with less danger to the patient, permits of an incision varying in size, according to the wish of the operator, and com- pletely prevents injury of the rectum, or pudic artery. To perform this operation, I introduce into the urethra a common curved staff, then make the usual incision into the perinaeum, di- vide fully and freely the levator ani, so as to ex- pose the whole extent of the membranous part of the urethra, the complete extent of the prostate gland, and a portion of the side of the neck of the bladder. When this part of the operation is finished, I open the membranous part of the urethra, and introducer through the slit a straight or female staff, with which I feel the stone, and then withdraw the curved staff. This done, I grasp the handle of the staff firmly in my left hand, and with the right lay hold of the knife. Having ascertained, that the two instruments are in fair contact, I rest the one hand upon the other, pressing them together, and then by a steady extraction, I pull out the knife and staff together, which is preferable to drawing the knife along the staff; it prevents the risk of the one slipping from the other; it guards the bulb of the urethra, and evei’y other part from injury; for, between them and the cutting instrument, the staff is interposed&c. “ When intro- ducing the knife, the side of the blade must be laid flat along the fore-finger of the right hand which is to project a little beyond the point. In this state the finger and knife are to enter the wound, opposite the tuber ischii; but, in propor- tion as they pass along, they are to be inclined forward, till at last, with the point of the finger, the staff is to be felt through the coats of the blad- der, a little beyond the prostate, and rather higher than the orifice of the urethra. Here the knife is to be pushed, with the finger, through the bladder, and when the point is fairly fixed in the groove of the staff, the operation is to be finished by the steady extraction of both instruments.” (Allan Burns, in Edinburgh Surgical Jour- nal, No. 13.) The knife of Cheselden does not require so much violence to divide the parts as the gorget does; cannot slip in some instances before, in others behind the bladder; and it will make a wound sufficiently ample for the easy extraction of the stone, without the least laceration. 7’he possibility of its wounding the rectum, Dr. Thomson thinks might be obviated by employing it as follows : “ After having made the external incisions, and divided the membranous part of the urethra, in the way that it is usually done for the introduction of the beak of the gorget, a straight-grooved staff is to be introduced into the groove of the curved staff] and pushed along it into the bladder. The curved staff is then to be withdrawn, and the surgeon, laying hold of the handle of the straight staff with his left hand, and turning the groove upwards and a little out- wards, presses the back of it downwards towards the right tuber ischii, and holds it steadily in that position. The point of a straight-backed scalpel being now introduced into the groove of the staff, with its cutting edge inclined upwards and a lit- tle; outwards, is to be pushed gently forwards into the bladder. The size of the scalpel need only be such as will make a wound in the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, sufficiently large to admit the fore-finger of the left hand. The scalpel being removed, this finger is to be in- troduced into the bladder, through the wound which has been made, and the staff may then be withdrawn. With the finger the surgeon en- deavours to ascertain the size and situation of the stone. If, after this examination, he judges the incision in the neck of the bladder to be too small for the easy extraction of the stone, he next in- troduces into the bladder a straight probe-pointed bistoury, with its side close to the fore part of his finger, and its cutting edge upwards. By turning this edge towards the left side, and by keeping the point of his finger always beyond the point of the bistoury, he may safely divide, in the direction of the first incision, as much of the prostate gland, and neck of the bladder, as he shall deem necessary.” (See Observations on Lithotomy, efre. with a Proposal for a new Manner of Cutting for the Stone, by J. Thom- son, M.D. one of the Surgeons of the Royal Infirmary, <fpc. Edinb. 1808.) In this small work, the reader will find additional particulars. Mr. Allan, who is a strenuous advocate for using the knife instead of the gorget, directs us, after laying bare the urethra, and bringing the staff so as to form a right angle with the patient’s body, to feel that the instrument is fairly lodged in the bladder. The operator is to use the fore- finger of his left hand as a director in feeling for the groove in the staff] and in distinguishing the prostate gland; and, with this finger, he is to de- press the rectum, and direct the deeper part of his dissection. “ Feeling the gland, with the point of the fore-finger of the left hand, and the groove of the staff' in the upper part of the wound, the assistant is desired to steady his hand, and the operator, holding his knife as he does a writing pen, his fingers an inch and a half from the point, turns up its edge towards the staff, and strikes its point through the membranous part of the urethra into its groove, half an inch before the prostate gland. He now turns the back of the knife to the staff] slides it a little backwards and forwards in the groove, that he maybe sure he has fairly entered; then shifts the fore-finger, with which he guides the incision, places it under the knife, and carries always be- fore the point of it, to prevent the rectum being wounded; he then lateralizes the knife, enters the substance of the prostate, is conscious of running the scalpel through its soiid and fleshy substance, and judges, by the finger, of the extent of the incision which he now makes. The urine flows out; he slips his finger into the opening, with- draws the scalpel, and gives it to an assistant, who hands him the forceps, which he passes into the bladder, using the fore-finger of his left hand, which is still within the wound, ns a conductor. The forceps instantly encounter the staff, which serves to conduct them safely into the bladder, while the finger guides them through the wound ; &c.” (Allan on Lithotomy., j>- 48, Edinb. 1808.) I leave the reader to judge, which of the fore- going modes of operating with a common knife claim’s the preference. Ferbnps Cheselden’s 3 E