ANEURISM. 137 contrivances are now so fully rejected by all good surgeous, for reasons which will be quite intel- ligible. after the perusal of another part of this work, (See Hcmurrhagt,) that I shall not at pre- sent detain the reader with animadversions on their danger. As for several kinds of metallic compressors, intended to be applied to the exposed arterv, for the purpose of rendering it impervious, they are inventions which have been made and extolled by some surgeons of high repute, whose names would give importance even to a less meri- torious proposition. Dubois conceived, that hemorrhage might1 sometimes proceed from the circumstance of a ligature making its way too fast through the ar- tery. He thought, also, that the sudden stop- page of the current of blood by a tight ligature might bring on gangrene of the limb, particularly, where the aneurism was not of long standing, so that the collateral branches had not had time to enlarge. Dubois, therefore, proposed a method of giuduully stopping the flow of blood through the artery; and, by this ingenious imitation of the process of nature, to promote the gradual dilata- tion of the collateral arteries, and obviate all risk of gangrene in the lower part of the limb. This gentleman put his plan in execution, and two in- stances of success are recorded. The cases were popliteal aneurisms. A ligature was passed under the artery in the manner of Hunter; its two ends were then put through an instrument, called a serre-nceud, with which the compression was gra- dually increased. It is stated, that, in one of these cases, the plan made the artery inflame and become impervious, in the course of the first night, so that on the following day the throbbing of the tumour had ceased. (Richerand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 4, p. 10J), Edit. 4.) Here, however, it is to be suspected, that the pressure of the appa- ratus was greater, than was calculated; and that the stoppage of the pulsation was more owing either to this cause, or to the coagulation of the blood, in the sac and adjoining portion of the ar- tery, than to the process of obliteration, which could hardly have been so rapidly accomplished. Assalini’s compressor is an instrument, calcu- lated, as its inventor states, to produce an oblite- ration of the trunks of arteries, without divid- ing, or injuring their coats. It is nothing-more, ' than a small pair of silver forceps, the blades of which are broad and flat at their extremities, between which the artery is compressed. A spring, composed of a piece of elastic steel, is at- tached to the inside of one of the handles, and by pressing against the opposite handle, retains the flat ends of the blades in contact. This spring is intended to be very weak in its operation; but, ; by means of a screw, which passes through the ' handles, the pressure admits of being regulated and increased at the option of the surgeon. A representation of Assalini’s compressor may 1 be seen in his Manuale tli Chirnrgiu, purttPrima, V- 113. In the same book, or, in my friend Mr. ItHodgson’s valuable Treatise on the Diseasts of Ar- teries and Veins, which every practical surgeon ought to possess, a case may be perused, in which this instrument was successfully employed by Pro- fessor Monteggia, and withdrawn entirely, as early aS 8ixty hours after its application. This last distinguished surgeon also used the compres- sor in an example, in which the femoral artery wa6 wounded, and bled in am-alarming degree. Alter forty hours, the pressure was lessened, and, in four hours more, as not a drop of blood issued from the vessel, and there seemed to be no good in leaving an extraneous body in the wound any longer, the instrument was taken out altoge- ther. (See Assailin'sMamude di Clnrurgia,p. 110.) When Assalini was in England, he acquainted Mr. Hodgson, that, in two cases of popliteal aneurism, in which he had himself employed this means of obliterating the femoral artery, the in- strument was removed at the expiration of twenty- four hours; no pulsation returned in the tu- mours ; and the patients were speedily cured. With respect to the particular merit of this in- vention, it certainly possesses the recommenda- tion of ingenuity; but, it operates much in the same manner, as several other mechanical con- trivances, the serrenceud of Desault, the presse- artere of Deschamps, that of Mr. Crampton, (See Med. Chir. Tunis. Vol. 7.) the pincers of Baron Percy, &c. If there be a real advantage in the division of the internal coats of an artery by the ligature, as the experiments of Jones seem to prove, and as many of the best surgeons in this country inculcate (See Hemorrhage and Ligature), then the compressor cannot be an eligible means of obliterating an artery. It maybe said, however, that experience has proved its efficacy; but, let it be recollected, that almost every method of ope- rating for aneurisms has sometimes answered. Further experience is requisite to determine, whether Assalini’s compressor would succeed as often as, or more frequently, than, the scientific application of the right kind of ligatures (See Ligature) which may perhaps seem slower in their effect, only because they are not in general re- moved as early as Assalini’s instrument. In fact, the experiments of Mr. Travers have now proved, that the ligature is the quickest in its operation, (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 643, dfc.) In 1816, some ingenious observations were published by Mr. Crampton, on the effects of the ligature and of compression in obliterating arteries. The purport of his remarks is to prove, like the later observations of Scarpa; 1 st. That the obliteration of an artery can very certainly be effected, independently of the rupture, or division of any of its coats; 2dly, That this operation of the ligature, so far from being essential to the process, not unfrequently defeats it. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 344, 345.) With respect to the first of these assertions, I presume that all practical surgeons have known and admitted it, especially, if the words very cer- tainly be left out. Every system of surgery, for half a century past, has recorded the occasional cure of aneurism by different modes of compres- sion, by which the adhesive inflammation is ex- cited in the artery, or the coagulation of the blood in the ancurismal sac brought about. As, however, the most experienced surgeons have found the method less certain than the use of the ligature, it is not represented by any modern writers, as deserving equal confidence; though there are circumstances, in which sitnple pressure may be sometimes tried, with a hope of doing away all occasion for an operation. 'I he cases, however, in which compression is applied directly to the artery itself by means of ligatures, with the intervention of other substances, ns advised