428 ERY lief to the^tense skin, at the same time that they form channels for the escape of fluid, and the pre- vention ol bags of matter. After the operation, fomentations, or saturnine lotions, are employed. By the preceding kind of treatment Mr. Hutchison thinks the fatal termination of the disease may be rendered less frequent, and gan- grenous mischief wholly prevented. He supports this assertion with observing, that he never lost a case in the Deal Hospital for the last five years, during which the practice was followed. (See Med. Chir. Trans Vol. 5, p. 278, dfc.) On the proposal of this new treatment, I shall make very little comment, because I have never seen it tried. But, I shall venture to state, that I have not much opinion of it. What? are all the principles of surgery now so changed, and is the nature of the human body and constitution so altered, that inflamed parts are to be soothed by maiming and wounding them, or to use the author’s words, by making “ from six to eighteen incisions” in them? I would beg leave to ask, whether from six to eighteen deep cuts down to the muscles could ever be made in an unin- flamed part, without producing inflammation ? It is to be remarked, however, that formerly Mr. Hutchison, before his adoption of this plan, used to apply to the part affected cupping glasses, which every surgeon knows will often of them- selves irritate so much by their pressure, inde- pendently of the scarifications, as to make the sound skin inflame, and sometimes slough. We must not wonder, therefore, that his early treat- ment of phlegmonous erysipelas did not answer. As we have mentioned above, on the authority of Boyer and other eminent surgeons, incisions may undoubtedly become necessary in erysipelas; but, not before there is matter to be discharged. When once its existence is ascertained, the em- ployment of the knife cannot too speedily follow. With regard to the treatment of the gangrenous erysipelas, nothing more need be said than what is contained in the article on mortification. Consult Desaull’s Parisian Chir urgica l Journal, Vol. 2. Also CEuvres Cliirurgicales dc Desault par Bichat, T. 2, p. 581, §c. Encyclopedic Methodique, Partie Chirurgicale, art. Erysipele. Cullen’s First Linesnfthe P ractice of Physic, Vol. 1. Pearson’s Principles of Surgery. Some Parts of Hunter's Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, fyc. Richeravd, Nosogr. Chir. T. 1, p. 118, Iflc. Edit. 2. Lassus, Pathologie Chir. T. 1, p. 8, <%c. Edit. 1809. Trade des Maladies Chir. par M. le Huron Boyer, Toni. 2, p. 6, et stq. A. C. Hutchison in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 278, Sjc. and Practical Obs. in Surgery, 181G. T. Bateman, A Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, p. 125, Sfc. Ed. 3. Diet, des Sciences Med. Vo/. 13, p. 253, ifr. ERYTHEMA, (from eouQco;, red.) A red- ness of any part. A mere rash or efflorescence, not accompanied by any swelling, vesication, or fever, circumstances which, according to Dr. Bateman, distinguish it from erysipelas. (Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, p. 119, Ed. 3.) Its six varieties are described in the latter work. For the erythema mercuriale, see Mercury. The term is often wrongly applied to eruptions, at- tended with redness, and distinct papular and vesicular elevation, as we see in the instance of mercurial erythema, which Dr. Bateman says should be named eczema. EXF ESCHAR, (from ioyo%r.u, to form a scab, or crust.) This term is applied to a dry crust, formed by a portion of the solids deprived of life. When any living part has been burnt by the actual, or potential, cautery, all that has been submitted to the action of this application, loses its sensibility and vital principle, becomes hard, rough on the surface, and of a black, or grey, colour, forming what is properly named an eschar, a slough, produced by caustics, or actual fire. ESCHAROTICS. (from ir/a^oa>, to form a crust over.) Applications, which form an eschar, or deaden the surface on which they are put. By escharoties, however, surgeons com- monly understand the milder kinds of caustics, such as the hydrargyrinitrico-oxydunt, subacetatc of copper. See. EXJERESIS. (from i^atour, to remove.) One of the divisions of surgery adopted by the old surgeons; the term implies the removal of parts. EXCORIATION, (from excorio, to take off the skin.) A separation of the cuticle; a soreness, merely affecting the surface of the skin. EXFOLIATION, (from exfolio, to cast the leaf.) The separation of a dead piece of bone from the living, is termed, exfoliation. One part of a bone is never separated from another by the rotting of the dead part, for that which comes away is as firm as it ever was. Exfoliation takes place with most expedition in bones, which have the fewest cells, and whose texture is the closest. Before any part of a bone can be thrown off by exfoliation, it must be dead. But, even then, till the process of exfo- liation begins, the bone adheres as strongly as ever, and would remain for years, before it could be separated by putrefaction alone. The human bones are composed of two substances, viz. a true animal matter, and an earthy one, the phosphat of lime, which are only mixed with each other. A dead bone acts on the sys- tem, in the same manner, as any other extrane- ous body. It stimulates the adjacent living parts, ih consequence of which, such a process is begun, as must terminate in its being thrown off. The effects of this stimulus are first, that the living adjacent bone becomes more vascular ; a circumstance, which always takes place, when a part has more to do, than is just sufficient for the support of life. Secondly, that the earth of the living part, where it is in contact with the dead bone, is absorbed; and there the bone be- comes softer, and adheres by its animal matter only. As Mr. Wilson has stated, “ before any mark of separation is seen on the surface, the living bone surrounding the dead, for the ex- tent of a mere line, has become as soft as if it had been steeped in acid.” (On the Skeleton and Diseases of the Bones, p. 231,8vo. London, 1820.) Thirdly, that the living animal part is at last absorbed along the surface of contact: this part of the process commences, however, long before the last is finished; and both of them begin at the surface; though, in their course, they do not every where take place in an equal degree at the same time. Fourthly, in proportion to tire waste, made by the last part of the process, granulations arise front the living surface, and