SOU 979 SOL . ye. Hence, any conjecture, respecting the latitude of an object, is constantly erroneous, lless the distance be ascertained. Size is in- ariably something relative. A single large ob- ct, surrounded by many small ones, always ap- iars to be larger than it really is; et vice versa, .a object whose magnitude is known, seems nailer than it actually is, when one has been a ttle previously looking at another that is still rger. Lastly, the refraction of the rays of jht in the eye, by which operation an object is aue to appear large or small, is not always ac- implished in the same degree, as the eye is not all times equally full and distended with its imours. Hence, at one time, the same object 11 appear to the same eye, and at the same di- mce, larger; at another time, smaller. Some- nes, however, the eye judges so erroneously of e magnitude of objects, that there is reason for garding the case as an infirmity, or disease, is for the most part owing to a defective sen- ility in the nerves, caused by some species of ritation acting upon the eye, and generally ated in the gastric organs. A man, to whom ■ery thing seemed one half smaller and nearer, an it really was, was cured by means of an netic, bark, an issue and valerian. (Leutin, s. fascic.) ~ Sometimes to the eye, under circumstances of sease, straight lines appear serpentine; perpen- :ular objects, sloping, things standing upright, be inverted, &c. All these cases are set down Richter as depending upon a wrong sensibi- y of the nerves, occasioned by the effect of me irritation. The irritation, he says, may be : many kinds; but, experience proves, that it is > )stly seated in the gastric organs. These de- :ts of sight may generally be cured by first ex- biting emetics and purgatives, and afterwards ving recourse to remedies for strengthening : 3 nerves, bark, oleum animale, valerian, issues, 3. One mark of a very weak and irritable eye, when objects, after being looked at a good file, and presenting a right appearance, begin move, swim about, mix together, and, at igth, become quite indistinguishable. This ineipally happens when the objects regarded 3 small and strongly illuminated. Here such nedies, both general, and topical, as have the ect of invigorating the nerves, are indicated, owever, sometimes, the infirmity is partly ing to the operation of some species of irrila— n, which will require removal, ere the tonic .'dicines and'applications can avail. Indeed, particular cases, the dispersion of such ir- ation is alone sufficient to accomplish the re. Sometimes, all objects appear to the eye, as ihey were in a more or less dense mist. This feet in vision is always owing either to some ^ht opacity of one of the humours of the eye, to excessive debility of the optic nerves, ee Richter, Anfungxgr. tier Wwndarzn. li. P 521, dfc.) SINUS.—A long, narrow, hollow track, 'ding from some abscess, diseased bone, &c. SOLUTIO ARGENT1 NITRATL—R. genti nitrati £)j. Aq. distillat ^ss M. This a very good application for sores, which arc •quently met with round the roots of the nails, tli of the fingers and toes. It is also useful in herpetic affections, noli-me-tangere, and se- veral kinds of ulcers. The proportion of the ar- gentum nitratum may be lessened, or increased, as occasion requires. A strong solution of this substance is a good application for destroying warts, to which it must be applied, by means of a hair-pencil. When used for sores, it is best to dip little bits of soft lint in it, lay them on the part affected, and cover them with a common pledget. SOLUTIO FERRI SULPHATIS.—R. Ferri sulphatis ad albidinem calcinati 3j. Aq. Distillat. ^viij. Misce. Has been recommended as an application for sores on the nipple, and other ulcers. SOUND. An instrument, which surgeons introduce through the urethra into the bladder, in order to discover, whether there is a stone in this viscus, or not. The sound is usually made of very highly polished steel, that it may be well calculated for conveying to the surgeon’s fingers the sensation of any thing, against which its end may strike. It is also generally rather less curved, than a catheter, so that its extremity may be more easily inclined to the lower part of the bladder, where the stone is most frequently si- tuated. SOUNDING. The operation of introducing the foregoing instrument. Sounds are generally introduced much in the same way as catheters, either with the concavity towards the abdomen, or the convexity, in which last method, it is necessary, as soon as the beak of the sound has arrived in the perineum, to bring the handle of the instrument downward by a semicircular movement to the right, while the other end is kept as much fixed as possible. This is what the French term the coup, or tour de maitre; a plan, that is often followed at the pre- sent day, though, except in very corpulent sub- jects, it has no particular recommendation. When a patient is to be sounded, he is usually put into a posture very similar to that adopted in the lateral operation for the stone, with the ex- ception that he is not bound in this position, as there is sometimes an advantage in making the patient stand up, in order that the stone may come into contact with the end of the sound. The instrument having been introduced, its ex- tremity is to be turned, and moved in every di- rection, when, if there be a calculus, its presence will usually be indicated by the collision against the beak of the sound. Stones have sometimes been found in the bladder after death, although they could never be discovered with a sound while the patient was alive, suffering all the symptoms of the complaint. The celebrated French surgeon La Peyronie was thus circumstanced: he was so fully con- vinced of there being a stone in bis bladder, not- withstanding neither he, nor any of his friends could feel it with a sound, that, on his death-bed, he gave directions for ascertaining the fact. Hence, when the usual symptoms of a stone in the bladder continue, patients should be searched several times, before a positive opinion is de- livered respecting the nature of the disease. When during the operation of sounding, all the urine has escaped from the bladder, the inner surface of this viscus comes into contact with the end of the sound, and such a sensation may lie 3 R 2