LITHOTOMY. 793 treduced slowly along the concavity of the in- strument. When the urethra and neck of the bladder have thus been sufficiently dilated, the tim'er is withdrawn, and a small pair of forceps passed into the bladder. The gorget is now re- moved, and the stone taken hold of, and ex- tracted. (Sabatier, Mtdecinc Opiratoirc, T. 2, p- 103.) This plan, however, is liable to the objections arising from the dilatation being too suddenly effected ; and the practice now generally pre- ferred is that of gradually expanding the meatus urinarius with sponge tent. And, as the re- tention of the urine, during the continuance of the sponge, causes great irritation, I consider Mr. C. Hutchinson’s suggestion of placing a catheter in its centre, as mentioned by Sir A. Cooper, as meriting attention. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 433.) Notwithstanding these favourable accounts of the practice of dilating the female urethra, for the purpose of removing calculi from the blad- der, there are very good surgeons wlfo deem an incision the best practice. It is certain, that some patients have found the method insufferably tedious and painful. But the strongest objection is the incontinence of urine, which occasionally follows any great distention of the urethra and neck of the bladder. Klein, one of the most ex- perienced operative surgeons in Germany, states, that he has tried both plans, and that the use of the knife is much less frequently followed by in- continence of urine. On the other hand, Mr. Thomas believes, that this unpleasant symptom is quite as often a consequence of the operation of lithotomy, as now usually performed. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 1, p. 127.) When the stone is not very large, perhaps, dilatation should be preferred; and, in other cases, an incision. In females, lithotomy is much more easy of execution, and less dangerous, than in male sub- jects. it may be done in various ways; but the surgeons of the present time constantly follow the mode ot making the requisite open- ing by dividing the urethra and neck of the bladder. Louis employed for this purpose a knife, which cut on each side, and was contained in a sheath ; Le Blanc, a concealed bistoury, which had only one cutting edge; Le Cat, his gorgeret-cystitome; Frere Come, bis litbotome cache; and Fleurant a double bladed litbotome cache. Of these instruments, the best, I think, is that of Frere Come. But, at present, every surgeon knows, that the operation may be done, as conveniently as possible, with a common director and a knife, that has a long, narrow, straight blade. A straight staff or director, is introduced through the meatus urinarius; the groove is turned ob- liquely downwards and outwards, in a direction parallel to the ramus of the left os pubis; and the knife is thus conducted into the bladder, and makes the necessary incision through the whole extent of the passage, and neck of the bladder. Louis and Fleurant, as I have said, were the inventors of particular bistouries for dividing both sides of the female urethra at once. The instru- ment of the former effected this purpose, in pass- ing from without inwards; that of the latter, in passing from within outwards. Fleurant’s bis- toury bears some resemblance in principle to I rere Gome’s litbotome cache, or to the cutting forceps, with which Franco divided the neck of the bladder. The reason, assigned in re- commendation of these bistouries, is, that they serve to make a freer opening for the passage of large stones, than can be safely made by cutting only in one direction. When the calculus is large, it is certainly difficult to procure a free opening, without cutting the vagina, in front of which passage there is but little space under the pubes for the removal of the stone. Hence, Dubois invented a new method, which consists in dividing the meatus urinarius directly upwards towards the symphysis of the pubes, dilating the wound and keeping the vagina out of the way by means of a blunt gorget, and then taking out the calculus with the forceps. This method seems to me better devised for the protection of the vagina, than the acquirement of more room for the calculus, and, whatever space is gained, is only gained by the distention of the parts, and the propulsion of them downwards. The plan is ac- knowledged to be very painful, yet generally suc- cessful, and not followed by any serious symptoms or incontinence of urine. (See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 28, p. 436.) When the stone is known to be very large, Sabatier and some other modern surgeons prefer the apparatus altus. A case may present itself, in which the pos- terior part of the bladder, drawn downwards by the weight of the stone, may displace a portion of the vagina, and make it protrude at the vulva in the form of a swelling. Here, there would be no doubt of the propriety of cutting into the tu- mor, and taking out the foreign body contained in it. Rousset performed such an operation, and Fabricius Hildanus in a case, where the stone had partly made its way into the vagina, en- larged the opening, and successfully extracted the foreign body. Mery proposed to cut into the posterior part of the bladder, through the vagina, after intro- ducing a common curved staff; but the appre- hension of urinary fistulas made him abandon the project. The existence of extraordinary circumstances may always render a deviation from the common modes of operating not only justifiable, but ab- solutely necessary. Thus, Tolet met with a case, ■ where a woman had a prolapsus of the uterus, with which the bladder was also displaced. In the latter viscus, several calculi were felt: an incision was made into it, and the stones ex- tracted, after which operation, the displaced parts were reduced, and a speedy cure followed. (Sabatier, Medecinc Opiratoirc, T. 2, p. 107.) rI he incontinence of urine, consequent to litho- tomy in women, is by no means an unfrequent occurrence. Mr. Hey cut two female patients for the stone, both of whom were afterwards un- able to retain their urine, and were not quite well when discharged from the Leeds Infirmary. These cases led Mr. Hey in a third example to endeavour to prevent the evil, by introducing into the vagina a cylindrical linen tent, two inches, long and one broad, with a view ot bringing the edges of the incision together, without obstruct- ing the passage of urine through the urethra. The plan answered, if it be allowable to make such an inference from a single trial. (See He.y's Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 560, Ed. 1810.)