266 LUS. CAL rationc: (ColU Diss.Lovain. 4,321.) G.Ruellan, Qiuestio, Sjc. An ml scrvinuluni pro flitu matron, obstctricum hematite minus anceps ct ceque insons, quoin ad sevvavdum cum itiatre Jivtum seelio Casarea. (Haller, Disp. Chir. 3, 525. Paris, 1744.) A. Lindemann, De Partu Pre- tcrnaturali quern sine Matrix out Foetus Sectione absolverc non licet. 4to. Gott. 1755. Med. Obs. and Enquiries, Vet. 4, p. 274, §c. J. Vaughan, Cases, <5fc. to which is annexed an Account of the Ccesarean Section, <|-c. 8uo. Loud. 1778. P. J. F. Wulckiers, de Hysterotomotocia, sine Sectione Casarea, Lovan. 1785. Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journ. Vol. 4,p. 178, Vol. 8, p. 11. Garthshore’s Obs. on Extra-uterine Cases, in- serted in the 8ch Vol. Land.Med. Journ. Richter's ytnfahgsgr. dcr Wundarzneykunst, B. 7, Kap. 5; Gott. 1804. C. Bell in Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 347, £fc. ; J. J. Lochcr, Vol. 9; and J. J. Lochcr, N. Meyer, F. Spitzbarth, <$f J. Lorinscr, in Vol. 11 of the same work. J. F. Frcymann, De Partu Cats area. 12mo. Mail). Catt. 1797. G. Josephi, uber die Sr.hwanger- schuft ausserhalb der Gebiirmutter, <Fc. 8vo. liostock, 1803. Flajani Osservazioni, S;c. di Chirurgia, T, p, 3,144, Sjc. Roma, 1802. Rhode, Relatio de Sectione Ccesarea feliciter peracla. Ato. Dorpati, 1803. K. Sprengel, Geschichte der Chir. Th. 1, p. 309, §c. 8vo. Halle, 1805. M. Baudeloquc, Two Memoirs on the Ccesarean Operation. Transl. with notes, fyc. by John Hull. 8vo. Manchester, 1811. E. L. Heim, Erfah- rungen, Sfc. uber Schwangcrschaftcn ausserhalb der Gebiirmutter, 8uo. Berlin, 1812. A. J. A. Stevens, De Condilionibus qua apud parturien- tem Sectionein Ccesarcam, vcl potius ilium Syn- chondroneos assium Pubis, postulant. 4to. Lugd. 1817. Dktionnairc dcs Sciences Med. T. 17, p. 419, Paris, 1816, and T. 23, p. 293, Sfc.; 1818. E. Von Siebold, Journal Jiir Gcburts- hiilfe, Fruuenzimmer und Kinderkrankheitcn. 3 B. 8 vo. Francof. 1819. CALCULUS. Calculi form in the ducts of the salivary glands; in the kidneys, bladder, urethra, gall-bladder, &c. A paper on calculi formed in the lachrymal sac, lias just been pub- lished in Grade’s new Journal, (.fin/?-/1. Jiir die Chir. No. 1, Berlin, 1820 ) For an account of, what are commonly called, stones in the blad- der, refer to Urinary Calculi. CALCULUS IN THE INTERIOR OF THE EYE. See Eye, <Jc. CALLUS, New bone, or the substance, which serves to join together the ends of afracture, and for the restoration of destroyed portions of bone. 1. The old surgeons believed callus to be a mere inorganic concrete, a fluid poured out from the extremities of the ruptured vessels, which was soon hardened into hone. They always de- scribed it, as an “exudation of the bony juice,” and imagined that it oozed from the enels of broken bones, as gum from trees, sometimes too profusely, sometimes too sparingly. The re- union of broken bones, and the hardening of callus, they compared with the glueing together of two pieces of wood, or the soldering of a broken pot. (A. Parc.) The old surgeons also conceived, that callus sometimes flowed into the joints, so as to form a clumsy, prominent protube- ranee. 1 hey imagined, that callus was a juice, which congealed at a determinate period of time, and they therefore had fixed days for undoing the bandages of cadi particular fracture. They supposed, that its exuberance might be suppressed by a firm and well rolled bandage, and its knobby deformities corrected by pillows and compresses; that it might be softened by frictions and oils, so as to allow the bone to be set anew. All their notions were mechanical; and their absurd doc- trines have been the apology for all the contrivers of machines, from Hildanus down to Dr. Aitkcn and Mr. Gooch. 2. By Galen and Duhamel, however, a se- cond doctrine was entertained, which imputed the formation of callus altogether to the perios- teum and medullary texture, which were supposed to produce two solid rings round the fracture, the interspace between them being afterwards effaced. 3. A third opinion, maintained by Bordenave, and the best modern observers, is that the pro- cess of nature, in the production of callus, bears a great resemblance to the changes, which take place for the reunion of wounds of the soft parts. A bone is a well organized part of the living body; that matter, which keeps its earthy parts together, is of a gelatinous nature. The phos- phate of lime, to which a bone owes its firmness, is deposited in the interstices of the gluten, under- going a continual change and renovation. It is incessantly taken up by the absorbents, and secreted again by the arteries. It is this con- tinual absorption and deposition of earth}- matter, which forms the bone at first, and enables it to grow with the growth of the body. It is this un- ceasing activity of the vessels of a bone, which enables it to renew itself, when it is broken or diseased. In short, it is by various forms of one secreting process, that bone is formed at first, is supported during health, and is renewed on all necessary occasions. Bone is a secretion, originally deposited by the arteries of the bone, which arteries are continually employed in re- newing it. Callus is not a concrete juice, depo- sited merely for filling up the interstices betwixt fractured bones, but it is a regeneration of new and perfect bone, furnished with arteries, veins, and absorbents, by which its earthy matter is continually changed, like that of the contiguous hone. Indeed, there could be no connexion, between the original bone and callus, were the latter only the inorganic concrete, which it was formerly supposed to be. Notwithstanding the more accurate opinions now entertained, concerning callus, the supposi- tion is still very common, that the slightest mo- tion will destroy a callus, which is about to form. But, says Mr. John Bell, it is an ignorant tear, proceeding merely from the state of the parts not having been observed; for, when callus forms, the perfect constitution of the bone is restored; the arteries pour out from each end of a broken bone a gelatinous matter; the vessels, by which that gluten is secreted, expand and multiply in it, till they form, betwixt the broken ends, a well organized, and animated mass, ready to begin anew the secretion of bone. Thus, the ends of the bone, when the bony secretion commence:** arc nearly in the same condition, as soft parts