su AMPUTATION. AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. The structure of the arm is very analogous to that of the thigh : like the latter it contains only one bone, round which the muscles are arranged. The interior muscles are attached to the os bra- chii, while the more superficial ones extend along the limb, without being at all adherent. The first consist of the brachialis internus, and the two short heads of the triceps: the second, of the biceps, and long head of the triceps. Hence, amputation is here to be done in the same way as in the thigh, unless when we are necessitated to amputate very high up, above the insertion of the deltoid muscle. In the arm, says Graefe, the incisions through the muscles should even be made more obliquely upwards than in the thigh, where the muscles are more bulky, by which means two inches of muscle may be saved, be- sides the retracted integuments; an abundance for covering the stump, were the arm full ten inches in circumference. (Nonnen Jiir die Aid. gri'sstrer, Gliedm. p. 109.) The patient being properly seated, the arm is to be raised from the side, and, if the disease will allow it, into a horizontal position. As I have seen some inconveniences produced by the pa- tient’s fainting in the midst of the operation, I join Graefe and some other practitioners in thinking that the patient, if circumstances will allow, should be placed upon a table in the re- cumbent position. (A'oraioi fur die Abtoning grosserer Gliedm. p. 108.) The surgeon is to stand on the outside of the limb, apply the tourni- quet as high as possible, and to have the skin and muscles which he is about to divide, made tense by the hands of an assistant. The soft parts are next to be divided, as much of this limb being preserved as possible. The retractor to be applied, the bone sawn with the usual precautions, and the bleeding stopped in the ordinary way, care being taken to leave the radial nerve out of the ligature, which is put round the brachial artery. I he wound is then to be closed so as to form a transverse line, the dressings are to be applied, and the patient put to bed, with the wound a lit- tle elevated from the surface of the bedding. In taking ofi the arm, I entirely coincide with Mr. Guthrie, with regard to the uselessness of dissecting back‘the integuments, their effectual retraction by an assistant, after their complete division, being quite enough; (On Gunshot H omuls, p. 354.) but, as I have invariably imi- tated Graefe and others, in making the incisions through the muscles, with the edge of the knife turned very obliquely upwards, it has not ap- peared to me necessary, after cutting down to the bone in this manner, to clear away the muscles lrom it to the extent of an inch and a half, or two inches higher. Instead also of attempting to perform the circular oblique incision through the muscles with one stroke of the knife, the ob- jections to which have been noticed in the de- scription of amputation of the thigh, I have made >t a rule to divide the loose biceps muscle, as soon as the integuments had been cut and re- tracted, and of letting it fully recede, before the division of the rest of the soft parts was begun. If the disease should require the arm to be la cn *t its upper part, there would be no .rootn thu application of the tourniquet. Here instead ot putting a compress in the axilla, and having it held firmly upon the artery by a by- stander, as advised by Sabatier, it is more eligible to make pressure on the artery as it passes over the first rib, of which method I shall speak in treating of amputation at the shoulder- joint. With a straight bistoury, the surgeon is now to make a transverse incision down to the bone, a little above the lower extremity of the deltoid muscle. Two other longitudinal incisions made along the front and back edge of this mus- cle, now form a Map, which must be detached, and reflected. Lastly, the rest of the soft parts of the limb are to divided by a circular cut, made on a level with the base of the flap, and the operation finished like a common amputation. (Sabatier, Medeciue Operutoue, i. 3, p. 375, iSjr. cd. 2.) As a matter of choice, and not at all of neces- sity, the arm may be amputated with two flaps ; one anterior; the other posterior. The first should be formed of the skin and biceps, and be three or four inches in length ; the other is to be of the same size, and composed of the triceps and integuments. The muscular flesh, close to the bone, is now to be divided all round, and the saw used. Klein of late has preferred this to the common method, having adopted it in nine cases. So well is the end of the bone always covered, that a protrusion of it is impossible. (Pructis- die Andchten der Chirurgischen Operationen. P- 44.) When the arm is injured very high up, Baron Larrey differs from Sabatier, and prefers ampu- tation at the shoulder joint to preserving a short stump, containing the upper end of the humerus ; for, says he, if this bone cannot be divided at least on a level with the tendinous insertion of the deltoid, the stump is retracted towards the arm- pit by the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi; the ligatures on the vessels irritate the brachial plexus of nerves; great pain, and nervous thatch- ings, often ending in tetanus, are produced ; the stump continues swelled; and, in the end, the humerus is fixed by anchylosis to the shoulder, so that this portion of the arm remains altogether useless, and renders the patient liable to accidents. “ I have seen (says Larrey) many officers and soldiers, who, on these accounts, were sorry that they had not undergone amputation at the shoulder.” (Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 3. p. 53, 400.) Mr. Guthrie also states, that when amputa- tion by the circular incision is attempted at the insertion of the pectoralis major, the bone will generally protrude after a few dressings. How- ever, he entirely dissents from Larrey, respect- ing the necessity of taking off the limb at the shoulder, and prefers doing it from half an inch to an inch and a half below the tuberosities ot the humerus, as the state of the injury may re- quire. Two incisions are to commence, one or two finger-breadths below the acromion ; and the inner one is to be extended directly across the under side of the limb, till it meets the lower point of the outer wound. Thus the under part of the arm is cut by a circular incision; the upper in the same manner as it sometimes is in removing the limb at the shoulder joint. W ith- out detaching the skin from the muscles, these are cut through ; the soft parts are held out oi the way of the saw ; the bone is sawn; the vessels secured; and the flaps brought together, so as