563 HEAD. animation; but it is very different, both in its laracter and consequences, from the preceding. “ In this, (which is one of the effects of in- ainmation of the meninges,) the febrile sym- toms are much higher, the pulse harder and iore frequent, the anxiety and restlessness ex- emely fatiguing, the pain in the head intense ; id as this kind of appearance is, in these cir- tmstances, most frequently the immediate pre- irsor of matter forming between the skull and ,ra mater, it is generally attended,with irregu- • shiverings, which are not followed by a criti- 1 sweat, nor afford any relief to the patient. 3 which it. may be added, that, in the former se, the erysipelas generally appears within the st three or four days; whereas in the latter, it Idom comes on till several days after the acci- nt, when the symptomatic fever is got to some l'ght. In the simple erysipelas, although the iund be crude and undigested, yet it has no her mark of mischief; the pericranium adheres mly to the skull, and upon the cessation of the /er, all appearances become immediately fa- urable. In that, which accompanies injury ne to the parts underneath, the wound not ly has a spongy, glassy, unhealthy aspect, but a pericranium in its neighbourhood separates antaneouslv from the bone, and quits all cohe- >n with it. In short, one is an accident, pro- 2ding from a bilious habit, and not indicating y mischief beyond itself; the other is a sym >m, or a part of a disease, which is occasioned injury done to the membranes of the brain; fcj e portends little or no ill to the patient, and nost always ends well; the other implies great zard, and most commonly ends fatally. It is before hardly necessary to say, that it behoves ery practitioner to be careful in distinguishing :m from each other. “ II the wound be a small one, and has passed ■ough the cellular membrane to the aponeu- ris, and pericranium, it is sometimes attended h very disagreeable, and even very alarming ■nptoms, but which arise from a ditlerent cause, d are very distinguishable from what has been mentioned. “ In this, the inflamed scalp does not rise o that degree of tumefaction, as in the ery- elas, neither does it pit, or retain the impres- n of the fingers of an examiner, it is of a ’p red colour, unmixt with the yellow tint of erysipelas; it appears tense, and is extremely nful to the touch ; as it is not an affection of ; cellular membrahe, and as the ears and the dids are not covered by the parts in which wound is inflicted, they are seldom, if ever, ;nprehended in the tumor, though they mav take of the general inflammation of the skin ; s generally attended with acute pain in the d, and such a degree of fever as prevents T* and sometimes brings on a delirium. ‘ A patient, in these circumstances, will admit re free evacuations by phlebotomy, than one ouring under an erysipelas ; the use of warm mentation is required in both, in order to keep ' skin clean and perspirable, but an emollient aplasm, which is generally forbid in the former, latter case be used to great advantage, hen the symptoms are not very pressing, r t e habit very inflammable, this method will n e sufficient; but it sometimes happens, that the scalp is so tense, the pain so great, and the symptomatic fever so high, that by waiting for the slow effect of such means, the patient runs a risk from the continuance of the fever, or else the injured aponeurosis and pericranium be- coming sloughy, produce an abscess, and render the case both tedious and troublesome. A divi- sion of the wounded part by a simple incision down to the bone, about half an inch or an inch in length, will most commonly remove all the bad symptoms, and if it be done in time, will render every thing else unnecessary.” (Pott ) With respect to the good effects of such an in- cision, Desault considers them greatly exagge- rated by authors ; and, while he admits, that, they are useful, when the inflammation extends under the aponeurosis, he is not inclined to sanc- tion it as a right proceeding in every other in- stance. (See CEuvres Chir. par Bichat, T. 2, p. 8.) Thus, Mr. Pott was of opinion, that the dif- ferences of the symptoms in the foregoing cases depended upon, whether the wound only affected the skin and cellular membrane, or reached more deeply to the aponeurosis and pericranium; a doc- trine which has been justly regardedvas question- able. With respect to the observation, that, in a puncture of the aponeurosis, the swelling is con- fined within the limits of this fascia, and does not extend to the ears and eyelids, it is a sentiment, which Desault thought arose rather from anatomi- cal considerations, than the observation of nature. The doctrine, indeed, must appear doubtful, when it is recollected : 1 st, That the aponeurosis and pericranium are parts of scarcely any sensibility. 2dly, That the opinion had its origin at a period, when these parts were imagined to be highly sensi- ble. 3dly, Thatin other parts of the body, a wound in which a fascia, or the periosteum is concerned, is rarely attended with the above described se- vere svmptoms. 4thly, That here, the wounds often affect only the skin and cellular membrane, and yet these symptoms occur, even with a phleg- monous character hthlv, On the contrary, in other instances, in which the aponeurosis and pericranium are undoubtedly' wounded, no bad symptoms at all take place 6‘thly, These sym- ptoms may almost always be removed by tne ex- hibition of tartarized antimony. (Oeuvres Chir. de DesanlU, T. 2, p. 8.) In the case, often named inflammation of the fascia after bleeding, it is not the fascia itself, which is the real and chief seat of the pain, inflammation, dtc., but the subjacent cellular membrane and muscles. The theory of Desault is, that the erysipelatous affec- tions of the scalp, so frequent after injuries of the head, are connected with disorder of the functions of the liver, produced by such ac- cidents. Yet, it is difficult to understand, why a mere puncture of the scalp should cause this disorder of the liver, more commonly titan the same kind of wound of any other superficial part of the body. The injuries, to which the scalp is liable from contusion, or appearances produced in it by such general cause, may be divided into those, in which the mischief is confined merely to the scalp; and those in which other parts are in- terested. The former, which only come under our pre- sent consideration, are not indeed of importance, V/ V J 2