387. DISLOCATION. DISLOCATIONS OF TIIE FIBULA. According to Mr. A. Cooper, luxations of the upper head of the fibula, from relaxation of the ligaments, are more frequent than those from violence. The head of the bone is thrown back- wards. The bone is easily replaced, but imme- diately slips behind the tibia again. When the case is attended with disease, repeated blisters are recommended; and, afterwards, a strap to con- fine the bone in its natural situation. [Surg. Essays, Part >2, p. 105.) In other instances, a | roller, a compress applied over the head of the i fibula, and a splint along this bone, would be I : proper. (Boi/er, Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 374.) ’1 he latter author has seen a displacement of the ; whole fibula upwards, accompanying a disloca- tion of the foot outwards. This case must be ex- | . ceedingly unfrequent, as it is resisted not only j : by the ligaments of the upper joint of the fibula, j : but also bv those very strong ligamentous bands, \ . which bind the malleolus externus to the astra- i g galus and os calcis. In all the cases, which I ; have seen, the pressure of the astragalus, when driven outwards, has broken the fibula. In the i instance mentioned by Boyer, the double luxa- l tion of the fibula was readily reduced, by rectify- j ing the position of the foot, and bringing the j astragalus into its proper place again with re- 1 aspect to the tibia. DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT. The tibia may be dislocated from the astraga- lus inwards, or outwards; forwards, or back- wards; and either of these luxations may be complete or incomplete. The dislocation in- ■ wards is the most common; the foot being thrown outwards, and its inner edge resting upon the ground, while the fibula is broken about two or three inches above the ankle. Upon dissec- tion, as Mr. A. Cooper observes, the end of the tibia is found resting upon the inner side of the astragalus, and, if the accident has been pro- duced by a jump from a considerable height, the ower end of the tibia, where it is connected to the fibula by ligament, is split off, and remains attached to the latter bone. The broken end of :he fibula itself is carried down upon the astra- »alus, occupying the natural situation of the tibia. The malleolus externus remains in its natural situation, with two inches of the fibula, and the liece of the tibia, which is split off. The cap- sular ligament, attached to the fibula, and the hree strong fibular tarsal ligaments, arc unin- ured. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 107.) One thing, very essential to be understood in his case, is, that the fracture of the fibula is here he first mischief, without which the dislocation ■ould not have happened. The fibula may easily >e fractured without any luxation of the foot, but he above-described dislocation can never take dace unpreceded by a fracture of the fibula ; and, 'rave and serious as the displacement of the joint s, it is always a secondary event. (Dupin/irev, innuaire Mai. Chir. 1819, />• 3.) It was to this particular case, joined with the racture of the fibula, that Mr. Pott drew the at- ention of surgeons, as affording a striking ex- imple of the benefit derived from relaxing the nuseles; the instance, in which, “ by leaping, or jumping, the fibula breaks within two or three inches of its lower extremity. When this hap- pens, the inferior fractured end of the fibula falls inward towards the tibia, that extremity of the bone which forms the outer ankle is turned somewhat outward and upward, and the tibia having lost its proper support, and not being of itself capable of steadily preserving its true per- pendicular bearing, is forced off from the astra- galus inwards ; by which means the weak bursal, or common ligament of the joint, is violently stretched, if not torn, and the strong ones, which fasten the tibia to the astragalus and os calcis, are always lacerated; thus producing, at the same time, a perfect fracture and a partial dislocation, to which is sometimes added a wound in the in- teguments, made by the bone at the inner ankle. By this means, and indeed as a necessary conse- quence, all the tendons which pass behind or under, or are attached to the extremities of the tibia and fibula, or os calcis, have their natural direction and disposition so altered, that, instead of performing their appointed actions, they all contribute to the distortion of the foot, and that by turning it outward and upward.” When this accident is accompanied, as it some- times is, with a wound of the integuments of the inner ankle, and that made by the protrusion of the bone, the danger and difficulties of the case are seriously increased. “ By the fracture of the fibula, the dilatation of the bursal ligament of the joint, and the rup- ture of those which should tie the end of the tibia firmly to the astragalus and os calcis, the perpen- dicular bearing of the tibia on the astragalus is lost, and the foot becomes distorted; by this dis- tortion the direction and action of all the muscles already recited are so altered, that it becomes (in the usual way of treating this case) a difficult matter to reduce the joint; and, the support of the fibula being gone, a more difficult one to keep it in its place after reduction. If it be attempted with compress and strict bandage, the conse- quence often is a very troublesome, as well as painful ulceration of the inner ankle, which very ulceration becomes itself a reason why such kind of pressure and bandage can be no longer con- tinued ; and if the bone be not kept in its place, the lameness and deformity are such as to be very fatiguing to the patient, and to oblige him to wear a shoe with an iron, or a laced buskin, or something of that sort, for a great while, or perhaps for life. “ All this trouble, pain, difficulty, and incon- venience, are occasioned by putting and keeping the limb in sucli position as necessarily puts the muscles into action, or into a state of resistance, which in this case is the same. This occasion^ the difficulty in reduction, and the difficulty in keeping it reduced; this distorts the foot, and by pulling it outward and upward makes that de- formity which always accompanies such accident; but if the position of the limb be changed, if by laying it on its' outside, with the knee moderately bent, the muscles forming the calf of the leg, and those which pass behind the fibula, and under the os calcis, are all put into a state of relaxation and non-resistance, all this difficulty and trouble do in general vanish immediately; the foot may easily be placed right, the joint reduced, and by maintaining the same disposition of the litnb, C C 2