M‘2 GUTTA SERENA. they frequently occasion determinations of Wood to the head and eyes, and quicken the cir- culation, whereby every remnant of vision may be abolished. Steel medicines do the greatest and quickest injury to amaurotic eyes, when combined with narcotics. Above all things, it is generally prudent, in cases of amaurosis, eare- fully to abstain from all the stronger and long- operating nervous medicines, whenever plethora, determinations of blood, and tendency to inflam- mation, exist. (Lthre von den Augetilir. B. 2, y>. 467.) In this country, I do not believe that antinervous and antispasmodic medicines have obtained credit for their efficacy in this disease. Thus, Mr. Travers states, that he has never known any real benefit derived from camphor, assafcetida, valerian, &c. though he has seen much good derived from tonics, the mineral acids, bark, steel, and arsenic, after a due regu- lation of the digestive functions. (Synopsis, <5fc. p. 804.) In arnica montana, aconite, euphrasia, and stimulants in general, he has no confidence. Local, or external, medicines, for amaurosis, are divided by Beer into two classes, namely, into those which are applied to parts more or less distant from the eyes, and having some sympa- thetic connexion with these organs; and into others, which are usually put upon the eye itself. In the first class bleeding has obtained high repute, either by venesection in the common way, the application of leeches to the pudenda, the arms, behind the ears, or upon the temple; cupping the back, or by opening the temporal artery or jugular vein. Bleeding is indicated when manifest plethora, a determination of blood to the head and eyes, or an accelerated circu- lation, is combined with a considerable decrease of vision ; when the menses are nearly or quite suppressed in plethoric subjects; a manifest de- termination of blood to the parts of generation prevails; or the same thing occurs in hemor- rhoidal patients. (Beer, Lehre, <%c. p. 469.) According to Mr. Travers, all the cases of direct debility, and proper paralysis of the optic nerve, are aggravated by loss of blood. (Synop- sis. Ac. p. 303.) Professor Beer gives his testimony, also, in favour of the efficacy of such applications as produce a counter-irritation, not merely as rube- facients, but as means occasioning an evacuation of lytnph; such are blisters, sinapisms, laid on the back or calves of the legs, vesication by means of the bark of mezereon, issues, and se- tons. These means are proper when the blind- ness is attended with continual, but wandering, pains in the aponeurotic covering of the head, or in the vicinity of the eye, with a whizzing noise and irritating pain in the ear, or with the sup- pression of a purulent discharge from the meatus auditorius. In such cases, however, there must be no particular plethora, still less any deter- mination of blood to the head and eyes. Here should also be mentioned friction with antimonial ointment, which is especially indicated where there is reason to believe, that the amaurosis has been preceded, and partly produced, by a long interruption of the cutaneous secretion. Formerly, according to Beer, clysters were too commonly employed in cases of amaurosis; for, whenever the cause of the disease was not understood, it was usual to refer it to a morbid state of the abdominal viscera. At present, clysters in amaurotic cases are employed quite" empirically, as stimulants to the intestinal canal, and evacuants, when the loaded state of the bowels and obstinate constipation require them, and when the scantiness and difficulty of the evacuations keep up a constant determination of blood to the head and eyes, and when, perhaps- for other reasons, common purgative medicines cannot be employed. Beer says, that aperient clysters are attended with the most decided good effects in that amaurotic weakness of sight, which sometimes occurs towards the end of preg- nancy, and is combined with obstinate consti- pation, continual head-ache, evident determina- tion of blood to the head and eyes, and such an inflammatory diathesis as cannot be mistaken. On the other hand, the employment of clysters as anodyne remedies, not as evacuants, is prin- cipally useful in hypochondriacal and hysterical amaurotic patients, when they are troubled with much general cramp, and spasms in the ab- domen. (Vol. cit. p. 470.) According to the statements of the same writer, baths, whether warm or cold, adapted for the whole body, or in the form of a slip- per-bath, a pediluvium, or effusion, have hitherto not proved very efficacious empirical remedies for amaurosis, and this, whether they consist of simple water, or aromatic decoctions, or of waters impregnated with sulphur or iron. The reason why baths in general are less frequently- employed as empirical remedies in cases of amaurosis, and why they are still more rarely successful, may be, because in the very cases of amaurosis, in which baths of various kinds are clearly" indicated, the greatest attention must be paid to the patient’s constitution, to the state of the skin especially, and to the temperature of the fluid employed ; for, in a healthy subject, too warm a bath may, under certain circumstances, (as for instance when there is plethora) of it- self occasion a serious amaurotic amblyopia; and therefore, under similar circumstances, must be likely to increase any present' amaurotic weakness of sight into complete blindness. In general warn whole, or slipper, baths must be employed as empirical remedies in amaurosis only when the regular action of the skin is disturbed, without febrile symptoms, when the affection of the eyes has been preceded by the sudden stoppage of a profuse perspiration ; or some cutaneous efflorescence is coexistent with the amaurosis. On the contrary, pediluvia with salt, mustard, &c. are chiefly proper when amaurosis is accompanied with a determination of blood to the head and eyes, or any local inflam- mations, after which the eyesight is always found to be worse. In cases of amaurosis affu- sion can be seldom used empirically", and only under those circumstances where modern expe- rience has proved the shower bath to be allow- able. Cold bathing generally agrees badly with an amaurotic patient, and when his skin is ex- tremely sensible, when wandering pains are felt between the integuments, and muscles, or there is a tendency to erysipelatous inflammation, the power of vision evidently declines after every trial of the plan. But, according to Beer, mi- neral waters, impregnated with iron, in the form either of a bath for one half, or for the whole, of