BLEEDING. 221 resembled a turkey’s egg in shape and size. (See Hamer’s Casesin Surgery, edit. 4, ?>. 303.) Perhaps, in this example, tying the tumor was preferable to cutting it away, even though its base was large; for, had the knife been used, there would have been some danger of the blad- der becoming tilled with blood. Bladder, Hernia of. See Hernia. Bladder, Insects discharged from. The in- stances, in which worms are stated to have been discharged from the bladder, are very' numerous. Many cases of this kind are referred to in Voig- tel’s Handbuch der pathologischen Anatomie, b. 3, p. 337—342. A few years ago, an inter- esting example was recorded bv Mr. Lawrence. (See Med. Chir. Trhns. 1.2, p. 382, et c.) Bladder, Deficiency of. Numerous examples, in which this deviation from the natural structure has occurred, are recorded by' medical writers. The publications, however, which, as far as I know, contain the most ample information on the subject, are, a Gottingen inaugural disserta- tion, entitled, “Be Vesica: Urinurice Prolapsu Native,1' by Dr. Ptoose, late professor in Bruns- wick, and a paper, called “ An attempt toivards u systematic account of the appearances, connected with that malconformation of the Urinary Organs, in which, the ureters, instead of terminating in a perfect bladder, open externully on the surf ace of the Abdomen,1’ by A. Duncan, jun.in Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, Pol. 1. In this last produc- tion, may be seen references to all the most noted cases on record, both male and female. (See also Handbuch der Pathologischen Anatomie von J. F. Meckel, I B. p. 650, geo. Leip. 1812. Bladder, Wounds rf. See Gunshot Wounds. Many cases of rupture of the bladder from blows or falls are recorded, followed by fatal extrava- sation of urine in the abdomen. Two such in- stances have been recently detailed by Dr. Cusack. (See Dub. Hospital Reports, Vbl. 2, p. 312, Sfe. 8vo, 1818.) BLEEDING. By this operation is under- stood the taking away of blood for the relief of diseases. Bleeding is calledgewn/, when prac- tised with a view of lessening the whole mass of circulating blood; topical, when performed in the vicinity' of the disease, for the express purpose of lessening the quantity of blood in a particular part. General Blood letting is performed with a lan- cet, and is subdivided into two kinds; viz. the opening of a vein, termed phlebotomy, or vene- section ; and the opening of the temporal artery, or one of its branches, termed ortcriotomy. ’'■•picul Blood-letting is performed, either by means of a cupping-glass and scarificator, or leeches, or by dividing the visibly distended ves- sels with a lancet, as is frequently done in cases of ophthalmy. PHLEBOTOMY, OR VENESECTION. The mode of bleeding, most frequently prac- tised, is that of opening a vein ; and it may be done in the arm, ankle, jugular vein, frontal vein, veins under the tongue, on the back of the land, &c. In whatever part, however, venesec- t">i. is performed, it is aiwayfs necessary’ to com- press the vein, between the place where the puncture is made, and the heart. Thus the re- turn of blood through the vein is stopped, the vessel swells, becomes conspicuous, and, when opened, bleeds much more freely, than would otherwise happen. Hence, according to the si- tuation of the part of the body where the vein is to be opened, with regard to the heart, the band- age, or other means, for making the necessary pressure, must be applied, either above or below the puncture. All the apparatus essential for blood-letting, on the part of the patient, is a bandage, or fillet, two or more small pieces of folded linen for compresses, a basin to receive the blood, and a little clean water and a towel. The bandage ought to be about a yard in length, and near two inches broad, a common riband or garter being frequently employed. The compresses are made by doubling a bit of linen rag, about two inches square. On the part of the surgeon, it is necessary to have a good lancet, of proper shape. He should never bleed with lancets, with which he has been in the habit of opening any’ kind of abscesses, as very' troublesome complaints have been the consequence of doing so. The shape of the instrument is also a matter of some import- ance. If its shoulders are too broad, it will not readily enter the vein, and when it does enter, it invariably makes a large opening, which is not always desirable. If the lancet be too spear- pointed, an incautious operator would often run a risk of transfixing the vein, and wounding the artery beneath it. More, however, certainly de- pends on the mode of introducing the lancet, than on its shape. In blood-letting, the patient may' lie down, sit down, or stand up, each of which positions may be chosen according to circumstances. If the patient be apt to faint from the loss of a small quantity of blood, and such fainting can answer no surgical purpose, it is best to bleed him in a recumbent posture. But, when the person is strong and vigorous, there is little occasion for this precaution, and a sitting posture is to be preferred, as the most convenient, both for the surgeon and patient. This, indeed, is the com- mon position. In some cases, however, par- ticularly those of strangulated hernia, it is fre- quently an object to produce fainting, in order that the bowels may be more easily reduced. In this circumstance the patient may be bled in an erect posture, and the wound made large, as a sudden evacuation of blood is particularly apt to- bring on the wished-for swoon. For the same reason, if we wish to avoid making the patient faint, we should then make only a small punc- ture. Every operator should be able to use the lancet with either hand, which will enable him to bleed' the patient in the right or left arm, as circum- stances may render most eligible. At the bend of the arm, there are several veins in which a ‘puncture, may be made ; viz- the basilic, cephalic, median basilic, and median ce- phalic. The median- basilic vein, being usually the largest and most conspicuous, is that in which tlie operation is mostly performed; but surgeons should never forget, that it is under this vessel that the brachial artery’ runs, with the mere intervention of the aponeurosis sent oil from the tendon of the biceps muscle. In very’ thin persons, indeed, the median basilic vein lies