206 ARSENIC. ening the chance of the constitution being infect- ed by absorption. In general, surgeons combine with the plan the moderate use of mercury. I he important use of the argentum nitratum, in the cure of numerous diseases, we shall have occasion to remark in various places of this work; particularly when we come to the article Cm'nen, ulcers of; Iris, prolapsus of; Ulcers ; Urethra, strictures of, §c. The argentum nitratum is often used in the form of a solution, in the proportion of a dram of the caustic to an ounce of distilled water. In general this application ought to be at first more or less diluted with distilled water. Cancerous ulcers, and sores about the nose and neighbour- ing parts of the face, being examples of lupus, or noli vie tangere, are often considerably benefited by the argentum nitratum, both in the solid and fluid state. The solution agrees also very well with certain sores, which occur round the roots of the nails of the fingers and toes. The lotion is sometimes applied with a camel-hair pencil; but in general, by dipping little soft bits of lint in the fluid, laying them on the part, and cover- ing them with a pledget. ARNICA. Leopardshane. Amaurosis is the principal surgical case, in which this medicine is now ever employed. Its repute in the cure of that disease also chiefly prevails abroad; for, I believe, in this country, surgeons have no confi- dence in it, as a remedy for amaurotic disorders. ARSENIC is the chief ingredient in a se- cret remedy, which has long possessed very great celebrity in Ireland for the cure of cancer, and is now well known amongst surgeons, by the name of Plunket’s caustic. This application con- sists of the ranunculus aeris, the greater crow- foot, the flammula vulgaris, and the lesser crow- foot, in the proportion of an ounce of each, bruised and mixed with a drachm of the white oxide of arsenic, and five scruples of sulphur. The whole is to be beaten into a paste, formed into balls, and dried in the sun. When required for use, these balls are beaten up with yolk of egg, and spread upon a piece of pig’s bladder. The use of the ranunculus is to destroy the cuti- cle, upon which the arsenic would have no effect; for it is to be observed, that Plunket’s caustic was employed for the dispersion of tumours, as well as for the relief of ulcerated cancers. The application is to remain on the part twenty four hours, at the end of which time, the slough is to be dressed with any simple, unirritating ointment. When arsenic was first recommended as an ap- plication for cancers, it used generally to be blended with opium. When Plunket’s caustic is employed, so as to form an eschar over a scir- lious tumor, I conjecture, that if it ever do good, it is not by any specific effect of this arsenical application, but simply as a slough, or issue, formed near the disease in any other manner. It is highly probable, also, that the swellings, which have been thus dispersed, have never been com- plicated with the structure characteristic of true scirrhi. With respect to cancerous ulcers, Plun- ket’s caustic sometimes evidently produces a de- gree of amendment, which, however, rarely lasts for any considerable time ; but, there are many inveterate ulcerations, and anomalous sores, which derive permanent benefit from the appli- cation, and are even completely cured by it. Some examples of lupus, ulcerations about the roots of the nails, and reputed carcinomatous sores of the lips, are of this description. At Paris, an arsenical paste is often used by Dubois, and other surgeons of that capital, for cancerous sores of the penis, and other malignant ulcers. It is composed of 70 parts of cinnabar, 22 of sanguis draconis, and 8 of the white oxide of arsenic, formed into paste with saliva at the time when it is to be employed. “ The pain and inflammation, that succeed the use of it (says Mr. Cross,) cannot be equalled by the severest operation with the knife.” (Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, p. 45, 8so. 1815.) Even death may be occasioned by the absorption of the poison, as appears from the two annexed facts, the first of which is recorded by M. Ronx, in his Medecine Operatoire. “ The day after the paste was applied, the patient complained of colic and severe vomiting, and in two days perished in convulsions, et les plus vires ungoisses. The body went quickly into putrefaction.0 The internal coat of the stomach and a great part of the intestinal canal, were inflamed, and marked here and there with dark spots. Just before I visited Paris, (adds Mr. Cross,) I dissected in London a woman, who died under similar cir- cumstances, and where the same morbid appear- ances were presented, &c.” (Op. cit.) Mr. Justamond’s applications to cancer, origin- ally suggested by a receipt, said to ber preserved in the Earl of Arundel’s family, were somewhat varied. They were generally combinations of arsenic and sulphur. The above receipt directs an ounce of yellow arsenic, with half that quan- tity of armenian bole, and sometimes as much red precipitate. Mr. Justamond also employed a sulphuret of arsenic, and a combination of this sulphuret with crude antimony. The arsenical preparation, selected for use, was scraped, and laid on the middle of the sore, the edges of which were moistened with a combination of the muriate of iron and muriate of ammonia. In some in- stances, we learn, that the effects of the treat- ment were the correction of the fetid smell, melioration of the appearance of the sore, and separation of the cancerous part. In the Pharmacopoeia Chirurgica, Mr. Justa- mond’s arsenical caustic is directed to be made in the following manner. Antimonii pul- verizati Jj. Arsenici pulverizati ^ij. These are to be melted together in a crucible. The appli- cation may be reduced to any degree of mildness by blending with this pulverized caustic a quan- tity of opium in the form of powder, which was also supposed to act specifically in diminishing pain. The powder of white oxide of arsenic, un- mixed with other substances, has sometimes been sprinkled upon cancerous and other inveterate ulcers; but, the practice is now abandoned by every judicious surgeon, on account of the violent pain resulting from it, and the not un- frequent fatal consequences of its absorption. Could I suppose a man, so rash and ignorant ns to revive this murderous practice, yet existed in the profession, 1 should feci disposer! to^lengthcn these remarks; but I am persuaded, that, in this country, at least, more judgment and know- ledge every where prevail. The white oxide of arsenic, however, may he applied with more pm-