lachrymal organs. 747 f I onjunctiva, towards the temple; an annoying ensation of cold, and heaviness in the eye .ml orbit. Now, under febrile symptoms, ri- ;ors, &c. a yellowish point presents itself, either >n the reddened portion of the conjunctiva, or m the outside of the eyelid, and a fluctuation ecomes distinguishable. (Beer, Lehre, dye. ?. 1, p. S50.) Beer speaks of abscesses some- :mes forming in the vicinity of the lachrymal .land, and terminating in a small sinus, which •omrnunicates with one of the principal excretory ubes, and discharges occasionally a thin limpid || luid. (Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 184.) The experience of this author leads him to con- sider these sinuses either as a consequence of an mskilfully treated abscess of the upper eyelid, or of a similar neglected affection of the cellular uembrane, near the lachrymal gland ; or, lastly, bf the presence of a portion of the sac of a burst meysted tumor. According to Mr. Travers, .he lachrymal gland often suppurates in children, md occasions an excessive swelling above the upper eyelid, depressing the tarsus so as com- jletely to conceal the eye. The abscess, he says, may be conveniently opened, and dis- charged beneath the eyelid. (Synopsis of the Discuses of the Eye, p. 228.) With respect to the treatment of an)’ local inflammation in and about the lachrymal gland, the best means of re- .ief would be leeches, fomentations, emollient poultices, and other common antiphlogistic reme- dies. In the suppurative stage, Beer recommends mixing with the poultice a good deal of hemlock. The lachrymal gland is subject to scirrhous enlargement, and, in cases of carcinoma of the eye, it is one of the parts, in which a return of the disease is apt to occur. Hence, it is now generally considered right to remove it, as soon as the eyeball has been taken away. (See Eye.) ' Sometimes the gland is primarily affected, and Guerin removed one in the state of scirrhus, and so much enlarged, that the eye was entirely covered by it. This operation was performed with such dexterity, that the external straight muscle was not at all injured. Mr. Travers has also removed a scirrhous and enlarged lachrymal gland. The vision of the eye had suffered con- siderably, during the growth of the tumor. The only deformity, after the operation, was a slight prolapsus of the eyelid. This gentleman re- commends operations of this kind to be always done, if possible, beneath the eyelid. (Synop- sis, p. 228.) The caruncula lachrymalis is liable to chronic induration and enlargement, constituting the disease already spoken of in a foregoing part of this work, under the name of Encanthis, of which tfiere is also a scirrhous, carcinomatous, or malignant form, quickly extending its effects to the eyeball, and the adjacent thin bones of the orbit. (Beer, Lehre von den Augcnlcr. B. 2, p. 188.) From these subjects, I proceed to consider the diseases of the excreting parts of the laehry real orgaqs ; eases which, though of the most various natures, were formerly all confounded together under the title of fistula lachrymalis, and it is only within the last few years, that these complaints have been subjected to the same principles and distinctions, which arc conceived to be highly useful in other branches of surgery. As Mr. M'Kenzie has judiciously remarked, the consequence of not distinguishing the dif- ferent diseases of tire excreting parts of the lachrymal organs from each other, has been an attempt to discover some single successful me- thod of curing them all. “Now, there is no one method of treatment, by which this can be accomplished ; and hence it is, that the several remedies, which have been proposed, being emi- nently successful in one or other of these dis- eases, but not adapted to all the rest, have at different times been held in such various degrees of estimation.” (On Diseases of the Lachry- mal Organs, p. 10, 8vo. Load. 1819.) And an intelligent critic observes, that in lachrymal diseases, obstruction of the nasal duct appears to be almost the only circumstance against which the treatment, recommended by the surgeons of France and England, has been directed. “ On sait qu’au retrecissement oil a l’obliteration du canal nasal produit:; par une cause quelconque, est due, dans presque tous les cas, la maladie qui nous oceupe ; soit que, restees intactes, les pa- rois du sac presentent une tumeur lachrymale, d’ou les larmes relluent continuellement sur les joues, a travers les points lachrymaux: soit qu’en partie detruites et ulcerees, ces parois presentent une fistule, qui ofire aux larmes un passage contre nature, sans cesse entre- tenue par elles ; en sorte que ces deux etats, la tumeur et la fistule, sont presque toujours des degres diKerens d’une meme affection, et que le traitement qui convient ii l’une repose sur les memes bases que celui indique dans l’autre.” ((Euvrcs Chir. de Desault, T. 2, p. 120.) It is evident from the writings of Pott and Ware, that even these authors considered the obstruction cf the nasal duet, as the foundation of all the train of varied symptoms, presented by the ex- creting lachrymal organs. “ An obstruction in the nasal duct is most frequently the primary and original cause of the complaint.’’ “ The seat of this disease is the same in almost every subject,” says Mr. Pott (Ohs. on the Fistula Lachrymalis); and Mr. Ware, in his observa- tions on the same disease, sets out with the same assumption. Now, obstruction of the nasal duct is an occasional consequence merely of inflamma- tion of the excreting lachrymal organs ; in most of their diseases, obstruction of the nasal duct has no part; and one might, with as much pro- priety, treat all the affections of the bladder and urethra, by the dilatation of the latter part, as treat all the diseases of the excreting lachrymal organs, by dilating the nasal duct. Theftilse assumption in question has led to most erroneous treatment. For instance, in blennorrhoea of the sac, and in hernia of the sac, though in both these diseases, the nasal duct is patent, the common treatment in this country is to open the sac by the knife, and thrust down a style, or some other instrument, into the nose; thus de- stroying the organization of the parts which are affected merely with a gleety secretion in the one case, and with extreme relaxation in the other. Suppose (says the same critical writer) that some charlatan should make oath at the Man- sion-house, that he had cured fifty, or a hundred, cases of gonorrhoea by opening the urethra in the perinseum, and passing a bougie through that tube, from behind forwards, who would ajv-