HERNIA. 605 SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT OF A STRANGU- LATED OR AN INCARCERATED, HERNIA.—• MEANS TO BE TRIED, BEFORE AN OPERATION. « Difficulty of reduction (says Pott) may be owing to several causes. The size of the piece of omentum, or the inflamed state of it; the quantity of intestine and mesentery, an inflam- mation of the gut, or its distention by feces, or wind: or the smallness of the aperture of the tendon, through which the hernia passes. Eut, to whatever cause it be owing, if the prolapsed body cannot be immediately replaced, and the patient suffers pain, or is prevented thereby from going to stool, it is called an incarcerated, hernia, a strangulated hernia, or a hernia with stricture. “ The symptoms are a swelling in the groin, or scrotum, resisting the impression of the fin- gers : if the hernia be of the intestinal kind, it is generally painful to the touch, and the pain is increased by coughing, sneezing, or standing upright. These are the very first symptoms, and, if they are not relieved, are soon followed by others, viz. a sickness at the stomach, a fre- quent retching, or inclination to vomit, a stop- page of all discharge per anum, attended with a frequent, hard pulse, and some degree of fever.” A patient, thus circumstanced, is in some danger, and demands immediate assistance. A stricture made on the prolapsed part of the gut, by the aperture, through which it passes, is the immediate cause of all the bad symptoms, and of course, the removal of such stricture is the only thing which can bring relief. This object can only be accomplished by returning the bowel back into the abdomen, or dividing the parts, which form the stricture. The former plan is always the most desirable, when practicable. We next proceed to notice the various mea- sures to be adopted for the relief of a strangu- lated hernia, so as to obtain the best chance of doing away the necessity of an operation. After treating of the merits of each plan, a few remarks will be offered on the order, in which the means should be put in practice. Taxis.—This is the term applied to the ope- ration of reducing a hernia with the hand. It is much promoted by the position of the body; which Winslow thought should be placed on an inclined plane, and the thighs bent towards the trunk. Mr. A. Cooper advises the same prac- tice, observing, that this posture, by relaxing the fascia of the thigh, relaxes also the aperture, through which the hernia passes. Every degree of tension, and relaxation of the femoral fascia must undoubtedly be attended with a correspond- ing change in the abdominal ring. But flexion of the.thigh, besides relaxing this fascia, also re- laxes the abdominal, internal iliac, and psoas muscles. In cases of inguinal hernia, the press- ure, made on the tumor by the hands of the surgeon, should always be directed upwards and outwards, along the course of the spermatic cord, and Mr. A. Cooper advises it to be con- tinued from a quarter to half an hour. (On In- guinal and Congenital Hernia.) As the femoral hernia passes downwards, and then forwards, the pressure must be directed first backwards, and then upwards. No violence should ever bo used ; for, besides being unavail- ing, it greatly aggravates the inflamed state of the contents of the hernial sac, and has been known even to burst the intestine. (See Cooper on Inguinal Hernia, See. p. 23.) Besides bending the thigh, care should also be taken to rotate it inwards, which will have great effect in reHxing the femoral fascia, and tendon of the external oblique muscle. Suspension of the pafient over the shoulders of an assistant has been thought to facilitate reduction: “I have tried it often, (says Mr. Hey;) but have not found it to be of such superior efficacy, as some authors have represented.” (P. 144.) The return of a piece of intestine is generally preceded by a peculiar noise, caused by the pas- sage of air through the stricture, it recedes at first gradually, and then slips up suddenly. The omentum goes up slowly to the very last portion, which must be actually pushed through the opening. If the taxis should not succeed at first, it will often do so after the warm bath, bleeding, or cold applications. Small herniae, being attended with the closest stricture, are the most difficult to reduce, and, for the same rea- son, crural ruptures do not so often yield to the taxis, as inguinal herniae in the male subject. The taxis becomes less likely to succeed, the longer the inflamed viscera have been down, be- cause adhesions are liable to form. Mr. Law- rence observes, (p. 63.) “ When the rupture becomes painful, we are no longer justified in persevering in attempts at reduction by the hand. A sufficient pressure cannot now be en- dured ; and the force which is employed only tends to increase the inflammation, and accele- rate the approach of gangrene. At this period, the operation is required, and should be per- formed without delay.” Desault even pro- scribed the taxis altogether in the inflammatory strangulation, until the previous use of other means had produced a change in the state of the swelling. That the taxis is frequently abused, and the cause of serious mischief, is a truth, which can- not be doubted. “ Strangulated hernite, (says Scarpa) very frequently mortify from the negli- gence of the patients, and their repugnance to submit to an operation, and, perhaps, still more frequently from the effect of the taxis, unskilfully exercised by uninformed surgeons, who are de- termined, at any price whatsoever, to accomplish,, the speedy reduction of the viscera. The ma- jority of them make no distinction between the acute and the chronic strangulation. In both cases, no sooner are the symptoms of strangulation evinced, than they begin to handle the swelling roughly, and to push the viscera with all their force, in order to make them return into the ab- domen ; whilst, when the strangulation is acute, and the patient young and strong, the taxis ought never to be practised, before all the means proper for diminishing the strength, calming spasm, and relaxing the parts, which are to be reduced, have been employed for a certain lime. These mgans, we know, are bleedings, iomenta- tions, emollient glysters, and, especially, the warm hath, which, next to bleeding, holds the first rank. At this school of surgery, I have frequently had opportunities of observing the sa- lutary efiect of this treatment. My pupils have, more than once, seen herniae, which had been painfully handled without any good, reduced, as