MORTIFICATION. vol immediately lose its sensibility , for the pain, on the contrary, is often very much aggravated by the approach of this state. The blood also still continues to circulate, at least, in the larger vessels of the part, but, perhaps, with less force ; and from the resistance which it meets with in passing through the capillaries, in less quantity, than formerly. The serous effusion into the cellular membrane continuing to increase, and the action of the absorbent and sanguiferous ves- sels to diminish, the part becomes at length in- capable of being restored to its former office in the animal economy. It is, therefore, in its earlier stages only, that gangrene is to be con- sidered as an affection admitting of cure; for there are limits, beyond which, if it pass, re- cover)’ becomes impossible. These limits it may not, in every instance, be easy to define; but they form the boundaries between incipient gan- grene and the ultimate termination of .that state in sphacelus.” (Thomson, op. cit. p. 507.) The causes which produce mortification by impeding the return of blood from the part affected, for the most part operate by making pressure on the trunk, or principal branches, of a vein. In these instances, there is al- ways an accumulation of blood in the part which first swells, becomes of a livid colour, tense, and very painful. Soon afterwards, blis- ters arise, and the part becomes soft, oedematous, cold, insensible, emphysematous, black, and fetid. Such are the circumstances, which hap- pen in strangulated hernia, in tied polypi, and in a limb, in which the veins have been so com- pressed by any hard swelling, such as the head of a dislocated bone, as to excite mortification. Other causes operate by preventing the en- trance of arterial blood. The application of a ligature to an artery, as practised in several sur- gical cases, and all external pressure, that closes the artery, or arteries, on which a part entirely depends for its supply of blood, have this effect. Mortification does not, however, always take place, when the trunk of an artery is rendered impervious, because nature furnishes the neces- sary supply of blood, through collateral ramifi- cations. But, when the disorder does happen, the part commonly first becomes pale, flaccid, and cold, and soon afterwards shrinks, loses its sensibility, grows black, and perishes. It is usually represented by writers, that mor- tification may proceed from a mere lessening of the communication of blood and nervous energy to a part. However, it is to be observed, that parts,, deprived of all connexion with the senso- rium, by the division, or paralytic state, of their nerves, do not frequently perish on this account. But, as their functions are carried on with less vigour, and their vitality is weakened, the same causes, which sometimes produce mortification in parts differently circumstanced, must much more readily occasion it in them. Among the causes of the present species of mortification, may be mentioned great universal debility; extreme old age; a thickening and ossification of the coat* of the arteries, and a consequent dimi- nution of their capacity, and of their muscular and elastic power. Cowper, the anatomist, was one of the earliest writers, who took notice of this ossification of the 815 arteries of the leg, in persons who had died of mor- tification of the feet and toes. (See Phil. Trans. Vol. 2d,p. 1195, and Veil. 'M, p. i 970.) A simi- lar case was remarked by Mr. Bucket, of which he has given an account in his Chirurgical Observa- tions. The occurrence was also mentioned by Naish. (See Philosoph. Trans. Vol. 31, p- 22b'.) Dr. J. Thomson has seen one example of a very complete ossification of the arteries of the leg, accompanying a mortification of the feet and toes. {On Inflammation, p. 537*) Speak- ing of the same subject, Mr. Hodgson remarks : “ Experience has proved this condition of the arteries to be at least a constant attendant upon one species of gangrene, to which the extremi- ties of old subjects are liable; and I have found the three principal arteries of the leg nearly ob- literated by calcareous matter in two fatal cases of this disease. But our knowledge of the power of collateral circulation, in every part of the bodv, will not allow us to admit the obliteration of the trunks as a sufficient cause of mortifi- cation, from a deficient supply of blood. It is therefore necessary for us to remember, that the same disease may probably exist in the collateral branches, upon which it has produced similar effects. But if an extent of vessel be converted into a calcareous cylinder, it loses its elasticity and organic powers, so as to be unable to afford any assistance to the propulsion of the blood; and the existence of parts, supplied by vessels in this state, constitutes a strong argument against the agency of the arteries in the circulation of the blood. The above observations, on the cause of this species of gangrene, at once expose its in- curable nature; and this state of the blood ves- sels renders the danger of amputation very con- siderable, unless fortunately the disease in the arteries does not extend to the part, at which the ligature is applied.” (See Ilodgson s Treatise on the Discuses of the Arteries and Veins, p. 41.) However, although the ossified state of an artery must certainly be unfavourable to its healing, it does not constantly prevent this desirable event. (See Case in Mcdico-Chir. Trans. Vol. (7, p. 193.) The preceding facts are particularly entitled to attention, because, as we shall presently find, the opinion that the mortification of the toes and feet arose from an ossification of the arteries was considered by Mr, Pott as destitute of foundation. It is probable, however, that sometimes other causes are concerned. Fabricius Hildanus men- tions a fatal case of mortification of the feet and legs, where the patient was in the vigor of life, and apparently of good constitution. After death, a scirrhous tumor was found surrounding and compressing the inferior vena cava, and aorta, near their bifurcation, so as to prevent the free circulation of the blood in the lower ex- tremities. Mortification of the extremities also sometimes occurs from deficient circulation, in the progress .of diseases of the heart. The mortification, arising from long continu- ance in the same posture, is chiefly attributable to the unremitted pressure which parts sustain, and which obstructs the circulation. Surgeons have frequent occasion to see melancholy exam- ples of this kind of mortification, particularly in