NITRIC AND NITROUS ACIDS. 853 I®. where the patient’s strength had been much re- duced • and he confesses, that venereal buboes, indurated glands, nocturnal pains in the bones, md gonorrhoea, yielded to these remedies. Seven years after the appearance of Mr. Blair’s work, Mr. Pearson delivered his senti- nents in a book of considerable merit. (Ob- emotions on the Effects of various Articles of he Materia Mediea in the Cure of Lucs Ve- icrca, '2d. Ed- Loiul. 1807, p. 198, <Jc.) He elates a very few examples, in which the nitrous icid appeared effectual in curing chancres, and me of its virtues in gonorrhoea; the only one, *hich this gentleman had ever seen. The rest •f his observations are unfavourable to the cha- acter of the medicine, as an antisyphilitic merit- ag confidence. The first trials, which Mr. Pear- on made, were of the nitric acid ; but, as he did ;ot remark any of its effects to be different rom those produced by the nitrous acid, he com aonly employed the latter in the following form. Citrous acid, two drams, pure water, a pint and . half, syrup four ounces. This mixture was lsuallv taken in the space of twenty-four hours, ks local applications, he employed a saturnine lo- ion to the sores; and emollient poultices to tu- nors and inflamed parts. All mercurial applica- ions were absolutely prohibited. (P.200.) In naking his inferences, in a subsequent page, he ays, “ The nitric and nitrous acids have re- noved both primary and secondary symptoms of yphilis; and, in some instances, it seems that he former have not recurred, nor have secon- arv symptoms appeared at the period they •ommonly shew themselves, when the cure has een imperfect. But, as far as my own expe- lence extends, and that of many respectable riends, who are connected with large hospitals, permanent cure has never been accomplished y these acids, where secondary symptoms have een present. The same acids, when exhibited rith the utmost care and attention to many pa- ients, labouring under the primary symptoms of he venereal disease, and where they have agreed erfectly well with the stomach, have been ’.evertheless found inadequate to the cure of hose symptoms. Indeed, the failures, which ave occurred, both in my own practice, and hat of many of my surgical friends, have been o numerous, that I do not think it eligible to ely on the nitrous acid, in the treatment of any ne form of the lues venerea.” However, Mr. ’earson joins several other writers in bearing fitness to the good effects of this medicine, here impairment of the constitution renders the mployment of mercury inconvenient, or im- roper. Here, he says, it will restrain the pro- • ress of the disease, and improve the health and :rength. On some occasions, he thinks, that it my be given, in conjunction with a course of sercurial inunction, and he agrees witli other ractitioners about its supporting the tone of the tomaeh, acting as a diuretic, and counteracting ae effects of mercury on the mouth and fauces. P.236—238.) While these inquiries were going on in Eng- md, numerous experiments on the same subject • ere undertaken in France. In a work, published n 1797, Alyon positively declares, that mercury mght to be entirely relinquished in the cure of he venereal disease. (Essai stir les Propriclcs Medecinalcs de I'Oxygiinc, ct sur Vapplication de ce principe dans les maladies veneriennes, psoriques, .ct dartre uses; Parisian. 5, 3 do.) Here we find a relation of many cases, success- fully treated in the hospitals of Val-de-Grace and St Dennis, by the oxygenated muriate of potash, the nitric, oxymuriatic, and citric acids, an ointment of the author’s own invention, called the unguentum oxygenatum, being ap- plied to the sores (See Unguentum.) In a second edition of the above book, which came out in 1799, the same doctrine and practice are corroborated by further observations. In 1798, Dr. Swediaur brought out the third edition of his treatise on the venereal disease, ( Traite Complet sur les Symptornes, les Effets, la Nature, et le Traitement des Maladies Syphi- litiqucs,) in which he highly commended the virtues of the nitrous acid, and oxygenated acid, as expediting the cure, with very few exceptions. But, in the fourth edition, he retracts, and de- tails the results of the new practice, as tried upon twenty-six venereal patients in the Hospice d'Humanite: of these only seven cases re- mained permanently cured; the issue of seven others was doubtful; and, in twelve, no amend- ment was observed. Nor were the statements of Lagneau much more favourable to the reputation of the nitrous acid as an antisyphilitic; for, from the trials which he had seen made of it, he concluded, that it was not unf'requently ineffectual, while it was apt to excite an obstinate cough and hoemo- ptysis. (Expose des Symptornes de la Maladie Venerienne, des diverses Methodes de traite- ment, Qc. H me Ed. Paris, 1812.) The reports of Dr. Odier, of Geneva, how- ever, were rather more propitious, as he says, the nitrous acid increases the efficacy of mercury, and lessens or removes the inconveniences aris- ing from its unskilful administration. But he candidly acknowledged, that his experience had not been great enough to enable him to pro- nounce, what degree of confidence ought to be put in the acid as a remedy for syphilis. (Man. de Med. Pratique; Geneve, p. 249.) The practice of exhibiting the nitric acid for the cure of syphilitic affections was not tried in Germany so soon as in England and France. Albers, however, in 1797, gave an account of Scott’s successful experiments, and of the effi- cacy which they evinced in some cases seen by that gentleman in the Infirmary at Edinburgh. (Hufeland Journ. d. Prakt. Heillc. Vol. 20, p. 68.); while Behn, who had visited Paris in the winters of 1797 and 1793, briefly noticed the various results of the trials, which he had seen made of this acid, in the “ Clinique de Perfec- tionnement,” for the cure of obstinate syphilitic cases. (Erinnerungcn an Paris, zunachstfur Aerzte gescrichen von G. H. Behn Erst. Heft. Berl. 1799, p. 110.) At length, in 1799, Struve, who translated Mr. Blair’s first publica- tion into German, communicated to the profes- sion the particulars of some experiments made by himself with the acid; he declares, that he had very often found it an excellent remedy for inveterate pain| in the bones, nnd derangement of the constitution, produced either by the syphi- litic virus, or the injudicious employment of mercury. However, in common casts, rner-