FRACTURES. 503 olecranon towards the ulna, and confine it in this situation with a turn of the roller, with which the joint is then to be covered, by applying it in the form of a figure of 8. A strong splint, a little bent, just before the elbow, is next laid along the arm and fore-arm, and fixed by means of a roller. The apparatus being applied, the whole limb is to be evenly supported on a pillow. The cure of the fractured olecranon is seldom effected by the immediate reunion of its frag- ments : there generally remains a greater or lesser interspace between them, which is filled up by a substance, not of a bony consistence. It is true, such interspace is smaller when the fore-arm has been kept extended; but, this advantage does not at all counterbalance the unpleasant stiffness of the joint, which is the inevitable consequence of a posture so unfavourable to the functions of the I limb. (Royer, Trait £ des Maladies C/tir. T. 3, p. 226.) This author cites several facts, which prove, that when the fractured olecranon is en- tirely neglected from the case not being under- stood, the fragments are still united by a liga- mentous substance, and that when an inter- space of half an inch is thus left between them, the strength and motion of the elbow become perfect. Camper laid great stress upon the inutility of keeping the arm perfectly extended: he found patients recover sooner and better, when the elbow was kept half bent, and the joint gently exercised at as early a period as possible. “ Agglutinationem scilicet motiri non debet chi- rurgus, sed sublatis tumore ac inflammatione quiete ei remediis aptis, cubitum quotidie prudenter mo- j vere, ut unio per tricipitis tendinem, seu per con- I cretionem membranosam formetur, et os ossi non | admoveatur. Verbo quemadmodum C. Celsus in Med. Lib. 8, c. 10, § 4, p. 537, de cubito fracto praecepit. Quod si ex summo cubito quid fractum sit, glutinare id vinciendo alienum est, fit enim brachium immobile, ac, si nihil aliud quam dolori occurrendum est, idem qui fuit ejus usus est.” (Camper de Fractura Fate lice. p. 66, Hagec, 1789.) The late Mr. Sheldon, however, does not concur'with Desault and Camper, re- specting the position of the limb during the ■ treatment, but insists upon the utility of keeping the fore-arm perfectly extended. The main ob- jection to the endeavour to effect a close bony union, is the general impossibility of doing this | in such a manner, that the extremity of the ole- t cranon will afterwards adapt itself precisely to the j hollow designed for its reception at the back of E|1 k the humerus. .'I On an average, the olecranon becomes firmly ■ ! united about the twenty-sixth day. (Desault-par , j! Bichat.) I fractures oe the carpal and metacarpal •ONES, and PHALANGES OK THE FINGERS. The bones of the carpus, when broken, are usually crushed, as it were, between very heavy bodies, or the limb has been entangled in power- ful machinery, or suffered gun-shot violence. It must be obvious, therefore, that, as the soft parts are also seriously injured, these cases are genc- ; rally followed by severe and troublesome sym- ptoms, and sometimes require the performance of amputation, either immediately, or subsequently. When an attempt is to be made to save the purt, the chief indications are to extract splinters of bone, and prevent inflammation, abscesses, and mortification. The parts may at first be kept wet with a cold evaporating lotion, any wound present being lightly and superficially dressed, hut, afterwards, as soon as all tendency to1 bleed- ing is over, emollient poultices may be applied over the dressings, instead of the lotion. The dressings themselves, however, should not be removed for the first three, or four days, all un- necessary disturbance of the crushed parts being highly injurious. Should abscesses form, early openings should be practised, so as to prevent the matter from extending up the fore-arm. Duly supporting the hand and fore-arm in a sling is of the greatest importance. The meta- carpal bones of the little finger and thumb are more frequently broken, than the other three. A fracture of a metacarpal bone is generally produced by violence applied directly to the part, as no force, capable of causing the accident, can well act upon the two ends of the bone so as to break it. The fracture may be simple, but, more commonly, it is compound, the soft parts being wounded, and lacerated by the same violence, which has injured the bone. In most cases, also, unless the force has operated by a very limited surface, more than one metacarpal bone is frac- tured. At first, the same kind of treatment is requisite, as in the preceding cases, and, after the inflammation has subsided, a hand-board, or splint may be employed. When the hand is very badly crushed, amputation is indicated. In fractures of the finger bones, the treatment consists in applying a piece of soap-plaster, roll- ing the part with tape, incasing it in pasteboard, sometimes placing the hand on a flat splint, or finger-board, and always keeping the hand, fore- arm, and elbow, well supported in a sling. For Fractures of the Cranium, see Head, Injuries if. For information on fractures consult parti- cularly, J. L. Petit, Traite des Maladies des Os; Duverney, Traite des Maladies des Os. Jona- than Wathen, the Conductor and Containing Splints; or a Description of Two New invented Instruments, for the more safe Conveyance, as well as the more easy and perfect Cure of Fractures of the Leg, 2d Ed. 8vo. Lond. 1767. W. Sharp in Vol. 57 of the Philosophical Trans, part 2, 1767. An Account of a new Method of treating Frac- tured Legs. Pott's Remarks on Fractures and Dislocations. T. Kirkland, Obs. upon Mr. Pott’s general Remarks on Fractures, ^r. 8tw. Lond. 1770; also Appendix to the sume, 8vo. Land. 1771. Cases in Surgery, by C. White, Edit. 1770. J. Aitken, Essays on several Important Subjects in Surgery, chiefly on the Nature of Fractures of the Long Bones of the Extremities, particularly those of the Thigh and Leg, 8vo. 1771. Boyer, Lemons sur les Maladies des Os, redigees en un Traite comp let deces Maladies,par Richerand, or the English T'ranslation by Dr. Farrell; also, Boyer, Trait# des Mai. Chir. I, 3. Encyclopedic Methodiyuc, Partie Chir. Art. Fracture, Cuisse, Omoplote, Ilium, fyc. 6;c. (Euvres Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, T. 1. Parts of the