DISLOCATION. 883 is rotated, and the trochanter is compressed with the hand. The position is the same as in frac- tures within the ligament. The proportion of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, which I have seen, is at least four cases to one of dislo- cation.” (A Coi'ptr, Surg. Essays, Pint 1, p. 28.) To reduce this dislocation, the patient should be placed on his opposite side upon a table firmly fixed, or a large four-posted bedstead. A sheet, folded longitudinally, is first to be placed under the perineum, and one end being carried behind the patient, the other before him, they are to be fastened to one of the legs, or posts of the bed. Thus the pelvis will be fixed, so as to allow the necessary extension of the thigh-bone to be made. Great care must be taken during the extension to keep the scrotum and testicles, or the pudenda in women, from being hurt by the sheet passed under the perineum. The patient must be further fixed by the assistants. The best practitioners of the present day in France, advise the extending force to be applied to the inferior part of the leg, in order to have it as far as possible from the parts, which resist the return of the head of the bone into its natural situation. In this country, surgeons generally prefer making the extension by means of a sheet, or the strap of a pulley, fastened round the limb just above the condyles of the os femoris. The direction in which Mr. A. Cooper makes the extension, is in the line made by the limb, when it is brought across the other thigh a little above the knee. As soon as the head of the bone has been brought on a level with the acetabulum by the assistants, who are making the extension, the surgeon is to force it into this cavity by pressing on the great trochanter; or by rotating the knee and foot gently outwards, as practised by Mr. A. Cooper. The extension should always be made in a gradual and unremitting manner : at first, gen- tly ; but afterwards more strongly; never vio- lently. The difficulty of reduction arises from '.he great power and resistance of the muscles, especially the glutei and triceps, which will it length be fatigued, so as to yield to the ex- .ending force, if care be taken, that it be main- i :ained the necessary time, without the least in- :ermission. Sometimes, when there is difficulty n bringing the head of the bone over the lip of he acetabulum, Mr. A. Cooper raises it by ’lacing his arm under it near the joint. The disappearance of all the symptoms, and he noise made by the head of the bone, when it lips into the acetabulum, denote, that the reduc- ion is effected. This noise, however, is not lways made when pulleys are used. The bone 3 afterwards to be kept from slipping out again, y tying the patient’s thighs together with a 'andage placed a little above the knees. The 'atient should be kept in bed at least three 'eeks; live low, and rub the joint with a eain- horated liniment. Due time must be given for ae lacerated ligaments to unite, and the sprained arts to recover; premature exercise may bring n irremediable disease in the joint. Mr, Hey gives the following description of •e way, in which he reduced a case of this mil. Thp extension of the limb must be mad« in a right line with the trunk of the body; and, during the extension, the head of the bone must be directed outwards as well us downwards. A rotatory motion of the os femoris on its own axis, towards the spine, (the patient lying prone) seems likely to elevate the great trochanter, bring it nearer to its natural position, and direct the head of the bone towards the acetabulum. These circumstances led to the following method. A folded blanket was wrapped round one of the bed-posts, so that the patient, lying in a prone position, and astride of the bed-post, might have the affected limb on the outside of the bed. The bed was rendered immoveable, bv placing it against a small iron pillar, which had been fixed for the purpose of supporting the curtain rods. The leg was bent to a right angle with the thigh, and was supported in that po- sition by Mr. Lucas, who, when the extension should be brought to a proper degree, was to give the thigh its rotatory motion, by pushing the leg inwards, that is, towards the other inferior extremity. Mr. Jones sat before the patient’s knee, and was to assist in giving the rotatory mo- tion, by pushing the knee outwards at the same moment. I sat by the side of the patient, to press the head of the bone downwards and out- wards during the extension. Two long towels were wrapped round the thigh just above the condyles, one towel passing on the inside of the knee, the other on the outside. Three persons made the extension; but when we attempted to give the thigh its rotatory motion, we found it con- fined by the towel which passed on the inside of the knee and leg. We therefore placed both the towels on the outside; and in this position the extending force concurred in giving the rotatory motion. The first effort that was made, after the towels were thus placed, had the desired effect, and the head of the bone moved downwards and outwards into the acetabulum.” (Hey’s Practical Observations, p. 313.) For the purpose of facilitating the reduction, many surgeons endeavour to produce a tempo- rary faintness by a copious venesection, imme- diately before the extension is begun ; a practice, which, when the patient’s state of health does not forbid it, is advisable, as lessening very ma- terially the resistance of the muscles. Mr. A. Cooper gives it his general approbation, as well as the warm bath, and nauseating doses of tar- tarized antimony. After taking away from twelve to twenty ounces of blood, this gentleman places the patient in a bath heated to 100 degrees, and gradually raised to 110 degrees, until faint- ness is induced. While in the bath, the patient is also to take a grain of tartarized antimony every ten minutes, until nausea is excited, when he is to be removed from the bath, put in blankets, and placed between two strong posts, in each of which a staple is fixed, or he may be placed on the floor, into which two rings may be screwed. The maimer in which Mr. A. Cooper performs the reduction with pulleys, having been detailed in the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, I shall not here repeat it. In all cases of difficulty, the above mentioned debilitating means, the in- toxicating effect of a liberal dose of opium, and the use of pulleys, for the reduction, appear to me to deserve recommendation. Luxations of the thigh bone, downwards and