62 AMPUTATION. rect description of which was first delivered by the immortal Harvey early in the 17th century. (Excercitalio AnaC. de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis in Animalibus. Fruncof. 1628.) For some time, this grand discovery met with violent opposition; but, after it had been acknowledged as an eternal truth, a happy application of it was made to sur- gery by a French surgeon, named Morell, who, at the siege of Besan^on in 1674, invented the field-tourniquet, by means of which more certain pressure was made on the trunk of the artery. By this simple invention, founded however on a knowledge of the circulation, the surgeon could at option let the blood of the stump spirt out, or stop its jet entirely; and now, both during and after the operation, he was first enabled to com- mand the hemorrhage, and coolly and judiciously employ whatever measures were indicated; for the most powerful bandages and pressure, pre- viously in use, either stopped the circulation in the whole limb, or could not be made to have the right effect with sufficient quickness. (Brim- ninghausen Erfahr., <$y. utter die Amp. p. 36.) Morell’s tourniquet, however, was very imper- fect, and it was not till the year 1718, that J. L. Petit, whose name shines so brightly in the history of surgery, invented the kind of tourniquet now employed. Richard Wiseman, who is justly considered as the father of good English surgery, saw the ne- cessity of making the incision in the sound parts, because gangrene does not always spread evenly, but frequently extends much higher up one side of the limb, than the other. He deemed the actual cautery objectionable, as the sloughs were so long in being thrown off. He applied a ligature round the limb, two inches above the limits of the mortification, and drawing up the muscles, made the incision with a large curved knife, with the back of which he scraped off the periosteum. The bag, or sort of retractor, employed by Fa- bricius Hildanus, Wiseman thought unnecessary, as the muscles spontaneously drew themselves up as soon as divided. He tied the blood-vessels after the manner of Pare, and deprecated all burning of the stump. After the operation, he drew the flaps over the bone, and either fastened them in this position with stitches, or a tight bandage, though he generally preferred the former, as the surest means of keeping the end of the bone from protruding. Across the stump, he laid a pledget of wax-cerate, and over this a thick layer of armenian bole and other styptics, and the whole was covered with a bullock’s bladder, and a roller, applied spirally from the upper part of the remaining portion of the limb, down to the extremity of the stump. On the third day, the dressings were taken off, and a digestive oint- ment applied. (Chirurg. Treatises, vol. 2, p. 220, 8co. Loud. 1690.) From this time, amputation may be considered, as being an infinitely safer proceeding, than what it used to be; for, as we have explained, the liga- ture of the arteries was now practised and com- mended in Germany by F. Hildanus, in Eng- land by VV iseman, and in France by Dionis. Much however remained to be done. The wound was large and suppurated long arid profusely; the healing was slow; the ends of the bones perished, and projecting far beyond the soft parts, retarded the cure so long, that the patient was not unfrequently worn out. Hence the best surgeons began seriously to consider what further could he done, with the view of lessening the ex- posed surface of the wound, and making a better covering of flesh for the ends of the bones. According to Sprengel, most of the old sur- geons preserved a flap of flesh, and he is there- fore by no means disposed to regard our coun- tryman Lowdham, as the inventor of this method, though it is acknowledged, that the latter sur- geon’s practice was novel, inasmuch as the flap was formed by making an oblique incision through the integuments from below upwards. (See James Yonge’s Cnrrus TriumphaLis e Terebintho, 8vo. Loud. 1679, and Sprengei’s Gcsrhichtc drr Chirurgie, B. 1. p. 408.) Here, if Sprengel means, that many of the old surgeons endeavoured to preserve a partial covering of flesh for the bone, there can be no doubt of bis correctness, because we find, that they drew back the flesh before they divided it, and Celsus and some others even did more, for, after cutting down to the bone, they detached the flesh further from it up- wards, previously to taking the saw; but, on the contrary, if Sprengel wish us to believe, that there were practitioners, who previously to Lowd- ham, in the operation of amputation, formed what in England is usually understood by a flap, that is a portion of flesh, generally of a semilu- nar shape, and saved particularly from one side of the member for covering the bone, I cannot see any reason for coinciding with Sprengel’s ob- servation. Upon the merit of Lowdham’s sug- gestions, and the practice and principles incul- cated by J. Yonge, some reflections lately sent me by Mr. Carwardine, I insert with great pleasure, as perhaps he is right in thinking, that the last edition of this work did not do justice to the memory of the latter writer. “ At the time Yonge wrote (1679) says Mr. Carwardine, it was supposed impossible to heal a stump before the bone had exfoliated, and there- fore, no surgeon would venture upon an attempt at uniting the surface by the first intention. Now this union by the first intention, tens the chief object of Mr. Yonge in proposing the flap operation, and it is to him. and not to Mr. Alan- son, who wrote precisely 100 years after him, that we must attribute the honor of this improve- ment. It is related in a letter addressed to his friend Thomas Hobs, chirurgeon in London, dated Plymouth, August 3,1678, and published 1679, at the end of his Currus Triumphalis e Terebintho. It begins thus:— “ Sir, I find by yours that you are surprised with theintimatiou I gave you, of a way of amputating large members, so as to be able to cure them per st/iophusin in three tree's; and without fouling or scaling the bone. It is a paradox which I will now evince to you to be a truth, after I have first taken notice of what you affirm, that there is a necessity of scaling the ends of those bones left bare after the usual manner of dismembering be- fore the stump can be soundly cured; that you never yet found it otherwise, but that where it hath been attemp'.ed, the stumps have apostu- mated, and the caries come off thereby. “ Yonge then acknowledges, that it was from an ingenious brother, Mr. C . Lowdham of Exe- ter, that he had the first hint thereof. He then describes the operation—the laying down the flap