661 HYDROCELE. consequently upon this ground no reason exists dilated, and the process passing through it may ;.s, 6taml in need of only a superficial pledget for dressing. It is further explained bv the same author, that, as the cavities of the cellular membrane of the scrotum, all communicate together, a small puncture serves, as well as a large incision, for the discharge of the fluid contained in them, and for making any extehsive, painful, and hazardous wound. With respect to the practice of making punc- tures, in cases of anasarcous hydrocele, I think, that it should always be avoided as much as pos- sible, because it sometimes happens, that the ^lightest pricks of the lancet occasion sloughing. The method should only be adopted, when the distention of the skin of the scrotum is such, as ibsolutely to require tbe fluid to be discharged. 3are should also be taken not to multiply the junctures unnecessarily, nor to let them be made oo near together. (See Did. des Sciences Mccl. T. 2.3, p. 195.) When the cedematous state of the scrotum is mt the effect of a general constitutional disease, >ut proceeds entirely from a local cause, such as riction, or the irritation of the urine, the mode >f treatment consists in the removal of the cause, he use of astringent lotions, and the exhibition f a dose of salts. In elderly subjects, the wear- ing of a bag-truss is recommended for the pre- ention of the complaint. :t\ :r«» •HYDROCELE OF THE SPERMATIC CORD Is of two kinds; the first is described, as an tdematous affection, extending to more or less the cellular substance around the spermatic jssels, and sometimes named the diffused hy- roedc of the cord; the second form of the dis- isc is that, in which the fluid is collected in a irticular cavity, or cyst, which has no cotn- tunicalicn with the cavities of the common illular substance of the cord. This case is de- ominated accordingly, the encysted hydrocele the cord. That the cellular membrane of e cord is often distended with an aqueous lid, when the scrotum is anasarcous and the ibit dropsical, cannot admit of doubt, and •nee it is a frequent attendant on the case, iich has been described as the hydrocele cede- atodes. But, as I have never seen an instance, which such disease was restricted to the cel- lar texture of the cord, I am led to suppose, at it is a very uncommon case. The following said by Mr. Pott to be the state of the dis- se, while of moderate size. The scrotal bag free from all appearance of disease; except it when the skin is not corrugated, it seems her fuller, and hangs rather lower on that side m on the other, and if suspended lightlv on ^ palm of the hand, feels heavier : the testicle, ; its epididymis, is to be felt perfectly distinct ow ^'i® fulness, neither enlarged, nor in any inner altered from its natural state: the sper- ‘tic process is considerably larger than it ought ., and feels like a varix, or like an omental rma, According to the different size of the tu- 'r ’ *,as a pyramidal kind of form, broader '■ bottom than at the top: by gentle and ltinued pressure it seems gradually to recede go up, but drops down again immediately >n removing the pressure; and that as freely. in a supine, as in an erect, posture: it is attended with a very small degree of pain or uneasiness; which uneasiness is not felt in the scrotum, where the tumefaction is, but in the loins. “ If the extravasation be confined to what is called the spermatic process, the opening in the tendon of the abdominal muscle is not at all be very distinctly felt; but if the cellular mem- brane, which invests the spermatic vessels within the abdomen, be affected, the tendinous aperture is enlarged; and the increased size of the dis- tended membrane passing through it, produces to the touch, a sensation, not very unlike that of an omental rupture.” While it is small, it is hardly an object of sur- gery, and may be kept from being troublesome by means of a suspensory; but when it is large, it is very inconvenient both from size and weight, and according to Pott, the only method of cure, which it admits, is far from being void of hazard. The plan is to make a free incision into the swelling. It must be confessed, with a modern writer, that these observations on the diffused hydrocele of the cord by Mr. Pott, are far from being satis- factory, and the symptoms, by which he made up his mind to lay open the disease, were but of an equivocal description, and might have arisen from cases of another nature. (See Did. des Sciences Med. T. 22, p. 215.) THE ENCYSTED HYDROCELE OF THE SPERMATIC CORD Is a complaint by no means infrequent, espe- cially in children. It was very well known to many of the ancients, and has been accurately described by Albucasis, Celsus, Paulus fEgineta, &c. When Mr. Pott says, that the disease is not infrequent, it ought to be understood, that its frequency, though much greater, than that of the diffused hydrocele of the cord, considered as a distinct disease -independent of general anasarca, is not at all equal to that of the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. Richerand has calculated, that the average proportion of encysted hydroceles of the cord to those of the latter description, is not more, than as 1 to 200. (Nosogr. Chir. T. 4, p. 262, Ed. 4.) Accord- ing to Mr Pott, the swelling is mostly situated at the middle part of the cord, between the tes- ticle and groin, and is generally of an oblong figure; whence it has by some people been com- pared to an egg, by others to a fish’s bladder. Whether it be large or small, it is generally pretty tense, and consequently the fluctuation of the water within it, not always immediately or easily perceptible. It gives no pain, nor (unless it be very large indeed) does it hinder any neces- sary action. It is perfectly circumscribed ; and has no communication, either with the cavity of the belly above, or that of the vaginal coat of the testicle below it. The testis and its epididymis, are perfectly and- distinctly to be felt below the tumor, and are absolutely independent of it. The upper part of the spermatic process in the groin is most frequently very distinguishable. The swelling does not retain the impression of the fingers; and when lightly struck upon, sounds as if it contained wind only. It under- . goes no alteration from change of the patient’s posture; it is not affected by his coughing,