HYPOPIUM. 691 Tliis fact sufficiently evinces (continues this eminent Professor) how important it is, in order to check the progress of the hvpopium, to employ, with the utmost care, the most effectual means for checking the attack of violent ophthalmy in its first stage. Copious evacuations of blood, both generally and topically, ought to be speedily- put in practice ; and when chemosis exists, the conjunctiva should be divided; mild aperients given, blisters applied to the nape of the neck, little bags of emollient herbs to the eye, and other measures employed. It will be known that they have fulfilled the indication, by notic- . tag that, some days after the adoption of such treatment, though there may still be redness of the conjunctiva and eyelids, the lancina- ting pains in the eye abate, the heat considerablv diminishes, the fever subsides, quietude and sleep are restored, the motion of the eye be- ■ comes free, and, lastly, the collection of viscid ■. matter forming the hvpopium, becomes sta- tionary. It is not unfrequent to see, especially' among the lower orders of the people, persons affected with the second stage of severe acute ophthalmy, bearing this collection of coagulating lymph, in the chambers of the aqueous humour, with the greatest indifference, and without eom- l plaining of any of those symptoms which cha- | racterize the acute stage of ophthalmy'. It is i only at this crisis, or at the termination of the acute stage of violent inflammation of the eye, : that the enlargement of the hypopium ceases, j md the coagulating lymph begins to be absorbed, ! if arovided this salutary operation of nature be not j :: mpeded, nor retarded, by any injudicious regi- ' nen. However, if Scarpa had also been aware 1 : )t the great efficacy of mercury', in arresting the j dfusion of lymph, I can hardly doubt, that he j vould have modified some of the preceding ob- | >ervaticns, as well as his practice; a subject to I vhicli I shall presently advert again. Scarpa states, that persons, little versed in the reatment of diseases of the eyes, would fancy hat the most expeditious and efficacious mode •f curing an hypopium, after it has become sta- ionary in the second stage of severe acute oph- halmyy would be that of opening the cornea at •s most depending part, in order to procure a peedy exit for the matter collected in the hambers of the aqueous humour; especially, as I ais was once the common doctrine. But ex- | erience shews, that dividing the cornea, in such ircumstances, is seldom successful, and most equenllv gives rise to evils, worse than the j ypopium itself, notwithstanding the modifica- on suggested by Richter, (Ohs. C'/iir. Fasc. 1, hap. 12), not to evacuate the whole of the atter at once, nor to promote its discharge by *q>eated pressure and injections, but to allow it > How slowly out of itself. The wound made the lower part of the cornea, for evacuating 'I IC maUer of the hypopium, small as the incision W most commonly reproduces severe acute W thalmy, and a greater effusion of coagulat- S >mph into the chambers of the aqueous Jtnour. Besides, after opening the cornea, if 1'e n‘atter of the hypopium were allowed to "-ape gradually of itself, it would be several ,n.keing completely discharged, on account 1 s ▼weidity. During this time, the glutinous. mPh Wo",a keep the edges of the wound of the cornea dilated, and make them suppurate. Thus, the incision would he converted into an ulcer, through which the aqueous humour would escape, and even a fold of the iris. Opening the cornea, therefore, only converts the hypopium into an ulcer of that membrane, attended with a pro- lapsus of the iris, and occasionally of the cry- stalline itself. Nor can any inference be drawn, in favor of making an artificial opening, during the stationary state of an hypopium in the se- cond stage of severe acute ophthalmy, from the matter of the hyTpopium having sometimes made its way spontaneously through a narrow aper- ture in the cornea, with a successful result. For, there is a wide difference, between the effects of a spontaneous opening in a natural, or preter- natural, cavity of the animal body, or of one made with.caustic, and the consequences of an opening, made with a cutting instrument. In the two first methods, the subsequent symptoms are constantly milder than in the last. Besides, even in the instance, in which a spontaneous discharge of the hypopium takes place through the cornea, an escape of the aqueous hujnour, and a prolapsus of the iris, not unfrequently en- sue; consequently, the spontaneous evacuation of the hypopium cannot justly form a rule for the treatment of the disease. There is only one case, in which dividing the cornea, in order to discharge an hypopium, is not only useful, but indispensable; this is, when there is such an immense quantity of coagulating lymph, extra- vasated in the eye, that the excessive distention, which it produces of all the coats of this organ, occasions symptoms so vehement, as not only threaten the entire destruction of the eye, but even endanger the life of the patient. But this particular case cannot serve (says Scarpa) as a model for the treatment of ordinary cases. The dispersion of the hypopium, by means of absorption, forms the primary indication, at which the surgeon should aim In order to stop its progress, the most efficacious method is to subdue the first violence of the inflammation, and to shorten its acute stage, by the free employment of antiphlogistic treatment, and the use of mild emollient, topical remedies. And, in conjunction with these means, there can now be no doubt, that the practice of Bruel, published in 1809, as will be mentioned, at the close of this article, ought to be followed : I mean, the quick exhibition of the submuriate of mercury, which has been also found at the Lon- don Eye Infirmary the most powerful means of checking the effusion of lymph in the eye. (See Saunders's Work on. the Eye, Ed. 2, and a Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, by B. Travers, p. 135.) If this treatment answer, the incipient col- lection of coagulating lymph, at the bottom of the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, not only ceases to augment, but, also, in proportion as the,severe ophthalmy disappears, the absorb- ent system takes up the heterogeneous fluid ex- travasated in the eye, and the white, or yellow speck, shaped like a crescent, situated at the bottom of the anterior chamber, gradually di- minishes. and is at last entirely dispersed. Jnnin considered an infusion of the flowers ol mallows, applied to the eye that is inflamed and affected with this disease, as a specific resolvent in these Y Y 2