TON TON 1037 . apt to occasion dangerous inflammations of urinary organs, violent stranguries, and re- ion of urine. It is occasionally used in vari- liniments, when the object is to stimulate skin considerably! and rouse the action of ‘ nerves and absorbents, as in certain cases >tosis, paralysis, <K:c. Mr. Anthony Todd inson has found it an useful application in mortification of the extremities, sometimes ■aening without any apparent cause ; and also frost-bitten parts. (London Dispensatory, ,'58, Ed. 2.) •TNCTURA THEBAICA. (See Vinum .i.) INEA CAPITIS. (See Porrigo.) ’OI5ACCO is used for promoting the reduc- of strangulated hernia, either in the form of mid clyster, or of smoke, which latter is in- deed up the rectum by means of an ap- tittus. Excepting the operation, the power of icco, particularly, when assisted by the topi- application of cold to the tumor, is most to lepended upon for bringing about the return the protruded viscera. (See Hernia, and •:>na.) It has also been tried in tetanus; Mr. Earle has found tobacco clysters very aeious in certain cases of retention of urine, e Tetanus, and Urine, Retention of) Con- T. Forder, Medical Reports of the Effects Tobacco, Hvo. Load. 1785. A. P. Wilson, Experimental Essay on the manner in c/i Opium and Tobacco act on the living nal Body, 8r o. Ed mb. 1795. R. Ilamil- Dc Nicotiame Viribus in Medicines, <Jc. . Edinb. 1780. ONGUE, DISEASES OF. This part is ! ect to various diseases, as ulcers, tumors, such enlargements as sometimes put the ent in imminent danger of suffocation. Various teeth, with points and inequalities, educing continual irritation, are the most fre- nt cause of ulcerations of the tongue. The < es, thus arising, often resist every kind of re- ly, and ignorance of the cause sometimes .Is the practitioner to consider them as incura- ; whereas, a cure may easily be effected by racting the carious tootb, or simply filing otf sharp irregularities, as was anciently directed i Celsus. The glandular papillae which are situated on ii dorsum, or upper surface of the tongue, have arrow base, and a broad termination or head, : a mushroom. They are capable of beeo- •. ig considerably enlarged, so as to form pre- latural tumors, which may be mistaken for 'cerous excrescences. > V young man, eighteen years of age, had on middle of his tongue a circumscribed tumor, ut as large as a middle-sized nutmeg. Louis, } was consulted, perceived that the swelling i only of a fungous nature, and he tied its e with a ligature, with the noose of which he itracted the diameter of the pedicle, while, a the ends, he kept down the tongue. Then, h one stroke of a pair of curved scissars, he off the tubercle. Caustic was afterwards died to the base of the tumor, and the patient 1 perfectly well in five or six days. (Sur let iludiet dc la Langue, in Memoircs dc T Acad. Chir. T. 5.) Morgagni speaks of similar tubercles; but i he never advised their extirpation, not even when they were hard and scirrhous; for, if he had not deemed the operation impracticable, lie should not have had any confidence in the sur- geons who were consulted. The tongue is occasionally affected with a true cancerous disease; one of the most afflict- ing cases, indeed, which can possibly happen, as may be conceived, when it is known, that, in the advanced stage of the disease, the patient can hardly take his food, which must be conveyed over the tongue by some means, or another, before it can be swallowed, while he is obliged to write whatever he wishes to say. (See Home's Pract. Obs. on Cancer, p. 112.) Can- cer of the tongue seems to differ from other carcinomatous affections in frequently occurring in youngish subjects. In the course of the dis- ease, the glands behind the jaw and in the neck are sometimes affected. Louis saw a lady, who had an ulcerated cancerous tubercle on the left edge of the tongue. The little swelling was circumscribed ; its size did not exceed that of a filbert; the pains were lancinating; the sore had penetrated deeply; and its tuberculated edges were affected with a scirrhous hardness. Extir- pation of the disease seemed to present the only chance of cure; but the patient refused to ac- cede to any thing but palliative plans, and she died in the course of a few months. Forestus makes mention of four women, who were attacked with cancer of their tongues, and died from the ravages of the disease, and he- morrhage. In the writings of Hildanus, there is a description of the origin and progress of a cancerous tubercle on a young man’s tongue, whose breath was intolerably fetid and who died in the most excruciating pain. The same author informs us of another case, exhibiting the good effects of sedative remedies in palliating a can- cerous ulcer of the tongue, and the fatal conse- quences of an opposite line of conduct. In authors, many other examples, of the same kind, are to be met with. Surgery, however, is not destitute of resources against diseases of so formidable a nature. The following case exemplifies the benefit which may be effected by this useful profession, when not exercised by men of too timorous a character. An elderly woman had an ulcerated hardness on her tongue. It had been several times cut away, and as repeatedly returned. Ituysch was called into consultation with one of the surgeons, who was attending the patient, and who had already extended his incisions very deeply for the removal of the disease. The result of their deliberations was another attempt to extirpate the tumor, and they also determined that after it had been cut away, the actual cautery should be freely applied, with a view of destroying the roots of the fungus. The patient consented to the plan, and bore the operations with great forti- tude. The tongue was taken hold of with a cloth, and Pierre Le Memnonite, a surgeon of eminence, removed the disease with a curved bis- toury. The inside of the mouth was then pro- tected with wet cloths, and the actual cautery applied several times to the wound in the tongue. The pain was appeased, and the sepa- ration of the eschar promoted bv emollient gar- gles. Under the use of a gargle of honey of