FRACTURES. 4S7 performed by Mr. A. Cooper and Dr. Colles, with the view of ascertaining the state of the joint, after fractures of the neck of the thigh- bone, little doubt can be entertained, that, where the fracture is transverse, and within the. capsular ligament, a bony reunion, if not absolutely im- possible, is at least so rare an occurrence as not to be calculated upon. The difference of the French surgeons upon this question is to be ascribed to their not having duly discriminated from the fore- going kind of case, either fractures extending more or less in the direction of the axis of the neck of the bone, or other fractures external to the capsular ligament. How much, however, the safety of the practitioner’s reputation will de- pend upon the prognosis, which is given, must be quite evident; for in the trunsversejracture within the capsule, lameness is sure to follow, though its degree cannot at Jirst be exactly estimated, (yi. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 51.) The following circumstances are enumerated by this author, as forming a criterion of the fracture being external to the capsular ligament. 1. The injury frequently happens in young persons; in- deed, it is said, that, when the patient is under fifty, the fracture is generally on the outside of the capsule, and capable of ossific union. 2. Whilst the internal fracture happens from very slight causes, this is produced by severe blows, falls from considerable heights, or by the passage of a carriage-wheel over the pelvis. 3. The crepitus is in general more readily felt, in consequence of there being less retraction of the limb. 4. The trochanter is displaced forwards nearer the spine of the ilium, than natural. 5. The pain of the accident is greater, than when the fracture is within the capsule. 6. The limb is generally less shortened. 7. The limb admits of being rotated with greater facility, there being no remnant of the cervix, capable of making re- sistance by coming in contact with the ilium. (Vol. cit. p. 53.) Having spoken of the nature of fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, within and without the capsular ligament, I come next to the con- sideration of the proper practice to be adopted. In the first description of the injury, as no osseous union can be expected, ought we to en- deavour to keep the fragments, as nearly in a state of apposition as possible, and subject the patient to rest and confinement, with the view of promoting the other modes of union, so well pointed out in Dr. Colles’s paper? Or, should we, as Mr. A. Cooper does, avoid con- fining the patient to any long, or continued ex- tension, “ as being likely to be productive of ill-health, without the probability of producing union?” Yet, it appears both from this gentle- man’s own statements, and from those of Dr. Codes, that, though a bony union cannot be effected, other connecting means may be esta- blished, and the more perfect these are, the less will be the subsequent lameness. As long, there- fore, as these facts are incontrovertible, I should be disposed to recommend surgeons to do every thing in their power to keep the limb quiet, and •J* a desirable posture, for a due length of time. bother for this purpose, Boyer’s apparatus, w>th the limb in the straight posture; or the apparatus with two inclined surfaces, with the limb in the bent position, and the patient on his back; or lastly, Hagedorn’s ingenious and scientific treatment, as explained in the second vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, should be preferred, time and experience must determine. Mr. A. Cooper merely places one pillow under the whole length of the limb, and puts another across under the patient’s knee, so as to keep the limb in an easy bent position. In a fort- night, or three weeks, the patient is allowed to sit upon a high chair, and, in a few more days, he begins to take exercise upon crutches. After a time, these are laid aside, a stick substituted for them, and, in a few months, this assistance may be dispensed with. At the end of the treatment, a shoe must be worn with a sole of equal thick- ness to the diminished length of the limb. (Sur- gical Essays, Part 2, p. 50.) In the treatment of such fractures of the neck of the femur, as are situated on the outside of the capsular ligament, Mr. A. Cooper prefers the position in which the patient lies on his back, with the injured limb in a bent posture, supported on what is termed the double inclined plane, the kind of instrument already spoken of, as being sometimes employed by Mr. C. Bell. When the limb has been placed over this machine, in an easy bent position, a long splint, reaching above the trochanter major, is applied to the outer side of the thigh, and fastened to the pelvis with a strong leather strap, so as to press one portion of bone towards the other. The lower part of the splint is also fastened to the outside of the knee with a strap. The limb is to be kept as quiet as possible for eight weeks, at the end of which time, the patient may leave his bed, if the at- tempt should not cause too much pain; but, the splint is to be continued another fortnight. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 59.) Desault’s apparatus has been described in the foregoing columns, and those of Boyer and Hagedorn are explained and represented in the 2d Vol. of the First Lines of Surgery. Larrey, who disapproves of the plan of con- tinued extension, has lately proposed a particular apparatus for fractures of the neck of the femur: but, as it appears to me very inferior to other methods already mentioned, I shall here merely refer to the Journ. Compl. T. 8, p. 116, where a description of it may be found. 1 am glad to find, the number of advocates for Pott’s method of treatment annually diminish- ing. Indeed, the bad effects and painful conse- quences of having the whole weight of the trunk operating upon the fractured ends of the bone, which are often'not properly in contact, are too obvious to need any comment. Yet, this in- judicious pressure is made in the bent position, which also forbids the use of long effective splints, and all assistance from moderate continued ex- tension. A fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone may be complicated with a dislocation of the head of the bone.. (See J. G. Haase, De Fractura colli Oisis Femoris, cum LuTatione Capitis rjusdem ossis ennjuveta, Lips. 1798.'i For further information, relative to fractures of the neck of the femur, the following authors may be consulted. C. G. Ludwig de Colin Femoris ejusque Fractura Pro- gratnma, Lips. 1 755. Btllocy, in M6m. I'Acad, de Chir. T. 3. Ail ken’s and Gooche’s machines are described in B. Bdl's Surgery, Vol. 4. Sabatier,