CATHETER. 331 of the silver catheter, he introduced it about four hours after the preceding operation, and fixed it by tying it to a bag truss. Mr. Hey sometimes succeeded by partly withdrawing the stilet, at the moment when he wished to increase the curvature of the catheter. In an instance, in which the urethra had suf- fered a violent contusion, Mr. Hey drew off the urine with a silver catheter of unusual thick- ness, after he had failed with instruments of a smaller bore. He suspected, that the urethra was ruptured, and was obliged to raise the point of the catheter by a finger introduced into the rectum, and to use bleeding, purgatives, the iwarm bath and opium, before it could be made to paSs. The elastic gum catheter was afterwards employed. It is an unsettled point, whether it is best to leave the catheter in the urethra, until . the power of expelling the urine is regained, or : to draw off the urine twice a day, and withdraw the catheter after each operation. Mr. Hey thinks that no general rule can be laid down ; : some patients cannot bear the catheter to remain .introduced ; others seem to suffer no inconveni- e cnee from it. On the whole, however, Mr Hey : commonly prefers removing the catheter. In this manner, he is of opinion, that the power of ex- ; pelling the urine again is soonest acquired. The preceding question is often determined . by the nature of the disease, and, as Mr. Hunter observes, in cases of debiiity of the bladder, and ’where a catheter passes with difficulty, or with ^reat uncertainty, as well as in other instances, in which it must be used frequently, and for i length of time, it will be necessary to keep it introduced, so as to allow the water to pass ifieely through it. (On the Vaierial Disease, Edit. 2, p. 191.) In France, a conical silver catheter (sonde •unique) is frequently employed in difficult cases jy Boyer, Roux, &c. This instrument has a very slight curvature, and an extremity almost jointed. By force, regularly applied, it is in- rodueed into the bladder in spite of all opposi- tion. Care is taken to keep it in the centre of the passage, and the direction of its point is udged of by the position of the lateral rings. The rule mentioned by Roux, for commencing he great depression of the outer extremity of he instrument, is, when, by the finger in the ectum, the point can be felt to have reached the ipex of the prostate. (See Sketches of the Merit- 'd l Schools of Paris, by J. Cross, p. ] 12.) In •ad cases, the conical catheter is usually allowed o remain introduced three or four days, and on >eing withdrawn, a small flexible gum catheter ;eneraliy admits of being used. The forcible manner, in which the French urgeons employ the conical silver catheter, uust often do great and dangerous mischief, hus, in two examples, which were witnessed nd examined by Roux himself alter the decease • the patients, a false passage had been made, 0 flexible gum catheter could be passed, the rine was effused in the cellular membrane, and he parts were gangrenous. (See p. 116 of the ’>ove Work.) According to the observatii n f Mr. Cross, the French surgeons employ the "nical silver catheter with too little discriminu- i°'i, and “ m their practice they seem to make o nice distinctions between impediments to the flow of urine from spasm, irritable and inflamed state of the canal, disease of the prostate gland, and cartilaginous stricture of long duration. If the conical catheter be admissible at all, it is in the last of these cases, particularly, when com- bined with fistula in peririseo ; and here all sur- geons, who are familiar with the treatment of diseases of the urethra, occasionally use means, which approach very closely to the forcing me- thod of the French. I have heard of instances, in which John Hunter employed great force with the silver catheter, and overcame the obstruction. I have seen Mr. Pearson, (who generally treats strictures as mildly, and, I need hardly say, as successfully as any man) take a steel sound, and pass it gradually and forcibly on into the bladder, at the same time feeling his way, as it were, by keeping one finger in the rectum : the relief of the patient, and the ultimate cure of the disease, were the results of this practice.” (P. 118.) It appears further, that the conical silver catheter has been used by Mr. A. Cooper. Without alto- gether condemning the occasional employment of this instrument, I perfectly coincide with Mr, Cross, that it is one, with which young men, of little caution and no experience, may do more harm in the first few cases they meet with, than the rest of their life will allbrd them oppor- tunities of doing good. Mr. Hunter refers to instances, in which the common catheter had been pushed through the projecting part of the prostate gland into the bladder, and the water then drawn off; but, “ in one'- patient, the blood from the wound passed into the bladder, and increased the quantity of matter in it. 1 he use of the catheter was at- tempted a second time ; but, not succeeding, I was sent for. I passed the catheter till it came to the stop, and then suspecting, that this part of the prostate projected forwards, I introduced my finger into the anus, and found that gland very much enlarged. By depressing the handle of the catheter, which of course raised the point, it passed over the projection; but, unfortunately the blood had coagulated in the bladder, which filled up the holes in the catheter, so that I was obliged to withdraw it, and clear it repeatedly. This I practised several days; but, suspecting that the coagulum must in the end kill, I pro- posed cutting him (the patient) for the stone; but lie died before it could be conveniently done, and the dissection, after death, explained the case, &c.” (On the Venereal Disease, Ed. 2, V- 172.) . To one acquainted with anatomy, the intro- duction of the female catheter is exceedingly simple. From motives of delicacy to the sex, the instrument should always be passed without any exposure. The surgeon should hold the catheter in his right hand, while he introduces the fore-finger of his left hand between the nymph a: so as to feel upon the upper surface iff the jiassage the little papilla, which surrounds, and denotes to the touch, the precise situation of the orifice of the meatus urinarius. Holding the concavity of the catheter forward, the surgeon, guided by the fore-finger of his left hand, is then to introduce the instrument upward into the blad- der. A female .catheter should always be fur- nished with some contrivance for preventing its slipping completely into the bladder: the lol-