AMPUTATION. 90 to form a line from the acromion downwards. {Gunshot IVminis, />. ii.JT, I am decidedly (4 opinion, that, in the description of cases referred to, either this method, or Sabatier’s operation, should be preferred to the removal of the whole limb at the shoulder joint. AMPUTATION of the fore-arm. i he wisest maxim, with respect to the place for making the incision, is to cut off as little of the limb as possible. This fact is perfectly esta- blished, though it is true that Larrey, in con- sequence of his mode of dressing the stump, has not experienced success in his amputations done in the tendinous part of the fore-arm. The fore- arm is to be held by two assistants, one of whom is to take hold of the elbow, the other of the wrist. The tourniquet is to be applied to the lower part of the arm, and the assistant holding the elbow, should draw up the integuments, so as to make them tense. The circular incision is then to be made down to the fascia ; from this as much skin is to he detached, reflected and saved, as is necessary for covering the ends of the bones, and the muscles are to be cut on a level with the reflected skin, the knife being at the same time di- rected obliquely upward. As many of the muscles are deeply situated between the two bones of the fore-arm, too much attention cannot be paid to dividing all of them, with a double-edged knife introduced between the radius and ulna. The soft parts are to be protected from the saw by a linen retractor. It is generally recom- mended to sa\y the two bones together, for which purpose the forearm should be placed in the ut- most state of pronation. In any other position, the ulna is situated almost directly under the radius. The ulnar, radial, and two interosseous ar- teries, are those, which usually require a liga- ture. Graefe removes the fore-arm by making a flap from the flesh in front of. the limb, and then extending the wound quite round the member. ( Normal fur die Ablosung gidsserer Gliedni. p. 138, &;c. 4to. Berlin, 1812.) Mr. Guthrie makes two flaps, one in front, the other on the back of the fore-arm ; but, above the middle of this part of the limb, he prefers the circular incision. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 373—374.) Dr. Hennen also expresses Ins approbation of ampu- tating the forearm, so as to make two semilunar flaps : (Principles if Military Surgery, p. 265. edit. 2;) which is the method recommended and practised by Klein. (Pructische Ansichlen bedeu- lemlsten operutionem HeJ’l, p. 45.) These flap- operations of the forearm are rather proceedings of choice, than of necessity ; for, I have seen this part of the limb removed in numberless in- stances by the circular incision, and can hardly remember a case, in which the stump turned out badly. In making the inner flap, the radial and ulnar arteries must obviously be in danger of being wounded higher up, than the point, where they are quite cut through, as Mr. Guthrie can- didly acknowledges ; an accident which I think might give rise to a great deal of trouble. VVitli respect to Larrey’s preference to ampu- tating in the fleshy part of the forearm, though the case would admit of the operation being done much lower, I need only say, he would find no reason l'or this choice, were lie to practise union by the first intention, at every opportunity, as is ! the custom in England. The hand may be amputated at the joint of the i wrist, whenever the disease does not extend too ; high, and a flap can be made of the integuments J of the back of the hand. Richerand thinks such j an operation sometimes preferable to amputation above the joint. (Nosngr. Chimrg. T. 4, p. 506, edit. 4.) amputation at the hip-joint. The very idea of this formidable operation, | for a long while, checked the hand even of the | most ready advocate for the use of the ampu- j tating knife, and every mind shuddered at so ex- tensive a mutilation. Still, it could not be denied i that the chance of saving life occasionally de- j pended upon a submission to the greatest tempo- j rary suffering, and that without the most cruel of sacrifices, the preservation of the patient was totally impossible. Dreadful as the amputation at the hip appeared, both in respect to the mag- nitude of the part of the body to be removed, and the extent of the wound caused by such re- moval, the desperate nature of some cases at length begun to incline surgeons to view more dispassionately a scheme, at which the mind at first ■; must naturally have revolted. Morand is the earliest practitioner, who made this severe ope- ration the subject of considerable attention, (Opuscules de Chir. T. 1, p. 176, 8vo. 1768,,) and in the year 1739, two essays on the same topic were communicated to the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris, by two of his pupils, Vol- ner and Pethod. In 1743, Ravaton wished to have performed amputation at the hip-joint in a case of gunshot fracture of the trochanter major, and neck of the thigh bone, but was prevented by the opposition of other surgeons. (Chir. d’ Arm. p. 323, Sfc.) In 1748, the propriety of attempting the operation was urged by l’Alouette. (Disp. Chir. Hallcri, t. 5, p. 265.) At length, the Royal Academy of Surgery at Paris thought the subject highly deserving of further investiga- tion, as it appeared to several of its members, that there were circumstances under which its performance might be advisable. In the year 1756, they therefore proposed the following question, as the grand prize subject; In the case, in which amputation of the hip-joint should appear to he the only resource for saving the patient's life, to determine whether this operation ought to be practised, and what would be the hist way of performing it? No satisfactory memoirs having been presented, the same subject was proposed in 1759. The approbation of the Academy was now conferred on a paper written by Barbet, in which the propriety of amputating at the hip- joint was defended, and some of the cases de- manding the operation specified. If, for instance, a cannon ball, or any other violently contusing cause, had carried off or crushed the thigh, so as to leave only a few parts to be cut to make the separation complete, he thought a surgeon ought not to hesitate about doing it. The same author conceived that a sphacelus, extending to the circumference of the joint, and destroying the greatest part of the surrounding flesh, might also render the operation equally necessary and easy. (Sec Sibaticr, Med. Opcratoire, t. 3, p. 271, fyc.) Cases were also adduced, where the surgeon completed the separation of the dead parts with