HEMORRHAGE. 587 quire further examination, notwithstanding an accidental faintness produced by the sudden loss of blood in the first instance may have been the means of saving one or two of the animals on which Bedard made his experiments. This author thinks it probable, that a puncture, or longitudinal incision, in the artery of a man, may be cured by nature; but, that a transverse wound never cicatrizes properly, but the dot be- comes displaced, or, if a cicatrix be formed, it will be distended and torn. One fact, made out by the same gentleman, is, that, when an artery is deprived of its sheath for an extent greater, than its distance of retraction, the hemorrhage is mortal. I have not yet had time to look over the original paper; but, it appears to me, that it would be desirable to know precisely to what sized arteries the author is referring, when he is making some of the above inferences. The size and condition of each animal, the sub- ject of experiment, should also be particularly specified; as experiments made on the femoral artery of a lady’s lap-dog would surely not have the same results, as those performed on the same artery of a large terrier, setter, or Newfoundland dog. According to Dr. Jones, the lymph, which fills up the wound of an artery, is poured out very freely both from the vessel and the surrounding parts, and it accumulates around the artery, par- ticularly, over the wound, where it forms a more distinct tumor. The exposed surrounding parts at the same time inflame, and pour out coagula- ting lymph, with which the whole surface of the wound becomes covered, and which completely excludes the artery from the external wound. This lymph granulates, and the wound is filled up and healed in the usual manner. (See Junes on Hemorrhage, p. 113, <|t. ) SURGICAL MEANS OF SUPPRESSING HEMOR- RHAGE. It must be plain to every one, who under- stands the course of the circulation, that pres- sure, made on that portion of a wounded artery, which adjoins the wound towards the heart, must check the effusion of blood. The current of blood in the veins, running in the opposite direc- tion, requires the pressure to be applied to that side of the wound, which is most remote from the heart. However, on account of the freedom and facility, with which the blood is transmitted through the anastomoses, from the portion of the artery above the point of pressure into the lower continuation of the artery, such pressure will often only check, and not effectually stop the bleeding, unless the part of the vessel di- rectly below the wound be also compressed, or secured. As pressure is the most rational means of impeding hemorrhage, so it is the most effec- tual ; and almost all the plans, employed for this purpose, ;>re only modifications of it. The tour- niquet, the ligature, the application of a roller and compresses, even agaric itself, only become useful in the suppression of hemorrhage, on the principle of pressure : the cautery, caustics, and styptics however, have a different mode of ope- ration. In order to prevent a wounded person from dying of hemorrhage, Cclsus advises the wound to be filled with dry lint, over which was laid a sponge dipped in cold water, and pressed on the part with the hand. If, notwithstanding these means, the hemorrhage should continue, he re- commends repeatedly applying fresh lint, wet with vinegar; but, he is against the use of cor- roding escbarotic applications, on account of the inflammation, which they produce ; or only sanc- tions the employment of the mildest ones. When the hemorrhage resists these methods, lie advises two ligatures to he applied to the wounded part of the vessel, and then dividing the portion situated between them:—“ Quod si ilia quoque projlnvio vincuntur, venae, q/ue sanguinem fundunt, apprehendendee, circaque id, quod ictum est, duobus locis deliganda?, intereidendeeque sunt, tit et in se ipsa: cocant, et nihilominus ora praeclusa habeant.” Lib. 5. cap. '26. When the ligature was impracti- cable, the wound bled dangerously, and there were no large nerves, nor muscles at the bleeding part, Celsus proposed the actual cautery. Galen also mentions tying the vessels for the purpose of stopping hemorrhage ; and there are some traces of the same information in other authors, who lived before him, as Archigenes, and Rufus. Probably, however, the ligature was little used at these early periods, as may be inferred from the multitude of astringents, cau- stics, and other applications, which were^advised for stopping bleeding, and in which less con- fidence would have been put, had the use of the ligature been familiarly known. No one can doubt, that if the old surgeons had had many op- portunities of seeing the advantages of the liga- ture, they would soon have used it after amputa- tions ; but, so far were they from adopting such practice, that, Albucasis, a long while afterwards, refused to amputate at the wrist, lest he should see his patient bleed to death. Pare is considered as the first, who regularly employed the ligature after amputation. His method having been attacked, he modestly de- fends it in the part of his works, intitled, Apolo- gic, where he takes great care to impute the ori- gin of it to the ancients, and cites many of them, who have made mention of it. However, he thinks its utility in amputations of such high con- sequence, that he ascribes to inspiration of the Deity his first adoption of this practice. The method, in which the ancients placed most confidence, for stopping hemorrhage after the amputation of a limb, was the cauterization of the cut vessel, and surrounding flesh. The parts, thus affected by the heat, formed an es- char, of greater, or less thickness, which blocked up the opening of the vessel, and hindered the blood from escaping. The separation of the es- char, however, which frequently took place too soon, occasioned a return of the hemorrhage, and rendered it the more dangerous, as its sup- pression was now more difficult, than before the cautery was applied. Sometimes, the instrument being too much heated, immediately brought away with it the eschar. At the present time, the cautery is never employed, as a means ol suppressing hemorrhage, or. at most, only in a few very unusual cases, in whiqli neither com- pression, nor the ligature can be made use of. In Great Britain, the cautery may be said to be en- tirely exploded; but, in 1'ranee, the host liospi-