FRACTURES. consider the French inode of making tfie ex- tension and counter-extension as generally inad- missible. I was also formerly of opinion, that the bent position ol the limb on its side, as advised by i'h. Pott, was the best for fractured thighs-; but, this sentiment lias subsequently appeared to me eironeous, and it gives me pleasure to have this opportunity of declaring my entire conversion to the principles and practice adopted in these cases by Desault, and other eminent continental sur- geons. I he considerations, which have led me to this change, will be related in speaking of fractured thighs. If then the straight posture be advantageous in cases of broken thighs, I think it will be universally allowed, that the parts of the limb, recommended by the French surgeons for the application of the extension and counter-ex- tension, are the most proper. The evils and difficulties, formerly encountered in setting fractured limbs, undoubtedly proceeded in a great measure from the violent extension and counter-extension practised by our ancestors. As they were ignorant of the utility of relaxing the muscles, which displaced the ends of the broken bone, they had no means, but the employment of actual force, to effect the reduction. Since, however, the excellent instructions, contained in Mr. Polt’s remarks on fractures, have received all the attention due to them, practitioners have generally been careful, in the reduction of frac- tures, to incapacitate the muscles as much as possible by relaxing them, and thus the necessity for the employment of violent extension and counter-extension is effectually removed. It is difficult to lay down rules, respecting the precise degree of force, which should be used in making extension ; for, it must vary in different eases, according to the species of displacement, and the number and power of the muscles con- cerned in producing it. In transverse fractures, displaced only according to the diameter of the bone, a very moderate extension suffices, as it is merely practised with a view of lessening the friction of the surfaces of the fracture, which are always more or less rough. But, whatever be the direction of the fracture, when the fragments ride over each other, the extension and counter- extension must constantly be such as tojemove the shortening of the limb, and overcome the force of those muscles, which, after all attention has been paid to their relaxation, still oppose the reduction. Extension, however, ought never to be practised in a violent and sudden way; but, in as gradual a manner as possible, the utmost care being taken not to shake, nor even move the limb any more, than.can be avoided. When the practitioner extends a broken member all at once violently, he excites the muscles to strong spas- modic action, and there is some danger of lacera- ting them, because their fibres are not allowed the requisite time to yield to the force, which elon- gates them, 'i he extension is to begin in the direction of the lower fragment, and be continued in that, which is natural to the body of the bone. In every case of fracture with displacement, as soon as the necessary extension has been made, the surgeon ts to endeavour to place the ends of the broken bone in their natural situation : this js termed cvnptaiwn^ or setting* Ihis operation is to be undertaken in different ways, according to the species of displacement, and the prac- titioner can almost always execute it by acting upon the lower fragment, without applying his lingers directly to the fracture itself, in order Ur regulate the contact of the extremities of the bone. When, however, it is judged necessary for this purpose to touch the broken part itself, it should be done with the utmost gentleness, so as to avoid pressing the soft parts against- the points and splinters of bone. Although the reduction of fractures may in general be accomplished with tolerable facility, it sometimes happens, that the first attempts fail. This is occasionally aseribable to tiie employ- ment of too much force, and too little manage- ment, in making the extension; so that the muscles arc irritated, and act so powerfully, that the de- sign of the surgeon is completely frustrated. Here, the grand means of success iiputting the limb into such a position, as will relax the most powerful muscles, which oppose .lie reduction. Sometimes, however, the irritable and convulsive state of the muscles is not the effect of any wrong mode of proceeding on the part of the surgeon; but arises from the alarm, pain, and injury, caused by the accident itself. Here relax- ing the muscles as much as possible is also the most likely method of removing the difficulty. In short, now that the utility of paying attention to this principle is universally known in the pro- fession, a fracture is hardly ever met with, which cannot be immediately reduced; particularly if a copious bleeding be premised when the patient is a strong muscular subject. This evacuation, in- deed, will also prove for other reasons highly beneficial, where the limb is much contused and swollen, and the tendency to inflammation is ■ great. 7. Of the Means for keeping Fractures reduced. After the bones have been put into their natural situation, time alone would complete their cure, were there not in the muscles a con- tinual propensity to displace the ends of the fracture again. In cases of fracture, these or- gans are often affected with involuntary spas- modic action, bv which the broken part would certainly be displaced, were no measures taken to maintain the extremities of the broken bone in contact. Besides, the patient in easing him- self, coughing, sneezing, &c. must unavoid.,,’K subject the limb to a degree of motion by which the coaptation would be altogether destroyed. Hence, the necessity of employing means for fixing the broken limb so effectually, that it may continue perfectly motionless during the whole time requisite for the union of the fracture. This second indication is sometimes trouble- some and difficult, and, as Boyer observes, it is in this part of the treatment, that the surgeon has an opportunity of evincing his skill ami ex* pericnce. The means employed for the fulfil- ment of this indication are: an advantageous position ; quietude ; bandages ; splints ; an various kinds of apparatus. In the treatment of all fractures, the position of the part, and indeed of the whole body, ,s a thing of material importance. Whenever t e case is a fracture of the lower cxtremities> e