31 AMAUROSIS. amaurosis, in which all the characteristic symp- toms of the three preceding cases are more or less combined. (See Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 478.) Professor Beer’s First Specks of Amaurosis. The genuine uncomplicated amaurosis, consist- ing of a mere diminution or loss of sight, with- out the appearance of any other defect, is one of the most uncommon forms of complaint, not only because singly operating causes are few, but be- cause they can rarely operate directly upon the optic nerves. In the true uncomplicated amaurosis, merely the vital qualities of the optic nerve and retina are affected, and after death, nothing preterna- tural can he traced in those parts, either within or on the outside of the eye-ball. It is in short the case, in which the functions of the retina.have become imperfect, or destroyed, the eye appear- ing in other respects sound. According to Beer, this simple unmixed form of amaurosis is subdivisible into that amaurotic weakness of sight, or blindness, which depends upon the vitality, or rather sensibility of the optic nerve and retina being too highly raised, and into another case, the proximate cause of which is peculiarly and entirely referrible to de- pression of such vitality or sensibility. The first example is much less common than the second. The general symptoms of the simple uncom- plicated species of amaurosis, putting out of consi- deration the morbid increase, or diminution of the sensibility of the optic nerve, are thus described by Professor Beer. In the first place, all morbid appearances are absent, which might be produced in the amaurotic eye by any one preternatural change in the texture, form, or state of that organ. Hence we are obliged to trust almost exclusively to the patient’s assertion, that hi's sight is bad, or quite gone; and not unfrequently, it is necessary, especially injudicial cases, to em- ploy political artifices, in order to determine whether such assertion be true, particularly when the patient affirms that the blindness is restricted to one eye. Secondly; when the amaurosis is in- deed nearly, or quite formed in one eye, a slight degree of strabismus is at most perceptible, arising from the circumstance of the patient’s not fixing the eye affected upon any object. This degree of strabismus is noticed by Ackermann and Fischer, as the surest sign of amaurosis. (See Klmische Armalen von Jena 1st. p. 144.) And it is particularly pointed out by Richter, as an invariable attendant upon amaurosis. The patient, says he, not only does not turn either eye towards any object, in such a manner, that the object looked at is in the axis of vision ; but, ■>e does not. turn both his eyes towards the same thing. This was regarded by Richter, as the only symptom, which we can trust, where im- plicit confidence should not be put in the mere assurance of the patient, that he cannot see, w 1 e all the coats and humours of the eyes pre- *fnt their natural appearance. (See Anfangsgr. <kr It undarzn. B. 3. Knp. 1 4.) Provided this otwervation be correct, it must be highly interest- g to the military surgeon, amaurosis being a toon affliction of soldiers, many of whom, however, endeavour to avoid service by pretend- ing to labour under a disqualification, which they well know does not necessarily produce any very considerable alteration in the natural appearance of the part affected. Thirdly; while the disorder is only in the stage of amblyopia, the patient always complains of continually multiplying mus- cse volitantes, or of the visus reticulatus, or ne- bulosus. Fourthly; luminous forms appear be- fore the eyes, especially in the dark, even when the patient is entirely blind. Fifthly; the de- crease of vision goes on to complete blindness, without any material interruption, or retrogres- sion. Sixthly; when only one eye is quite blind, and the eyesight on the other side is perfectly un- disturbed, there is one infallible symptom of this amaurosis, namely, if the sound eye be very care- fully covered, the pupil of the blind one imme- diately expands, and the iris becomes quite mution- less, notwithstanding the diseased eye be exposed to the strongest light possible. However, this crite- rion is mostly wanting, because the amaurosis, which is attended with no appearance of defect, except loss of vision, is seldom confined to one eye, but usually affects both. (See Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 481-82.) 1. Of the genuine uncomplicated amaurosis, dependent upon, what Beer terms preternaturally high vitality, or rather, as we should say, a mor- bid increase of sensibility of the optic nerve. This form of amaurosis is described by Beer as having two stages: in the first, the patient never becomes blind; the eye-sight being lost at the end of the second stage. This species of amau- rosis always forms with great quicknessy^o that the limits between the two stages are frequently very indistinct. The first stage commences with a peculiar sen- sation of fulness in the eye-ball, conjoined with continually increasing, violent, and annoying, luminous appearances, and a remarkable weak- ness of sight. These symptoms are soon followed by a stupifying constantly increasing headach, during which the power of vision manifestly dimi- nishes, without the slightest defect being percep- tible either in the eye itself, or its surrounding parts. The patient, however, is always marked by an athletic constitution, or at all events, by such symptoms of general and local plethora, and of a phlogistic diathesis, as cannot be mis- taken. Upon the advance of the disorder into its se- cond stage, the headach becomes irregular, being- less violent at some periods than others; the patient feels as if there were before his eyes, a thick net, or gauze, which, in a bright light, appears quite black, but in the shade, fiery and shining. This net or gauze, when there is any temporary determination of blood to the head and eyes, as in straining at stool, is immediately rendered considerably more dense; and when such determination of blood is often repeated, or long maintained, the density at length remains much greater than before, and, consequently, the patient suddenly grows more blind, and is very quickly quite bereft of vision. This complete loss of sight, in the second stage, if efficient as- sistance be not given, is ultimately produced by the progress of the disease, even without any aeci-