693 INF INC constriction, and even the danger in which life is placed. ... Were there the least chance of restoring, m un- decree, the transparency of the cornea, and the functions of the organs of vision, after open- ing the cornea, Scarpa acknowledges, that it would certainly be more prudent to make the opening at the lower part ot this membiane. But, in the case of empyema of the eye, now considered, in which the cornea is universally menaced with ulceration and opacity, and seems ready to slough, there can be no hope of its re- suming its transparency at any point, and he therefore deems it the best, and most expe- ditious, method of relief to divide its centre with a small bistoury to the extent of a line and a half; and then to raise with a pair of forceps the little ■ flap, and cut it away all round with one stroke ol the scissors, so as to let the humours escape, with- out any pressure. The eve is to be covered with a bread and milk poultice, which is to be renewed every two hours, the use of such general remedies, as are calcu- . lated to check the progress of acute inflamma- tion, and to quiet the nervous system, not being omitted. In proportion as the interior of the eye suppurates, the eye-ball gradually diminishes, shrinks into the orbit, and at length cicatrizes, ■_ leaving things in a favourable state for the appli- cation of an artificial eye. When Scarpa delivers his opinion, that in the above aggravated form of hypopium, there can be no chance of the cornea resuming its transpa- rency at any point, I think his assertion rather .imprudent. Nor. admitting its general truth, i Joes it follow, as a matter of course, that it is ne- cessary and right to cut away a piece of the centre >f the cornea, and absolutely destroy whatever little chance may yet be left of saving the eye- In support of this remark, let me contrast what Mr. Travers has said with the advice of Scarpa. “ When the hypopium is so large as to rise to- wards the pupil, and the ulceration of the cornea is extending, I think its discharge by section near its margin advisable. If not too long delayed, the ulcerative process is checked by it, which would otherwise run into sloughing, and the cornea recover with only partial opacity and disfigurement." (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 280.) Maucliart dc Hypopyo. Tubingen, 1742. C. P. Leporin, de Hypopyo. 4to. Goett. 1778. Goeldlin, Diss. de Hypopyo. Erlang. 1810. Walther Merkwilrdige Hcilung eines Eiter- auges, S[c. '6vn. Land-shut, 1819. I observe, that in Hufeland and Himtey’s Journal for Octob. 1809, p. 93, there is an account of the treat- ment of an hypopium, or case of effused lymph in the chambers of the eye, by exhibiting from 12 to 18 grains of the sub muriate of mercury, in the space of 12 hours, and tlic-n giving bark, while as an external application the tinet. opii crocat. was employed. Thus we see, that the efficacy of mercury in checking the effusion of lymph in the eye, and promoting an absorption, has been kruMn many years in Germany. A Scarpa Saggio di Osservazioni e cf Esperienzc, sidle Priucipali Malattic degli Ocelli ; Vcne- zia, 1802. Richter Anfangsgrundc der Wun- darzneykuust, B. 3. 1795. J. IVardrop, Es- says on the morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Chape 6. Edinb. 1808. ' HYSTEROTOM1 A. (from uV-r^or, the womb, and te^vw, to cut.) See Casarcan Ope- ration. I. I M PE II FOB ATE HYMEN. (See Va- gina. ) INCARCERATION. This term is usually .pplied to cases of hernia, in the same sense as I : trangulation. When the viscera are pressed j .pon either by the opening through which they | rotrude, or by the parts themselves within the ;; ernial sac, in such a degree, that the course of he intestinal matter to the anus is obstructed, ! nd nausea, sickness, pain, and tension of the welling and abdomen, &c. are occasioned, the upture is said to be in a state of incarceration, or trangulation. According to Professor Scarpa, however, an narccrated, and a strangulated hernia, do not Inply exactly the same thing. In the first case, lyshe, tiie course of the intestinal matter is in- .•rrupted, without any considerable impairment f the texture, or vitality of the bowel. On the ontrary, in the strangulated hernia, besides the hstruction to the course of tbe fecal matter, >cre is organic injury of the coats of the intes- ne» with loss of its vitality. The bowel, that merely incarcerated, resumes its functions im- icdiately it is replaced in the abdomen ; while , ia*., which is truly strangulated, never returns * to its natural state. (Trade des Hcrnics, p. 251.) This distinction, however, is by no means ge- nerally adopted. INCONTINENCE -OF URINE. See Urine, Incontinence of. INFLAMMATION, (from injlamnw, to burn.) By the term, inflammation, is generally understood, the state of a part, in which it is painful, hotter, redder, and somewhat more tur- gid, than it naturally is; which topical sym- ptoms, when present in any considerable degree, or when they affect very sensible parts, arc at- tended with fever, or a general disturbance of the system. (Burns.) The susceptibility of the body for inflamma- tion is of two kinds; the one original, constitut- ing a part of the animal economy, and beyond the reach of human investigation ; the other ac- quired from the influence ol climate, habits ol life, and state of the mind over the constitution. (Hunter.) The first kind of susceptibility, being innate, cannot be diminished by art; the second may be lessened by the mere avoidance ol the particular causes, upon which it depends. Inflammation may, with great propriety, he