864 (ESO OLE returns at interval's, and lasts a considerable time, even when po effort is made to swallow. If a bougie of proper size be introduced down the pharynx, it will often be stopped by the stricture just behind the thyroid, or cricoid car- tilage ; for, from Sir Everard Home’s remarks, it appears that the obstruction is generally as high up as this situation. However, there are other cases, in which the obstruction is only of a spasmodic nature, and in these a bougie may be passed quite down. It is curious, that strictures high up in the oesophagus, often occasion ulcera- tion in this tube very low down towards the sto- mach, just as strictures in the urethra occasion ul- ceration in that passage towards the bladder. This is most apt to occur, when strictures of the oeso- phagus have been of long continuance, and may arise from the efforts in retching, which fre- quently come on, and must strain the parts already deprived of their natural actions, and of the benefit of the secretions, with which they are lubricated in a healthy state. When such ulcera- tion takes place, the characters of the original disease are lost; and when the ulceration ex- tends upwards, the stricture itself may be de- stroyed. A bougie, introduced under such cir- cumstances, will, in general, have its point en- tangled in the ulcer; and when so skilfully directed as to go down into the oesophagus, it will meet with a difficulty while it is passing the commencement of the ulcerated part of the oeso- phagus, and another impediment where it leaves the ulcer, and enters the sound portion of the oesophagus below. These two resistances may lead to the supposition, that there are two stric- tures, while in fact there is not one, only ulcera- tion as above described. Strictures in the oesophagus are sometimes so complete, that swallowing even fluids is utterly prevented; the patient is obliged to have all nourishment injected infra anum, and in gene- ral, soon perishes in a most emaciated con- dition. Though any part of the oesophagus is liable to the kind of contractions forming strictures, the part immediately behind the cricoid cartilage, where the pharynx ends, and the oesophagus begins, is the most frequent seat of the obstruc- tion. Those which are situated further down do not so easily admit of being examined, and relieved by any surgical operation. Strictures of the oesophagus occupy very little extent of the passage, consist of a transverse fold of the inter- nal membrane, and are attended with little thick- ening of the adjacent parts. These latter cir- cumstances are such as render the disease capa- ble of receiving relief either from simple or armed bougies. There are two other diseases of the oesophagus, which have symptoms similar to those of stric- tures. One is a thickening of the coats of the oesophagus, which extends to the surrounding parts, and generally ends in a cancer, or an in- curable disease. The other affection is an ulcer of the lining of the passage, commonly situated a lit tie below the seat of the stricture, on the back part of the tube. In the early state, these diseases can only be distinguished irom a stric- ture, bv an examination with a bougie; after- wards their nature becomes clear enough from other symptoms which arise. Strictures also*! take place more commonly in young subjects j| the other two diseases in the more advanced.' periods of life. Sir E. Home has found, that a bougie can brtt more easily introduced into the oesophagus, wheril the tongue is brought forwards out of the mouth. This gentleman remarks, that when a bougie id passed, with a view of learning the nature of thd case, if it passes down to the distance of eight inches, measuring from the cutting edge of. thd front teeth in the upper jaw, its extremity haa gone beyond the usual seat of stricture. If it be withdrawn without any resistance, the aper. ture in the oesophagus must then be larger that* ; | the bougie employed. But if the bougie stops at the distance of six inches and a half, or even lower, it must be retained there with a uniform pressure for half a minute, so as to receive on its point an impression of the surface by which itt was opposed. If the end of the bougie retains rj its natural form, or nearly so, and there is am indentation on one side of it, or all round it, the surgeon may conclude there is a stricture- On the other hand, should the bougie descend without impediment, as far as seven inches and a. half, and, when withdrawn, the surface of its: point appear irregular, and jagged, the disease is an ulcer on the posterior part of the (Esophagus. The mode of treatment, adopted by Sir E. Home, consists either in passing a common bou- gie occasionally through the stricture, and em- ploying one of a larger size, in proportion as the dilatation of the obstruction is effected; or else in introducing an armed bougie at convenient intervals. The views, which I take of the dis- ease, would lead me to prefer giving a full and fair trial to the employment of elastic gum-ca- theters. Consult Practical Observations on the Treatment of Strictures in the Urethra and (Esophagus^ 3 Vols. Edit. 3, 1805, Vol. 2, 1803, and Vol. 3, 1821, by Sir E. Home. Pit. H. Beuttcl dc Struma (Esophagi; hnjusqnc coalitu difficili ac abolitcc deglulitionis Causis: (in Haller'sDisp. Chir. 2,395,) Tubing. 1742, Mauchart dc Struma (Esophagi, Tubing. 1742. J. Warner, Cases in Surgery, p. 130, Ed. 4. F. A. J. ZinckernageU dc Clystcrum Nutricntum Antiquitate, ct Usu, (TriUcri Opnsc. 1, 399.) A. Voter, ct F. A. Zinckcr- nagcl de Deglutitionis difficilis ct impeditar Morh. 1, lethali ex ^ . ct impeditee causis ahditis: (Hallcri Disp. ad 577.) E. F. Bulisius de Fame callosa oris ventriculi august ia. J. M. Ec- cardus, dc his qui din vivunt sine alimento, 4to. Kilicc Holsat. 1711. Boyer Traitc dc Mai Chir. T. 7, 8rO. Paris, 1821. OLEUM CAMPHORATUM R. Olei olivae. jj-j. Camphoric ^iv. Misce ut solva- tur eamphora. Sometimes employed for pro- moting the suppuration of indolent, particularly scrophulous swellings, which are to be rubbed with it once, twice, or thrice a day, according to circumstances. OLEUM LINI. In surgery, linseed oil is sometimes used as an application to burns, cither alone, or mixed with an equal quantity of the liquor calcis. It has also been applied to can- cerous ulcers. OLEUM ORIGANI. The oil of marjoram