I 798 MAMMA. seton in its place. A pledget of mild ointment is then to be applied over the two openings, the more completely to exclude the air. A fresh piece of the silk is to be drawn into the abscess, and that which was in before cut o!F, as often as necessary. (See Latta's System of Surgery, Vol. 3, p. 307.) Mr. Crowther states, that Deckers, who wrote in 1696', discharged a large abscess, in a gradual manner, with a trocar, the cannula of which was not withdrawn, but was stopped up with a cork, and the latter let out at intervals. B. Bell also advises the cannula not to be taken out. I cannot quit this subject without mentioning a remarkable case of lumbar abscess, which I once saw in Christ’s Hospital, under the care of the late Mr. Ramsden. The tumor extended from the ilium and sacrum below, as high up as the ribs. The diameter of the swelling, from behind forward, might be about six or eight inches. It was attended with so strong a pulsation, cor- responding with that of the arteries, that several eminent surgeons in this city considered the case as an aneurism of the aorta. After some weeks, as the tumor increased in size, the throbbing of the whole swelling gradually became fainter and fainter, and, at length, could not be felt at all. The tumor was nearly on the point of bursting. Mr. Ramsden suspected, that it was an abscess, and determined to make a small puncture in it. The experiment verified the accuracy of his opinion; a large quantity of pus was evacuated at intervals; but, the boy’s health suffering, he went to his friends at Newbury, and I did not afterwards hear the event. I have never seen any popliteal aneurism, whose pulsations could be more plainly seen and strongly felt, than those of the abscess we have just been describing. A singular case is related by Mr. Wilrnot of a psoas abscess, the matter of which was at length absorbed, and its cavity filled with air, attended with a considerable increase in the size of the tumor, a conical elongated shape, and elastic feel, instead of a fluctuation, previously quite evident, and the subsidence of all the hectical symptoms. A complete dispersion of the swell- ing was effected by a bandage and compress wet with a strong decoction of oak bark and alum. (See Trans, of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland, Vol. 2, p. 26, 87>0 Dublin, 1818. F. Schocnmezel, Ohs. de Miisculis Psoa et Iliaco suppuratis, Frank. Del. Op. V. R. Beckwith de Morbo Psoadieo. Edinb. 1784. Aberncthy's Surgical and Pliv-- siological Essays, Part 1 and 2. Crowther's Observations on White Swelling, <|c. 1808. Latta's System of Surgery, Vol. 3. Calliscn s Systema Chirnrgice Ilodicrnce, Vol. I, p. 870. Pearson s Principles of Surgery, p. 102, Edit. 2. Richter's Anfangsgrundc dcr Wundarz- neyknust, B. 5, 113, Gottingen, 1801.) LUNAR CAUSTIC. (See Argentum Ni- tratum.) LUPUS. See Noli me tangerc. LUXATION. See Dislocation. AMMA, REMOVAL OF. The ope- ration of cutting away a diseased breast, is done nearly in the same manner as the removal of tumors in general, and is indicated whenever the part is affected with an incurable disease, which admits, however, of being entirely removed with the knife. When the breast is affected with scirrhus, or ulcerated cancer, the imprudence of tampering with the disease cannot be too se- verely censured. Were the disorder unattended with a continual tendency to increase, some time might properly be dedicated to the trial of the internal remedies, and external appli- cations, which have acquired any character for doing good in these unpromising cases. But, unfortunately, by endeavouring to cure the dis- ease by medicine, we only afford time for it to increase in magnitude, and, at length, attain a condition, in which even the knife cannot be employed so as to take away the whole of the diseased parts. When the case is marked by the characteristic features of scirrhus, noticed in the article Cancer, the sooner the tumor is cut out, the better. There are also some malignant kinds of sarcoma, to which the female breast is subject, (as will be explained in the article I uvwr,') which cannot be removed at too early a period after their nature is suspected, or known. Indeed, though there is not equal urgency for the opera- tion when the tumor is only an indolent, simple, f'jUv. nr cnri mnmn 11 disease. VCt US all tllCSe tumors are continually growing larger, and little success attends the attempt to disperse them, the practitioner should never devote much time to the trial of unavailing medicines and applications, and let the swelling attain a size, which would require a formidable operation for its excision. Besides, many simple, fleshy, indolent tumors, are accompanied with a certain degree of hazard of changing into very malignant forms of disease. It is not meant to be denied, however, there are rnanv swellings and indurations of the breast, which it would be highly injudicious and unne- cessary to extirpate, because they generally admit of being discussed. Such are many tumors, which are called scrophnlons, from their affecting patients of this peculiar constitution ; such are nearlv all those indurations, which remain after a sudden and general inflammatory enlargement of the mamma; such are most other tumors, which acquire their full size in a few clays, at- tended with pain, redness, &c.; and, of this kind, also, are the hardnesses in the breast, occa- sioned by the mammary abscess. In the removal of all malignant or cancerous tumors, their nature makes it necessary to ob- serve one important caution in the operation, viz. not to rest satisfied with cutting away the tumors just at their circumference; but to take away also a considerable portion of the substance, in which tbev lie, and with which they arc surrounded. In cutting out a cancerous breast, if the ope-