URINE, RETENTION OF. 1122 of a scalding sensation in the passage; lie ex- periences a great deal of smarting, which is sometimes insupportable, when he makes water; the penis becomes in some degree swollen, and more tender; and a very little pressure on the urethra gives acute pain. In the mean lime, the stream of urine becomes lessened; and, at length, this fluid can only be voided in a very narrow current, or only by drops, and often not at all. The disorder is to be treated on antiphlogistic principles. Diluting, cooling, mucilaginous, beverages; venesection; leeches to the peri- nacum; the warm bath ; opium, particularly in the form of clysters, and fomentations, are the means, which usually give relief. When inflam- mation exists in the urethra, it is always de- sirable to avoid, as long as possible, the employ- ment of catheters, which create irritation, and of course increase the cause of the retention. It is particularly, in cases of this description, and in the retentions of urine, arising from strictures, that Mr. Earle has suggested the use of tobacco in the form of clysters; a method, deserving adoption when the means above enumerated are unavailing, and it is preferable to the catheter, because it does not cause any increase of irrita- tion and inflammation in the urethra. (See Med. Chb\ Trans, vol. 6, p 8'2, <${c. 11. Retention of Urine from Laceration of the Urethra. The urethra is sometimes rup- tured by violent contusions on the perinteum; and the rough and unskilful use of bougies and catheters. The consequences usually are an extravasation of urine in the cellular membrane of the scrotum and penis ; a considerable dark co- loured swelling of these parts, often followed by sloughing; and retention of urine. The treat- ment consists in introducing an elastic gum ca- theter into the bladder, with as little delay as possible, and keeping it there, until the breach in the canal is repaired. At the same time, the evils, threatened from the effusion of the urine, are to be lessened as much as possible, by making two or three free incisions in a depending part of the swelling, and the employment of fomenta- tions, and antiphlogistic remedies. 12 .Retention of Urine from Tumors situated in the Pcrinveum, Scrotum, or Penis. A re- tention of urine has been known to arise from phlegmonous swellings and abscesses; extravasa- tions of blood; and urinary tumors and calculi formed in the perinasum, and scrotum ; also from the pressure of a sarcocele; hydrocele; a very large scrotal hernia; an aneurism of the corpus cavernosum; a ligature on the penis; <kc- The radical cure of all such retentions of urine, can only be accomplished by curing the disease, on which they are dependent. How- ever, until the cause can be obviated, the urinC must be drawn off with a catheter. Elastic gum catheters usually enter more easily, than those made of silver, as by their flexibility they accom- modate themselves better to any deviation of the urethra from its ordinary direction. Desault particularly recommended a catheter of middling size to be selected, and introduced armed with its stilet, until it stops in the canal; when lie ad- vised withdrnwiruT the stilet for about an inch, in urethra. Then the tube and the stilet are to he pushed further into the canal, care being taken, however, to keep the stilet drawn back some distance from the extremity of the instrument. By these precautions, says Desault, the catheter may always be got into the bladder. Should the introduction prove neither painful, nor difficult, Desault thought it better not to annoy the pa- tient by making him continually wear the instru- ment. 13. Retention of Uriite from Disease of the. Prostate Gland. As a great deal has been said, concerning this case in a foregoing article (See Prostate Gland), I shall riot here detain the reader long upon the subject. When the swelling of the prostate gland is of an inflammatory kind, the retention of urine makes its appearance with the same kind of symptoms, as attend inflammation about the neck of the bladder. Here, similar treatment to that commonly | adopted for the retention of urine produced in ; the latter case, is indicated ; particularly bleed- ing, fomentations, the warm bath, opening medi- cines, anodyne clysters, the tinctura ferri muri- ! ati, and, in very obstinate urgent cases, an enema I of tobacco. If these means fail, the surgeon may gently endeavour to introduce an elastic! gum catheter. The symptoms of the retention of urine,f caused by chronic enlargement of the prostate; gland, and the reason of the impediment to thei discharge of that fluid, in such a case, are ex-* plained in another part of this work. (See 94 1, £c.) From the remarks there introduced, ini appears, that, when the regular evacuation of the |j urine begins to be impeded, the catheter becomealL indispensable, though the surgeon will often bafli foiled in his endeavour to draw off the urin«|f with it, unless he be duly acquainted with the* morbid changes produced in the parts. And, asij? Sabatier long ago very correctly observed, tha urine may not be discharged, though the instruj ment enter a considerable way, either because iti beak becomes entangled in the prostate gland, o» between a swollen portion of this gland and thi ifc neck of the bladder, and does not reach tin if urine. ' Hence, Sabatier recommended the emj 4 ployment of a catheter with a very long beali ( which should also be bent considerably upwardj 4 When, however, all efforts to pass a eaihetil f fail, the only resources are to force a passau r: with a conical catheter, as explained at p. 331, 4 fl to puncture the bladder above the pubes. (&I j Bladder, Puncture of.) In this case, the oped i tion should never be done through the perina-urj j* or rectum, as the great size, which the disease prostate .gland sometimes attains, would be obstacle to making a puncture in either of the; situations. Puncturing the bladder, howev is only a temporary means of relief, and, unti catheter can be passed quite into the bladder, t cannula of the trocar should not be withdrawn] The objections to leaving the cannula in t wound any considerable time, are, the irritati of the extraneous body; the fear of calcul incrustations forming both on the outside a inside of the cannula ; and the hazard of i|j beinn able to find the track into the bladder ag-if