1134 VARICOSE VEINS. mor in her neck, which burst anil proved fatal by hemorrhage. A sac proceeded from the internal jugular vein ; the carotid artery was lodged in a groove at the posterior part of this sac. The veins of the upper extremity very rarely become varicose. Excepting cases of aneurismal varix, the only instance of this disease, with which I am acquainted, is mentioned by Petit. (Traite Acs Maladies Chir. Tom. 2, p. 49.) In this case, a varix was situated at the bend of the arm : the patient was so fat, that no other vein could be found for the purpose of venesection, which operation Petit repeatedly performed by punctu- ring this varix. The superficial epigastric veins sometimes become varicose, but, the most fre- quents eats of this disease are the venae saphenae, the spermatic, and hemorrhoidal veins.” (See Hodgson's Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 538-539.) The deep seated veins of the extremities seldom become varicose. The disease rarely occurs before the adult period of life, and its progress is extremely slow. It is very frequently remarked in pregnant women, who have passed a certain age ; but, it is parti- cularly unusual for it to happen in young women, even during a series of repeated pregnancies. Surgeons have not hitherto made out any very precise information, respecting the kinds of con- stitution, which promote the occurrence of a va- ricose enlargement of the veins. Nor has it been well proved, that the disease often proceeds from swellings of the abdominal viscera, or any other species of tumor capable of mechanically obstructing the venous circulation. One or more veins of the same limb are at first most commonly affected with a slight degree of dila- tation, without pain, or any sensation of uneasi- ness. This beginning change ordinarily ad- vances with great slowness, except in cases, where it accompanies pregnancy, in which circum- stance, one, or both the lower extremities, as early as the first months, are frequently seen covered with largely dilated veins, or even with tumors formed by an assemblage of varices. The veins gradually become more and more distended, lengthened, coiled up, and tortuous. The pa-, tient then begins to complain of a sense of heavi- ness, numbness, and sometimes of very acute wandering pain, through the whole of the affected limb. In a more advanced stage, in proportion as the varices increase, and especially when the dilated veins actually form tumors, the limb swells, and becomes more or less cedematous ac- cording to the extent of the disease, and the time which it has existed. Delpech thinks, however, that the oedema in this case is not such as to jus- tify the conclusion, that the increased size of the veins, and the way in which they distend the in- teguments, produce a mechanical interruption of the function of the absorbent system. For, says he, enormous varices are sometimes, though not often, met with, which are not attended with any swelling of the cellular substance; and cases are still more frequently seen, in which there is a con- siderable degree of oedema, while the varices are scarcely remarkable. When the latter have pre- vailed a long while, and made much progress, the coats of the affected veins are not unfre- 1 • • • » 1 11 1 1 indncnlnrl Ilodgson remarks, “ the blood occasionally de- posits strings of coagulum in varicose veins: when this is the case, the vessel is incapable of being emptied by pressure, and is firm to the touch. The deposition does not in general fill the vessel, but, by diminishing its calibre, it re- tards the flow of blood, and causes the dilatation to increase in the inferior portion of the vein, and in the branches, which open into it.” (On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 541.) This gentleman has seen four cases, in which the coa- gulum accumulated to such an extent, that the canals of the dilated vessels were obliterated, and a spontaneous cure was the consequence. The excessive distention of the coats of a superficial vein produces an inllammatory irritation, at first in the adjoining cellular membrane, and after- wards in the integuments. These organs be- come at first connected together by the adhesive inflammation ; and, if the distention continue to operate, they may at length ulcerate, and burst, and hemorrhage be the consequence. In such cases, the effusion of blood is sometimes con- siderable; but, says Delpech, we have no ex- ample of its having proved dangerous. The syncope following it, or a moderate compression, suffices for its stoppage. A more common oc* currence, than bleeding, is the coagulation of the blood in the cavity of a varicose vein. The ves- sel then becomes hard and imcompressible, and it loses that elastic yielding softness, which ren- ders it capable of being diminished by gentle pressure. If' the parts be already inflamed, Del- pech conceives, that the clot in the diseased vein may act as an extraneous body, and bring on ulceration, by the effects of which it is at last ft- brought into view. In this sort of case, it is ex- ft tremely uncommon for hemorrhage to occur; Iff for, in general, the vessel is already obliterated If by the preceding inflammation. But, the ulcer If itself is very difficult to heal, and maybe kept [if up a long while by the oedematous swelling of is the limb. Varices, or rather the oedema, which ft is the consequence of them, has the same effect ft" upon every other species of ulcer, and even upon If the most simple solution of continuity. While ft” the swelling of the limb cannot be dispersed; If while the edges of a solution of continuity are ft * kept asunder by the tense state of the skin; and ftn; while the divided parts are irritated by this pain- ;ft ; ful tension ; every thing is unfavourable to cica- If: • trization. Thus, we see the most simple wounds, It which have been allowed to suppurate, and ulcers, L which should have healed rapidly, continue un- By. cured a great many years, merely because the ft limbs, on which they are situated, are affected® with an cedematous swelling, the consequence varices. Such is the condition of things in theilf case, which has been improperly named the vari 4ft'. rose nicer. (Delpech, Precis des Jifaladic.ljp' Chir. Tom. 3, sect. 8, art. 3.) In the investigation of the causes of varicesjfev it is usual to dwell very much upon the meehaJB nical obstructions, which may affect the circulajftfv. tion of the blood in the veins. Surgeons hav«|f . thought themselves justified in regarding this a Iff the only cause, because a circular, moderate com ffe pression incontestably retards the course of thfjl ki ,w,.i tlioco voccpIs. nnH nrmliirps a fpinnnnHiK •