HERNIA. 6S1 therefore, In the male subject, lie advises cutting duce a considerable relaxation. But, if the re- the inner side of the opening, that is to say, duction should yet be impracticable, (the stran- Gimberaat’s, or the femoral ligament, directly gulation being at the inner opening of the canal) inwards towards the symphysis of the os pubis, then an attempt is to be made to insinuate the (Uehcr den Ur sprung, §c. der Lcisten-und- end of the finger through the constriction, a Schenkelbruche, p. 5-1.) When the epigastric, plan said to have answered very often in the or obturator, artery deviates from its usual practice of Surgeon-General Rust. Should the course, and surrounds the inner side of the neck of the hernia (which variety can never be ascer- tained a priori), a wound of the vessel Hessel- bach regards as unavoidable. From the views taken of femoral hernia in this article, I consider the unrestricted direction al- ways to cut Gimbernat’s ligament in the ope- ration perfectly erroneous. For, as Langen- beck has stated, the seat of strangulation may either be in the external aperture of the crural canal, or in an opening of the front or inner side of this passage, or in its inner opening, where then Gimbernat’s ligament is trulv concerned. When the strangulation is of the two first de- scriptions, only the fascia lata need be cut; but, in the third, most frequent case, the inner semilunar edge of the internal 6pening of the ring, must, of course, be divided. In all cases, says Lan- genbeck, whether the strangulation be caused by the inner or external opening of the crural canal, or by an aperture in the front parietes of this passage, the stricture must be cut inwards, as directing the cut in the least outwards would injure the epigastric artery. When it is per- ceived in the operation, that the neck of the her- nial sac is strangulated, close below and behind the external pillar of the abdominal ring, then the inner opening of the crural canal must be divided inwards, with the knife directed along the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, under the ex- ternal pillar of the ring, towards the symphysis of the pubes. If, in such a case, the knife were carried inwards and upwards, that part of Pou- part s ligament forming the upper side of the crural canal might be cut, and the spermatic artery injured. (NeucBibl. 2 B. p. 133.) Dr. Trusted; has published some remarks, in favour of employing dilatation, instead of an in- cision, in the operation for the strangulated crural hernia. Tie observes, that even when the common trunk of the obturatrix and epigastric arteries is shoft, the bowels may protrude under the first of these arteries, which will lie upon the upper and inner side of the hernia. In an ope- ration performed upon a woman, in la Charite, at Berlin, for a strangulated femoral hernia, the rrural ligament was divided in Gimbernat’s way by an incision, exactly parallel to the horizontal ramus of the os pubis, and the obturatrix artery was wounded. I he patient died eight days after the operation, having been previously attacked by trismus and'opisthotonos. On dissection, about six ounces of putrid blood were found in the lesser cavity of the pelvis, and the above artery cut. The vessel arose from the epigas- tric, ran over the upper edge of the inner open- ln« of the crural canal, or ring, and then de- scended along its inner edge, towards the ob- urator foramen. Ibis occasional course of the obturatrix artery leads Dr Trustedt to sug- gest the following rules: if, after the her- nia sac is opened, the bowels cannot be re- ''rn<;Vhe outer opening of the crural canal s lou d bc cut directly inwards, in order to pro- resistance be too great, however, for this method to succeed. Trustedt advises the crural ligament to be forcibly drawn inwards and upwards, towards the navel, with Arnaud’s tenaculum, assisted by the introduction of the finger, or with two hooks. When this plan fails, he recom- mends Schreger’s practice of dividing the ante- rior edge of Poupart’s ligament with a pair of blunt-pointed scissars, and then the use of Arnaud’s tenaculum again. ( See Rust's Ma~ gazin fur die gesammte Hcilkunde, B. 3, //. 2.) The consideration, however, which will ever prevent the common adoption of Dr. Triistedt’s suggestion is, that fifty times more lives would be lost by the mischief done to the protruded bowels by the forcible introduction of the fingers and hooks, than by hemorrhage from the obturatrix, or epigastric artery, when the course of the vessel is irregular. congenital heknia. Before the beginning of the sixth month of the foetal state, the testicle is situated near the kidney, where it receives a covering from the peritonaeum, just like the other abdominal viscera. Between the beginning of the sixth month, and end of the seventh, the testicle has either de- scended as low as just above the abdominal ring, or else is passing through it, or arrived a little below it. (Wrisberg. Comm. Reg. Societ. Gotting. 1785.) When the testicle passes through the abdo- minal ring into the scotum, it is received in a production of the peritonaeum, which afterwards constitutes the tunica vaginalis ; while that pe- ritoneal investment, which was given to the testicle in the loins, is closely adherent to this body, and forms what is named the tunica al- buginea. After the descent of the testicle into the scro- tum, the communication, between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis and that of the abdomen, commonly becomes obliterated, which latter event is usually effected before birth, sometimes not till afterwards, and in a few subjects, even as late as the adult state. In the congenital hernia, the protruded viscera are situated in the tunica vaginalis, in contact with the testicle: having descended into this position before the closure of the communication with the abdomen. Of course, the tunica va- ginalis itself is the hernial sac. The nature of this case was not understood, before it was elu- cidated by Haller in 1755, and the two Hunters in 17b'2 and 17Gd. (See Hunter's Med. Com- ment. ; Haller's Opuscula Patholug. and Opera Minora, T. 3.) Many particulars relating to the origin and formation of this hernia, having been described in the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, I shall not here repeat them. Be- fore the periods now named, surgeons imputed the circumstance of the contents ol the hernia and testicle being in contact, to the bowels