280 CARIES. ho internal constitutional disease, can be sus- pected to have produced the disorder, and where the affection can be removed by local means, ihe caries of the finger bones from whitlows, is quoted as a specimen of this form of the dis- ease. Perhaps, however, the case is general- ly rather an instance of necrosis; 3. from a general internal cause, or constitutional disease, in which cases, besides local remedies, it is ne- cessary to employ such medicines, as are cal- culated to obviate the particular affection of the system, whence the diseased state of the bone has originated. But, in addition to these general divisions of the subject, there are many circumstances, in re- lation to the varieties of caries, which may be Said yet to lie in obscurity. If, as a modern writer remarks, the situation of the bones, the naiure of their organization, and the slowness of their diseases, would let an attentive observer trace the formation, developement. and progress of caries, no doubt, there would be noticed a di- versity in its symptoms, corresponding to its dif- ferent species; and, probably, it would be found, that a venereal, or scrophulous caries would vary in its origin and progress, as much from a caries, from a purely local cause, as a venereal, or scro- phulous ulcer differs from the kind of ulceration, which follows a common abscess. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 4, p. 84.) The wurm-eaten caries, as it has been termed, which penetrates the whole substance of a bone, and gives it an appearance as if it had been bored in hundreds of places, is a very different affection from some other forms of the disease, whether superficial, or extended to the deeper texture of the bone affected. Abscesses situated in the vicinity of bones, are frequently thought to be the cause both of necrosis and caries. Hence, the rule, to open such abscesses at an early period, in order to prevent the bone from being affected. If some abscesses, like those which form over the ante- rior surface of the tibia, and mastoid process of the temporal bone, be frequently attended either with caries, or necrosis, the latter is mostly the cause, and not the effect, of the suppuration. Pus, which is a bland, unctuous, inodorous fluid, never attacks the soft parts, with which it is ill contact, until its qualities are changed by ex- posure to the air. When an abscess forms in the anterior part of»the parietes of the abdomen, the peritoneum of that part, naturally a thin mem- brane, instead of being destroyed, becomes thick and strong enough to resist the extension of the abscess towards the cavity of the abdo- men. So also, when an abscess is formed over a bone, not originally diseased, or hurt by the same causes, which produced the abscess, and not injured by being kept exposed, or by astringent escharotic applications, neither chries, nor necro- sis, is likely to happen. On the contrary, the periosteum, like the peritoneum, becomes thick- ened, and granulations are formed over it. The venereal disease is* sometimes a Cause of caries; sometimes of necrosis; and in other in- stances, of exostosis. When it attacks the bones of the nose, it generally renders them carious, and the face sadly disfigured. The bones of the palate arc sometimes altered in the same man- ner; but, cm other occasions, the 'elToct is ne- crosis. In cases of cancer of the breast, the sternum i and ribs are sometimes found carious. I believe,, I that, in such cases, the disease of the bones has f nothing in its own nature, entitling it to be re- ] garded as cancerous. It is a mere effect of the 1 original disorder, and if the carious bone could A be removed together with every particle of the dis- J ease of the soft parts, a cure would probably fol- [ low. Or. supposing the carious bone were the | only portion of the disease left, it is conceivable, ,1 that the case might yet end in a cure. Caries, arising from syphilis, most commonlyit affects the tibia, cranium, ossa nasi, ossa palati,,! and sternum. A caries of the vertebrae is known by peculiar ! symptoms, among which a paralysis of the infe- I rior extremities, and lumbar abscesses, are the1 L most remarkable. Caries from an external, or from a local inter- ^ nal cause, is less dangerous than that, which pro-[I ceeds from a constitutional disease, particularly,,I when the latter is difficult of cure. A caries of the spongy part of bones is more 1 difficult to cure, than a similar affection of their l compact parts. Caries of the carpal and tarsal | bones is particularly obstinate. These bones being'■ I in close contact, the affection cannot easily be i prevented from spreading from one to the other. | | Amputation is often the only means of cure.. p The same is frequently the case, when the spongy M heads of the long bones forming the large joints, II become carious. Even this mode of relief is not || practicable wdien the head of the bone lies very || deeply, like that of the os femoris. Caries of the ossa ilium, is also observed to be j l particularly difficult of removal. Caries from scrophula is more difficult of cure, [1 than that from syphilis, and scurvy; for, some la efficacious remedies against the latter diseases are | | known ; but scrophula cannot be said to be with- '; in the reach of medicine. The prognosis is less favourable in old, than young subjects, and much b depends on the extent of the disease, the patient’s : strength, and the state of the soft parts. When caries arises from constitutional disease, j i internal remedies are of course indicated. Thus i. i mercurial and sudorific medicines put a stop to caries from syphilis; while, vegetable diet, and |j acids, cure both the scurvy, and the caries de- pendent on it. According to writers, the indications in the treatment of caries are; either to produce a change in the action of the diseased portion of bone, whereby it may regain a healthy state; or to destroy it altogether. In the caries from constitutional causes, the first object seems to be brought about by the ope- , ration of such remedies as remove the original ; disease; and, I should much doubt, whether, in these cases, any very active local treatment is necessary, or free from objection. Of course, this remark is meant to apply only to examples, jn which we possess some medicine, or plan, which is known to be a tolerably sure remedy for the general disease. This is not the case in carie* from scrophula, and here issues, blisters, *B* other local means are unquestionably advan- tageous. (See Jnin/s and Vertebra.) But, sur- geons have proceeded further, and. not content with issues, blisters, fomentations, &c. as meat1 for quickening the action of the diseased