448 FOR distinguishes the man of experience as remark- ably, perhaps, as any quality that can be specified. When the collection of fluid is very deeply situated, the fluctuation is frequently exceedingly obscure, and sometimes not at all distinguishable. In this circumstance, the presence of the fluid is to be ascertained by the consideration of other symptoms. For example, in cases of hydrops pectoris and empyema, surgeons do not expect to feel the undulation of the fluid in the thorax with their lingers; they consider the patient’s difficulty of breathing, the uneasiness attending his lying upon one particular side, the oedema of the parietes of the chest, the dropsical affection of other parts, the more raised and arched posi- tion of the ribs on the affected side, the preceding rigors, fever, and several other circumstances, from which a judgment is formed, both with re- gard to the presence and the peculiar nature of the fluid. FOMENTATION. By a fomentation, sur- geons commonly mean the application of flan- nel or towels, wet with warm water, or some medicinal decoction. In the practice of surgery, fomentations are chiefly of use in relieving pain, and inflammation, and in promoting suppuration, when this is desirable. Some particular decoc- tions, however, are used for fomentations, with a view of affecting by means of their medicinal qualities, scrofulous, cancerous, and other sores, of a specific nature. I shall merely subjoin a few of the most useful fomentations in common use. FOMENTUM AMMONITE MURIATiE. R. Fomenti Communis jjjij. Ammon. Mur. ^j. Spirit. Camph. ^ij. Just before using the hot decoction, add to it the ammonia muriata, and spirit. Said to be of service to some indolent ulcers; and, perhaps, it might be of use in promoting the absorption of some tumors, and suppuration in others. FOMENTUM CHAMiEMELI. fy. Lini contusi ^j. Chamtemeli f’ij. Aq. Distillat. Jfyvj. Paulisper coque, et cola. A fomentation in very common use. FOMENTUM CONII. R. Fob Conii. recent. jj=,j. vel. Fol. Conii. exsiccat. ^iij. Aq. Comm, ffjiij. Coque usque reman. ]Ri. et cola. Sometimes applied to scrofulous, cancer- ous, and phagedenic ulcers. FOMENTUM GALLiE. R. Galke Con- tusse <jss. Aq. Ferventis jjjij. Macera per horamj et cola. Used for the prolapsus ani, and sometimes employed, as a cold application, in cases of hemorrhoids. FOMENTUM PAPAVERIS ALBI. R. Papav. Alb. Exsiccati ^iv. Aq. Pur. Rvj. Bruise the poppies, put them in the water, and boil the liquor, till only a quart remains, which is to be strained. This fomentation is an ex- cellent one, for very painful inflammations of the eyes, and for numerous ulcers, and other dis- eases, attended with intolerable pain. FORCEPS, an instrument much employed in surgery for a variety of purposes, and having accordingly various constructions. The gene- ral design, however, of surgical forceps is to take hold of substances, which cannot be conve- niently grasped with the fingers; and, of course, the instrument is always formed on the principle of a pair of pincers, having two blades, either with,"or without handles, according to circum- FRA stances. The smallest forceps is that which is employed in the operation of extracting the cata- ract, and which is useful for removing any parti- cles of opaque matter from the pupil, after the chief part of the crystalline lens has been taken away. Another forceps, of larger size, is that used for taking up the mouths of the arteries, when these vessels require a ligature, in cases of hemorrhage. This instrument is also frequently employed for taking dressings off sores, removing pieces of dead bone, foreign bodies from wounds, and, particularly, for raising the fibres, which are about to be cut, in all operations, where careful dissection is required. This forceps re- sembles that, which is contained in every case of dissecting instruments, and is often called the artery, or dissecting forceps, from its more im- portant uses. Neither of the foregoing forceps is made with handles; each opens by its own elasticity; and the ends of the blades only come into contact, when pressed together by the surgeon. The following kinds of forceps are constructed with handles, by means of which they are both opened and shut: 1. Tiie common forceps, contained in every pocket-case of surgical instruments, and used for removing dressings from sores, extracting dead pieces of bone, foreign bodies, &c. 2. Larger forceps, employed for extracting polypi. 8. Forceps of different sizes and construc- tions, used in the operation of lithotomy, for taking the stone out of the bladder, or for break- ing the calculus, when it is too large to be ex- tracted in an entire state. FRACTURE, (fromfraiigo, to break.) Is a solution of continuity of one, or more bones, produced in general by external force; but oc- casionally, by the powerful action of muscles, as is often exemplified in the broken patella. The subject of fractures is so interesting a branch of surgery, and the accidents themselves so frequent and important, that the little which English surgeons have done for the improve- ment of this part of their profession cannot but cause equal surprize and regret, hi r. Pott, it is true, made many excellent observations on the treatment of fractures in general; and his re- marks on compound fractures in particular are in some respects the best which are extant; but what surgeon will now presume to defend the weak arguments, upon which he has founded the doctrine ofpaying unqualified attention to the relaxation of the muscles, as if this were an object, which should constantly supersede every other consideration, and invariably regulate the posture of the limb ? 1 have no hesitation in declaring my own belief, that the doctrine and practice recommended by Mr. Pott, in regard to fractured thighs, have done considerable harm, and the more so, as coming from a man, who was deservedly looked upon as one of the best and most experienced judges of surgical practice. Many a surgeon m this country implicitly believed everything. Mnc was asserted by so able a master, and the \ ei> observations, which some years ago were tore considered to be the glory of their author, an the pride of English surgery, are now exposed y the surgeons of neighbouring countries, as spe