ANEURISM. ' 175 done, the hemorrhage is violent; whereas, by The boundaries of the tumor appeared distinct, making the incisions beyond the diseased struc- some healthy cellular membrane surrounding it, tore, the flow of blood is much more moderate, which was traversed bv the blood vessels. On ( Med. Chir. Tran.'. Vnl. 9, p. 212.) In a few mevi pressure may be safely tried ; but, all attempts to get rid of a true aneurism by anastomosis by caustic, I should think by no means advisable. “ This aneurism, as Mr. John Bell observes, is a mere congeries of active vessels, which will not be cured by opening it; all attempts to ob- literate the disease with caustics, after a simple incision, have proved unsuccessful, nor does the interception of particular vessels, which lead to it, affect the tumor ; the.whole group of vessels must be extirpated. In varicose veins, or in aneurisms of individual arteries, or in extravasa- tions of blood, such as that produced under the scalp from blows upon the temporal artery, or in those aneurisms, produced in school-boys by pulling the hair, and, also, in those bloody effu- sions from blows on the head, which have a dis- tinct pulsation, the process of cutting up the varix, aneurism, or extravasation, enables you to obliterate the vessel and perform an easy cure. But, in this enlargement of innumerable small vessels, in this aneurism by anastomosis, the rule is, ‘ not to cut into, but to cut it out.’ These purple and ill-looking tumors, because they are large, beating, painful, covered with scabs, and bleeding, like a cancer in the last stage of ulcera- tion, have been but too often pronounced can- cers! incurable bleeding cancers ! and the re- marks, which I have made, while they tend, in some measure, to explain the nature and consequences of the disease, will remind you of various unhappy cases, where either partial inci- sions only had been practised, or the patient left entirely to his fate.” (Principles of Surgery, TV. 1.) The following case, recorded by Mr. Wardrop, affords a valuable illustration of the nature and structure of one form of this disease. A child was born with a very large subcutaneous naevus on the back part of the neck. It was of the form and size of half an ordinary orange. The tumor had been daily increasing, and, when Mr. War- drop saw it, ten days after 'birth, the skin had given way, and a profuse hemorrhage had taken place. The swelling was very soft and compressi- ble: squeezed in the hand, it yielded like a sponge, and was reducible to one third of its original size. On removing the pressure, how- ever, the tumor rapidly filled again, and the skin resumed its purple colour. “ Conceiving the im- mediate extirpation of the tumor the only chance ol saving the infant, (says Mr. Wardrop,) I re- moved it as expeditiously as possible, and made the incision of the integuments beyond the boundary of the tumor; aware of the danger of hemorrhage, where such tumors are cut into. So profuse, however, was the bleeding, that, though tuc whole mass was easily removed by a few incisions, the child expired. “ I’he tumor having been injected, by throw- ing coloured size into a few of the larger vessels, its intimate structure could be accurately ex- amined. Several of the vessels, which, from the iiuiess of their coats, appeared to be veins, were n a large size, and there was one sufficiently big full*11 m'1 a s'Zf>(l bougie.” This vessel was " ' a!' 'urge as the carotid artery of an infant. tracing these vessels to the diseased mass, they penetrated into a spongy structure, composed of numerous cells and canals, of a variety of forms and sizes, all of which were filled with the injec- tion, and communicated directly with the ramifi- cations of the vessels. These cells and canals had a smooth and polished surface, and, in some parts, resembled very much the cavities of the heart, fibres crossing them in various directions, like the columnae tendinere. The opening in the skin, through which the blood had escaped dur- ing life, communicated directly with one of the large cells, into which the largest vessel also passed. (Wardrop in Med. Chir. Tunis. TV. 9, p. 203.) In the section on carotid aneurisms, I have mentioned the cases, in which Mr. Travers and Mr. Dalrympie cured aneurisms by anastomosis in the orbit, by tying the common carotid artery. These facts prove, that aneurism by anastomosis, like many other diseases, sometimes admits of being cured, oil the principle of cutting off, or lessening, the supply of blood to the part affected. However, surgeons must not be too confident of being always able to cure the disease, by tying the main artery, from which tire swelling receives its supply of blood ; and the great cause of failure is the impossibility of preventing in some si- tuations the transmission of a considerable quan- tity of blood into the tumor, through the anasto- mosing vessels. In fact, every vessel, artery, and vein, around the disease, seems to be enlarged and turgid ; and the inosculations are so infinite, that no point of the circumference of the swelling can be imagined, which is free from them. Etienne Dumand was born with two small red marks on the antihelix of the right ear. Until the age of twelve years, the chief inconvenicncics were a sensation of itching about the part, occasional bleeding from it, and the greater size of this, than of the other ear. The disease now extended it- self over the whole antihelix, and to the helix and concha; and the upper part of the ear became twice as large as natural. Slight alternate dilata- tions and contractions began to be perceptible in the tumor; which was of a violet colour, and covered by very thin skin. Soon afterwards, am accidental motion of the patient’s hat, was suf- ficient to excite copious hemorrhages, which were difficult to suppress, and, at the same time, that they produced great weakness, caused a tempo- rary diminution of lire tumor and its pulsations. At length, the disease began to raise up the scalp for the distance of an inch around the meatus audi- torius, and tire hemorrhages to be more frequent nnd alarming. Pressure was next applied to the temporal, auricular, and occipital arteries; but, as the patient could not endure it, the two first of these vessels were tied, the only benefit from which was a slight diminution in the pulsation and bulk of the swelling. This treatment did not prevent the return of hemorrhage, and, therefore, forty-three days after the first operation, a liga- ture was applied to the occipital artery, which proceeding was equally ineffectual. As the disease continued to make progress, the patient entered the Hotol-Dicu, where, on the P.th of April, I H I S.