1199 WOUNDS. aring inspiration, first into the cavity of tlie tho- x, ami thence, through the inner opening of the ternal wound, into the cellular substance. I should have deemed it unnecessary to have id any thing in this part of the work, on the resent subject, and have contented myself with ferring to the article Emphysema, were not e cause of this symptom rather perplexing, id, did I not hope, that the following extract om Sir A. Haliiday’s publication will tend to cilitate the comprehension of these cases. This entleman mentions the following circumstances, ider which air may escape from the lungs, or nphysema arise. 1st. “ An injury or disease of the pleura pul- onalis, causing a wound or ulceration of that aembrane, and thus allowing the air to escape om the lungs, as in oblique external wounds, here the outer opening, and that of the pleura ostalis have healed, or closed up, and in ulcers : the surface of the lungs. lidly. “ The pleura pulmonalis, and pleura cos- dis, may be wounded or ulcerated, when there no external opening, as when the ends of actured ribs penetrate ihrough both into the ubstance of the lungs; and it is from this acci- ent, See. that emphysema most commonly takes lace. 3dly. “The common integuments of the pa- ietes of the chest, the intercostal muscles, and tie pleura costalis, may be wounded, while the leura pulmonalis and the lungs remain uninjured, 0 that the air admitted from without, and col- •- :cted in the cavity of the thorax, may be pressed Ho the cellular membrane, so as to occasion mphysema.” The same writer remarks, “that the lungs in he thorax, have often, and not unaptly, been ompared to a bladder in a close pair of bellows ; >ut if we suppose the bellows to be divided into wo compartments, and each of these to contain bladder, which mutually communicate with each ither, and with the external air, by means of a ube, which is exactly adapted to the nozzle of he bellows, and which admits the air only into I he cavity of the bladders, and not into the space, retwixt the bladders and bellows, we shall then lave a perfect representation of the mechanical itructure of the thorax. The bellows will repre- ;ent the thorax, divided in the middle by the ;mediastinum ; the bladders will represent the 1 ungs of the right and left sides ; and the tube, •which communicates with the bladders and with t he external air, will represent the trachea. The i only thing, which is wanting to render this me- chanical representation perfect, is, that the blad- ders should exactly fill the bellows, so as to leave too air betwixt them and the bellows.” It is explained by Sir A. Halliday, that when he handle of the bellows is lifted up, the bladders oecotne filled by the external air, which rushes in hrough the tube, which communicates with both of them. When the handle is depressed, the air is expelled again. In the like manner, the lungs ire filled with air, and emptied again when the capacity of the chest is enlarged by the inspira- tory muscles, and then diminished by the expira- tory ones. W hen emphysema arises from a wound, or ulceration of the pleura pulmonalis, on one side 01 the thorax, the case is nearlv the same as if made in one of the bladders, ; an opening were which opening would form a communication, as the same gentleman observes, with the bellows and bladder on one side. If this should happen, while the handle of the bellows is depressed, no sooner is the handle raised, than air rushes into the space, betwixt the bladder and bellows, and, on keeping up the handle a little while, the blad- der will become quite collapsed, and the place which it occupied, while distended, will now be occupied by the air. If now, says Sir A. Hal- liday, “ we attempt to force out the air, by de- pressing the handle of the bellows, we shall find that this cannot be done; for, there is no direct communication, between the bellows and the ex- ternal air; and, as the effused air presses equally on all parts of the collapsed bladder, it cannot escape ihrough it.” When the thorax is expanded in inspiration, the pressure is taken off the surface of the wounded lung, and the air, which now enters this organ, instead of distending its cells, passes through its wound into the space between the pleura pulmonalis, and pleura costalis. The lung will, indeed, be partially expanded, as long as inspiration on that side goes on; the more so, the smaller its wound is. At every expiration, however, when the thorax is diminished, the effused air will be compressed against the wounded lung; but none of the air, which has escaped, can re-enter the lung again ; “ because (as the preceding writer accurately remarks) the whole of the air, contained in the lung, must be forced out, and then the pressure (of the air) against every part of the collapsed lung being equal, will prevent its separating any part, so as to make a passage for itself into the trachea.” Thus fresh air accumulates at every inspiration in the space, between the pleurae, while none can escape from the same situation during expiration, and the quantity accumulated will, at last, equal that which is received into the other lung, during the most powerful inspiration. When the pleura pulmonalis, and pleura cos- lalis are both wounded, the same effusion of air between them continues from the above-men- tioned causes, till the lung collapses. When an attempt is now made to expire, the injured side of the thorax must continue distended, notwithstand- ing every effort of the patient. In this expiratory act, however, if the capacity of the thorax be diminished, and the air compressed, a part of it finds its way through the wound in the pleura costalis, into the common cellular substance of the parietes of the chest. The passage of air into the cavity of the thorax during the inspiration is, as Sir A. Halliday ob- serves, now more easy, than the return of that already effused in the cellular membrane, and con- sequently, the subcutaneous emphysema con- tinues to increase with a rapidity, which is re- markable, as long as the patient lives. To explain the origin of emphysema, in cases of wounds, which only enter the chest, and do not injure the lungs at all, this writer has recourse to the simile of the bellows and bladders. Were an opening made into the bellows, without inju- ring the contained bladders, and the access of air by this opening more free, than that by the noz- zle, communicating with the cavity of the blad- der, more air would enter by the opening, than