WOUNDS. 1217 repeated, and fifteen pints of the same bilious fluid were drawn off. Nine days afterwards, another puncture was made, and thirteen pints more let out; and six were discharged in ano- ther fortnight. From this period the boy went on well, and perfectly recovered under the use of light tonic medicines. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 330.) A previous accidental adhesion of the gall bladder to the peritoneum might also prevent the extravasation of bile, and its dangerous effects. (Cattisen, Syst. Chir. Hodicrna:, T. 1 ,p. 718.) According to Dr. Hennen, a deep wound of the liver is as fatal as if the heart itself was engaged. The slighter injuries are recoverable. He states, that the usual symptoms of a wound of the liver are yellowness of the skin and urine; derange- ment of the alimentary canal, and great and dis- tressing itching of the skin. The discharge from the wound is generally yellow and- glutinous; ■ though sometimes either serous, or likeunmixed bile. (Ok Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 429.) For some other interesting observations on wounds of the liver, I have great pleasure in re- ferring to the latter work. (See also Wedekind de Vulnere Hcpatis Curato, Jena, 1735 ; and Thomson's Report of Ohs. made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, Svo. 1816.) 4. Urine Urine being of a very fluid nature, may, like the bile, be extensively diffused in the abdomen, when the bladder is wounded at any part, connected with the peritoneum. If, in this kind of case, the urine be not drawn off with a catheter, so as to prevent its extravasation, the patient soon perishes. Many instances are re- corded of the bladder being injured even by gun- shot wounds, which were not mortal Wounds of the bladder are attended with a discharge of bloody urine and difficulty of making water. They are always dangerous cases, both on account of the risk of the effusion of so irritating a fluid in the abdomen, and of the chance of extravasation in the cellular membrane. Under proper treatment, however, they often ad- mit of cure. (See Gunshot Wounds.) If pos- sible, the effused fluid should be discharged by a depending posture, or suitable punctures, or in- cisions, and the recurrence of extravasation pre- vented by the introduction of a catheter, which is to be left in the urethra. The patient must also be allowed little drink. As for the tension and pain of the belly, the common attendants of a wounded bladder, they may be greatly relieved by the use of the warm bath, (Cattisen, T. 1, p. 719.) bleeding, low diet, and other antiphlo- gistic means not being omitted. Wounds of the Stomach.—As Dr. Hennen has observed, these cases are extremely dangerous, though not always mortal. “ Baron Percy calcu- lates, that, of twenty cases, four or five only have escaped; this, however, is a most favourable ave- rage.” Two cures of wounds of flic stomach are reported by Dr. Thomson. (Ohs. made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, <S r0 With re- spect to the chancesjof recovery,Dr. Hennen justly remarks, that, in the histories of the Bohemian, Prussian (I). Beckher de Cidlrivoro Prussiaco, 12mo. Lugd. 1638), and English “Cultri- sores,” in some of whom the knives have been cut out, and, in others, discharged spontaneously through the coats of the stomach and parietes ol the abdomen, are very encouraging. Ilevin has collected many instances of recovery both from incised and gun-shot wounds of the stomach. (Mem. de l'Acad, de Chir. T. 1.) But, according to Dr. Hennen, Ploucquet, in the articles “ Ventriculus ” and “ Pantophagi,’’ has brought together the largest number of cases. Dr. Hennen, also refers to Logiithorpc's Abridgment of the Phil. Trans. Vol. 6,p. 192, for instances, in which the stomach of a horse was wounded and sewed up, and the same prac- tice extended to the human subject, with success. It appears also from the “ Annales de Litera- ture,”&c. T. 2, by Kluyskens, from Schlichting’s “ Traumatologia,” and the “ Bulletin de la Fdculie," S[c. Tom. 5, p. 386, that wounds of the human stomach have been stitched with suc- cess in various cases of recent date. (See Hennen's Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 438.) As the latter author observes, wounds of the stomach not unfrequently become fistulous and remain open. In a case, recorded by Richerand, the fistula continued open nine years ; and in another instance, related by Ettmuller, ten years, (De Vulnere Ventriculi Programma, Lip. 1730.) And Wencker has detailed a case, in which the opening continued twenty-seven years. (See Halleri Dissert. Chir. Vol. 5, art. 19.) For farther information, connected with this subject, the reader may also consult, Jungen, de Lethalitate Vulncrum Ventriculi, Helmst. 1751; and Ludov. Horn, de Ventri- culi Ruptures, Svo. Bcrol. 1817. Also Med. Chir. Journ. Vol. 5, p. 72. Wounds of the Intestines.—The vomiting, of blood, or discharge of it by stool; the escape of fetid air, or'of intestinal matter, from the mouth of the wound; an empty collapsed state of a portion of bowel, protruded at the opening in the skin, are the common symptoms attending a wound of this kind. When the wound is situated in the protruded portion, it is obvious to the sur- geon’s eye ; but when it affects a part of the in- testinal canal within the abdomen, the nature of the case can be known only by a consideration of other symptoms. In addition to such as I have already described, there are some others, which ordinarily accompany wounds of the bowels; as, for instance, oppression about the praecordia, acute or griping pain in the belly, cold sweats, syncope, &c. But, unless the wounded intestine pro- trude, there is no practical good in knowing whether the bowel is injured or not, since, if it be in the abdomen, the treatment ought not to be materially different from that of a simple pe- netrating wound of the belly, unattended with a wound of any of the viscera. Large wounds of the small intestines, particularly, of the duodenum and jejunum, are attended with acute fever, anx- iety, paleness of the countenance, syncope, cold perspirations, a small, intermitting, tremulous pulse, and they frequently prove fatal. Injuries of the small intestines are also more often, than those of the large ones, followed by extravasation. A total division of the upper part of the intestinal canal, towards the pylorus, will deprive the body of the nourishment requisite for its support. If the chyle escape from the wound, the patient will die of a slow marasmus; and if it become ex- travasated, it will be likely to excite such irrita- tion as will prove fatal. The escape of excrement,