»*4 MORTIFICATION. with regard to the frequent spontaneous stoppage ol mortification iri cases in which no medicines whatever are used.” (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation^p. 56S.) 2. With respect to the external, or local treat- ment ol mortification, the first indication consists in removing, if possible, such external causes, as may have occasioned, or kept up the disorder; as the compression of bandages, ligatures, tu- mors; all irritating substances, &c. When mortification arises from inflammation, which still prevails in a considerable degree, it is evident, that the dead part itself only claims se- condary consideration, and that the principal de- sideratum is to prevent the mortification from spreading to the living circumference, by lessen- ing the inflammation present. Hence, under such circumstances, the application of linen, wet with the saturnine lotion, and the maintenance of a continued evaporation, from the inflamed parts surrounding the mortified flesh, must be just as proper as if the mortification itself did not exist, and were quite out of all considera- tion. It has been justly remarked by an eminent man, (Hunter) that the local treatment of mor- tification, (meaning that in consequence of in- flammation) has been as absurd as the constitu- tional ; scarifications have been made down to the living parts, in order that stimulating and antiseptic medicines might be applied to them ; such as turpentines, the warmer balsams, and sometimes the essential oils. Warm fomenta- tions have been also applied, as being congenial to life; but, warmth always increases action, and should, therefore, be well adjusted to the case; for, on the other hand, cold debilitates or lessens powers, when carried too far, though it first lessens action. Stimulants are likewise impro- per, ns the actions are already too violent. It is proper to keep the parts cool, and all the applica- tions should be cold. In cases of mortification from inflammation,, good effects have also been seen to arise from the topical, as well as internal employment of opium. But it must be acknowledged, that however, proper- the employment of cold applications may be in principle, in cases of mortification, at- tended with inflammation, fomentations and emol- lient poultices are most commonly preferred in practice. Besides common poultices, there are several others, which have acquired great celebrity, as topical applications in cases of mortification. Of this kind are the cataplasma carbonis,* cata- plasma cerevisiae,f and the cataplasma efferves- cens j. These local remedies are, perhaps, in nine cases out of ten, superior to all others. • Prepared by mixing about ^ij. of finely powdered wood-charcoal with half a pound of the common linseed poultice. t Prepared by stirring into the grounds of strong beer as much oatmeal, as will make the mass of a suitable consistence. j Prepared by stirring into an infusion of malt as much oatmeal, as will render the substance of a proper thickness, and then adding about a spoonful of yeast. With respect to stimulating, and spirituous applications, such as brandy, spirit of wine, l>al- sarns, resins, and aromatic substances, which have been recommended by a vast number of authors, they are almost entirely laid aside by modern practitioners. Though such things are indeed really very useful in preserving dead ani- mal substances from becoming putrid, a very little knowledge of the animal economy is requi- site to make us understand, that they cannot act in this manner on parts still endued with vitality; but, on the contrary', that they must have highly prejudicial effects, in the cases under considera- tion, by reason of the violent irritation, which they always excite, when applied to the living fibres. It may now and then, however, be jus- tifiable to apply spirituous applications to the dead parts themselves with a view of diminishing the fetid effluvia, which, by cont'.'ininating the air, have some share in injuring the patient’s health ; but the greatest care is requisite to keep these stimulants from coming into contact with the living surfaces around, and beneath, the sloughs. There are a few surgeons, however, who still place confidence in certain stimulating applica- tions. “ In the less acute and more chronic cases of gangrenous inflammation, as in malig- nant erysipelas and carbuncle, in the gangrene of the toes and feet of old people, iu the sphace- lating state of hospital gangrene, and in severely contused wounds, in which gangrene and sphace- lus have supervened, the emollient poultice, which is applied to promote the separation of the dead parts, may have an addition made to it of a greater or less quantity of the unguentum resi- nosum, or even of oil of turpentine itself. In the more severe of these cases, where we have reason to dread the extension of the sphacelus, warm dressings, as they have been termed, which are formed by dipping pledgets of eharpie in a mixture of equal parts of the unguentum resinosum and oil of turpentine, may be applied, of a temperature as hot as the patient can bear without pain ; and over these we may lay an emollient poultice, of a large size and soft con- sistence. “ After the sphacelus stops, and the process of ulceration begins in the inflamed line of con- tact, between the dead and living parts, it will often be found, that the turpentine dressings are too stimulating, and occasion a considerable de- gree of pain. When this happens, we must either diminish the quantity of the turpentine in the dressings, or remove it altogether, according to circumstances. Besides the pain, a consider- able extension of the ulceration would be, in ge- neral, the effect of continuing these applications after they begin to produce uneasiness. The ulcerating surface is, in the progress of separa- tion, liable to pass under every mode of treat- ment, into the state of a painful and irritable ulcer; and in this state, it may require to be treated with decoctions of poppy-heads, or with the application of the turnip, carrot, fresh hem- lock leaf, stale beer, fermenting, poultices, &c." (See Thomson's Lectures, p. 577, 578.) The hospital gangrene is undoubtedly a case, which requires powerful applications, like Fowl- er’s solution of arsenic, or the undiluted mineral acids; and, in Guy’s Hospital, phagedenic