1022 TETANUS. the first instance, in consequence of the violence inflicted on it; and that the confinement of the swollen substance, by the dense and unyielding tunica albuginea, suliiciently explains the pecu- liar hardness of the tumor, and the pain which is always attendant on this stage of the disorder. The absorption of the coats of the testis, and of the scrotum, obviates the tension of the parts, and thereby restores ease to the patient, at the same time that the fungus makes its appearance externally. With regard to the treatment, Mr. Lawrence is of opinion, that, if the complaint were entirely left to itself, the swelling would probably subside, the fungus shrink, and a complete cure ensue, without any professional assistance ; but, he adds, that the disorder is so indolent in this stage that a spontaneous cure would not be accomplished till after much time. He says, that the excres- cence may be removed with a knife, or, if the nature of its attachment permit, with a liga- ture, or that it may be destroyed with escharotic applications. Mr. Lawrence very judiciously gives the preference to removing the tumor to a level with the scrotum, by means of the knife, as the most expeditious and effectual mode of treatment. He can discern no ground whatever for proposing castration in this malady, since, in no part of its progress, nor in any of its possible consequences and effects, can it expose the pa- tient to the slightest risk. Mr. Lawrence also mentions the possibility of there being other kinds of fungi, which may be met with, growing from the testicle, and quotes an instance, in which Dr. Macartney found a fungus, of a firm and dense structure, growing from the tunica albuginea, while all the substance of the testicle itself was sound. Dr. Macartney was so kind as to shew me the pre- paration, affording a clear specimen of the second kind of fungus. The cases drawn up by Mr. Lawrence, are, in my opinion, highly interesting, and may be read in the Edhib. Med. and Surg. Journal, for July, 1808. I have already noticed, that Callisen repre- sents the lipoma, as sometimes originating from the surface of the tunica vaginalis, a kind of case, which has not yet fallen under my observation. In the preface to the last edition of this Dic- tionary, p. 10, I quoted a case, published by Dr. H. Weinhold, in which the operation for bubonocele was performed, and as the testicle was diseased, the surgeon made a complete divi- sion of the spermatic chord, tied the spermatic arteries, and then left the testicle in its natural situation. After a time, the absorbents had diminished the part to a very inconsiderable lit- tle tumor. (SeeJourn. der Pract. Heilkundc von C. TV. Hnfelund and K. llinily, 1812, Zehntcs. Stuck, p. 112.) This case merits at- tention, an<i ought to have been cited in the article Castration, because it is the first instance, I believe, in which such practice was tried. Sub- sequently, the following work has been published, though I have not yet met with it. “ Nouvcllc Methode dc trailer k Sarcocele. sans avoir rc- cours (i l'extirpation du Tcsticulc, par (. i h. Maunoir, 8vo. Geneve, 1820. The new plan consists in dividing and tying the spermatic arteries, and leaving the rest of the chord and the testis undisturbed. TE FAN US. (from me, to stretch.) Te- tanus is defined by all authors to be a more or less violent, and extensive contraction of the muscles of voluntary motion, attended with ten- sion and rigidity of the parts affected. The excessive contraction of the muscles is kept up, without any intervals of complete relaxation, in which respect the disorder differs from ordi- nary spasms, and convulsions, where the contrac- tions and relaxations alternate in rapid succes- sion. In tetanus, the powers of sensation and intellect also remain unimpaired, in which par- ticularity it forms a contrast to epilepsy. (Rees's Cyclopedia, art. Tetanus.) When its effects are confined to the muscles of the jaw or throat, it is called trismus, or loclccd-jaw ; when all the body is affected and becomes rigid, but retains its ordinary straight- ness, the case is named tetanus. When the body is bent forwards, the disease is termed cmprostliotonos; and opisthotonos, when the muscles of the back are principally affected. To these four forms, some writers have added a fifth, which they denominate pleurosthotonos, and which is characterized by the body being drawn to one side. It is the tetanus lateralis of Sauvages. The different terms, which are applied to teta- nic affections, do not imply so many particular diseases; but, onty the seat and various degrees of one and the same complaint. A far more important division of tetanus, is into the acute and chronic, according to its greater or lesser intensity. The first is exceed- ingly dangerous,'and usually fatal; while the lat- ter, on account of the more gradual progress of the symptoms, affords more opportunity of being successfully treated. (Larrey, in Mem. dc Chi- rurgie Militairc, T. 1, p. 235, 236.) Tetanus may also be distinguished into the traumatic, or that arising from wounds, being the case with which surgeons have principally to deal; and into the idiopathic, or that proceeding from a variety of other causes. Traumatic tetanus sometimes comes on in a surprisingly sudden manner, and quickly attains its most violent degree. The most rapidly fatal case, that has ever been recorded, is one, that we have on the authority of the late Professor Robison of Edinburgh. It occurred in a negro, who scratched his thumb with a broken china plate, and died of tetanus a quarter of an hour after this slight injury. (See Rees's Cyclopaedia, art. Tetanus.) But, commonly, the approaches of the disorder are more gradual, and it slowly advances to its worst stage. In this sort of case, the commencement of the disorder is announced by a sensation of stiffness about the neck, a symptom, which increasing by degrees, renders the motion of the head difficult and painful. In proportion as the rigidity of the neck becomes greater, the patient experiences about the root of the tongue, an uneasiness, which soon changes into a difficulty of mastication and swallowing, which alter a time become totally impossible. The attempt at deglutition is attended with con- vulsive efforts, especially when an endeavour is made to swallow liquids; and so great is the distress, which accompan es these convulsions, that the patient becomes very reluctant to renew the trials, and refuses all nourishment. Some*