772 LITHOTOMY. from the arm. The next day the slip of linen was withdrawn, as useless and irritating, the catheter, while pervious, preventing any urine from escaping by the wound. Sir Everard thinks, that in future the linen need only be left in the external wound, so as to prevent collections of matter, and carry off any urine, which may issue from the opening in the bladder, when the catheter happens to be stopped up. For this operation, Sir Everard particularly recommends catheters, with their insides polished like their outsides, in order that they may better resist the effects of the urine. Suffice it to add, with respect to the above case, that the boy soon recovered, the bladder having resumed its healthy functions in ten days, although the calculus was of the roughest possible kind. Sir Everard Home has repeated his new me- thod on a gentleman, who went out in his car- riage, with the external wound completely healed, on the 14th day after the operation. The only particulars, which need here be noticed, in regard to the latter case, are, that some difficulty was experienced in bringing the point of the catheter forwards toward the pubes, and the slit in the front of the instrument made it so incapable of bearing lateral motion, that the two sides were twisted over one another. (On Strictures, Vol. 3, p. 359, 8vo. Lonil. 1820.) Whoever follows this method of operating should always be provided with several tubes and stilets, of different lengths and curvatures ; for, in the only case, in which I have seen the opera- tion attempted, the extremity of the catheter could not be made to project the fundus of the bladder towards the pubes, and, after long pro- tracted endeavours had been made to bring the end of the instrument upwards and forwards, the tube broke, and the operation was left unfinished. The impression upon my mind was, that no re- sistance of the bladder could account for what happened, and that the fault lay in the instru- ment itself, which should have been exchanged for another of more suitable form, as soon as it was found to be inapplicable. And, 1 believe, that, if attention be paid to this suggestion of always having at hand a sufficient number of tubes and stilets, of different lengths, and curva- tures, Sir Everard Home's new method will be the best modification of the high operation yet proposed. The slip of linen, however, I think is more likely to do harm by its irritation, than any good, as a conductor of the urine, or matter out the wound. At all events, as Sir Everard has observed, it should never be passed into the bladder itself- Whenever I am asked my opi- nion, respecting the preference, which should be given to the high operation, as a general prac- tice, I venture no further than to express a favourable opinion of it for cases, in which the calculus is known beforehand to be of very large size, or the urethra and prostate gland are dis- eased. The reasons, urged by Mr. Carpue, in favour of a preference to the high operation in most cases, are: 1. Because, it is generally per- formed in less time; a point, which may be dis- puted, though it is perhaps not worth contesting, since the danger of an operation cannot always be truly estimated by the length of time, which the patient remains in the operating room, slow and gentle proceedings sometimes contributing to his safety. 2. There is less pain ; a remark, the justness of which must depend, perhaps, upon the manner in which each operation is done. 3. There is no fear of a fatal hemorrhage; a consideration, which I admit is one good reason, in favour of the high operation; though the lateral operation is only subject to risk of he- morrhage, when the incisions are directed in a manner not sanctioned in this dictionary. 4. There is no division of the prostate and inferior part of the bladder: no, but there is one of the fundus, so that perhaps on" this point the two operations stand upon an equality. As for there being no danger in the high operation of wound- ing the rectum, it is undoubtedly an advantage, though the accident, as far as I have seen, is not followed by any serious consequences, and can only happen from inattention to rules easily followed. 5- The stone, if of a certain size, cannot be extracted by the lateral operation, but admits of being so by the high operation. Of all the reasons for the latter practice, this appears to me the strongest, with the exception perhaps of disease in the urethra and prostate. G. A small stone is more readily discovered in this method, than in the lateral operation: a point, which I consider questionable, and, at all events, not suf- ficiently important to form a ground for the high operation. 7. If a stone breaks, the particles can be extracted with more certainty, than in the lateral operation : on this question, authors differ. 8. The high operation enables the sur- geon to remove encysted calculi with greater ease : a reason, which may perhaps be generally true, but which is somewhat weakened by the consideration that encysted calculi are not very frequent. Mr. Carpue allows, that the high operation should not be selected, when the pa- tient is corpulent, and the bladder is thickened and diseased, so that its fundus cannot be raised above the pubes. (See Hist, of the High Operation, p. 173, 8no. Load. 131P.) As it is not my object to discourage the prac- tice of the high operation, under the particular circumstances which have been specified, I de- cline entering into any strict consideration of the inconveniences, to which this method is ex- clusively subject, especially, the greater vicinity of the wound to the peritoneum and small in- testines, and the division of that membrane and protrusion of the viscera; accidents, which will be found by any body, who chooses to look over the cases on record, not to have been unfrequent. On the contrary, as I believe this method is ad- vantageous in certain cases, the recent attempts to bring it to greater perfection give me sincere pleasure In December. ISIS, Mr. Kirby, of Dublin, performed the high operation for the extraction of an elastic gum catheter, which had slipped into the bladder through (lie cannula of a trocar, with which paracentesis had been performed. No contrivance was found necessary for lifting up the fundus of the bladder. The puncture, already made, was enlarged, and, after the operation was finished, a catheter was placed in the wound, but was withdrawn on the 4th day, as the urine passed out by the side of it. The case ter- minated well. (See Kirin/’s Cases, p. 92, <§'f* 8ro. Dublin, 181.9.)