VENEREAL DISEASE. Thomson, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Bacot, and other modern practitioners. In short, if there be such a sceptic now living in this country, let him per- use the returns made by the surgeons of the whole British army, documents, which will be noticed in the sequel of this article; let him con- sider the evidence of the surgeons of other coun- tries, especially that of Cullerier, who annually demonstrates to his class of pupils the cube of venereal ulcers, without mercury; and the tes- timony and practice of the German surgeons, who were attached during the war, to regiments of their countrymen in the British service. The fact is therefore indisputable, that the venereal disease in all its ordinary and diversified forms, is capable of a spontaneous cure, and conse- quently, that the question whether the disease is syphilitic, or not, can never be determined by the circumstance of the complaint yielding, and being permanently cured, without the aid of mercury. Yet, as Mr. Rose has observed, the supposition, that syphilis did not admit of a na- tural cure, and that mercury was the only remedy that had the power of destroying its virus, was of late so much relied upon, that where a dis- ease had been cured without the use of that medicine, and did not afterwards return, such fact alone, whatever might have been the sym- ptoms, was regarded as sufficient proof, that it was not a case of syphilis. And, as the same writer very judiciously remarks, the refutation of these notions is of considerable importance, “not so much in reference to the treatment of syphilis, under common circumstances, for the strikingly good effects of mercury will probably not render it advisable in general to give up the use of that remedy, but from the change it will produce in our views of the diagnosis of the disease. The distinction which has engaged such a share of attention of late years, and which is evidently so important between syphilis and syphiloid diseases, has been made to depend so much on the former admitting of no cure, except by mercury, that, if this principle should be found to be erroneous, the difficulties which have attended it, will in a great measure be explained.” (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 350, 351.) That it is erro- neous will appear more clearly, when the treat- ment of syphilis falls under consideration. Excluding from present attention, works of ancient date, it is curious to find, how very near several writers, within the last twenty or thirty years, arrived at the same point, to which recent investigations have led. Thus, Mr. B. Bell observes, a chancre might frequently be cured with external applications alone, and as we know from experience, that the virus is not always absorbed, the cure would in a few instances prove permanent; but, as we can never with certainty know whether this would happen, or not, while, in a great proportion of cases, there would be reason to think, that absoqUion would take place, we ought not in any case to trust to it.” On Gonorrhoea Virnlenta, §c. Vol. 2, Ed. 2, p. 325, 8vo. Edinh. 1797.) And, in some reflections upon a case of doubtful nature. Dr. Clutterbuek long ago remarked: “ Sup- posing even that the diseased appearances bad .ifin. - 4i,v,Q nf themselves. I should disease, in some of its stages, and, in certain circumstances, may get well without mercury, or any other remedy. But, this is contrary to the doctrine of Mr. Hunter, who supposed, that venereal actions go on increasing, without any tendency to wear themselves out That lues venerea is much modified by climate, and other circumstances, is generally allowed ; that it has been cured by other means than mercury, we have also very sufficient evidence, in the older writers on the subject: not to mention the late successful trials with acids, and other substances. Many of the appearances on the skin go off spon- taneously. “ When purple spots appear on the skin,” (Mr. Hunter observes, yx 319,) “giving it a mottled appearance in this disease, many of the spots disappear, whilst other continue and in- crease.” (AT. Clutterbuek, Remarks on some of the Opinions of the late Mr. John Hunter, p. 27, 8vo. Loud. 1799.) If Dr. Clutterbuek bad advanced one step further, and declared that the venereal disease might be cured tvithout mercury, or any other remedy, in all, or nearly , ,< all its forms, and not merely in some of them, \j c he would actually have anticipated the most im- j portant fact, recently established chiefly bv the ; j. meritorious labours of the army surgeons, whose opportunities of making the investigation were j; better on several accounts, than those of private j f practitioners, who generally soon lose sight of } ( their patients, and never have them sufficiently under their control and observation to render j a full perseverance in any method a matter of certainty. At all events, Dr. Clutterbuek may j justly claim the merit of having distinctly marked the fact, that the circumstance of a, disease giving way, and being cured without mercury, is no proof that the case is not venereal. One of the most ingenious theories, ever de- vised for explaining all the perplexities and irregularities of syphilis, is unquestionably that of the late Mr. Hunter; for, it accommodated i itself almost to every thing, and every believer in it fancied he could account satisfactorily for many puzzling occurrences,' which admitted of no good explanation on other principles. Mr. Hunter inculcated, that the parts contaminated by the absorption of the venereal poison, do not immediately begin to be palpably diseased, but , h only acquire a disposition to take on the vcnc- real action. He further believed, that, when ; this disposition was once formed in a part, it ? necessarily changed into action, or manifest dis- ease, at some future period. That mercury can j cure the disease, when positively formed, but not ; the disposition to it. That although mercury can- ; not destroy the disposition already contracted, yet j that it can prevent it from being formed at all. ■ i ‘ That the disposition never becomes the real disease, or, in Mr. Hunter’s language, goes into action during the use of mercury. 1 hat the action having once taken place, always increases, never I wearing itself out. That parts, once cured, jtj' never become again contaminated from the same jU Si stock of infection. And, that the matter of j ] V secondary ulcers, or those which break out in || consequence of absorption, is not infectious, V. What Mr. Hunter meant by the term disposi-: tion. I think is better explained, than the grounds j;