VERTEBRAE, DISEASE OF. 1173 i while they lived, never suffered the peculiar loss of the use of the lower extremities, so well de- scribed by Mr. Pott, though the vertebra? were found to be diseased. However, in other in- stances of such abscesses, attended with caries of tiie spine, the legs are deprived of their power. But, whether the difference is to be explained by the consideration, that, in some cases, the disease of the bone may be secondary and the abscess itself the primary complaint, I cannot determine. Ac all events, suppuration is frequently only an effect, the curvature existing long before the abscess; and, in such cases, the legs are affected. A few weeks ago, Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, .consulted me about] a case in which the latter fi'aets were exemplified. Mr. Brodie’s opinion, . that suppuration takes place at an earlier period, in cases where the disease begins in the caneel- i 1 i ous structure of the bones, has been already no- ticed. In having a tendency to excite suppu-. ration, and in producing the weakness of the lower extremities, the present disease of the I pi e appears to be materially different from the lbsorption of the vertebra, sometimes caused by he pressure of aneurisms, and other tumors. Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, <| c. ji.bO.) Mr Pott observes :—When a child appears o be what the common people call naturally »veakly, whatever complaints it may have are upposed to be caused by its weak state, and it is [generally believed, that time and common care rill remove them; but, when a curvature has : aade its appearance, all these marks of ill health, . uch as laborious respiration, hard cough, quick n ulse, hectical heat and flushing, pain and tight- ii ess of the stomach, &c. are more attentively Regarded, and set to the account of the deformity onseqnent to the curve, more especially if the urvature be of the dorsal vertebra1, in which ase the deformity is always greatest; but, who- ver will carefully attend to all the circumstances of lis disorder, will be convinced, that most, if not 11, the complaints of children, labouring under h i is infirmity, precede the curvature, and that a R morbid state of tiie spine, and of the parts con- nected with it, is the original and primary cause ff both. Amongst many other reasons for thinking, fiat an effect was mistaken for a cause, Mr. ’ott enumerates the following: I. “ That he did not remember ever to have :en this usehss state of the limbs from a mere al-formation of the spine, however crooked ich mal-formation might have made it. wh ‘2. “ That none of those deviations from right M inpe, which growing girls are so liable to, how- ver great the deformity might be, was ever tended with this effect.” With respect to the treatment of diseased >ine, I think one principle, laid down by Mr. ott, must receive approbation; viz. that the imary and sole cause of all the symptoms is a stempered state of the parts, composing, or in unediate connexion with the spine, tending to, id most frequently ending in a caries of the irtebra. Hence, says he, all the, ills, whether rneral or local, apparent or concealed ; the ill -a 1th of the patient, and in time the curvature, s the disease does not originate in the limbs, no iplication to them can be of any use, and the great indication must be to stop the progress of the disease in the affected part of the spine. The first suggestion of the probability that Issues might prove serviceable in this disease, appears to have been made to Mr. Pott by Dr. Cameron, of Worcester, who told him, that, ha- ving remarked in Hippocrates, an account of pa- ralysis of the lower limbs, cured by an abscess in the back, he had, in a case of useless limbs, attended with a curvature of the spine, endea- voured to imitate this act of nature, by exciting a purulent discharge, and that it had proved very beneficial: which was confirmed to Mr. Pott by Mr. Jeffreys, of Worcester, who had made the experiment with the same success. The practice, which Pott recommends, con- sists merely in procuring a large discharge of matter from the integuments on each side of the distempered bones, forming the curvature, and in maintaining such discharge until the patient shall have recovered his health and the use of his limbs. They who are little conversant with mat- ters of this sort (says Mr. Pott) will suppose the means very inadequate to the proposed end; but they who have been experimentally acquainted with the very wonderful effects of purulent drains, made from the immediate neighbourhood of dis- eases, will not be so much surprised at this par- ticular one; and will immediately see how such kind of discharge,, made, and continued from the distempered part, checks the further progress of the caries, gives nature an opportunity of exert- ing her own powers of throwing off the diseased parts, and of producing, by incarnation, an union of the bones (now rendered sound), and thereby establishing a cure. Mr. Pott considers it a matter of very little importance towards the cure, by what means the discharge be procured, provided it be large, that it come from a sufficient depth, and that it be continued for a sufficient length of time. He tried setons, issues by incision, and issues by caustic, and found the last in general preferable, being least painful, most cleanly, most easily ma- nageable, and capable of being longest continued. The caustics, he observes, should be applied on each side of the curvature, in such a manner as to leave the portion of skin, covering the spi- nal processes of the protruding bones, entire and unhurt, and so large, that the sores, upon the separation of the eschars, may easily hold each three or four peas, in the case of the smallest curvature; but, in large curves, at least as many more. The issues, which modern surgeons usually make, for the relief of the symptoms arising from diseased vertebra, are larger, than such as Mr. Pott himself was in the habit of forming. They now commonly prefer making an issue on eacli side of the spinous processes, about three or four inches long, and half an incli broad. The size of the issue, intended to be made, being determined, the place, where it is to be made, should be accurately marked out with ink. All the skin immediately around should then be covered with adhesive plaster, in order that it may be protected from the action of the caustic. Let the surgeon next take a piece of caustic po- tassa, or of potassa cum calec, and wrap a little