»40 PROSTATE GLAND. should also be employed; internal narcotic me- dicines, anodyne clysters, the mixtura amygda- larum, &c. Morgagni has taken notice of the retentions of urine, arising from the presence of calculi in the prostate gland. The nature of these con- cretions will be described in the article Urinary Calculi. Calculi also sometimes form in or about the prostate gland, when, after litho- tomy, the outer part of the wound heals sooner than the bottom. A kind of urinary fistula then ensues; and, as the extraneous substance is con- stantly exposed to the contact of fresh urine, it may increase to a very large size. The diagno- sis of prostatic calculi is seldom very clear. A .retention of urine, and an impediment to the emission of the semen, are said to be the only symptoms, and these are common to several other affections of the prostate gland and ure- thra. When the finger is introduced into the rectum, the gland may indeed tie felt to be enlarged; but the nature and cause of such en- largement cannot in general be distinguished. In one instance, however, lately recorded by Dr. Marcet, the calculi could be plainly felt through the coats of the rectum, and a proposal was made to extract them by an incision in that situation; but the patient did not accede to so judicious a measure. (Med. and Chem. Hist, of Calculous Disorders, 8wo. 1817.) When a calculus projects from the prostate gland into the urethra, the end of a sound will strike against it; but then it can rarely be known, whether the extraneous substance may not be a calculus that has passed out of the bladder into the urethra, or lies close to the neck of this viscus. AVhether the case be of one description, or the other, however, the treatment should be the same; viz. the calculus should be extracted by an incision, resembling that practised in the lateral operation. A considerable varicose affection of the vessels of the prostate gland, which is also itself gene- rally somewhat enlarged, is another disease, treated of by writers, as one cause of a re- tention of urine. In this case, the water should be drawn off with an clastic gum catheter, which should be kept in the urethra; and a large in- strument is to be preferred to a smaller one. For an account of the symptoms of this case, I must refer to Les (Euvrcs Chir. de Desault, T. 3. p. 234. The practice of this author was gradually to dilate the portion of the urethra, which passes through the prostate with bou- gies, or elastic catheters, which were worn a long while, and cleaned and changed at proper intervals. I am not aware, that these cases are recognized in the practice of surgery in Eng- land. The most frequent disease of the prostate gland, and, of course, that which is most in- teresting to the practical surgeon, is a slow hardening and enlargement of it, sometimes de- nominated scirrlius, whereby its natural size, which is that of a common chesnut, is sometimes gradually changed to that of a man s fist. (<J. C. Pelil.) According to the observations of Mr. Hunter, Desault, and Sir Everard Home, this chronic swelling of the prostate gland is most common in the decline of life; one circumstance, in which it differs from scrophulous diseases of the same part, which are well known to happen chiefly in youngish persons. It is observed by Mr. Hunter, that, when the prostate gland swells, “ it does not lessen the surface of the urethra at the part, like a stricture; on the contrary, it rather increases it; but, the sides of the canal arc compressed together, producing an ob- struction to the passage of the urine, which irritates the bladder, and brings on all the symptoms in that viscus, usually arising front a stricture, or stone. From the situation of the gland, which is principally on the two sides of the canal, and but little, if at all, on the forepart, as also very little on the posterior side, it. can only swell laterally, whereby it presses the two sides of the canal together, and, at the same time, stretches it from the anterior edge, or side, to the posterior, so that the canal, instead of' being round, is flattened into a narrow groom, sometimes the gland swells more on one side, than the other, which makes an obliquity in ih> canal passing through it. “ Besides this effect of the lateral parts swell- ing, a small portion of it, which lies behind tin very beginning of the urethra, swells forwards, like a point, as it were into the bladder, acting like a valve to the mouth of the urethra,- which can be seen even when the swelling is not con- siderable, by looking upon the mouth of the urethra from the cavity of the bladder in a dead body. It sometimes increases so much as to form a tumor, projecting into the bladder some inches. This projection turns, or bends the urethra forwards, becoming an obstruction to the passage of a catheter, bougie, or any such instrument; and it often raises the sound over a small stone in the bladder, so as to prevent its being felt." (Hunter on the Venereal Dis- ease, p. 169.) The valvular production just behind the beginning of the urethra, here de- scribed, particularly merits attention, because it is represented by Sir Everard Home as arising from the enlargement of what he considers a newly discovered part in anatomy, viz. a third, or middle lobe of the prostate gland. (See Phil. Trans. 1806.) In the dissections, which Sir Everard mentions, .as having led to this discovery, “ the urinary bladder was distended with water, and the surfaces of the prostate gland, vesicular seminales, and vasa deferenlia, were fairly exposed. This being done, the vasa deferentia and vesiculae seminales were carefully dissected off from the bladder, without removing any other part. These were turned down upon the body of the prostate gland. An accurate dissection was then made of the circumference of the two posterior portions of the prostate gland, and the space between them was particularly examined. In doing this, a small rounded sub- stance Was discovered, so much detached that it seemed a distinct gland, and so nearly resembling Cowper’s glands in size and shape, as they appeared in the same subject, in which they were unusually large, that it appeared to be a gland of that kind. It could not, however, be satisfactorily separated from the prostate gland, nor could any distinct duct be found leading into the bladder. “ A similar examination was made of this part in five different subjects. The appearance was not exactly the same in any two of them. In one, there was no apparent glandular sub-