«S0 BRONCHOCELE. originated with Bernard, u silversmith at Paris, who, in the year 1779, presented some instru- ments of this kind to the Aeadetny of Surgery, which period was prior to the claim made by Professor Pickel ot W urzburg to the discovery. (See Journ. de Med. an. 1785.) bor the composition of bougies, elastic resin, or gum, is thought to be very desirable, as it unites firmness and flexibility. ” Mr. Wilson, in his Pharmacopoeia Chirurgia, is inclined to think that the art of making these instruments, consists in finding a suitable solvent for the indian gum. As this substance, if dissolved in aether, com- pletely recovers its former elasticity, upon the evaporation of this fluid, it is supposed that aether, though rather too expensive, would answer. I find it positively asserted, however, in a modern work of great repute, that the idea of elastic gum being the substance really employed, is a mistake, as the materi.l used is nothing more than linseed oil, boiled for a considerable time, and used as a varnish for the silk, linen, or cot- ton tube. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. urt. Ban git.) Very cheap and good elastic gum bougies are made by Feburier, No. 51, Rue du Bac at Paris, who has twelve different sizes. His elastic gum catheters are also well made, though, for smooth- ness and regularity, I think they are not equal to some, which are now constructed in London, but, I believe, Feburier’s smallest size is rather less than any which are made in this city ; an advan- tage, which no doubt our artists will soon be able to give their productions. This ingenious mechanic does not employ catgut in the composition of the elastic gum bougies, for which he is so celebra- ted. These bougies are most excellent, when you can get them to pass; for they dilate the stric- ture with the least possible irritation. But, some- times, they cannot be introduced, when a wax bourne can; and from the trials, which I have made of them, I conceive this arises from their elasticity and continual tendency to become straight, when they reach the perinaeum, so that the point presses on the lower surface of the urethra. Hence, when the obstruction is on that side, it must be very difficult to get the end of the bougie over it. A few years ago, Mr. Smyth discovered a metallic composition, of which he formed bougies, to which some practitioners impute very superior qualities. These bougies are flexible, have a highly polished surface, of a silver hue, and pos- sess a sufficient degree of firmness for any force necessary in introducing them for the cure of strictures in the urethra. The advocates for the metallic bougies assert, that such instruments exceed any other bougies, which have yet been invented, and arecapable of succeeding in all cases, in which the use of a bougie is proper. They are either solid, or hollow, and are said to answer extremely well as catheters; for, they not only pass into the bladder with case, but may also be continued there for any convenient space of time, and thus produce essential benefit. (IK. Smyth, Brief Essay on the Advantages o/ flexible Metallic Bougies, 8vo. Lmd. 1804.) The greatest objec- tion, which has been urged against them, is, that they are attended with a risk of breaking. I have heard of an eminent surgeon being called upon to cut into the bladder, in consequence of a me- tallic bougie having broken, and a piece 6f it got into that organ, where it became a cause of the severe symptoms which are commonly the effect of a stone in the bladder. For the particulars of an interesting case, in which a metallic bougie i broke in the urethra, the reader may consult London Med. Repository, Vol. 9, No. 51. It has also been objected to metallic bougies, that, j although they are sufficiently flexible, they are i quite destitute of elasticity. The bougie, with its application, says Mr. j Hunter, is perhaps one of the greatest improve- ments in surgery', which these last thirty, or forty years have produced. When I compare the prac- tice of the present dayr, with what it was in the year 1750, I can scarcely be persuaded, that I am treating the same disease. 1 remember, when, about that time, I was attending the first hospitals in the city, the common bougies were, either a ; piece of lead, or a small wax candle, and, although j ihe present bougie was known then, the due pre- \ ference was not given to it, nor its particular merit understood, as we may see from the pub- lications of that time. Daran was the first, who improved the bougie, and brought it into general use. He wrote pro- fessedly on the diseases for which it is a cure, and also of the manner of preparing it, but, be has introduced much absurdity into his descriptions of the diseases, the modes of treatment, and the powers and composition of his bougies. When Daran published bis observations on the bougie, every' surgeon set to work to discover the composition, and each conceived, that he had found it out, from the bougies, which he had made, producing the effects described by Daran. It never occurred to them, that any extraneous body', of the same shape and consistence, would do the same thing. ('See a Treatise on the Venereal Disease, p.116. Sharp's Critical Inquiry, Ch. 4; Aik in on the External Use of Lead ; Daran Ohs. Chir. Snr les Maladies de f Uietre, 12mo. Paris, 1748, and 17t>8 ; Olivier, Letlre dans laqtitlle on demonlve les uvimtages, que Von peut retirer de lyusage des bougies creuses, tjj-c. 8eo Paris, 1750; Desault, Journ. de Chir. T. 2, p. 375, and T. 3, p. 123, 1792; Smyth's Brief Essay on flexible me- tallic bougies, 8iv. Loud. 1804; Diet, des Sciences Medicdles, T. 3, p. 265, §c. 8to. Paris, 1812.) Of armed bougies, as well as of some other f kinds, and of the manner of using bougies in general, I shall speak in the article Urethru, Strictures of. BRAIN. (For concussion, compression of, &c. see Head, Injuries oj ; for the hernia of, see Hernia Cerebri.) BREAST. (See Mumm try Abscess; Mamma, Removal ol; Cancer, 6tc ) BRONCHOCELE. (from thewind- pipe, and miX»i, a tumour.) Also, called hotiuni, or bacium. The Swiss call the disease gotre, or goitre. Some have called it, hernia gutturis; put- tier tumutuni; truchelophqmu; gossum ; (jcchc- bronchos ; gongrona; hernia brvnchiulis. Ileister thought it should be named tracheocele. Pros- ser, from its frequency on the hilly parts of Derbyshire, called it the D<-vl>ushhc neck; and, not satisfied respecting the similitude of this tumour to that observed on the necks of women on the Alps, the English Bronchocelc. Bv Ali- bert the disease is called Thyrophraxitt.