188 ANUS. this case, generally have immediate recourse to the catheter; but the practice is essentially wrong. 1 he neck of the bladder does certainly par- ticipate, in some degree, in the said inflamma- tion. But, the principal part of the complaint arises from irritation, and the disease is, strictly speaking, spasmodic. The manner in which an attack of this kind is generally made; the very little distention which the bladder often suffers; the small quantity of urine sometimes contained in it, even when the symptoms are most pressing; and the most certain, as well as safe, method of relieving it; all tend to strengthen such opinion. But whether we attribute the evil to in- flammation, or to spasmodic irritation, whatever can, in any degree, contribute to the exaspera- tion of either, must be manifestly wrong. The violent passage of the catheter through the neck of the bladder (for violent in such circumstances it must be) can never be right. If the instrument be successfully introduced, it must either be withdrawn as soon as the bladder is emptied, or it must be left in it: if the former be done, the same cause of retention remaining, the same effect returns; the same pain and violence must again be submitted to, under (most likely) increased difficulties. On the other hand, if the catheter be left in the bladder, it will often, while its neck is in this state, occasion such disturbance, that the remedy' (as it is called) will prove an exasperation of the disease, and add to the evil it is designed to alleviate; nor is this all; for the resistance which the parts, while in this state, make, is sometimes so great, that if any violence be used, the instrument will make for Itself a new route in the neighbouring parts, and lay the founda- tion of such mischief as frequently baffles all our art. The true, safe, and rational method of re- lieving this complaint (says Pott) is by'evacuation and anodyne relaxation : this not only procures immediate ease, but does, at the same time, serve another very material purpose ; which is that of maturating the abscess. Loss of blood is ne- cessary; the quantity to be determined by the strength and state of the patient: the intestines •should also be emptied, if there be time for so doing, by a gentle cathartic; but the most effectual relief will be from the warm bath, or semicupium, the application of bladders with hot water to the pubes and perineum, and, above all other remedies, the injection of glysters, consisting of warm water, oil, and op urn. There may have been cases which have resisted and baffled this method of treatment; but Pott has never met with them. A painful tenesmus is no uncommon atten- dant upon an inflammation of the parts about the rectum. If a dose of rhubarb, joined with a warm anodyne, such as the conf. mithrid. or such like, does not remove it, the injection of thin starch and opium, or tinct. thebaic, is almost in- fallible. * The bearing down, in females, as it proceeds in this case, from the same kind of cause (viz. irritation) admits of relief from the same means as the tenesmus. In some habits an obstinate costiveness attends this kind of inflammation, accompanied, not un- frequently, with a painful distention and enlarge- ment of the haemorrhoidal vessels, both in- ternally and externally. While a quantity of hard feces are detained within the large in- testines, the whole habit must be disordered; and the symptomatic fever, which necessarily accompanies the formation of matter, must be considerably heightened. And while the vessels surrounding the rectum (which are large and numerous) are distended, all the ills proceeding from pressure, inflammation, and irritation, must be increased. Phlebotomy, laxative glysters, and a low, cool regimen, must be the remedies: while a soft cataplasm applied externally' serves to relax and mollify the swollen, indurated piles, at the same time that it hastens the suppura- tion. When the abscesses have formed, and are fit to be opened, or when they have already burst, they may be reduced to two general heads, viz. 1. Those, in which the intestine is not at all interested; and, 2. Those, in which it is either laid bare, or perforated. In making the opening, the knife or lancet should be passed in deep enough to reach the fluid; and, when it is in, the incision should be continued upward and downward, in such man- ner as to divide all the skin covering the matter. By these means, the contents of the abscess will be discharged at once; future lodgment of matter will be prevented ; convenient room will be made for the application of proper dressings; and there will be no necessity for making the incision in different directions, or for removing any part of the skin composing the verge of the anus. Notwithstanding all these collections of matter are generally called fistnlce, and are all supposed to affect the intestinum rectum, yet it is very certain that the seat of the abscess, ,is sometimes at such distance from the gut, that it is not at all interested by' it; and that none of these cases either are, or can be originallyJistnlev. In this state of the disease, we have no more necessarily to do with the intestine, than if it was not there; the case is to be considered merely as an abscess in the cellular membrane. Suppose a large and convenient opening to have been made by a simple incision ; the con- tents of the abscess to have been thereby dis- charged ; and a sore or cavity produced, which is to be filled up. The term Jilting it)', and the former opinion, that the induration of the parts about is a dis- eased callosity', have been the two principal sources of misconduct in these cases. The old opinion, with regard to hollow and hardness, was that the former is caused entirely by loss of substance: and the latter, by' diseased alteration in the structure of the parts. The consequence of which opinion was, that as soon as the matter was discharged, the cavity was filled and distended, in order to procure a gradual regeneration of flesh, and the dressings, with which it was so filled, were most commonly of the escharotic kind, intended for the dissolu- tion of hardness.