870 OPHTIIALMY. scoop, or the head of any large curved needle, introduced straight under the eyelid, at the outer canthus, as high as possible, the extraneous sub- stance is to be extracted with a semicircular movement, directed towards the nose. Though this method will almost always succeed, Beer confesses, that it is not without the production of a great deal of mechanical irritation. In consequence of the detention of such sub- stances under the eyelids, the conjunctiva some- times becomes thickened; this change, when slight, soon disappears of itself after the removal of the foreign bodies; but, in other cases, Beer recommends the diseased part of the membrane to be removed with a pair of scissars; and, after the bleeding has ceased, the frequent application of the lotio plumbi acetatis to the eye. Particles of common dust, and of the sand and powders, frequently thrown over letters, and very apt to get into the eyes of persons, who open their letters carelessly, or from short-sightedness, are obliged to bring them close to the nose, are generally more difficult of extraction. In the attempt, however, the eye must never be sub- jected to too much irritation. According to Beer, these extraneous particles of dust, or sand, may sometimes be removed by washing the eye well, or by dropping into it milk, or some other viscid fluid, while the patient lies upon his back, and the eyelid is lifted up from the eye. But, the most expeditious and certain plan is to em- ploy a syringe, the pipe of which is to be intro- duced under the upper eyelid near the outer canthus, and the fluid thrown briskly in the direction towards the nose. If all the extrane- ous matter cannot be thus removed, the rest may sometimes be taken out with a camel-hair pencil, dipped in some viscid fluid, or fresh butter, and the eye is then to be washed again. When particles of sugar, or other soluble, not very irritating substances, happen to insinuate themselves into the eye, professional aid is sel- dom required, as they generally dissolve in the tears, and are voided before a surgeon can arrive. Snuff, pepper, and other minute irritating bodies, as well as small winged insects, are to be re- moved in the same manner, as particles of dust and letter-sand; but, particular care is to be taken afterwards to wash the eye well with some lukewarm mucilaginous collyrium, until the irri- tation, caused by the chemical effect of such foreign bodies, has been completely obviated. The removal of foreign bodies of the second class is usually attended with more difficulty, because they, as well as those of the third class, more frequently produce a violent and obstinate spasmodic closure of the eyelids, and are sel- dom loose, being generally fixed in the cornea. However, when they happen to be detached, they may be extracted in the same way, as small round smooth extraneous bodies, except that the stroking of the eyelid with the finger should be omitted, not only as useless, but likely to press any of these substances, which are of a pointed shape, into the loose conjunctiva, so as to injure the eye itself, which would otherwise not be hurt. The nibs of pens, the parings of the nails, and small hard-winged insects, when lodged in a depression of the cornea, or white of the eye, Beer says, maybe easily dislodged by means of a small silver spatula. Other foreign bodies of the second class are not only fixed in a depression, but even penetrate more deeply 1 than the conjunctiva; and, in old subjects, in j particular, they often insinuate themselves into i the loose cellular membrane under the conjunc- tiva in the white of the eye, partly in conse- quence of the convulsive motions of the eye- ball and eyelids, and partly by reason of the j attempts made to loosen them. Hence, they! frequently become situated a great way from j the place of their entrance, arid are completely covered by the conjunctiva. But, even when) they lie immediately in the wound, they are so intimately connected with the subjacent loose! cellular membrane of the conjunctiva, that every attempt to remove them with forceps is not only unavailing, but hurtful to the eye, inasmuch as the injury is thereby rendered deeper. They may be taken away with faci- lity, however, when lifted up with a pair of small forceps, and are cut away with a pair of scis- sars, together with the piece of cellular mem- brane, with which they are directly connected. If such extraneous substance should be ac- tually underneath the sclerotic conjunctiva, Beer recommends the eyelids to be well opened, and the eye to be brought into a position, in which the part of the conjunctiva, covering the foreign body, is rendered tense, when an inci- sion is to be made with a lancet down to the extraneous substance, which is to be taken hold of, and removed with a pair of scissars, the as- sistant being careful to keep hold of the eyelids during the operation. On the other hand, when the foreign body is actually lodged between the layers of the' cornea, Beer considers that its extraction may be best accomplished with a lancet-pointed couching needle. But, whatever instrument is used, its point must be passed with great caution closely and obliquely under the foreign body; and care must be taken not to introduce it too deeply, lest the anterior chamber be opened, which may readily happen in young subjects; and when it does, the aqueous humour flows out, and the cornea becomes so flaccid, that the removal of the extraneous substance is quite impracticable, before the puncture has healed, and the anterior chamber is again distended. The removal of foreign bodies of the third class mostly demands very great caution, first, because, as Beer observes, no particles of them should be allowed to remain in the eye, which, without the utmost vigilance, is apt to be the case; and secondly-, because the wound of the eye, already considerable, should not be made larger than can be avoided. The extraction of small bits of glass is particularly difficult, as they cannot be seen, but must be found out entirely by the feelings of the patient, or the laclus cruditus of the surgeon, assisted with a probe. "When in this way, a particle of glass is detected, Beer directs us to take hold of it with a pair of forceps, and cut it away with scissars. The place, from which it has been removed, must then be carefully probed, in order that no other fragment may be left in it. (Beer. J According to the same author, pieces of iron and steel, which strike the eye so forcibly as to enter it, as well as all other fragments of metals, which are readily oxydated, should be as care- fully removed, as bits of glass; for, the more i > I j f ; i r n : t * i