HEMATOCELE. . This is what Mr. Pott calls the first species of hiematooele, which evidently proceeds from a wound of a vessel of the vaginal tunic. “ Upon the sudden discharge of the fluid, from the bag of an over-stretched hydrocele, and thereby removing all counter-pressure against the sides of the vessels, some of which are be- come varicous, one of them will, sometimes without having been wounded, burst; (hence, the last running of the water from a hydrocele is often bloody.) If the quantity of blood, shed from the vessel so burst, be small, it is soon ab- sorbed again ; and creating no trouble, the thing is not known. But if the quantity be consider- able, it, like the preceding, occasions a new tumor, and calls for a repetition of the operation.” This, Mr. Pott calls the second species: “ which, like the first, belongs entirely to the vaginal coat, and has no concern either with the testicle, or with the spermatic vessels. In both, the bag which was full of water, becomes in a short space of time distended with blood; which blood, if not carried off by absorption, must be dis- charged by opening the containing cyst: but in neither of these can castration (though said to be the only remedy) be ever necessary: the mere division of the sacculus, and the application of dry lint to its inside, will in general, if not always, restrain the hemorrhage, and answer every pur- pose, for which so severe a remedy has been pre- scribed.” With respect to filling the cavity of the tunica vaginalis with lint, I believe few good surgeons cf the present day would consider the measure at all necessary or proper. I have seen three cr four cases of haematocele of the above kind laid open, but never knew the surgeon compelled by the bleeding to cram the tunica vaginalis with lint to the great irritation and in- jury of the testicle itself. On the contrary, after taking out the blood, letting the parts collapse, and-applying the cold lotio plunibi acetatis, for a few hours to the scrotum, by means of linen wet with the application, they substituted for the lotion an emollient poultice, and had recourse to fomentations, saline purgatives, leeches and even venesection, according to circumstances. The next example, pretended by Pott and Ilichter, to be a form of haematocele, is not ad- mitted by Ilichterand, Jourdan (See Diet, ties Sciences Met). T. 20, />. 126.) and other modern surgeons. “ If,” says Mr. Pott, “blood be extra vasated within the tunica albuginea, or proper coat of the testicle, in consequence of a great relaxation, and (as it were) dissolution of part of the vascular compages of that gland, and the quantity be con- siderable, it will afford or produce a fluctuation, to the hand of an examiner, very like to that of an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; allowing something for the different density of the dif- ferent fluids, and the greater depth of the former Uom the surface. “ If this be mistaken for a simple hydrocele, and an opening be made, the discharge will be alood; not fluid, or very thin; not like to blood circulating through its proper vessels; but dark, uid dusky in colour, and nearly of the consistence nf thin chocolate (like to what is most frequently • ound in the imperforate vagina.) The quantity liicharged will he much smaller than was ex- •ectcd Lorn the size of llid tumor; which size 55o will not be considerably diminished. When this small quantity of blood has been so drawn offi the testicle will, upon examination, be found to be much larger than it ought to be; as well as much more loose and flabby; instead of that roundness and resistance arising from an healthy state of the gland, within its firm strong coat, it is soft, and capable of being compressed almost flat, and that generally without any of that pain and uneasiness, which always attend the com- pression of a s^und testicle. If the bleeding ceases upon the withdrawing the cannula (supposing a trocar to have been used) and the puncture closes, a fresh accumulation of the same kind of fluid is soon made, and the same degree of tumefaction is produced, as before the operation : if the orifice does not close, the hemorrhage continues, and very soon becomes alarming. In the two first species, “ the blood comes from the tunica vaginalis, the testis itself being safe, and unconcerned; and the remedy is found, by opening the cavity of the said tunic; but in this, the hemorrhage comes from the substance of the testicle: from the convolutions of the spermatic artery, within the tunica albuginea: the division of the vaginal coat can here do no good; and an incision made into the albuginea can only increase the mischief: the testicle is spoiled, or rendered useless, by that kind of alteration made in it, previous to the extrava- sation ; and castration is the only cure which a patient in such circumstances can depend upon.” I confess, that no good reason appears for arranging cases of the preceding kind with haematocele; for, what are they but diseased testicles ? which have been punctured, either on account of their seeming to contain a fluid, or really having within them cysts filled with a chocolate coloured or other fluid, as I have seen in hundreds of instances of sarcocele, and, what- ever blood is discharged, was not extravasated in the substance of the testes previously to the puncture, but issues as a necessary consequence of that proceeding. However, of the propriety of the practice advised by Mr. Pott, no doubt can be entertained. “ The last species of this disease, noticed by Mr. Pott, arises from a bursting of a branch of the spermatic vein, between the groin and scro- tum, in what is generally known by the name of the spermatic profess. This, which is generally produced by great or sudden exertions of strength, feats of agility, &e. may happen to persons in the best health, whose blood and juices are in the best order, and whose genital parts are free from blemish, or disease. “ The effusion, or extravasation, is made into the cellular membrane, which invests and en- velopes the spermatic vessels, and lias something the appearance of a true hernia. When the ease is clear, and the extravasated blood does not give way to discutient applications, the only- remedy is to .lay the tumor fairly open, through its whole length. If the vessel or breach be small, the hemorrhage may he restrained by mere compression with dry lint, or by the use of styptics; but if it be large, and these means do not succeed, the ligature must he made use of.” I cannot conceive, that, in any case of a mere rupture of one of the spermatic veins, it can ever he justifiable to tie the whole spermatic