COR side ot the com, is to be scraped off with a blunt knife; but, the scraping is to be left off, the moment the patient begins to complain of pain Irom it. The same treatment is to be persisted in, without interruption, until the corn is totally extirpated, which is generally effected in eight ar twelve days. If left off’ sooner, the corn , ^rows again. A multitude of other remedies for curing corns tre recommended. They all possess, more or -ess, an emollient and discutient property. The principal are green wax, soap, mercurial, and semlbch plasters, a piece of green oil-skin, <Scc. They are to be applied to the corn, and renewed' s often as necessary. An infallible composition onsists of two ounces of gum ammoniacum, the j ante quantity of yellow wax, and six drams of erdigrease. In a fortnight, if the corn yet re- main, a fresh plaster is to be applied. It is frequently difficult, and hazardous to cut ut a corn. The whole must be completely taken way, or else it grows again; and the more fre- uently it is partially cut away, the quicker is its rowth rendered. When the skin is moveable, nd, consequently, the corn not adherent to the ibjaccnt parts, its excision may be performed ith facility and safety, but not without pain. .!ut, in the opposite case, either leaving a piece 1 the corn behind, or wounding the parts beneath, xn seldom be avoided. The latter circumstance - ay excite serious mischief. A person, entirely cured of corns, is sure to ■ affected with them again, unless the above entioned causes be carefully avoided. Some Ejects are, indeed, particularly disposed to ive the complaint. There are persons, who for *e wear tight shoes, and take no care of their :et, and, yet, are never incommoded with corns, a the contrary, others are constantly troubled th them, though they pay attention to tliem- lves. Many are for a time vexed with corns, d then become quite free from them, though ■ey continue to wear the same kind of shoes d stockings. 1 Mr. Wardrop recommends cutting, or tearing "ay, as much of the corn as can be done with fety; then keeping the toe for some time in .rm water; and, after the adjacent skin has iso well dried, rubbing the exposed surface of ■ corn with the argentum nitratum, or wetting ' by the means of a camel-hair pencil, with a - ution of the oxy-muriate of mercury in spirit of 1 Either of these applications, two or three ■ ies repeated, he says, will mostly effect a cure. '?e died. Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 140.) How- CUR 349 ever, the use of caustic for the cure of corns is not a new proposal. (See Cullisen’s Syst. Chir. Hodicnnr, Part. 2, 200.) The above account is chiefly taken from Rich- ter’s Arj'angsgrunde tier Wundarzneylunst. B. 1. COUCHING. The depression of the cata- ract, or the introducing of an instrument into the eye, for the purpose of pressing the opaque crystalline lens downward, out of the axis of sight. (Sec dalaract.) COUVRE CHEF. The name of a bandage. (See Banc/ugc.) CRANIUM. For an account of its frac- tures, see Head, Injuries of. CREMOR LITHARGYRI ACETATI. ]y,. Cremoris lactis ?j . Liq. Plumbi. acet. 3j. M. Employed by Kirkland in ophthalmies, and other inflammations. CREPITATION. The crackling noise made in cases of emphysema, when the air is passing from one part of the cellular membrane into another. CREPITUS, (from crepo, to make a noise.) This term is applied by surgeons to the grating sensation, occasioned by the ends of a fracture, when they are moved, and rubbed against each other. A crepitus is one of the most positive symptoms of the existence of such an accident. CUPRI SULPPIAS .(Sulphate of Copper.) Is an escharotic, and an ingredient in several astringent fluid applications, lotions for ulcers, collyria for the eyes, and injections for the urethra. CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. (See Verlebrcc, Disease of.) CYSTITOME. (from xuffif, and to cut.) An instrument made on the same prin- ciple as the pharyngotomus, and invented by M. de la Faye, for opening the capsule of the crys- talline lens. CYSTOCELE. (from yuan, the bladder, and y.yXn, a tumor.) A hernia, formed by a protrusion of the bladder. (See Hernia.) CYSTOTOMIA. (from xycif, the bladder, and T£ju.vw, to cut.) Making an opening into the bladder, for the extraction of a stone or calculus. (See Lithotomy.) CUPPING. (See Bleeding) CURETTE. (French.) An instrument, shaped like a minute spoon, or scoop, invented by Daviel, and used in the extraction 'of the cataract, for taking away any opaque matter, which may remain behind the pupil, immediately after the crystalline has been taken out.