ANEURISM. 16 not burst. Both these patients were in the early stage of pregnancy. {On Diseases of ike Heart, p. ‘236.) The situations, in which aneurisms of the curvature of the aorta burst, are different iu different cases. Sometimes the swelling bursts iuto the cavity of the chest, or that of the peri- cardium, and the patient drops suddenly down. When the coats of the aorta give way within the pericardium, where they only receive a slight external membranous covering, this is apt to be also ruptured at the same time, so as to bring on copious effusion of blood, which oppresses the action of the heart, and produces immediate death. In other examples, the blood is effused into the trachea, or bronchia, and the patient, after violent eoughings and ejections of blood from the mouth, expires. Sometimes, after the tumour has become closely adherent to the lungs, it bursts into the aircells, through which the blood is widely diffused. An example of this termination of the disease was observed by Laennec; who also saw another case, in which, if the patient had lived a little longer, the same occurrence in all probability would have hap- jiened. Ehrliardt says, that he is not aware, that this mode of rupture has been noticed by other writers. (De Aueurpmate Aorta, p. 21, -\(o. Lips. 1820.) In certain cases, the swelling beats its way through the ribs, destroys the vertebrae, and injures the spinal marrow, so that the patient suffers a species of death, somewhat less violent and sudden. But, although aneurisms in the chest do sometimes present at the back, a cir- cumstance, that depends on the particular situa- tion of the disease, (See Pdlctan's Clinique Chirurgicale, Tom. 1, Ohs. 7, p. 84.) they more commonly rise towards the upper part of the breast, where a throbbing tumor occurs, which ha6 caused an absorption of the opposing parts of the ribs and sternum; and sometimes dislo- cated the clavicles. Corvisart saw an instance, in which an aneurism of the aorta had dislocated the sternal extremity of the clavicle; and Duverney makes mention of a case, in which, besides the displacement and injury of the clavicle, the ster- num and scapula were partially destroyed. Guat- tani speaks of an example, in which the clavicle was bent by a large aneurism, of which a portion, as large as a pigeon’s egg, projected above the bone. (1 .until, p. 168.) And ISlorgagni has described a case, where the upper bone of the sternum, the sternal ends of the clavicles, and the adjoining ribs, were destroyed by the pres- sure of a large aneurism of the front of the cur- vature of the aorta, and the disease presented itself externally somewhat in the form of a boil. (Epist. ‘26, art. 9.) The swelling now pulsates in an alarming way. 1 he blood is only retained by a thin covering of livid skin, which is becoming thinner and thinner. At length, a point of the tumor puts on a more conical, thin, and inflamed appearance than the rest; a slough is formed, and, on this becoming nose, the patient is sometimes instantaneously carried off by a sudden gusli of blood. An extraordinary ease of aneurism of the J,jrta is related by j)r. C. W. Wells. The dis- ease, being unattended with any external swelling, it seems, was not comprehended during tli patient’s life-time. The following is an abstract of the symptoms, and particulars of the case. Mr. A. B. a gentle- man, thirty-five years of age, and temperate in his habits, became affected in 1789 with symp- toms, which were thought to denote the approach of pulmonary consumption. These, however, after some time, entirely disappeared. In 1798, he was attacked with a slight hemiplegia, from which he also recovered, with the exception of an inconsiderable sense of coldness in the foot, which had been paralytic. In March 1804, lie complained of being frequently troubled with a noise in his ears, flatulence in his bowels, and pains in his hands and feet, sometimes attended with slight swellings in the same parts. From one, or more of these symptoms, he was never afterwards quite free; but, he did not complain of any unusual feelings in his chest. August 11. 1807, he fatigued himself considerably with walking; ate rather a hearty dinner; and, having refreshed himself with some sleep afterwards, he played about with his children. While thus amusing himself, he was suddenly seized, be- tween eight and nine o’clock, with great oppres- sion in his chest. lie soon afterwards became sick, and, in the matter thrown up, some streaks of blood were observed. lie now went to bed ; but, though the weather was warm, and he was covered with bed-clothes, his skin felt cold to the attendants. At midnight, he laboured under a constant cough, and expectorated mucus tinged with blood. His body was moistened with a cold sweat, and his pulse was extremely feeble; sometimes, it was scarcely perceptible. About five in the morning, his pulse was feeble and irregular; his breathing difficult, his skin pale, and cold, and covered with a clammy sweat. He frequently tossed, and writhed his body, as if he was suffering great pain or uneasiness. The mental faculties, however, seemed unim- paired. Shortly afterwards he expired, having complained, just before his death, of much heat in his chest, and thrown off the bed- clothes. The most remarkable circumstance found on opening the body, is thus recorded: “ The ascending aorta was distended to about the size of a large orange. The tumor adhered to the pulmonary artery, just before its division into the right and Left branches. Within the circum- ference of this adhesion, there was a narrow bole, by means of which a communication was formed between the two arteries."’’ Ur. Wells concludes with observing, that, though such a disease might easily have been imagined, he had found no instance of it in books, and that it had not been observed by any of the surgeons, or anatomists in London. He supposed, that the communication, between the aorta and pulmonary artery, took place on the even- ing before the patient’s death, when the oppres- sion of the chest was first felt: and that, in con- sequence of the superior strength of the left side of the heart, a part of the blood, which was thrown into the aorta, must have been forced into the pulmonary artery, from which circum- stance, he conjectures most of the symptoms originated. {Trans, of a Society jar the hnpron. ’ ’ * ---