106 ANA ANC nels for the conveyance of the blood to the lower extremities have yet been found adequate to that purpose. This was proved in an example where the obstruction had been gradually produced by disease, and the anastomosing vessels of course had had time for enlargement; for, this is a very different case, from that in which a ligature is suddenly applied to the aorta; though, as far as can be deduced from the particulars of some ex- periments made on dogs by Mr. A. Cooper, and of one operation in which this gentleman tied the human abdominal aorta, (Surgical Essays,Part 1 ,p, 101,) blood will still pass to the lower extremities in sufficient quantity for their nutrition. At least, this inference is safely deducible from the very memorable operation to which I have referred, sub- ject to one important condition, viz. that there be no additional cause of impediment to the pass- age of blood, to the lower extremities besides the ligature above the bifurcation of the aorta. When Mr. A. Cooper tied the human aorta in the ab- domen, the experiment was made as the only possible means of hindering a man from bleeding to death, who had a large aneurism of the ex- ternal iliac artery actually beginning to bleed, and extending too high to admit cf any thing else being done. Now, although the unfortu- nate patient was not saved, and it must be acknowledged that the chances of any other re- sult were very small, the case furnished the im- portant proof, that, if the abdominal aorta be •suddenly and completely obstructed, the blood may yet pass in adequate quantity to the lower extremities, prov ded there txisi no other cause of impediment to the passage of the blond into those members ; for, on the side, occupied by the aneu- rism, the circulation in the limb was stopped, while, in the opposite limb, the circulation, and natural warmth were preserved. To this subject, I shall hereafter return. (See Aorta.) The changes, which take place in the arterial system of the limb, when the main artery is rendered impervious by the application of a liga- ture, are well described by Mr. Hodgson : “ The blood, meeting with an obstacle to its progress through the accustomed channel, is thrown in greater quantity, and with greater force, into those branches, which arise above the seat of the obstruction. The ramifications of these branches, in consequence of the unusual influx of blood, undergo a remarkable dilatation ; the more minute vessels also, by which they anasto- mose with corresponding ramifications, arising from branches given off below the obstruction, are from the same cause sufficiently enlarged to allow a free passage of the blood into the inferior trunks of the limb. At first, the circulation is in this manner carried on through a congeries of minute anastomosing arteries: in a short time, a few of these channels become more en- larged, than the rest: as these increase in size, the smaller vessels gradually collapse, and ulti- mately a few large communications constitute permanent channels through which the blood is transmitted to the parts, that it is destined to supply. This is one mode by which a collateral circulation is established. « J3ut, in some situations, more direct and ostensible inosculations arc provided; so that when one channel is obstructed, the blood passes at once through the other in a sufficient stream for the nourishment of the jwrt, which it is de- stined to supply. Under these circumstances, no dilatation of the collateral branches is ne- cessary : the circulation in such instances, may be said to be constantly carried on through in- osculating trunks. These great communications principally exist in the extremities of the body, where the dilating impulse, which the blood re- ceives from the heart, is of course diminished. Thus, the radial artery inosculates freely with the ulnar ; the anterior with the posterior tibial; and the internal carotid with the vertebral arteries. Two modes therefore exist, by which arteries communicate with each other—the anastomoses of minute ramifications, and the direct inoscula- tions of trunks.” (See Hodgson an the Distuses of Arteries and Veins, p. t?34.) Refer also to Inosculation. The best general account of the inosculations, in relation to aneurism, is con- tained in Scarpa’s Treatise on Aneurism; more especially, the Italian edition, which is em- bellished with beautiful engravings. ANCRYLOPS, (from wy/j, near, and u*J, the eye.) Same as -fEgylops. ANCHYLOSIS, (from ayxiAor, crooked.) This denotes an intimate union of two bones, which were naturally connected by a moveable kind of joint. All joints, originally designed for motion, may become anchylosed, that is, the heads of the bones, forming them, may become so consolidated together, that no degree of mo- tion whatever can take place. Bernard Conner (De stupendo ossium coa/itn) describes an in- stance of a general anchylosis of all the bones of the human body. A still more curious fact is mentioned in the Hist, o' the Acad, of Sciences, 1716, of a child 23 months old, affected with an universal anchylosis. In the advanced periods of life, anchylosis more readily occurs, than in the earlier parts of it. The author of the article Anchylosis in the Encyclopedic Mtthudiqne, men- tions his having preserved a specimen, in which the femur is so anchylosed with the tibia and patella, that both the compact and spongy sub- stances of these bones appear to be common to them all, without the least perceptiLle line of separation between them. In old subjects, the same kind of union is commonly observable be- tween the vertebrae, and between these and the heads of the ribs. The greater, or lesser degree of immobility, has caused anchylosis to be distinguished into the true and false. In the true anchylosis, the bones have grown together so completely, that not the smallest degree of motion can take place, and the case is positively incurable. The position, in which the joint has become thus inalterakly fixed, makes a material difference in the inconvenience resulting from the occurrence. The false anchy- losis is that, in which the bones have not com- pletely grown together, so that their motion is only diminished, not destroyed. The true an- chylosis is sometimes termed complete; the false, incomplete. In young subjects in particular, anchylosis is seldom an original affection, but generally the consequence of some other disease. It very often occurs after fractures, in the vicinity of joints; after sprains and dislocations attended with a great deal of contusion ; and after white swell- ings and abscesses in joints. Aneurisms, and