HERNIA. 639 general it demands greater circumspection, on divided the linca alba downwards, to the requi- account of the connexion, or intimate adhesions, site degree, instead of upwards, as in the former which frequently exist between the integuments operation. When the omentum and intestine and hernial sac, and also the adhesions, which are returned, the portion of integument and sac, often prevail between the latter part and the which is left, falls over the opening at the umbi- omentum which it contains. The situation of the licus, covers it, and unites to its edge, and thus intestine which is frequently covered by, and lessens the risk of peritoneal inflammation, by enveloped in the omentum, is another circum- more readily closing the wound.” {On Crural stance deserving earnest attention. (Scarpa, and Umbilical Hernia.) Traite des Hernies, ]). 361, 3‘ii.) less frequent kinds of hernia. Mr Pott is not such an advocate as ocarpa for" the early performance of the operation in The ventral hernia, described by Celsus, is not cases of exomphalos: “The umbilical, like the common ; it may appear at almost any point of minimal hernia, becomes the subject of chirurgic the anterior part of the belly, but is most fre- operation, when the parts are reducible by the quently found between the recti muscles. The hand onlv, and are so bound as to produce bad portion of intestine, &c. is always contained in a symptoms. But though 1 have in the inguinal sac, made by the protrusion of the peritonaeum, and scrotal hernia advised the early use of the Mr. A. Cooper imputes the disease to the dila- knife, I cannot press it so much in this; the tation of the natural foramina for the transmis- success of it is very rare, and I should make it sion of vessels, to congenital deficiencies, lace- the last remedy, indeed, I am much inclined rations, and wounds, of the abdominal muscles, to believe, tha't the bad symptoms which attend or their tendons. In small ventral hernise, a these cases are most frequently owing to dis- second fascia is found beneath the superficial one; orders in the intestinal canal, and not so often to but, in laige cases, the latter is the only one a stricture made on it at the nave:, as is sup- covering the sac. posed. I do not say that the latter does not Hernise in the course of the linea alba some- sometimes happen; it certainly does; but it is times occur so near the umbilicus, that they are often believed to be the case when it is not. liable to be mistaken for true umbilical ruptures. “ When the operation becomes necessary, it They may take place either above, or below the consists in dividing the skin and hernial sac, in navel. The first case, however, is more frequent, such manner as shall set the intestine free from than the second, and the following is the reason stricture, and enable the surgeon to return it into of this circumstance according to the opinion of the abdomen.” (Pott on Ruptures.) Scarpa. “ The upper half of the linea alba, that The rest of the conduct of the surgeon is to which extends from the ensiform cartilage to the be regulated by the usual principles. umbilicus, is naturally broader and weaker, than The division of the stricture is properly re- the lower half, the recti muscles coming nearer commended to be made directly upward, in the and nearer together, as they descend from the course of the linea alba. navel to the pubes.’’ (Scarpa, Traite dcs Hcr- In consequence of the great fatality of the nies, p. 333.) usual operation for the exomphalos, 1 think the The hernial sac of ruptures at the upper part plan suggested, and successfully practised by Mr. of the linea alba may contain a noose of intes- A. Cooper in two instances, should always be tine, and a piece of the omentum, though in adopted, whenever the tumor is large, and free most cases, a portion of the latter membnine from gangrene; apian, that has also received alone forms the contents. In some subjects, the the high sanction of that distinguished anatomist linea alba is so disposed to give way, that seve- and surgeon, Professor Scarpa. (Traite dcs ral hernise are observed to be formed successively Ilernies, p. 362.) Perhaps, I might safely add, in the interspace between the ensiform cartilage that, when the parts admit of being reduced, and the umbilicus. without laying open the sac, this method should “ With respect to the small hernia (says always be preferred, it consists in making an Scarpa) which is considered as formed by the incision just sufficient to divide the stricture, stomach, and concerning which Hoin and Garen- without opening the sac at all, or at all events, geot have written so much (without either of no more of it, than is inevitable. them having related, at least to my knowledge, In umbilical hernise, of not a large size, Mr. a single example proved by dissection,) it is at C. recommends the following plan of operating: least unproved, that it was exclusively formed “ As the opening into the abdomen is placed by this viscus. I do not see, why the other vis- towards the upper part of the tumor, I began the cera, particularly the omentum and transverse incision a little below it, that is, at the middle of colon, might not also contribute to it. In my the swelling, and extended it to its lowest part, judgment, it only differs from other hernise of I then made a second incision at the upper part the linea alba, in being situated on the left side of the first, and at right angles with it, so that of the ensiform cartilage, a situation that must the double incision was in the form of the letter materially influence the symptoms of the case. T, the top of which crossed the middle of the In fact, whatever ma_v be the viscera, which tumor. The integuments being thus divided, form it, a sympathetic irritation of the stomach the angles of the incision were turned down, is occasioned, that is much more intense, than which exposed a considerable portion of the her- that which ordinarily accompanies umbilical her- nia, sac. This being then carefully opened, the nioe, those of the lower part of the linca alba, inger was passed below the intestines to the or, in short, all other hernise, which are more orifice of the sac at the umbilicus, and the probe- remote from the stomach.” (Op. cit. p. 334.) pointed bistoury being introduced upon it, I The following arc said to be the circumstances, directed it into the opening at the navel, and by which the umbilical hernia, and that which