1>4 AMPUTATION. standing every kind of assistance: in these cir- cumstances, it' amputation be not performed, Mr. Pott asks, what else can rescue the patient from destruction ? The third and last period is a matter which does not require much consideration. Too often the inflammation consequent upon the injury, instead of producing abscess and suppuration, tends to gangrene and mortification, the progress of which is often so rapid, as to destroy the pa- tient in a very short space of time, constituting that very sort of case in which amputation should have been immediately performed. But some- times even this dreadful malady is, by the help of art, put a stop to, but not until it has totally de- stroyed all the surrounding muscles, tendons, and membranes quite down to the bone, which, upon the separation of the mortified parts, is left quite bare, and all circulation between the parts above and those below, is by this totally cut off. In this instance, whether the surgeon saw through the bare bone, or leave the separation to be effected by nature, the patient must lose his limb. (See Pott’s Remarks on the Necessity, d-c. of Amputation in certain Cases, d-c. C/iir. Works, not. 3.) For the consideration of a variety of compli- cated cases, which affect the question of amputa- tion in compound fractures, I must refer to the article Gun-shut Wounds. 2. Extensive contused and lacerated wounds. These form the second class of general cases requiring amputation. Wounds without fracture are not often so bad as to require this operation. When a limb, however, is extensively contused and lacerated, and its principal blood-vessels are injured, so that there is rio hope of a con- tinuance of the circulation, the immediate re- moval of the member should be recommended, whether the bones be injured or not. Also, since no effort on the part of the surgeon can preserve a limb so injured, and such wounds are more likely to mortify than any others, the sooner the operation is undertaken the better. In these cases, as in those of compound frac- tures, though amputation may not always be ne- cessary at first, it may become so afterwards. The foregoing observations, relative to the se- cond period of compound fractures, are equally applicable to badly lacerated wounds, unattended with injury of the bones. Sornetirfi.es a rapid mortification comes on ; or a profuse suppuration, which the system can no longer endure. (En- cyctupedic Method'yut; Purtie Chir.t. 1. p. 80.) 3. Cases in which part of a limb has been carried away by a cannon ball. When part of a limb has been torn off by a cannon-ball, or any other cause, capable of pro- ducing a similar effect, the formation of a good and serviceable stump, the greater facility of healing the clean, regular wound of amputation, and the benefit of a far more expeditious as well as of a sounder cure, are the principal reasons which here make the operation advisable. This was an instance, in which some former surgeons disputed the necessity of amputation. They urged as a reason for their opinion, that the limb being already removed, it is better to endeavour to cure the wound as speedily as pos- sible, than increase the patient’s sufferings and danger, by making him submit to amputation. It must be remembered, however, that the bones are generally shattered, and reduced into numerous fragments; the muscles and tendons are un- equally divided, and their ends torn and con- tused. Now, none of the old surgeons ques- tioned the absolute necessity of extracting the splinters of bone, and cutting away the irregular extremities of the tendons and muscles, which operations would require a longer time than am- putation itself. Besides, we should recollect, that, by making the incision above the injured part, so as to be enabled to cover the bone with flesh and integuments, perfectly free from in- jury, the extent of the wound is so diminished, that the healing can be accomplished in one third of the time which would otherwise be requisite, and a much firmer cicatrix is also obtained. Such reflections must convince us, that amputation here holds forth very great advantages. It can- not increase the patient’s danger, and, as for the momentary augmentation of pain, which he suf- fers, he is amply compensated by all the benefits resulting from the operation. See Gun-shot W bunas. 4. Mortification. Mortification is another cause, which, when advanced to a certain degree, renders amputation indispensably proper. We have noticed, that bad compound fractures, and wounds, often ter- minate in the death of the injured limb. Such surgeons as have been determined, at all events, to oppose the performance of amputation, have pretended, that the operation is here totally use- less. They assert, that when the mortification is only in a slight degree, it may be cured, and that when it has spread to a considerable extent, the patient will perish, whether amputation be per- formed or not. But this way of viewing things is so contrary to facts, and the experience of every impartial practitioner, that I shall make no attempt to refute the assertion. While it is allowed that it would be very bad practice, to amputate on every slight appearance of gangrene, it is equally a fact, that when the disorder affects the substance of a member, the operation is ge- nerally the safest and most advantageous measure. Nay, there are, as we shall presently see. certain forms of mortification, in which the early per- formance of amputation is the only chance of saving the patient Practitioners have entertained very opposite opinions, concerning the period when one should operate in cases of mortification. Some pretend, that whenever the disorder presents itself, and especially when it is the effect of external vio- lence, we should amputate immediately the mor- tification has decidedly begun to form, and while the mischief is in a spreading state. O hers be- lieve, that the operation should never be under- taken, before the progress of the disorder has stopped, even not till the dead parts have begun to separate from the living ones. The advocates for the speedy performance of amputation declare, that the further progress of the mortification may be stopped, and the life of the patient preserved, by cutting above the parts affected. However, according to the reports of the greater number of eminent surgical writers,