\222 WOUNDS. strornplie was at least superfluous, if not positively have recovered from wounds in the intestines, hurtful. In the course of a very extensive prac- should ever afterwards he particularly careful not tiee, two cases only have come under my notice, to swallow any hard substances, or indigestible where it was required to a wounded intestine, flatulent food. On this subject, the writings of though frequently it may be needed for injuries to Scarpa are particularly interesting, the parietes.” {OnMilitary Surg. ed. 2,^;.41 I.) In some instances, intestinal matter continues When the protruded intestine is mortified, to be discharged from the outer wound, either in which must be a very rare occurrence in cases of wounds, the treatment should be the same as that of a mortified enterocele. (See Hernia.) As Dr. Hennen observes, in the treatment of wounds of the abdomen, the violence of sym- ptoms is to be combated more by general means, than by any of the mechanical aids of sur- gery. The search for extraneous bodies, un- less superficially situated, or they can be felt with a probe, is entirely out of the question. “ Enlargement, or contraction, of the wound, as the case may require, for returning protruded intestine, securing the intestine itself, and pro- moting the adhesion of the parts, is all that the surgeon must do in the way of operation; and, even in this, the less he interferes the better.’’ (On Military Surgery, ed. 2, p. 401.) ’ The principal indication is to prevent a dangerous degree of inflammation. Hence bleeding and the antiphlogistic treatment are highly indispensable. Let not the surgeon be deterred from such practice, by the apparent de- bility of the patient, his small concentrated pulse, and the coldness of his extremities, symptoms, common in acute inflammation of the bowels, and, in fact, themselves indicating the propriety of repeated venesection. Wounds of the small intestines are attended with more dangerous symptoms, than those of the large ones. All flatulent, stimulating, and solid food, is to be prohibited. The bowels are to be daily emptied with glysters, by which means, no matter will be suffered to accumulate in the intestinal canal, so as to create irritation and distention. When excrementitious matter is discharged part, or entirely, so that either a fistula, or an artificial anus, is the consequence. A fistula is metre apt to follow, when an intestine has been injured by a ball, has been quite cut through, or has mortified. Hut, numerous cases prove, that this is not invariably the consequence, and that a perfect cure has frequently followed each of these occurrences. (See Anus, Artificial.) When an intestine is completely cut through, and the lower portion of the canal lies inacces- sibly concealed in the abdomen, writers insist upon the necessity of promoting the formation of an artificial anus. In this particular case, they recommend fixing the extremity of the in- testine with a fine suture, to the edges of the outer wound. In order to distinguish the upper end of the intestine from the lower, the proposal is sometimes made to give the patient a little milk, and to observe whether the fluid, after a time, issues from the mouth of the protruded gut. In the mean while, fomentations are employed. If the upper end of the intestine be in the abdo- men, these speculative authors even deem it justifiable, when the accident is quite recent, to dilate the outer wound, search for the hidden continuation of the bowel, and then sew the two ends together. Practical surgeons, I believe, are right in at- taching little value to such directions. “ In- deed (says a modern writer), the surgical world have lone since dismissed their fears about the intestine falling inwards, and about the difficul- ties of distinguishing between the right and the wrong end of it. The apprehensions of abdo- minal effusions are now all pretty well subdued. from the outer wound, it is highly necessary to # The occurrence is extremely rare, and, when it clean and dress the part very frequently. Gentle pressure should also be made, with the fingers, at the circumference of the wound, at each time of applying the dressings, for the purpose of promoting the escape of any extravasated mat- ter. For the same reason, the patient should always lie, if convenient, in a posture, that will render the external opening depending. After a day or two, the surgeon need not be afra'd oflctting the outer wound heal up; for the adhesive inflammation, all around the course of the wound, will now prevent any extravasated matter from becoming diffused among the vis- it' the case should end well, the intestine eera. generally undergoes a diminution in its diameter at the place where the wound was situated. When this contraction is considerable, the pa- tient occasionally experiences colic pains at the part, especially after eating such food, as tends to produce flatulence. As these pains usually does happen, we leave the poor wretch to die in peace, without searching after effused fluids, the nature of which cannot be known, or, if known, the information cannot, in the most re- mote degree, lead to recovery. I have never witnessed a case, where any possible good effects could follow the paracentesis ; for peritonitis, in its most exquisite form, has always preceded the symptoms, which would lead to the performance of that operation.” (Hennen on M ilitary Sur-y gcry, Ed. 2, p. 411.) In some instances, musket-balls pass into the abdomen, lodge there a considerable time, and are then voided through the intestinal canal ; while, in other examples, they become encysted, and continue lodged the rest of the patient’s fife, without producing much, or, indeed, any inconvenience. Contusions and other Injuries of the Ahdo- A violent contusion of the abdomen may men.- produce uaiuieiujc# no . . . .Al . ., go entirely off-after a certain time, and no incon- injure the contained viscera, without the °ccur- venience whatsoever remains, the intestine may rence of any external wound. It was in this possibly regain its wonted capacity again. A way, that the liver, or ga l bladder, was nip- more considerable constriction of the above sort tured in the boy mentioned by Mr. 1-ijcr (Med. has been known to occasion a fatal miserere. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4); and that the vena cava •Ryer, tl,e intestine itself has been known to burst was lacerated in the case, which fell under the