DISLOCATION. 882 recovery. The fact clearly proves, as Boyer observes, that, in cases of this description, "the most important object is not to aim at the re- duction, but rather to oppose, by every means in our power, inflammation and its consequences. 1< requently, the use of the catheter is necessary, and, sometimes an incontinence of urine, or the involuntary discharge of the feces, demands the strictest attention to cleanliness. In these cases, if the patient live any time, there is also another source of danger, consisting in a tend- ency to sloughing in the soft parts, on which the patient lies, and, which, when they have been bruised, require still greater vigilance. The os coceygis is not so easily dislocated as fractured. Boyer, however, has seen it dis- placed in a man, who was greatly emaciated by disease. This subject had considerable ulcer- ations about the coccyx, and the bone itself was bare. There was an interspace of nearly two inches, between the sacrum and base of the os coccygis. In proportion as the man regained his strength, the bone recovered its right po- sition, and at length united to the os-sacrum, notwithstanding the action of the levatores ani, which are inserted into it. (Boyer.) This case, however, was not an accidental luxation; and it clearly arose from the destruction of the liga- ments by disease. Authors mention two kinds of dislocation, to which the os coccygis is liable; one, inward; the other, outward. The first is always occa- sioned by external violence; the second, by the pressure of the child’s head in difficult labours. Pain, difficulty of voiding the feces and urine, tenesmus, and inflammation, sometimes ending in abscesses, which interest the rectum, are symptoms, said to attend and follow dislocations of the os occygis. The best authors now regard all schemes for the reduction useless, as the bone will spon- taneously return into its place as soon as the cause of displacement ceases; and the intro- duction of the finger within the rectum, and handling of the painful and injured parts, are more likely to increase the subsequent inflam- mation, and produce abscesses, than have any beneficial effect. In short, the wisest plan is to be content with enjoining quietude, and adopting antiphlogistic measures. dislocation of the ribs. J. L. Petit was silent on this subject, as he thought such cases never occurred. Since his death, a French surgeon, Buttet, has related an instance, which he supposed to be a dislocation of the posterior extremity of the rib from the vertebrae; but Boyer clearly proves, that there were no true reasons for this opinion, and that the case was only a fracture of the neck, or end of the bone, near the spine. (Traits de Mai. Cliir. T. 4, p. 123.) Ambrose Pare, Barbette, Juncker, Platner, and Heister, not only admit the occurrence of luxations of the ribs, but describe different spe- cies of them. Lieutaud also extended the term luxations to cases, in which the head of the rib is separated by disease, the pressure of aneurisms, Si c. In a modern work may be read the particulars of a case, where all the ribs arc said to have been dislocated from their cartilages. The accident arose lrom the chest being violently compressed between the beam of a mill and the wall. In such a case, there is no means of reduction, ex- cept the effect produced by forcible inspira- tions ; nor are there any modes of relief, but bleeding, and the application of a roller round the chest. (See C. Bell's Surg. Obs. p. 171.) DISLOCATIONS OF THE THIGH-BONE. The head of the thigh-bone may be dislocated upwards on the dorsum of the ilium; upwards and forwards on the body of the os pubis; down- wards and forwards on the foramen ovale; and backwards on the ischiatic notch. The dislocation upwards and backwards, and that downwards and forwards, are the most fre- quent. The common kind of dislocation of the thigh- bone upwards, on the dorsum of the ilium, is at- tended with the following symptoms. The thigh is shorter than its fellow, a little bent, and carried inwards. The knee inclines more for- wards and inwards than the opposite one; the leg and thigh are turned inwards, and the foot points in this direction ; the toe resting, as Mr. A. Cooper remarks, against the tarsus of the other foot. (Surgical Essays, Part 4, p. 27.) There is an approximation of the trochanter ma- jor to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and at the same time it is elevated and carried a little forwards. It is also less pro- minent, than that cn the opposite side, and the natural roundness of the hip has disappeared. The natural length of the limb cannot be re- stored, without reducing the luxation: the foot cannot be turned outwards, and any attempt to do so causes pain; but, the inclination of the foot inwards maybe increased. (Buyer.) When an attempt is made to draw the leg away from the other, it cannot be accomplished; but the thigh may be slightly bent across its fellow. A dislocation on the dorsum of the ilium is generally at once readily discriminated from a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament, by the rotation of the limb in- wards ; a position, which is unusual in a fracture of any part of the os fiemoris. “ In a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone (says Mr. A. Cooper) the knee and foot are generally turned outwards : the trochanter is drawn backwards: the limb can be readily bent towards the abdo- men, although with some pain; but, above all, the limb, which is shortened from one to two inches by the contraction of the muscles, can he made of the length of the other by a slight ex- tension, and when the extension is abandoned, the leg is again shortened. If, when extended, the limb is rotated, a crepitus can often be felt, which ceases when rotation is performed under a shortened state of the iimb. The fractured neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular liga- ment, rarely occurs but in advanced age, and it is the effect of the most trifling accidents, owing to the absorption, which this part of the bone undergoes at advanced periods of life. Frac- tures external to the capsular ligament occur at any age ; but generally in the middle periods of life; and these are easily distinguished by the crepitus, which attends them, if the limb ;