2*6 BLEEDING. vessel were very much swollen, red, nnd painful, and there was a good deal offerer, with a rapid pulse, and lurred tongue. The vein did not swell, when compressed above the diseased part. In another instance, the inflammation of the vein did not extend towards the heart, but only downward, in which direction it extended as far as the wrist. The treatment is to lessen the inflammation of the vein, by the same means, which other inflam- mations require, and to keep the affection f om spreading along the membranous lining of the vessel, towards the heart, by placing a compress over the vein, a little way above the puncture, so as to make the opposite sides of the vessel ad- here together. Mr. Abernethy can conceive a case, in which the vein may even suppurate, and a total divi- sion of the vessel be proper, not merely to obviate the extension of the local disease, but to prevent the pus from becoming mixed with the circulation. Were such a proceeding deemed riirht, I think Mr. Brodie’s method of cutting the vessel would behest. However, I have never heard of any case, in which the practice has been adopted. As for the scheme of tying the vein above the diseased part of it, the severe effects frequently following this method, must, as Mr. Dunn has reminded me, render it less eligible, than incision. 5. Inflammation of the Fascia of the Fore-Arm. Sometimes, in consequence of the inflamma- tion arising from the wound of the lancet in bleeding, the arm becomes very painful, and can hardly be moved. The puncture often re- mains unhealed, but without much inflammation of the surrounding integuments The fore-arm and lingers cannot be, extended without great pain. The integuments are sometimes affected with a kind of erysipelas; being not very painful, when slightly touched, but when forcibly com- pressed, so as to affect the inferior parts, the patient suffers a good deal. The pain f'req ently extends towards the axilla and acromion . no swelling, however, being perceptible in either direction. These symptoms are attended with considerable fever. After about a week, a small superficial collection of matter sometimes takes place a little below the internal condyle: this being opened, a very little pus is discharged, and there is scarcely any diminution of the swelling or pain. Perhaps, after a few days more, a fluctuation of matter is distinguished be- low the external condyle, and this abscess being opened, a great deal of matter gushes from the wound, the swelling greatly subsides, and the patient’s future sufferings are comparatively trivial. The last opening, however, is often inade- quate to the complete discharge of the'matter, which is sometimes originally formed beneath the fascia, in the course of the ulna, and its pointing at the upper part of the arm depends on the thinness of the fascia in this situation. The colleciiori ofpus descends under thelowcr part of the detached fascia, and a depending opening for its discharge becomes necessary. This being made, the patient soon gets well. In these cases, neither the vein nor the ab- sorbents appear inflamed. The integuments arc not much affected, and the patient complains of a tightness of the fore-arm. Matter does not i always form, and the pliability of the arm, after ji a good while, gradually returns again. Mr. Watson relates a case, which was followedi by a permanent contraction of the fore-arm. Mr. j Abernethy is of opinion, that a similar contrac-j lion of the fore-arm, from a tense state of the] fascia, may be relieved by detaching the fascial from the tendon of the biceps, to which it is] naturally connected. Mr. Watson seems to] have obtained success in bis first case, by having j| cut this connexion. The treatment of an inflamed fascia, in con- I sequence of venesection, has in it no peculiarity. J General means for the cure of inflammation j should be employed. The limb should be kept! quiet, and the inflamed part relaxed. As soon] as the inflammation abates, the extension of the] fore-arm and fingers ought to be attempted, and! daily performed, to obviate the contraction, which I might otherwise ensue. (Abernethy.) Mr. Charles Bell objects to calling the aflee-l tion an inflammation of the fascia, because he] sees no proof of this part being inflamed, and he] conceives that the symptoms proceed front the! inflammation spreading in the cellular membrane, ] and passing down among the muscles, nnd under i the fascia. The fascia acts as a bandage, and j from the swelling of the parts beneath, it binds, the arm, but is not itself inflamed, and contracted.! When necessary to divide the fascia. Mr. Charles! Bell thinks it would be better to begin an inci- sion near the inner condyle of the humerus, and j to continue it some inches down the arm. rather than perform t he nice, if not dangerous opera- tion, of cutting tiie fascia, at the point, where the { expansion goes off'from the round tendon of the 8 biceps. When the elbow joint and forearm continue stiff after all inflammation is over, Mr. C. Bell recommends frictions with camphorated mercu- rial ointment, &c. and the arm to he gradually brought into an extended state by placing a splint on the fore part of the limb. (Opiruitvc Sue- I gcry, Vo'. }, p. 05.) 6. Ill Ci hi sequent res of a IVomule't A erne. Mr. Abernethy informs us, that Mr. Pott used to mention two cases, in which the patients had! suffered distracting pains, followed by ronvul-; sions and other symptoms, which could only be ascribed to nervous irritation, arising from a par- f tial division of the nerve, and he recommended | its total division, as a probable remedy. Dr. 1 Monro related similar cases, in which such treat- i ment proved successful. Hence, it is highly necessary to know the I characteristic symptoms of the case, particularly, as all the foregoing cases would be exasperated =i by the treatment just now alluded to. It is te ft Mr. Abernethy that we arc indebted for several valuable remarks elucidating this subject. He f informs us, that the two cutaneous nerves are f those which arc exposed to injury. Most Ire* * qticntiy till their branches pass beneath the veins, at the bend of the arm ; but sometimes, although j tlic chief rami go beneath these vessels, many •. small li.aments are detached over them, which jt j is impossible to avoid wounding in phlebotomy. Mr. Abernethy thinks the situation of the [