URINARY ABSCESSES. 1093 penis, you will most probably get into the sound urethra, before you come to the instrument, or new passage. If so, introduce a probe into the urethra, through the wound, and pass it towards the glaus penis, or, in other words, towards the stricture. When it meets with an obstruction, this must be the stricture, which is now to be got through, and afterwards dilated. To com- plete the operation, withdraw the probe, and, instead of it introduce a hollow cannula forwards to the stricture. Then introduce another can- nula from the glans downward, till the two tubes . are opposite each other, having the stricture be- tween them. An assistant is now to take hold of the urethra on the outside, with his finger and thumb, just where the two cannulae meet, in order to keep them in their places. Through the upper cannula next introduce a piercing in- strument, which is to perforate the stricture, and enter the lower cannula. The piercing instru- ment is now to be withdrawn, and a bougie in- troduced through the first cannula and stricture, into the second cannula. The tubes are to be withdrawn, and the end of the bougie, in the wound, directed into the bladder, through the further portion of the urethra. It may also be necessary to lay the whole of the false passage open, in order to make it heal; for otherwise, it might still obstruct the future passage of bougies into the proper canal. When the new passage is between the skin and urethra, the surgeon must extend his inci- sion more deeply, for the purpose of finding out “the natural passage. Then he is to proceed as lbove explained. The longer the first bougie is allowed to re- main in the canal, the more readily will the second pass. The bougies must be gradually ncreased in size, and used till the wound is lealed. The only improvement, which seems iroper to be made in this plan, is to employ iexible gum catheters, which might be worn onger than common bougies, as the patient :ould void his urine through them. • (See rfnnter on the Venereal Disease.) Additional )hscrvutions on this subject arc contained in he ‘2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery. URINARY ABSCESSES. Extravasations •f urine may be in three different states. This luid may be collected in a particular pouch; it tiny be widely diffused in the cellular membrane; • t, lastly, it may present itself in a purulent arm, after having excited inflammation and uppuration in the parts, amongst which it is si- aated. This case is termed an urinary abscess. Such extravasations of urine always imply a upture, either in the kidnies, or ureters, the ladder, or the urethra. The solution of con- inuity may be produced by a variety of causes, t is most frequently the effect of a forcible utention of these passages, in consequence of retention of urine. The bursting of phleg- lonous abscesses, into the same passages, may ccasion the breach. It may also be produced y the penetration of the parts with a sword, or ther foreign body: there are likewise examples f '-‘(fusion of urine foom the displacement of the aunula of the trocar, after the operation of uncturing the bladder. Others arc caused by 1 *® Plages in the urethra; or by violent con- tusions of the perineum, attended with laceration of the urethra. In Desault's Surgical Works, (T. 3.) it is observed, that the ravages, which extravasated urine makes, are usually greater, and more ex- tensive, when it enters the cellular membrane, than when it is confined in a particular cyst. The mischief is also less, when the excretorv passage is free, than when it is closed by any obstacle, as in cases of retention. The more or less loose texture of the parts, in which such effusions happen, likewise makes a considerable difference in their progress and formation. When the pelvis, or infundibulum of the kidney, or the upper part of the ureter, gives way, the urine is commonly effused in the loins and the fossae iliacae, between the peritoneum and the adjacent parts. When the lower part of the ureter, or the bladder, near its lower portion, gives way, the extravasation is generally included within the pelvis. But, when the rupture occurs in the anterior parietes of the bladder, near its upper part, and, especially, when it takes place at a time, when this organ is extremely distended and dilated, the urine becomes effused behind and above the pubes, sometimes ascends to the epigastric region, be- tween the peritoneum and the abdominal mus- cles, and, after having followed the course of the spermatic vessels, it often makes its exit at the ring, and is extravasated in the groins and scrotum. If the rupture has happened in the urethra, the most common situation of the effu- sion is in the perineum and scrotum. The ex- travasation frequently extends to the penis and upper part of the thighs, and even sometimes propagates itself, under the skin of the abdomen, up to the hypochondria and sides of the chest. There is no fluid, the extravasation of which is so fatal, as that of the urine. If it is not promptly discharged, it soon excites suppura- tion and sloughing of the cellular membrane, a gangrenous inflammation of the skin, and almost always a mortification of the parts, amongst which it flows. While the extravasation of urine is confined to the interior of the pelvis, and lumbar and iliac regions, without manifesting itself exter- nally, there is no certain sign of its existence. The circumstances, which may be recollected, however, joined with the symptoms, which the patient complains of, may lead to a suspicion of the extravasation. Thus, when in consequence of a retention of urine in the ureters, or bladder, the patient has suddenly’ experienced great relief, without any of the urine having been discharged the natural way; when he has at the same in- stant felt a kind of pricking in the loins, or pelvis; when to the ease, which lasted only a few hours, symptoms, more severe than the for- mer ones, have succeeded, such as violent fever, hiccough, vomiting, &c. an internal extravasa- tion is to be suspected. . As soon as the extravasation is apparent ex- ternally, the case is announced by symptoms, which hardly ever deceive. The preceding re- tention of urine ; the sudden appearance of the swelling caused by this fluid ; the rapid progress of the tumor; the kind of crepitation perceptible in it, like that which occurs in emphysema; the