SCROPHULA. 9b'5 of different parts to the disease “ is altered by age: thus, in children, the upper lip, eyes, glands of the neck, and those of the mesentery, are generally the parts first affected; the lungs, bones, and other parts, being subsequently at- tacked. It happens sometimes too in children, that small lumps form under the skin in various parts of the body, which suppurate, ulcerate, and pursue the same course with scrophulous ab- scesses in general.” (On the Nature and Treatment of Scrophula, p. 5.) The same gentleman likewise states, that, a species of warts also often forms about the face and neck of children of a scrophulous habit, but seldom in adults. “ In more advanced age, the eyes, up- per lip, and lymphatic glands are comparatively seldom affected; while the lungs, the other vis- cera, and the spongy parts of the bones are fre- quently attacked.” Scrophula is also as hereditary as any disease can be; that is to say, it is so as far as any par- ticular kind of temperament, or constitution, can descend, more or less completely, from parents to children. Mr. White, Dr. Henning, and others have strongly censured calling the dis- ease hereditary ; but their observations only lead to these conclusions, that children, born of scrophulous parents, are hot invariably affected with scrophulous diseases; and that sometimes, one child has some strumous affection, while the parents, and all the rest of the family, have no appearance of scrophulous habits. How- ever, I still conceive that neither Mr. White, nor any other writer will maintain the opinion, that scrophula does not much more frequently afflict the children of scrophulous parents, than the offspring of persons, who have always been perfectly free from every tendency to any form of this affliction. Too numerous are the facts which occur to my own mind, to allow me to entertain the smallest doubt, that scrophula runs very much in certain families. In this sense, I think the term hereditary perfectly accurate and allowable. But, at the same time, I beg the reader to understand, that I have no intention of questioning what seem to be irrefragable truths, viz. that the children of scrophulous parents often continue, as long as they live, entirely free from the disease; and that one child is some- times afflicted, while its father, mother, brothers, sisters, and all the rest of its relations, have never had any tendency to strumous disorders. It should also be recollected, that the doctrine of a congenital tendency to the disease in par- ticular families is one which interferes with some theories, which have been offered about the pre- disposing cause of the disease, as for instance with that of Dr. Henning, who declares that such cause is foreign to the body, and depends upon peculiarities of climate ; (On the Pathology oj Scrophula, p. 6<), dSfc.) an opinion, which is incorrect only in respect to its exclusion of the influence of other circumstances. Two curious specimens of tuberculated lungs in the fetus are preserved in Mr. Langstaff’s museum, and iave been adduced by Mr. Lloyd, as positive prools of scrophula being hereditary, (On Scro- p mla, p. 23;) however, I am not certain, that t 'ey will be admitted ns such by all parties, as tubercles of the lungs are not constantly re- garded as a scrophulous disease. When scrophula does not actually take place at a very early period of life, it is generally stated by writers, that the particular constitutions, in which there is a disposition to the disease, are, in a certain degree, distinguishable. In the individuals, possessing the disposition in ques- tion, a peculiar softness and flaccidity of fibre are remarkable; their hair is more frequently light coloured than dark; and their eyes are said to be more often of a blue, than any other colour. Their skin is generally very fine, and even handsome, boih in regard to its outward texture and complexion. Subjects with scro- phulous constitutions frequently have a thicken- ing of the upper lip ; this swelling is sometimes very considerable, and occasionally extends as far as within the nostrils. Scrophula is also very often complicated with rachitis, or follows the latter affection; but, there is as little reason for supposing rickets to arise from scrophula, as this latter from rickets. In some instances, however, the complexion is dark, and the skin coarse; but, in these subjects, at least when young, the face is generally tumid, and the look unhealthy. (Burns on Inflammation, Vol. 2, p. 2.32.) In many instances, the last joints of the fin- gers have been observed to be enlarged, and the belly is generallv larger, than usual. (Thomson, p. 13d.) Mr. White, as I think, with some appearance of truth, denies that grey, or blue eyes, light hair, and a fair complexion, ought to be considered as marks of a scrophulous disposition; for the ma- jority of children in this country have light hair, and eyes while young, which become darker as they advance in life. Now, as the majority of scrophulous patients are children, and young sub- jects, and as most children in this country have naturally the kind of hair and eyes above de- scribed, it seems inaccurate to lay any stress on persons affected with struma, or predisposed to this disease, having such appearances. (See White on the Struma or Scrofula, p. 38, Ed. 3.) However, it is to be recollected, that the greater frequency of scrophula in fqir people is noticed in France, where the eyes are mostly dark. Thus, Alibert, in his description of a patient dis- posed to the disease, takes notice of his swelled nostrils and upper lip; his florid complexion ; his fair, delicate, glossy skin; his cheeks of a lively red colour; circumscribed,however, by a pallid bloatedness of the rest of the face. His blue eyes; dilated pupils ; light hair; short neck; large head and lower jaw; flabby flesh; large, protuberant belly; strong intellectual powers, the. (Nosol. Naturelle, p. 442 ; also, Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 50, p. 281.) Dr. Thomson expressly declares, that some of the worst cases of scrophula, which he has seen, occurred in persbns, whose complexion and hair were of a very dark colour. (Lectures, p. 134.) Another fact, which 1 think tends to impeach the accuracy of the common doctrine about complexion, is the circumstance ol so many negroes being afflicted in this country with scrophula in its worst forms. Does not this fact indicate, at the same time, that it is climate, which is most powerfully concerned in the production of the disease; since the African black, in his own country, is nearly exempt from scrophula? After all, however, as the disease is