825 MORTIFICATION. slouching ulcers are usually treated by Sir A. Cooper with the nitric acid lotion, 50 drops to a quart of water, and the internal exhibition of the subearbonate of ammonia. The cases also termed slouching ph aged am a by Mr. Welbank, and considered by him as analogous to hospital gangrene, may be cured by dressing them with die undiluted nitric acid. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11.) 1 conceive, that it has only jeen in hospital gangrene, and other cases of slouching phagedenic ulcers, that various acids, diluted, or undiluted, other caustic substances, aud the actual cautery, have sometimes proved reallv serviceable. The muriatic acid, diluted with six times its quantity of water, was parti- cularly recommended by Van Swieten, who ap- plied it after making scarifications. In this manner, he stopped a sloughing disease extend- ing all over the scrotum and penis. This author strongly recommends the same topical applica- tion to the sloughy state of the gums in cases of scurvy. In this kind of case, he mixed the muriatic acid with honey, in various proportions; sometimes, he even employed the pure acid itself for touching the parts, which were likely to slough. It is also by supposing, that the dis- eases, referred to, were of a phagedenic charac- ter, that I account for the good effects, imputed by Dr. Kirkland and others, in cases of morti- fication, to another still more active caustic, namely, a solution of mercury in nitrous acid, with which the edges of the living flesh were touched. At all events, if the diseases were common cases of sloughing, I infer, that such remedies were not really necessary, and that na- ture triumphed both over the disease aud the supposed remedy. The following is a case, re- lated by Dr. Kirkland: A man met with a fracture of the fore-arm, and the ends of the bones projected through the integuments. The fracture was very expedi- tiously reduced; but, at the end of five, or six days, the whole arm seemed to be completely mortified up to the shoulder. Amputation was performed as near the joint as possible, and the stump, which had mortified as far as the acro- mion, was cauterised. The following day the mortification had reached the inferior extremity of the scapula A little of the solution of mer- cury in nitrous acid was now applied, by means of a probe, along the edges of the parts affected, and from this moment the disorder made no fur- ther progress. This cauterizing was repeated every day, for seventeen or eighteen days. The sloughs, and even the scapula itself, were de- tached, and the patient got well. On the continent, liquid caustics are some- times used as topical applications to gangrenous diseases, more especially, however, in cases of hospital gangrene, and malignant carbuncle. Of (his last disorder, Larrey has recorded a very dangerous example, in which he effected a cure by first cutting away as much of the sloughs as JKjssible, and then applying to the disorganized surface underneath liquid caustics. Under the use of emollients, two persons had already fallen victims to the disease in the same family. (See de Chirurgie Milltairc, Tom. 1, p. W'di respect to the actual cautery, Celsus iccommended it to be applied to the line, which separates the dead parts from those which are still living, whenever medicines, and, particularly, topical emollient applications failed in stopping the progress of the disorder. Pouteau ventured to revive this practice, which had been entirely ex- ploded from modern surgery, and lye was of opi- nion, that the method would have the most be- neficial effects, in cases of erysipelatous gan- grene, which is so often seen in hospitals, in consequence of wounds. For this purpose, he recommends cauterizing chiefly the edges of such parts, as are of a dark red colour, and .are on the point of perishing; and he advises this to be done with a heated iron, or boiling oil, and to repeat the cauterizing of the dead parts, at every time of dressing them, until the sensation of heat is even felt with a certain degree of force in the sound parts. The whole of the affected part is afterwards to be covered with a large emollient poultice. Pouteau relates a case of anthrax, which took place on a woman’s cheek, and which he cured in the above manner. The tumor, which, on the third day, was quite black, and as large as a walnut, was accompanied by an erysipelatous oedema, which extended over the whole cheek, eyelids, and front of the neck. Pouteau, after having opened the tumor in different directions with a lancet, introduced the red hot cautery, and repeated the application several times, until the heat was felt by the sound flesh. The pa- tient felt herself very much relieved immediately after this had been done; an oppressive head- ach, and a very afflicting sense of strangulation, which she had before experienced, were got-rid of, and, in ten days more, the slough was detached on the occurrence of suppuration. (Encyclo- pedic Methodique, Partic 'Chirurgicalc, Art. Gangrene.) But, perhaps, of all the species of mortifica- tion, the hospital gangrene is that, for which the use of caustics and the actual cautery itself, has had the most numerous and respectable advo- cates. The heated iron is even now employed by the first surgeons of Paris for this particular case. (See Sketches of the Medical Schools of Purls by J. Cross, p. 84, and Hospital Gan- grene.) The foregoing observations are introduced into this work, that the reader may not be left entirely ignorant of what violent measures have been adopted in cases of mortification, and the account is not given, in order that such practice may be again imitated, with the exception per- haps of certain cases of phagedoena and hospital gangrene, cases, in which the most powerful local applications seem indispensable. (See Hospital Gangrene, and Nitric Acid.) The common employment of these terrible applications, viz. the actual cautery, the undiluted mineral acids, and boiling oils, is as unscientific, and unneces sarily painful, as it is unproductive of any essen- tial good. The grand object in almost every case of mortification, is to diminish the irritation of the parts in immediate contact with those al- ready dead. This is indicated, lest the parts still alive, and so situated, should expeiience the same fate, as the contiguous ones. In most of the other cases specified by Dr. Thomson my experience leads me to prefer emollient soothing applications, none of which are stronger than