873 OPHTHALMY. re of opium, the most effectual means of spersing it. Through large wounds, penetra- te the cornea near its edge, a fold of the iris ;mt to protrude, and, when it does, it should replaced, which can only be effected without schief to the eye by gently rubbing the upper elid. and then letting a strong light suddenly ike the organ. In this case, the employment instruments is considered by Beer highly ob- tionable. When the iris is not immediately duced, it as well as the cornea is attacked with I tlammation, and soon becomes firmly adherent the edges of the wound. (See Ins, Pro- i -psus of the.) | Large wounds penetrating the eyeball, and .iching to the iris, are always of a very serious, ! ture, even though the latter part may have cceived only a prick, or cut, because as the jury has been produced by accident, and not • art, the wound of the iris cannot be free from . laceration and contusion. It is incredible, ys Beer, what extensive injuries the iris will *ar in healthy individuals at its pupillary and liary edges, especially when produced by very larp instruments; nay, rents may happen at both 5 edges, without any ill consequences, if the institution be favourable; a proof of which fact . seen in the two common methods of forming 1 artificial pupil, viz. the excision of a piece of e iris, and the detachment of the iris from the liary ligament, as practised both by Schmidt id Scarpa. But, according to Beer, all violent essure, or actual contusion, particularly when affects the portion of this organ between its 'o circles, cannot be borne even in the best con- ; itutions, and the least grievous consequence inflammation, soon followed by a partial, or ' implete closure of the pupil, or suppuration in te eyeball. When the instrument, causing i ach injury, passes to the iris through the cor- ea, as is mostly the case, and the wound in the •.tier tunic is extensive, the torn iris is frequently ulled between the edges of the wound, at the icment when the weapon is withdrawn, and pro- udes in a lacerated state. In this case, Beer ecommends the torn projecting piece of the •is to be cut away with scissars -close to the ound in the cornea, when, the rest, he says, is enerally retracted within the eye. Thus, an dhesion of the iris to the cornea, termed sync- hia anterior, may often be prevented, which, 'hen the lacerated iris is suffered to hang out of he cornea, is inevitable, surrounded by a large paque cicatrix. Some violent blows on the eye, though they ause no wound, are attended with such a con- ussion of the anterior hemisphere of the organ, hat more or less of the iris is instantaneously eparated from the part of the ciliary ligament, vhere the force is most vehement. The conse- juence of this accident is either a double pupil, it the natural pupil closes, and the artificial one einains open. Such injuries may be produced >y the lash of a whip, or a horse’s tail, (a eom- non accident in the narrow streets of Vienna,) jr the thrust of any bluntish weapon against the outer part of the cornea; and they nre purposely •n icted in the method of forming an artificial lT; recommended both by Schmidt and Scarpa. ounds, which enter the eye through the a. erotica near the cornea, usually produce a con- siderable effusion of blood in the chambers of the aqueous humour; but, Beer thinks that there is never any necessity for making an opening for its discharge at the lower part of the cornea, except when it is so considerable as completely to hide the iris, at the same time, that the eye- ball is affected with very painful tension and hardness. In all wounds of the iris, it is like- wise proper to follow the same treatment as ap- plies to penetrating wounds of the cornea, with this difference, that when the effusion of blood in the chambers of the eye is considerable, the action of the absorbents should be promoted by the immediate employment of vinous aromatic col- lyria, and afterwards warm spirituous lotions. Wounds of the eyeball, affecting the corpus ciliare, are set down by Beer as extremely dan- gerous, independently of the inflammation, which quickly follows. However, such injuries are most serious, when they consist in a real contusion, or laceration of the corpus ciliare, which can hardly take place without a severe concussion, or actual disorganization of the retina, and laceration of the principal ciliary nerves and vessels. Hence, be- sides an effusion of blood in the chambers of the aqueous humour, a partial, or complete amaurotic blindness is instantly produced, and the iris, in the vicinity of the place where the instrument entered, is so retracted towards the margin of the cornea, that neither of its circles can be seen. In cases of this description, it also frequently happens, says Beer, that the patient, or the person who inflicted the wound, suddenly and roughly pulls the weapon out of the eye again, and together with it a part of the corpus ciliare, which is thfen to be regarded as an extraneous sub- stance, and immediately cut off. With respect to the prognosis and treatment, the observations already made on these topics, in reference to wounds of the iris, are here quite applicable, ex- cepting that as the effused blood is less copious, than in the latter cases, there can never be here any necessity for letting it out by a depending opening in the cornea. Wounds of the eye, affecting the crystalline lens, are not unfrequently followed by the forma- tion of a cataract, and so are blows on the eye, which may be supposed to produce this effect by destroying some of the minute nutrient vessels naturally connecting the capsule with the lens. (7?ccr, B. I, p. 218.) The treatment of these accidents resembles that of injuries of the iris, except, that the surgeon has rarely any ex- travasation of blood to deal with. However, when the lens has slipped into the anterior chamber, Beer recommends its immediate ex- traction through an incision in the cornea, in order to prevent the eye from being destroyed by a violent attack of tratimatic inflammation and suppuration. Nor when inflammation has come on, should this measure be postponed, as Beer has constantly found the disorder lessen, after the lens has been taken out. Considerable wounds of the eye, attended with loss of the vitreous humour, are described by Beer, as of a very serious nature; but, they rarely take place accidentally, being almost always the consequence of a surgical operation. Accidental injuries of this kind are generally combined with so large, or complete a discharge of the vitreous humour, and with such mischief to