TESTICLE. 1018 chord, too frequently deprives the patient of every chance of getting well. I have already stated, that some of the most simple sarcomatous enlargements of the testicle are capable of assuming, in a very sudden man- ner, a malignant, and cancerous tendency; and that sometimes the scirrhous induration of the chord makes a rapid progress upward. Hence, that surgeon acts with prudence, who recom- mends the early extirpation of every testicle, which is incurably diseased, and so deprived of its original organization, as to be totally unfit tor the secretion of the semen. Chronic enlargements of the testicle are some- times attended with an accumulation of limpid fluid in the tunica vaginalis, and the disease is then termed, liydrosarcocele, an appellation first employed by Fabricius ab Aquapendente. The hardness and swelling of the epididymis, remaining after an acute inflammation of the testicle (see Hernia Humoralis,) do not con- stitute a complaint, which surgical authors class with sarcocele; for, the disease hardly ever in- creases so as to give trouble. I have stated, that sarcoceles, in common with the generality of other sarcomatous tumors, may change into distempers, which, in point of malig- nity, and the manner in which they injure the health, are quite as bad as cancer itself. It is said, however, that sarcocele of the epididymis rarely becomes malignant, and is much more easy of cure, than the same disease of the glandular portion of the testicle; but both parts are often diseased together. Sarcoceles sometimes continue for years, without undergoing any particular change; in other instances, they increase with surprising rapidity. The inconveniences, which they ex- cite, often proceed chieliyfrom their weight and magnitude: their weight occasions an uneasy, and even a painful sensation in the loins, espe- cially, when the patient neglects to wear a sus- pensory bandage, or a bag-truss for the support of the part. The danger of a sarcocele arises from the increase and extension of the hardness up the spermatic chord, and from the change of'the tumor from its indolent state into a pain- ful, ulcerated, and incurable disease. A sarcocele sometimes bears a resemblance to hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. It sometimes has the usual pyramidal shape of the latter dis- ease, and, like it, is always situated at the lower end of the spermatic chord. The chief difference between the two cases seems to be, that the sar- cocele is hard, while the hydrocele has a soft, yielding, elastic feel. It should be known, how- ever, that the fungus hsematodes of the testicle is remarkable for the deceitful feel of fluctuation and elasticity, which it presents; and everysur- geon ought to be aware, that a sarcocele is not always particularly hard, and that hydroceles are sometimes exceedingly indurated. The sarco- cele, indeed, is not transparent; neither is the hydrocele in certain instances ; and these are cases, in which a mistake may easily be made. Still, with due attention, both diseases^ may be discriminated with tolerable precision. I lie sar- places, than others. The hydrocele presents the same kind of feel at every point, except behind, where the testicle is felt. When, in the case of hydrocele, pressure is made in this latter situation, the patient experiences a much more acute sen- sation, than when the pressure is made upon any other part of the tumor; but, in the example of sarcocele. the patient commonly has the same kind of feel, let the pressure be applied to any part of the swelling whatsoever. When the upper portion of the spermatic chord can be felt, and it seems quite hard and thickened, the sur- geon has reason for suspecting the case to be a sarcocele. Last!}', though a hydrocele, when gently handled, may seem very hard, yet, on being more strongly compressed, it will gene- rally betray a soft, elastic feel, which, excepting instances of fungus haematodes, is never the case with an indurated sarcocele. It has been already explained, that a sarcocele is sometimes conjoined with a hydrocele, which case is well known amongst surgeons bv the appellation of hydro-sarcocele. As the diseased testicle is then surrounded with fluid, it cannot be felt and examined by the fingers. How- ever, when an unusual degree of hardness is per- ceptible at the back part of the tumor, where the testicle is situated, or when the upper portion of the spermatic chord is found to be quite indu- rated, there is reason for suspecting, that the testicle is diseased. The sarcocele also is com- monly the original and principal complaint, the hydrocele not occurring till some time after the enlargement of the testicle. the In some unusual cases, the substance of scrotum is converted into an indurated mass, which occasionally attains a vast size, and pre- sents the appearance of an enormous sarcocele. An example in which the tumor weighed 70lb. has been lately published by Dr. Titley. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 73.) In one case, recorded by Dr. Cheston, a swelling of this kind was as large as a child’s head. On dissec- tion of the parts, the testicle and tunica vaginalis were found to be quite free from disease. The tumor proceeded entirely from an induration of the cellular membrane, which immediately covers the external surface of the vaginal coat. This curious disease is more common in warm cli- mates, and several instances of it were met with Egypt by Baron Larrey. (See Mem. de in Chir. Militaire, T. 2, p, 110 ct scq.) Some interesting particulars, relative to it, will be found in another part of this Dictionary. (See Scrotum.) The operation of castration is the most cer- tain means of relieving the patient from sarco- cele. This measure, however, is not invariably practicable, nor is it always necessary; for, some- times the induration of the testicle admits of being dispersed by the judicious employment oi internal medicines and external applications The hope of accomplishing this desirable object may be reasonably entertained, when the swell- ing is not very large, when it has not existed a considerable time, and when it is not attended with very great induration. Experience has