TESTICLE. 1020 kidneys, or mesentery, implying a diseased state of tlie said viscera, are very material objections to the removal of the local evil in the scrotum. In short, whenever there are manifest appear- ances, or symptoms ot a truly diseased state of any ot the principal viscera, the success of the operation becomes very doubtful. “ The state of the mere testis can hardly ever be any objection to the operation; the sole con- sideration is tho spermatic chord: if this be in a natural state, and free from disease, the opera- tion not only may, but ought to be performed, let the condition of the testicle be what it may; il the spermatic chord be really diseased, the operation ought not to be attempted.” And Mr. Pott afterwards remarks, “ when the spermatic vessels are not only turgid and full, but firm and hard; when the membrane, which invests and connects them, has lost its natural softness and cellular texture, and has contracted such a state, and such adhesions, as not only greatly to exceed its natural size, but to become unequal, knotty, and painful, upon being handled, and this state has possessed all that part of the chord, which is between the opening in the oblique muscle and the testicle, no prudent, judicious, or humane man, will attempt the operation ; because he will, most certainly, not only do no good to his patient, but will bring on such symptoms as will most rapidly, as well as painfully destroy him. “On the other hand,” says Pott, “every enlargement of the spermatic chord is not of this kind, nor by any means sufficient to pro- hibit or prevent the operation. “These alterations,, or enlatgements, arise from two causes, viz. a varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein, and a collection, or collections, of fluid in the membrane investing and envelop- ing the said vessels.” Shortly afterwards the same practical writer continues: —“ The diseased state of a truly scirrhous testicle, its weight, and the alteration that must be made in the due and proper circulation of the blood, through both it and the vessels from which it is dependent, may and do concur in inducing a varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein, without producing that knotty, morbid alteration and hardness, which forbid our attempts. Between these, a judicious .and experienced examiner will generally be able to distinguish. “ In the former, (the truly diseased state) the chord is not only enlarged, but feels unequally hard and knotty; the parts of which it is com- posed are undistinguishably blended together; it is either immediately painfhl to the touch, or becomes so, soon after being examined; the patient complains of frequent pains shooting up through his groin into his back ; and from the diseased state of the membrane composing the tunica communis, such adhesions and connex- ions are sometimes contracted, as either fix the process in the groin, or render it difficult to get the finger and thumb quite round it. “ In the other (the mere varicose distention) the vessels, though considerably enlarged and dilated, are nevertheless smooth, soft, and com- pressible ; the whole process is loose and free, and will easily permit the fingers of an examiner to go quite round it, and to distinguish the parts of which it is composed; it is not painful to the touch ; nor docs the examination of it produce, or occasion, those darting pains, which almost always attend handling a process malignantly indurated.” Mr. Pott next explains that “ in the cellular membrane, leading to a diseased testicle, it is no very uncommon tiling to find collections of ex- travasated fluid. These, as they add consider- ably to the bulk, and apparent size of the pro- cess, make the complaint appear more terrible; and, as I have just said, less likely to admit relief. “ When the extravasation is general, through all the cells of the investing membrane, and the spermatic vessels themselves are hardened, knotty and diseased, the case is without remedy; for, although a puncture, or an incision, will un- doubtedly give discharge to some, or even the greatest part of the fluid ; yet this extravasation is so small, and so insignificant a circumstance of the disease, and the parts, in this state, are so little capable of bearing irritation, that an attempt of this kind must be ineffectual, and may prove mischievous. “ But, on the other hand, collections of water are sometimes made in the same membrane, from an obstruction to the proper circulation through the numerous lymphatics in the spermatic pro- cess, while the vessels themselves are really not diseased, and therefore very capable of permit- ting the operation. In this ease, the fluid is generally in one cyst, or bag, like to an encysted hydrocele, and the spermatic chord, cyst and all, are easily moveable from side to side; contrary to the preceding state, in which the general load in the membrane fixes the whole process, and renders it almost immoveable. “ A discharge of the fluid will, in this case, enable the operator to examine the true state of the process, and, as I have twice or thrice seen, put it into his power to free his patient from one of the most terrible calamities which can befa! a man.” (See Poit on Hydrocele, §c.) The testicle is subject to a disease often called soft, cancer, which, though of a very malignant and incurable nature, is different from the true cancer, already described. It has been par- ticularly noticed by Mr. Abernethy, under the name of Medullary Sarcoma. In most of the instances, which this gentleman has seen, the tumor, when examined after removal, appeared to be of a whitish colour, resembling on a gene- ral and distant inspection, the appearance of the brain, and having a pulpy consistence. He lias also often seen it of a brownish red appearance. The following case is related, to illustrate the nature and progress of the disease. “ A tall, thin, liealtby-looking man, of about forty years of age, bad, about fifteen years be- fore, a swelled testicle from a gonorrhoea; the epididymis remained indurated. Six years after- wards it became enlarged, and a hydrocele at the same time formed. Half a pint of water was discharged by a puncture, but inflammation succeeded the operation, and this testis became very large. An abscess formed, and burst in the front of the scrotum, and the testis subsided in some degree. Mercury' was employed to re- duce it, but without effect. The part, however, was indolent, and gave the patient no trouble but from its bulk.