JOINTS. 723 ; oes not particularly indicate the situation for the I >sue, the arm should be preferred to the leg, as >sues upon the upper extremities, especially the I ?ft arm, are much less annoying, than upon ither of the lower limbs. The great art of keeping an issue open, for a I mg while, consists in maintaining an equal l nd effectual pressure upon the peas, by which | leans, they are confined in their places, little I epressions are made for them, and the granula- j ons hindered from rising. Compresses of paste- | oard and sheet-lead will often be found highly | i seful. This plan is the surest one of prevent- : | ;.ig the issue from healing, and the most likely l > save the patient all the severe and repeated idering, which the fresh application of the lustic, or the use of stimulating powders, in order to renew the sore and repress the fungous flesh, unavoidably occasions. There is a method of making issues with the caustic made into a sort of paste, which is laid upon the part left uncovered by the adhesive plaster. It seems to me to be a more tedious and painful plan, and I do not recommend it. It has been suspected, that the pain, arising from the caustic, might be lessened, by mixing opium with the application; but, the idea seems not at all probable; the destruction of a part of the skin must inevitably cause considerable pain, with whatever substance it is produced, and opium itself, so far from being likely to diminish the agony, is itself a violent stimulus, whenever it comes into contact with the exposed extremi- ties of the nerves. rOINTS, DISEAS ES OF. The joints are subject to numerous diseases which are more, r less, dangerous, according to their particular ature. Like all other parts, the joints are liable > Inflammation and abscesses; their capsules equently become distended with an aqueous se- ction, and the disease termed hydrops articuli, produced; but, the most important of all their orbid affections, are the cases, which, a few ;:ars ago, were indiscriminately called white veilings, scrophulous joints, and the disease of e hip-joint. Here, as Mr. Brodie remarks, e same name has been frequently applied to fferent diseases* and the same disease has re- ived different appellations. And confusion, ith respect to the diagnosis, always gives rise a corresponding confusion, with respect to the nployment of remedies. Although, says he, seases in their advanced stage extend to all the ssimilar parts, of which the joints are composed, ch is not the case in the beginning. Here, as sewhere, the morbid actions commence, some- nes in one, and sometimes in another texture, ffering in their nature, and, of course, requiring be differently treated, according to the me- anical organization, and vital properties of the rt, in which they originate. (See Patholo- cal and Surgical Ohs. on Diseases of the tints, p. 2, 8vo. Lond. 1818.) It was this ea, which led Mr. Brodie to trace by dissection c exact parts, in which several of the principal <eases of the joints commence, and, how much ;ht and discrimination his successful investiga- ■ns have produced, it is needless for me here insist upon, as his merit will long jrfe appre- ' ited by every surgeon, who recollects the per- l,.-xity and ignorance, which prevailed only a v years ago in this very interesting branch of rgery. 1 Wounds.—By the wound of a joint, surgeons -an a case, where the capsular ligament is pe- trated, or divided. The injury is often ac- mpanied with a division of the lateral, or other laments, and sometimes also with that of the 'tilages and bones. That the capsular liga- ?nt is wounded may generally be learned by the introduction of a probe, and frequently by a discharge of a transparent viscid fluid, called the synovia. But, as a similar discharge may pro- ceed from mere wounds of the bursae mucosae, we might form an erroneous judgment, were we unacquainted with the situation of these little membranous bags. Boyer has seen several cases, in which, a fluid, resembling synovia, was discharged from wounds of the sheaths of tendons. (See Traite des Maladies Chirurg. T. 4, p. 408.) Here, the advice which I have given in another place, (See Wounds of the Abdomen,) respecting the temerity of being too officious with the probe, is equally important, inasmuch as the rough introduction of this instrument into a large joint, like the knee, would be very likely to excite inflammation of the synovial membrane, and a train of dangerous and even fatal conse- quences ; while the information, gained by such employment of the probe, is of little use; be- cause, whenever a wound is suspected to reach into the capsular ligament, exactly the same treat- ment should always be followed, as if the joint were positively known to be penetrated. Notwithstanding simple wounds even of large joints often heal favourably, without any bad symptoms, this is not constantly the case, and the records of surgery furnish many examples, in which the most alarming and fatal conse- quences ensued. (See Hunter's Commentaries, Part 1, p. 69.) When properly treated, punc- tured wounds of the joints (says Boyer) are not in general attended with danger; but, as some of these wounds, which were apparently quite simple, have been followed by very bad sym- ptoms, and even death, we should always be ex- tremely circumspect in the prognosis. (See Traite, des Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 409-) The treatment consists in endeavouring to heal the injury by the first intention ; in applying cold lotions ; forbidding all motion of the part; and employing bleeding and other antiphlogistic remedies. Baron Boyer relates two cases of punctured wounds of the elbow joint, which healed up in a few davs, without any unfavourable symptom. 3 A 2