1008 SUIIGERY. and gratitude of the profession. No other in- stitution of the kind has ever done so much in so short a space of time. Many of the facts, which they have collected and published, are of considerable importance, especially those relating to the subjects of aneurism and hemorrhage. Their library is already the most select, valuable, and complete, collection of medical literature in Great Britain; and it is daily receiving additions both by large purchases at home and abroad, and by the liberal donations of its members. The intercourse and correspondence, which such a society continually maintain amongst the in- numerable scattered members of the profession, cannot fail to be attended with the most beneficial consequences. A generous and useful sort of emulation is thus kept alive; the spirit of in- quiry is prevented from slumbering; and every individual who ascertains a new fact, has now the means of making it known to the world, with all the expedition, which its importance may demand. Within the last twenty, or thirty years, most important improvements have certainly been made in almost every branch of surgery; and it must gratify every Englishman to find, that his own countrymen have acted a very leading part in effecting an object, in which the interests of mankind are so deeply concerned. Before the time of Mr. John Hunter, bur ideas of the venereal disease were surrounded with absurdities; and it is to this luminary that we are in an eminent degree indebted for the in- creased discrimination and reason, which now prevail, both in the doctrines and treatment of the complaint. It must be confessed, however, that much yet remains to be made out, respect- ing the nature and treatment of syphilitic dis- orders. Need I mention a greater proof of the truth of this remark, than the sudden change of practice in some of the principal hospitals in London, mercury being now not exhibited in more than one out of ten cases, for which this medicine a few years ago was always deemed in- dispensable? Numerous cases, having all the characters of primary venereal sores, seem now to be curable by simple dressings and cleanliness. In short, so different is every thing from what it used to be, that many surgeons are tempted to suppose the nature of the venereal disease totally altered. Some observations on this important topic are offered in another place. See Venereal Disease. Strictures in the urethra, an equally common and distressing disease, were not well treated of before Mr. Hunter published on the venereal disease; and the advantage of'armed bougies in the treatment of certain cases, has been sub- sequently pointed out by Sir Everard Home. In modern times, hernial diseases, those com- mon afflictions in every country, have received highly interesting elucidations from the labours of*Pott, Camper, Richter, Sir Astley Cooper, Iley, Gimbernat, Hesselbach, Scarpa, Law- rence, &c. The treatment of injuries of the head has been materially improved by Quesnay, Le Dran, Pott, Hill, Desault, and Abernethy. The disease of the vertebrae, which occasions l..-;- llmlio fnrmerlv nhvavs baffled the able relief, and sometimes of a perfect cure. The diseases of the joints in general may also be said to be at present viewed with much more dis- crimination, than they were a very few years ago; and this great step to better and more suc- cessful practice reflects great honour on Mr. Brodie, while it keeps up a well-founded hope, that morbid anatomy, the study, which has of late banished so much confusion from this part of surgery, will yet be the means of bringing to light other useful facts and observations, relative to the diseases of the joints in general. The mode of treating lumbar abscesses has been rendered much more successful, than formerly, and, for this change, the world is in- debted to Mr. Abernethy. The almost infallible plan of curing hydroceles by an injection, as described by Sir James Earle, may also be enumerated amongst modern im- provements. The increasing aversion to the employment of the gorget in lithotomy, and the many di- stinguished advocates for the use of better in- struments in this operation, may be hailed as propitious omens of beneficial changes in this part of practice. The diseases of the eyes, to which affections English surgeons seemed to pay much less at- tention, than was bestowed by foreign practi- tioners, now obtain due attention in this coun- try. Although we have generally had some di- stinguished oculists, our regular surgeons have generally been wonderfully ignorant of this part of their profession, and uninformed on the sub- ject, they have given up to professed oculists and quacks one of the most lucrative and agreeable branches of practice. However, the able writings of Daviel, Wenzel, and Ware, begin now to be familiarly known to practitioners: and the observa- tions of Scarpa, Richter, Beer, Wardrop, Travers, and Saunders, will soon have immense effect in diffusing in the profession a due knowledge of the numerous diseases, to which the organs of vision are liable. As likewise the generality of the hospital surgeons of London, have, during the last thirty years, grossly neglected the study of the 'diseases of the eye, and conscientiously refused to have any thing to do with these cases, the public at length saw the necessity of esta- blishing Eye Infirmaries, where such afflictions might be more attentively observed and relieved. Some of these have now become excellent schools, in which the rising generation of surgeons have abundant opportunities of studying the nature of all the diseases of the eyes, and the most ap- proved methods of treatment. While, however, I am thus commending sepa- rate institutions for disorders of the eye, it be- comes me to express my regret for the long con- tinued neglect, and the ignorance of these diseases, manifested by several hospital surgeons, which were in fact the original causes of those distinct establishments. For, according to my concep- tions, it would have been far better to have had the practice in eye-cases exhibited in the com- mon great schools of surgery, the large hospitals of London. I am of this opinion, not only be- cause I think these diseases would then have mot with more irencral and public observation: k t? i» t! r it to 6 rr i ar j r» * ! j ** \t ri u : rf : IT: j P~: ih ■ U &e H ft tor ft ft ft ■k N to rt> \ fc tltlr R fcr