HOSPITAL GANGRENE. Titled, bv renewing it as much as possible, fixing ventilators, and especially by using the oxy- genated muriatic acid fumigations, as recoin- mended by Guyton-Morveau, or else those ot the nitric acid. , , , '. The nitric acid fumigations are made by put- tin,, into a glass vessel, on the ground, halt an ounce of concentrated sulphuric acid, to which ■tn eoual quantity of nitre is to be added gra- datin\. The mixture is to be stirred with a glass tube, when an abundance of white vapour will be produced. The oxygenated muriatic acid fumigations are made, by'mixing three ounces two drains of common salt with five drams of the black oxide of manganese in powder. These two ingre- ; dients are to be triturated togethei; they are then to be put into a glass vessel; one ounce two drams of water are to be added, and then, ii the ward, or chamber be uninhabited, one ounce seven drams of sulphuric acid are to be poured upon the mixture all at once; or, gradually, ii the patients are there. This quantity will be i sufficient for a very large ward. When one, or more of the patients, afflicted | with the disorder, before it lias become general, are lying in a badlv ventilated part of the ward, the surgeon can partly counterbalance the dis- ulvautage of not having afresh ward, by causing he patients to be put into a more airy part of he ward, and as far as possible from the quarter, n which they contracted the disease. With regard to internal medicines, while irri- ation and febrile heat accompany hospital gan- t-ene, diluent acid drinks are proper, such as itrated whey sweetened with syrup of violets, jmonade, &c. Blood-letting is admissible in ut few instances, not merely because the orifice, lade by the lancet, is apt to become gangrenous, :ut because the fever, which accompanies hos- ital gangrene, is usually of the typhoid, or ,thenic character. (Thomson, p. 493.) Mr. Blackadder, like Dr. Thomson, does not •itertain a favourable opinion of venesection, as ■ general practice, though he would not object i the abstraction of a small quantity of blood, hen, owing to the plethoric habit of the patient, revious treatment, and other causes, an inflam- atory action in the system is present. But, he ■nceives, that all danger of the disease attaclc- g the wound, made with the lancet, may be ob- ated, if care be taken, that the arm of the pa- mt, the hands of the surgeon, his lancet, and e subsequent dressings, be perfectly free from r.tamination, and that the patient be prevented >m undoing the bandage, or touching the inci- r.»n, made with the lancet, before it is ciea- ! zed. (P. 135.) Mr. Blackadder thinks, how- er, that bloodletting should be avoided, as ich as possible, particularly when the previous ury has been extensive. “ A general debility the system, is one of the symptoms, which are rst to be dreaded; for, when once it takes ice, there is no other disease, in which it is re- ived with greater difficulty.” (P. 13 7.) How iorent these sentiments are from those of Dr. mnen, who, in speaking of the effects of ve- scction, when the disorder was accompanied .'.i an inflammatory diathesis, employs ,tlie fol- ving. expressions : “ The very patients them- ves implored the use of die lancet.” For se- veral months “ we used no other remedy, eitlu'i as a cure, or preventive.” —11 Me never ob- served any of the lancet wounds assume a gan- grenous appearance, although previously, in a*_ most every other instance, the slightest punc- ture festered..” (On Military Surgery, })■ 224, Ed. 2.) In the beginning of the constitutional attack, Pouteau and Dussassoy particularly recom- mended emetics, and Mr. Briggs, Dr. J. Thom- son, and Dr. Henuen, are all advocates for this practice, though the latter gentleman makes his evidence rather ambiguous, by a subjoined note, in which, he mentions, that want of success. &c , led to the trial of venesection. (Op. cit. 222.) As for Mr. Blackadder, he deems the employ- ment of emetics at the commencement of hos- pital gangrene useful only when the stomach is foul. (On Phagedccna Gangranosa, p. 1.34.) In the early stage of the ease, writers seem all to agree about the utility of purgative and lax- ative medicines. When there is debility, good generous wine should be allowed, either by itself, or mixed with lemonade according to circum- stances. Bark, whose antiseptic qualities have been so highly praised, is in general more hurt- ful, than useful; and Dr. Iiennen assures us, that he has seen great harm done by large and injudicious doses of this drug, before full evacua- tions had taken place, and the sloughs begun to separate. Boyer allows, however, that it may be beneficially given, when the feverish heat has abated, and the debility is very great. In all stages of this disease, unattended with diarrhoea, acids are proper. The sulphuric acid is that, which is given with most success; but, the acidulous tartrite of potassa is also an-excel- lent medicine. From two drams to half an ounce may be given everyday, and the best plan is to make an acid drink with it, which should be sweetened and strained. In severe cases, attended with a quick and feeble pulse, depression, restlessness, and anxiety, an opiate becomes necessary. “ So long as we wish to excite a degree of moisture on the skin, fsays Professor Thomson) Dover’s powder, or laudanum with antimonial wine, form in general the best opiates.” This gentleman, however, is not an advocate for the employment of opium, in the early stage of hospital gangrene, while the heat and other febrile symptoms are at then- height. (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 494, 495.) For these cases, camphor, in large and frequent doses, was highly praised by Pouteau. From what has been said, concerning internal remedies, it is evident, that none of them can be regarded as means, which can be at all depended upon, for arresting the ravages of hospital gan- grene, however advantageous they may prove in palliating general symptoms, removing particular complications, enabling the system to support the effects of the local disorder for a greater length of time, or, in a few cases, even placing nature in a condition to throw off the diseased parts herself, and communicate to the subjacent living flesh a healthy action. If credit can be given to several of the au- thors, who have had the most extensive oppor- tunities of attending to the nature of hospital gangrene, the local treatment is far more effec- tual than internal medicines, U U