309 CATARACT. site, utter the operation, but u small compress of fine linen; and the patient ought to be kept in a quiet, moderately darkened room. On the follow- ing morning, a dose of some mild purgative salt, such as the sulphate of soda, or magnesia, may usually be administered, with advantage. I shall not enlarge upon the method of treatment, when the inflammation, subsequent to couching, ex- ceeds the ordinary bounds ; in hypochondriacal, hysterical, and irritable constitutions, this is more frequently met with, and I have already touched upon the propriety of some preparatory mea- sures before operating upon these unfavourable subjects. Beer remarks, that, although after extraction, very cautious trials of the sight are indispensa- ble, they are by no means proper after the de- pression, or reelination of a cataract; for, the action of the muscles of the eye in the inspec- tion of objects at various distances, is very liable to make the opaque body rise-again. Hence, as soon as the pupil is clear, Beer recommends covering both eyes (even when one only has been operated upon) with a plaster, and simple linen compress, which last is to be fastened on the forehead with a common bandage. The same experienced operator also enjoins perfect quie- tude of the body and head for some days. The patient, he says, may either lie in bed, or sit in an arm-chair, as may be most agreeable, care being taken to avoid all sudden motions. The most proper food for the patient is such as is easily digested, not too nutritious, and does not require much mastication. Every thing must be avoided, which has a tendency to excite inflam- mation in the eye. On the third, or fourth day, the eye should be opened, and afterwards be merely protected by a green silk eye screen, which should also be gradually dispensed with. The patient should be careful to do whatever is agree- able to the eye, which has been operated upon, and, as carefully avoid every thing, which irri- tates it, or causes a disagreeable sensation in it, a difficulty of opening the eyelids, or keeping them open, a discharge of tears, or a redness of die white of the eye, &c. Of the thrombus under the conjunctiva, some- rimes caused by the prick of the needle, and of the readily bleeding granulations which occasion- ally shoot up at the puncture, I need not here particularly speak. For relieving the obstinate vomiting, sometimes excited by injury of the ci- iary nerves, or that of the retina, Beer recom- nends castor, musk, and opium, except when the :ye is in a state of inflammation, in which cir- ymstance, the antiphlogistic treatment is pre- erable. Such vomiting, Beer joins other writers n believing, is often produced by a firm lens wing depressed too far, so as to injure the re- ,na> a case, however, which is usually com- 'tned with a suddenly produced, complete, or in- ■omplete amaurosis. Here, unless the position of he lens can be changed by a sudden movement f the head, the above class of medicines will be ■f no use. This kind of amaurosis may also take ««:e, without any vomiting, and, as Beer has a“ opportunities of remarking, it will not nl- ,ay.s subside, even though the cataract be made o rise again. The same amaurotic afTection may *°. .rej,ult from the surgeon hurting the retina by u,s llnU *he needle too deeply against this mem- brane. According to Beer, the ophthalmy, liable to happen in these cases, as well as after extrac- tion and kexatonyxis, is always most severe in the iris and neighbouring textures. (Von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 361—63. I cannot help remarking how judicious it is never to attempt too much at one time in any mode of couching. It happens in this, as in most other branches of operative surgery, that celerity is too often mistaken for skill: the operator should not only be slow and deliberate in achiev- ing his purpose ; he should be taught to consider, that a repetition of couching may, like the punc- ture of a vein, be safely and advantageously put in practice again and again ; and with far greater security, than if, for the sake of appearing expe- ditious, or avoiding the temporary semblance ot failure, a bolder use of the couching needle should be made, than the delicate structure of the eye warrants. We read, in Mr. Hey’s Practical Ob- servations on Surgery, that he couched one eye seven times, before perfect success was obtained; had he been less patient, and endeavoured to ef- fect by one or two rough applications of the in- strument, what he achieved by seven efforts of a gentler description, it is highly probable, that the structure of the eye would have been so impaired, as well as the consequent ophthalmy so violent, as to have utterly prevented the restoration of sight. All the various methods of couching having now been described, I subjoin the sentiments of Beer, respecting the circumstances, by which the choice of depression, or reelination, ought to be regulated. According to this author, when the cataract is very firm, or moderately so, with a scabrous surface, or the case is what has been already described under the name of encysted cataract, or when the cataract consists of any tough membrane, both depression and reelination can only be a palliative remedy, for, says he, none of these cataracts after the operation can be dissolved and absorbed, but must remain in the eye, as a foreign unorganized body, ready at every opportunity to rise again, and partially or completely blind the patient anew. Beer assures us, that he has carefully examined the eyes of persons after death, on whom depres- sion or reelination had been practised, in some instances, twenty or more years previously; but, in almost all the examples, the lens was found firm and undissolved, or at most only diminished, with, or without its capsule. Membranous cata- racts were very trivially lessened; though they had quite lost their tough consistence, and were changed into a firmish white mass. In a living- person, Beer says, he saw an instance, in which a cataract rose again after it had been depressed by Hilmer thirty years previously : it was small, angular, and, when the pupil was dilated, it floated from one chamber of the eye into the other. When extracted, which was done with complete success, it was found to be almost ossified. In 1805, Beer extracted from a woman, forty years of age, a very large, hard, yellowish white lenti- cular-cataract, which had been in the anterior chamber twenty-six years. The lens had been thus displaced by a blow received on the eye from the branch of a tree. Nor has Beer ever yet seen a case, in which a cataract o fa semi-firm consist- ence was dissolved and absorbed. (Van den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 363.) Ilad Beer confined his