AMPUTATION. 75 are the sentiments of a gentleman who has published a valuable tract on amputation, as well as some other works of deserved reputa- tion. His opinion is unquestionably the re- verse of what is mostly prevalent in England; and I think his practice liable to the objection, that the disadvantages of scraping the bone at all, and denuding it, may exceed the benefit, sup- posed to proceed from afterwards bringing down the detached membrane over its sharp margin, even admitting this to be always practicable. But, in no part of the operation of amputa- tion do operators in general display more awkward- ness, than in sawing the bone, though, if w e except directing the saw against the flesh, the faults are here less pernicious in their consequences than the error' already noticed. At the time of saw- ing the bone, much depends upon the assistant who holds the limb. If he elevate the lower por- tion of the thigh bone too much, the saw becomes so pinched that it cannot work. On the other hand, if he allow the weight of the leg to operate too much, the thigh bone breaks before it is nearly sawn through, and its extremity is splintered. It is one of the most common remarks of such persons, as are in the habit of frequently seeing amputations, that the part of these operations, which a plain carpenter would do well, foils the skill of a consummate surgeon, and few operators acquit themselves well in the management of the saw. Many of them begin the action of this in- strument, by moving it in a direction contrary to the inclination of its teeth. Many, seemingly through confusion, endeavour to shorten this part of the operation, by making short, very rapid, and most convulsive strokes, with the saw. Almost all operators fall into the error of bearing too heavily on the instrument. That operator will saw best, who makes the first stroke of the saw, by applying its heel to the bone, and drawing the instrument across the part, towards himself, so as to make a slight groove in the bone, which serves very materially to steady the future operations of the instrument; and who makes long, regular sweeps with the saw, rather slowly than quickly, rather lightly than heavily. But, there is often a fault in the construction of the saw itself, which impedes its action, quite independently of any fault on the part of the surgeon. I allude to not having the edge of the instrument a little broader, than its blade. When the saw is well made, the teeth always make plenty of space for the movement of the rest of the instrument. The instrument, as Mr. Guthrie recommends, should cut with both edges, backwards and forwards, which expedites the operation, and (what is of more consequence) helps to prevent splintering when the bone is nearly divided, because the division can be finished by the backward motions, which are the most gentle. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 89.) Graefe commends the plan of oiling the saw, for the purpose of facilitating its action ; ( Normen Jur die Aht. gi'6,terer Gliedmnssen, p. 65.) and though the method is innocent enough, the best operators in this metropolis do not consider it sufficiently important for adoption. If the bone should happen to break before the sawing is finished, the sharp pointed, projecting spiculse, thus occasioned, must be removed by means of a strong, cutting sort of forceps, termed hone nippers. The perpendicular divi- sion of the bone leaves a sharp edge at the ex- tremity of its circumference: it is not the com- mon practice to take any measures for the re- moval of such sharpness; yet, Graefe recom- mends filing it away, ( Op. cil. p. 66,) and Mr. C. Hutchinson makes it an invariable rule, whether there be any occasion to use the bone nippers or not, “ to take off the asperities, and scrape, or endeavour somewhat to round, the sharp cut edge of the bone with a strong blunt scalpel, in order to prevent the soft parts from being in-' jured, when brought over the end of the bone in forming the stump .” fPrac1. Ohs. in Surgery, p. 24.) Though I have not followed this practice, or rather the part of it, which relates to cutting off the edge of the bone, nor seen it adopted in London in amputation of the thigh, I know of no objection to it, unless it be on the score of its inutility, and the delay, which it occasions. All projecting points of bone, it is the ordinary cus- tom to remove. After the removal of the limb, the femoral artery is to be immediately taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and tied with a firm round small ligature, the best being that kind which is recommended and used by my friend Mr. Law- rence, (See Ligature) care being taken to leave the accompanying branches of the anterior crural nerve out of the noose. None of the surround- ing flesh ought to be tied, though the ligature should undoubtedly be placed round the artery, just where this vessel emerges from its lateral connexions. Mr. Hey has been accustomed to tie the femoral artery twice,leaving a small space between the ligatures, and this method has been constantly used in the Leeds Infirmary. Some reasons against this plan will be found in the article (Hemorrhage). The other arteries are usually taken up with a tenaculum. After tying as many vessels as require it, one half of each ligature is to be cut off, near the knot on the surface of the stump. One portion is quite suf- ficient for withdrawing the ligature when this becomes loose, and the other being only an extraneous body, and productive of irritation and suppuration, should never be allowed to remain. My friend, Dr. Hennen, in his excellent pub- lication, ascribes the improvement of removing one half of the ligature, to Mr. James Veitch, a naval surgeon, who, in April, 180G, published some valuable precepts relative to the mode of lying the arteries in amputation. (See Ldinh. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol.‘2,p.\7 6.) But highly as I approve of the tenor of the anony- mous paper here referred to, it is impossible for me to suppose Mr. Veitch could be the first, or nearly the first, who suggested such improve- ment. When I went as an apprentice to St. Bar- tholomew’s hospital, in 1797, no surgeon of that hospital ever followed any other mode, and the practice was then so far from being new there, that gentlemen, who were at the hospital seven years before myself, saw one half of each ligature regularly cut oft’ the first time they went into the operating theatre of that munificent institution. The use of very broad ligatures, and the inclusion of a considerable quantity of flesh in the noose together with the vessel, were also practices quite exploded