FIS the end of it as prominent as possible, so as to be felt; which, indeed, is often impossible. If it can be felt, it must be cut upon, and the in- cision carried on a little farther, towards the bladder, or anus, so as to open the urethra be- vond the stricture. This will both allow the urine to escape, and destroy the stricture. If the instrument cannot be felt, at first, by the bno-er, we must cut down towards it; and, on afterwards feeling it, proceed as above. When the stricture is opposite the scrotum, as the opening cannot be made in this situation, it must be made in the perinseum, in which case, there can be no direction given by an instru- ment, as one cannot pass sufficiently far, and the only guide is our anatomical knowledge. The opening being made, proceed as directed in the cure of false a passage. (See Urethra, False Passage of.) In whichsoever way the operation is done, a bougie, or a catheter, which is better, must afterwards be introduced, and the wound healed over it. When the inflammation, from the extravasa- tion of urine, is attended with suppuration and mortification, the parts must be freely scarified, in order to give vent both to the urine arid pus. When there is sloughing, the incisions should be made in the mortified parts. Sometimes, when the urethra is ulcerated, and the cellular membrane of the penis and prepuce is so much distended, as to produce a phvmcsis, it is impossible to find the orifice of the urethra. Frequently the new passages for the urine do not heal, on account of the stricture not being removed: and even when this has been cured, they often will not heal, but become truly fistu- lous, and produce fresh inflammations and sup- purations, which often burst by distinct openings. Such new abscesses and openings often form, in consequence of the former ones having become too small, before the obstruction in the urethra is removed. Such diseases sometimes bring on intermittent disorders, which do not yield to bark ; but cease as soon as the fistulse, and disease of the ure- thra, have been cured. In order to cure fistulse in perinoeo, unattended with the above described urgent symptoms, the urethra must be rendered as free as possible, and, this alone is often enough ; for, the urine finding a ready passage forwards, is not forced into the internal mouth of the fistula?, so that these heal up. The cure of the strictures, however, is not always sufficient, and the following operation becomes indispensable. The sinuses are to be laid open in the same manner as other sinuses, which have no disposi- tion to heal. In doing this, as little as possible of the sound part of the urethra must he opened. Hence, the surgeon must direct himself to the inner orifice of the fistulse, by means of a staff, introduced (if possible) into the bladder, and a probe passed into one of the fistulous passages. The probe should be first bent, that it may more readily follow the turns of the fistula. When it can be made to meet the staff, so much the bet- ter; for then the operator can just cut only what is necessary. When the fistula is so straight, as to admit of a director being introduced, this instrument is the best. When neither the probe, nor the di- FLU 4*17 rector, can be made to pass as far as the staff, we must open the sinuses as far as the first in- strument goes, and then search for the continua- tion of the passage, for the purpose oflaying ii open. The difficulties of this dissection, how- ever, in the thickened, diseased state of the parts in the scrotum and perinaeum, are such as can only be duly appreciated by a man, who has either made the attempt himself, or seen it made by others. I have myself seen one of the first anatomists in London fail in two instances to trace the continuation of the urethra, and battled in the endeavour, therefore, to pass an instru- ment from the orifice of that passage into the bladder. The difficulty and confusion, arising from the hardened, enlarged state of the parts, which are to be cut, have been well depicted by Mr. C. Bell. (Surgical Obs. Vol. 1, p. 129.) Having divided the fistula? as far as their ter- mination in the urethra, a catheter should be introduced, and worn, at first, almost constantly. This is better than a bougie, which must be fre- quently withdrawn to allow the patient to make water, and it often could not be introduced again without being entangled in the wounds. In many cases, the employment of the cathe- ter should not be continued after a certain period. At first, it often assists the cure; but, in the end, it may obstruct the healing, by acting at the bottom of the wound, as an extraneous body. Hence, when the sores become stationary, let the catheter be withdrawn, and introduced only occasionally. And even after the sores are well, it will be prudent to use the bougie, in order to determine whether the passage is free from disease. When fistulse in perinseo have been laid open, the wounds are/ to be at first dressed down to the bottom as much as possible, which will pre- vent the re-union of the parts first dressed, and make the granulations shoot from the bottom, so as to consolidate the whole by one bond of union. (Hauler on the Venereal Disease, Ed. 2.) Addi- tional observations upon this subject, and, in par- ticular, the opinions of Desault, will be found in the article Urinary Abscesses and Fislulce. Mr. A. Cooper’s practice in cases, where a consider- able portion of the urethra has been destroyed, will be hereafter noticed. (See Urethra.) FISTULA, SALIVAIi\. (See Parotid Duct.) FLUCTUATION, (from fluctn, to float.) The perceptible motion communicated to any collection of purulent matter, or other kind of fluid, by applying the fingers to the sur- face of the tumor, and pressing with them alter- nately, in such a manner, that the fingers of one hand are to be employed in pressing, or rather in briskly tapping upon the part, while those of the other hand remain lightly placed on another side of the swelling. When the ends of one set of fingers are thus delicately applied, and the sur- geon taps, or makes repeated pressure with the fingers of the other hand, the impulse, given to the fluid, is immediately perceptible to him, and the sensation, thus received, is one of the prin- cipal symptoms, by which practitioners are ena- bled to discover the presence of fluid in a great variety of cases. Great skill in ascertaining by the touch the presence of fluid in parts, or being endued with the 'actus cruditus, as it is termed,