If t 1108 URINARY cutaneous perspiration injurious; a statement, which 1 think must be rejected, considering the rarity of calculi in hot climates, independently of the sentiments of Dr. Wilson Philip, that the precipitating acid (if such be the cause) is thrown off by the skin, and consequently that ensuring a due performance of the cutaneous functions, must, in these cases, be beneficial. (See Medical Trans, of the College of Physicians, Col. 6.) 3. To prevent the lithic acid from assuming a solid form, by saturating it. 4. When gravel and calculi are formed, to promote their discharge and attempt their dissolution, flecherch.es, §c. sur la Gravcllc, p. 42.) For correcting the lithic acid diathesis, Dr. Prout particularly enjoins the avoidance of errors in diet, exercise, &c. The error of quantity of food, he deems worse, than the error of quality. Patients, he says, should abstain altogether from things, which manifestly disagree with them, and which must be unwholesome to all, such as heavy unfermented bread, hard-boiled and fat puddings, salted and dried meats, acescent fruits, and (if the digestive organs be debilitated) soups of every kind. In general also wine, and particu- larly those of an acescent quality, should be avoided. The wearing of flannel, the preser- ving a regular state of the bowels, and the occasional use of alterative medicines, are like- wise commended. (Prout on Gravel, §c. p. 135.) According to the same author, the treatment of calculous affections is either of a-local, or general description. The local treatment is nearly the same in all the species; the general treatment will depend upon the nature of the calculous diathesis. What Dr. Prout calls the local treatment consists chiefly in prescribing hyosciamus and opium, either alone, or combined with uva ursi. The hyosciamus, he says, is generally preferable in the lithic acid diathesis; and opium in the phosphatic. Pie also recommends the use of opium in the form of injection and embrocation, and especially in that of a suppository. The warm bath, fomentations, and sitting over hot water, are spoken of as other means of relief. According to the observations of the same well-informed writer, the distressing symptoms, produced by lithic acid calculi have a very con- stant relation to the severity of the diathesis present; a circumstance, which, he says, is also more or less true with respect to all the other kinds of calculi: that is to say, in proportion ns the urine is unnatural, and loaded with gravel and amorphous sediments, in the same propor- tion are the patient’s sufferings. Hence, our first object should be to restore the urine to its natural state. The first means to be recom- mended, in ordinary cases, is usually a dose of calomel and antimonial powder, the riummcr’s pill, or some other alterative purgative, taken at - night, to be followed up the next morning by an alkaline diuretic purgative, composed, for ex- ample, of Rochelle salts and magnesia, or sub- carbonate of soda: during the day, a strong infusion of uva ursi, combined with hyosciamus and the liquor potassa?, may be taken. P'hese mpfllK nrn tr» hr* T^rcistprl in fnr a PTP.'ltPr OT IrSK CALCULI. the urine begins to be natural; they may then be gradually left olfi or varied, as occasion may require; and, under this plan, it will be found, that, in the majority of cases, not only the urine •anil assume its natural state, hut most, or all the distressing symptoms of calculus in the bladder, will he very much diminished, and, in many instances, disappear. It is obvious also that, while the urine is in its natural state, the calculus cannot increase in size. “ After the diathesis is once fairly broken by these means, it may in general be easily pre- vented from recurring by attention to the diet, and other circumstances, formerly mentioned as inducing this diathesis, and by the occasional use of medicines; and the patient \yill scarcely know, that he has a calculus in the bladder; at least, from the pain that it gives him. I state this with confidence; but at the same time, I wish to be understood to mean, that the freedom from pain, &c. depend, in no inconsiderable degree, upon the size of the calculus, its smoothness, upon the exercise a patient is obliged to take, &c. all of which are presumed to be favourable ; for, it must be sufficiently obvious, that a foreign substance in the bladder cannot be prevented from acting mechanically, and from occasionally producing bloody urine, or a temporary stoppage of the discharge of that secretion from the bladder, and similar symptoms, if the patient is obliged to take severe exercise.” (Prout on Gravel, §c. p. 202—204.) At the beginning of the eighteenth century, lime and the alkalies were known to be fre- quently productive of relief in cases of stone, and in particular, the nostrum of a Mrs. Steevens, the active ingredients of which were calcined egg-shells and soap, acquired such celebrity lor the cures which it effected, that much anxiety was expressed, that her formula should be made public. The consequence was, that, in the year 1730, parliament appointed a committee of 22 respectable men to investigate the merits of the remedy in question, and, on their very favourable report, the secret was purchased for the sum of 5000/. These proceedings naturally interested our neighbours, and in the year 1740 and 1/41, Morand communicated to the Academy ol Sciences two memoirs, in which arc reported numerous cases, where the new remedy was tried, and mostly with success; the greater number of the patients being described as either benefited, or actually cured. In many instances, stones which had been unquestionably felt, were no longer to be disco- vered; and, as the same persons were examined by surgeons of the greatest skill and eminence, both before, and after, the exhibition of the me- dicines, it is no wonder, that the conclusion was drawn, that the stones had been really dissolved. From the cessation of this success, however, and from its now being known, that stones occa- sionally become lodged in a kind o! cyst, on the outside of the general cavity of the bladder, so as to cause no longer any material suffering, surgeons of the present day are inclined to sus- pect, that this must have happened in Mrs, Steevens’s cases. This was certainly what hap- npnod in one of the persons, on whom theubo'C