i .1 i ,i _ i i rn.^, ~ ~. i _ i i i * 4 ih- t i Kn 1-220 WOUNDS. according to the latter author, an union of the peritoneum appeared highly inflamed. Adlie- two ends of the bowel together, and their con- sions were formed among the neighbouring folds, solidation with a part of the abdomen. Nowit and lymph was deposited in masses upon the has been questioned by a late writer, whether sides of the wounded gut. This presented two the union here spoken of ever really happened, large circular orifices. Among the viscera were When the upper end of the bowel is introduced found a quantity of bilious fluid, and some ex- into the lower, the external surface of the former traneous substances, and a worm was depending is put in contact with the inner one of the latter; from one of the apertures. By the artificial con- a serous membrane is placed in contact with a nexion of the edges in a single point of their cir- mueous one. These heterogeneous structures, cumference, and their natural connexion at the he alleges, are not disposed to unite. The mesentery, they could recede only in the in- mucous membrane, when inflamed, more readily tervals, and here they had receded to the secretes a kind of mucus, which would be an in- utmost.” In another experiment, Mr. Travers vincible obstacle to adhesion. He thinks it increased the number of points of contact, by therefore more than probable, that, in the case placing three single stitches upon a divided in- related by Heister, the invagination was main- testine, cutting away the threads, and returning tained by the union of the intestine with the the gut. The animal died on the second day. corresponding part of the abdominal parietes. Examination- Similar marks of inflammation Several experiments on living animals have con- presented themselves. The omentum was par- vinced him, that this happens, and that the dally wrapped about the wound; but, one of the mucous membrane will not unite with the ex- spaces between the sutures, was uncovered, and ternal peritoneal coat. This impossibility of pro- from this the intestinal fluids had escaped. On ducing an immediate union between the mucous cautiously raising the adhering omentum, the and serous membranes may of course be urged remaining stitches came into view. Here again ns an objection to Ramdohr’s practice. {Richer- the retraction was considerable, and the inter- and, Nosographie Ckir. T. 3, p. 344—345, vening elliptical aperture proportionally large. Edit. 4.) Another equally strong objection is, On the side, next to the peritoneum, however, that the upper end of the bowel cannot be put the edges were in contact and adhered, so as to into the lower one, unless it be separated from a unite the sections at an angle, part of the mesentery. Here the division of the From such experiments, the conclusion, drawn mesenteric arteries may cause a dangerous bleed- by Mr. Travers, is, that apposition, at a point, ing. In vain did Boyer tie seven, or eight of or points, is, as respects effusion, more disad- these vessels: his patient died with an extrava- vantageous, than no apposition at all; for, it sation in the abdomen. {Richerand, T. 3, p. admits of retraction, and prevents contraction, 343, Edit. 4.) so that each stitch becomes the extremity of an Moebius attempted to repeat Ramdohr's ope- aperture, the area of which is determined by the ration upon a dog; but, he could not succeed in the distance of the stitches. (P. 116, IIP.) insinuating the upper part of the divided bowel in- This gentleman, therefore, maintains, that the to the lower one, cm account of the contraction of absolute contact of the everted surfaces of a di- the two ends of the intestinal tube, and the small- , vided intestine, in their entire circumference, ness of the canal. Moebius, therefore, was obliged is requisite to secure the animal from the dan- to be cqntentwith merely bringing the ends of the ger of abdominal effusion. (A 121.) The bowel together with a suture: the animal soon species of suture employed (says Mr. Travers) afterwards died of an extravasation of the feces. ' is of secondary importance, if it secures this Dr. Smith, of Philadelphia, also tried to repeat contact. {P. 134.) And among other ob- Ramdohr’s method, but could not succeed. He servations, I find “ wounds amounting to a divided the intestine of a dog transversely, and direct division of the canal are irreparable, and having inserted a piece of candle into that portion therefore invariably fatal.’’ (P. 133.) of the bowel, which was supposed to be upper- These inferences do not appear to me satis- most, he endeavoured to introduce the superior factorily established. We are told that, ap- within the inferior; but the euds became so in- position at a point, or points, is, as respects verted, that it was found utterly impossible to sue- effusion, more disadvantageous, than no ap- ceed. The scheme was therefore given up, and position at all, and that the absolute contact of only one stitch made, the ligature being then at- the divided surfaces, in their entire circum- taclied to the external wound, in the manner ad- ference, is requisite to secure the animal from vised by Mr. John Bell. The dog died, and, on the danger of abdominal effusion. The founda- examination, there was found a considerable quail- lion of these unqualified conclusions is five ex- tity of feces and water in the abdominal cavity. periments, made on dogs, in four of which ex- Two more trials were made of Mr. John periments, the divided bowel was brought to- Bell’s plan by Dr. Smith, on the intestines of gether with one stitch, on Mr. John Bell’s plan, dogs: in both instances the animals died, the while, in another, three stitches were made; and, intestines being much inflamed, and feces effused yet, in all these instances, the animals died with in the abdomen. (See Dr. Smith's Thesis.) the contents of the bowels effused. So far the Mr. Travers likewise tried the same experi- inferences seem established. Unfortunately, ment. “ I divided the small intestine of a dog, for their stability, however, Mr. Travers imme- which had been for some hours fasting, and diately afterwards proceeds to relate other ex- carried a fine stitch through the everted edges, periments, instituted by Sir Astley Cooper, Dr. at the point opposite to their connexion with the Thomson, and Dr. Smith, which, though Mr. mesentery. The gut was then allowed to slip Travers seems unaware of the fact, tend most