1196 WOUNDS. French term them, was imputed, not only the cessation of all the bad symptoms, but a speedy recovery. (See la Faye's Notes to the Truitt dcs Operations de Dionis.) An officer was shot in the left side of the chest. The ball entered about where the bone and carti- lage of the seventh true rib unite, 'and came out in the situation of the angle of the same bone, which was broken in two places. The posterior part of the first false rib was also broken. In- cisions were made, which enabled the surgeon to take away several splinters of bone, and facilitated, (that mischievous French practice) the introduc- tion of a seton. Soft mild dressings were ap- plied. The patient was bled twenty-six times, with the view of relieving the fever, difficulty of breathing, and spitting of blood. On the fifth day, suppuration commenced, and the seton could be easily drawn. In about a fortnight, the pa- tient’s sufferings considerably abated, and he passed some of the ensuing days in a tolerably easy state. Circumstances, however, made it necessary to move him to another place, and on the twenty-fourth day, he had a bad night; febrile symptoms came on ; and the discharge was not of its usual consistence. He was bled twice more, and his critical state led the surgeon to examine the wounds again. On passing a finger into the posterior wound, a foreign body was felt, and easily extracted. It was a piece of the patient’s coat. A spicula of bone was also felt more deeply lodged, which required the wound to be dilated. Partial relief followed the removal of these extraneous substances. On the thirtieth day, the bad symptoms re- curred, two more bleedings were practised, and, as fears were entertained that the seton teas doing harm, it was suppressed. The patient now first made complaint of feeling something, which pricked him, in a deep situation, between the two openings of the wound. It was therefore determined to divide all the parts intervening between the two orifices, and occupying an ex- tent of seven or eight inches. Guerin cut the, parts between the two ribs, from within outward, under the guidance of his finger introduced into the posterior wound, care being taken not to cut near the lower edge of the upper rib. In this way, the whole track of the ball was laid open, and in the middle of it a very sharp splinter was found, projecting into the substance of the lungs. It was removed, and the wound dressed with simple applications. From this day all the bad symptoms ceased. (Ohs. de Guerin in Mem. de l’Acad, de Chir. T. 2; 4to.) Mr. John Bell has taken notice of the pre- ceding case: he observes, that some of Guerin’s steps were bold and good, as well as successful; but, that the employment of the seton was wrong. The example teaches us several important cir- cumttances: 1. The propriety of making very free dilatations for the extraction of splinters of bone. 2. The utility of repeated copious bleed- ings, which, in the above case, indeed, had the greatest effect both in preventing such hemor- rhage in the chest, as would probably have pro- duced suffocation, and also in averting a degree of pulmonary inflammation, which would have proved fatal. 7\ rr 1 iiwli/.ti,ittlv pnndem ns t he seton ; “ Had M. Guerin (says he) been asked what good it was to do, it would have been difficult for him to have invented even a plausible apology for the practice, which if it was not doing good, could not fail to do harm. Was this seton ne- cessary for keeping the wound open? No, surely; for the wound could not have closed, while it was irritated, and kept in suppuration by splinters of bone, and a piece of cloth within the breast. Was it to draw the piece of cloth out ? Surely, in the course of twenty days, a piece of cloth would have had some chance, at least, of being floated towards the wound, either by the natural flux of the matter, or by the help of a mild in- jection. Was it useful in supporting the dis- charge? This would have been a sore question for M. Guerin ; for it supported the suppuration only by inflaming the chest; and where inflam- mation of the chest, or high cough, or bloody expectoration, or a profuse discharge, were the chief dangers, a great seton could hardly be a comfortable inmate in the breast. I think one might very boldly promise to produce bloody expectoration and terrible cough, pro- fuse suppurations, and oppression, to any de- gree, by drawing such a cord across a sound thorax.” Mr. John Bell next censures M. Guerin for not having discovered the pricking piece of bone before the thirty-eighth day; a disadvantage, which he partly ascribes to the seton, the pain of drawing which across the chest deadened every lesser pain, and, consequently, the patient could not feel the trifling pricking of the bone, till his greater sufferings from the seton were allayed. “ In short (says Mr. John Bell), M. Guerin passes a great strap of coarse linen across the cavity of the chest, and when it causes inflam- mation, he thinks to subdue it by bleeding; when M. Guerin continued for thirty days drawing a coarse seton through the breast every morning, and bleeding for the cough every night, what did he do, but raise inflammation with his left hand, to shew how well he could cure it with his right?” (See John Bell on Wounds, Vol. 2, p. 36—38.) The liability of wounds of the chest to tie complicated with the lodgment of foreign bodies, is a circumstance, of which the practitioner should ever be mindful. “ In the examinations of the bodies of soldiers, who have died from these in- juries (says Dr. Hennen), I have frequently found pieces of wadding or clothes, spicula; of bone, and balls, and, in one case, some charpie used as a dressing; either loose in various parts of the lungs, or lying in sacs, which the ex- ertions of the constitution to free itself, had thrown round them by the medium of the coa- gulating lymph. In the more fortunate few, who have recovered, these matters have been discharged from the wounds, or extracted from them by the surgeon. In some lucky cases, thev have been ejected by the convulsive efforts to cough, which their irritation has occasioned.’’ {On Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 367.) For an account of the dexterity, with which Larrey has sometimes traced balls in the chest, and ex- tracted them by bold operations, I must refer to his valuable writings. (Sec Mem. de Chir. Mil T 4, 250, Src.) Balls have sometimes