U'l'E 1 130 tion of urine, nausea, and pain in lier belly. The means, which were employed, not proving effectual, Mr. Lynn suspected a retroversio uterh and introduced his fingers into the vagina, in order to ascertain the fact. His fingers were stopped by a tumor, as large as a child’s head. The swelling occupied the back part of this pas- sage, and descended as low as the perinaeum. Being certain, that the uterus was displaced, he attempted to reduce it. The patient was put into various positions, and the fingers of one hand were introduced into the vagina, while those of the other were passed into the rectum. The use of the catheter was not forgotten ; but it could noi be introduced far enough to reach the urine. Glysters were stopped at the very be- ginning of the rectum. The abdomen was ex- ceedingly tense, especially in the hypogastric region. A proposal was made to puncture the bladder; but the patient refused 10 submit, and preferred being left to her fate. On the seventh day of her illness, she was very much reduced ; and became affected with nausea, and hiccough, the forerunners of mortification. At length, she felt something give way in her abdomen, and the ease, which succeeded, revived her hopes. These, however, were not of long duration, for, after being delivered, she sunk, and died the next morning, On opening the body, the blad- der was found to have sloughed, and burst at se- veral points, and two pints of urine were conse- quently extravasated in the abdomen. Retroversio uteri is a dangerous affection; but it is not invariably fatal, particularly when the patient receives succour, before the dis- order has made much progress. Though Calli- sen met with a case after delivery, and Desault knew an instance in which the displacement was produced by a polypus, retroversio uteri scarcely ever occurs, except in the early months of preg- nancy, and in women whose pelvis is very wide, while its brim is very contracted. If the uterus, in a pelvis of this conformation, be pushed back by a distended bladder, and pressed against the sacrum, while the soft parts yield, the womb be- comes, as it were, wedged, and is incapable of changing its position. In this immoveable state, it presses upon the surrounding parts, and these upon it, so that a very serious train of bad sym- ptoms are the consequence. The first care of a practitioner, consulted in a case of retroversio uteri, should be to empty the bladder and large intestines, and to relax the parts by every possible meaiys. Then he should immediately proceed to replace the uterus, by placing the patient in a suitable posture, and making methodical pressure in the rectum and vagina. Should he be so fortunate as to suc- ceed, the patient is to be confined in bed, her bowels are to be kept open, and she is to be ad- vised always to obey the calls of nature the first moment she feels auy inclination to make water. She is also to be enjoined to avoid all kinds of exertion, and wait till the gradual enlargement of the uterus removes the possibility of this vis- cus descending into the pelvis. (Sabatier, Me- dccinc Operatoire, T. 2.) Some practitioners, of considerable eminence, J! x 1. „ infnrfnrpnpp trr>_ uvu urine will generally render such interference un- necessary. {Croft, in Loud. Med. Jouru. Vol. 9, Jj. 53. Denman's Introduction to Midwifery, 4to. Loud. 1801. S Mcrriman, on Retroversion of the Womb, Hvo. Loud. 1810.) (See Lynn, W. Hunter, Garthshorc, Bird, and Hooper, in Med. Obs. and Inq. Vols. 4, 5, and 6. Cheston and Cleghorn, in Med. Communications, Vol. ‘2. John Clarice, Practical Essays on the Management of Preg- nancy and Labour, Lond. 1793. Murray, in Uteri Rciroversionem Animadvcrsiones, Up- sal. 1797> Denmans Introduction to Mid- wifery, Lond. 1801. S. Merriman, on Re- troversion of the Womb, Sfc. 8vo. Lond. 1810. Jalm, De Utcro Retroverso, Jen. 1787. Des- granges, in Jouru. de Med. T. 66, p. 85. Klein, Chir. Bemerkungcn, p. 2:55. Baudc- locque sur le Rcnvcrsement de la Mai rice, Sfc. Paris, 1803. Cockcll, Essay on Retroversion of the Uterus, Loud, 1785. Richter, Chir. Bill. B. 4, p. 61— 70—235—555: B. 5, p. 132—548; B. 7, p. 292; B. 8, p. 715; B. 9, p. 182; B. 11, p. 310—328: B. 12, p. 45—50.) UVA URSI, which was first brought into notice by De Haen, was once considered a pow- erful remedy in calculus ; but, though its virtue, in lessening the irritation of the bladder, is still acknowledged, its claim to utility on any other principle, is quite rejected. Dr. Austin recom- mended it for lessening the irritability of the bladder, and diminishing the secretion of diseased mucus, which, he supposed, greatly contributed to the augmentation of the stone. Mr. B. Bell also strongly recommended it in gonorrhoea, where the irritability of the bladder was excited in a high degree, and where the urine was loaded with viscid matter. In these cases, he directed a scruple, or half a dram, of the powder three times a day. Dr. Saunders orders three drams of uva ursi to be macerated in a pint of hot water, and two or three ounces of the strained liquor to be given three times a day. {Pharm. Chirurg.) UVULA, AMPUTATION OF. The uvula is subject to several kinds of enlargement, in which it becomes both longer and more bulky than natural, or is simply lengthened. In con- sequence of such changes, it becomes trouble- some in deglutition and speaking, and causes a disagreeable tickling at the root of the tongue, frequent retchings, and an annoying cough. When things have attained this state, medi- cines are often ineffectual, and the only plan of relief consists in amputating a portion of the uvula. The ancients used to take hold of the uvula with a pair of forceps, and cut off a piece of it below the blades of the instrument. Fabricius ab Aquapendente objected to this method, because it employed both hands, and a third was needed for holding the tongue and lower jaw. He preferred scissars, and having the left hand at liberty. When the size of the uvula was considerable, and bleeding apprehended, Pare recommended the application of a ligature to the part, by means nf™ instrument, eomnosed of a l iner, mounted on