ULCERS. 1069 -«* : V*f f. : ) very judiciously represents the greater pro- v of preventing the granulations from ever I ming too high by the employment of proper , cations, than following the common plan of i -eying the high granulations with escharo- ; after they have risen to an improper height, e cannot be the smallest doubt, that if the ulations could always be prevented from i j ; r up too much, the patient would suffer a j : deal less pain. -stead of applying to the surface of the ulcers, under consideration, lunar caustic, blue vit- red precipitate, &c. Sir E. Home prefers :.ng these escharotics with other substances, i to render them only strong stimulants, and U ,; them in this latter form. He conceives, when the high granulations are destroyed escharotics, the disposition of the surface • ' ; rneath to reproduce them is increased, but, this is not the case, when the luxuriant parts inly stimulated, so as to become absorbed. | he same gentleman seems to think, that, a animal substances grow with great rapidity, are, like vegetable ones, weaker, than when I luced in a slower manner. Hence, Sir E. i ne is of opinion, that the growth of granula- s ought to be checked in the early stage of & r formation, by some resistance, which they just able to overcome, under which circum- ,; -ces, they derive strength from the limited _\ase of action, which they are obliged to n the same principle, according to Sir E. ne, the pressure of tight bandages is advan- ous, and ulcers, which heal, while the patient :alking about, are not so apt to break out n as others healed, while the parts are in a • of perfect rest. n the treatment of these ulcers, when the tulations have come to a proper height, and lot form a thin, semi-transparent pellicle upon r surface, they are to be considered as weak s, and-treated accordingly. Sir E. Home ks, that, in this circumstance, the best plan, •n no particularity of constitution forbids, is ssure, made with a thin piece of lead over the isings, and supported with a tight bandage. APPLICATIONS TO ULCEUS ATTENDED WITH WEAKNESS. tlthough, strictly, we have no topical appli- ons, which can directly communicate strength jranulatiCns, there are certainly some which vent the granulations from exhausting them- es by luxuriant growth, and stimulate them draw more blood from the arteries; which ?ts, as Sir E. Home remarks, render such aulations stronger. . This gentleman very properly condemns, as lications to weak ulcers, all relaxing foment- ■ns commonly employed; and recommends end of them, the use of spirits of wine, and decoction of poppies, in equal proportions, , however, to be applied hot. •• With regard to moist applications, the same itleman expresses his disapprobation of poul :s, and mentions a weak solution of the ar- itum nitratum, ns the most eligible applicatioi ar. aqueous form. 3. On the subject <}f powdered substances, a applications to weak ulcers, Sir E. Home says, he has often tried bark, and the lapis calaminaris, without perceiving that the former had any power of strengthening granulations, or the latter any virtue in disposing them to form new skin; pro- perties commonly imputed to these applications. Sir E. Home entertains no better opinion of plaster of Paris, or powdered chalk, employed with a view of promoting the formation of skin. Powdered carbon he speaks of as being more adapted to irritable, than weak ulcers. He praises powdered rhubarb, as particularly appli- cable to the latter kind of ulcer, because it re- presses the luxuriant growth of the granulations, renders them small and compact, and disposes them to form skin. When, however, the gra- nulations have arisen above the level of the skin, it is not powerful enough to reduce them. When the rhubarb is too stimulating, it is to be mixed with a fourth part of crude opium in powder. A piece of lint, a little less than the sore, is always to be put over the powder, and covered with a pledget of simple ointment. 4, Ointments, according to Sir E. Home, are particularly apt to disagree with weak ulcers. When other applications fail, however, greasy ones may be tried, and the above gentleman gives a preference to the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. mixed with hog’s lard, in the proportion of one to five, or else to common cerate, blended with a small quantity of the hydrarg. nitrat. ruber. OF ULCEUS IN TARTS, WHOSE ACTIONS ARE TOO VIOLENT TO FORM HEALTHY GRANULATIONS, EITHER FROM THE STATE OF THE PARTS, OR THE CONSTITUTION : SIMPLE VITIATED ULCERS OF MR. B. BELL. There are three states of the constitution in- fluencing the nature of ulcers ; an irritable state, in which all the actions of the animal economy are more rapid than in health ; an indolent state, in which they are unusually languid; and, lastly, a diseased state, by which they' are affected. An irritable and an indolent ulcer cannot in general be distinguished from each other by mere appearances, though they may be so in a few in- stances. Sir E. Home informs us, that'the dis- position of an ulcer, like the disposition of a constitution, can only be accurately ascertained by determining the actions which arise from the different impressions made upon it. The same gentleman notices, that the follow- ing appearances at once shew the ulcer to be of an irritable kind. The margin of the surround- ing skin being jagged, and terminating in an edge, which is sharp and undermined. The bottom of the ulcers being made up of conca- vities of different sizes. There being no distinct appearance of granulations, but a whitish spongy substance, covered with a thin ichorous discharge. Every thing that touches the surface gives pain, and very commonly makes it bleed. The dis- charge is altered from common pus to a thin fluid, in proportion to the degree of irritability communicated to the sore by constitutional causes. The pain of an irritable sore in general gra- dually becomes less. When it is not constant but comes on in paroxysms chiefly in the even- ing, or night-time, with great violence, convul-