in addition to the consideration of the talents and characters of the experimenters themselves, the facts were witnessed by numerous medical students. And, notwithstanding the objections which have been urged against the account, (see joum. Gen. de Med. T. 52, p. 13), the main points are declared to be entitled to credit. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 48.) With these relations, it is proper to notice certain cases, too credulously promulgated as proofs of the possibility of the disease being communicated from one human being to another. Neither the instance of the maid-servant, who die<l merely from seeing her mistress vomit, while labouring under hydrophobia (Mich. Ettmuller, Op. Med. T. 2); the case of the peasant’s children, which all died on the seventh day, as is alleged from embracing their dying father; the example of a woman contracting hydrophobia from her husband, as detailed by Mangor (Acta Soe. Reg. Hafnir.ns. V. 2, Ohs. 32, p, 408) ; nor other cases of a similar tenor; are now regarded as proving any thing more, than that the patients, supposed to have caught the disease by contagion, fell victims either to violent affections of the mind and nervous system, or illnesses accidentally taking place soon alter the death of a near relation, or mis- tress. It is clear enough also, that some of the cases were, at most, only instances of sym- ptomatic hydrophobia. With regard to another opinion, that the bite of a man, or other animal, when merely enraged, may bring on hydrophobia, it is now entirely dis- carded as erroneous. The cases in support of it, recorded by Cl. Pouteati, Mangctus, Mai pighi, Zuinger, Le Cat, See. when critically ex- amined, only prove, that the patients were affected with tetanus, or symptomatic hydrophobia, not arising from any infection; for, neither the mode of attack, nor the progress of the sym- ptoms, in any of the examples which are related with sufficient minuteness, lead to the inference, that the patients actually died of rabies. ^See Did. des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 49.) Wrong notions, of a very dangerous tendency, have been generally entertained, in regard to the disease, as it appears in the canine race. The writer of the article Dug, in Dr. llees’s Cyclo- paedia, appears to havehad extensive opportunities of observing the disorder in dogs, having paid attention to more than two hundred cases. From his remarks, I have collected the following information. The peculiar symptom, which characterises the complaint in the human subject, has been applied to the disease in the dog, and has occa- sioned it to be called by the same name, hydro- phobia. This is a palpable misnomer ; for, in no instance, does there ever exist any dread of water; on the contrary, dogs are in general very greedy after it. Such unfounded supposi- tion lias often conduced to a very fatal error : for, it being the received opinion, that no dog is mad, who can lap water, many persons have been lulled into a dangerous security. Another equally false and fatal idea has prevailed, that every mad dog must be wild and furious; but, this is so far from being true, that, in the greater number of instances, there is very little of that wild savage fury, that is .expected by the gene- BYDROPHOBIA. G7i ralily of persons. “ Hence,” says this author, “ as it is evident, that the term hydrophobia, characterizing the affection in the dog, is a mis- nomer, so it is evident, that the term madness is equally so. In no instance, have I ever ob- served a total alienation of the mind ; in very few, have the mental faculties been disturbed. The disposition to do mischief is rather an in- creased irritability, than absence of sense; for, in most instances, even those that are furious, they acknowledge the master’s voice, and are obedient.” The symptom, which is most fre- quently first observable in a rabid dog, is a cer- tain peculiarity in his manner; some strange departure from his usual habits. In a very great number of instances, the peculiarity consists in a disposition to pick up straws, bits of paper, rag, threads, or the smallest objects, which may happen to be on the floor. This is said to be par- ticularly common in small dogs. “ Others again show an early peculiarity by licking the parts of another dog. In one instance, the approach of the disease was foretold, by our observing a very uncommon attachment in a pug-puppy, towards a kitten, which he was constantly licking; and likewise the cold nose of a healthy pug, that was with him. An attachment to the sensation of cold appears in many cases, it being very com- mon to observe them (the dogs) licking the cold iron, cold stones, &c. Some dogs, early in the disease, will eat their own excrement, and lap their own urine.” An early antipathy to strange dogs and cats is very commonly observed, but particularly to cats. As the disease advances, the affected dogs bite those with which they are domesticated, and, lastly, the persons around ; but, except in a moment of irritability, they seldom attack the human subject. The irrita- bility, that induces them to bite, is very strong ; but is devoid of wildness. It is more like peevishness than fury. A stick held up at them always excites their anger in a violent degree, and throughout the disease, there is generally a wonderful impatience of control, and the animals are with great difficulty frightened. (See art. Dog hi Rees's Cyclopcedia.) To this passage the following remarks may be added:—Dr. John Hunter calculated, that out of every dozen of rabid dogs, about one evinces no particular tendency to bite. That these ani- mals, and wolves also, have no particular dread of fluid, is proved by facts. Thus, a rabid wolf, at Frejus, swam aeross several rivers. (Darluc, Rcciieil Period. d’Obs. Vol. 4.) Duloueix has seen mad dogs drink without difficulty, and plentifully. (Hist, clc la Soe. de Med. an. 1783.) Rabid animals will sometimes eat as well as drink. Thus, the wolf which bit so many persons at Meyne, in 1718, was found in the morning devouring a shepherd’s dog. And Dr. Gilman speaks of a dog, which was not deemed rabid, because it eat and drank well; but, as it seemed indisposed, it was killed, though not before it had bit a man, who fell a victim to hydrophobia. (On the Bite of a Rabid Animal, p. 15.) When a dog bites a person, it should not be immediately killed, but merely chained up, be- cause, by destroying it at once, the possibility of ascertaining whether it was rabid is prevented, and great alarm is thus kept up in the mind of ! '