322 ' GONORRIICBA. cannot always be thus accomplished. Mild cases, without ulcer or excoriation in the urethra, may certainly be radically cured without a grain of mercury; and though mercury should be given, it would not have the least effect: not because the disease does not proceed from the venereal poison, but because out of the course of the cir- culation. lie contends, that the topical use of mercury in injections, acts usefully even in these cases. But, when a clap is joined with ulcera- tion in the urethra, it is always cured more safely and expeditiously with mercury, and is frequently incurable without it. A lues also follows cases attended with ulcers in the urethra. He allows that all claps are not venereal. (See Pract. Obs. on Venereal Complaints, by J. Suietliaur.) One argument urged against the identity of go- norrhoeal and chancrous virus,is, that gonorrhoea was not described as a symptom, till nearly half a century after the other symptoms of the vene- real disease were known. Fallopius is among the first who observed gonorrhoea, as a symptom of the venereal disease. “ If, however,” says Dr. Adams, “venereal gonorrhoea was unnoticed till about fifty years after the other forms of the disease were described, what does this prove, but that contag ous gonorrhoea was so corhmon, as to be disregarded as a symptom of the new com- plaint? Can there be a doubt, from the caution given by Moses, that gonorrhoea was considered as contagious in his days? During the classical age, we find inconveniencies of the urinary pas- sages were imputed to incontinence; and the police of several states, before the siege of Naples, made laws for preserving the health of such as would content themselves with public stews, instead of disturbing the peace of families. This is enough to lessen our surprize, that go- norrhoea should be unnoticed for some time after t ie appearance of the venereal disease. But, so far is it from proving that the two contagions are different, that the fairest inference we can draw is in favor of their identity. For, if by this time the venereal disease began to be so far under- stood, that secondary symptoms were found the consequence of primary ones in the genitals, it is most probable that the first suspicion of vene- real gonorrhoea arose from the occurrence of such secondary appearances, where no other pri- mary symptoms could be traced.’’ (Adams on Morbid Poisons, jj. >)5, Ed. 2.) In relating the arguments, maintained by the best modern writers, to repel the attacks made on the doctrine, that gonorrhoea and chancre arise from the same poison, we have been com- pelled to disclose the chief grounds, on which the assailants venture to entertain a contrary theory. The sentiments of Mr. B. Bell are quite at variance with those of Hunter, Sawrey, Swediaur, Adams, &c.; but, my limits will only allow me just to enumerate a few of his leading arguments. If the matter of gonorrhoea, and that of chancre, were of the same nature, we must ad- mit, that a person with a chancre only, can com- municate to another, not only every symptom of pox, but of gonorrhoea; and that another, with gonorrhoea only, can give to all, with whom he may have connexion, chancres, with their various consequences. This ought indeed to be a very frequent occurrence; whereas, all allow that it is even in appeal ante very rare. On the supposition of the matter of gonorrhoea and lues venerea being the same, the latter ought to be a much more frequent occurrence than the former, from the greater ease with which the matter of infection must, in every instance, be applied to those parts on which it can produce chancres, than that of the urethra, where instead of chancre or ulceration, it almost always excites gonorrhoea. It is difficult to conceive how the matter by which the disease is communicated, should find access to the urethra; while all the external parts of the penis, particularly the glans, must be easily and universally exposed to it; and yet gonorrhoea is a much more frequent dis- ease than pox. Cases of gonorrhoea are in pro- portion to those of chancre, according to Mr. B. Bell’s experience, as three to one. It is obvi- ous that the very reverse should happen, if the two diseases were produced by the same kind of matter. I need not adduce other arguments, as the reader must be already acquainted with any worth knowing, from what is said in the previous part of this article. The grand practical consideration, depending on the possibility of the venereal disease arising from gonorrhoea, is whether mercurials should not be exhibited, in all cases, with a view of preventing such a consequence. Waving on my own part, all attempts to de- cide the point, whether the matter of a chancre, and that of one species of gonorrhoea, are of the same nature, I shall merely content myself with stating, that as far as my observation and en- quiries extend, the majority of the best prac- titioners of the present day consider the exhi- bition of mercury unnecessary, and, consequently improper in all cases of gonorrhoea. This fact almost amounts to a proof, that if venereal sym- ptoms do ever follow a clap, they are so rare, and, I may add, always so imputable to other causes, that the employment of mercury, as a preventive, would, upon the whole, do more injury, than benefit to mankind; and this even admitting (what, in my mind, has never been unequivocally proved) that the matter of gonor- rhoea is really capable, in a very few instances, of giving rise to the venereal disease. The reader must weigh the different arguments himself. Some of Mr. B. Bell’s reasoning is certainly untenable, as Mr. Sawrey has clearly shewn ; but the latter, also, is not invulnerable in many points, which he strives to defend. The reader is referred, for further information, to J. F. Steed cl, de Ginurrluea Vunlcnta, 4to. Argent. 169b. W. Cockbttru, The Symptoms, Nature, Cause, and Cure of a Gonorrlura, Svo. Lonti. 1728. J. Andree, An Essay on the Theory and Cure of the Venereal Gonoirhoea, and the Ds- cases which happen in consequence of that Disorder, 8vo. Land. 1777. J. Necill. A Description of the Venereal Gonorrhaa, 8vo. Loud 1754. J. Nor- man, Method of Curing the Virulent Stillicidium, or Gonorrloea, with an Account of the Efficacy of Plummer's Alterative Pills, 8co. J. Cltihhe, An Essay on the Gniwrrhcen Virulenta, in which the different Opinions respecting the Treatment of the Disease arc carefully examined, Nr. 8c<>. Loud. 1786. S.'F. Simmons, Ohs. on the Cure of Gonor- rhoea, 8ro, Eond. 1780. W. Thomas, An Essay on Gonorrhoea, with some Ohs. on the Use of Opium in the Cure of that Disease, 3iv. Land. 1 780. A