POLYPUS. 935 Acute symptoms frequently follow the ap- lication of the ligature, and are either of an in- ammatory, or spasmodic kind. The former »quire antiphlogistic treatment. Sometimes fe- er arises, and the polypus becomes exceed- igly painful: in this case, venesection is ne- essary. Spasmodic symptoms require the ex- ibition of opium. When this is ineffectual, r.d the symptoms are severe, it may be proper ) slacken the ligature a little. As the polypus t first always swells, it produces great pressure n the adjacent parts. For this reason, it is ge- erally necessary, for the first few days, to draw ff the urine with the catheter, and to open the owels with glysters. Sometimes hemorrhage ikes place. This may generally be suppressed it nth astringents; but, when they prove ineffec- ■ uual, tying the ligature more tightly answers the purpose. The rest of the treatment resembles hat of nasal polypi. When the polypus is large, it is often neces- ;ary in the end to use forceps for its extraction. The inflammation, or ulceration, liable to be oc- casioned in the vagina during the treatment, re- juires injections, and antiphlogistic remedies. As the ligature is generally applied round the pedicle, close to the os uteri, and seldom to the very root of the polypus, usually situated at the 'undus uteri, a portion of the root almost always remains behind, after the tumor has separated; but, in all probability, it afterwards diminishes, [.and falls off and, however this may be, it is an '.undoubted fact, that a polypus uteri is seldom re- iproduced. (Richter.) This author observes, that cutting instruments :are, in general, improper for polypi of the ute- rrus, as their employment would injure the va- _gina, and for the most part, occasion a dangerous hemorrhage. However, there is one case where the knife is indispensable. The polypus has oc- casionally a ligamentous pedicle, and conse- quently can neither be tied nor extracted. This circumstance is usually undiscovered till after a ligature has been applied, which here commonly produces extraordinary pain, and, though it be applied ever so long, and forcibly, occasions no detachment of the polypus. In this instance, the surgeon may either cut off the polypus closely to its root in the vagina; or he may first draw it gradually downward out of this situation, and then remove it: perhaps the first object might be performed with a sharp hook, somewhat curved at its side, and similar to what is used for tearing the foetus piecemeal in the uterus; or, with what seems better, a pair of long curved, blunt- pointed scissars. The last object may be ac- complished with an instrument resembling Smel- lie’s midwifery forceps, which is to be introduced into the vagina in the ordinary way. The po- lypus is then to be taken hold of, and gradually drawn so far out of the vagina, that its pedicle niay be divided with a knife. This is, indeed, not done without pain, and a forcible inversion of the uterus; but it may be executed without dangerous consequences. When a polypus, whose root is attached to the fundus uteri, lies in the vagina, the uterus is alwiiys, in some de- gree, inverted beforehand; and this state is, therefore, only increased by the foregoing plan, which does not create danger when done slowly, and cautiously. It. is a plan which has been successfully practised. (See Hcrbiniaux, Pa- ra lie lc des differens Instrumcns pour la Liga- ture dcs Polypes.) When a polypus, that has its pedicle attached to the fundus uteri, suddenly falls downward, it occasions a sudden inversion of this viscus. In order to relieve, as speedily as possible, the great pain and danger of this case, the surgeon must tie the root of the polypus, as soon, and as firmly as he can, and pass the ligature, by means of a needle through the pedicle, before the place where it is tied, allowing the ends afterwards to hang down for some length. Then the polypus is to be amputated below the ligature, and the uterus immediately reduced. This is another example, where a cutting instrument may be used with advantage. The ordinary method of tying such tumors, so situated, accomplishes only a slow detachment of them, and does not afford relief with sufficient expedition. Fleshy excrescences also occasionally form in the vagina, some of which have a broad basis, and others a thin pedicle. The last merit the appellation of polypi. Their existence is easily ascertained by the touch. By making pressure on the bladder, and rectum, they occasion seve- ral impediments to the evacuation of the urine and feces. They may be conveniently tied, by means of the double cannula. Should the polypus be situated at the lower part of the va- gina, the cannulas would not be required. The ligature might be applied with the hand, and the tumor cut off below the constricted part. There is still another kind of tumor in the vagina, to be classed in the rank of polypi. It resembles, in many points, the polypus of the mucous membrane of the nostril, consisting al- together of the membranous lining of the vagina, which, at the part affected, becomes relaxed, thickened, and elongated; hence the tumor might be more properly termed a prolapsus of the membranous lining of the vagina, than a polypus. When it resists the efficacy of astrin- gent and corroborant injections, it may be tied, or, what is better, cut off. A polypus in the oesophagus renders deglu- tition difficult; and, when of large size, puts an entire stop to it. When an inclination to vomit is excited by Irritating the throat with the finger, or a feather, the polypus, if situated towards the upper part of the tube, ascends into the mouth, so as to become visible. But, as it impedes re- spiration during its residence in the mouth, the patient is soon necessitated, as it were, to swal- low it again. When the polypus is situated far down the oesophagus, of course, it cannot be brought into the mouth, and is very difficult to detect. The difficulty of swallowing, its only symptom, may result from other causes. In this case it is also incurable; for it is impossible to take hold of it with instruments. An ope- ration can only be practised, when the polypus is situated at the upper part of the oesophagus. The tumor cannot be extracted ; and the tying of it is difficult. Polypi in the rectum may be tied with the aid of the cannulac. Excrescences in the meatus nuditorius externus, resembling polypi, have been successfully extirpated by extraction, or rather by twisting them off. For many of the foregoing remarks, I ant in-