342 CORNEA. of those in the delicate lamina of this tunic, con= tinned over the front of the cornea; and finally it is followed by an effusion of albuminous lymph in the texture of this thin laver, expanded over the transparent part of the eve. This effusion never elevates itself in the shape of a pustule. Wherever the cornea is affected with nebula, the part of the conjunctiva, corresponding to it, is constantly occupied by a net-work of varicose veins, more knotty and prominent than other vessels of the same description, and though the cornea be clouded at more points than one, there are distinct corresponding fasciculi of varicose veins in the white of the eye. Scarpa injected an eye atleeted with chronic ophthalmy, and nebula, and he found that the wax easily passed, both into the enlarged veins of the conjunctiva, and those of that part of the surface of the cornea where the opacity existed; the inosculations all round the margin of the eornpa were beautifully variegated, without trespassing that line, which bounds the sclerotica, except on that side, where the cornea was affected with the species of opacity. Mr. Travers does not adopt precisely the same definition of nebula, as Scarpa ; for, he describes it as a thickening of the conjunctiva, and an ef- fusion of adhesive matter between it and the cornea, or between the lame/iep of the latter, com- monly the product of acute strumous ophthalmy. (Synopsis, dr. p. 118.) According to Scarpa, the superficial opacity, which alone he calls nebula, demands, from its very origin, active treatment; for, though at first it may only occupy a small portion of the cornea, when left to itself it advances towards the centre of this membrane, and the ramifications of the dilated veins upon this coat growing still larger, at length convert the delicate continua- tion of the conjunctiva upon the surface of the cornea, into a dense opaque membrane, obstruct- ing vision. The curative indication in this disease is to make the varicose vessels resume their natural diameters, or if that be impracticable, to cut off all communication between the trunk of the most prominent varicose veins of the conjunctiva, and the ramifications coming from the surface of the cornea, the seat of the opacity. The first mode of treatment is executed by means of topical astringents and corroborants, especially Janin’s ophthalmic ointment, and success attends it, when the opacity is in an early stale, and not extensive. But when advanced to the centre of the cornea, the most infallible treatment is the ex- cision of the fasciculus of varicose veins near their ramifications, that o, near the seat of the opacity. By means of this excision, the blood retarded in the dilated veins of the cornea is voided; the varicose veins of the conjunctiva have an oppor- tunity to contract and regain their tone, no longer having blood impelled into them ; and the turbid secretion effused in the texture of the layer of the conjunctiva continued over the cornea, or in the cellular substance, connecting these two mem- branes, becomes absorbed. The celerity, with which the nebula disappears, after this operation, is surprising, commonly in twenty-four hours. The extent, to which the excision of the varicose veins of the conjunctiva must be performed, de- pends upon the extent of the opacity of the cor- nea. Thus, should there be only one set of varicose vessels, corresponding to an opacity of moderate extent, it is sufficient to cut a portion of them away. Should there appear several dim specks upon the cornea, with as many distinct sets of varicose vessels, arranged round upon the white of the eye, the surgeon must make a cir- cular incision into the conjunctiva, near the mar- gin of the cornea, by which he will certainly divide every plexus of varicose vessels. But let it be observed, that a simple incision through the vari- cose vessels is not permanently effectual in de- stroying all direct communication between the trunks and ramifications of these vessels upon the cornea, after such an incision made, for instance, with a lancet; though it be true that a separa- tion of the mouths of the divided vessels follows in opposite directions, it is no less true, that in the course of a few days after the incision, the mouths of the same vessels approximate each other, and inosculate, so as to resume their former continuity. Hence, to derive from this opera- tion all possible advantage, it is essential to ex- tirpate with the knife a small portion of the vari- cose plexus, together with the adherent particle of the tunica conjunctiva. T. he eyelids are to be separated from the af- fected eye by a skilful assistant, who is, at the same moment, to support the patient’s head upon his breast. The surgeon is then to take hold of the varicose vessels, with a pair of small forceps, near the edge of the cornea, and to lift them a little up, which the lax state of the conjunctiva renders easy ; then, with a pair of small curved scissars, he is to cut away the plexus of varicose vessels, together with a small piece of the con- junctiva, making the wound of a semilunar form, and, as near as possible to the cornea. If it should be necessary to operate upon more than one plexus of varicose vessels, situated at some distance apart, the surgeon must elevate them one after the other with the forceps and remove them. But, when they are very close together, and occupy every side of the eye, he must make an uninterrupted circular incision in the conjunc- tiva, guiding it closely to the margin of the cor- nea all round, so as to divide with the conjunc- tiva, all the varicose vessels. This being done, he may allow the cut vessels to bleed freely; even promoting the hemor- rhage by fomenting the eyelids, until the blood discontinues to flow. Scarpa then covers the eye with an oval piece of the emplastrum saponis, and a retentive bandage. The eye ought not to be opened till twenty-four hours after the opera- tion, when, usually, the opacity of the cornea will be found completely dispersed; and, during the ensuing days, the patient is to be enjoined to keep the eye shut, and covered with a bit of fine rag. A collyrium of milk and rose-water warm, may be applied two or three times a day. When the inflammation of the conjunctiva happens, about the second or third day after the operation, particularly in cases in which the incision is made all round, while the greater part of the sphere of the eye reddens, a whitish circle, in the place of the incision, forms a line of boundary to the redness which does not extend further Upon the cornea. This inflammation of the con- junctiva, with the aid of internal antiphlogistic remedies, and topical emollients, abates in a few days, and then pus is secreted along the track of