AMPUTATION. 55 this practice is highly dangerous, and undeserv- ing of confidence. Whatever pains may be taken in the operation, only to divide sound parts, there is no certainty of succeeding in this object, and the most skilful practitioner may be deceived. The skin may appear to be perfectly sound and free from inflammation, while the muscles which it covers, and the parts immediately surrounding the bone, may actually be in a gangrenous state. But even when the soft parts are found free from apparent distemper, on making the incision, still, if the operator should not have waited till the mortification has ceased to spread, the stump will almost always be attacked by gangrene. Surgeons, who have had opportunities* of fre- quently seeing wounds which have a tendency to mortify, entertain the latter opinion. Such was the sentiment of Pott, who says, that he has often seen the experiment made, of amputating a limb in which gangrene had begun to show itself, but never saw it succeed, and it invariably hastened the patient’s death. The operation may be postponed, however, too long. Mr. S. Sharp, in particular, recommended too much delay, advising the operation never to be done, till the natural separation of the mortified parts had considerably advanced. Mr. Sharp was a surgeon of immense experience, and his au- thority carries with it the greatest weight. But perhaps he was too zealous in his opposition to a practice, the peril of which he had so often be- held. When the mortification has ceased spread- ing, there is no occasion for further delay. We now obtain, just as certainly, all the benefits of the operation, and get rid of a mass of putridity, the exhalations from which poison the atmosphere which the patient breathes, and are highly detri- mental to his health. Nay, according to the re- ports of writers, patients in these circumstances may-actually fall victims to the absorption of the putrid matter which is suffered to remain too long. However, this danger would not be so considera- ble as that which would arise from too precipitate an operation ; and it is better to defer amputation a little more than is ab olutely requisite, than run any risk of doing the operation before it is cer- tain, that the parts have lost their tendency to gangrene. In the article Mortification, we have noticed particular cases of gangrene, where, according to the experience of M. Larrey, the surgeon is not to wait for the line of separation being formed, but have recourse to the immediate performance ol amputation. The experience of Mr. Lawrence tends also to confirm the propriety of such prac- tice. (See Meaicu-Chir. Truiu. vol. 6. p. 156, 6jr.) In an example, where a large part of the arm was deeply affected with gangrene from external violence, and the disorder was yet making rapid progress, I once recommended the performance of amputation at the shoulder joint. On the whole, this instance was favourable to the prac- tice ; for, though the patient died at the end of a fortnight, probably he would not have lived twenty-four hours, had the operation not been done; nor was the stump attacked with mortifi- cation, a circumstance worthy of attention, be- cause it is a danger particularly insisted upon by . opponents ol amputation, under the preceding circumstances; and, had it not been for a large abscess, which formed in the back, as was sup- posed, from a violent blow received in the fall, which produced the original injury, there were well-grounded hopes of recovery. The patient, here spoken of, was attended by Dr. Blicke. There is likewise a species of gangrene, which is pointed out by Mr. Guthrie, as requiring early amputation. “ A soldier (says he) shall receive a flesh-wound from a musket ball in the middle of the thigh, which passed through the limb ap- parently, on a superficial inspection, without in- juring the main artery; or it shall pass close be- hind the femur, where the artery turns to the back part of the bone; or it may go through the middle of the bone, from behind forwards, be- tween the condyles of the femur into the knee- joint, and the patient shall wa.k to the surgeon with little assistance, be superficially dressed, and, in many cases, considered slightly wounded; yet, the femoral artery, and vein of the whole of these cases, and, indeed, in many others, shall be wounded, or cut across, and the local inflamma- tion be so slight as to obtain little attention. On the third, or fourth day, the patient shews his toes discoloured, and complains of pain and cold- ness in the limb below the wound, the constitu- tion begins to sympathize with the injury, and the surgeon probably thinks the case extraordi- nary. Perhaps, he suspects the real state of the injury; but is surprised that a wound of the fe- moral, or popliteal artery, with so little attendant injury, could cause mortification, &c. He is anxious to do something; but, mortification, or at least gangrene having commenced, he must, according to general rule, await the formation of the line of separation. The temperature of the leg, a little above the gangrene, is good, perhaps higher than natural; he hopes it will not extend farther, and it probably does remain stationary for a little time. At last, the parts originally affected, the toes, become sphacelated, and gan- grene quickly spreads up the leg as far as the wounded artery, by which time the patient dies.” For the purpose of preventing such a disaster, where the artery, or artery and vein have been divided, Mr. Guthrie recommends the perform- ance of amputation, as soon as the gangrene is perceived to extend beyond the toes; and the swelling and slight attendant inflammation, which is marked more by the tumefaction, than the redness of the part, lias passed higher up, than the ankle. (See Gullirie on Gunshot Wounds, ]i. 6'0-Sl.) 5. White-swellings. Scrofulous joints, with diseased bones, and distempered ligaments, and cartilages, is another case, in which amputation may become absolutely necessary. As Mr. Pott remarks, there is one circumstance attending this complaint, often ren- dering it particularly unpleasant, which is, that the subjects are most frequently young children, so as to be incapable of determining for themselves,' which inflicts a very distressing task on their nearest relations. All the efforts of physic and surgery often prove absolutely ineffectual, not only to cure, but even to retard the disease in question. Notwithstanding many cases admit'of cure, there arc numerous others which do not so. The disease often begins in the very inmost re- cesses of the cellular texture ol the heads ol the