ULCERS. 107 7 contact, and makes its appearance in the form of a boil. This is converted into an ulcer, which discharges a fetid fluid, by which the sur- rounding skin is excoriated, and the ulceration is extended over a large surface. The pain is' the most severe, and the discharge greatest, in hot weather. The parts first diseased heal, while others are becoming ulcerated, and the disease is always rendered worse, by spirituous liquors, salt provisions, and catching cold. Sir E Home remarks, that the disease in the skin, produced by the effects of very irritable buboes, in constitutions broken down by mer- cury, is attended with ulceration of a more vio- lent, deep, and painful kind, than the foregoing distemper. The progress of this disorder is, in other respects, very similar to that of the leprous eruption. Although the ringworm only occurs in the form of an ulcer in warm climates, a mild species of the affection takes place in summer-time in this country. It seems to be infectious; though it often occurs without infection. It commences with an efflorescence, which is attended with very trivial swelling, and spreads from a central point. The circumference of the efflorescence becomes raised into a welt, while the rest assumes a scurfy appearance. The welt becomes covered with a scab, which falls off, and leaves an ulce- rated ring, in general, not more than a quarter of an' inch wide. The outer margin of this ring continues to ulcerate, while the inner one heals, so that the circle becomes larger and larger. The discharge consists of a thin, acrid fluid, which seems to have a great share in making the dis- ease spread. For all the three preceding diseases, a solution of the argentum nitratum is strongly recom- mended by Sir E. Home. 5. Ulcers, which yield to Arsenic. The sores, which come under the definition of noli me tangere, or lupus, derive great bene- fit from this powerful remedy. Sir E. Home observes, that they are nearly allied to cancer, differing from it in not contaminating the neigh- bouring parts by absorption, and only spreading by immediate contact. From some cases, which fell under Sir E. Home’s observation, he discovered, that arsenic was not only efficacious as an external, but also as an internal remedy. I shall not unnecessarily enlarge upon this subject in the present place, as the reader may refer to the articles Arsenic, Cancer, Lupus, Hospital Gangrene, Ac. for additional information, relative to the uses of this mineral in the practice of surgery. Sir E. Home is an advocate for its employ- ment, both internally and externally, for ulcers of untoward appearance on the legs. The fun- gated ulcer is particularly pointed out by this gentleman as being benefited by arsenic. This ulcer occurs on the calf of the leg, and on the sole of the foot. From its surface, a fungus shoots out, which is entirely different from com- mon granulations. The new formed substance is radiated in its structure, the bottom of the ulcer being tire central point, and the external surface, which is continually increasing, the cir- cumference. The substance of this fungus is very tender, and readily bleeds. The first stage of the disease sometimes has the appearance of a serophulous affection of the metatarsal bones; but, the parts seem more enlarged, and, when the skin ulcerates, a fungus shoots out, and be- trays the nature of the case. One species of the fungated ulcer is capable of contaminating the lymphatic glands; the other is not so. The first is represented by Sir E. Home as being incurable by arsenic, or any oilier known medicine. The second yields to this remedy. Sir E. Home uses a saturated solution, made by boil- ing white arsenic in water, for several hours, in a sand heat. He gives from three to ten drops internally; and, for outward use, dilutes a dram with two pints of water, making it afterwards gradually stronger and stronger, till it is of double strength. The application may either be made in the form of a poultice, or of lint dipped in the lotion. , The best and safest preparation of arsenic, both for internal and external use, is the kali arsenicatum. The mode of employing it may be learnt by turning to the articles Arsenic, Cancer, Potassa, Lupus, &c. G. Ulcers attended \with Varicose Veins. A certain kind of ulcer is very apt to occur on the inside of the leg, and is equally difficult to cure, and liable to break out again. It has the look of a mild, indolent sore; but, the branches and trunk of the vena saphena are en- larged, and this varix of the veins keeps the ulcer from healing. The sore is seldom deep, usually spreads along the surface, and has an oval shape, the ends of which are vertically situated. There is a pain affecting the limb rather deeply, extend- ing up in the course of the veins, and exasperated by keeping the leg a long while in an erect pos- ture. This is a kind of ulcer, which derives immense benefil from a tight roller, applied from the toes to the knee, although the direct operation of the pressure of the bandage on the sore is itself pro- ductive of no particular good. Sir E. Home found, however, that many patients could not bear to wear laced stockings, or tight bandages, and that others received no relief from them. Hence, this gentleman was led to consider what else could be done for the cure of the varicose state of the veins. He re- presents, that, in consequence of the size of the vena saphena, and its numberless convolutions, the return of blood from the smaller branches is so impeded, as to retard the circulation in the smaller arteries, and to interfere with their action in forming healthy granulations. The coats, and valves of the veins also become thickened, so that the latter parts (the valves) do not do their office of supporting the weight of the column of blood. These reflections induced Sir E. Home to think, that some benefit might be obtained by taking off a part of the pressure of this column of blood, by making a ligature round the vena saphena, where this vessel passes over the knee- joint. Thus the cavity of the vein at this part would be obliterated, and a kind of artificial valve formed. This gentleman recommended the following way of performing the operation : “ As the veins