513 GAS The circumstances, making the practice of sew- in>r up a wounded intestine proper, are so rare, that l)u Vernev, who was the most eminent surgeon in the French army a great many years durfn the wars, and fashion of duelling, declared, that he had never had a single opportunity of practising gastroraphe, according to the former acceptation ot tiiat word. Gastroraphe, or merely sewing up a wound of the parietes of the abdomen, may be done, as Mr. Sharp explains, with the common interrupted suture, (see Suture) or with the quilled one, which is better, as follows: A ligature, capable of splitting into two, has a needle attached to each end of it. The lip of the wound is to be pierced, from within outward, about an inch from its edge. The other needle is to be passed in the same way through the op- posite lip. Then the two needles are to be cut off. As many such sutures must be made, as the • extent of the wound may require. The sides of the wound are next to be brought together, and the ligatures tied, not in a bow, in the way of the interrupted suture, because the con- tinual action of the abdominal muscles might make •.he ligatures cut their way through the parts. On die contrary, it is better to divide each end of the igatures into two portions, and to tie these over piece of bougie laid along the line at which the gatures emerge from the flesh. This is to be lone to all the ligatures on one side first. Then C* | be wound being closed, another piece of bougie ; to be placed along the other lip of the wound, ! nd the opposite ligatures tied over it, with suf- I cient tightness, to keep the sides of the wound 1 contact. This suture is certainly preferable to le interrupted one, because a great deal of its t ressure is made on the two pieces of bougie, and | f course it is less likely to cut its way out. Its peration is to be assisted with compresses laid ver each side of the wound) and the uniting mdage. Every thing, that puts the abdominal mscles into action, drags the suture, irritates the ound, and creates a risk of the threads cutting leir way through the part, in which they are in- oduced; consequently, it must be avoided. In rder to prevent, as much as possible, the exertion the muscles, the bowels should be kept open ith clysters. Saline draughts with opium are ost likely to stop the vomiting, sometimes tendant on wounds of the abdomen, and pro- ; icing very injurious effects. In about a week, the sutures may generally be I moved, and sticking plaster alone employed. > to what more relates to these particular cases, ' must refer to Wounds of the Abdomen. It is generally allowed, that sutures are violent tans, to which we should only resort, when it impossible to keep the lips of a wound in con- II ’t by the observance of a proper posture, and t aid of a methodical bandage. M. Pibrac be- ves such circumstances exceedingly uncommon, d in his excellent production, in the third volume the Memoirs of thclloyal Academy of Sur- ry, relative to the abuse of sutures, cases are ated, which fully prove, that wounds of the Iv readily unite by means of a suitable posture a proper bandage, without having recourse to “troraphe. These, however, are less decisive convincing, (if possible to be so) than the ro- oms of the Cfesarean operation, the extensive und of which has oftentimes been healed by GLA these simple means, after the failure of sutures. It is not only possible to dispense with gastro- raphe in the treatment of wounds of the abdo- men, it has even been manifested, that this opera- tion has sometimes occasioned very bad sym- ptoms. Under certain circumstances, however, it may be essentially necessary to practise gastroraphe. For instance, were a large wound to be made across the parietes of the abdomen, a suture might become indispensably requisite to prevent a protrusion of the bowels. Yet, even in this case, the sutures should be as few in number as possible. A bandage of the eighteen-tailed kind, might prove very useful in a longitudinal wound of the abdomen, and do away all occasion for gastro- raphe. (See Sutures.) We shall conclude this article with a fact, perhaps, more curious, than instructive, related by M. Bordier, of Pondicherry, in the Journal de Medecinc, vol. 26, 538. An Indian soldier, angry with his wife, killed her, and attempted to destroy himself by giving himself a wound with a broad hind of dagger in the abdomen, so as to cause a protrusion of the bowels. A doctor of the country, being sent for, dissected be- tween the muscles and skin, and introduced a thin • piece of lead, which kept up the bowels. The ' wound soon healed up, the lead having produced no inconvenience. The man was afterwards hung, and M. Bordier, when the body was opened, assured himself more particularly of the fact. Indeed, numerous cases prove, that lean may lodge in the living body, without occasion- ing the inconvenience, which results from the presence of almost any other kind of extraneous body. See Le Dran, Operations de Chirnrgie. Sharp’s Treatise mi the Operations of Surgery. L’Encyl rlnpedie Methodique, Partie Chirurgicale, art. Gastroraphe ■ Sabatier, lecine Operutoire, T. 1. G ASTIIOTOMIA. (from y«r*g, the belly, and to cut.) The operation of opening the abdomen and uterus. The Caesarean opera- tion. GLAUCOMA (from yXrtvxor-, bluish green,) is now defined by modern surgeons to be a greenish, or grey opacity of the vitreous humor, attended with the loss, or a considerable impairment of sight. [Weller on. Diseases of the Lye, Transl. by Monteulli, Vol. 2, p. 27.1 Pro- fessor Beer considers the subjects of glaucoma and the cataracta viridis, or glaucomatosa, to- gether in the same chapter. He observes, that these diseases occur rather frequently^ not only as true effects of inflammation of the eye, but, sometimes quite unpreceded by this affection. Although glaucoma may continue for a long time as the only disorder, without the crystalline lens being changed in the slightest degree, yet Beer has never seen the case reversed, and the lens become altered as it does in glaucoma first, and the vitroous humor afterwards. In what this author describes as gouty ophtlmlmy, glaucoma is said to come on with the following symptoms* The iris is not observed to expand, but rather to become contracted ; the pupil is not equally di- lated, but extends more towards the canthi, the iris at length becoming scarcely perceptible to- wards each angle of the eye, especially the outer one, and the pupil of course assuming something