dislocation. 379 lower end of the humerus, and from the little sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The usual cause of the accident is a pronation of the fore-arm, carried with great violence beyond the natural limits. In a dislocation of the head of the radius back- wards, the fore-arm is bent, and the hand fixed in the state of pronation. Supination can neither be performed by the action of the muscles, nor by external force; and every attempt to execute this movement produces a considerable increase of pain. The hand and fingers are moderately J bent, and the upper head of the radius may be I observed forming a considerable projection be- I ■ hind the lesser head of the humerus. In the case, which was mentioned to me by my friend j Mr. Lawrence, the head of the radius lay upon the I outside of the external condyle. The reduction is to be accomplished by ex- 4 tending the fore-arm, and endeavouring to bring 4 it into the supine posture, at the same time, that the surgeon tries to press with his thumb the head of the radius forwards, towards the lesser tubercle of the humerus, and into the little sig- : moid cavity of the ulna agfain. Success is in- j dicated by the patient being now able to perform the supine motion of the hand, and to bend and I extend the elbow with freedom. For the purpose of preventing a return of the ( displacement, and giving nature an opportunity of repairing the torn ligaments, measures must i be taken to hinder the pronation of the hand, i Boyer recommends with this view a roller, com- presses, and a sling; but, it appears to me, that : a splint, extending nearly to the extremity of the r fingers, and laid along the inside of the fore-arm, with a pad of sufficient thickness to keep the hand duly supine, would be right, in addition to ! i the sling, roller, &c. DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER END OF THE RADIUS. The causes are, 1. Violent action of the pro- ( nator and supinator muscles. Thus, Desault has published the case of a laundress, who dis- located the lower end of the ulna backwards from the radius, by a powerful pronation of her hand ) in twisting a wet sheet. (Boytr, Trait 6 des Mai. j| i Chi,. T. 4, j>. 24.9.) 2. External force, moving the radius violently I nto a state of pronation, and rupturing the back i part of the capsule; or into a state of supination, i r md breaking its fore part. Hence, there are two kinds of dislocation; ,ne of the radius forward; the other, backward. ■ 1 JTbe first is very frequent; the second is much p ess so. The latter case never presented itself W o Desault, but once, in the dead body of a man, rj vho had both his arms dislocated, and of whose [j tccident no particulars could be learnt. The R lead of the ulna was found placed in front of the j]| 'gmoid cavity of the radius, and in contact with he os pisiforme, to which it was connected by a : -apsular ligament. ( Boyer, Truite dcs Mai. Clur. L 4, p. 249.) The other case in which the ulna was thrown jiukwards, occurred very often. Doubtless, this ' t-‘r';n<ce is owing to all the principal motions of lie radius being in the prone direction. I nts observation is confirmed by the fact, that ic lower joint of the radius, in the dead subject, may be dislocated as easily by a supine, as a prone motion of this bone. The symptoms of a luxation of the lower end of the radius from the ulna forward are; constant pronation of the fore-arm ; an inability to perform supination, and great pain on this being attempted; an unusual projection at the back of the joint, in consequence of the pro- trusion of the little head of the ulna through the capsule ; the position of the radius is more for- ward, than natural; constant adduction of the tiiumb, which is almost always extended; a half- bent state of the lbre-arm, and very often of the fingers, which posture cannot be changed, without considerable pain. More or less swelling around the joint. This sometimes comes on imme- diately, but always afterwards, if the reduction re- main unaccomplished. 'The condition of the joint may thus be obscured, and the accident mistaken for a sprain. The serious consequence of this mistake is, that no attempt at reduction is made, and the articular surfaces having time to con- tract adhesions', the disorder is rendered irre- mediable, and the prone and supine movements of the hand, are for ever lost, and the action of the fingers seriously impaired. A luxation of the radius backward is cha- racterized by symptoms, the reverse of those above mer.ntioned. They are, a violent supina- tion of the limb; inability to put it prone ; pain on making the attempt; a tumor in front of the fore-arm formed by the bead of the ulna ; a pro- jection backward of the large head of the radius; and abduction of the thumb. When the dislocation is forward, an assistant is to take hold of the elbow, and raise the arm a little from the body; while another is to support the hand and fingers. The surgeon is to take hold of the end of the fore-arm with both his hands; one applied to the inside, the other to the outside, in such a manner, that the two thumbs meet each other in front of the limb, between the ulna and radius, while the fingers are applied to the back of the wrist. He is then to endeavour to separate the two bones from each other, pushing the radius backward and outward, while the ulna is held in its proper place. At the same time, the assistant, holding the hand, should try to bring it into a state of supination, and consequently the radius, which is its support. Thus pushed, in the direction opposite that of the dislocation, by two powers, the radius is moved outward, and the ulna re- turns into the opening of the capsule, and into the sigmoid cavity. If chance should present a dislocation of the lower head of the radius backward, or, in other words, of the lower head of the ulna forwards, the same kind of proceeding, executed in the op- posite direction, would serve to accomplish the reduction. (See (Emres Chiv. dc Desault, 7. I.) The history of such a case is recorded by Boyer. (Mai. Clur. 1\ 4, p. 253.) DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST. The carpal bones may be luxated from the lower ends of the radius and ulna forwards, back- wards, inwards, or outwards. The first two cases, especially that backwards, are the most frequent. The dislocation backwards is rendered easy by the direction of the convex articular surfaces of