220 BLADDER, bladder, as the urine sOmdtim'eS begins to flow Richerand's through the penis, within a few hours after the bladder is emptied. Perhaps, this event may be the most frequent* when the introduction of the catheter has been prevented by a stricture in the urethra. If the wound becomes closed, before the power of expelling the urine is regained, re- course must be had to a repetition of the opera- tion, which gives very little trouble to the pa- tient : neither is he much incommoded by suf- fering the cannula to remain two or three days in the bladder. This is sometimes necessary, and seldom improper.” ( Hey's Practical Obser- vations in Surgery, p. 430—431, edit. 2.) In the foregoing columns, I have briefly ad- verted to the proposal of cutting into the urethra behind the obstruction, instead of puncturing the bladder. Mr. Grainger, of Birmingham, a few years ago also recommended cutting into the urethra, immediately in front of the prostate, and relieving the bladder by the introduction of a female catheter through the gland, or, (if that could not be accomplished) by the division of its substance with a scalpel. (Med. and Surg. Re- nt arks, Sfc. 8 vo. Loixl. 1815.) Women seldom stand in need of paracen- tesis of the bladder; but, when the operation is necessary in them, it is more safely and easily performed from the vagina, than in any other way. If it should be proper to leave the cannula introduced, this must be long enough to allow its orifice to be situated on the outside of the labia, where it must be fixed with a T band- age. Consult particularly Sharp on the Operations, Chap. 15, and his Critical Enquiry. Amltr. Ber trandi, Trattato delle Operazioni di Chirurginf accresciuto di note, §c. dui Chirurghi G. A. Pen- chitnati e G. Brugnone, 8vo. Torino, 1802. Ber- trandiwas an approver of the puncture from the rectum : so was le Blanc. Operat. de Chir. T. 1. Melanges de Chirurgie,par Pouteau, Lyon, 17 60, p. 500. L’ Encyclopddie Methodique, Partie Chirurgicale; arti Paracentese de la Bessie. Schmucker, Chir. Wahrnehinungev, 2 Th. No. 39: puncture from the rectum. Sabatier’s Mede- cine Operatoire, Tom. 2. Mursinna, Journ, fur die Chirurgie, fyc. 4, p. 46, 67. Cases if punc- ture from the rectum, and above the pubes. In illustration of the operation of puncturing the bladder, Camper’s plates are the best: See his TJemonst. Anal. Pathol. Lib. 2. la this work, the danger of letting the end of ant/ long instru- ment, when introduced, press against the inside of the bladder, is proved by a case, in which that organ was perforated by the extremity of a cathe- ter, p. 11- Klohss, Diss. de Paracentesi Vesicev Urinaria: per intestinum rectum, Jen, 1791. A. Bonn, Anal. Chir. Bemerkungen Ul-er die Harn- verhaltung, und den Bluscnstich. Leip . 1794, prefers the puncture above the pubes. J. Howship, Pract. Obs. on Diseases of the Urinary Organs, p. 214, 8 vo. Land. 1816, thinks the operation from the rectum superior to the other methods. Sir /■'. Home in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 2. Abcrnethy’S Surgical Observations, 1801. John Belt's Principles oj Surgery, Fill. 2. (Euvres Chir. de Desault par Bichat, T. 3, p. 315, &;c. TP. Schmid uber die Krankhcilen dcr Harnblase, cjr. 8to. I Hat, 1806. Nosogr. Ciiir. T. 3, edit. 4. Hey' Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 430, edit, 2. Parisian Chirurgical Journal, Pol. 2. p. 156 and p. 265. S. T. Simmering uber die schncl\ und lungsam todUichen Krunklieiten dcr If urn A blase, S;c. Frankfurt, 1809. The author is mi advocate for the puncture above the pubes, it.pte 4 ference to that through the rectum, which he thinks right only in one case, viz. when the bladder is fa contracted, that it does not rise out of the lesser* cavity of the pelvis, und the fluctuation of thei urine can be felt in the rectum, but not above the pubes. In this opinion, he is joined by Langtn- beck. (Bibliothek, B. p. 719.) Callum's Systema Chirurgice Hodierme, T. 2, p. 277, S'r- Cliirurgische Versuche von B. G. Schieger, B. I. Uber den Blasenstich Oberlialb der Schuoss- J,lge, p. 211, (J-c. 8vu. Nurnberg. 1811, gives the preference to the puncture above the pubes. Ed- ward Grainger, Med. and Surg. Remarks, S;c. with Obs. on the different modes of opening the bladder in retention of urine, fgc. 8vo. Ix,nd. 1815. C. Bell, Surgical Obs: 8vo. Part 5, Loud. 1818. Bladder, Tumor extirpated from. Mr. War- ner has recorded a case, in which an excrescence, growing from the inside of a young woman’s bladder, was successfully removed. The patient, on the 24th of June, 1747, strained herseif in endeavouring to lift a great weight, and she was immediately seized with a pain in the small of her back, and n total retention of urine. In April, 1750, she applied to Mr. Warner, who found, upon inquiry, that she had never been able, from the moment of the accident, to void a' drop of urine without the assistance of the cathe- ter; that she was in continual pain, and had lately been much weakened, by having several times lost considerable quantities of blood, occa- sioned by the force made use of in introducing the instrument into the bladder. Mr. Warner, upon examining the parts, with his forefinger, which he had great difficulty in intro- ducing into themeatusurinarius, discovered acon- siderable tumor, which seemed to be of a fleshy substance, and took its rise from the lower part of the bladder, near its neck. When the patient strained to make water, and the bladder was full, the excrescence protruded a little way out of the meatus urinarius; but, upon ceasing to strain, it presently returned. A purgative having been given the day before the operation, and the rectum emptied by means of an.emollient clyster, Mr. Warner directed the patient to strain, so as to make the swelling pro- ject. He then hindered it from returning into the bladder by passing a ligature through it, and endeavoured to draw it further out. The latter object was found impracticable, on account of the size of the tumor. Seeing this, Mr. Warner dilated the meatus urinarius on the right side, by cutting it upwards, about half way towards the neck of the bladder, when, by pulling the swelling forwards, be was enabled to tie its base, which was very large, with a ligature. For three days after the operation, a good deal of pain was felt in the abdomen. On the sixth day, the tumor dropped offi From the first day, the urine came away without assistance, and the patient got quite well. The tumor