136 ANEURISM. the plan of tying the artery with two ligatures, and dividing it in the interspace, it may appear superfluous to notice a modification of this prac- tice, intended as a security .against the slipping of the ligature. But, as the proposal has had the approbation of some men of eminence, and I heard of an instance, in which it was practised not long ago, the subject may still be worthy of notice. Mr. A. Cooper has published a case of popli- teal aneurism, in which the femoral artery had been tied with two ligatures, as firmly as could be done without risk of cutting it through. “ But (says this gentleman) as I was proceeding to dress the wound, I saw a stream of blood issuing from the artery, and when the blood was sponged away, one of the ligatures was found detached from the vessel. Soon after the other was also forced off, and thus the divided femoral artery was left with- out a ligature, and unless immediate assistance had been afforded him, the patient must have perished under hemorrhage.” The same kind of accident has occurred in Mr. Cline’s practice. These events naturally induced Mr. A. Cooper to reflect on the means, which were to be em- ployed to obviate them, and the first which sug- gested itself was to include a larger portion of the artery between the two ligatures. But this plan was given up when it was recollected, that many branches of arteries must be divided, and that it was a mode of security which could only apply to particular cases of aneurism, since in some situations of that disease, there is scarcely any length of vessel between the tumour and principal anastomosing branch of the artery. Mr. A. Cooper thinks, that a plan of greater security, and more general application, consists in conveying the ligatures, by means of two blunt needles, under the artery, an inch asunder, and close to the coats of the vessel, excluding the vein and nerve, but passing the threads through the cellular membrane surrounding the artery. When these are tied, and the artery is divided between them, the ligatures will be pre- vented from slipping from the artery by the cel- lular membrane through which they are passed. Mr. A. Cooper next relates a case of aneurism after bleeding, which he cured by this way of operating. “ But although this plan, as to the event, answered my expectations, yet a different mode of securing the ligature, suggested to me by my young friend Mr. H. Cline, struck me so for- cibly for its simplicity and security, that I felt immediately disposed to adopt it.” Mr. A. Cooper put the new plan to the test of experiment in operating for a popliteal aneu- rism on Henry Figg, aged 29. “ An incision being made on the middle of the inner part of the thigh, and the femoral artery exposed, the artery was separated from the vein and nerve, and all the surrounding parts, to the extent of an inch, an eye-probe, armed with a double ligature, having a curved needle at each end, was conveyed under the artery, and the probe cut away. The ligature nearest the groin was first tied; the other was separated an inch from the first and also tied. Then the needles were passed through the coats of the artery, close to the ligatures between them, and the ends of each thread were again tied over the knots, made in fastening the first circular application of the ligatures. Thus, a barrier was formed, beyond which the ligature could not pass.” I he event of this operation was success- ful. (Mc/l. and Phys. Jourfl. Vol. 8.) Upon the foregoing proposal a few observa- tions are necessary; and these I shall offer with due deference to the eminent surgeon, whose fame alone has attached undue importance to the inno- vation. It appears to have been mentioned by Dionis, and to have been noticed by some subsequent writers. In the 13th chapter, on hemorrhage, in Richter’s Anj'nngsgrunde der Wundarzntynumt, we read the following passage. “ The artery, when drawn out, is to be twice surrounded with the common ligature. This is to be tied in a knot, and when the artery is large, one end of the ligature is to be passed, by means of a needle, through the vessel before the knot, then both ends are to be tied together, and left hanging out of the wound, as in the ordinary way.” Ed. 3. 1^99. What power can possibly force the ligature, when tied with due tightness, off the extremity of the vessel? No action of the heart, or artery it- self, no turgid state of this vessel, could do so. If a piece of string were tied round any tube for the purpose of preventing a fluid from escaping from its mouth, provided the string were applied with due tightness, and the knot in such a manner as not to yield, no fluid could possibly escape, however great the propelling power might be, provided the string and structure of the tube did not break. And, if a ligature were applied so slackly as to slip, who can doubt, that hemorrhage would still follow, even though the ligature were carried through the end of the ves- sel, and tied in the foregoing way? Where ligatures have slipped off, very soon after being applied, I conclude, that the arteries either could not have been tied with sufficient tightness, perhaps through an unfounded fear of the ligature cutting its way completely through all the coats of an artery, or else that the knot, or noose became slack, from causes, which will be understood by considering, what is said on this matter in the article Hemorrhage. The inner coats of the artery, we know, from the experiments of Dr. Jones, ought to be cut through when the artery is properly tied, because the circumstance is always useful in promoting the effusion of lymph, within the vessel, and the process of ob- literation by the adhesive inflammation. The preceding method is so contrary to Hie grand principle of always avoiding the detach- ment of the arteiy from its surrounding con- nexions, andis so inconsistent with the wise maxim of doing the operation with as little disturbance of the vessel as possible, that it is not surprising that it should have met with only a small number of followers. In fact, it is not only liable to every objection which can be urged against the double ligature and division of the artery, as formerly proposed by Celsus, and a few of the moderns, but, on account of its greater tediousness, more extensive separation and destruction of the vessel, and other reasons, is still less worthy of imitation. With respect to ligatures of reserve, the inter- position of agaric, cork, and other hard sub- stances between the knot and the artery, these