ANEURISM. 189 encouraging. In one of these instances, a part of films, a single small ligature, applied with as little the wound appeared to have united by the first disturbance and detachment if the artery as passible, intention, but matter afterwards formed, and it will be more, rarely followed by secondary he- vas a considerable time before the nicer healed, morrhage, abscesses, sinuses, &c. than any other The ligature was never seen to come away; but known method. Thus, in the several cases, re- from the circumstance of the suppuration, Mr. ported by Mr. Norman, the single ligature was Norman apprehends, that it must have been never followed by any of those inconveniences, voided. In a second example, the attempt to which, he justly thinks, will be rarer after this procure a permanent adhesion of the parts over practice, than any other, “ if the artery be not the ligature did not succeed ; a long and trouble- removed from its situation, or more detached, same suppuration ensued, and the wound was not than the ligature separates it.” (See Med. Chir. healed till the latter end of April, though the Trans. VoL 10. p. 123.) operation was done on the 7th of March. (Nor- Before entering into the consideration of par- tnan. in Med. Chir. Tran. Col. 10. v. 120—121.) ticular aneurisms, I wish to mention a few other As catgut, however, was employed for the liga- tures in these two operations, I do not know, that it is fair to consider the method exactly as that re- commended by my friend Mr. Lawrence, who par- ticularly directs very small ligatures of dentist’s silk to be used. But, besides the different material em- ployed, we are left uninformed of the thickness of the catgut; and, in this respect also there would probably be no greater similarity between the liga- tures of these gentlemen, than there is in regard to the substances, of which/'such ligatures were made. In favour of catgut, as a ligature, when the ends of it are to be cut off’, a case published by Mr. A. Cooper deserves particular notice. The wound was found completely united on the fourth day after the operation, notwithstanding the patient was eighty years of age. The catgut, previously to its application, was softened in warm water. The recovery was complete; a fact, strongly proving the propriety of not rejecting an operation on account of age, if no other ob- jections exist. (See Surgical Essays, part 1, p. 126.) Alluding, however, to silk ligatures, if we take into the account the little ulcerations, suppura- tions, and hard knots, which occurred even after their use in this manner, I fear, that, though these complaints might be attended with no severe in- convenience, they will deter many surgeons from adopting the innovation ; unless it can be proved that these inconveniences, slightas they were, were counterbalanced by the quicker healing of the in- cision, or some other decided benefit. As a mode, attended with the least possible risk of being fol- lowed by secondary hemorrhage, however, I con- sider it inferior to no practice, which has yet been suggested ; nor do I know of any serious objec- tions to it in any point of view, provided, exactly such ligatures are used as Mr. Lawrence recom- mends. In cases of aneurism, a single small ligature, composed of dentist’s silk, inkle, or twine, is now usually preferred by the majority of the best sur- geons in England ; but, as the right qualities of ligatures are elsewhere considered, (See He- morrhage and Ligature)I need not here dwell upon the subject. It is not meant to assert, that the use of a single ligature is never followed by se- condary hemorrhage ; for this would be untrue. The accident I believe will sometimes happen a1 ter this, or any other mode, under certain cir- cumstances, and in unfavourable subjects. A fact of this kind we find recorded, which happened in 'be practice of a truly eminent and experienced surgeon ; (See A. Burns on Diseases of the Heart, V- 23t);) but, from the inquiries, which I have Jnade, it appears to me proved, that, cater is pa- circumstances, worthy the attention of every practical surgeon. The first is the partial entrance of blood into the aneurismal sac, after the artery has been tied at some distance from the tumour. This fact was first parlieularly pointed out, and its reasons explained by Sir E. Home, who pub- lished three examples of its occurrence. ^See Tran, of a Sue. f or the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vnl. 1, p. 173, Spool. 2,p. 239.) But, the circumstance had never, I believe, been considered with due attention, until Mr. Hodg- son made it one of the subjects of his reflections in his valuable treatise. “ When an artery is tied close to an aneuris- mal sac, the ingress of blood into the latter is in most instances prevented; the coagulum, which it contains, is absorbed, and the membranes of which the sac is composed, gradually contract, until its cavity is permanently obliterated. But, when the artery is tied at a distance from the disease, the ingress of blood into the latter is not altogether prevented; for, the anastomosing branches, which open into the trunk, below the seat of the ligature, convey a stream, which passes through the aneurism. The impulse of this current, however, is so trifling, that the en- largement of the sac not only ceases, but the de- position of coagulum in it increases, in conse- quence of the languid state of the circulation. The coagulum accumulates, until the cavity of the sac, and the moutli of the artery leading into it, are obliterated,’’ Sec. (See Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries, p. 266.) This fact, which is of great importance, both in a practical and pathological point of view, is proved, (says this gentleman,) 1st, by the occa- sional recurrence of pulsation in the tumor after the operation ; 2dly, by cases in which the cavity of the sac has been exposed, and hemorrhage has been the consequence; and Sdly, by dissec- tion, in which it has been found, that the cavity of the aneurism, as well as that of the arterv, from which it originated, was pervious, from the part which was obliterated by the direct operation of the ligature. For a detail of the facts relative to this inter- esting point, the reader is referred to Mr. Hodgson’s valuable publication. (P. 267, et SC,].) Some very uncommon instances arc recorded, in which the return or continuance of pulsation in the tumor is said to have prevented the cure; the aneurismal sac having begun to enlarge again. The two cases of this kind, howtver. whicli hap- pened in the practice of Pott and Guerin, {Iran, of a Soe. for the. Imp. of Med. fiChii'• Lnou. to . I. f. 172, Sf Journ oe Ut Sac. de Santt', An. 3, p.