592 HEMORRHAGE. the ligature, which, when properly applied, cuts through its internal and middle coats, keeps their cut surfaces in contact, and aflords them an op- portunity of uniting by the adhesive inflamma- tion, as other cut surfaces do. The immediate stoppage of the bleeding is merely the incipient and temporary part of ^ what the ligature has to accomplish ; it has also to effect the adhesion of the internal and middle coats of the artery, which being the thing, on which the permanent sup- pression of hemorrhage depends, is the most im- portant. 'Ihe size and form of the ligature, whether completely flat, or irregular, have not been, as Dr. Jones remarks, sufficiently attended to ; nor is the degree of force employed in tying the artery, often considered. Some surgeons, wishing to guard against the ligature’s slipping off, tie it with very considerable force; while others, apprehensive lest they should cut through the artery, or occasion too early a separation of the ligature, draw it only sufficiently tight to prevent the escape of any blood. A broad flat ligature is not likely to make such a wound in the internal and middle coats of the artery, as is most favourable to adhesion, because it is scarcely possible to tie it smoothly round the vessel, which is very likely to be thrown into folds or puckered by it, and consequently, to have an irregular bruised wound made in its middle and internal coats. By covering also a considerable space of the external coat, it may destroy the very vessels which pass on it in their way to the cut surfaces of the inner coats, and thus render them incapable of inflaming. Even supposing the wound to unite, still such a ligature may cover that part of the external coat, which is directly over the newly-united part, and, consequently, as soon as it has produced ulceration through the external coat, it will cause the same effect on the newly- united parts, and, of course, secondary hemor- rhage. (Jones, )i. 168.) When a ligature is of an irregular form, it is apt to cut through the internal and middle coats of an artery more completely at some parts than others; but these coats must be perfectly cut through, in order to produce an effusion of lymph from the inside of the vessel, which seems to ad- here most securely at its cut surfaces. Also, when the ligature is not applied with sufficient tightness, the inner coats of the artery will not be properly cut through. Dr. Jones thinks, that the ligature being sometimes put on so as to deviate from a circle, has a tendency to produce secondary hemorrhage. Dr. Jones conceives that ligatures are best, when they are round, and very firm, and, he adds, that though a very slight force is necessary to cut through the internal and middle coats of an artery, it is better to tie the vessel more tightly than is necessary merely to cut through its inner coats, because the cut surfaces will thus be more certainly kept in contact; the separation of the ligature expedited; and the danger of ulceration spreading to the newly-cicatrized part diminished. The external coat will never ulcerate through, be- fore the inner ones have adhered, i he limb, how- ever, should be kept in a perfectly quiet state. I am sincerely glad to find, that so accurate an observer as Dr. Jones, has refuted the idea, that ligatures occasionally slip off the vessels, in consequence of the violent impulse of the blood. In fact, the blood does not continue to be im- pelled against the extremity of the artery with the same impetuosity with which it circulated through tlie vessel before it was tied. The blood is immediately determined into the collateral branches, nor is there any pulsation for some way above the ligature. Dr Jones much more rationally imputes this occasional accident, either to the clumsiness of the ligature, which prevents its lying compactly and securely round the artery; or to its not having been applied with sufficient tightness; or to its having that very^insecure hold of the ves- sel, which the deviation from the circular appli- cation must occasion. (P. 17,-i.) Dr. Jones is of opinion, that in cases of aneu- rism, in which the artery has only been tied with one ligature, and left undivided, and in which se- condary hemorrhage has arisen, that this has most probably been owing, either to1 a diseased state of the artery; to various contrivances for compressing a large portion of the vessel; to having a loose ligature above the one, which is tied; or, lastly, to not tying the artery suf- ficiently tight to cut through the internal and middle coats, so as to fit them for adhesion, but, so as to cause a gradual ulceration through them, and, of course, bring on hemorrhage, which re- turns with greater violence, as the ulceration ad- vances. (P. 176.) These reflections must also obviously explain, why Scarpa’s practice of using a largish ligature, with the intervention of a piece of cloth between the cord and the vessel, for the express purpose of hindering the inner coats of the vessel from being divided, must be objectionable, because it may be set down as an axiom in ail opertaions, where largearteries are to be tied, that the quantity of extraneous substances in the wound, and par- ticularly of such as are in contact with the artery, should be diminished as much as possible. And, though I may be disposed to go so far with Scarpa as to believe, that the interposition of a piece of cork, or wood is worse, than that of a cylinder of linen, I cannot accede to the pro- position, that the latter is free from objection, because it rather acts as a cushion, than as a body likely to bruise. (See Mem. On the Ligature of Arteries, p. 44.) With the differences in the constitutions of man and animals, I know that the results of experiments on the latter can never be looked upon as a positive proof of what would happen from the same experiments performed on the human subject. The stronger, or weaker im- pulse of the heart, the more or less eoagulable nature of the blood, the greater or lesser degree of general and local irritability ; the more or less quick tendency to adhesive inflammation, and ulceration; are circumstances, which must make in different animals the same experiments lead to opposite results. The question, whether a small round ligature, or a larger flat one, with a piece of linen between it and the vessel, be best, must therefore after all be decided, not by Dr. Jones’s experiments, nor those of Scarpa, or Mislei, but by the practice of surgery on the human body; and that the principles, defended in this Dic- tionary, are on the whole to be preferred, can hardly be questioned by any man, who knows how much less frequent secondary hemorrhage