HYDROPHOBIA. ot drinking any liquids, from their creating a painful convulsion of the pharynx, occasioned most commonly by the bite of a mad animal. Others have suggested the following definition, as more complete: melancholy, dread of cold air, of any thing sliming, and particularly of water - often arising from the bite of a mad ani- mal. (Purr’s Med. Diet.) However, the lat- ter definition is, perhaps, equally objectionable, because there is not invariably a dread of shin- ing bodies. (See Dr. Powell's Case, p. 8.) While some authors represent it as a nervous disorder, others, amongst whom is Boerhaave, consider it os one of an inflammatory nature. In many systems of surgery, hydrophobia is treated of with poisoned wounds, of one species of which it is strictly the effect. With regard to the symptoms of hydrophobia, they are generally tardy in making their appear- ance, a considerable, but a very variable space of time usually elapsing between their commence- ment and the receipt of the bite. Out of a table of 131 cases, none of the patients became ill before the eleventh day after the bite, and only three before the eighteenth. It is pretended by Pouteau, that one patient was bit by a dog in the morning, and was attacked with hydrophobia at three o’clock in the afternoon. But, as this ac- count was communicated to the author a lone time after the occurrence, and not by a medical man, it deserves little confidence. Another case, adverted to by Mead, is deprived of all its import- ance by the same consideration. These exam- ples, as well as another reported by Astruc, in which the patient is said to have had hydrophobia in less than three days, after being wounded on the temples, can at most be regarded only as specimens of symptomatic hydrophobia. [Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 74.) There ap- pears to be no determinate period, at which the disorder makes its attack after the bite ; but, it is calculated, that the symptoms most frequently commence between the 30th and 40th day, and that after this time the chances of escape increase. Of 15 patients, whose cases Trolliet was ac- quainted with, seven were attacked between the 14th and 30th days; five between the 30th and 40th ; two a little beyond the latter period; and one after 14 weeks. In May, 17&4, 17 per- sons were bit by a rabid wolf near Brive, of whom 10 were afterwards attacked with hydrophobia; viz. one on the 15th day after the bite; one on the 18th; one on the "l 9th; one on the 28th; one on the 30th; one oln the 33d; one on the 35th; one on the 44th; one on the 52d; and the last on the 68th day. [Hist, de la Soc. Roy ale de Med. p. 209.) Fothergill and Mosely mention cases, in which the disease began four months after the bite; and M. Matthey, of Geneva, details an instance, in which the interval was 117 days. [Journ. Gen. T. 54, p. 275.) Haguenot knew of a case, in which the interval between the bite and the commencement of the illness was five months. [Portal, p. 18.3.) Dr. J. Vaughan mentions an interval of nine months; Mead, of 11 ; Galen, Bauhln, and Boissi re, of a year; Nourse, of 1.9 months; and R. Lentilius, of three years. Dr. Bardsley, of Manchester, has recorded a case, in which the most careful inquiries tended to prove, that the patient had never suffered the least injury from any animal, except the bite, in- flicted twelve years previously to the commence- ment of hydrophobia, by a dog apparently mad. [Mem. of Liter, and Phil. Society of Man- chester, Vol. 4, Part ‘2,p. 431.) A merchant of Montpellier, is also stated to have been attacked with hydrophobia ten years after the bite of a rabid dog, which also bit the patient's brother, who died hydrophobic on the 40th day after the accident. (See Diet, des j Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 75.) Here may also be found references to cases, in which the inter- I val is alleged to have been 18, 20, and even I 30 years. It is certainly difficult to attach l| any credit to these very late periods of attack. || Dr. J. Hunter considers 17 months, and Dr. I Hamilton 19, the longest interval, deserving ii belief. [On Hydrophobia, Vol. 1, p. 113.) I Exposure to the heat of the sun, violent emo- I tions of the mind, and fear, are believed to have i considerable influence in accelerating the com- I mencement of the symptoms. That mental,!: alarm is also of itself sometimes capable of bring-j ing on a simple hydrophobia, totally uncon-j nected with infection, is incontestable; a case, j which has not always been duly discriminated* 1 A most convincing proof of this fact is recorded! bv Barbantini, in the Italian Journ. of PhysicJ g Chemistry, &c. for January and February, ; 1817. A young man was bit by a dog, whicljn he fancied was mad, and on the 6th day h« evinced symptoms of hydrophobia, of which hag was nearly dying, when the dog, which had bhj > him, was shewn to him perfectly well, and thij g intelligence tranquillized him so effectually, tha,f*- he was quite well four days afterwards; Mo John Hunter is said to have mentioned in hi 1 Lectures a very similar case, in which he believa. : the patient would certainly have died, if the doj|| which inflicted the bite, had not been found, ami shewn to the patient perfectly well. (See Jonrxl Gen. de Med. T. 41,7?. 215.) It is to the e:• fects of terror, that several modern writers ai! disposed to refer the instances of very late attaclj of hydrophobic symptoms after the period, whej. the patients were bitten; though, unless the ill tellects be changed in the mean time by oth,| causes, it is difficult to conceive, why the alarj should not have, the greatest effect earlier, whi the impression of the danger is undiminished 1 «■ time. The idea, that the symptoms begin soonl p after the bite of a wolf, than that of a deg, is n jt ■ adopted by a writer, who has taken great pains jr. • collect information on the present interestiip disorder. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T.4\\ p. 77.) Cullen has divided the disease into two stagt k < the hydrophobia simplex and rahiosa ; or melancholy and raving stages of some ot j writers. But, as the early stage is frequen j | unattended with anything, like melancholy, ill; best merely to adopt the distinction of the J> I I i and second stages; one comprehending the | fects of the disorder previously to the occurrej |1 of a dread, or decided aversion of liquids; other, the subsequent changes. The woundjf ► (' treated by common methods, usually heals| [ at first in a favourable manner. At some inf. r > finite period, and occasionally, long after j v i* bitten part seems quite well, a slight pain be» I i.-. to be felt in it, or the neighbouring parts, ij