1175 VERTEBRAE, DISEASE OF. cause: tho generally received opinion, therefore, hat all the attending symptoms are derived from he curvature, considered abstractedly, is by no neans founded in truth, and may be productive it f very erroneous conduct. That when two or more vertebrae are affected, arming a large curve, however perfect the suc- cess of the treatment may be with regard to the restoration of health, and limbs, yet the curvature ill and must remain, in consequence of the nion of the bones with each other. That the useless slate of the limbs is by no leans a consequence of the altered figure of the , pine, or of the disposition of the bones with re- ard to each other, but merely of the caries: of i lis truth there needs no other proof, than what ; lay be drawn from the cure of a large and ex- pulsive curvature, in which three or more ver- ibbrae were concerned: in this the deformity 11 ways remains unaltered and unalterable, not- ithstanding the patient recovers both health and mbs. Pott contends, that a morbid stale of the parts, rrevious to deformity, caries, or curve, must be flowed. All the general complaints of persons, Ulicted with this disorder, he says, will, upon ■.ireful inquiry, be found to have preceded any egree of deformity, to have increased as the urve became apparent, and to have decreased as ip means used for relief took place; the pain id tightness about the stomach, the indigestion, he want of appetite, the disturbed sleep, &c. c. gradually disappear, and the marks of re- i irning health become, observable, before the mbs recover the smallest degree of their power ff moving. On the other hand, is admitted to be as true, lat when from extent, or degree, or inveteracy f-the caries, the issues are found to be unequal > the wished-for effect, the general complaints :ceive no amendment; but increase until the latient sinks under them. If all this be true, says Mr. Pott, and it be > mnd, that the issues are capable of effecting a • erfect cure, even after a caries has taken place, i ad that to a considerable degree, is it not rea- mable to conclude, that the same means, made se of in due time, might prove a preventive? 1 Besides the forms of disease of the spine, treated fin this article, the observations of Mr. Wilson rove, that the distemper may sometimes begin ithin the theca vertebralis, and thence extend i the bones. He also demonstrated, at the Col- pge of Surgeons, serophulous tumors in the .final marrow. Such diseases would create a >ss of power in the parts below them, without uy curvature of the spine. (Lectures on the 'kelcton, 8{C. p. 397.) In France, the same indication is followed as nit on which Mr. Pott lays stress, viz., to en- eavour to arrest the disease of the spine by leans applied in the vicinity of the morbid arts. But, instead of employing caustic issues, ie moxa is used, and sometimes repeated cup- ing near the affected bones; both which means ’ere particularly recommended by Desault. Another practice, which yet has partisans, uough it was strongly disapproved of by Pott, ’ ll|al of supporting the spine with machinery. Vrhaps, the latter author may have carried his •bjections to this method beyond all reason, and with tho exception of Dr. Harrison (see Lond. Med. and Physical Journ. Nov. 1820,) I be- lieve no modern practitioner now ever advises it on the supposition of there being any disloca- • tion ; an error, which formerly prevailed. As Mr. Brodie observes, certainly no machines ought ever to be employed for the purpose of elongating the spine and correcting the defor- mity : but, if they be used simply to take off the weight of the head, chest, and upper extremities, from the diseased part of the spine, they may sometimes be of service. The late Sir Janies Earle had a very favourable opinion of their utility. I believe, with Mr. Brodie, that they ought never in the first instance to supersede the constant maintenance of the horizontal position; but, that they may be advantageous, when cir- cumstances make it desirable, that the patient begin to sit up a part of the day. (0« Dis- eases of the Joint, p. 2J1.) From Mr. Pott’s own account, it will he seen, that he never pretended that issues, kept open in the vicinity of the disease, were infallible; and a late eminent surgeon has actually referred the good, which Pott thought accrued from them, to the long observance of the horizontal posture. Mr. Baynton, the gentleman to whom I allude, also mentions, that M. David is the only writer who has suggested that rest would affect the cure of diseases of the spine. On this point, however, Mr. Baynton was entirely mistaken, as, about eighteen years ago, Loder wrote some remarks, particularly directed to the object of recommend- ing quietude in the present disease, as the best means of promoting anchylosis. (See Med. Chir. Bcohach tungen, p. 251 ; 8 vo. Weimar, 1704.) Now, although I fully concur in the pro- priety of keeping the patient as quiet as possible in the recumbent position, inasmuch as motion must be hurtful to the diseased part of the spine, it does not follow, that because this admission is made, that issues ^should be rejected, and that rest must do every thing. In one part of Mr. Baynton’s reasoning, an error prevails, which I shall here notice, as it seems greatly to have in- fluenced his opinions; and, as far as 1 know, it has not been remarked by the critical examiners of that gentleman’s book. The mistake is in supposing, that the process, by which the dis- eased part of the spine is to be restored and united, should be conducted exactly on the same principles as the union of bones, free from dis- ease. In fact, there is an additional indication, which is to stop the progress of the disease, for which purpose, experience proves, that issues, aided by rest, are the means affording the best chances of success. I have attended several children myself who, from the effect of issues, recovered the’ use of their lower extremities, even though they could not be kept constantly at rest. I must also give my testimony to the truth' of Mr. Brodie’s statement, that many pa- tients are benefited almost immediately the issues are made, or uniformly find themselves better after each application of the caustic. (On Dis- eases of Joints, p. 282.) In some cases, how- ever, caustic issues fail to afford relief; and when they arc of no use, rest in the horizontal pos- ture, below ground, I believe. ijiust soon be the patient’s doom. Whether the occasional failure