530 GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. but, pieces of the clothes, &c. may still be lodged in the part* Care must betaken, however, not to confound with these cases others, in which the plu- rality of openings has been made by different balls. As a modern writer has accurately explained : “ It is no uncommon thing for a ball in striking against the sharp edge of a bone, to be split into two pieces, each of which takes a different di- rection. Sometimes, it happens, that one of the pieces remains in the place, which it struck, while the other continues its course through the body. Of a ball, split by the edge of the patella, I have known one half pass through at the mo- ment of the injury, and the other remain in the joint for months, without its presence there being suspected. In the same manner, I have known a ball divided by striking against the spine of the scapula, and one portion of it pass directly through the chest, from the point of impulse, while the other moved along the integuments, till it reached the elbow-joint. But, the most frequent examples of the division of bullets, which we had occasion to see, were those which were produced by balls striking against the spherical surface of the cranium. It sometimes happens, that one portion of the ball enters the cranium, while the other either remains without, or passes over its external surface. Not unfre- quently, in injuries of the cranium, the balls are lodged between its two tables, in some instances much flattened, and altered in their shape, and, in other instances, without their form being changed.” From these facts, it must be evi- dent, that even when a gun-shot wound has two orifices, the surgeon cannot be certain, that the bullet has not been divided, and that no portion is lodged, unless the entire ball itself happen to be found. (See Thomson s Reports of Obs. in Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 37, &c.) As the ends of the torn vessels are contused and compressed, gun-shot wounds have less pro- pensity to bleed at first seriously, than most other wounds, unless vessels of importance happen to be injured. There may even be little hemorrhage at first, though a considerable artery be so hurt, that it afterwards sloughs, and a dangerous, or fatal bleeding arises. Thus, (as I have already mentioned) in one of my own patients, who had received a musket ball through the ham, the popliteal artery gave way about ten days after the injury, and compelled me to take up the femoral artery; and, in the Elizabeth Hospital at Brussels, amongst the patients under the care of my friend Mr. Collier and myself, about a week after the battle of Waterloo, the cases of hemorrhage, on the loosening of the sloughs, were tolerably numerous, not at all coinciding with a recent calculation, that the proportion of such examples, requiring the ligature of arteries, is only three or four in 1COO. (Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds, p. 8, Ed. 2.) In Holland, the truth of Mr. Hunter’s observation upon this point ap- peared to me to be equally confirmed. It has long been known, that a limb may be tom, or shot off, even near to the trunk of the body, and hardly any hemorrhage arise. We had numerous proofs of this fact after the battle «f Waterloo. I had under my care a man of the rifle brigade, whose arm was shattered to pieces as high as the shoulder, yet there was no hemor- rhage. I amputated the thigh of a Dutch soldier* whose leg had been completely shot off by a can- non-ball; but there was no hemorrhage before the operation. At Merksam, in 1814, I saw a case, in which the greater part of the clavicle, scapula, and many adjacent parts had been carried away by a cannon-ball; and yet no bleeding of consequence occurred. Sometimes, after these violent injuries, the large arteries do not bleed in amputation. “ We saw a man, (says Dr. Thomson) whose leg had been shot off by a cannon-ball; in amputating his limb above the knee, the arteries of the thigh were not perceived to bleed; nor did any of them afterwards require to be tied. A case, similar to this, also presented itself, in which the arm had been shot away close to the shoulder-joint.” Sometimes the contusion, produced by a can- non-ball, or the passage of a bullet in the vicinity of a large artery, seems to cause a laceration of the inner coat of the vessel, and a subsequent oblitera- tion ofits cavi ty by the effusion ofcoagulable lymph. Facts, in proof of this statement, are recorded by Dr. Thomson. (See Reports of Observ. in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 34—35.) Angular uneven bodies, such as pieces of iron, cut lead, &c. produce far more dangerous wounds, than round even bodies, like leaden bullets. Wounds occasioned by a small shot, are frequently more perilous, than others pro- duced by larger balls; because their track is so narrow, that it cannot be traced, nor conse- quently the extraneous body itself extracted. Such a shot often injures a viscus, when there is not the smallest external symptom of the occur- rence. Sometimes a great part of the danger, also, arises from the number of the shots which have entered. TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. The first thing in the treatment of a gun-shot wound in one of the extremities, is to determine, whether it is most advisable to amputate the limb immediately, or to undertake the cure of the wound. When a bone, especially at a joint, is very much shattered; when the fleshy parts, particularly the great blood-vessels and nerves, are lacerated; when the whole limb has suffered a violent concussion, and is cold and senseless; there is no hope of preserving it. In this case, it is the surgeon’s duty to amputate at once, and not to delay till inflammation, fever, and a tend- ency to mortification come on. But, besides this violent degree of injury-, in which the pro- priety of amputation is obvious, there are several lower degrees, in which it is often a difficult thing to decide whether the operation is necessary or not. Here the surgeon must look not only to the injury, but also to the patient’s constitution, and even to external circumstances, such as the possibility or impossibility of procuring good ac- commodation, rest, attendance, and pure air. But it is impossible to determine the necessity of amputation by general rules. In every in- dividual case, the surgeon must consider maturely the particular circumstances, before he ventures to decide. The grounds against the operation are; the pain which it causes at a period when the whole system is disordered by a terrible injury; the privation of a limb; and frequent examples, in