AMPU' Garengeot’s patient died on the third day after the operation; and hemorrhage was allowed to have had a considerable share in producing death. The multiplicity of machines described by Verduin, La Faye, &c. had no other end, but that of keeping the flap near the orifices of the vessels, so as to compress and close them. Garen- <reot reflected that, to obtain a just degree of this compression was very difficult, as the most con- siderable vessels were situated between the two bones, and in general, when cut, withdrew them- selves. Hence, he determined in future to em- ploy ligatures. With these views, twelve years after the fore- going case, Garengeot performed a flap amputa- tion of the arm, preserving two flaps, according to the method communicated to the Academy bv Ravaton. The brachial artery was tied, and the patient got well, without any exfoliations. Garengeot made a third trial of this operation on a soldier dangerously wounded in the right foot by the bursting of a bomb, which fractured the interior part of the two bones of the leg, and several of the foot: the patient got well in twenty- seven days. In this operation, one single flap was made. Garengeot was fearful, however, that the quick union might create some difficulty of withdrawing the ligatures, and he therefore took a means of hindering adhesion where they were situated; but, of this objectionable plan, I shall not speak. He rightly preferred dressing and bandaging the stump to the use of the compressing ma- chines invented by Verduin and La Faye; and his choice of a straight knife, instead of a crooked one, was equally judicious. The preceding case dictated a truth, which will last as long as surgery itself, viz. that it is ad- vantageous to apply the ligatures in such manner as to embrace no more, than the vessel, so that they may fall of the sooner, and the parts more quickly unite. (M. de Garengeot, in Memoires de l’Acad, de Chirurgie, Tom. 5, in 12mo.) At one time, a frequent objection, urged against the foregoing methods, was, that, when the fresh-cut flap was immediately laid over the stump, inflammation and abscesses were apt to ensue. Hence, in 1765, Sylvester 0‘Halloran, a Surgeon at Limerick, was led to make the ex- periment of deferring laying down the flap till the end of the first eight, or twelve days after the operation, when it was conjectured that the risk of inflammation and abscesses might be abated. 1 he tenor of Mr. O'Halloran’s book i* apparently corroborated by the facts brought forward. Here we see one of the grand points, insisted upon by our worthy countryman James ^ onge, viz. the chance of an immediate union of the wound from laying down the flap without delay, suddenly given up, and because the wound could not always be healed without suppuration, it was determined that it never should do so. However, it is consolatory to find, that 0‘IIal- loran’s suggestion only now exists in the history, and not in the practice of surgery. Alexander Monro, senior, was a great opposer of certain methods, which originated amongst the French i surgeons, and, in particular, he disapproved of [ the tourniquet: he secured the vessels with needles and ligatures; and was the inventor of a FATION. 65 bandage, which has been extensively approved of under the name of Monro’s roller. ( Medical Essays of Edinl>. Vol. 4, p. 257.) Bromfield, like Le Dran, restricted amputa- tion to a few cases; and he did not acknowledge its necessity, as a matter of course, in every case of gangrene, much less in every instance of white swelling, or caries. From a passage, which I have cited from Dr. Rees’s Cyclopedia, it would seem that the tenaculum was known to the ancients-; yet, according to general opi- nion, (and I cannot affirm that it is incorrect from any passage in my recollection) Bromfield is allowed to be the first surgeon who em- ployed this very useful instrument. (Chir. Cases and Qhs. Vol. 1, p. 41, 8 vo. Loud. 1773.) About the year 1742, the removal of thighs without bloodshed, was a subject a good deal broached. A single case, recorded by Schaarsch- mid, where a mortified thigh separated without hemorrhage, was the foundation of the scheme. The arteries were completely blocked up, and the parts insensible. (Haller, Diss. Chir. Vol. 5, p. 15.5.) A similar occurrence was related by Acrel (Chir. handels. p. 557;) and Lalouette professed himself a believer in the security from hemorrhage, on account of the vessels being filled with coagula, and approved therefore of letting dead parts be removed, or rather fall off, without bloodshed. * ( Haller, Diss. Chir. Vol. 5, p. 273.) Bagieu, an experienced French military sur- geon, in cases where the projecting bone of the stump was affected with necrosis, ventured to amputate a second time, and urged a variety of arguments in defence of the practice. (Mem. de l’Acad, de Chir. T. 2, p. 274.) He coincided with Le Dran and Bromfield, however, about the propriety of restricting amputation to few cases, and has related numerous examples of limbs being saved, which according to the doctrines then in vogue, ought to have been cut off. (Deux Letlres d'un Chir. de I’Armee, 12mo. Paris, 1750.) M. Louis, a French surgeon of extraordinary talents, introduced the plan of dividing the loose muscles first, and lastly those, which are closely connected with the bone. This eminent man took notice, that the muscles of the thigh became retracted in an unequal degree, after being divided. Those which are superficial, and ex- tend along the limb, more or less obliquely, without being attached to the bone, were drawn up with greater force, and in a greater degree, than others, which are deeply situated, in some measure, parallel to the axis of the femur, and, fixed to this bone throughout their whole length. The retraction begins the very instant, when the muscles are cut, and is not completed till a short time has elapsed. Hence, the effect should be promoted, and be as perfect as possible, before the bone is sawn. In the amputation of the thigh, M. Louis was always desirous of letting the muscles contract as far as they could, and, for this reason, lie was rather averse to using the tourniquet, as the circular pressure of this instrument rather counteracted what he wished to take place, and hence he at one time pre- ferred letting an assistant make pressure on the artery, though he subsequently expressed his