1210 WOUNDS. queunt, siquidem tunica villosa foraminula ob- struit,” &c. (.S’//". Chir. Hod. T. !, p. ~j04.) It was the circumstance of small punctures being unavailing, that led Desault and Ghopart to recommend the use of a large round needle, '•'• pour qua Vouverture ue suit point bouchee par les mucosites dout les intestines sont en- duits." But, they were also aware of the danger of employing such an instrument, since they give us directions how to proceed, in order to prevent extravasation and inflammation : “ On pre vicn- dra 1'epanehement das metiercs stercorales cn passant, avant dc redid, c lintcstin, unr. ausc do Jil dans la portion dc mcsenterc qui repond u la piqure pour la fixer contre les lords de la plate exteriaurc, ct Von comhattra par les rc- mtdes ge.ne.ranx Vinflammation que ext pi- qure pent attirsr." (Traite. dcs Maladies Chi- rurg. T. ‘2, p 135.) R-icherand is still an ad- vocate for puncturing the bowel, for which ope- ration he boldly recommends a small hydrocele trocar. (Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 336, cd. 4.) Mr. Travers, one of the latest and best writers upon this subject, most properly joins in the con- demnation of the plan of pricking the protruded bowels. “ Blancard and others protested against this practice, on the very sufficient ground of its inefficacy. La Faye very truly says, it is a use- less as well as dangerous practice; for the open- ings, made by a round needle, cannot give issue to the contained air.” Mr. Travers then cites two cases, shewing that even small stabs in a bowel, will not prevent its becoming distended with air. “ A man was brought to St. Thomas’s hos- pital. on Saturday, the 3'.’th of June last (1811), who had been slabbed in the direction of the epi- gastric artery, on the left side of the abdomen, by a case knife. He died in eighteen hours, ap- parently from the sudden and copious hemor- rhage, which had taken place within the belly. About half a yard of ileon was protruded. The gut was highly discoloured, and so much dis- tended, notwithstanding it was pierced in three places, that the wound of the integuments re- quired to be freely dilated, before it could be re turned. The apertures were m fact obliterated by the mucous coat ” “ It appeared upon the trial of Captain Su- therland Ann. Reg. June 180:1) for the murder of his cabin boy, that the intestines had been ex- tensively protruded through a wound near the left groin, and had lain exposed for four or five l,0Urs that the dirk had pierced through one fold of intestine, and entered another—that the wound of the intestine was half an inch long, that the reduction could not be accomplished until the parietal wound was dilated; and that the intestine was then returned, and the integu- ments sewed up ” (Travers on Injuries of the Intestines, p. 174, 176.) With respect to this last case however, I must observe, that it docs not satisfactorily prove what the author intends, namely, that the borcci ■was distended rvilh air, though there was a wound in it half an inch long, for, the evidence does- not inform us, that the difficulty of reduc- tion was owing to this cause. I have seen a very small portion of omentum protrude tlnough ,i -,ii onrlonvmirs to reduce it Mr. Travers, however, is more explicit and in- teresting ; and we are to infer from it, and the observations of Haller, Callisen, &c. that the punctures, made in an intestine, are not closed bv mucus, as Sabatier and Desault have asserted, but by the mucous coat itself. As the above expedient had been recommended by writers of some weight, I thought that the subject should not be passed over in silence, and without a caution to the reader, never to put any confidence in the method. The plan does not facilitate the business of the operator; there is not even this solitary reason in favour of the practice; and though it may have answered when large needles were used, and some patients, so treated, may have recovered, every person, who has the least knowledge of the animal economy, will easily comprehend, how even the smallest opening, made in parts, so irritable and prone to inflammation, as the bowels, must be attended with greater danger, than would result from en- larging a wound of the skin and muscles. Be- sides, the air may frequently be pressed out of the intestine in a safer way, as I have already described. A wound of the abdomen, attended with one of the most considerable protrusions of the vis- cera, that I have ever read of, is recorded by Mr. Hague, surgeon at Ripon : “ August 3'*th 1808 (says this gentleman), I went to Norton Mills, about four miles from hence, to see John Brown, set. 1 > years, who had received a wound in the abdomen by a wool shears On my ar- rival, which was little more than an hour after the accident, I found the poor lad in a very dis- tressing situation ; thegrcrA arch q/khe stomach, and the whole of the intestinal canal, (duode- num excepted) contained within the abdomen, having protruded through the wound. The in- cision was on the left side of the body, com- mencin': at about two inches below the scrobicu- lus cordis, and extending in a straight line near four inches in length, distant from the navel two inches, and he was quite sensible, and had vo- mited so as to empty the stomach; very little blood was lost. I immediately proceeded very carefully to examine the protruded viscera, none of which vvere wounded, and reduced them as quickly as possible, beginning with the stomach, and following the regular course of the intestines, in the latter portion of which, I distinctly felt feces, of rather firm consistence. He complained of some pain, during the reduction, though not much, and expressed great relief, when the parts were completely' returned. I now desired an assistant to lay the palm of his hand over the wound, and make some pressure upon it; for, I found that, without this, the parts would soon have protruded again by the action of respiration, which was oppressed and laborious. I brought the sides of the wound together by five sutures, beginning from above downwards, and passed the needle on each side, quite through the inte- guments with the peritoneum, &c. The wound was also dressed with adhesive plaster, and co- vered with a bandage.” (Vide Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journ il, Vol 5, p- 129, $c.) This case is interesting; for, notwithstanding so unlimited a protrusion of the viscera, and the