744 JOINTS. related by Mr. Ford were, perhaps, the only ones throwing light upon this point. In one, there was a tea-spoonful of matter in the cavity of the hip joint, i he head of the thigh-bone was a little inflamed, the capsular ligament a little thickened, and the ligamentum teres united in its natural way to the acetabulum. The cartilage lining the cotyloid cavity was eroded in one place, with a small aperture, through which a probe might be passed, underneath the cartilage, into the internal surface of the os pubis on one side, and qn the other, into the os ischii; the opposite, or external part of the os innominatum shewing more appearance of disease, than the cotyloid cavity. In the other instance, the dis- ease was more advanced. These examples are important, inasmuch as they prove that what is commonly called the disease of the hip-joint, primarily affects the cartilages, ligaments, and bones, and not the surrounding soft parts as De Haen, and some others, would lead one to be- lieve. As the disorder advances, the portions of the os ischium, os ilium, and os pubis, composing the acetabulum, together with the investing carti- lage, and synovial gland, are destroyed. The cartilage covering the head of the os femoris, the ligamentum teres, and capsule of the joint, suffer the same fate, and caries frequently affects not only the adjacent parts of the ossa innominata, but also the head and neck of the thigh-bone. The bones of the pelvis, however, are always more diseased than the thigh-bone, a fact, which displays the absurdity of ever thinking of ampu- tation in these cases. Mr. Ford observes, “ In every case of disease of the hip-joint, which has terminated fatally, I have remarked, that the os innominatum has been affected by the caries in a more extensive degree, than the thigh-bone it- self.” (Observations on the Disease of the Hip-joint, p. 107.) ^Sometimes, however, the head and neck of the thigh-bone are annihilated, as well as the acetabulum. Mr. Brodie has had opportunities of dissect- ing some diseased hip-joints both in the incipient and advanced stage of the complaint. From his observations, it appears; 1st. That the disease commences with ulceration of the cartilages, ge- nerally that of the acetabulum first, and that of the femur afterwards. 2. That the ulceration extends to the bones, which become carious; the head of the femur diminishing in size, and the acetabulum becoming deeper and wider. 3. That an abscess forms in the joint, which after some time makes its way by ulceration, through the synovial membrane and capsular ligament, into the thigh and nates, or even through the bottom of the acetabulum into the pelvis. Mr. A. Cooper shewed Mr. Brodie two specimens, in which the abscess had burst into the rectum. -1. In consequence of the abscess, the synovial mem- brane and capsular ligament become inflamed and thickened. The muscles are altered in structure; sinuses are formed in various parts, and, at last, all the soft parts are blended to- gether in one confused mass, resembling the parictes of an ordinary abscess. (Brodie, in Meilico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 246, 247.) Such are the beginning and progress of the ordinary disease of the hip-joint; but, it is an- mitted by Mr. Brodie, that there arc other scro- phulous eases, in which the mischief begins in the cancellous structure of the bones, and also other instances, which consist in chronic inflam- mation and ■ abscesses of the soft parts in the neighbourhood of the hip. (Op. cit. Vol. 6, p. 326.) External violence; lying down on the damp ground in summer time ; and all kinds of expo- sure to damp and cold; are the causes to which the disease has sometimes been referred. No doubt, serophula has, frequently, some concern in its origin; but, often, no rational cause is as- signable for the complaint. Treatment of the Disease of the Hip-joint.— The writings of Hippocrates, Celsus, Cselius Aurelianus, Ac. prove, that the ancients treated the present disease much in the same way, as it is treated by the moderns. Forming an eschar, and keeping the sore open; topical bleeding; cupping ; fomenting the part, &c. were all pro- ceedings adopted in the earliest periods of sur- gery. Drs. Charlton, Oliver, and Falconer, have extolled Bath water, as a most efficacious application to diseased hip-joints, previous to the suppurative stage. However, had not their ac- counts been exaggerated, all patients of this kind would long ago have flocked to Bath, and the surgeons in other places would never have had further occasion to adopt a more painful mode of treatment. The plan pursued at Bath, is to put the patient in a warm bath, two or three tiroes a week, for fifteen or twenty-five minutes. In the first stage of coxalgia, the late Dr. Albers, however, had a very high opinion of warm bathing, fomentations with decoctions of herbs, and of bathing in mineral waters and the sea. But, though he commenced the treat- ment with the frequent use of the warm bath, and continued the plan a long while, it is to be remarked, that he also combined with it an issue. After the patient had been in the bath a period not exceeding half an hour, he was taken out, and his whole body well rubbed with flannel. It appears to me, that one objection to this practice must be the considerable disturbance occasioned by moving the patient in this manner every morning: for, if it be true, that most of these diseases commence in the cartilages of the joint, all motion of the limb must be particularly in- jurious. In the early period of the disease, entire rest, the application of fomentations, and the employ- ment of topical bleeding, particularly cupping, are highly proper. Such practice, also, is inva- riably judicious, whenever the case is attended with symptoms of acute inflammation. When the fomentations are not applied, the lotio aquae lithargyri acetati may be used. This method of treatment ought never to be employed, unless manifest signs of active in- flammation be present. When im such state exists, this plan can only be regarded as prevent- ing the adoption of a more efficacious one, and, therefore, censurable. “ Where the cartilages of the hip are ulcerated (says Mr. Brodie), the patient should, in the first instance, be confined to a couch, if not to his bed; and if the disease is far advanced, the limb should be supported by pillows properly dis- posed, so as to favour the production of an an-