H40 VENEREAL DISEASE. according to Mr. Carmichael. This Inst has, in some cases, occupied the glans; in some, the prepuce; while the sores of another description have been on the same part close beside it, or on another part at a distance. Three of these cases I particularly selected for examination and public demonstration, at the Castle Hospital; in one, the Hunterian chancre was on the glans, and a sore, without any hardness on the prepuce; in another, it was on the prepuce, and a simple ulcer on the glans; in the third, a most perfect spe- cimen of Hunterian chancre occupied the inter- nal prepuce, close to the corona glandis; and, at about half an inch from it, nearer the fraenum, but farther from the glans, was an elevated ulcer. In all these cases, the Hunterian chancre healed (without mercury) several days before the others. “ Soldiers (says Dr. Hennen) are gregarious in their amours, and we have frequently several men at the same time in hospital, infected by the same woman, with whom they have had con- nexion in very rapid succession; some of them have had one kind of sore, some another, and some loth. (Principles of Military Surgery, Ed. ‘2, p- 525.) But, if these facts, which agree with my own observations, be rather adverse to the theory of a plurality of venereal poisons (See Carmichael’s Essays on the Venereal Dis- ease, $c.), they still leave difficulties, which can- not be entirely solved by reference to peculiari- ties of constitution, and different states of the health, because no explanation, on this principle, would account for a man having, at the same time, upon the penis, two or three different kinds of ulcers, apparently excited by one cause. Neither will any difference of texture afford the needed explanation, though the utmost latitude be given to the doctrine, that the appearance and progress of sores are considerably modified by the nature of the parts. It is only necessary to consider the above passage from Dr. Hennen’s work, to perceNe, that the particular texture, whether pre- puce, skin, glans, or corona glandis, does not always communicate to sores one invariable cha- racter, even when they arise, as the evidence would dispose one to suppose, as nearly as pos- sible under the same circumstances, and from the same source of infection. But, though in such examples, no data, with which I am acquainted, lead to any safe inference, respecting the exact cause of the diversity of effect, produced in different persons, and even on dif- ferent parts of the same individual, by one kind of virus, not a doubt can be entertained, that gene- rally climate and constitution have vast influence over the venereal disease. In all warm countries, the disorder, as far as regards the natives, and those who have been long settled there, is not only much milder in its symptoms, but much more easy of cure. In the West Indies, the Brazils, &c. it has for a long period of time been very commonly cured by means of sarsaparilla, guaiacum, mezereon, &c. without a grain of mercury. It is alleged, however, that this mildness of syphilitic complaints, and their facility of cure, in warm climates, do not extend to strangers, recently arrived there, who are said even to suffer more from the virulence of ,i;r-s>nrr/v tlmn ♦Virtir nntivn rlimnfp. In vages of the venereal disease amongst the British soldiers, and its comparatively milder phenomena amongst the inhabitants of the country, were par- ticularly noticed. “ In the British army, (says Mr. I'ergusson) it is probable, that more men have sustained the most melancholy of all mu- tilations, during the four years that it has been in Portugal, through this disease, than the re- gisters of all the hospitals in England could pro- duce for the last century ; while venereal ulcer- ation has not only been more intractable to the operation of mercury, than under similar cir- cumstances at home; but the constitution, while strongly under the influence of the remedy, has ; ]1 become affected with the secondary symptoms in } a proportion that could not have been expected. With the natives, on the contrary, the disease is very mild; curable, for the most part, by topical ! ik treatment alone, or wearing itself out when re- [ ceived into the constitution, after running a cer- : tain course, not always a very destructive one, ft without the use of any adequate mercurial re- medy, &e. The bulk of the people, and of all ; P the military at the hospitals, even though a general i i order has been given out, enjoining the use of mercury, cure themselves, or get cured, by other means. I have now been upwards of two years at the head of their hospital department, and I f; can declare, that it never occurred to me, amongst r all the venereal patients, whom in that time I have seen pass through the hospitals, to meet a single one under the influence of mercury, ex- n cepting those cases, wherein I myself have per- sonall}’’ superintended its administration. They go out cured by topical remedies alone: and I U: have lived long enough amongst them to ascer- 6:: tain, that their return to hospital under such cir- jt cumstances for secondary symptoms, is far from ;lk being an universal, or even a frequent occur- jfr rence.” (Fergusson, in Med. and Chir. Traits. BL: Vol. 4, p. 1—2.) The inference, at which Mr. Fergusson arrives, ;B is, that, in Portugal, the disease is exhausted, and It. has lost much of its virulence, in the same man- ir ner as the natural small pox, unresisted by in- k ■ oculation appears to have changed, in the same It. country, into a very mild disease, which does f well under any mode of treatment. “ Yet (says Mr. Fergusson) I have no doubt, that were this mild disease, or the atfr mildest that was ever produced from the im- proved inoculation of England, communicated to a tribe of Indians, or to a plantation of ne- tj. groes, or any other class of people, who had never before known the small pox, it would de-» - solate with all the fury of pestilence, destroying! wherever it could find victims, and never ceasing! ; until it had destroyed the whole.” And, on thejt 1. same principles, Mr. Fergusson attempts to ex-4 plain the severe effects of the inoculation of thaff exhausted syphilitic virus of Portugal into theM) constitution of the British, or other stranger,!! and the impossibility of curing the disease by thdfV same treatment, which answers for the nativeM* themselves. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 7,10.. On the other hand, Mr. Guthrie does not admit*U 0 that the disease, which the troops contracted iiJM Portugal was more violent, than the same conv|W plaint in England; or rather he admits the faetta] but n-ivps a different exnlnnntion of it from thair J