788 LITHOTOMY. the broail part of the blade becomes a director to the knife; and rather than lacerate, I have often repeated this enlargement of the inner wound two or three times.” (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11, p. 411.) The great advantage of the knife over the gorget, and even the neces- sity of employing it for adapting the size of the opening in the bladder to the magnitude of the stone, or its fragments, are most convincingly exemplified in several cases recently put upon record. Thus Klein, with the aid of a common scalpel, extracted a calculus, which weighed twelve ounces, thirty grains ; and the patient re- covered. (Pract. Ansichten Bcdcutcndstcn Operational, II. 1.) In 1818, Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, operated with a knife, and extracted a calculus, which broke in the forceps, weighing fourteen ounces, two drachms, avoirdupoise, and the patient recovered. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11, p. 54, (|-c.) Mr. W. B. Dickenson, of Macclesfield, also succeeded with Mr. Gibson’s knife, in taking out of the bladder a calculus, the fragments of which weighed eight and a half ounces, and the patient was saved. (Vol. cit. p. 61.) And in the same volume may be seen other instances, in which immense calculi were removed from the bladder with various results, but particularly one which weighed sixteen ounces, and which Sir A. Cooper could not succeed in breaking : he was therefore obliged to enlarge the wound, first made with the gorget “ to the sacro-sciatic ligament,” when with the aid of a hook applied to the forepart of the stone behind the pubes, and the simultaneous assist- ance of the forceps, he succeeded with consider- able difficulty in removing this immense mass. The patient lived, however, only four hours after the operation. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11, i?.73.) 2. The arteria pudica profunda can never be injured, because the surgeon does not let the knife, or gorget, approach nearer to the ischium, than a point which is situated a little way from the tuberosity of that bone towards the anus ; and consequently the edge of the instrument cannot come into contact with the inside of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium where the great pudic artery is situated. 3. The rectum will not be wounded, because the direction of the axis of the incision, either downwards and outwards to the above-mentioned point, or from that point inwards and upwards, sufficiently removes the edge of the knife, or gorget, from the intestine. But, the rectum will be in still greater safety, if it be pressed down- ward with the fore-finger of the left hand in the wound, and the prudent custom of emptying it, by means of a clyster, a short time before the operation, be not omitted; for, no lithotomist should ever forget, that, when this bowel is con- siderably distended with feces, it rises up a little way on each side of the prostate gland. 4. As the seminal duct penetrates the lower part"of the substance of the prostate gland, in order to reach the urethra, and the knife, or other instrument, employed, divides the upper portion of the side of that gland inward and up- ward, or outward and. downward, it is obvious, that the duct will not be in the least danger of being cut. The judicious Callisen is well aware of the advantages of making a smooth, even, direct in» cision into the bladder*; but, like Profcssoi Scarpa, he is averse to making a free cut through the neck of that viscus. Indeed, as we shall- presently notice, Scarpa does not sanction cutting any portion of the bladder at all. Every practitioner, who will take the trouble to look over the history of the lateral operation, will find, that the greater number of lithotomists, who have particularly distinguished themselves by their unparalleled success, as Frere Jacques, Che- selden, Cosme, Mr. Martineau, Dr. Souberbielle, &c. made a free incision into the bladder. This fact alone is enough to raise doubts of the goodness of the advice delivered upon this sub- ject by Callisen and Scarpa; especially, as nei- ther they, nor any other modern surgeon (with the exception, perhaps, of Pajola, whose indi- vidual skill is said by Langenbeek to make amends for the disadvantages of his method), can boast of having cut patients for the stone with a degree of success at all equal to that of the above-mentioned operators. The extraordinary success which characterised Cheselden’s practice we have already detailed. (Seep. 697.) The accounts, which we have, of the successful ope- rations done by Frere Jacques, and Cosme, are equally remarkable. Mr. Martineau, as I have noticed, has lost but two patients out of 84, on whom he has operated,, and this without making any selection, as he never rejected any one who was brought for ope- ration. His patients were always kept a week in the house before operating; and this precau- tion, with a regulated diet, and perhaps a dose or two of opening medicine, was the only prepara- tory treatment. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11 - p. 40.9.) During my stay at Paris, in 1815, I saw Dr. Souberbielle extract a stone of considerable size, on the plan of his well known ancestor. The incision was ample and direct, so that the calcu- lus was taken out with perfect ease. Now, as the operations of this professed lithotomist are very numerous, and he enjojrs the reputation cf scarcely ever losing a patient, are we not justified in inferring, that the advocates for a small open- ing are promulgating the worst advice which can be offered to the practitioner? My own ob- servations certainly tend to such a conclusion as will be presently explained. The tract recently published by Scarpa (Memoir on the Culling Gorget of Hawkins, c)r. irons, bp Briggs), has for its main objects the recommendation of a modification of Hawkins’s gorget, and the incul- cation of the propriety of making a small limited incision in the prostate gland, without cutting any part of the bladder. As sufficient room cannot thus be obtained for the extraction of even a stone of moderate size, he is an advocate for the gradual dilatation of the urethra and ori- fice of the bladder. He observes, that the lateral operation, though executed with the greatest precision, does not exempt the surgeon from di- st- Vulnus sit aequale, baud angulatum, conical figurce, apice vesieam respiciente, externa plaga ampla, et quatuor pollicum longitudine, unde eflluxus sanguinis, puns, lotii, arena?, facilitate. See Systema Chirurgiac Ilodiernae; Pars Pos- terior, p. 656, Ilafnix, 1800.