596 HEMORRHOIDS. flammation, leeches applied to the vicinity of the anus, and puncturing the dilated hemorrhoidal vessels, with a lancet, lor the purpose of taking away blood, and the application of cold lotions, are measures occasionally employed to procure ease. 1 he usefulness of leeches was parti- cularly noticed by Schmucker. (Vermischtc Chir. Schriften, B. 1, p. 107.) Petit preferred the lancet. When the number and size of hemorrhoids are so considerable, as materially to obstruct the discharge of the feces; when they are severely painful, and subject to profuse bleedings; when the patient is disabled from following his usual occupations; and when the above means afford insufficient relief, the surgeon should recommend their removal. The extirpation of piles with the actual cautery and caustics, as practised by the old surgeons, is now altogether relinquished. The only plan, ever followed, in the present state of surgery, is either to cut the tumors off with a pair of scis- sars or knife, or to apply a tight ligature round their base, so as to cause them to slough away. If possible, the opportunity of doing either of these operations should always be taken when the disease is in a tolerably quiet state. When piles are to be cut off, and they are not sufficiently visible, the patient must first strain, as at stool, in order to make the swell- ings more apparent. With the aid of a pair of dissecting forceps, the skin, covering the hemor- rhoids, is then to be separated from them with the knife, but not cut away, and the tumors, being taken hold of with a tenaculum, are to be removed. Sabatier states, that saving the skin is very essential; for, any hemorrhage which may arise, can then be more easily suppressed ; and, when there are several hemorrhoids to be extirpated, the loss of substance about the anus will be less, and, of course, the patient will not be so liable to a contraction of this part, which is sometimes a very great affliction. Previously to the performance of any operation, Mr. Abernethy endeavours to bring the bowels into a more regular state, and takes care to clear them with any medicine, found by experience to answer the purpose without inducing a continu- ance of irritation and purging. “The bowel being everted to the utmost by the efforts used in evacuating the feces, and the parts'cleansed by bathing with tepid water the piles should be taken hold of with a double hook, and removed by a pair of scissars. A protruded and thickened plait of the bowel may be removed in the same way ; but, I think it is best to use the bistoury in removing it, because the depth, to which the scissars may cut, is uncertain. The incision, made by the knife, resembles two curved lines, joined at each extremity.” The direction of the incision, both for the removal of piles, and that of plaits, he says, should be longitudinal, in the direction of the bowel. When there is a trans- verse fold of the bowel of considerable extent, he prefers taking away two elliptical portions in the long axis of the rectum. (See Abernethy's Surgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 239.) As I have explained in the former part of this work, (see Anus Prolapsus of) the late Mr. Hey used to remove these extensive diseased folds, about the verge of the anus, with great suc- cess. J. L. Petit used to follow the same prac- tice, (Mai. Chir. T. 2, p. 131;) and more recently, Mr. Kirby. (Ohs. on the Hemor- rhoidal Excrescence, Loud. 1817.) The late Mr. Ware published some remarks on the present subject, and the tenor of what he says is to prove, that, when there are several hemorrhoids, the removal of one, or two of the most painful of them, with a pair of scissars, will afford effectual relief. The same author asserts, that when the pain of hemorrhoids is not violent, but there is a constant distressing uneasiness, with frequent returns of a profuse debilitating hemorrhage, this method will frequently produce a radical cure. The excision of piles is occasionally followed by dangerous bleeding, as a case, related by Petit, confirms. A patient had some hemor- rhoids. which were supposed to be external, while they were only temporarily protruded. Almost immediately after they had been cut off, the skin which had supported them, was drawn inward. An internal hemorrhage ensued, which could not be suppressed, and proved fatal in less, than five hours. The rectum and colon were found full of black, coagulated blood. Sir E. Home speaks also of some instances within his knowledge, where after the removal of internal piles with the knife, the bleeding endangered life. {On Ulcers, p. 365.) If the bleeding should prove troublesome, and proceed from vessels within the rectum, the best plan would be to distend the gut with a suitable piece of sponge, so as to make pressure on the wound Cold should also be applied to the sacrum and nates. The removal of hemorrhoids, with a ligature may generally be done with sufficient safely; but, still it has its inconveniences, though they are not constant. Petit frequently practised this method, without any ill effects. In other instances, he had reason to repent of having adopted it. A woman, for whom he had tied three hemorrhoids with narrow pedicles, which were favourably situated for this operation, did not at first experience a great deal of pain. However, five hours afterwards he was informed, that she suffered violent colic pains, which ex- tended along the colon. She was bled four times, without material relief. At last. Petit cut the ligatures, which could not be loosened, in con- sequence of their being concealed so deeply in the substance of the swollen parts. The pain very soon subsided. The ligatures had only been applied four and twenty hours, but the piles had become black, and the skin covering their bases was cut through. Petit then removed them, without the least effusion of blood. Petit also relates a case, in which a patient, after having had some piles tied, died of sym- ptoms resembling those which take place in cases of strangulated herniae, notwithstanding the liga- tures were cut as in the foregoing instance. After these two cases. Petit abandoned the practice of tying hemorrhoids. Mr. Kirby has mentioned two cases, proving the ill effects sometimes arising from the ligature of piles : in one of these examples, the patient’s life was saved with great difficulty ; and, in the other, the operation was followed by tetanus and death. (Ohs. on the Treatment of certain severe Forms of Ho