906 OPIITHALMY. more or less pressed against, pushed, irritated, or violently bruised, or torn, the iris itself, and all largish wounds of the cornea, are to be accounted the principal exciting causes of idiopathic iritis. Hence, extraction of the cataract is not unfre- quently followed by this inflammation, when the flap ot the cornea is kept too long opened, and the iris is hurt with any blunt instrument; when the incision in the cornea is too small, and a hard cataract pushes the iris between the lips of the wound, and is slowly pressed out of the eye; when many pieces of the cataract break off, and it is necessary repeatedly to introduce Daniel’s scoop for their removai; or when, notwithstand- ing the operator proceed with the utmost deli- cacy, the patient is excessively timid, and un- manageable, or particularly irritable and prone to inflammation. This form of iritis is also pro- duced by couching, reclination through the scle- rotica, keratonyxis, and operations for artificial pupil. Nor, as Beer observes, is it at all sur- prising, that iritis should follow these last opera- tions, as the surgeon has often to meddle with an iris, that has been already violently inflamed. Prognosis in the first stage. Serious as the disorder always is; important as the textures are, in which the inflammation is most severe; and quickly as vision may be for ever annihilated by it; yet, says Beer, the prognosis, in the first stage, is very favourable, when the true nature of the case is at once understood, and treated as it ought to be. The prognosis is the most fa- vourable, when the inflammation is not exten- sive ; but, it must be very reserved, when the inflammation extends either deeply backward, forward, or in both directions. Beer remarks, that, when iritis is purely idiopathic, and judi- ciously treated in its first stage, it is incredible with what rapidity its effects recede. When it is produced immediately by an injury of the iris itself, and some part of this membrane is torn, the risk of the inflammation is not the only thing for consideration ; for the chance of the function of the iris being permanently impaired by the injury must also be taken into the account. And, says Beer, as in these severe injuries of the eye- ball, it is impossible to foretel what may be the result of the traumatic inflammation, it is a good maxim always either to defer making any prog- nosis, or to deliver only a doubtful one. When idiopathic iritis has already changed either into a complete internal ophthalmy, or into a violent inflammation of the whole eyeball, no incautious promises should be made, about the recovery of the eyesight, or even about preserving the shape of the eye. (Beer.) Prognosis in the second stage. Though, says I3cer, this is much less favourable, than in the first stage, yet if proper measure be not deferred, a perfect recovery of the eye may often be effected. Here a great deal depends upon the state of the layer of lymph effused in the pos- terior chamber, and of suppuration. If it be plain to the naked eye, that no coagulating lymph lies in that chamber behind the contracted pupil, but slight grevish filaments arc discernible with a magnifying glass, projecting only a little way from behind the pupillary edge of the his; if the colour merely of the lesser circle of the iris be changed, while no little cyst of matter is yet formed on the latter membrane, and the sight is cloudy; the complaint may be so completed cured by proper means, that not a vestige of hj will remain. However, for some time after the* termination of the second stage, the motions ofl* the iris will be more sluggish than natural,! though the pupil effectually adapt itself to thell variations of light. On the other hand, when aj considerable, though fine, web-like membraueU can be plainly seen behind the pupil; when the# colour of the larger circle of the iris is somewhatH altered; and the power of vision is seriouslyM lessened; though, by effectual treatment, the lip sight may be re-established sufficiently to enable || the patient to read and write; yet, says Beer, it In will for ever continue weak ; the pupillary edge H of the iris will never regain its perfect freedom, * but constantly remain more or less angular; andf'j the pupil never assume again the clear 'shining B blackness, which in persons not of great age it f. i naturally exhibits. Still more remarkable are \ j the sequelae of idiopathic iritis, when a small cyst S’ of matter has been formed on the iris, and dis- charged its contents into the anterior chamber; i‘ for, in this case, under the best circumstances, j the former colour of the iris never entirely re- I turns. According to Beer, when at the first visit of the surgeon, vision is quite interrupted by the effusion of lvmph in the posterior cham- ber, so that the patient can no longer perceive ij any object with the affected eye, though capable j. of distinguishing the light, and the outlines of t’ some things; when the pupil is at the same time very contracted, and the colour of the greater circle of the iris entirely changed; there is no ! hope of recovery of the sight at first, though i some chance of benefit may be subsequently afforded by the formation of an artificial pupil. 1 If, says Beer, in such a case, matter has been effused from several little suppurating points of the iris, so copiously into the anterior chamber, j that nearly all this cavity, or at least the half of j it, is filled up, though after absorption some ; power of distinguishing light may return, little or no hope can be entertained of any effectual benefit from a future operation for an artificial pupil. When, at the termination of the first ! stage, the cornea is so severely inflamed, that the iris almost touches this membrane in its untransparent thickened state, ail prospect of saving the eyesight is over, and it will be for- tunate if the natural shape of the eye can now be preserved, and the formation of a staphyloma ; of the cornea prevented. W'hen the layer of | lymph between the cornea and the iris is ex- j tensive, and considerable blood vessels can be ;! seen proceeding into it from the iris, Beer says, jj nothing will succeed in re-establishing vision. j And he observes, that, when an idiopathic iritis, ; at the close of its first stage, has changed into a true internal ophthalmy, and the pupil is already quite blocked up, so that even the light cannot be distinguished, the recovery of sight is quite impossible, and the surgeon must make every exertion to prevent the shape of the organ from being destroyed. In this disease, says Beer, a relapse, even when the inflammation has not been very considerable in the first attack, almost constantly ends in partial or complete blindness of the aficcted eye, us the progress of the case is so rapid, that there is not time enough to render effectual assistance. TWr ilin-riK hlionntliic iritis to be treated »• 115