02 AMPUTATION. operation a week, at the end of which he was car- ried off by the plague; and the others died, after being conveyed, in a very uneasy manner, during a precipitate inarch of the army. (See Relation tit l'Expedition tie L'Armce d’Orient en Etrypte, §c. )>■ 319, 8vo. Pai is, 1803.) At the battle of Wa- gram, Larrey operated at the hip-joint on two soldiers of the imperial guard, under very unfa- vourable circumstances; and the events were fatal in a few hours. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 3, p. 349.) Larrey used to operate as follows : he began with making an incision in the track of the ingui- nal artery in the bend of the groin, and, after carefully excluding the nerve, which is more ex- ternally situated, lie tied this vessel, with the aid of a semicircular curved needle, as closely as possible to Poupart’s ligament, in order that the ligature, which was placed above the origin of the circumflex arteries and the profunda, might ob- viate all inconvenience from the bleeding, which might otherwise happen from their numerous branches. This being done, a straight knife was perpendicularly plunged between the tendons of the muscles attached to the trochanter minor and the base of the neck of the femur, so as to bring out its point at the back part of the limb, or in a diametrically opposite situation to its first entrance; and now by directing the knife obliquely inwards and downwards, a flap, which was not to be too large, was made of the soft parts at the inner and upper portion of the limb. This flap was now drawn towards the scrotum by an assistant, and the ar- ticulation was brought into view. The obturator artery, and some branches of the pudendal, wound- ed by making the flap, were immediately tied. The thigh was now put into the state of abduction; the inner part of the orbicular ligament, made tense by this position, was divided, and the joint opened. The ligamentum teres was then to be cut, and the bone dislocated. The knife was next to be brought to the outside of the great trochanter, and an external flap formed of the soft parts, cal- culated to meet that which had been made at the in- side of the limb. In proceeding through the opera- tion, Larrey secured, as soon as they were divided, the obturator arteries, and several branches of the pudendal, gluteal, and ischiatic arteries. The two flaps were brought together, and kept in this position, with strips of adhesive plaster, and a woollen spica bandage. (See Mem. de Cliir. MU. t.‘2. p. 186- 188.) In the Russian campaign, Larrey had two more opportunities of amputating at the hip-joint. In the first instance, he operated upon a Russian at Witepsk, whose thigh bone was broken to pieces up to the trochanter, and the soft parts of two- thirds of the thickness of the limb destroyed. This man went on as favourably as possible until the 2nth day from the operation, the parts being healed except at two points, where the ligatures had been brought out; but, unfortunately a scarcity of provisions now occurred from some neglect, or another; and the patient on the 29th or ;30th day, fell a victim. The second operation was done on a French dragoon after the battle of Mozaisk, who was afterwards seen perfectly cured by the surgeon-major, at Orcha, who re- ceived him there, and made a report of the fact to Larreybv letter. (See Mem. de Chiu Mil. I. 4, r. 26-50-51, 8or. Paris, 1817 ) In 1812, M. llaffos, surgeon to the Hdpital des Enfans Malades at Paris, amputated at the hip nearly in the manner of Larrey, except that he only compressed the artery in the groin, and did not begin with tying it, a method to which Larrey himself now gives the preference. (See Mem. de Chir. MU. T. 4. p. 434.) The patient was a child, seven years old, and the case a dis- eased hip. The patient got well of the wound; but died of scrofula, three months afterwards. The cotyloid cavity was found full of fungous flesh, and the os innominatum carious. As the latter state always exists in the diseased hip-joint, the whole of the disease does not admit of re- moval by amputation, and consequently the at- tempt ought never to be made. (See Joints, Dis- eases of.) The plan of operating, adopted by Bafifos, is considered, I believe, by all surgeons of the pre- sent day, better than that formerly advised by Larrey, inasmuch as the objectionable and unne- cessary preliminary measure of taking up the ar- tery in the groin, instead of simply compressing it against the os pubis, was rejected. Cutting down to the artery as a precaution against he- morrhage, is doing a double operation, and put- ting the patient to needless suffering : it was the earliest method, having been proposed by Volther and Puthod. Who was the first proposer to press the artery against the os pubis, instead of cutting down to the vessel, I am not at present aware; but I know that it has been publicly recom- mended by Mr. Abernethy, in his anatomical lectures for the last thirty years: it is twenty- three years since I began to attend his courses, and, in the exhibition of this operation, by the circular incision upon the dead subject, compres- sion of the artery in the groin was then advised, and, as I have stated, not for the first time. Larrey’s practice also of running a long narrow knife through the limb, in order to form the inner flap, is highly objectionable, as the parts can never be divided in this vague manner without considerable irregularity. I am glad to find Mr. Guthrie has entered his protest against it, and re- commended making the incisions for both flaps from without inwards; (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 178.) an improvement, which he would have been right in advising for other flap-amputations. When serving with the army in Holland in 1814, I assisted Dr. Cole in the performance of this operation. The plan adopted by him, is the same as has been taught by Mr. Abernethy, in his lectures for the last thirty years. The flow of blood through the femoral artery was stopped by Compressing the vessel in the groin with the handle of a key covered with lint. The thigh was then amputated as high as possible, close below the trochanters. The femoral artery was imme- diately secured, and afterwards every other ves- sel requiring ligature. An incision was now made directly on the acetabulum, and the head of the bone removed with the utmost facility and expedition. The patient lost even less blood, than in an ordinary amputation, and the wound ad- mitted of being brought together with adhesive plaster in the best manner possible, so as to re- present a transverse line. I am sorry to add, that the patient lived only till the following day. In one dreadful case of fracture of the upper part of the femur by a grape shot, when the operation had been delayed too long, the whole limb being inundated with matter, and the upper end of the