440 EYE. warts, which has involved the whole of the eye- ball, optic nerve, and surrounding parts, and ren- dered the bones of the orbit carious, and con- taminated the lymphatic glands behind the angle of the jaw, and, in the neck, is incurable. 4. On the contrary, the partial, or total ex- tirpation of the eye will succeed, when attempted before the external fungous excrescence has changed from the state of softness to that of a scirrhous, warty, and carcinomatous hardness. (Vol. cit. p. 5C26.) The operation of removing the eye was first performed in the sixteenth century by Bartisch, a German practitioner, who employed a coarsely constructed instrument, shaped like a spoon, with cutting edges, and by means of which the eye was separated from the surrounding parts, and taken out of the orbit. This instrument was too broad to admit of ready introduction to the deep contracted part of the orbit, so that, when it was used, either a part of the disease was likely to be left behind, or the thin bones of the orbit to be fractured in the attempt to pass it more deeply into that cavity. Fabricius Hikla- nus became acquainted with these inconveni- ences by experience, and, in order to avoid them, devised a sort of probe-pointed bistoury; a better instrument, but not free from objections, and forgotten for near a century afterwards; sur- geons continuing to use sometimes the cutting spoon, sometimes various kinds of hooks. Muys, Bartholine, &c. afford examples of operations so performed. Bidloo made use of scissars, and a pointed bistoury. A lancet seemed to Lavauguyon sufficient for extirpating the eye, and he is the first French surgeon who has spoken of this operation. All the surgeons of that country considered the ope- ration as useless, cruel, and dangerous, until St. Ives mentioned, that he had done it with success. HeJster preferred operating with the bistoury alone. Several English surgeons have used a sort of curved knife, an engraving of which is given in B. Bell’s system; but, in dissecting the tumor, this instrument was regarded by Louis as Jess convenient, than a straight bistoury. Thus far the plans of operating, advised by authors, were not guided by any fixed rules. Louis endeavoured to Lay down such rules, and for a long while his method was mostly adopted in France. It consists in dividing the attach- ments of the eye to the eyelids; then those of the small oblique muscle; next, those of the great oblique muscle; then those of the leva- tor palpebrae superioris, varying, according to their insertions, the manner of holding the knife. The eyeball is afterwards detached, and the four straight muscles, and optic nerve, divided with a pair of scissars. This way of operating, founded upon anatomi- cal principles, seems at first glimpse to offer a method, in which, as Louis remarks, each stroke of the instrument is guided by the knowledge of the parts. But, it is to be noticed, that these parts, being altered by disease, most commonly do not present the same structure and relations, which they do in the natural state; and that the flattened, lacerated, destroyed muscles, on their being confused with the eye itself, cannot serve, as in' lithotomy, for the foundation of any pre- cept relative to the operation. Besides, why use both the knife and scissars ? 1 he latter instru- ment is obviously useless, though Louis seems to think the operation cannot be done without it. The inclination of the outer side of the orbit will always allow a bistoury to be carried to the bot- tom of this cavity, so as to divide from above downwards, the optic nerve, and muscular at- tachments. Guided by the above principles, Desault, after having practised, and taught the method of Louis, returned to Heister’s advice, who directs only a bistoury to be employed. To have an exact idea of the mode of operating, which is always easy and simple with this one instrument, we must suppose the carcinoma to be in three different states. 1. When the tumor hardly projects out of the orbit, so that the eyelids are free. 2- When it is much larger, projects considerably forward, and pushes in this direction the tieaithy eyelids, which are in contact with it, together with a portion of the conjunctiva, which invests them, and is now detached from them. 3. When, in a much more advanced period, the eyelids participate in the cancerous state. In the first case, the eyelids must be separated from the eye, by cutting through the conjunctiva, where it turns to be reflected over the globe of the eye. In the second instance, the eyelids and conjunc- tiva, which are in contact with the diseased eye, muse be dissected from it. In the third, these parts must be cut away, together with the eye. (ffinrm Chir. >!e Desault, T. 2.) After the above observations, and the addi- tional information on the subject contained in the 1 st vol. of the 4th Edition of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, I shall conclude this article with a few brief directions. When the eyeball is exceedingly enlarged, it is necessary to divide the eyelids at the exter- nal angle, in order to facilitate the operation. The surgeon can in general operate most con- veniently when he employs a common dissecting knife, and when his patient is lying down with his face exposed to a good light. In cutting^aut a dis- eased eye, it is necessary to draw the part for- wards, regularly as its surrounding attachments are divided, in order that its connexions, which are still more deeply situated, may be teaehed with the knife. This object cannot be very well accomplished with the fingers, or forceps, and, therefore, most surgical writers recommend us, either to introduce a ligature through the front of the tumor, (see Travers, Simopsis^ p. 308,) or to employ a hook, for the purpose of drawing the part in any direction, during the operation, which the necessary proceedings may require. When the eyelids are diseased, they must be removed; but, if prudence sanctions their being preserved, this is an immense advan- tage. The eye must not be drawn out too for- cibly, before the optic nerve is divided, and care must be taken not to penetrate any of the fora- mina, or thin parts of the orbit, with the point of the knife, for fear of injuring the brain. Great care should also be taken to leave no dis- eased parts behind, in the orbit. The hemor- rhage maybe stopped by filling the orbit wit i scraped lint, and applying a compress and ban - age. It is constantly advisable to remove the lachrymal gland, as this part seems to be parti- cularly apt to be the source of such inveterate un- gous diseases, as too often follow the operation. Mr. Travers, with a straight double-cdg-