ERYSIPELAS. 42b lent matter, a feel is communicated, on com- pressing the part, almost like that which a sponge would give. In such cases, the cellular sub- stance is frequently grangrenous. It does not appear to me, that any very exact information has yet been established respecting the causes of erysipelas. We absolutely know nothing about the immediate cause; the prevail- ing ideas concerning the predisposing causes are vatrue; and only those causes, termed exciting, appear entitled to mnch confidence. 1 hey arc: 1. Violent passions, such as anger, acute grief, &c. 2. Exposure to the heat of the sun, or that of tire fire, too long continued. S. The impression of cold damp air. 4. The action of various vegetable, mineral, and animal poisons. 5. Wounds, contusions, fractures, the stings of insects, &c. In most cases, erysipelas would seem to be intimately dependent on the state of the con- stitution. Thus, persons in the habit of drunken- ness, and other kinds of intemperance, and who, in a state of intoxication, meet with local in- juries, often have erysipelatous inflammation in consequence of them. Other subjects, who lead more regular lives, experience, when they meet with similar injuries, healthy phlegmonous in- flammation. The opinion of Hippocrates and Galen, with : respect to the origin cf this disorder from a con- gestion of the bile, is universally known to all initiated in the profession of surgery. This old doctrine has been, in some measure, revived by Tissot, and many other believers in the humoral j pathology, who attribute the cause of erysipelas to an acrid humor, commonly a bilious one, dif- fused through the mass of the blood. But, much as I despise the absurdity of this theory, observa- tion obliges me to confess, that the complaint seems frequently to be connected with a wrong state of the chylopoietic viscera, and especially of the liver. A further proof, that erysipelas is mostly de- pendent on constitutional causes, is, that the af- fection most frequently happens in autumn, or in any season, when hot weather is succeeded by cold and wet. Erysipelas frequently attacks both sexes; but women are thought to be rather more subject to ;t than men, and the reason for this circumstance, generally mentioned, is the greater delicacy and tenderness of the skin in females. But, it would be juite as rational to suspect their weaker and more rritabfe constitutions, and their sedentary mode jf life. In lying-in hospitals, and other charities or the reception of children, new-born infants ire often afflicted with a species of erysipelas, vhich begins in the umbilical region, and thence xtends to the pudenda. This case, which some- imes terminates in gangrene, and proves fatal, ■as been ascribed by some writers to injury done o the navel string during labour, and by others o the bad air frequently allowed to accumulate n establishments of the above description ; a •ausc, which too often renders complaints, which ire at first trivial, ultimately fatal. Sometimes, the complaint is scarcely cured in me place, when it makes its appearance in an- >thcr, and when this tendeuev is evinced in a great degree, the case is termed erysipelas am- bulant, vcl cn'aticum. La Motte has published a striking instance of this form of the disease. A child, between nine and ten years of age, was attacked with erysipelas of the scalp, forehead, and ears, which afterwards extended to the neck and then to the shoulders, while the scalp and face became free from it: in proportion as the disease spread downwards, all the upper parts got well, so that, in the end, there was no portion of the surface of the body, which had escaped, even down to the fingers and toes, the parts last of all affected. (Obs. Chir.) A very uncommon variety of disease is an universal erysipelas. No disorder is more sub- ject, than the present, to relapses; but a re- markable thing, sometimes attending the return of the complaint, is its being sometimes strictly periodical. In chlorotic women, the erysipelatous attack is occasionally made every month just at the period when the menses should take place. {Hofman.) This periodical nature of erysipelas has been observed in men : Lorry knew two male patients, one of whom used to be attacked with erysipelas twice a year at the time of the equinox; the other had only one attack annually, which was wont to happen in the beginning of the spring. My friend, Mr. Maul of Southampton, lately informed me of an erysipelas, which was both periodical and universal, affecting a lady several times, at intervals of two years. A doctrine has been started, that erysipelas is sometimes propagated by contagion. (Wells, in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Snrg. Knowledge, Vol. 2, Art. 11, 1800.) But, as Dr. Bateman has truly remarked, such cases are, at all events, extremely rare, and perhaps never happen in well-ventilated and cleanly houses. (Si,nojisis, §c. p. 131.) In places of an opposite description, the infection of many in- dividuals togetlier might be explained by the operation of the same exciting causes upon them all, without any supposition of contagion. The characters which distinguish erysipelas from phlegmon are: 1. The inflammatory swelling, which takes place in the former, is not so elevated as in the latter, and is never plainly circumscribed. 2. In most cases, the surface of the skin seems as if it were burnt. 3. The redness, though of a bright description, disappears on pressure. 4. The sense of throbbing, and darting pain, attendant on phlegmon, is not observable. 5. The inflamed part is free from tension, and appears as if it were affected with oedema, or rather with emphysema; only one can perceive no crepitation. It must not be inferred from these differences, that erysipelas is to be considered as a disease essentially distinct from those, which arc called inflammatory, as it has some characters in which it manifestly approaches them. Like phlegmonous inflammations, it may be excited by any local irritation. Like other inflammations, it may end in suppuration, though of a less perfect sort, than that in which phlegmon ends, and rarely contained in a circumscribed cavity. I he pulse, in phlegmonous erysipelas, is frequent, hard, some- times full; and when the patients arc bled, their blood has the same appearance, and is covered