POE osening them. Then the ointment of cocculus dieus is to be applied to the red cuticle, and terwards any of the more stimulant ointments >ove enumerated. 4. Porrigo Scutulata, or ringworm of the •alp, as Dr. Bateman has observed, makes its tpearance in separate patches, of an irregular A-ular shape, upon the scalp, forehead, and .ok. It commences with clusters of small, ght yellow pustules, which soon break, and irm thin scabs, which, if neglected, become lick and hard. If the scabs are removed, how- ver, the surface underneath is left red and lining, but studded with slightly elevated oints, or pustules. When the disorder is neg- •cted, the patches become confluent, and the 'hole head affected. Where the disease is situ- : ted, the hair becomes lighter in its colour, it . ills off, and its roots are destroyed. The por- igo scutulata generally occurs in children three or four years old and upwards, and frequently -iroves exceedingly obstinate. According to Or. Bateman, it seems to originate spontane- ously in children of feeble and flabby habit, and vho are ill fed, uncleanly, and not sufficiently exercised; but he thinks that it is chiefly pro- pagated by contagion, i. e. by the actual convey- ance of the matter from the diseased to the healthy, as may happen in the frequent contact of the heads of children, the use of the same towels, combs, caps, and hats. While the patches are inflamed and irritable, it is necessary to limit the local applications to washing the parts with warm water. Even sshaving the scalp, which must be repeated at in- ; tervals of eight or ten days, produces a tempo- rary irritation. Nothing but a light linen cap i is now to be worn, and it must be often changed. The disease afterwards forms dry scabs, and becomes for a time less irritable; but a fresh eruption of achores soon follows, and the inflam- mation and redness return. In the inflamed states, Dr. Bateman recom- mends the use of ointments, made either with the cocculus indicus, submuriate of mercury, oxide of zinc, superacetate of lead, opium, or tobacco ; or else the infusion of poppy heads, or tobacco. Where there is an acrimonious discharge, Dr. Bateman prescribes the zinc, or saturnine ointments, the ung. hydrarg. prmcip. calomel ointment, or a lotion of lime water and calomel. In the less irritable stages, the ung. hydrarg. prrecip. the ung. hydrarg. nitrico-oxydi, and especially the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. are often effectual remedies. So are the ointments of sul- phur, tar, hellebore, and turpentine, and lotions of the sulphates of zinc and copper, the oxymu- riate of mercury. I have often seen a solution of of the sulphuret of potassa in a pint of lirne water, succeed when most other applications had failed. In the very dry and inert state of the patches, Dr Bateman has seen the disease removed by a lotion, containing from three to' six grains of the nitrate of silver in an ounce of distilled water. The application of the diluted mineral acids, or of a blister, has also been known to put a permanent stoppage to the mor- bid action. In general, no local application agrees well, if long continued, and it is necessary to have seve- ral, which must be alternately employed. EOT 937 The cure may often be expedited by cinchona, chalybeate, and alterative medicines ; and atten- tion must be paid to the patient’s diet, exer- cise, See. 5. Porrigo decalvans consists in bald patches, surrounded by hair, which is as thick as usual. It is not known, whether any eruption of minute achores actually precedes the detachment of the hair. Dr. Bateman remarks, that if the sculp is regularly shaved, and some stimulating liniment be applied to it, this obstinate affection may at length be overcome, and the hair will regain its usual strength and "Colour. Two drams of oil of mace in three or four ounces of alcohol, are said to make an excellent liniment. 6'. porrigo favosa consists of an irruption of the large, soft, straw-coloured flattened pustules, denominated favi, which may occur on any part of the body ; but most commonly spread from the scalp, especially behind the ears, to the face, or from the lips and chin to the scalp. They are attended with considerable itching, and are most frequently seen in children from six months to four years of age, though adults are also often affected. The pustules pour out a viscid matter, which concretes into greenish or yellowish semi- transparent scabs. When the hair and moist scabs are matted together, pediculi are often generated in great numbers, and aggravate the itching and irritation. If the disease be allowed to increase, the scabs are thickened into irregu- lar^masses, not unlike honey-comb; and consi- derable ulcerations sometimes form, especially when the heel and toes, or other parts of the lower extremities, are affected. The ulcerating blotches are generally soon followed by irritation and swelling of the lymphatic glands, which sometimes slowly suppurate. The contact of the discharge inoculates the disease; thus, in young children the breast is inoculated by the chin ; and the arm and breast of the nurse may be infected in the same way; though adults do not take the complaint so quickly as children. The porrigo favosa requires the same alter- atives internally, as the porrigo larvalis. The diet should consist of milk, puddings, and a little plain animal food. When the habit is bad, and the glands swelled, bark, chalybeates, and a solution of the muriate of barytes, are proper. As local applications, Dr. Bateman prefers the unguentum zinci, or the ung. hydrarg. prae- cip. mixed with this or the saturnine ointment, especially when the discharge is copious. Hq also speaks favourably of the ung. hydrarg. ni- trat. the strength of which is to be diminished by an addition of simple cerate, according to the degree of irritation present. For the preceding particulars I am indebted to Dr. Bateman’s valuable Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, where the reader, desirous of additional information respecting porrigo, will be amply gratified. POTASSA ARSENICATA. Kali Arse- nicatum .Arscnias Kali. jy. Oxydi albi arse- nici, potassae nitratis sing. <;j. Crucibulo amplo igne candenti injice nitrum, et liquefacto adde gradntiin arsenicum in frustulis dopec vapores nitrosi oriri cessaverint. Solve materiam in aquae distillatrc j|\iv, ct post idoneam evapora- tionem sepone ut fiant crystalli. These crystals