£17 BLADDER. The consequence was, that when such a trocar was too long, its cannula was apt to hurt the opposite parietes of the bladder, so as to oc- casion inflammation and a slough, on the separa- tion of which the urine was liable to insinuate itself either into the abdomen, or rectum, as happened in a case mentioned by Mr. Sharp, where no more urine was discharged through the cannula, and the patient died of a sort ot diarrhoea. When the trocar is short, the bladder on subsiding and contracting itself, gradually quits the cannula, which becomes useless, and a nedessi ty for making another puncture may be pro- duced. Whatever pains may be taken to direct the trocar obliquely downwards and backwards, so that the cannula may be. in some degree, parallel to the axis of the bladder, one, or the other of these accidents, cannot always be prevented. Their prevention, however, may be effected by merely employing instead of a straight trocar, a curved one, which will naturally take a suitable direction. This improvement was embraced by Frere Come, the inventor of the lithotome cache, who also devised a curved trocar, for the para- centesis of the bladder, very superior to the in- strument of the same shape previously in use. To this way of operating, Mr. Sharp was partial, and Mr. Abernethy has more recently recommended it, under certain circumstances. The former celebrated surgeon remarks, that it is an operation of no difficulty to the surgeon, and of little pain to the patient, the violence done to the bladder being at a distance from the parts affected. It is equally applicable, whether the disorder be in the urethra, or prostate gland, and when there are strictures, the use of bougies may be continued, while the cannula remains in the bladder. (Critical Enquiry, p- 125, edit. 4.) Some writers recommend making an in- cision, about two inches long, through the linea alba, a Tittle way above the pubes, and then in- troducing a trocar into the bladder. Others deem this preliminary' incision quite useless, asserting, that the operation may be performed with equal safety, and less pain to the patient, by puncturing at once the skin, the linea alba, and the bladder. When the trocar has been introduced, the stilette must be withdrawn, and the cannula kept in its position by a riband, passed through two little rings, with which it should be constructed, and fastened round the body. The orifice of the can- nula should he stepped up with a little plug, so as to keep the urine from dribbling away in- voluntarily, and taken out as often as may be necessary'. (Encyclopedic Methodique ; Part. Chirurg. Art. Parncentese de In Vers it.) The trocar should be introduced in a direction obliquely downward and backward; for as this corresponds with the axis of the bladder, the in- strument will be less likely to injure the opposite side of that organ* Nearly all writers advise the puncture to be made an inch, or an inch and a half, above the pubes. The reasons for so doing are the follow- mg: <• If the puncture be made dose to the os pubis, the bladder in that part, often rising with an almost perpendicular slope, leaves a chasm be- tween it and the abdominal muscles, or, to speak more strictly, a certain depth of membrana cel- u aris only, so that, if the trocar penetrate but a little way, it possibly may not enter into the bladder. It it penetrates considerably, it may pass through the bladder into the rectum, or, if not in the operation itself, some days afterwards, when by the course of the illness and confine- ment the patient is more wasted. For, the ab- dominal muscles, shrinking and falling in, oc- casion the extremity of the cannula to press against the lower part of the bladder, and, in a small time, to make a passage into the rectum.” (Sharp in Critical Eiiquin/, p. 127.) Though the rea- sons here adduced seem at first as formidable as they are numerous, does not the danger of injuring the peritoneum form an objection to plunging in a trocar at the above distance from the pubes? Certain it is, peritonitis would be more apt to be induced by' such practice, than by introducing the instrument immediately above the pubes. Richerand decidedly' condemns the plan, principally because the higher the puncture is made, the more apt wiil the bladder be to quit the cannula, on the urine being discharged. (See Nosogr. Chir. T. S, p. 472, Ed. 2.) In Desault’s works, by Bichat, the puncture is also advised to be made immediately above the pubes. Tom. 3, p 318. Some of Mr. Sharp’s objections are done away, by taking care to pass the trocar into the bladder in the axis of this viscus, and em- ploying one which is somewhat curved, as Hunter, Frere Come, Sabatier, Ac, have advised. Mr. Sharp confirms the danger of using too long a cannula, by mentioning an accident, which oc- curred in his own practice. Though he intro- duced the instrument more than an inch and a half above the os pubis, yet having pushed it full two inches and a half, below the surface of the skin, its extremity in six or seven days insinuated itself into the rectum. (Critical. Enquiry, p. 127.) The instrument, says an excellent writer, should be more or less long, according as the patient is fat, or otherwise; but, the ordinary length should be about four inches and a half. The curvature should be uniform, and form the segment of a circle, about eight inches in diameter. ( (Euvres Chi'-, de IJesault par Bichat, T. 3, p. 317.) A catheter left in the bladder, longer, than ten day's, may possibly gather such an incrusta- tion from the urine, as not only to render the extraction of it painful, but even impracticable. Surgeons, therefore, should never leave the can- nula in the bladder quite a fortnight: or, if it must be kept introduced so long, Mr. Sharp advises a second one to be introduced, made with an end, like that of a catheter. (Critical Enquiry, p. 129.) Mursirina, however, has reported one ex- ample, in which a cannula was kept in for a long time without inconvenience. (llecker, Annalts der Gcs. Medicin. 1810, JuL p. 39.) Mr. Abernethy makes an incision, between the pyramidales muscles, passes his fingers along the upper part of the symphysis pubis, so as to touch the distended bladder, and introduces a common trocar, of the middle size, in a direction obliquely' downwards. On withdrawing the stilette, he passes a middle-sized hollow elastic catheter, through the cannula, into the bladder. The cannula is withdrawn, and the catheter left in, till the urine passes through the urethra. After a week, as the instrument begins to be stopped up with