pil PILUL/E HYDRARGYRI OXYDI RUBllI. One grain of this preparation in each >ill is the dose, which is commonly taken at bed- ime. (See Mercury.) PILULiE HYDRARGYRI CUM CO- nHO. ft. Hydrargyri purificati drach. j. Ara- >ici gummi pulverisati drach. ij. Extracti Conii rirach. j. Herbae Cicutm foliorum, in pulverem ritorum, q. s. Tlie quicksilver is to be first educed by triture with the gum arabic, moist- med with a little rain water. The inspissated uice of hemlock is afterwards to be added, and, : astlv, the powdered leaves in sufficient quantity o make a suitable mass for pills. These with a ■ .light variation in the proportion of the hemlock, ..re the pilulae mcrcurialcs of Plenck, who directs liree or four pills, each of three grains, to be L jiven every night and morning. There are, no doubt, many cases, to which this formula must be very suitable ; as for instance, the enlarged prostate gland, and some forms of bronchocele, &c. For such diseases, Dr. Saunders, m his Formulas Selectee, directs equal parts of pil. hydrarg. and extractum conii. (Pharm. C/iir.) PILULZE HYDRARG. SUBMUR. ft. Hydrarg. Submur. gr. xij. Conserve Cynosbati quod satis sit. M. fiant pil. xii. These are the ca- lomel pills in common use. Surgeons give one, or two of them daily, as alteratives, in numerous cases. At Guy’s Hospital, they add three grains of the pulvis opiatus to each pill, using syrup, ; instead of the conserve. PILUL E HYDRARG. SUBMUR. CUM iCONIO. ft. Hydrarg. Submur. gr. vj. Ex- tracti Conii 3j- M. fiant pil. xii. One may be given thrice a day, in scirrhous, cancerous, scrophulous, and some anomalous diseases, re- sembling venereal diseases. PILUL/E HYDRARGYRI SUBMUR. CUM ANTIMONIO TARTARISATO. ft. Hydrarg. Submur. 3j* Antimon. Tart. gr. xv. Opii. Pur. 3ss. Syrupi simpl. q. s. fiant pil. lx. One of these is given twice a day, in St. Thomas’s Hospital, in cases of diseased joints. As the author of the Pharm. Chirurg. adds, they are also of use in herpetic affections, and obstinate ulcers. The union of antimony with quicksilver, according to Dr. G. Fordvce, quickens the specific operation of the latter. PILUL/E HYDRARG. SUBxMUR. COMPOSIT/E. ft. Hydrarg. Subm. Sulph. Antim. Praecip. sing. gr. xii. Guaiaci Gummi Resinae gr. xxiv. Saponis q. s. M. fiant pil. xii., Similar to Plummer’s pills. In porrigo, herpetic affections, and many anomalous diseases, they are exceedingly useful. Some diseased enlarge- ments of the breast, and testicle, seem also to be benefited by them. PILUL/E OPII. These need only be men- tioned among such as are of eminent utility in surgery. ^ PILULZE OPII COMPOSITE, ft. Opii Purif. Camphorse, sing. 3j* Antim. Tart. gr. xv. Syrup. Simpl. q. s. fiant pil. lx. Used for alleviating pain, and keeping up a gentle per- spiration ; are particularly useful in preventing painful erections, in cases of gonorrhoea, clior- dee, &c. (See Pharm. Chir.) PILULZE PLUMBI ACETATIS. ft. Plumbi Acctatis gr. xii. Opii Purif. gr. vj. POL S55 Conserv. Cynosbati q. s. M. fiant pil. xii. One may be given thrice a day. Gleets are, perhaps, the only cases, in which surgeons can employ these pills. PILULZE SOD.E CUM SAPONE. ft. Sodac 3j. Saponis Qj. M. Fiant pil. xii. Four may be given thrice a day, in cases of broncho- cele, and indurations of the absorbent glands from scrophula. PILULxE ZINCI SULPHATIS. ft. Zinci Sulphatis, 3>j- Terebinthinre q. s. Fiant pil. lx. One, or two, are occasionally given, in cases of gleets, thrice a day. PLANTARIS MUSCLE. This long slen- der muscle of the leg is said to be sometimes ruptured, particularly in dancing and leaping. The surgeon can do little more than advise rest, and the same posture of the limb, as in the rup- ture of the tendo Achillis. (See Tendon.) POLYPUS, (from wo? v;, many, and — uc, afoot.) A kind of tumor, which is generally narrow where it originates, and then becomes wider, somewhat like a pear; which is most com- monly met with in the nose, uterus, vagina, and antrum ; and which received its name from an erroneous idea, that it usually had several roots, or feet, like polypi, or zoophites. Polypi more frequently grow in the cavity of the nose, from the Schneiderean membrane, than any other situation, and are visibly of different kinds; some being red, soft, and sensible; but free from pain, and exactly like a piece of healthy Uesh. This, which has been termed the fleshy polypus, is the most common, and fortunately the most easy of cure. Other polypi are called malignant, being hard, scirrhous, and painful: some are said to be even capable of conversion into carcinoma. Richter describes another kind of nasal polypus, which is pale, very tough, and secretes a viscid discharge ; which undergoes an alteration of its size with every change of the weather; and which is rather a relaxation, or elongation, of a part of the Schneiderean mem- brane, than a polypous excrescence. The whole membranous lining of the nostrils is sometimes relaxed, and thickened in this manner, so as nearly to fill all the cavity of the nose. (An- fungsgr. dcr Wnndarzn. B. 1, Kap. 21.) Mr. Pott has taken great pains to explain, that there is one kind of polypus, originally benign ; another originally malignant. He states, that those, which begin with, or are preceded bv con- siderable, or frequent pain in the forehead and upper part of the nose, and which, as soon as they can be seen, are either highly red, or of a dark purple colour; those, which from the time of their being first noticed, have never been ob- served to be sometimes bigger, sometimes less, but have constantly rather increased; those, in which coughing, sneezing, or blowing the nose, gives pain, or produces a very disagreeable sen- sation in the nostril, or forehead ; those which, when within reach, are painful to the touch, or which, upon being slightly touched, are apt to bleed ; those which seem to be fixed, and not moveable by the action of blowing the nose, or oi driving the air through the affected nostril only (when the polypus is only on side;) those which are incompressibly hard, and which, when pressed, occasion pain in the corner of the eye, and fore- head, and which, if they shed any thing, shed