HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 6o5 Ulcers, attacked with hospital gangrene, are not affected in any degree, like scorbutic ulcers, by the use of vegetable diet and lemon-juice, and they occur among men, who are fed upon fresh meat and vegetables, as readily as they do among those, who have been fed altogether upon salt provisions. (Thomson's Lectures on Inflam- mation, p. 482.) Hospital gangrene is almost always accompanied with severe febrile sym- ptoms; but, “ as to fevers (says Dr. Lind), it may indeed be doubted whether there be any such as are purely and truly scorbutic. The disease is altogether of a chronic nature; and fevers may be justly reckoned amongst its ad- ventitious symptoms.” (Treatise on the Scurvy, p. 106.) In cases of hospital gangrene, the ge- neral symptoms of scurvy are also absent, such as soreness and bleeding of the gums, livid blotches and wheals on the fleshy part of the legs, cedematous ankles, &c. Hospital gangrene (says Boyer) is a species of humid gangrene, which attacks in some de- gree epidemically the wounds and ulcers of pa- tients, who happen to be crowded together in an unhealthy place. Its occasional causes are; the situation of an hospital upon a low marshy ground ; the vicinity of some source of infection ; the uncleanliness of the individuals, or of the articles for their use; the crowded state of the wards, especially when they are small and badly ventilated ; lastly, every thing that tends to corrupt the air which the pa- tients breathe. An infected atmosphere may produce in the most simple wounds unfavourable changes, partly, as Boyer conceives, by its im- mediate action on the surface of the wound, but, no doubt, principally, by its hurtful influence upon the whole animal economy. The foregoing causes have p.lso sometimes produced alarming and obstinate gangrenes of an epidemic kind, or, at least, a state of the constitution, under the in- fluence of which all wounds and ulcers constantly took on a bad aspect, and were often complicated with the most gangrenous mischief. Vigaroux saw such an epidemic disease prevail for twenty months in the two hospitals of Montpellier, and he states, that the most powerful antiseptics were of little avail against the disorder, which often in- vaded the slightest scratches. In general, this epidemic species of gangrene is not observed in new-built hospitals, nor in those, which are erected out of the central parts of cities, upon high ground. Hospital gangrene may occur in any season; but, it is most common after the sultry heat of summer. A bilious constitution, mental trouble, un- wholesome or insufficient food, a scorbutic dia- thesis, great debility, and fevers of a dangerous type, are also reckoned by the French surgeons as so many predisposing causes of hospital gan- grene. The observations of Pouteau, and those of some other practitioners, convincingly prove, that hospital gangrene may be communicated to the most simple wound, or ulcer, in a subject of t e l>est constitution, and breathing the purest air, by merely putting into contact with such wound, or ulcer, sponges, lint, or cliarpie, im- pregnated with the infection of this peculiar dis- ri"' this inoculation is conceived to be "e morc farming, and to take effect the more quickly, in proportion as patients have been more exposed to the influence of such causes, as are themselves capable of producing the disease, and also in proportion as the kind of constitution predisposes to it. Although the contagious nature of hospital gangrene has been generally admitted by all the best informed writers on the subject, the doctrine was not considered by Dr. Trotter as having a good foundation. Modern authors, however, have not joined this latter gentleman, and Dr. J. Thomson, Dr. Hennen, and Mr. Blackadder, all believe, that the disorder is infectious. “ The contagious nature of hospital gangrene (says Professor Thomson) appears to me to be suf- ficiently proved, 1st, By the fact, that it may be communicated by sponges, cliarpie, bandages, and clothing, to persons at a distance from those infected with it. 2dly, By its having been ob- served to attack the slight wounds of surgeons, or their mates, who were employed in dressing- infected persons; and that, even in circum- stances, where the medical men so employed, did not live in the same apartment with the in- fected. 3dly, By our being able often to trace its progress distinctly from a single individual through a succession of patients. 4thly, by its attacking recent wounds, as well as old sores, and tiiat in a short time after they are brought near to a patient affected with the disease. 5thly, By our being able to prevent the progress of the disease in particular situations, by removing the infected person, before the contagion, which his sores emit, has had time to operate. 6thly, By its continuing long in one particular ward of an hospital, or in one particular ship, without ap- pearing in other wards, or ships, if pains be taken to prevent intercourse between the infected and uninfected.” (Lectures on Inflammation, p. 484.) But, although there can be no doubt of the disease spreading partly by its contagious na- ture, it appears to me equally certain, that the number of cases is also often increased by the continued operation of the same causes, which produced the earliest instance of the disorder in any particular hospital. It is alleged, that, when once a patient has taken the infection, he cannot avoid the conse- quences, whatever precautions he mav adopt. Thus, Boyer informs us, that he has seen hos- pital gangrene take place in wounded patients, who, in the hope of escaping this epidemic affec- tion, had quitted the infected hospital, and re- tired to elevated situations, where they breathed the most salubrious air. (See Traite dc Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 322 ) The bad state of the air of a crowded hospital, as Mr. Blackadder observes, is a ready means of accounting for the origin of phagadaena gan- graenosa; but, there are various reasons for con- sidering such explanation not altogether satis- ' factory; and he mentions a case, in which the wound of a soldier was found affected with the disease on his first arrival at an hospital, after having been accidentally detained, with two other wounded comrades, for five or six days, partly in an open building,and partly in a boat, quite expo- sed to stormy weather. (P. 45.) Dr. Hennen likewise nives an account of about thirty fresh- wounded men, in whom hospital gangrene first appeared in their journey from \ ittoria to the jr