414 EMPHYSEMA. pressing out the air in this way, you should find in the other, ns it equally confines the motion.-, by the oppression, that either air, or blood, is of the ribs on both sides, and as every possible accumulating within the cavity of the thorax, so enlargement of the chest becomes necessary for as to oppress not the wounded lung only, which the due admission of the air into the lung, which was of course collapsed and useless from the first, still executes its functions. Under these cir- but the diaphragm, and through the diaphragm cumstances, if the emphysema continues, fund to afreet also the sound lung; then a freer in- its continuance must always denote that the cision must be made, through the skin and wound in the lung is not closed), I should esteem muscles, and a small puncture should be cau- it the best practice to make a small opening into tiously made through the pleura, in order to let the chest, so that the external air mhrht have a out the air, or blood, confined in the thorax.— (John Bell, Op.cit. p. '27?,.) In all these cases, copious and frequently re- peated venesection is generally proper. After a few days, the wound, in the collapsed lung, is closed by the adhesive inflammation, so that the air no longer passes out of it into the cavity of the chest, and the outer wound may therefore be healed. What air is already there is ultimately absorbed, and the lung, expanding in proportion, resumes its original functions. The application of a bandage round the chest is sometimes practised in cases of emphysema, and its utility, when the ribs are broken, has been highly spoken of by Mr. Abernethv. “ Pressure by bandage (says he) not only hinders the air from diffusing itself through the cellular sub- stance, but serves to prevent it from escaping out of the wounded lung, and, of course, facilitates the healing of the wound, which would be pre- vented by the constant transmission of air. Its early application, therefore, will often prevent a very troublesome symptom, whilst, at the same time, by keeping the fractured bones from mo- ton, it greatly lessens the sufferings of the pa- tient.” (Auernelliy’s Surgical Works, Vot. 2, p. 179.) Where emphysema is complicated with a fractured rib, the latter injury is un- questionably a reason in favour of a bandage. But, whether the pressure of the roller will be useful, or hurtful, with respect to the emphysema itself, or the state of the lungs, and respiration, may be questionable. As for its tendency to resist the diffusion of air in the common cellular mem- brane, this circumstance does not appear to me important, because the air, thus diffused, much as it disfigures the patient, is nearly harmless, at least as long as the interlobular texture of the lungs remains uninflated; a danger, also, which no bandaging, as far as I can judge, has any tend- ency to prevent. Neither will a bandage have so much effect in hindering the diffusion of air, as scarifications, with this important additional consideration, that punctures, or small incisions, made over the broken rib, prevent the spreading of the air by letting it escape, while a bandage can only do so by more or less resisting its es- cape from the cavity of the pleura, which mode of operation in some cases would dangerously interfere with the continuation of respiration by the lun" of the opposite side. At the same time, I believe, that where the air extravasated within the injured side of the chest is not in such quan- tity, as to oppress the sound lung, and a rib is broken, a bandage will generally afford great re- lief. Indeed, it is but justice to Mr Abernethy to state, that he does not recommend the em- ployment of a bandage in all cases of emphysema. “ Patients (says he) will not always be able to wear a bandage, when one lung is collapsed, particularly if any previous disease has existed free communication with that cavity; and then the injured lung must remain motionless till its wound is healed, and the mediastinum, will, in every state of the thorax, preserve its natural situation.’’ (Abernethy, Vat. cit. p. 183.) Emphysema has been known to arise from the bursting of a vomica, and ulceration of the sur- face of the lungs; but, the air, which escapes, in this instance, cannot find its way into the cavity of the thorax, because the inflammation, which precedes the abscess and ulceration of the air- cells, closes those which are adjacent, and pro- duces an adhesion of the edges of the vomica, or ulcer, to the inner surface of the chest, so as entirely to separate the two cavities. We are not acquainted with any instance of the sym- ptoms, imputed to the confinement of air in the chest, originating from suppuration and ulcera- tion of the surface of the lungs; but, Palfyn, Dr. Plunter, and the author of the article hm- phijS’unn, in the Encyclopedic Methodique, Par- tie Chirurgicale, have seen cases, in which em- physema originated from abscesses of the lungs, attended with adhesion to the pleura, and ulcera- tions in the situation of such adhesion. In these instances, the pus having made its way through the pleura and intercostal muscles, the air escapes also through the same track, so as to pass into the cellular membrane on the outside of the chest. A violent effort of respiration has, sometimes, produced a certain degree of emphysema, which first makes its appearance about the clavicles, and afterwards spreads over the neck and adjacent parts. The efforts of labour have been known to occasion a similar symptom ; but, no bad conse- quences followed. (Medical Cummun’can.'iis, Vul. 1, /j. 176 ; Bluckden in Med. Facts and. Experi- ments, Vol. 2, and Wilmcr's Ohs. in Surgery, p. 143.) Louis has described an emphysema of this sort, which, on account of its cause, and the indication, which it furnishes to the practitioner, is highly important. This famous surgeon had occasion to remark it in a young girl, who died suffocated, from a bean falling into her windpipe, and he considers it, as a pathognomonic symptom of such an accident, concerning the existence of which it is so essential not to commit any mistake. (See Bronehotaim/.) This emphysema made its ap- pearance on both sides of the neck, above the clavicles, and came on suddenly, on the third day after the accident. The inspection of the body proved, that the lungs and mediastinum were also in an emphysematous state. The retention of the air, confined by the foreign body, pro- duced, says Louis, at each attempt to expire, and, especially, when the violent fits of coughing occurred, a strong propulsion of this fluid to- wards the surface of the lung, into the spongy substance of this viscus. Thence, the air passed into the cellular texture, which unites the surface