FRACTURES. 4G3 and will then, by changing the posture of such limb from an extended one, to one moderately bent, observe the alteration thereby made, in both the just mentioned circumstances, will be satisfied of the truth of what I have said, and of the much greater degree of ease and practica- bility of reduction in the bent, than in the ex- tended position ; that is, in the relaxed, than in the stretched state of the muscles.” Reduction being found impracticable, either by extension or change of posture, Mr. Pott recommends an enlargement of the wound. “ If the bone be broken into several pieces, and any of them be either totally separated, so as to lie loose in the wound, or if they be so loosened and detached, as to render their union highly improbable, all such pieces ought to be taken away ; but they should be removed with all possible gentleness, without pain, violence, or la- ceration, without the risk of hemorrhage, and with as little poking into the wound as possible. If the extremities of the bane be broken into sharp points, which points wound and irritate the sur- rounding parts, they must be removed also. But, the whole of this part of the treatment of a com- pound fracture should be executed with great caution ; and the practitioner should remember, that if the parts surrounding the fracture be vio- lated, that is, be torn, irritated, and so disturbed as to excite great pain, high inflammation, &c. it is exactly the same thing to the patient, and to the event of the case, whether such violence be the necessary consequence of the fracture, or of the unnecessary,' and awkward manner of poking into, and disturbing the wound. The great objects of fear and apprehension in a com- pound fracture, (that is, in the first or early state of it) are, pain, irritation, and inflammation ; these are to be avoided, prevented, and appeased by all possible means, let ever)' thing else be as it may be; and although certain things are always recited, as necessary to be done, such as removal of fragments of bone, of foreign bodies, &c. &c. &c. yet it is always to be understood, that such acts may be performed without pre- judicial or great violence, and without adding at all to the risk or hazard necessarily incurred by the disease. “ Reduction of, or setting a compound frac- ture, is the same as in the simple; that is, the intention in both is the same, viz. by means of a proper degree of extension to obtain as apt a position of the ends of the fracture, with regard to each other, as the nature of the case will ad- mit, and thereby to produce as perfect and as speedy union as possible. “ To repeat in this place what has already been said under the head of Extension would be tedious and unnecessary. If the arguments there tscd for making extension, with the limb so noderatcly bent as to relax the muscles, and take off their power of resistance, have anv force at dl, they must have much more when applied to be present case : if it be allowed to be found ■'cry painful to extend, or to put or to keep >n the stretch, muscles which are not at nil or >ut slightly wounded, and only liable in such ■xtmsion to be pricked and irritated, it is self- •vident that it must be much more so when the amc parts are torn and wounded.” After a few additional observations, in praise of the good effects of relaxing the muscles, Mr. Pott proceeds : — “ The wound dilated, (if necessary) loose pieces removed, (if there were any) and the fracture re- duced in the best possible position, the next thing to be done is to apply a dressing.” When Mr. Pott wrote on this subject, the plan of bringing the edges of the wound together with adhesive plaster, in cases of compound fracture, had not been established; and the advantage of this mode of dressing in the first instance was not duly known. I do not mean the practice of drawing the edges of the wound forcibly together with strips of plaster, nor of encircling and com- pressing the part with the same; but only the method of applying two, or three short pieces of plaster, so as lightly and gently to retain the opposite sides of the wound in contact, and afford them an opportunity of uniting by the first intention. Now, although such attempt will fre- quently fail, on account of the wound being ge- nerally in a contused, irregular, and lacerated state, the chance of success should be taken, because the experiment at all events will occasion no harm, and if it answer, it will change the case at once from a fracture with an open wound to one, which has no external communication, or, as might almost be said, from a compound into a simple fracture. Some of the following directions, therefore, given by Mr. Pott, I con- sider in the present state of surgery as only applicable when the wound has suppurated. “ The dressing, necessary in a compound frac- ture, is of two kinds, viz. that for the wound, and that for the limb. By the former, we mean to maintain a proper opening for the easy and free discharge of gleet, sloughs, matter, extraneous bodies, or fragments of bone, and this in such manner, and by such means, as'shall give the least possible pain or fatigue, shall neither irri- tate by its qualities, nor oppress by its quantity, nor by any means contribute to the detention or lodgment of what ought to be discharged. By the latter, our aim should be the prevention or removal of inflammation, in order, if the habit be good, and all other circumstances fortunate, that the wound may be healed, by what surgeons call the first intention, that is, without suppura- tion or abscess; or, that not being practicable, that gangrene and mortification, or even very large suppuration may be prevented, and such a moderate and kindly degree of it established as may best serve the purpose of a cure. The first therefore, or the dressing for the wound, can consist of nothing better, or indeed so good, as soft dry lint, laid on so lightly as just to absorb the sanies, but neither to distend the wound, or be the smallest impediment or obstruction to the discharge of matter. This lint should be kept clear off the edges, and the whole of it should be covered with a pledget spread with a soft easy digestive. The times of dressing must be deter- mined by the nature of the case; if the dis- charge be small or moderate, once in twenty- four hours will be sufficient; but if it be large, more frequent dressing will be necessary, as well to prevent offence, as to remedy the inconveni- ences arising from a great discharge of an irri- tating sharp sanies.