C/ESAliEAN OPERATION. >261 the couvex-edgcd bistoury' to the extent ot iit least six inches. The place, and direction of this incision, differ with dillerent operators. In the most ancient method, it was customary to make the incision between the outer edge of the rectus muscle, and a line, drawn from the an- terior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the junction of the bone of the first rib with its cartilage. This cut was begun a little below the umbilicus, and was continued downward as far as : an inch above the pubes. After the integuments uad been divided, the muscles, aponeuroses, and peritoneum were cut, and the uterus cautiously opened. The left index finger was then in- troduced into this viscus, the wound of which f. was dilated by means of the probe-pointed bis- ; .oury. This manner of operating is subject to great nconveniences. The place, where the incision - s made, is the situation of muscles, the fibres of vhich have a different direction, and, on con- racting, separate the edges of the wound, and nake it gape. The considerable blood vessels, vhich ramify there, may be the source of peril- ous bleeding. The bowels can protrude in that itiiation more readily, than anywhere else. rVhen the position of the uterus is oblique, and when, consequently, the edges of this viscus are urned forward and backward, and its surfaces to le right and left, the incision will be made in ne of the lateral portions of the uterus, where the ranks of its blood-vessels are known to be si- uted, and sometimes even the Fallopian tube 3 id ovary may be cut. The fibres of the uterus r re cut transversely, so that the edges of the ill- usion are apt to gape, instead of being in con- ,ct. This last circumstance may the more rea- dy permit the lochia to escape into the abdomen, lasmuch as the uterus is cut nearly' through its hole length, and there is no cavity, in which they in accumulate, in order to be discharged through ,e cervix of that organ. The linea alba has been frequently considered ie most eligible place for making the incision, s Sabatier informs us, it was the method adopt- by Soleyres and Deleurye, and it has the re- •mmciulation of Baudeloque, because there are ■wer parts to be cut, and, when the uterus is ex- sed, an incision, parallel to its principal fibres, ray be made in its middle part. Soleyres thought iat this plan of operating originated with Plat- t r and Guerin, a surgeon at Crepi cn Valois. I :atner says; Incidanlur juita lineum album, Vgd majure qua: ab umbilico ad ossa pubis J'ere *tcendit, lurn abdominis musculi, turn peritonevum, tandem vitandum ne vialetur arteria cpigas- ■■II.- Guerin, in his case, made an incision, six hes long, which began a little above the um- cus, and extended to within an inch and a half the pubes. He afterwards divided the fat, > iscles, and peritoneum, in order to get at the r’rus, the anterior part of which was opened, i wound being made rather in the body, than ■ fundus of that viscus. Deleurye will not ud- that these writers actually divided the linea a, because they speak of having cut muscles, ich in reality do not exist in that situation ; 1 he attributes the honour of the invention to roquier, a surgeon of Lisle, in Flanders; but, : method was known to Maurieeau, as we may convinced of by the following passage, ex- tracted from the chapter, in which he treats of the Ctesarean Operation, Lit pluparl veu'ent qu’on incise an cute gauche du ventre ; mais I'ou- verture sera mieux an milieu entre les muscles droits, car il n y a en ce lieu, (pic les tegumens ct les muscles a cmiper.” Lauverjat, who has made this remark, and cited the Latin edition of Mau- riceau, page 2-17, also observes, that the incision in the linea alba was practised by a contemporary of La Motte, a circumstance which Sabatier has not been able to ascertain. (Medccine Operatnire, Tom. 1.) The following would be the proper manner of operating in the linea alba. The ope- rator should first divide the integuments perpen- dicularly, so as to expose the linea alba, making the wound about six inches long. An opening should then be carefully' made through the apo- neurosis, into the abdomen, either at the upper, or lower part, of the linea alba in view. A curved bistoury is then to be introduced into the open- ing, and the tendon and peritoneum cut from within outward, as far as the extent of the wound in the integuments. The latter cut should be cautiously made, with the crooked bistoury, guid- ed by' the forefinger of the left hand, lest any of the intestines be accidentally injured. The uterus must next be carefully opened, making an incision in it, of the same length, as the prece- ding wound. The fetus is to be taken out through the wound, and then the placenta and membranes. In this way, M. Artiste lately operated, so as to save both mother and child. (See Edinb. Med. 6; Surg. Jaurn. Vol. 4,p. 178.) This mode of operating, as Sabatier observes, gives more hopes of success, than the plan first described; but he argues, that such hopes have not been realized by experience. Though the operation may'have been more easy', he contends, that the edges of the wound in the skin, and those of the incision in the uterus, have had no tend- ency' to remain in a state of proximity to each other, because the linea alba is the point, on which all the large muscles of the abdomen prin- cipally act, and because the contraction of the uterus invariably takes place from above down- wards. Sabatier alleges, that the wound in this viscus has been found to incline to one of its sides, for the same reasons, as occur, in operating at one of the sides of the abdomen. He also states, that the incision has been concealed under the integuments of the upper part of the pubes, and that the presence of the bladder hinders the wound from being carried sufficiently far down. Perhaps,.says he, a part of these inconveniences, which depend upon the contraction of the uterus, and the return of this organ to its natural state, might be uvoided, by extending the incision to its highest part. Baudeloque has advised this plan, with a view of preventing the fatal extra- vasations in the abdomen, which frequently' fol- low tliis operation. Sabatier, however, has doubts, whether, in operating in the linea alba, the wound can be carried high enough. Besides, he main- tains, that this precaution would not prevent the wound from gaping, nor the greater tendency ot the lochia to be extravusated in the abdomen, than to accumulate in the uterus, and be discharged through the os tinea!. (Mcdeciue Opfratoirc, Tam. 1, p. 274-275.) In this country, (where, indeed, the Caesarean Operation has proved most unsuccessful) the.