832 N/KVUS. in the new form of gas, was alleged to have the very important quality of neutralizing putrid miasmata. The gas is extricated from common salt, by means of sulphuric acid. In this way, it is often employed in hospitals as a mode of preventing and obviating infection. The use of muriatic acid, as an application to certain cases of sloughing, and phagedoena, has been explained in the articles Hospital Gan- grene, and Mortification. MY DKI'ASIS. (from ^larx, to abound in moisture.) A preternatural dilatation of the pupil. ylsVUS. (Congenita; Notce; Envies; Mutter-maul; Mother-spots, dpc.) A mole, or congenital mark, or excrescence of the skin. Naevi materni signify the little spots, ex- crescences, or swellings, with which many children are born. Some of them (says Dr. Bateman) are merely superficial, or stain-like spots, and appear to consist of a partial thickening of the rete mucosum, sometimes of a yellow, or yel- lowish brown, sometimes of a blueish, livid, or nearly black colour. To these the term spilus has been more particularly appropriated. Others again exhibit various degrees of thickening, ele- vation, and altered structure of the skin itself, and consist of clusters of enlarged and contorted veins, freely anastomosing, and forming little sacs of blood. These are sometimes spread more or less extensively over the surface, occa- sionally covering even the whole of an extre- mity, or one half of the trunk of the body ; and sometimes they are elevated into prominences of various form and magnitude. Occasionally, these marks are nearly of the usual colour of the skin ; but most commonly they are of a purplish red colour, of varying degrees of intensity; such as the presence of a considerable collection of blood-vessels, situated near the surface, and co- vered with a thin cuticle, naturally occasions. (See Bateman's Practical Synopsis of Cutane- ous Diseases, p. 824, Edit. 4.) When a nae- vus is of a dark red colour, its intensity is gene- rally augmented by every thing which tends to accelerate the circulation of the blood. Fits of anger, hot weather, fevers, and the period of menstruation, in particular, are observed to be attended with an increased turgescence and dis- coloration of the part affected. Indeed the ex- crescence sometimes bursts, and pours out a dangerous quantity of blood, and in females it has been known to become the seat of a regular menstrual discharge. (Boyer, Traitd dcs Ma- ladies Chir. T. 2, p. 277 ; and John Bell's Principles, Discourse ,9.) Some naevi, espe- cially those usually called moles, frequently have long, irregular hairs growing upon them; while the surface of others is streaked, and even gra- nulated. Such as appear in the form of a mere red, purplish stain, have been absurdly supposed to arise from a desire for claret, or some other wine of that colour, entertained by the mother of the patient during her pregnancy. The granu- lated naevi have been compared with raspberries, strawberries, mulberries,, &c. for which the mo- ther’s longing is ascribed by the vulgar as a cause. The truth is, however, that this doc- trine, imputing the origin of naevi to fancies of the mother, is neither consistent with experience nor sound physiology. The causes (as Callisan observes) “ potius autem in evolutione prirnorurn rlaminum, a naturae solita via aberrante, uti in aliis rebus monstrosis quaerendae erunt.” (Syst. Chir. Holdiernce, Vol. 2, p. 201.) From what has been said, then, it appears that certain naevi are merely cutaneous spots, of a red, violet, or purplish colour, of greater or lesser extent, and with scarcely any perceptible eleva- tion. They are an organic malformation of the skin, the natural texture of which does not exist, but has substituted for it a plexus of vessels, not endued with the natural sensibility of the cutis itself. These naevi generally continue stationary during life, and may be regarded rather as a de- formity than a disease. (Lassus, Pathologic Chir. Tom. 1, p. 477.) Other naevi are either of the same nature as the disease, well known by the name of the aneurism by anastomosis, or bear a considerable resemblance to it They are sometimes of great size ; and their shape is sub- ject to much variety. They are soft, and indo- lent, and of a violet, or dark red colour. The skin which covers them is very thin, and when they are opened, their structure is like that of a spleen, whose blood-vessels are varicose. Some are covered with a delicate white skin, and do not increase with age. Others are more dis- posed to grow large. These tumors frequently occur in the skin of the face, and in other parts of the integuments, on the inside of the labia pudendi, and cheeks, and in the substance of the upper and lower lip, where they sometimes form a kind of elongation, attended with great dis- figurement. Naevi of this kind, so situated in new-born infants, may produce a serious obsta- cle to the action of sucking. M. A. Severinus has particularly described them under the appel- lation of “ tubereulum atro-cruentum lahii in- ferioris.” (De Ahsccssunm natura, Cap. 29, p. 808.) The naevi, which form in the subcutaneous cellular substance, and were named by Petit “ loupes variqueuses,” ((Euvres Posthumcs, Tom. 1, p. 276.) are also of the same nature as the aneurism by anastomosis. In time, they attain a very large size. Mr. Latta says, lie once saw in a child, two years old, a tumor of this kind, weighing fourteen ounces, which at the time of birth was only equal in size to a large bean. During the first year, it did not enlarge much ; but it afterwards grew rapidly to the size already specified. (System of Surgery, Vol. 2, Chap. 22.) Lassus lias even seen a tumor of this description as large as a man’s