in Chir. Wahrnehmungen, 1 B. p. 832; Girar« I commended putting the hand affected upon a table, 51‘2 GAN swelling, or doing any thing, which is likely to occasion sloughing or ulceration of the disease. Ganglions may be cured by pressure, of such force, as to rupture the cyst, and some authors have re- and then striking the ganglion several times with the fist, or a mallet. The cyst of a recent gan- glion may also be burst, by'compressingit strongly with the thumbs, with or without the intervention ot a piece of money; the fluid is effused into the adjacent cellular membrane; and, pressure being now employed, the opposite sides of the cavity become united by the adhesive inflammation, and the recurrence of the disease is prevented. (See L’ Encyclopedic Mdihodique, Partie Chir. art. Ganglim; Lassus, Pathologie Chir. T. 1, p. 400, cj'-c.; Leveilld, Nouvelle Doctrine Chir. T. 3, p. 7.) In almost every instance, a ganglion may be cured by pressureand friction, and, if not actually cured, the disease may be rendered so bearable by these means, that few patients would choose to have the tumor cut out. Under this plan, the swelling becomes very much diminished, and, should it enlarge again, the mode of relief is so simple, and the case so little troublesome, that patients generally content themselves with every now and then wearing a piece of lead on the part. But when ganglions resist all attempts to dis- perse, or palliate them; when they become ex- tremely inconvenient, either by obstructing the functions of a joint, or causing pain ; they should be carefully dissected out, by first making a lon- gitudinal incision in the skin covering them, then separating the cyst on every side from the contiguous parts, and lastly cutting ever}' par- ticle of it oft’ the subjacent tendon or fascia. The greatest care must be taken, not to make any opening in the cyst, so as to let out its contents, and make it collapse; a circumstance, which would render the dissection of it entirely out much more difficult. The operation being accomplished, the skin is to be brought together with sticking plaster, and a compress placed over the situation of the tumor, with a view of healing the wound and the cavity by adhesion. When the ganglion has burst, or is ulcerated, it is best to remove the diseased skin, together with the cyst, and of course the incision must be oval, or circular, as may seem most convenient. The grand object is not to allow any particle of the cyst to remain behind, as it would be very likely to throw out a fungus, and prevent a cure. In Warner’s Cases of Surgery is an account, of two considerable ganglions, which this gentleman, in imitation of’Celsus and PaulusiEgineta, thought it right to extirpate. These had become adherent to the tendons of the fingers. In the operation, he was obliged to cut the transverse ligament of the wrist, and the patients, who before could not shut their hands, nor close their fingers, per- fectly regained the use of these parts. Mr. Gooch relates a case of the same kind, which had been occasioned bv a violent bruise, three, or four, years before. The tumor reached from the wrist to the middle of the hand, and created a great deal of pain. Mr. Gooch extirpated it, and then restored the position of the hand, and free motion of the joint, by the use of emollient applications, and suitable pressure, made with a machine constructed for the purpose. Other GAS cases confirming the safety of cutting out gam glions, are recorded in the Ijondon Medical Jourmt Jor 1787, ]>. 154 ; by Eller, in M6m. dc l'Acad| des Sciences de Berlin, T. 2, ami. 1746'; Sckmucki i Lupiologie. The ganglions, which occur just below tb« knee, I have seen cured by a little blister, applied over them, and kept open with the savin cerate* Camphorated blisters, indeed, have been pro. posed as a means of dispersing other ganglions* (Jaeger, Chir. Cautelen, 2 B.) For information, relative to ganglions, con- sult Warner’s Cases in Surgery. Chirurgicat Works of B. Gooch, Vol. 2, p. 37 G. Heister’4 Surgery. B. Ball's Surgery. Latta’s System om Surgery. L'Encyclopedic MAthodiyue, Partial Chir. art. Ganglion. liichter, Anfangsgr. dem Wundarzn. B. 1. Lassus, Pathologie Chir. T. ll P- 399 ; Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 17, p. 311. GANGRENE, (from ycavoo, to feed upon.’ An incipient mortification, so named from itsj eating away the flesh. Authors have generally distinguished mor- tification into two stages ; the first, or incipienr one, they name gangrene, which is attended with a sudden diminution of pain in the place affected 31 a livid discoloration of the part, which from being yellowish, becomes of a greenish hue; n| detachment of the cuticle, under which a turbid fluid is effused; lastly, the swelling, tension, and hardness, of the previous inflammation, sub-M side, and, on touching the part, a crepitus m perceptible, owing to the generation of air in tha gangrenous parts. Such is the state, to which the term gangrcnct is applied. When the part has become quite cold, black- fibrous, incapable of moving, and destitute of allj feeling, circulation, and life; this is the second! stage of mortification, termed sphacelus. Gan4 grene, however, is frequently used synonymously!! with the word mortification. (See Morti/iaition.)fj GASTROCELE. (from the stomach,, and saiXu, a tumor.) A hernia of the stomach. GASTRORAPHIA, or gastroraphe. (from yxij-7|s, the belly, and caXn, a suture.) As suture of the belly, or some of its contents. Although the term gastroraphe, in strictness* of etymology, signifies no more, than sewing upH any wound of the belly, yet Mr. S. Sharp in-H forms us, that, in his time, the word implied, that! the wound of the abdomen was complicated with another of the bowels. The moderns, I think, seem to limit the mean-! ing of the word to the operation of sewing up a* wound in the parietes of the abdomen. What was formerly meant by gastroraphe! could scarcely ever be practised, because the! symptoms laid down for distinguishing when atiB intestine is wounded, do not with any certainty I determine in what particular part it is wounded;! which want of information, makes it absurd to I open the abdomen in order to get at it. Hence, the operation of stitching the bowels can only take place, when they fall out of the abdomen, and when we can see where the wound is situated. And, indeed, even in these circumstances, the employment of sutures is a practice, the propnel' of which is questionable, ns will be further con- sidered in I be article Humid.'. !