1017 TESTICLE. days; ami. if necessary, strict antiphlogistic atnient pursued. 1'ENT. A roll of lint for dilating openings, uses. &c. rEREBELLA. (dim. of terebra, a perfo- Uo instrument.) A trepan, or instrument for ing out circular portions of the skull. A phine. . L'EREBRA. (from rtasui, to bore,) A ian, or trephine. Also an instrument called jrforator. fESTICLE, DISEASES OF. For an aunt of many of these affections, I must refer distinct articles in this Dictionary; for in- ice, Cirsaccle, Fungus ITicmatodes, Hernia morales, Hcematoccle, Hydrocele. 4 c. Hr. Pott defines sarcoccle to be a disease of body of the testicle, and, as the term implies, insists, in general, in such an alteration, de in the structure of that organ, as produces •semblance to a hard, fleshy substance, instead that fine, soft, vascular texture, which it na- .lly presents. “ Sarcoccle (says Callisen) is ime applied to every chronic swelling of the icle, attended with a total, or partial, conver- . of the part into an heterogeneous substance.” sterna Chirurgice Hodienice, Pars 2, p. .) According to these definitions, sarcocele >mes a term admitting of almost general ap- ltion to the morbid affections of the testicle, .e most of them are attended (with indura- and swelling of the part. In fact, we find the old writers, and a great many of the ems, call all diseased indurations and ai- lments of the testicle sarcocelcs, whether the rder be a simple, chronic, indolent tumor, •companied with any symptoms of specific ase, or malignancy, or whether it be a scro- lous, or, what is still more different and more ms, a truly scirrhous disorder of the organ, n the fungus haematodes of the testicle was, 1 lately, often termed sarcocele. 'hat this vague method of employing the d sarcocele can be attended with no advan- but, on the contrary, must have a tendency destroy all useful discrimination, is a pro- tion, the truth of which is self-evident. I well aware, that Mr. Pott, and many late ers, set out with an idea that every sarcocele a propensity to change into scirrhus, and al carcinoma, and, therefore, the latter states tonsidered by these authors only as stages of tame disease. Indeed, it is universally ad- ed by the best and most experienced ob- srs, that a common indolent sarcocele, a le fleshy enlargement of the testicle, may .igeinto the peculiar malignant disease, cailed F# hus, or cancer. But, yet, it is by no means | -ed, that all the diseases, which are compre- I led under the name of sarcocele, are accom- P jd with a risk of their assuming the nature irrhus and cancer; for nothing can be more un, than that the enlargement of the testi— 3 produced by fungus hacmatodes, is, from the to the last, always of one character, and never change into ordinary scirrhus, or •noma. Neither do indolent scrophulous lings of this organ ever undergo such an ation as to deserve the epithets of scirrhous I '"acetous. In opposition to the belief of I Hunter, (see his Treatise on the Venereal Disease, p. 59), some surgeons still imagine, that there is really one kind of chronic enlarge- ment of the testicle, arising from a venereal cause. (Roux Parallcle de la Chirurgic An- gloisc, &<•. p. 305. llichcraud, Nosograpliic Chir. T.‘\,p. 300, Edit. A.) Now this also has usually been called a sarcocele; it was so named by Pott himself, and if there be such a case, no one will suppose that it, or any other form of lues venerea, is capable of changing into a true scirrhous or cancerous disease. Perhaps, therefore, it might be more consistent and ad- vantageous to restrict the appellation of sarcoccle to an indolent fleshy enlargement of the testicle, unaccompanied with any present symptoms of malignancy, or any marks of its being the effect of a specific disease; and as soon as the case evinces another character, the name should correspond with the particular nature of the disease. We need not here enter into a minute account of the various sarcomatous diseases, to which the testicle is subject; for, they have no peculiarity in them, except what depends upon their situ- ation, and the general characters of the different species of sarcoma will be considered in a future article. (See Tumor.) The testicle is especially liable to three kinds of sarcoma, which have been named, by Mr. Abernethy, the common vascu- lar, the cystic, and the medullary. The latter case, however, which is often called soft cancer of the testicle, I shall describe in the present article, in order that the reader may judge whether there is any material difference between this case and another distemper to which the testicle is subject. (See Fungus Hcematodcs.) Sometimes the testicle is converted into a truly scrojjualous mass. It is increased in size, and when cut into, a whitish, or yellowish, coagulated matter is discovered, mixed with pus. The complaint is not attended with so much pain, and induration, as a scirrhous disorder of the testicle; nor does it produce any unfavorable state of the health. As Dr. Baillie observes, the testicle is often found converted into a hard mass, of a brownish colour, and generally intersected with membranes. Sometimes, there are cells in the tumor, which are filled with a sanious fluid. (Morbid Ana- tomy, <£c. p. 352, 353, Edit. 2.) This is the truly scirrhous testicle, which is attended with great hardness, severe pains darting along the spermatic chord to the loins, and an unequal knotty feel. In general the health becomes im- paired. To use Mr. Pott’s words, sometimes the fury of the disease brooks no restraint; but, making its way through all the membranes, which envelope the testicle, it either produces a large, foul, stinking, phagedenic, ulcer, with hard edges, or it thrusts forth a painful gleeting fungus, sub- ject to frequent hemorrhage. (Pott's Chirurgi- cal Works, Vol. 2, p. 390, Edit. 1808 ) These latter states of the disease are denominated can- cer of the testicle. Sooner, or later, the scirrhous induration ex- tends from the epididymis, upward along the spermatic chord, even within the abdominal ring. In the latter circumstance, the lymphatic glands in the groin usually become diseased ; and this extension of mischief, together with the impos- sibility of removing the whole of the diseased