972 SCItOPHULA. bandages, when the fingers and toes are affected with strumous disease. [P. 145.) Whoever compares the practice of Mr. White in administering calomel, occasional purga- tives, the decoctum Lusitanicum sarsaparilla, &c. with the blue-pill, sarsaparilla, and laxative treatment of the present day, will perceive no very material difference between them, especially when the stress, which Mr. White laid upon at- tention to diet, clothing, &c. is taken into the account. Mr. Lloyd, who has detailed Mr. Abernethy’s practice in scrophula, lays it down as an axiom, that “ the disease is only to be cured by avoiding all sources of irritation, and restoring the natural and healthy functions of the digestive organs.” [P. 48.) By sources of irritation, Mr. Lloyd means exciting causes; the advice is therefore excellent, as far as it can be followed, or such causes are decidedly known. The restoration of the functions of the digestive organs is also a thing worth aiming at, and the only difference in my views from those of Mr. Lloyd is, that, as I look upon the disorder of the digestive organs to be in general only a com- plication, or effect of the scrophulous disease, ulcer, abscess, diseased joint, &c. and not the exciting cause, the treatment, when beneficial, becoming so only on the principle of improving the general health, by the removal or diminution of one of the most hurtful consequences of the original disease. It is hardly necessary to in- form the profession, that the treatment, described by Mr. Lloyd, in addition to the usual advice about diet, clothing, the avoidance of damp and cold, and the utility of good air, exercise, &c. con- sists in giving the patient five grains of the pil. hydrarg. every night, and half a pint of decoct, sarsap. c. twice a day And, if at a certain hour of the day, there has been no motion, recourse is had to opening medicines. This plan is pur- sued, till the bowels become regular ; and then, with the view of preventing a relapse of the bowels into their former state, Mr. Lloyd con- tinues the exhibition of alterative doses of mer- cury for an indefinite time, the preference being given to the compound calomel pill, in doses of five grains every night. In children, the practice is exactly like that of Mr. White, viz. small doses of calomel with purgatives. When acidity prevails in the stomach, small doses of soda are commended; and when the stomach is weak, ■with loss of appetite, cinchona, steel, and mineral acids. A full diet, with porter and wine, is dis- approved of, and, as already stated, not much ■confidence is placed in sea-bathing. (Lloyd on Scrophula, p. 38.) Crawford, Pinel, and others, have tried the muriated barytes, as a rem< dy, in scrophulous cases. [Mccl. Communications, Vol. 2. Nosogr. Philosophise, Vol. ‘2, p. 238.) It has the re- commendation of the celebrated Hufeland. Mr. Burns says, that the muriate of barytes has no effect on diseased glands; but, that it is occa- sionally serviceable in scrophulous ulceration, ■though, he adds, that it deserves little de- pendence. [Dissert, on Injlavi. Vol. 2, p. 372.) This gentleman recommends the following for- mula : R,. Terr® Ponder. Salit. Chryst. gr. x. An. Font. An. Cassia;, utriusque, Jiij. Syrup. gradually increased to such quantity, as the stomach can bear without sickness. At present, few practitioners have any faith in the antiscro- phulous virtues of the muriate of barytes; and, as Dr. Thomson remarks, it has had a much shorter-lived reputation, than sea-water, or its successor the muriate of lime. (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 196.) Fourcroy proposed trying the muriate of lime; but, its efficacy is very doubtful, and inconsider- 1 able. “ Professor Thomson (says Mr. llussell) ■ has favoured me with the following observations on the effects of muriate of lime. He employed muriate of lime in various cases of scrophula, without having derived benefit from it in a single instance. Some patients, indeed, he ad- mits, got well, while under a course of muriate of lime; but then he had no reason to ascribe the cure to the effect of the medicine. In other cases, on the contrary, the muriate of lime pro- duced severe sickness and oppression at the stomach, and the patients got daily worse, till the muriate of lime was intermitted, and other medicines employed. The relief, experienced from the intermission of the muriate of lime, left no doubt, with regard to the injurious effects, which the use of it had produced; and from ex- tensive experience and accurate observation on the subject, Professor Thomson is satisfied, that muriate of lime is attended with prejudicial effects in many cases of scrophula.” (See Russell's Treatise on Scrophula.) Since the publication of the last edition of this Dictionary, I have seen the muriate of lime given in several cases of scrophula; but, without any beneficial effect on the disease. How long the muriate of lime will be permitted to enjoy its present fame, Dr. Thomson will not venture to say; but from what he has seen of its use, he imagines, its re- putation will only last, till some other new remedy is proposed by those, who are still san- guine in their hopes of discovering a specific for scrophula. (Lectures, 6‘c. p. 196.) Iron, given either alone, or joined with the fixed, or volatile alkali, also deserves very little confidence. Burnt sponge, millipedes, and sulphate of potassa, have all been extensively tried; the first of these is, in my opinion, sometimes usqful in diminishing enlarged scrophulous glands; and that it has this effect on bronchoeeles, is indisputable. The Marischal de Rougeres employed a re- medy, composed of iron filings, muriate of am- monia, subcarbonate of potassa, Ac. [Journ. de Med. tom. 40, p. 219.) Several narcotics have been tried, such as opium, hyoscyamus, the solanum dulcamara* Ac.; but, though their virtues against scrophula have been sometimes cried up very highly, the moderns have lost all faith in them. The atten- tion of the public to the effects of cicuta, in cases of cancer and scrophula, was first particularly excited by the accounts of its virtues published by Baron Stork. Fothergill also praises cicuta, and, perhaps, it is as good an internal medicine as can be tried; but, it is far from being generally efficacious. It is highly deserving of recommendation for irritable scrophulous ulcers. There is now not the least doubt, however, that the statements of