556 HARE. LIP. chord, and then perform castration, though Mr. Pott advises this plan, in case the bleeding branch cannot be tied singly. Discutient applications, and an occasional purge, will almost always dis- perse the swelling; and if not, opening it, taking out the blood, applying cold, or, if necessary, fdling the cavity with lint, and using com- pression, would be according to my humble judgment the most judicious treatment. A case, precisely of the latter kind, is not very common, yet Mr. Pott has not omitted it, as one of the forms of haematocele: but, why he has not taken notice of the most frequent of all the varieties of this disease, I am at a Joss to con- jecture ; I mean, the extravasation of blood in the loose cellular membrane of the scrotum from blows on the part, and sometimes from lithotomy, castration, &c. quite unconnected with any rup- ture of the spermatic veins. These are the cases, which are mostly met with in practice. I have seen them followed by suppuration; but, in ge- neral, the effused blood is gradually absorbed, with the aid of discutient applications, leeches, fomentations, poultices, and saline purges. A surgeon should generally be reluctant to lay open the tumor, as, in many instances, sloughing and very severe symptoms have been the result. Celsus and Paulns JEgineta are the best of the old writers on luematnctle. For modern informa- tion, consult. Pott’s Chir. Works, Vol. 2. 13. Beil on hydrocele. Flojitni, Collezione d’ Osservazioni, fyc. T. 2; Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 6; Richcrand, Nusographie Chir. T. 4; Osiander, in Arnemunn’s Magazin fiir die Wun- darzn. 1 B. p. 355,—the pudent (lied after an opening had been made in the swelling. Follet, in Journ. de Med. continue, Vol. 13, p. 422,—a case from contusion, cured by an incision. Harris in Mem. of Land. Med. Society, Vol. 5. I-IARE-LIP. (Labia Lefarina.) A fissure, or perpendicular division of one or both lips. The term has arisen from the fancied resemblance of the part to the upper lip of a hare. Occasionally the'fissure is more or less oblique. In general, it is directly below the septum of the nose; but, sometimes, it corresponds to one of the nostrils. The two portions of the lip are generally move- able, and not adherent to the alveolary process ; in less common cases, they are closely attached to the forepart of the jaw. Children are frequently born with this kind of malformation, which is called a natural hare-lip, while that which is produced by a wound is named accidental. Sometimes the portions of the lip, which ought to be united, have a con- siderable interspace between them; while, in either instances, they are not much apart. The cleft is occasionally double, a little lobe, or small portion of the lip, being situated between the two lissures. The fissure commonly afTects only the lip itself, and usually the upper one. In many cases, how- ever, it extends along the bones and soft parts forming the palate, even as far as the uvula; and sometimes those bones are entirely wanting. A hare-lip, in its least degree, occasions con- siderable deformity; and when more marked, it frequently hinders infants' from sucking, and makes it indispensable tp nourish them by other means. When the lower lip alone is affected, which is rare as a malformation, the child can neither retain its saliva, nor learn to speak, ex- cept with the greatest impediment. The constant escape of the saliva, besides being an annoyance, is found to be detrimental to the health ; for its loss impairs the digestive functions, the patient becomes emaciated, and'bven death would some- times ensue, if the incessant discharge of so necessary a fluid in the animal economy were not prevented. Thus, a lady, who was in this state, consulted Tronchin, who immediately saw the cause of her indisposition, and recommended the fissure in the lip to be united; the operation was done, and the dyspeptic symptoms then ceased. And, when the fissure pervades the palate, the patient not only articulates very im- perfectly, but cannot masticate, nor swallow, ex- cept with great difficulty, on account of the food readily getting up into the nose. An early removal of the deformity must ob- viously be very desirable; but, as it cannot be accomplished without an operation, attended with some degree of pain, Dionis, Garengeot, and others, advise waiting till the child is four or five years old, on the supposition, that, at an earlier age, the child’s agitations and cries would render the operation impracticable, or derange all the proceedings taken to ensure its success. It is plain, however, that such reasons are not of great weight. A child, four or five years old, and, very often, even one eight or ten years of age, is more difficult to manage, than an infant only a few months old. Every child of the above age has a thousand times more dread of the pain, than of the deformity, or of the inconveniences of the complaint, to which he is habituated; while an infant of tender years fears nothing, and only- feels the pain of the moment. A more rational objection is the liability of in- fants to convulsions after operations, and this has induced many excellent surgeons of the present day to advise postponing the cure of the hare lip, till the child is about two years old. Perhaps, however, this apprehension does not vindicate quite so much dela)T. Mr. Sharp observes, “ there are many lips, where the loss of substance is so great, that the edges of the fissure cannot be brought together, or, at best, where they can but just touch; in which case, ;t need not be advised to forbear the attempt; it is likewise forbid in young children, and with reason, if they suck; but otherwise it may be undertaken with great safety, and even with more probability of success, than in others that are older.” (Operations in Surgery, chap. 34.) Le Dran performed the operation on children of all ages, even on those at the breast. B. Bell did it with success on an infant only three months old. Muys advises it to be undertaken as soon as the child is six months old. Roonhuvsen operated on children ten weeks after their birth, and all his contemporaries have praised his sin- gular dexterity and success. As an essential step to the success of the operation, the latter surgeon recommended hindering the children from sleeping a certain length of time before it was undertaken, in order that they might fall asleep immediately afterwards; and with the same view, opiates have been prescribed. Putting out of consideration the partial success, which has attended the use of blistering plaster