MERCURY. C05 proportion to the effects of mercury on some particular part. If it is given in very small quantities, ami increased gradually, so as to steal insensibly on the constitution, a vas.t quantity at a time may at length be used, without any visible el lee t at ail. (Hunter, p. f41.) These circumstances being known, mercury becomes a much more efficacious, manageable, and safe medicine, than it was formerly thought to be; but, unluckily, its visible effects upon the mouth and the intestines are sometimes much more violent, than its general effect upon the constitution at large. These parts must there- fore not be stimulated so quickly, as to binder the necessary quantity of mercury from being used. The constitution, or parts, are more suscepti- ble of mercury at first, than afterwards. II the mouth is made sore, and allowed to recover, a much greater quantity may be thrown in, a second time, before the same soreness is pro- duced. However, anomalous cases occur, in which, from unknown causes, mercury cannot at one time be made to produce any visible effects; but, afterwards, the mouth and intestines are all at once affected. (Hunter, p. 342.) Mercury occasionally attacks the bowels, -and causes violent purging, even of blood. This effect is remedied by discontinuing the use of the medicine, and exhibiting opium. At other times, it is suddenly determined to the mouth, and pro- duces inflammation, ulceration, and an excessive flow of saliva. To obtain relief in this circum- stance, purgatives, nitre, sulphur, gum-arabic, lime-water, camphor, bark, the sulphuret of pot- ash, blisters, &c. have been advised. Mr. Pearson, however, does not seem to place much confidence in the efficacy of such means, and the mercury being discontinued for a time, he recommends the patient to be freely exposed to a dry cold air, with the occasional use of cathartics, peruvian bark, and mineral acids, ami the assiduous appli- cation of astringent gargles. “ The most ma- terial objection, (says Mr. Pearson,) which I foresee against the method of treatment I have recommended, is the hazard, to which the patient will be exposed, of having the saliva suddenly checked, and of suffering some other disease in consequence of it. “ That die hasty suppression of a ptyalism may be followed by serious inconveniences, has been proved by Dr. Silvester, {Med. Obs. and Inq. Vol. 3.) who published tiie cases of three persons, who had been under his own care; two of whom were afflicted with violent pains; and the third scarcely retained any food in her sto- mach for the space of three months. I have seen not only pains, but even general convul- sions produced from the same cause. But, this singular kind of metastasis of the mercurial irri- tation does not appear to me to owe its appear- ance to simple exposure to cold and dry air ; be- cause, I have known it occur in different forms, where patients continued to breathe a warm at- mosphere, but used a bath, the water of which was not sufficiently heated. Cold liquids, taken in a large quantity into the stomach, or exposure of the body to cold and moisture, will also prove extremely injurious to those, who are fully under the influence of mercury ; whereas breathing a cool air, while the body is properly covered with apparel, has certainly no tendency to produce any distressing, or dangerous consequences. “ If, however, a suppression of the ptyalism should he occasioned bv any act of indiscretion, the remedy is easy and certain ; it consists only in the quick introduction of mercury into the body, so as to produce a soreness of the gums, with the occasional use of a hot hath/’ {Pear- son on the EJfcit of various Articles in the Cure of Lucs Venerea, Edit. 2, p. 163, 164.) Mercury, when it falls on the mouth, pro- duces, in many constitutions, violent inflamma- tion, which sometimes terminates in mortification. In these habits, great caution is necessary. The ordinary operation of mercury does not perma- nently injure the constitution ; but, occasionally, the impairment is very material; mercury may even produce local disease, and retard the cure of chancres, buboes, and certain effects of the lues venerea, after the poison has been destroyed. {Hunter, p. 342.) From mercury occasionally acting on the sys- tem, as a poison, quite unconnected with its agency as a remedy, and neither proportionate to the inflammation of the mouth, nor the actual quantity of the mineral absorbed, Mr. Pearson noticed that one, ort.'o patients in general died suddenly every year in the Lock Hospital. The morbid state of the system, which tends to the fatal event, during a mercurial course, is named by Mr. Pearson crcthismus, and is characterized by great depression of strength, a sense of anx- iety about the pnecordia, irregular action of the heart, frequent sighing, trembling, a small, quick, and sometimes an intermitting pulse, occasional vomiting, a pale contracted countenance, a sense of coldness; but the tongue is seldom furred, and neither the vital, nor natural functions are much disordered. They, who die suddenly of the mercurial erethismus, have frequently been making some little exertion just before. To prevent the dangerous consequences of this state of the system, the use of mercury must be dis- continued, whatever may be the stage, extent, or violence of the venereal symptoms. The pa- tient should be directed to expose himself freely to a dry and cool air, in such a manner, as shall be attended with the least fatigue, and be should have a generous diet. In this manner, patients often recover sufficiently in ten, or fourteen days, to resume the use of mercury with safety. In the early stage, the mercurial erethismus may often be averted by leaving off the mercury, and giving the mistura eamphorata with large doses of ammonia. When the stomach is unaffected, sarsaparilla sometimes does good. (Pearson, p. 154, £c.) Occasionally, the use of mercury brings on a peculiar eruption, which has received the several names of hydrargyria, mercurial rash, eczema mcrcurialc, eczema rubrnm, lepra mercurialis, mercurial disease, and erythema mcrcurialc. “ Eruptions of various kinds arc very common symptoms of syphilis, but a very unusual effect of mercury. Therefore, until the real nature of this erythema was lately discovered, whenever it occurred in patients undergoing a mercurial course for syphilitic complaints, it was naturally enough considered, as an anomalous form of lues venerea The mercury was consequently pushed to u greater extent, in proportion to the violence