— _rJ , J alarm those, who do not understand it; but ac- cording to Pelletan, it is the guarantee of the patient’s life by expelling, incessantly, and with- out difficulty, whatever happens to get into the trachea. The wound was healed in twenty days, and the child’s voice was not perceptibly altered. In another interesting case, recorded by the same writer, a pebble was lodged in the windpipe, and the case, not being understood, was treated, or about three weeks, as a simple inflammation of the lungs. At last, bronchotomy was per- ■. armed, and, by placing the child in a horizontal oosition, the stone was soon discharged through lie incision. The patient was immediately re- ieved ; but, the effects of the inflammation of he lungs, and injury which these organs had ustained, could never be entirely cured, and the ' ihilcl died phthisical eight months afterwards. Pelletan details other cases, in which the oreign body, being fixed in the trachea, could lot be forced out by the breath, as soon as the incision was made, but, required further means o disengage it. In one instance, Pelletan made long cut in the windpipe of a child; but, no- hing made its appearance. A probe, wrapped ound with some oiled linen, was then introduced everal times up and down the larynx, without reating a great deal of uneasiness, and the child antinued to respire very well through the open- ig in the trachea. The foreign substance was :■ -esentlv brought to the wound and extracted: proved to be part of the jaw of a mackarel, kith many sharp teeth in it. This child soon ■: :perienced a perfect recovery. In another instance, a young man came to e Hotel Dieu, n consequence of being afflicted, r six weeks, with a severe cough, frequently companied with a sense of suffocation. These •mplaints, on inquiry, were ascertained to arise im a button-mould having fallen into the tra- iea. An opening was, therefore, made in this be; but, though the button could be felt, it uld not be extracted with the finger. The icoid cartilage was now divided, and the foreign dy was then taken, out of the left ventricle of ■ larynx. The man recovered. • In one case, related by Pelletan, a piece of ' ldon of veal got down the glottis, and gave ' e to most dangerous symptoms. The foreign ■ :ly was described as being so large, that this vgeon could not but suppose, that the com- ints were owing to its lodgment in the oeso- ■ igus, as it seemed to be incapable of entering glottis. The introduction of instruments vn the pharynx, however, produced no relief; , on dividing the thyroid cartilage, Pelletan sed his finger within the larynx, and, without I wing it, pushed the piece of tendon towards glottis, when, with the aid of a probang, it I ! forced into the pharynx and swallowed. The ent experienced immediate relief, and got to well. (See Petition's Clinique Chir. T. 1 ) ‘With respect to bronchotomy, or larvngotomy, cases in which extraneous substances are sup- ced to be lodged in the trachea, one important tion seems necessary, viz. whenever the foreign y is above a certain size, a probang should a\ s lie passed down the (esophagus before cut- ' lnto (he windpipe ; for, very similar syin- ms to those, which proceed from extraneous “u\.uv,u} uiuv uv. euuoeu uy iwv. lodgment of foreign bodies in the oesophagus. In fact, bronchotomy has actually been performed, while the extraneous substance was in the oesopha- gus, fiom which last situation no attempt was made to displace it, and the patient lost his life. (See CEuvres Chir. de Desault., T. 2, p. 261.) Examples, in which various extraneous bodies have been successfully extracted by means of bronchotomy, are recorded by Engel. (Send- schreihen an Schmid. <jV. Augspi 1750; Gain- court, Journ. de Med. Vol. 12, p. 44; Heister, Wahrnehmungen, 1, p. 1026; Wendt. His'. Trnche»lomiee, §c. Uratisl. 1774.) 4. Bronchotomy lias been proposed in cases, in which the tongue is so enlarged, as totally to shut up the passage through the fauces. Richter mentions an inflammation of the tongue, in which this part became four times larger than in the natural state. Valescus had made the same ob- servation : Ego aliquando vidi iia magnificat am linguam propter humores, ad ejus substantiam veni- entes, ct ipsam imbibentes, quod quasi totum os re- plehat, et aliquando ex ore exihut. Lib. 2, cnp. 66. Such prodigious swellings of the tongue are said sometimes to occur in malignant fevers, and the. small-pox. They are also sometimes quite acci- dental, as, for instance, the cases which happen from the stings of insects, or the unskilful em- ployment of mercury. Mr. B. Bell gives an example of the latter sort. He says, that the patient had taken, in a very short time, so large a quantity of mercury, that the part became alarm- ingly swollen in a few hours, and, though all the usual remedies were tried, none bad the least effect. Bronchotomy was delayed till the patient was nearly suffocated; but be was restored as soon as an opening was made in the trachea. Some have objected to this practice, alleging, that scarifying the tongue will bring relief in time. (Encyclopedic Methodique; Partie Chirurgicale, A' i. Bronchotomie.) Malle’s observations on the swelling of the tongue, and the most effectual means of relieving it, seem to confirm the latter sentiment. (Mem. de I’Acad. de Chirurgie, Tom. 14, p. 408, &\C. Edit, in 12nm.) In cases of the preceding description, Desault would have advised the introduction of an elastic gum catheter, from the nose into the trachea, in order to enable the patient to breathe, until the swelling of the tongue had subsided. (See QZuvrcs Chir. de Desault, 1. 2, p. 246.) 5. Bronchotomy has been proposed, when both the tonsils are so enlarged that they quite impede respiration. Here, the inflammatory swelling is not meant; this commonly soon sup- purates, and the'spontaneous bursting of the tu- mor, or the opening of it with a pharvngotomus, generally removes all necessity for so extreme a measure. But, even in acute inflammation and great enlargement of the palate, tonsils, &c. at- tended with imminent danger of suffocation, the practice lias been Sometimes deemed necessary, as the cases, cited from Flajani, in the preceding columns, are sufficient to prove. 'I lie disease, however, which I here wish particularly to specify, as sometimes rendering bronchotomy indispen- sable, is a chronic enlargement of the tonsils, the case mentioned in the article Tonsils. kroni t ic remarks on the disease, however, it will be seen, that more is to be expected from the excision ot