400 EAR. such symptoms to suspect the existence of wax; but he may reduce it to a certainty by exa- mination. “ Any means capable of removing the in- spissated wax may be adopted; but syringing the meatus with warm water is the most speedy and effectual, and the only means necessary. As the organ is sound, the patient is instantaneously restored.” (Anatomy of the human Ear, with a Treatise on its Diseases, by J. C. Saunders. 1806, P, 27, 28.) In order to throw an injection into the ear with effect, a large syringe, capable of holding, at least, six or eight ounces, should be employed; and the fluid should be injected with a good deal of force, care being taken to let it enter in the natural direction, and not against one of the sides of the passage. The surgeon must also avoid pressing the pipe too deeply into the ear, so as to hurt the tympanum. As the fluid regur- gitates with considerable rapidity, a small basin is to be held close up to the ear at the time of using the syringe, so as to catch the water, and hinder it from wetting the patient’s clothes; for the surer' prevention of which a napkin is also to be laid over the shoulder. In general it is ne- cessary to throw the water into the ear six or seven times, or more, ere the pellets of wax are loosened, and entirely brought out; and, some- times, the injections will not completely succeed the first day on which they are employed. The evening before the syringe is to be used, it may occasionally be best to drop a little sweet oil into the ear. 7. Discharges from the Meatus Auditnrius. Purulent discharges from the ear either come from the meatus auditorius externus itself, or they originate from suppuration in the tympa- num, in consequence of blows on the head, ab- scesses after malignant fevers, the small-pox, or the venereal disease. In such cases, the little bones of the ear are sometimes detached, and escape externally, and complete deafness is most frequently the consequence. However, in a few instances, total deafness does not always follow even this kind of mischief, as I myself have wit- nessed on one or two occasions. There is greater hope when the disorder is confined to the meatus; as judicious treatment may now avert the most serious consequences. In Acrel’s sur- gical cases, there is a case relative to the circum- stance of which we are speaking. Suppuration took place in the meatus auditorius externus, in consequence of acute rheumatjsm, which was fol- lowed by vertigo, restlessness, and a violent head-ach. The matter discharged was yellow- ish, of an aqueous consistence, and acid smell. The meatus auditorius was filled with a spongy flesh. On introducing a probe, our author felt a piece of loose rough bone, which he imme- diately took hold of with a pair of forceps, and extracted. From the time when this was ac- complished, the discharge diminished; and, with the aid of proper treatment, the patient became perfectly well. The meatus auditorius, like all other parts of the body, is subject to inflammation. This is frequently produced by exposure to cold. It is hardly necessary to say, that generally topical bleeding and antiphlogistic means are indicated. The meatus auditorius should also be protected from the cold air, particularly in the winter sea- son, by means oi a piece of cotton. Mr. Saunders observes, “ When the means employed to reduce the inflammation have not succeeded, and matter has formed, it is generally evacuated, as far as I have observed, between the auricle and mastoid process, or into the meatus. If it has been evacuated into the meatus, the : opening is most commonly small, and the spongy [ granulations, squeezed through a small aperture, [■ assume the appearance of a polypus. Some- times the small aperture, by which the matter is evacuated, is in this manner even closed, and t the patient suffers the inconvenience of frequent L returns of pain from the retention of the dis- charge. When the parts have fallen into this J state, it will be expedient to hasten the cure by jj making an incision into the sinus, between the auricle and mastoid process. “ It occasionally happens, that the bone itself dies, in consequence of tbe sinus being neglected, j or the original extent of the suppuration. The exfoliating parts are the meatus externus of the os temporis or the external lamina of the mastoid process. (P. 24, 25.) 8. Eicresccvces in the Meatus Auditorius. Though the membrane, lining the meatus au- i ditorius, is very delicate, it is not the less liable || to become thickened, and to form polypous ex- j crescences. This case, however, is not com- j| mon. As such tumours are ordinarily firmer in I|t their texture than polypi of the nose, they are ;|rj sometimes not so easily extracted with forceps. |pf When the}' are situated near the external orifice, 1 and admit of being taken hold of with a small I pair of forceps, or a hook, they may easily be l’: cut away, when drawn outward, and this without ||:i: any reason for fearing hemorrhage. This, in- | \ deed, is usually very trivial. When the tumours are more deeply situated, Mr. B. Bell reeom- i mends the use of a ligature. Here the same .® plan may be pursued as will be explained in the Ilf article Polypus. But, it sometimes happens, that the excrescences cannot be removed in this f ; manner; as instead of being adherent by a nar- t- row neck, they have a broad base, which occu- r * pies a considerable extent of the passage. In ill' such cases, the use of escharotics has been ab-jF: surdly proposed; but, as these applications can- ; not be used without risk of injuring the nieni-'i ( brane of the tympanum, it is better to have re->4 ; course to another method. (Encyclopedia Me-if • thodiyue ; Partie Chirurgicale. Art. AudiliJ cun-H duit.) Mr. B. Bell recommends dilating the» < passage with bougies ; but it is obvious that tbe f1 pressure of such instruments would also beg very likely to irritate and inflame the membrane f • of the tympanum. !>. Herpes; of the Meatus Auditorius. An herpetic ulcerous eruption sometimes af- fects the meatus auditorius and auricle, producing considerable thickening of the skin, and so great an obstruction of the passage, that a good deal of deafness is the consequence. Air. Saunders remarks, that, in this case, “ the ichor, which exudes from the pores of the ulcerated surfacci