654 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 2. That in several instances, the constitution did not become affected, until some considerable time after the disease had manifested itself in the sore. 3. Ihat when the disease was situated on the inferior extremities, the lymphatic vessels, and glands in the groin, were observed to be in a state of irritation, giving pain on pressure, and were sometimes enlarged, before the constitu- tion shewed evident marks of derangement. 4. That the constitutional affection, though sometimes irregular, was in many cases con- temporary with the second, or inflammatory stage. 5. That all parts of the body were equally liable to become affected with this disease. 6. That, when a patient had more than one wound, or sore, it frequently happened, that the disease was confined to one of the sores, while the other remained perfectly healthy, and that even when they were at no great distance from each other. (On Phage damn Gangrccnosa, p. 19.) Thus Mr. Blackadder espouses the opinion, that hospital gangrene it at first a local, and not a constitutional disease, that is to say not neces- sarily preceded, or originally accompanied by any diseased action in the system. It is highly important to weigh this distinction well, not only because it is yet the chief point of difference, amongst the best writers on the subject, but be- cause it involves very directly every theory, re- specting the causes of the disease, and the great question, whether its ravages are to be resisted principally by local or constitutional means, or by remedies of both descriptions together. In the hospital gangrene, observed by Dr. Hollo in the artillery hospital at Woolwich, The action of the poison seemed to be limited and confined to specific effects. The first were local, producing only a general affection, hy a more extensive operation on the sore. Five or six days, from the appearance of the small ulcer or ulceration, when it had extended over one third of the former sore, with pain and redness in the course of the lymphatics, and the glands, through which they led, with enlargement of them, general indisposition of the body became evident.” Delpech, in his interesting memoir, particularly notices, that the constitutional sym- ptoms always occurred the last in order of succession. Mr. Blackadder distinctly declares, that, in no instance, which he had an opportunity of obser- ving, did the constitutional symptoms ofgangre- nous phagedacna precede the local, unless the case be held an exception, in which a stump became affected, after amputation had been per- formed, on account of the previous effects of the disease. The period, at which the constitution begins to exhibit symptoms of irritation (he says) is extremely irregular,—sometimes as early as the third, or fourth day, and sometimes even as late as the twentieth. The countenance assumes an anxious, or feverish aspect; the appetite is impaired; the desire for liquids increases; and the tongue is covered with a white mucus. I he bowels are generally rather constipated ; and the pulse, what may be termed, rather irritated, than accelerated. But, the general symptoms.may assume an inllammatorv, or typhoid charactei, according as the oauses of one of these modifica- tions may predominate. According to Mr. Blackadder, when an inflammatory diathesis pre- vails, the system becomes gradually more irri- tated, until an attack of acute inflammation seizes upon the sore, and which frequently hap- pens about the end of the second week. At this period, the pulse is frequent and sharp, and it is not uncommon for the patient to be seized with one, or more shivering fits, succeeded by a great increase of heat, but seldom, or never termina- ting in a profuse perspiration. The cold fit is sometimes followed by a bilious discharge from the intestines, and mitigation, of the febrile dis- order. If the local mischief be not arrested, the strength becomes daily more and more exhaust- ed ; the fever loses its inflammatory character; and, unless the patient be cut off by hemorrhage, he falls a victim to extreme debility. When the disease has a typhoid character, the pulse is small and frequent; the appetite and strength gradually fail; and the patient at last sinks, re- taining his mental faculties to the last. Not unfrequently diarrhoea hastens the event. (Black- adder on Phagedoena Gangrccnosa, p. 39, 40.) On the other hand, the generality of writers, nay even some of those, who represent the dis- ease as always proceeding from a species of in- fection applied to the wound, take into the ac- count the operation of constitutional causes, as predisposing to, and of course preceding the lo- cal symptoms. Dr. J. Thomson believes, that the constitutional symptoms mostly precede the local. (On Inflammation, p. 459.) The same sentiment is professed throughout Dr. Hennen’s remarks, who placed reliance chiefly upon inter- nal remedies, and regarded external applications, as merely a secondary object. (On Military Surgery, p. 222, Ed. 2.) To this part of the subject, I shall return, after adverting to the causes of hospital gangrene. The hospital gangrene, which occurred in the Artillery Hospital at Woolwich, and was described by Dr. Rollo, did not attack specific sores : venereal, scrophulous, and variolous ul- cers were not attacked, although the patients lay in the wards, where the disease prevailed. Professor Thomson admits, that specific sores are less liable to attacks of hospital gangrene, than common wounds and ulcers; but, he de- clares, that he has frequently seen it attack can- cerous and venereal ulcers. (On Inflammation, p. 460.) Dr. Hennen mentions a remarkable instance, which also proves the possibility of a specific sore becoming affected, and fatal from this cause in forty-eight hours after the patient had first been exposed to the infection. Dr. Hennen relates the fact to prove, that the contagion may be re- ceived, without a long residence in a tainted air. The patient, “ who had just landed from Eng- land, and was under the influence of mercury, employed for a venereal complaint, died within forty-eight hours after his admission, the gan- grene having seized on an open bubo in his groin, eroding the great vessels in the neigh- bourhood, and absolute!}’ destroying the abdo- minal parietes to a large extent.” (Principles of Military Surgery, p. 218, Ed. 2.) The effects of hospital gangrene should be carefully discriminated from those of the scurvy.