600 HERNIA instruments, or who have suffered a forcible con- tusion of the abdomen, are particularly exposed to the disorder, even though there is not the least reason for suspecting in them a relaxation of the mesentery. Vaginal herniae, which arise after difficult labours, afford another proof of the same truth : their cause is owing to a laxity and weakness of the parietes of the vagina, which, wot being capable of making any further resist- ance to the pressure of the viscera, situated in the cavity of the pelvis, at length suffer these parts to protrude. “ With respect to the second proposition, that during the formation of a hernia, the com- bined force of all the abdominal muscles is, as it were, directed and concentrated against the most feeble point of the parietes, we see a proof of it in a fact that occurs to our observa- tion every day. In order to convince ourselves of this, we need only notice what happens in individuals afflicted with herniae: if they cough, or sneeze, or make the slightest effort, they in- stantly find the size of the swelling increased, and hasten to support the part with their hand. During the slightest efforts, which render the herniae larger, it is also indisputable, that the mesentery is elongated in the same proportion as the intestine protrudes. All the viscera have such a tendency to be displaced and carried towards the weakest point of the parietes of the abdomen, that even those, which are naturally the most distant from it, and are the most firmly fixed by the folds of the mesentery, may in their turn descend into the herniae. Anatomical knowledge alone would never have led us to have a sus- picion of the possibility of these occurrences. Sandifort and Paletta have found, in an umbilical hernia, the coecum, with a portion of the ileum and colon. (Obs. Pathol, cap. 4, Sf Nova Gu- bernaculi testis Descriptio.) Mauchart, Cam- per, and Bose, have met with the coecum in an inguinal hernia of the left side. (De Hern. Incurc. in Halleri Disput. Chinirg. Tom. 3. Demonstrat. anat. patholog. lib. 2, p. 18, <ff Animadvcrs. de hern, inguin. p. 5.) Lassus has seen the left colon protrude at the right inguinal ring. (Mtdccinc Operatoire, T. 1, p. 173.) If it be proved by all these facts, that such viscera, as are the most closely united to the great sac of the peritoneum and neighbouring parts, are nevertheless liable to form herniae; and if such displacements cannot happen without a considerable elongation of the membranous bands fixing these bowels in their natural situa- tion, how can we refuse to admit, that a noose of intestine, pushed by degrees through the in- guinal ring, drags along with it the correspond- ing portion of the mesentery ? In order to ex- plain this event, there is no necessity for sup- posing a partial relaxation of the mesentery.” ^ Trait6 Pratique des Hernies, Par A. Scarpa, trad. dcVIlulien, p. 37—43.) The general symptoms of a hernia, which is reducible, and free from strangulation, are, an indolent tumor at some point of the abdomen, most frequently descending out of the abdominal ring, or from just below Poupart’s ligament, or else'out of the navel; but, occasionally, from various other situations, as will be presently ex- plained. The swelling often originates suddenly, except in the circumstances above related, and, it is subject to a change of size, being smaller when the patient lies down on his back, and larger when he stands up, or holds his breath. It frequently diminishes when pressed, and grows large again when the pressure is removed. Its size and tension often increase after a meal, or when the patient is flatulent. In consequence of the unnatural situation of the bowels, many patients with hernia are occasionally troubled with colic, constipation, and vomiting. Some- times, however, the functions of the viscera seem to suffer little or no interruption. If the case be an enterocele, and the portion of intestine be small, the tumor is small in propor- tion ; but, though small, yet, if the gut be dis- tended with wind, inflamed, or have any degree of stricture made on it, it will be tense, resist the impression of the finger, and give pain upon being handled. On the contrary, if there be no stricture, and the intestine suffer no degree of inflammation, let. the prolapsed piece be of what length it may, and the tumor of whatever size, yet the tension will be little, and no pain will attend the handling it; upon the patient’s cough- ing, it will feel as if it were blown into; and, in general, it will be found very easily returnable. (Pott.) A guggling noise is often made when the bowel is ascending. If the hernia be an epiplocelc, or one of the omental kind, the tumor has a more flabby, and a more unequal feel; it is in general perfectly indolent, is more compressible, and (if in the scrotum) is more oblong, and less round, than the swelling occasioned in the same situation by an intestinal hernia; and, if the quantity be large, and the patient adult, it is, in some mea- sure, distinguishable by its greater weight. (Pott.) If the case be an entero-cpiplocclc, that is, one consisting of both intestine and omentum, the characteristic marks will be less clear, than in either of the simple cases: but, the disease may easily be distinguished from every other one, by any body in the habit of making the exa- mination. (Pott, p. 28.) As the smooth slippery^ surface of the intes- tine generally makes its reduction easier, than that of the omentum, we may infer, with Mr. Lawrence, “ that, if a portion of the contents slip up quickly and with noise, leaving behind something which is less easily reduced, the case is probably an entero-epiplocele. (See Treatise on Ruptures, Edit. 3, p. 32.) On the subject of prognosis, Mr. Pott re- marks, that the age and constitution of the sub- ject, the date of the disease, its being free, or not free from stricture, or inflammation, the sym- ptoms which attend it, and the probability or im- probability of its being returnable, necessarily produce much variety. If the subject be an infant, the case is not often attended with much difficulty or hazard, the reduction being easy as well as the descent; and though from neglect, or inattention, the bowel may fall down again, yet it is as easily replaced, and mischief seldom produced: Mr. Pott says seldom, because he has seen an infant, one year old, die of a strangulated hernia, which had not been down two days, with all the sym-