377 DISLOCATION. renders ihe diagnosis more difficult5 but, not- withstanding the assertion of Boyer, I believe the olecranon and internal condyle, are never so obscured, that the distance between them cannot be felt to be increased. It is true, that the rub- bin^ of the coronoid process and olecranon against the humerus, may cause a grating noise, similar to that of a fracture; and some attention is cer- tainlv requisite to establish a diagnosis between a fracture of the head of the radius, and a dislo- cation of the tore-arm backwards. As Bover observes, when we consider the extent of t he articular surfaces, and the great di- stance, which they must be thrown, ere they cease to be in contact, it is evident, that a luxation backward must be attended with serious injury of the surrounding soft parts. The lateral liga- ments are also constantly ruptured, and sometimes the annular ligament of the radius. Probably the lower insertions of the biceps and brachialis internus would likewise be more frequently la- cerated, by the violent protrusion of the head of the humerus forwards, were it not, that their attachments are at some distance from the joint. This mischief, however, occasionally takes place, and, then the fore-arm is observed to be readily placed in any position, and not to retain one atti- tude, as is generally the case in dislocations. The lower end of the humerus, indeed, has been known not only to lacerate these muscles, but to burst the integuments, and present itself exter- nally ; an instance of which is recorded by Petit, and two such cases I saw myself during my apprenticeship at St. Bartholomew’s. Boyer justly remarks, that, it is difficult to conceive how under these circumstances, the brachial artery and median nerve can escape. In fact, this vessel has sometimes been ruptured, and mortification of the limb been the consequence; but, this in- jury of the artery, and the laceration of the mus- cles and skin, are rare occurrences. ( Truitt des Mai. Chir. T. 4, /» 215.) Nor, if the artery were wounded, would gangrene be invariably the result; for, if my memory is correct, an instance, in which the limb was saved, notwithstanding such a complication, is mentioned by Mr. Aber- nethy in his lectures, though, no doubt, the risk would he great. The following method of reducing the case, is advised bv Boyer:—The patient being firmly seated, an assistant is to take hold of the middle part of the humerus, and make counter-exten- sion, while another assistant makes extension at the inferior part of the fore-arm. The surgeon, seated on the outside, grasps the elbow with his two hands, by applying the fore-fingers of each to the anterior part of the humerus, and the thumbs to the posterior, with which he presses on the olecranon, in a direction downwards and for- wards. 1 his method will in general be success- ful. If the strength of the patient, or the long continuance of the luxation, render it necessary to employ a greater force, extension is to be made with a towel applied on the wrist, and a cushion is to be placed in the axilla, and the arm and trunk fixed, as is done in cases of luxa- tion of the humerus. A bandage may afterwards be applied, in the orm of a figure of 8, and the arm kept in a sling. . aceration, which always takes place, is in- varia j y followed by more or less swelling, which 0 be combated by antiphlogistic means. At the end of seven or eight days, when the inflammatory symptoms are nearly gone, the articulation is to be gently moved, and the motion is to be increased every day, in order to prevent an anchylosis, to which there is a great tendency. In this luxation, the annular ligament which confines the head of the radius to the extremity of the ulna, is sometimes torn, and the radius passes before the ulna. In such cases pronation and supination are difficult and painful, though the principal luxation has been reduced. The head of the radius may be easily replaced, by pressing it from before backwards, and it is to be kept in its place by a compress, applied to the superior and external part of the fore-arm. The bandage and compress are to be taken off every two or three days, and re-applied, This is ad- visable, on account of the necessity of moving . the articulation to prevent anchylosis. If the luxation be not soon reduced, it becomes irreducible; the heads of the radius and ulna grow to the back part of the humerus, and the patient can neither bend nor extend his arm. However, in certain cases, especially in young persons, some motion is in time acquired; the heads of the radius and ulna forming for them- selves cavities in the humerus, in which they perform some motions, but always imperfectly. . In a modern publication, an instance of a dis- location of the heads of the radius and ulna back- ward is related, where the lower end of the humerus protruded through the integuments, and as it could not be reduced, it was sawn off'. The patient, a boy, recovered the full use of his arm. (Evan?, Pract. Obs. on Cataract; Com- pound Dislocations, <£c. p. 101, Wellington, 1815.) A luxation forwards should be treated as a fracture of the olecranon, with which it would be inevitably accompanied. Here, on account of the great injury clone to the soft parts, it would also be right to bleed the patient copiousty, and put him on the antiphlogistic regimen. As to lateral luxations, either inwards or out- wards, they are always incomplete, and easily discovered. They are reduced by extending the humerus and fore-arm, and at the same time pushing the extremity of the humerus, and the two bones of the fore-arm in opposite directions. These luxations cannot be produced without considerable violence; but when the bones are reduced, they are easily kept in their place. It will be sufficient to pass a roller round the part, to put the fore-arm in a middle state, neither much bent nor extended, and to support it in a sling. But much inflammation is to be ex- pected from the injury done to the soft parts. In order to prevent, or at least mitigate it, the patient is to be bled two or three times, and put on a low diet, and the articulation is to be covered with the lotio plurnbi acet. or an emol- lient poultice. It is scarcely necessary to repeat, that the arm rs to be moved as soon as the state of the soft parts will admit of it. ( Boyer, sur les Maladies dcs Os, T. 2.) A dislocation of the fore-arm backward, is said to occur ten times as frequently as lateral luxa- tions ; and those forward are so rare, that no comparison whatever can be drawn. (QZuvres Chir.de Desunlt, T. 1.) An incomplete lateral luxation may be pro- duced by a blow, which drives the upper part of