ANEURISM. is ive destruction of the skin. A farther postpone- aent of the operation being deemed inadmissible, ,Ir. Ramsdcn performed it the next day in the allowing manner : “ A transverse incision was made through the kin and platysma myoides along, and upon the pper ed*:e of the clavicle, about two inches and half in length, beginning it nearest to the houlder, and terminating its inner extremity at bout half an inch within the outward edge of the terno-eleido-mastoideus muscle. This incision ivided a small superficial artery, which was di- ectlv secured. The skin, above the clavicle, eing then pinched up, between my own thumb nd finger, and those of an assistant, I divided , from within, outwards and upwards, in the line f the outward edge of the sterno-eleido-mastoi- eus muscle, to the extent of two inches. “ My object, in pinching up the skin for the econd incision, was to expose at once the super- cial veins, and by dissecting them carefully from le cellular membrane, to place them out of my ■ay, without wounding them. This provision roved to be useful, for it rendered the flow of lood during the operation very trifling, compa- ltively with what might otherwise have been ex- ected; and thereby, enabled me with the great- st facility to bring into view those parts, which ■ere to direct me to the artery. “ My assistant having now lowered the shoul- er, for the purpose of placing the first incision :ove the clavicle, (which Iliad designedly made ong and upon that borie) I continued the dissec- on with my scalpel, until I had distinctly brought :to sight the edge of the anterior scalenus mus- e, immediately below the angle, which is formed f the traversing belly of the omo-hyoideus, id the edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, and lving placed my finger on the artery, at the oint where it presents itself between the sealeni, found no difficulty in tracing it without touch- g any of the nerves to the lower edge of the pper rib, at which part, I detached it with my nger nail for the purpose of applying the liga- tre. “ Here, however, arose an embarrassment, hich (although I was not unprepared for it) reatly exceeded my expectation. I had learned om repeatedly performing this operation, many iars since, on the dead subject, that to pass the >ature under the subclavian artery, with the icdle commonly used in aneurisms, would be ^practicable; I had, therefore, provided myself ith instruments of various forms and curvatures > meet the difficulty, each of which most readily mveyed the ligature underneath the artery; but, ould serve me no farther; for, being made of did materials, and fixed into handles, they ould not allow of their points being brought up ;ain at the very short curvature, which the nar- wness of the space, between the rib and the ivicle, afforded, and which, in this particular se, was rendered of unusual depth, by the pre- ous elevation ot the shoulder by the tumor. “ After trying various means to overcome this fficulty, a probe of ductile metal was at length nded me, which I passed under the artery, and mging up its point with a pair of small forceps, succeeded in passing on the ligature, and then -d tin; subclavian artery at the part, where I had eviously detached it for that purpose. The drawing of the knot was unattended with pain, the wound was closed by the dry suture, and the patient was then returned tcRhisbed.” (See Prac- tical Ob a civ ai iavs on the Sclcroccle, 6\C. to which are added j our cases oj operations for Aneurisms, p. 27G, Sfc.) It only seems necessary for me to add, that immediately, the artery was tied, the pulsation of the swelling ceased; that the arm of the same side continued to be freely supplied with blood, and was even rather warmer than the opposite arm ; that the operation, which was severe from the length of time it took up, was after a time followed by considerable indisposition; that the patient died about five days after its performance; that, after the artery had been tied, the oedema of the arm, and the aneurismal tumor partly sub- sided; and, that on examination after death, no- thing, but the vessel, was found included in the ligature. In this publication are descriptions of instru- ments, which will be of great service to any fu- ture performer of this operation. The chief one is a needle, resembling that, which was invented and used by Desault, and of which I have already endeavoured to give an idea. By means of this instrument, I conceive, that the main difficulty of the operation will not in future be experienced. Had Mr. Ramsden had its assistance, his patient would have been detained a very little time in the operating theatre, and the event of the case might have been completely successful. Having wit- nessed all the circumstances of the case, the in- ference, that I drew from them was, that, if the operation could have been done in a moderate time, which now seems practicable with the aid of the aiguille a ressort, the case in all probability would have ended well. The preceding case is particularly memorable, as being the first instance, in which the subclavian artery was scienti- fically tied, without any random thrustpfa needle, and without the inclusion of any part besides the artery in the ligature. It furnished encourage- ment to repeat the experiment, held out the hope, that axillary aneurisms might be cured as well as inguinal ones; and confirmed the competency of the anastomosing arteries to nourish the whole upper extremity, when the subclavian is tied where it emerges from behind the anterior scale- nus muscle. In the year 1811 the subclavian artery was tied in the London Hospital, in a case of axillary aneurism, by Sir W. Blizard, who found no diffi- culty in getting the ligature under the artery, with a common aneurism needle. A single li- gature was applied. At first, hopes of recovery were entertained; but the patient, who was old and debilitated, afterwards sunk, and died on the fourth day. (See Hodgson's Treatise, p. 375.) In the year 1815, Mr. Thomas Blizard tied the subclavian artery, in the same hospital. 'I he case was an aneurism in the left axilla, and, like all the other examples of this kind upon record, was attended with great pain in the tumor and limb. There was no pulse in the left radial artery, though there was scarcely any difference in the temperature of both arms. ‘‘ An incision, about three inches in length, was made through the in- teguments at the root of the neck, on the acromial side, and parallel with the external jugular vein. The platysma myoides being divided, the cellular