HERNIA. obturatrix artery are different from what is most common. lie found, that when this artery and the epigastric arise by one common trunk, they sometimes separate from each other above, and rarely below the .upper opening of the crural canal. In the first case, the longer their com- mon trunk is, the closer do they lie to Gimbernat’s ligament, and to the inner edge of the upper opening of the above canal. In the second case, the common trunk of these arteries arises within this canal, and the two vessels then return into the abdomen. In lot) bodies, of which 117 were male, and 73 female, the obturatrix artery arose on both sides from the hypogastric, and only in 56, of which 21 were male, and 35 female, did it originate on both sides from the epigastric. In 28, of which 15 were male, and 13 female, the obturatrix arose on one side from the hypogastric, and on the other from the epigastric. In 6 bodies, viz. 2 male, and 4 female, it originated from the crural. (See Recherchcs Anat. sur les Hermes, 4to. Paris.) It is observed by Professor Scarpa, that “ the round ligament of the uterus, in passing through the abdominal muscles, follows precisely the same track as the spermatic cord. It is equally situated behind Poupart’s ligament, with the difference, that it does not become so distinct from the in- ternal extremity of this ligament, as the spermatic cord does, because it has not so far to run, in order to get from that ligament to the inguinal ring, the latter opening being situated lower in the female, than the male subject. The round ligament, like the spermatic cord, also crosses the ep’gastric artery, before reaching the inguinal ring. And as the crural hernia always begins at tbe internal and inferior angle of tbe arch of this name, as well in the male as the female, it follows, that, in the two sexes, the epigastric artery re- mains in its natural situation, and invariably cor- responds to the external side of the neck of the crural hernia; whilst the spermatic cord, in man, and the round ligament, in women, pass over the extremity of the front of the neck of the hernial sac. In the operation for the crural hernia, in females, the incision of the neck of the hernial sac, and crural arch, when directed upward to- wards the linea alba, cannot wound the epigastric artery, which it is of the most consequence to avoid; but it always divides, either totally or partially, the round ligament of the ujerus, which cannot lead to any dangerous hemorrhage; for, except in the period of pregnancy, the arteries p{ the round ligament are very small; they are almost obliterated in women advanced in years; and in general, they are quite capillary in the extremity of the ligament adjoining the ring. Plencc, it cannot be surprising, that so many crural herniae have been successfully operated upon in women, by cutting the hernial sac and crural arch directly upward, while not a single instance can be cited of such an incision being made in man without mischief, although, in both sexes, the epigastric artery may have been avoided in operating by this process. (Scarpa, l raite dcs Hcrtiies, p. 240.) In operating for the crural hernia in males, Scarpa recommends us to follow a method, which he calls new, but which, in fact, is the same ns that advised by Gimbernat. “ I have found (says Scarpa) that, in man, the neck of the her- nial sac rnay be divided without danger, by giving to the incision a direction exactly contrary to that which is practised in the female subject. After having opened the hernial sac, it is to be drawn outward by one of its sides sufficiently to allow the introduction of a small director be- tween its neck and the strangulated intestine, the groove of the instrument being turned down- wards towards the internal and inferior angle of the crural arch. A probe-pointed bistoury, the edge of which is also to be directed down- wards towards the point of insertion of Poll- part's ligament to the pubes, is to be pushed along the groove. By this means, the neck of the hernial sac will be divided its whole length, at its internal and inferior side, and Poupart’s ligament will be cut close to its attachment to the top of the os pubis. The epigastric artery will certainly be avoided, because it lies upon the opposite side of the hernial sac. As for the spermatic cord, I have demonstrated, that it is situated on the forepart of the neck of the hernial sac ; consequently, it cannot be touched by an incision made from above downwards, whilst it is constantly cut in the ordinary me- thod, since the knife is carried from below up- wards. In the first case, this part mav be the more easily avoided, as it lies at some distance from the internal and inferior angle of the crural arch. In fact, it is at this place that it quits, as we have seen, the edge of Poupart’s ligament, in order to ascend towards the inguinal ring. The incision that I propose (says Scarpa) not only has the advantage of slitting open tbe neck of the hernial sac its whole length, it also divides a part of the insertion of Poupart’s ligament into the upper part of the os pubis, a thing that greatly contributes to relax tbe crural arch, and facilitate the reduction of the viscera; of | j those, at least, which are not adherent to the sac.” (Scarpa, Op. cit. p. 255.) Although this accurate anatomist and surgeon appears to be quite unacquainted with many of the late valuable publications on hernia, which have made their appearance in this country, it is curious to find, both in his account of the in- guinal and crural hernia, how strongly his doc- trines and observations tend to confirm every- thing that has recently been insisted upon in modern works, respecting the place where the bubonocele first protrudes, its passing through a sort of canal before it comes out of the abdo- minal ring, the advantage of cutting in the crural hernia the internal and inferior angle of Pou- part’s ligament, or, in other terms, that part of the ligament which was first particularly pointed out by Gimbernat, as causing the principal part 'of the strangulation, and about which so much has been said by Mr. A. Cooper, Mr. Ilcy-, &c. j Hesselbach considers an incision through the outer side of the crural ring safer than one through Gimbernat’s ligament, and safer in wo- men than men. In women, he recommends the : cut to be made through the middle of the fore- part of the ring, nearly' straight upwards, or a little inclined inwards, in which mode the epi- i gastric artery cannot be hurt, whether it lie at ; tbe outer, or inner side of tbe neck of tbe sac. i In men, this incision, directed obliquely upwards and inwards, be says, cannot be made, <>u account of the nearness of the spermatic cord : j