1192 WOUNDS. The two membranes meet in the middle of the chest, and extend from the sternum to the ver- tebrae. In this manner, two cavities are formed, which have no sort of communication with each other. By the two pleuraj, touching and lying \ against each other, a middle partition is formed, called the mediastinum. These two membranes are intimately adherent to each other, in front, the whole length of the sternum; but, behind, where they approach the vertebrae, they separate from each other, so as to leave room for the aorta, oesophagus, &c. The heart, enclosed in the pericardium, occupies a considerable space on the left of the mediastinum, and all the rest of the chest is filled with the lungs, except behind, where the large blood-vessels, nerves, thoracic duct, and oesophagus, are situated. In the per- fectly healthy state, the lungs do not adhere to the pleura; but, in the majority of subjects, at least in this climate, who are examined after death, such adhesions are found in a greater or lesser degree. The disease may probably be oc- casioned by very slight inflammation; and, as the surface of the lungs is naturally destined to be always in close contact with the pleura, and patients are frequently not suspected to have any thing wrong in the thorax, this morbid change being often accidentally discovered after death, in looking for something else; it may be con- cluded, that it does not produce any serious effects. The thorax is subject to all kinds of wounds; but their importance particularly depends on their depth. Those which do not reach beyond the integuments, do not differ from common wounds, and, when properly treated, are seldom followed by any bad consequences. On the contrary, those which penetrate the cavity of the pleura, even by the slightest opening, may give rise to alarming symptoms. Lastly, wounds, injuring any of the thoracic viscera, are always to be con- sidered as placing the patient in a state of con- siderable danger. From what has been said, it appears, that wounds of the thorax are very properly divisible' into three kinds : viz. 1, such as affect only the skin and muscles; 2. such as enter the cavity .of the chest, but injure none of the viscera; 3. others, which injure the lungs, or some other viseus. Superficial Wounds of the Thorax.—Imme- diately a surgeon is called to a recent wound of the chest, his first care should be to ascertain, whether the weapon has penetrated the pleura, or not. In order to form a judgment on this cir- cumstance, surgical writers recommend, 1. Pla- cing the wounded person in the same posture, in which he was, when he received the wound, and then carefully examining with a finger, or probe, the direction, and depth of the stab. 2. The examination, if possible, of the weapon, so as to 6ee how much of it is stained with blood. 3. The injection of fluid into the wound, and atten- tion to whether it regurgitates immediately, or lodges in the part. 4. The colour and quantity of the blood, discharged from the wound, are to be noticed, and whether any is coughed up. 5. We are to examine, whether air escapes from the wound in respiration, and whether there is any emphysema. 6. Lastly, the state ot the pulse In wounds of the chest, however, surgeons should not be too officious with their probes, merely for the sake of gratifying their curiosity, or appearing to be doing something. No judi- cious surgeon can doubt, that authors have dwelt too much on the subject of probing wounds of the abdomen, and thorax; for, they would really lead their readers to believe, that, until the wound has been traced, with the finger, or probe, to its very bottom, and termination, surgeons are not qualified to institute any mode of treatment. The only advantage of knowing, that a wound penetrates the chest, is, that the practitioner im- mediately feels himself justified in having re- course to bleeding and other antiphlogistic means, with the view of preventing inflammation of the pleura, and lungs, which affection, if not controlled in time, often proves fatal. However, there can be little doubt, that if the nature and depth of the wound cannot be readily detected, with the eye, the finger, or a probe, or by the dis- charge of air, or blood, it is much safer to bleed the patient, than to put him to useless pain, with the probe, and waste opportunities of doing good, which too frequently can never be recalled. In short, generally speaking, it is better, and more advantageous, for all patients, that some of them should lose blood, perhaps unneeessarilv, than that any of them should die, in conse- quence of the evacuation being omitted, or de- layed. Almost all writers, who have taken pains to direct, how wounds of the thorax should l-e probed, conclude with remarking, that, however advantageous a knowledge of the direction and depth of the wound may be, much harm has fre- quently been done by pushing the attempts to gain such information too far. It is, perhaps, of greater importance to learn, by some kind of ex- amination, the extent of a wound, which does not reach beyond the integuments, or intercostals, than to know, whether the wound extends into the cavity of the chest For, even when the pleura is found to be divided, if the wound be at- tended with no urgent symptoms, the informa- tion is of no practical use, if we make it a rule to adopt without the least delay, a strict antiphlo- gistic plan of treatment, in all cases, in which there is any doubt, or chance of the parts, within the chest, being wounded, and likely to inflame. Besides, frequently, the symptoms are more ur- gent and alarming, than they could be, were only parts on the outside of the thorax injured ; and under such circumstances, it is manifest, that a probe cannot be necessary for discovering, that the wound extends into the chest. With respect to the injection of luke-warnt water, or any other fluid, and the circumstance of its regurgitation, as a criterion of the wound being only superficial, the plan is more objection- able, than the employment of a probe; for, if the liquid be propelled, with force, it may be injected into the cellular substance, anil seem to be pass- ing through the track of the wound into the chest, while, in reality, not a drop does so. Besides, is it a warrantable proceeding to try to insinuate any quantity, or kind, of liquid, whatever, be- tween the pleura and lungs, into a situation, in which it must necessarily obstruct the important function of respiration, and cause serious incon-