TIC DOULOUREUX. 1035 nees, it may extend, like other neuralgias the face, to all the same side of the head, uring the paroxysms, when the disease is fully -tiled; an abundant salivation usually takes ice. In general, the attendant tpothach de- ves the practitioner, who in the belief that the n arises from another cause, uselessly extracts : eral of the teeth. :The tic douloureux of the lower jaw, or xillary neuralgia, is usually first felt about : situation of the anterior orifice of the canalis mtalis, and it extends to the lower lip, chin, ■k, teeth, and temple. This form of the com- , tint is more uncommon, than the preceding ; after it has prevailed some time, is equally narkable for its intensity. ■ With respect to the neuralgia of the facial ve, or portio dura of the auditory nerve, it is :ase, which very soon cannot easily be di- ! ..iguished from the other species of tic dou- ireux. The pains at an early period are no _iger confined to the passage of the principal inches of this nerve between the parotid gland d ramus of the jaw. The numerous com- inications of the portio dura with the rest of : nerves of the face seem to facilitate the ex- •ision of the disease, so that the agony is soon t over the whole side of the head. The original rjrce of the disorder can only be detected by t entively considering the progress of the com- int in all its stages. (See Delpech, Traite Maladies RcputSes Chirurgicales, T. 3, t. 7,p. 214, 4'c.) . Tic douloureux may be known from rheu- tism by the paroxysm being excited by the ; ;htest touch, by the shortness of its duration, l the extreme violence of the pain. In acute ". umatism, also, there is fever, with redness, it, and generally some degree of swelling; 1, in chronic rheumatism, the pain is obtuse, lg continued, and often increased at night; nc of which symptoms characterize tic dou- treux. It may easily be distinguished from hemi- mia by the pain exactly following the course the branches of the affected nerve. It is known from the toothach by the com- •ative shortness of the paroxysms; the quick- ;s of their succession ; the intervals of entire e; the darting of the pain in the track of particular nerve affected; the more super- al and lancinating kind of pain ; and the ten- sive twitchings, which sometimes accompany ; complaint. The causes of tic douloureux may be said to in general unknown ; but, there are a few :arices recorded, which appear to be the ‘Sequence of external violence, wounds, con- ions, &c. A modern writer has related a y curious instance of a resembling disease in arm, where the affection proceeded from the gment of a small bit of a bullet in the radial ve. (Denmark, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. ?• 48.) Dr. Parry attributed the pain to in- ased vascularity, or determination of blood, rhaps amounting to inflammation) to the neu- tna, or vascular membranous envelope of the ves affected. (Elements of Pathology and„ erapeutics.) Stimulating embrocations, blisters, caustic is- s, fomentations, leeches, frictions with mer- il ointment, (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. Vol. 3.) electricity, opium in large doses, the arsenical solution, and a variety of antispasmodic medicines, are the principal means, which have been tried; but for the most part, they only afford partial and temporary relief. From some facts, recently published by Dr. Marcet, the ex- tract of stramonium, in doses of i and i a grain thrice a day, seems to be sometimes capable of alleviating the distressing agony of the present disorder. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 75, <£c.; also Kirby’s Cases, 8vo. Load. 1819.) The operation of dividing the trunk of the affected nerve, and even of dissecting out a portion of it, so as to prevent all chance of a relapse from the re-union of the ends of the nerve, is a plan, which has sometimes been practised with permanent benefit. Thus, any one of the three branches of the fifth pair of nerves may be divided at the point, where it comes out upon the face. But, before having recourse to this means, the surgeon should be sure, that the particular nerve, which he is about to expose and divide, is really the principal seat of the disease; for, when all the nerves of the face generally are affected, or when the branches of the portio dura are especially concerned, there is little hope of success. In fact, it must be con- fessed, that the operation has had many failures and relapses, either from the cases not having been duly discriminated, or from the neglect to remove a portion of the exposed nerve. Rich- erand, Delpech, and most of the leading surgeons in France express their preference to the appli- cation of the moxa, or cautery, which, they say, proves more frequently successful, than the knife. This should be done directly over the apertures, from which the nerves emerge on the forehead, cheek, or chin, and Richerand asserts, that by such treatment, the pains may always be cured, or at all events, rendered supportable.— (Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 218, Edit. 4.) Del- pech also affirms, that the section of the nerve very often fails, and that issues, and the re- peated use of the cautery have been attended with the greatest success. (See Precis des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 213.) The disfigurement of the countenance by burning applications must, however, be very objectionable, and, as I think there is no positive evidence of the superiority of this method over the use of the knife, I con- sider what Richerand and Delpech have stated only as another instance of the extreme partiality of the French surgeons to the moxa and cauter- ization. Delpech confesses, however, that, when the pains seem to be the consequence of a gan- glion, or thickening of a part of a nerve, the ex- cision of such part is indispensable. There can be little doubt, that this would have been more proper, than amputation, in Mr. Denmark’s case, to which I have .already referred. The theories of Dr. Parry, senior, who was generally in- clined to refer the effects of disease to increased determination of blood to the parts affected, led him to believe, that the operation of cutting the nerve, as performed by Dr. Ilaighton and others, did good rather by the division of the arterial branch supplying the affected ramification of the trigeminus nerve, than by the division of that ramification itself. (Parry, Elements of Pa- thology, &C.J There have been many examples of tic dou- loureux, which, after resisting all attempts to cure