•m CATARACT. I cisc incision, such as the nature of the opera- i demands; and, why should they refuse to |1 empt the cure of cataracts, in children, wlien motives are more urgent, and it is equally j the power of art to substitute means, quite as •ctual as docility and reason in surgical pa- ns? What experienced operator would trust hese qualities, when he undertakes any grand .] ration, even on the most rational and firm It? (Critica* Reflections on the C-taract, 1805.) I )f late years, the attention of surgeons has ■ I i much drawn to the subject of operating on J cataracts of children, and the propriety of the J -tice seems to be now firmly fixed on the basis :| xperience. It is even ascertained, that the }| .fie may be successfully employed on children ij he most tender age. The late Mr. Saunders, >J jeon to the London Infirmary for curing dis- | s of the eye, may be said to have had theprin- ( 1 share in promoting the adoption of this im- ;| ant improvement. His practice confirmed, ij t reason had long ago made probable, and the i| jment, tenderness, and skill, with which he jj -ated, on the eyes of infants, as well as those ; dults, were followed by a degree of success, m ’h had never been previously witnessed, and I :h infused quite a new spirit into this most resting branch of Surgery. Subjects from • teen months to four years old, received most ;fit from Mr. Saunders’s operations; and, if m intermediate time be selected, Dr. Farre (the is >r of this gentleman’s publication) is inclined | ecommend the age of two years. “The parts 4 : then attained a degree of resistance, which | >les the surgeon to operate with greater pre- sS in, than at an earlier period; yet, the capsule ' not become so tough and flexible, as it does later period, after the lens has been more |U pletely absorbed. tj But, this is not the greatest, although a con- rable advantage of an early operation ; for, -ases, in which the patient has no perception of 1 rnal objects, the muscles acquire such an inve- te habit of rolling the eye, that, for a very long I > after the pupil has been cleared by an opera- no voluntary effort can control this irregular [ ion, nor direct the eye to objects with suffi- f t precision for the purpose of distinct and use- dsion. The retina too, by a law, common to tj he structures of an animal body, for want of M , g exercised, fades in power. Its sensibility, •| iany of the cases, cured at the ages of four || vs, and under, could not be surpassed in child— j who had enjoyed vision from birth; but, at t years, or even earlier, the sense was evi- 1}' less .active; at twelve, it was still more § ; and from the age of fifteen and upwards, it R . generally very imperfect, and sometimes the j perception of light remained. But, these rvations do not apply to those congenital ea- ■ts, in which only the centre of the lens and ■ ule is opaque, the circumference being trans- nt, for, in those, the retina is exercised by a option, although an imperfect one, of exter- ibjects, the motions of the muscles, which the globe, are associated, and an absorption ie lens does not take place : therefore, in this ety of the disease, the argument in favour of *7 operation, is not so much a medical, as oral one—it is preferable for the purposes of education and enjoyment.” (Saunders on Dis- eases of the Eye, p. 153, 155.) Besides Mr. Saunders, several other surgeons of the present day have become zealous advocates for operating upon the cataracts of children. Even Mr. Ware, before his death, strongly recom- mended the use of the needle in the congenital cataract of infants and children. His mode of operating, I shall hereafter notice. The late Mr. Gibson, of Manchester, likewise urged the pro- priety of couching young subjects, and fixed on the age of six months, as preferable to that of two years. “Whatever objections (says he) have been urged against the safe and effectual use of the couching needle in infants, have always ap- peared to me so slight, and so easily surmountable, that, without inquiring particularly into the real state of the question, I have long concluded, that the same motives, which would induce an opera- tor to couch a cataract at any period of adult life, would equally lead him to perform that operation at any earlier period, when a cataract existed. Acting upon this presumption, I have operated upon children of all ages, J'or ten years past.” (See Edinh. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. 7, p. 394.) Mr. Gibson’s paper being dated June, 1811, we are of course given to understand, that he pursued this practice from the year 1801, and he asserts, that his experience had embraced a con- siderable number of cases. - “ In performing the operation of couching infants, it lias always appeared to me, (says this gentleman,) that the advantages to be gained by restoring vision at so early a period, are so important, as to bear down any obstacles which may occasionally be opposed to the safe use of the needle. Even the risk of derangn g the figure of the pupil forms no solid objection to its use; and may always be avoided by steadiness and good management. Should even a slight change in its figure be produced, it is seldom in the least detrimental to distinct vision, and can scarcely be considered a blemish in the eye of any one; except, perhaps, in that of a geome- trician ; who may easily reconcile to himself the presence of an oval opening, where one of a cir- cular form should exist. It may farther be ob- served, that, if an operator cannot depend upon his management of the eye, so as to render it steady by the introduction of the couching needle, he can avail himself of the assistance of a specu- lum to restrain its motions. “The following observations will apply prin- cipally to infants under twenty months old. The advantages, which an operator possesses, in opera- ting upon a child of this age, as compared with a child of three years old, or upwards, are import- ant. An infarjt is n< t conscious of the operation intended : it is free from the fears created by imagination, and can oppose very feeble resistance to the means employed to secure it with steadi- ness. At an early age, it has not acquired the power of retracting the eye deep in the socket, so that the operator has always a good prospect of introducing the couching needle with ease by watching a proper opportunity. The eye has not, at this time, acquired the unsteady rolling motion, which, after a few years, is so common and remarkable in children bom blind, or reduced