LIQUOR. The disease sometimes puts on the appear- ance of an ulcerated, wart-like excrescence, oc- casionally acquiring a considerable size. Some- times it is seen in the form of a very destructive ulcer, which consumes the surrounding sub- stance ol the lip ; and, in other examples, the disease resembles a hard lump, which, at length, ulcerates. Ihe disease, in its infancy, is often no more than a pimple, which gradually becomes malignant. Whenever there is reason to believe, that the disease is of an unyielding cancerous nature, and it does not soon give way to arsenic, hemlock, and mercurials, the sooner it is ex- tirpated the better. For this purpose, some surgeons admit the propriety of using caustic, when the whole disease can be completely de- stroyed by one application. But as the action of caustic is not capable of being regulated with so much precision as the extent of a wound can be, and as caustic will not allow the parts to be united again, the knife is the only justifiable means, especially as it occasions also less pain. Two incisions are to be made, meeting at an angle below (supposing it to be the lower lip), and including the whole of the disease. The sides of the wound are then to be united by the twisted suture. (See Hare-lip.) When the affection is extensive, however, the surgeon is frequently necessitated to remove the whole of the lip, or too much of it to admit of the above plan being followed. This circumstance is par- ticularly unpleasant, as the patient’s spittle can only be prevented from continually running over his chin by some artificial contrivance. The deformity also is very great, and pronuncia- tion and swallowing can only be imperfectly performed. LIPPITUDO. (from lippus, blear-eyed.) Blcarcdness. The ciliary glands, and lining of the eyelids, only secrete, in the sound state, a mere sufficiency of a sebaceous fluid to lubricate the parts in their continual motions. But, it sometimes happens, from disease, that this se- baceous matter is secreted in too great a quantity, and glues the eyelids together during sleep, so that, on waking, they cannot be easily sepa- rated. Hence, the margin of the eyelids be- comes red all round, and the sight itself even weakened. The best remedies are the unguentum hy- drargyri nitrati, smeared, at night, on the edges and inside of the eyelid with a hair pencil, after being'melted in a spoon; the unguentum tu- tise, applied in the same way; and a collyrium, composed of 3j. of the sulphate of zinc in vjiij. of rose water. When alterative medicines .are requisite, a grain of calomel may be exhibited daily, or the compound calomel pill, containing one grain of calomel, one of sulphur antimonii praecipitatum, and two of guaiacum, put together with soap. Persons who have lippitudo and cataracts to- gether, bear couching much better than one would expect from the appearance of the eyes in that disease ; and Mr. Hey never rejects a pa- tient on this account, provided such state is ha- bitual. (Practical Observations, p. 51.) Scar- pa, however, recommends the lippitudo to be re- moved, before the operation is undertaken. LIQUOR AMMON. A GET. (L P.)— This is given in the dose .ol hall an ounce in many surgical cases, in which the object is to keep up a gentle perspiration. LIQUOR ARSENICALIS.—. Arse- nici Oxydi pra;parati in pulverem subtilissimum triti, Potassae Subcarbonatis ex tartaro, singulo- rum gr. 64. Aq. distill. ][ j coque simul in vase vitreo, donee arsenicum omne liquetur. Liquori frigefacto adjice Spiritfls Lavandulae com. 3>v- Denique adjice insuper Aq. distil, quantum satis sit, ut mensuram octarii accurate impleat. For internal use the dose is iv. drops gradually in- creased to xx. twice a day. It is frequently given in cases of anomalous ulcers, and can- cerous affections of the lip. It is also used as an external application in similar cases, and especially in hospital gangrene. (See Arsenic, and Hospital Gangrene.) LIQUOR CALCIS (L. P.)—Sometimes used as an astringent injection, or lotion, in cases of gonorrhoea, gleet, psora, porrigo, ab- scesses, &c. LIQUOR CUPRI SULPHATES CAM- PHORATA.—[j,. Cupri sulphatis. Boli Gal- lici sing. unc. ss.' Camphorae drach. j. Aqum ferventis lib. iv. Boiling water is to be added to the other ingredients, and the liquor filtered when cold. It is chiefly employed in a diluted state, as a collyrium ; but it may also prove of service as an application to foul ulcers. When used for the cure of the purulent oph- tlialmy, the lotion is to be injected under the eyelids, by means of a blunt syringe, and, if ne- cessary, the application may be repeated once or twice every hour. (See Ophthalmy.) LIQUOR POTASS/E SUBCARBONA- TIS (L. P.)—This remedy is principally de- serving of notice on account of its having been given with a view of dissolving calculi in the bladder, so as to remove the necessity of per- forming the dangerous and painful operation of lithotomy. The principle, on which the liquor potassre subcarbonatis acts, is by the potass* attracting and combining with the uric acid of the calculus. The medicine may be exhibited in doses of 20 or 40 drops, or of a dram, in a basin of gruel. Experience does not seem to justify the indulgence of much hope, with regard to the complete efficacy of the medicine in dissolv- ing urinary calculi, and on some kinds it is not calculated to act at all, even on chemical prin- ciples ; but, it would appear, from the reports of writers, that it has often materially palliated the pain which attends the presence of a stone in the bladder. Some practitioners place more con. fidence in the liquor potassm. LIQUOR KALI ARSENICATI.—fy. Kali Arsenicati gratia duo. Aquae Menthae Sativae uncias quatuor. Spiritus Vinosi tenui- oris unciarn. Misce et cola. Two drams of this may be given thrice a day in cases of cancer. My7 friend, Mr. Barnes, of Exeter, when for- merly a student at St. Bartholomew’s, shewed me a case of lupus, or noli me tangere, which was greatly benefited by7 this remedy externally applied. Mr. Barnes was using the lotion with double the proportion of arsenic. There are many ulcerations round the roots of the nails of the lingers and toes, to which Plunket’s caustic is sometimes applied ; but. the liquor kali arseni- cati would, in all probability, be quite as effica- cious, and, certainly, it is a neater application.