NECROSIS. 834 tions ccasc altogether in a certain portion of the bone, the separation of which then becomes indis- pensable. (Dc Necrosi Ossium, p. 7.) I have mentioned, that M. Louis confined the term necrosis to cases, in which the whole thick- ness of a bone perished; but Weidmann judi- ciously criticises this limitation of the word, and maintains, that the nature of the disorder is the same whether it affect a single scale, the whole, or a mere point, of the bone. He also objects to the definition of necrosis proposed by Chopart (Dissert, de Necrosi Ossium, Paris, 1765), and adopted by David. (Ohs. sur unc Maladie connuc sous le noin de Necrose, Paris, 1782.) These two authors have defined necrosis to be a disorder, in Which a portion of bone perishes, and turns dry, in order to be soon separated from the living parts, and replaced by a new bony substance, which is to perform its functions. But, as Weidmann observes, it may happen, that a piece of bone, which dies and separates, may not be replaced by any new formation of bone, though the disease is of the same character, and merely varies in some modifications. He there- fore argues, and every rational surgeon will agree with him, that a true necrosis must always be said to exist, whenever a dead portion of bone has either separated, or is about to separate. “ Vera demum necrosis semper cst, si ali- quod ossis ramentum, in quo vis vitae extincta cst, absccssit, vel proximo absccssurum, cst.” (P.7.) The tibia, femur, lower jaw, clavicle, humerus, fibula, radius, and ulna, are the bones most fre- quently affected with necrosis. Excepting the lower jaw and scapula, the process of regenera- tion has only been noticed, in the cylindrical bones. From 12 to 18 years of age, is the time of life, most subject to necrosis. The necrosis of the lower jaw, however, seldom occurs before the age of 30. In some persons, the bones are affected at once, owing to constitutional causes. No climate, age, sex, mode of life, nor con- dition, (says Weidmann) is exempt from this dis- order. Childhood and puberty, however, are the periods most liable to it. The same thing may be said of persons, who labour hard, and are much exposed to external injuries. Every bone of the human body is subject to necrosis; but those which are superficial, and enter into the formation of the extremities, are more frequently affected, than others whose situation is deeper. Necrosis less commonly attacks the spongy sub- stance of the bones, because this being indued with a higher degree of vascularity and life, sup- puration is most apt to occur. Necrosis, on the contrary, is oftener seen in the compact sub- stance, where the vital principle is less energetic, and more readily extinguished. Lastly, the dis- order may affect the long bones, or the broad ; the large or small; and even those of the very least size; since it is well known, that the ossi- cula of the ear may be destroyed by necrosis, and separate. I have seen this happen in two instances, and the fact is recorded by several writers. (See Astruc dc Morbis Vcncrcis, lib. 4, cap. i. Henri, Journal dc JVIcdccinc, 1'. 15, p. 363.) Though necrosis mostly attacks the cylindrical bones, the flat ones are not exempt from the dis- ease. Pott makes mention of a parietal bone,, I [ the whole of which was detached, and of an oajt frontis, the greatest part of which came away. 1; In a thesis on necrosis, iri 1776, aux tcoles dala chirurgic, may be found the case of a youngjj. man, a very large part of whose scapula perished! |, and separated. Chopart, who relates the easeal | mentions, that he saw the patient quite recovered*! | and felt a new triangular moveable bone, firrnlwl| supporting the clavicle, but smaller and flatteiji| than natural, and without any spinous process«|fe The same has happened to the lower jaw, adl ,j may be seen by referring to the EplicincridcA|| Nat. Cur. and Mini, dc VAcad, de Chirurgic* ‘ In the fifth volume of the latter work, is an ac-j; count of a woman, who applied to be relieved ofiH some venerea] complaints. From the beginning! ■ of the treatment, the bone was discovered to bal | loose just under the gums, and seemed, shortly! k afterwards, to move backwards and forwards wilbj 1 a tooth. M. Guernery took hold of the tootlxI p with a key-instrument, and found it firmly in-1 serted in the moveable jaw; he made with cau-jr tion the necessary manoeuvres for extracting ths] portion of bone; but was greatly surprised on I finding what an extensive part yielded to bis]: very moderate efforts. It was the whole of thaj lower jaw, above its right angle, from its division! j into the coronoid and condyloid processes to thesj j space between the first and second of the front] grinders of the left side. On the right, there]! only remained the condyle in the articular cavity*! of the temporal bone. Tbis destruction left at] i considerable empty space, from which great de-| formity was apprehended, in consequence of theji unsupported soft parts falling down. The wo—jj man, however, got well in two months, and had! I the most perfect use of a new jaw. A similar! t fact is recorded in the Journal de MidccincA j 1791. When the body of a cylindrical bone, or the] middle portion of a fiat bone, is destroyed byi j necrosis, their extremities, which are of a cellularj ; texture, continue unaffected, so that, for example, j in the cylindrical bones, the articular ends are] always formed of portions of the original bone,.] which are engrafted, as it were, on the new pro- duction. There are, however, a few bad cases-1 in which the necrosis does not altogether spare] the heads of the bones, and the disease com—] municates with the joint. These examples are] very uncommon, and are attended with consider-! able danger to the limb: indeed, they generally] require amputation. (See Boyer, Traite des4 Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 442.) Mr. Brodie has known an instance, in which, without any obviousr] cause, a large portion of the head of the tibia died*! and exfoliated, and the destruction of the knee- j joint was the consequence. (Pathol. and Surg. j Obs. on the Joints, p. 269.) Besides the differences arising from the par- j tieular bones affected, necrosis also varies, ac- cording as the portion of bone attacked happens j to be thin, and of little extent, or large and ofii considerable thickness. The disease is simple, when it is confined to one bone, and the patient ; is in other respects healthy; compound, when several different parts of the same bone, or se-.> veral distinct bones, are affected at the same time; when the health is bad; and other parts