327 catheter. . v nat Feburier makes. Tlie gum catheters ai e made at Paris of twelve different sizes, which correspond to twelve holes in a plate of brass. “ Each catheter, therefore, (says a late intelligent visitor to that capital) has its size designated by its number, which greatly facilitates the ascer- taining of the progress of the case towards a cure. Numbers 1 and 2 are smaller than can be pro- cured in England, and are so slender, that I thought there might be danger of their breaking, until I was convinced by seeing the method of making them, that there is no reason for fearing any such thing. A firm tissue of silk is woven upon a brass stilet, of the size of the cavity of the instrument to be made. Inweaving this tis- sue, the orifice or eye is left, and the whole there- fore consists of one entire thread. The succes- sive layers of varnish are deposited on the outer surface of the silken tissue, their number depend- ing on the size of the instrument; and each coating of varnishing undergoes a long process of scouring before the next is put on, for which purpose women are employed by Feburier.” (See Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. Cross, 1815, /'. 122-123.) According to this gentleman, however, the En- glish gum-catheters possess advantages : “ they retain their curve better without the stilet, are less liable to crack, and have eyes more smooth and better formed.” (P. 124.) Bernstein, in his Dictionary of Surgery, gives the following account of this instrument, as it is fabricated in Germany : One of the most useful inventions which have been made, with respect to these in- struments, is to construct them of elastic gum, and the merit of this invention is to be ascribed, without doubt, to Theden. (Scue Bemerkungen a. Erfahrungen,&;c. Th. 2. Berlin, 1 782, p. 143.) They were afterwards improved by a silversmith at Paiis, of the name of Bernard, who did not apply the dissolved elastic gum to a wire cylinder, as Theden had done, but to one made ■A knitted silk ; and these catheters certainly de- serve to be recommended in preference to all others. But, with respect to their price, the elastic catheters formerly prepared by Pickel, of Wurzburg, (Richter’s Cliir. Bibloibek, I>. 6, j>. 512,) deserve particular recommendation. These .onsist of silk cylinders, plaited, or worked upon i probe, and afterwards covered with the follow- ng varnish : three parts of white-lead, minium, ir sugar of lead, with boiled linseed oil, which is lie common varnish used by cabinet-makers, nixed with one part of melted amber, and the iarrie quantity of oil of turpentine. With this • arnish the silk cylinders arc covered, and the •.nue thing is repeated three times, as soon as ach coating has been dried in the open air. The atheters are then put in a baker’s oven twenty- uur hours, when bread lias beembaked in it the ast time, and when it retains the tern]), of GO. 0. Ueaum. Here they are to remain ten or • welve hours. When the catheter lias been taken uitol the oven, the inequalities are to be rubbed »fi with a little pumice-stone; the end is lobe sewed up; the oblong lateral aperture is cut in it; uul it is to be Coated twelve or fifteen times moie *itt» varnish. The catheter must be always well r,, d in the open air, before the varnish is spread Tou 'l again, and after every third coating which it has received, it must be put in the oven again, so that it must in all have received from fifteen to eighteen coatings with varnish, and have been laid five or six times in the oven. The end is smoothed ofiT with oil. (Cyclopes dia, by Rees, Arr. Catheter.) When the object of passing a catheter is merely to empty the bladder, without any design of leav- ing tlie instrument afterwards in the passage, Larigenbeek always prefers an inflexible one, made of silver. (Bibl. Jiir die Ciiir, B. 1, ]>. 117 <>.) Sometimes spasm about the perinseum remits the introduction of a catheter difficult. In this case, a dose of opium should be administered, before a second attempt is made. When in- flammation prevails in the passage, the in- troduction may often be facilitated by a previous bleeding. The operation of introducing the catheter may be performed, either when the patient is stand- ing up, sitting, or lying-down, which last posture is the most favourable. In order to pass a cathe- ter with ease and dexterity, the following circum- stances must be observed: the instrument must be of suitable shape and size; a just idea of the perineum and curvature of the urethra must be entertained; the catheter must be introduced with the greatest care and delicacy; and the re- laxation of the abdominal muscles lias been in- sisted tipon, (Langenbcck, Bibl. 1, ]i. 1177,) though, I confess, that it does not appear to me, how this- circumstance is of importance. One of the most important maxims is, never to force forward the instrument, when it is stop- ped by any obstacle. If there are no strictures, the stoppage of the catheter is always owing to one of the following circumstances. Its beak may be pushed against the os pubis. This chiefly oc- curs when the handle of the instrument is pre- maturely depressed. Here the employment of force can obviously do no good, and may be productive of serious mischief. The beak of the catheter may take a wrong direction, and push against the side of the urethra, especially at its membranous part, which it may dilate into u kind of pouch. In this circumstance, if force were exerted, it would certainly lacerate the urethra, and occasion a false passage. The end of the catheter may be entangled in a fold of the lining of the urethra, and here force would be equally wrong. Lastly, the point of the instrument may be stopped by the prostate gland, in which case force can he of no service, and may do great harm. Hence, it is always proper to withdraw the instrument a little, and then push it on gently in a different position. There are two methods of introducing a male catheter, viz. with the concavity turned towards the abdomen; or with tlio concavity directed downwards in the first stage of the operation. Of course, the'latter plan requires the instrument to be turned, so as to place its concavity upwards, as soon as the beak lias arrived in the perineum; and hence, the French surgeons call this method the “ tour do maitrc.” The operation may be divided into throe stages. In the first, the catheter passes, in the male subject, that portion of the urethra which is sut rounded by the corpus spongiosum; in the second.