BIB MORTIFICATION. oppressive hiccough ; a symptom well known to the surgeon of experience, and often an indica- tion of the mischief, when external signs are less instructive. The truth of this remark is frequently seen in strangulated hernice. 1 he constitution also suffers immediately a considerable dejection. The patient’s counte- nance suddenly assumes a wild, cadaverous look; the pulse becomes small, rapid, and sometimes irregular; cold perspirations come on, and the patient is often affected with diarrhoea and de- lirium. As Dr. Thomson observes, the constitutional symptoms “form fevers, which partake in indi- vidual cases, more or less, of an inflammatory, typhoid, or bilious character. But, the degree of these fevers varies, in every particular case, from their almost total absence to the highest degree of intensity. The skin is usually hot, and dry at the commencement of the attack; the tongue is without moisture, brown and hard; the pulse is quicker, and less full and strong, than in inflammation ; and this state of the pulse is often attended by flattering intermissions, and a considerable degree of subsultus tendinum. The fever has, in general, more of the asthenic, than of the sthenic character; or it is more of the typhoid, than of the inflammatory type; a circumstance of great importance in the consti- tutional treatment of mortification. The fever in gangrenous affections is often accompanied with great uneasiness and restlessness, dejection of spirits, wildness of the looks; and, in severe cases, with almost always more or less delirium. In the progress of the disease, cold sweats, pal- pitations, and convulsions, sometimes occur ; a hiccough, accompanied with nausea, often comes on, and proves a most distressing symptom to the patient. Frequently, this hiccough is the forerunner of death. Some patients die coma- tose ; others, after suffering severe pains, spasms, and delirium. But, in some, a slow, in others, a sudden abatement of the constitutional sym- ptoms takes place, accompanied also with the amelioration of the local affection. The gan- grenous inflammation stops, and a red line is formed by the adhesive inflammation in the ex- treme verge of the living parts; the dead part separates, and granulations form ; and when the constitution has strength to sustain the injury it has received, recovery takes place.” (See Lec- tures on Inflammation, p. 509.) In cases of sphacelus, the prognosis chiefly depends on the nature of the cause of the dis- order. The more easy the cause is of removal, thp less room is there for alarm. It is an erro- neous supposition, that mortification arising from an external local cause is more easy to be stop- ped and cured, than that originating from ran internal cause. The local cause is sometimes exceedingly difficult, or even incapable, of re- moval ; and a sphacelus, which is at first entirely local, may afterwards become a general disorder, by the universal debility, and derangement of the system, resulting from the complaint. Hence, it is obvious, that a sphacelus may easily extend beyond the bounds of its outward local cause. On the other hand, a mortification may be re- duced to one of a nature entirely local; though it arose at first from constitutional causes. Spha- celus front extreme debility, or from such a state of the system, as attends the scurvy, typhoid fevers, &c. is constantly perilous, because these causes arc very difficult to remove. It is also a fact, that, when numerous causes are combined, it is an unfavourable occurrence, not merely because the surgeon is apt to overlook some of them, but because there are in reality more ob- stacles to the cure. Humid gangrenes, which are frequently ac- companied with emphysema of the cellular mem- brane, usually spread with great rapidity. “ Some authors, (says a modern writer,) have attributed this to the influence of the air extricated, and Dr. Kirkland has described emphysematous gan- grene, as distinct from the others, and some have imputed this disposition in a considerable degree to the putrefaction of the juices, which are ef- fused.” With regard to the former, the author has mistaken an effect for a cause; yet, “ it is important to recognize the fact, that gangrene, when accompanied with emphysema, has a re- markable disposition to spread.” (James on Inflammation, p. 96.) Sometimes a mortification spreads so slowly, that it does not occupy much extent at the end of several months, or even a whole year. The case, however, is often not the less fata! on this account. The danger is never altogether over, until the dead part has completely separated. The entrance of putrid matter into the circula- tion (says Richter) is so injurious, that patients sometimes perish from this cause, long after tin: mortification has ceased to spread. (Anfungsp. der Wundarzn. B. i, Kap. 3, p. 78, 79.) This last circumstance is very much insisted upon, by all the modern continental surgeons ; but the doctrine has never gained ground amongst English surgeons, who entertain little apprehension of the bad effects of the absorption of putrid matter in cases of mortification; and the opinion of Mr. Guthrie may be more correct, that nature receives the shock through the ner- vous systeih, and not through the absorbents.— (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 123, Ed. 2.) The idea of a deleterious principle being ab- sorbed was long ago well refuted by Mr. J. Burns, who pointed out, that the impression upon the constitution was in no degree commensurate with the size of the slough,, and consequently with the quantity of putrid matter, as the effects produced by a small slough of intestine, or cor- nea, will exemplify. But when the sloughs are of equal size, and in the same parts, the differ- ences of constitutional sympathy, as Mr. James observes, may depend upon the nature of the surrounding inflammation, which, however, he conceives, may itself be affected by the quantity of putrid irritating fluids. (On Inflammation, p. 98.) The danger of sphacelus is also proportioned to the size and importance of the part affected. The event of the distemper likewise depends very much on the patient’s age and constitution. Parts, .affected with gangrene, do not imme- diately lose the whole of their sensibility; the circulation is still continued in a certain degree; and when the progress of the distemper does not surpass certain bounds, the functions of such parts may be completely re-established. Gan- grene, strictly speaking, is not a decided morti- fication ; bul only the forerunner of this lattei