6-0 HERNIA. into the abdomen, and no longer suffer constric- tion, either from the inner opening, from the ring, or the parts just within the cavity of the peritonaeum. TREATMENT OF THE OMENTUM. In an entero-epiplocele, this part, if healthy and free from gangrene, is to be reduced after the intestine. When, however, it is much dis- eased, thickened, and indurated, as it frequently is found to be, after remaining any considerable time in a hernial sac, the morbid part should be cut off. Its reduction, in this circumstance, would be highly improper, both because an im- moderate enlargement of the wound would be necessary, in order to be able to put the diseased mass back into the abdomen, and because, when reduced, it would, in all probability, excite in- flammation of the surrounding parts, and bring on dangerous symptoms. (See Hey, p. 172.) The diseased omentum should always be cut off with a knife; and, if any of its arteries should bleed, they ought to be taken up with a tenacu- lum, and tied separately with a small ligature. An unreasonable apprehension of hemorrhage from the cut end of the omentum has led many operators to put a ligature all round this part, just above the diseased portion, which they were about to remove. This practice cannot be re- probated in terms too severe; for, a frequent effect of it is to bring on a fatal inflammation, and even mortification of the omentum, extend- ing within the abdomen, as high as the stomach and transverse arch of the colon. Mr. A. Cooper has remarked with great truth, that it is surprising, this custom should ever have pre- vailed. The very object of the operation is to extricate the omentum from its strangulated state, arising from the pressure of the surround- ing tendon, and no sooner has this been done, than the surgeon includes it in a ligature, which pro- duces a more perfect constriction, than that which existed before the operation was undertaken. “ When the omentum has suffered strangula- tion for a few days (says Mr. Lawrence,) it often becomes of a dark red, or livid colour; and there is an appearance, on cutting it, as if some blood were extravasated in its substance. This, I be- lieve, is the state, which surgeons have generally described under the term of gangrene.” (P.‘26'2.) When cut in this state, it does not bleed. I need hardly observe, that the dead part must be amputated, and never reduced. Some have ad- vised leaving the omentum in the wound; espe- cially in cases of old herniae, in which it has been a long while protruded. Hey mentions cases, shewing that granulations form very well, and that the wound becomes firmly healed, when this plan is followed. (P. 180, $r.) Every one, however, will acknowledge the truth of what Mr. Lawrence says ori this subject. The method “ is attended with no particular advantage, but cer- tainly exposes the patient to the possibility of ill consequences. I he omentum, left in the wound, must be liable to injury, inflammation, or dis- ease ; and hence arises a source of dangei to the patient. Unnatural adhesions, formed by this part, have greatly impaired the functions of the stomach, l.ascs are recorded, where the unfor- tunate patient has never been able to take more than a certain quantity of food, without bringing on instant vomiting : and even where it has been necessary for all the meals to be taken in the recumbent position, with the trunk curved, and the thighs bent (Gunz.) To avoid the possi- bility of such afflicting consequences, we should, after removing any diseased portion, carefullv replace the sound part of the omentum in the abdominal cavity.” (See Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 27-1, Edit. 3.) TREATMENT, WHEN THE INTESTINE IN THE SAC IS MORTIFIED. Sometimes, on opening the hernial sac, the intestine is found to be in a gangrenous state, although the occurrence could not be previously known, owing to the integuments and the hernial sac itself not being affected with the same mis- chief. In ordinary cases, however, both the skin and sac become gangrenous at the same time with the contents of the hernia. The tumor, which was previously tense and elastic, becomes soft, doughy, emphysematous, and of a purple colour. Sometimes the parts also now spon- taneously return ; but the patient only survives a few hours. Mr. A. Cooper has accurately remarked, that, in other instances, the skin, covering the swell- ing, sloughs to a considerable extent, the intes- tine gives way, and, as the feces find vent at.the wound, the symptoms of strangulation soon sub- side. When the patient continues to live in these circumstances, the living part) of the intes- tine becomes adherent to the hernial sac, the sloughs separate and come away, and thus an artificial anus is established, through which the feces are sometimes discharged, during the re- mainder oflife. (See Anus, Artificial.) Frequently, however, things take a more pros- perous course ; the feces gradually resume their former route to the rectum, and, in proportion as the artificial anus becomes unnecessary, it is shut up. Many instances of this sort have fallen un- der my own observation in St. Bartholomew’s hospital. The chance of a favourable event is much greater in some kinds of hernia, than in others. When the strangulation only includes a part of the diameter of the gut, the feces are sometimes only partially discharged through the mortified opening. This quantity lessens, as the wound heals, and the patient gets perfectly well. (Louis, Man. (le VAcad, dc Chir. T. 3. P. S’. Palm. Dc Epiplo-cutcroccle crurali iu- carccrata sphacelates, cum deperditione iwtabili substantiae intcstlni, spontc- scparali, felhitcr curata alvo naturali restitute, 4 to. Tub. 1748. (Haller, Disp. Chir. 3, 2.) A small gangrenous spot, or two, may end in the same manner. Mor- tification, as well as wounds of the large intes- tines, is much more frequently followed by a recovery, than the same affection and similar in- juries of the small intestines. Mortification of the coceum and its appendix, in a hernial sac, has happened several times, without materially disturbing the usual course of the feces to the anus, and the patients very soon recovered. (Med. Obs. and hup Vol. 3, p. 162; Hep's Pract. Obs. p. 162, \c ) The grand thing, on which the establishment of the continuous state of the intestinal canal