aifi BLADDER. first bo introduced, so as to make a passage for the probe, along which the cannula was to be guided into the bladder. The idea of substituting lor these unsuitable instruments a trocar of con- venient length was exceedingly simple, and, for this improvement, which took place in 1721, surgery is indebted to Juncker, (See Conspectus Ckirwuia>, 97, p. 671), unless the follow- ing passage be correct: “ In the year 1717, or 1718, M. Peyronie showed in the King’s garden a long trocar, which he had successfully employed in’a similar puncture.” (Desault's Parisian Chir. Jo urn. Vol. 2, p. 267.) The patient having been placed in the same position as for lithotomy, an assistant is to press with his left hand on the region of the bladder, above the pubes, in order to propel that viscus as far downward into the lesser pelvis as possible, while, with his right hand, he supports the scrotum. The surgeon is then to introduce the trocar at the middle of a line, drawn from the tuberosity of the ischium to the raphe of the perineum, two lines more forward than the verge of the anus. The instrument is first to be pushed in a direction parallel to the axis of the body; and its point is afterwards to be turned a little in- wards. Here, according to Bichat, there is no occasion to convey the cannula so far into the bladder, as is done, when the operation is per- formed above the pubes. The portion of this viscus, that is pierced, being incapable of chang- ing its position, with regard to other parts in the perineum, if the cannula only project a few lines into its cavity, it will not be liable to slip out. It would be wrong, indeed, to carry it in further; for, the pressure of its end against the posterior parietes of the bladder would do harm. Lastly, the cannula is to be fixed in its place, by means of the T bandage. (See CEuvres Chir. he Desault, T. 3, p. 320.) Some writers recommend the introduction of the left index finger into the rectum, in order to draw this intestine out of the way.; but Sabatier thinks it better to use this finger for pressing on the part of the perineum, where the puncture is about to be made, so as to make the skin tense, and assist in the guidance of the trocar. (Medi- cine Operaloire, T. 2, p. 126.) The parts, divided in the puncture, are the skin, a good deal of fat, and cellular substance, the levator ani muscle, and that portion of the lower part of the bladder, which is situated on one side of its neck. The following is the judgment, which Bichat has passed upon this method: In the track, which the trocar has to pass, there is no part, the puncture of which must of necessity give rise to bad symptoms. A surgeon, moderately exercised in the practice of this operation, is tolerably sure of piercing the bladder, which is opened in the most depending situation, and at a point, which constantly bears tbe same relation to the perinseum. But, the position, in which the patient is placed for the operation, is a great deal more disagreeable, than that for the punc- ture above the pubes. Several assistants are re- quired to fix him, and one is necessary for com- pressing the bladder in the hypogastric region. There is a possibility of wounding the vessels of the perineum, and of pricking the nerves, which accompany them. If the point of the trocarb? carried too much outwards, it may glide over the .external side of the bladder. If it be in- clined forwards, it may slip between this viscus and the pubes. If it be turned too much inwards, it may pierce the prostate gland. If directed too much backwards, it may wound the vasa de- ferentia, the rectum, the extremity of the ureter, and the vesiculae seminales. Also, while the cannula is kept introduced, the patient can neither walk about, nor sit down ; but, must continually keep himself in bed. Lastly, this mode of operating is frequently counter-indicated, by tumors, or other common diseases, in this part of the body, in consequence of retentions of urine. (CEuvres Chir. he Desault par Bichat, Tow. 3, p. 321.) The puncture of tbe bladder from the peri- neum is now almost universally abandoned by British surgeons. “ Wemayesteem it fortunate,” says Desault, “ if the trocar penetrates directly into the bladder, after piercing the fat and tbe muscles, situated between the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus; and, as this viscus is sub- ject to much variation in its form, the surgeon will often be defeated, unless he be perfectly clear in his ideas, respecting its situation and .figure. This disappointment is not without example, and there is sufficient cause to deter a practitioner from performing this operation, independently of the danger of wounding with the trocar the vasa deferentia, vesiculae seminales, ureter,” &c. (Pa- risian Chir. Journ. V. 2, p. 267.) If there be now any practitioners, who are averse to the total relinquishment of this method, I think the following caution, given by Sabatier, may be of service to them : perhaps, the ope- ration would be more safe, if tbe surgeon were >0 begin with making a deep incision in the peri- neum, as is practised in the lateral way of cut- ting for the stone, and if he were to desist from plunging the trocar into the bladder, until he had assured himself of the situation of this viscus, and felt the fluctuation of the urine. This advice was given by Garengeot to Foubert, in regard to the mode of cutting for the stone practised by the latter, and it seems equally applicable in the present place. (Medicine Operatoire, Tam. 2, p. 127.) As in cases of inveterate strictures, the urethra between the obstruction and the bladder is always dilated, I think with Mr. C. Bell, that it may sometimes be better practice to cut into such distended portion of the passage, than puncture the bladder. On this point, many useful re- marks may be found in this gentleman’s Sur- gical Observations, Pari 5, Sj'c. the tenor of which I have more particularly considered in the 2d vol. of the 4 th Ed. of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery. 2. Puncture above the Pubes. The invention of the method of tapping the bladder above the pubes was suggested by the possibility of extracting calculi from that viscus, by what is usually denominated the high ope- ration. The first performers of the puncture above the pubes are said to have employed a straight trocar, the very same instrument as was used for tapping the abdomen in cases of dropsy.