DISLOCATION. S81 ficult, if not impossible, because the articular surfaces of the metacarpal -bones extend a good way forwards, and the palm of the hand makes resistance to such an accident. The first pha- lanx of the thumb, in particular, is often dislo- cated backwards, behind the head of the first me- tacarpal bone, in which case it remains ex- tended, while the second phalanx is bent. These dislocations should be speedily reduced; for, after eight or ten days, they become irre- ducible. In a luxation of the first bone of the thumb, which was too old to be easily reduced, and where the part was thrown behind the head of the metacarpal bone, Desault proposed cutting down to the dislocation, and pushing the head of the bone into its place with a spatula. Even in cases, which are quite recent, this kind of dis- location frequently cannot be reduced without the utmost difficulty; and the different proposals which have been made, respecting this particular accident, by Mr. Evans, the late Mr. Hey, Mr. C. Bell, and Boyer, are highly deserving the notice of the surgical practitioner, who will find them explained in my other work. Dislocations of the thumb and little finger inwards, and that of the thumb outwards, (which are possible cases) and luxations of the first phalanges of the other fingers backwards, are all reduced by making extension on the lower end of the affected thumb, or finger, and at the same time pressing the head of the bone towards its natural situation. After the reduction, the thumb, or finger, affected, should be rolled with tape, and sur- rounded and supported with pasteboard, till the lacerated ligaments have united; care being taken to keep the hand and fore-arm quiet in a sling. The luxation of the first phalanx of the thumb, behind the metacarpal bone, requires pe- culiar treatment, as I have elsewhere explained. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HONES OF THE PELVIS. Experience proves, that the bones of the pel- vis, notwithstanding the vast strength of their ligaments, may be dislocated by violence : thus, the os sacrum may be driven forwards towards the interior of the pelvis; the ossa ilium may be displaced forwards and upwards ; and the bones of the pubes may be totally separated at the symphysis, and an evident degree of moveable- ness occur between them. For the production of these accidents the operation of enormous force is requisite; and, in fact, their usual causes are falls from a great height; the fall of a very heavy body against the sacrum, at a period when the body is fixed; and the pressure of the pelvis between a wall, or post, and the wheel of a car- riage, or waggon, Hence, the dislocation is generally the least part of the mischief occa- sioned by such kinds of violence, and the case is commonly attended with concussion of the spinal marrow, injury of the sacral nerves, ex- travasation of blood in the cellular substance ' of the pelvis, or cavity of the peritoneum, injury of the kidneys, and fracture of one, or more, of the bones of the pelvis. As Mr. A. Cooper has remarked, some of these cases, complicated with fracture, are liable to be mistaken for dislocations of the thigh:—When, says this gentleman, a fracture of the os innominaturn happens through 1 ,r acetabulum, the head of the femur is drawn upwards, and the trochanter somewhat forwards, so that the leg is shortened, and the knee and foot are turned inwards. Such a case, therefore, may be readily mistaken. If the os innominaturn is disjointed from the sacrum, and the pubes and ischium are broken, the limb is slightly shorter than the other; but the knee and foot are not turned inwards. These accidents may generally be detected by a crepitus perceived in the motion of the thigh, when the surgeon applies his hand to the crista of the ilium, and there is greater motion, than in a dislocation of the thigh. (A. Conptr, Surgical Essays, Fart 1, p. -49). In addition to the complications which may attend a dislocation of the bones of the pelvis, and arise immediately from the external violence, the case is always followed by inflammation, which may be very serious, not only on account of the extent of the articular surfaces affected, but because such inflammation may extend to the peritoneum, and viscera of the abdomen and pelvis, as I have myself seen in two or three instances. Louis relates a case, in which the os ilium of the rig tit side was found separated from the sa- crum, so as to project nearly three inches behind it. This accident was caused by a heavy sack of wheat falling on a labourer. (Mem. de FAcaii. de Lhir. T. 4. 4to.) In a case, recorded by Mr. A. Cooper, the posterior part of the acetabulum was broken ofi) and the head of the the thigh-bone had slipped from its socket; the fracture extended across the os innominaturn to the pubes, the bones of which were separated at the symphysis nearly an inch asunder. The ilia were separated on each side, and the left os pubis, ischium, and ilium broken. {Surgical Essays, Purl 1, p. 50.) In the same work may also be perused another case of fracture of the body of the os pubis and ra- mus of the ischium, combined with a luxation of the right os innominaturn from the sacrum, and laceration of the ligaments of the symphysis of the pubes. When these cases do not prove fatal from the direct effect of the great violence committed on many parts, or from peritonitis, the same un- pleasant event sometimes follows rather later from suppuration of the articular surfaces taking place, and abscesses forming in the cellular membrane of the pelvis. (Foyer, Trade dts Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 147.) A case, in which a dislocation of the left os innominaturn upwards had a successful termi- nation, was attended by Enaux, Iloin, and Chaussier, and is published in a modern work. (Mew. de I'Arod. de> Sciences de Dijon.) As the reduction could not be accomplished at first, an- tiphlogistic treatment was followed for some days, when new attempts to replace the bone were made, but could not be continued, as they caused a recurrence of pain and other bad symptoms. A third trial, made at a later period, was not more effectual; and all thoughts of re- duction were then abandoned. After the patient had been kept quiet some time, though not so long as was wished, he quitted his bed, and began to walk about on crutches. I do not under- stand, however, as is asserted, iiow the weight of the body could now bring about the reduction, which had been previously attempted in vain. Be this as it may, the result was tl;c patient's