BANDAGE. 2)3 remarks, the peculiar bandage of the body. If the breast, or belly, be wounded, we make the transverse piece, which encircles the body, very broad, and having split the tail-part into two portions, one of these is to be conveyed over each side of the neck, and pinned to the opposite part of the circular bandage, so as to form a suspen- sory for the latter, and prevent its slipping down. But, says Mr. John Bell, if we have a wound, or disease, or operation, near the groin, or private parts, the tail-part then becomes the most import- ant part of the bandage: then the transverse piece, which is to encircle the pelvis, is smaller, while the tail-part is made very broad. When the disease is in the private parts, perinseum, or anus, we often split the tail according to circum- stances; but, when the disease is in one groin, we general .y leave the tail-part of the bandage entire and broad. The linteumscissnm, or split-cloth, is a bandage applied occasionally to the head, and consists of a central part, and six, or eight tails, or heads, which are applied, as follows: When the cloth has six heads, the middle, or unsplit part of the cloth is applied to the top of the head. The two front tails go round the temples, and are pinned at the occiput; the two back tails go also round the temples, and are pinned over the forehead; the two middle tails are usually directed to be tied under the chin; but, as Mr. John Bell observes, this suffocates and heats the patient, and it is better to tie them over the top of the head, or obliquely, so as to make pressure upon any particular point. (Principles of Surgery, Yol. 1, p. 131.) The old surgeons usually split this middle tail into two parts, a broad, and narrow one. In the broad one, they made a hole to let the ear pass through. This broad portion was tied under the chin, while the narrow ends were tied obliquely over the head. As Mr. John Bell has observed, though this gave the split-cloth the effect of eight tails, yet, the ancient surgeons did not name it the split-cloth with eight tails. When they split the cloth into eight tails, and, especially, when they tied the eight tails in the following particu- lar manner, they called the bandage cancer, as resembling a crab in the number of its legs. The cancer, or split-cloth of eight tails, was laid over the head, in such a manner, that four tails hung over the forehead and eyes, while the other four hung over the back of the head. They were tied, as follows ; first, the two outermost tails, on each side in front, were tied over the forehead, while the two middle tails in front were left hanging over the knot. Then the two outermost, or la- teral tails behind were tied round the occiput. ISext the middle tails were tied, the two anterior ones being made to cross over each other, and pass round the temples to be pinned at the occi- put ; while the two middle tails behind were made to cross each other, and pass round the temples, so as to be pinned over the ears, or near the fore- head. (See John Bell's Principles, Vol. 1, p. 1S2.), ’ ' . The triangular handnge is generally a hand- erchief doubled in that form. It is commonly used on the head, and, now and then, as a sup- port to the testicles, when swelled. The French frnn 11 courre-chef en iriangU . The nodose bandage, called also scciplia, is a double-headed roller, made of a fillet four yards long, and about an inch and a half broad. It must be reversed two, or three times, so as to form a knot upon the part, which is to be com- pressed. It is employed, when a hemorrhage from a wound is to be stopped, or, for securing the compress, after bleeding in the temporal ar- tery. The most convenient bandage in general for the forehead, face, and jaws, is the four-tailed one or single split-cloth. It is composed of a strip of cloth, about four inches wide, which is to be torn at each end, so as to leave only a convenient portion of the mid- dle part entire. This unsplit middle portion is to be applied to the forehead, if the wound be there, and the two upper tails are carried back- ward, and tied Over the back part of the head, while the two lower ones are to be tied either over the top of the head, or under the chin, as maj’- seem most convenient. When the wound is on the top of the head, the middle of the undivided part is to be applied to the dressings. The two posterior tails are to be tied forward, and the two anterior ones are to be carried backward, so as to be tied behind the head. This is sometimes called Galen’s bandage. It is curious, that writers on bandages should use the terms head, and tail, synonymously, and hence this four-tailed bandage is often called the sling withf four heads. Such confusion of language is highly reprehensible, as it contributes, in a very high degree, to obstruct the comprehension of any, the most simple subject. If the upper lip be cut, and a bandage needed, which is seldom the case, it is almost superfluous to say, that this bandage will serve the purpose. It serves also in cuts of the lower lip, though there, also, we trust rather to the twisted suture, than a bandage. The single split-cloth is particularly useful in supporting a fractured lower jaw, and, in such cases, is the only one employed in. modern sur- gery. This bandage, when used for this parti- cular purpose, namely, supporting the lower jaw, is named capistrum, or bridle, because it goes rotmd the part somewhat like a horse’s halter. “ In some cases, (says Mr. John Bell) the circumstances require us to support the chin par- ticularly, and then the unslit part of the bandage is applied upon the chin with a small hole to re- ceive the point; but, where the jaw is broken, we pad up the jaw-bone into its right shape, with compresses pressed in under the jaw, and secured by this bandage. When we are in fear of hemor- rhagy after any wound, or operation, near the angle of the jaw, we can give the sling a very remarkable degree of firmness. For this pur- pose, we tear the band into three tails on each side, and we stitch the bandage at the bottom of each' slit, lest it should give way, when drawn firm,” &c. (Principles of Surgery, Vol. 1.) We have already described one way of apply- ing a handkerchief, as a bandage to the head, when we noticed tho triangular one, or c.onvrC- rhef en triangle. The other manner of applying the handkerchief, called the grand coucre-Jiel. is as follows: • You take a large handkerchief, and (old it,'