1194 WOUNDS. amputate the limb. The French have become so familiarized to setons, that they do not re- strict their use to flesh wounds, they pass them quite across the thorax, across the abdomen, and even through wounds of the knee-joint. When we wish to excite inflammation, in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, for the purpose of radically curing a hydrocele, we either pass a seton through the part; lay it open with an ex- tensive incision ; cram a tent into it; or inject some irritating fluid into it. While the animal machine continues the same, says Mr. John Bell, the same stimuli will produce the same effects, and a seton, injection, or long tent, if they pro- duce pain and inflammation in the scrotum, will not be easy in the chest; and, unless we can use them in the chest, with the same intentions, with which we use them in the hydrocele, (in other words) unless we are justified in inflaming the chest, and causing an adhesion of all the parts, we cannot use them, with any consistency, or good sense. With regard to the cases, which the French adduce in confirmation of the good effects of their plans, I am entirely of opinion with Mr. J. Bell, that the facts only prove, that the patients recovered in spite of the setons. “ It is like (adds this author) what happened to a surgeon, who was dabbling in the thorax with a piece of caustic, which fell directly into the cavity of the chest, where it caused very large suppurations, and yet the patient was saved. The patient re- covered, in spite of the caustic, just as M. Gue- rin's patient, and many other poor unhappy souls, who lived in spite of the setons. One would think, that people took a pleasure in pass- ing setons across the eye-ball, the chest, the knee-joint, &c. merely to make fools stare, when the business might be as effectually done with an abscess lancet.” Mr John Bell, in his usual lively style, makes the employment of tents, in wounds of the chest, seem equally ridiculous and improper. Indeed, he says, he knows of no occasion in all surgeriy, in which tents can be useful, except in the single one of a narrow opening, which we desire to dilate, in order to get at the bottom of the wound; and where either, on account of some great artery, or the fearf ul temper of our pa- tient, we dare not use the knife. (See J. Bell on Wounds. Discourse 2, Vol. 2.) Having hitherto been engaged, rather in pointing out, what ought not to be done, than what ought, I shall next make some remarks on the line of conduct, which should be adopted, in cases of wounds of the parietes of the chest. When the wound is a common cut, the sides of the division are to be brought into contact, and maintained in this position, with strips of adhesive plaster, compresses, and a bandage, un- til they have grown together. If the surgeon take care to relax such muscles as happen to be cut, or to be situated immediately under the wound of the integuments, there will rarely be any need of sutures. As cut wounds seldom or never penetrate the chest, and there is generally no reason, why they should not unite by the first intention, without being followed by extensive inflammation and monne Cilim ild he eni- be requisite. The grand objects are, to keep the patient in a quiet state, on rather a low diet, and to hinder him from taking wine, porter, spirits, or any other stimulating beverages. If the wound, instead of healing favourably, should inflame, the treatment should be regu. lated by the principles laid down in the article Inflammation. If it suppurate over its whole surface, but without a great deal of surrounding swelling and inflammation, one or two strips of sticking-plaster, may still be used with advan- tage ; for, in this way, the cavity, which must now be filled up by granulations, will be ren- dered much smaller, than it otherwise would be. Some very soft lint may be laid in the cavity of the wound, which the sticking plaster does not entirely remove, and over the whole a pledget of some mild, unirritating ointment. No pressure is now proper, until the inflammation diminishes ; and if the discharge should be profuse, or the surrounding inflammation considerable, the best application would be an emollient poultice. In this state of things, the patient should also he bled, and leeches be applied near the inflamed parts. When the case is a stab, or punctured wound, the fibres of the divided parts are not simply cut, they are also considerably stretched, bruised, and otherwise injured. Hence, generally they will not admit of being united so readily, as the sides of a clean incision, made with a sharp in- strument. However, the possibility of uniting the opposite sides of punctured wounds must de- pend very much on the shape of the weapon, and the suddenness, roughness, and violence, with which it was driven into the part. A prick with a needle is a punctured wound; so is that often made by surgeons with their lancets; yet, these injuries do not frequently bring on violent in- flammation, and abscesses, as other wounds fre- quently do, which are inflicted with bayonets, and pikes. Let us suppose a man to have received a thrust of a bayonet, which lias run into the skin and muscles, covering one side of the thorax: what plan can the surgeon follow, with the great* est advantage to his patient ? Instead of laying open the whole track of such a wound with a knife, as is barbarously recom- mended in many of the principal works on sur- gery ; instead of drawing a seton through its whole course, or of cramming into the part, a hard, irritating tent; the practitioner should take whatever chance there may be of uniting the wound without suppuration. For this purpose, he should recollect, that the great degree of vio- lence, done to the parts in punctured wounds, is the reason, why they are so apt to inflame and suppurate. Hence, the expected inflammation is to be counteracted in the very first instance; and immediately the wound is dressed, the pa- tient should be freely bled, and take some saline purgative medicines. With regard to the dress - ings, the orifice of the wound may be lightly closed with sticking plaster, or covered with any mild superficial applications. Over and around these, the surgeon may apply linen, kept con- tinually wet with cold water, or the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus. As, however, many patients have a strong dislike to cold applications fo any