603 HERNIA. omental kind, (which considered abstractedly is not subject to that degree or kind of danger to which the intestinal is liable) yet it may be se- condarily, or by accident, the cause of all the same mischief; for while it keeps the mouth of the hernial sac open, it renders the descent of a piece of intestine alwavs possible, and conse- quently always likely to produce the mischief which may proceed from thence. “ They who labour under a hernia thus cir- cumstanced, that is, whose ruptures have been generally down while they have been in an erect posture, and which have either gone up of them- selves, or have been easily put up in a supine one, should be particularly careful to have their truss well made, and properly fitted; for the mouth of the sac, and the opening in the tendon being both large and lax, and the parts having been used to descend through them, if the pad of the truss be not placed right, and there be not a due degree of elasticity in the spring, a piece of intestine will, in some posture, slip down behind it, and render the truss productive of that very kind of mischief which it ought to pre- vent. (See Truss.) Mr. Pott then comments upon the importance of having the parts completely reduced before the truss is applied, and upon the danger that may be incurred by laying such bandage aside after it has been worn some time; since the partial closure of the ring, whereby the descent of the gut is rendered less easy, will also make the re- duction more difficult, if a piece should happen to slip down ; and hence he insists, that a truss “ should belong, and unremittingly worn by all those, whose time of life makes the expectations of a perfect cure reasonable, many of the rup- tures of adults being owing to the negligent manner, in which children at school are suffered to wear their trusses.” / Besides, the danger of strangulation, and the loss of all chances of a radical cure, when a re- ducible hernia is neglected, and allowed to remain down, there are other motives for keeping up the tumor, with a truss, and preventing its increase of size. “ The vast size, to which neglected herniae sometimes increase, not only prohibits all active exertion, but, by involving, in the male, the integuments of the penis, incapacitates the subject from the act of copulation, and gives rise to excoriation from the discharge of the urine over the swelling. Probably too, the testis may be affected by the pressure of a very large scrotal hernia. (Morgagni dc Cans, et Sed. Ep. 311, Art. 12 ; Schmucker Vermischtc Chir. Schrif- ten, B. 3, p. 195.) Disorders of the intestinal functions invariably atjend these large ruptures, and increase in frequency and violence in pro- portion to the size of the swelling, and age of the patient. All the moveable viscera of the abdomen gradually find their way into the hernial sac, if a rupture be entirely neglected. <La-.v- rence mi Ruptures, p. 67, Edit. 3, 1816.) TREATMENT OF IRREDUCIBLE HERNIAE, FREE FROM INFLAMMATION, AND UNATTENDED WITH TROUBLESOME OR DANGEROUS SYM- PTOMS, Mr. Pott, and all the best writers on ruptures, ascribe the incapacity of reduction, in most cases, either to the largeness of the quantity of the contents, an alteration made in their form and texture, or to adhesions, which they have contracted with each other or their containing bag. Mr. Pott was also aware, that ruptures are sometimes rendered difficult to be reduced, by the ccecum being contained in the hernial sac. Of which fact, he was as much convinced as the nature of such kind of things would permit; that is, by observations made both on the living and the dead. This statement, which was made by Pott very many years back, deserves parti- cular notice, because its truth is confirmed by the modern observations of Scarpa, whose very important explanations of the cause of the diffi- culty of reduction, may be seen in the second vol. of the First Lines of Surgery. Mr. Pott has adverted to the kind of impedi- ment to reduction, produced by the thickening of the neck of the sac, when the hernia is long neglected, and suffered to remain in the scro- tum, without any bandage to support its weight. The same author reckons an alteration pro- duced by time, and constant, though gentle, pressure in the form and consistence, or texture of the omentum, as no infrequent cause, why neglected omental ruptures become irreducible. When a portion of omentum “ has been suf- fered to remain for a great length of time in the scrotum, without having ever been returned into the belly, it often happens, that, although that part of it, which is in the lower part of the hernial sac, preserves its natural soft, adipose, expansile state, yet all that part which passes through what is called the neck of the sac is, by constant pressure, formed into a hard, firm, incompressi- ble, carnous kind of body, incapable of being expanded, and taking the form of the passage in which it is confined, exactly filling that pas- sage, and rendering it impossible to push up the loose part which fills the scrotum. “ The same reason for incapacity of reduction is also sometimes met with in ruptures of the intestinal kind, from an alteration produced on that part of the mesentery which has been suf- fered to lie quiet for a great length of time in the neck of an old hernial sac. “ The other impediment, which I mentioned to the return of old ruptures, is the connexion and adhesion of the parts, either with each other, or with the bag containing them. This is com- mon to both the intestinal and omental hernia, and is produced by slight inflammations of the parts, which have been permitted to lie long in contact with each other, or perhaps in many cases from the mere contact only. These ad- hesions are more or less firm in different cases, but even the slightest will almost always be found an invincible objection to the reduction of the adherent parts, by the hand only. “ Many, or perhaps most, of these irreducible ruptures become so by mere time and neglect, and might at first have been returned; but when they ard got into this state, they are capable of no relief from surgery but the application of a suspensory bag, to take oil’ or lessen the incon- venience arising from the weight of the scrotum. “ People in this situation should be particu- larly careful not to make any attempts beyond their strength, nor aim at feats ol agility; they