CATARACT. 312 the lingers, until the hlaile takes the proper di- partly by the bright extremity of the knife being I ruction. (11 easel.) seen within the space in question, and partly by I Mr. Ware has seen operators, through a fear the tactns cruclilus, such a direction is to be given I ol wounding the iris, introduce and bring out the to the instrument, that its point may project from ft instrument at a considerable distance before the the place of its entrance nearly in a direct line I union ol the cornea and sclerotica; in consc- towards the intended place of its exit out of the I quence of which, the incision from one side of the cornea, but a little higher; while the posterior | cornea to the other has been made too small to surface of the blade is to be conveyed across the I allow the easy extraction of the cataract, although anterior chamber exactly parallel to the iris, ft from above downward, it was fully large enough The knife is to be cautiously pushed on, neither I lor this purpose. Mr. Ware has also sometimes too quickly, nor too slowly, with its point con- I observed, that though the punctuation of the cor- tinually directed somewhat upwards above thejl nea, from side to side, has been properly' con- part, where it is to pass out again, until the point I ducted, and its section, afterwards, to ail appear- arrives near the inner edge of the cornea ; but, I ance, effectually completed, yet, on account of in the transverse passage of the knife, its edge-1 the frictions, employed to disengage the iris from should not be suffered either to go nearer to, or I the edge of the instrument, the knife, in cutting further from, the iris, as every turn of the blade downward, has been carried between the layers of backwards, or forwards, opens the upper angle oil the cornea, and, consequently, though the inci- the wound, when the aqueous humor immediately sion has appeared externally, to be of its proper size ; internally, it has been much too small for allowing the cataract to be easily extracted. In this case, the incision must be enlarged, by means of a pair of curved blunt-pointed scissars, which should be introduced at the part, where the knife first entered the cornea. ( Ware.) Beer subdivides the first stage of this opera- tion into four, each of which, he says, claims the utmost attention, if it be wished to make the in- cision in the cornea in every respect proper : the first is the introduction of the knife through the cornea into the anterior chamber ; the second is directing the knife towards the place where its point is to be brought out again; the third is bringing out the point, and guiding the knife in continuing the incision in the cornea ; and the fourth is the finishing of that incision. As Beer states, a completely well made incision in the cornea, must, in the first place, be of sufficient size, to let the cataract escape from the eye without the slightest impediment; and it will be large enough, if care be taken to open one half of the cornea near its edge. Secondly', it must be of a proper shape, its margin not being triangular, nor notched, but evenly rounded. In general, says Beer, no greater disadvantage can happen than that of having too small an incision in the cornea; for, even when the cataract is pressed out of such an opening, portions of it are alway's left behind, which afterwards cannot be extracted without trouble ; and though the sight may be at the moment restored, it will be for- tunate, if the eye be not afterwards spoiled by the effects of inflammation. When the incision is triangular, or notched, its edges cannot be put smoothly together so as to be healed by the first intention, which, however, is highly necessary, and the consequence is a vvhite, ugly scar, which is slowly produced with inflammation, and forms a greater or lesser permanent impediment to vision downwards, though the patient be capable of seeing the smallest objects, which are straight before him. According to Beer, when the knife is to be introduced, its point should enter the cornea, about one-eightli of a line from its edge, and one- fourth of a line above its transverse diameter, directed obliquely towards the iris, with its edge turned downwards, by which means, the point will pass immediately into the anterior chamber. As soon as it has arrived there, which is indicated escapes, and the iris not only falls close against?! j the posterior surface of the blade, but, sometimes)! I even under the edge, so as to throw the young I operator into the greatest embarrassment. liS the point of the knife has now been favourably® brought out, the surgeon is to continue to push! it on, without pressing it downwards, or making* a sawing motion with it, until the last stage otj the operation, viz. that in which the incision is* finished. However, as soon as the point of that knife has passed out of the cornea, and reacheJ| the inner canthus, attention must be paid, first J to that part of the blade, which is yet in the an-J terior chamber, so that the iris may not fall un- I der its edge, and the knife 'may not take an»r erroneous direction; secondly, to the point oil the knife, which continually' projects more ana more, so that the inner canthus may not bad wounded, which accident, though trivial in itself,! would make the unprepared patient suddenly anil! involuntarily drawback his head. The only'wayJ of preventing this injury, says Beer, is regularly! to incline the handle more backwards and down-J wards, in proportion as the point passes furthest out of the anterior chamber. Thirdly, at the! period, when the last piece of the cornea is to bijj cut, the knife should be pushed on very slowly. ■ for otherwise the lens, and with it a part of thd| vitreous humor may be discharged, as now thdl muscles of the eye are acting, and compressinyj this organ, with the greatest force, and in ohjl persons especially, the loose conjunctiva, afte* the cornea is cut through, comes against the knife* and is apt to be wounded. At the time, when th<M operator finishes the incision in the cornea, the® assistant is to let the upper ey'elid cover the eye? and a few- seconds are to be allowed for the patient* to recover from his fright. In the second stage of the operation, Beeil* directs the assistant again steadily to hold thu patient’s head in the same manner, as during thej cutting of the cornea ; but, the upper eyelid, ha say's, must be carefully and effectually raised! without touching the ey'e-ball in the least, or let-* ting the ends of the fingers project beyond the* edge of the tarsus. The operator is to depress the lower eyelid with his fore-finger, which is not) to be removed away' from the eye, but gentlyj applied to the lower part of it with the inter-) vention of the eyelid, by which means, the cata- ract-lance, or capsule-needle, may be more readily , and easily introduced under the flap of the cornea