7o4 LACHRYMAL ORGANS. ounces of rose, or elder-flower water.” (Ad- ditional lit:marks on the Epiphora.) In a modern periodical work may be perused some interesting remarks by M. Nicod, which perfectly accord with the sentiment already ex- pressed, that whatever may be its primary seat, the chronic inflammation is not generally limited to the inside of the eyelids, but extends through- out the membranous lining of the sac and nasal duct, and, that this circumstance, in conjunction with the altered and viscid nature of the secre- tions, accounts for their not readily descending into the nose, but regurgitating through the puncla. M. Nicod also relates cases exemplify- ing that the ointment applied to the inside of the eyelids actually passes with the matter into the lachrymal sac, and thence into the nose, so as to act upon and cure the chronic inflam- mation of the sac and nasal duct, as well as that of the Meibomian glands and lining of the eyelids. (See Revue Medicate IJistoriquc, 8fC. T. 1, p. 156', 8vo. Paris, 1820.) The pro- ceedings for adoption, when the nasal duct is obstructed, will now be considered. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct.—That a per- manent closure of this canal does not so fre- quently attend diseases of the lachrymal organs, as writers have generally imagined, must be evi- dent from the remarks already delivered; and also that its perviousness, when interrupted partly by inflammation and thickening of its lining, and partly by the viscid curdy nature of the matter, may generally be restored, without thrusting any probes, tubes, or other instruments down the passage, (measures, more likely, under these cir- cumstances, to do harm, than good,) is a fact, which is no longer questionable. The treatment, necessary in such cases, must be already intel- ligible from what has been said in the preceding sections, the indication being the diminution of the thickened state of the mucous membrane, by means adapted to the acute, or chronic form of the inflammation, and, in many cases, the cor- rection also of the morbid state of the Meibo- mian glands and internal membrane of the eye- lids. It is only when the treatment, conducted upon these mild principles, is found ineffectual, that the surgeon should think of examining the state of the nasal duct, and learning, by the introduction of a fine probe into the passage, whether any permanent stricture, or obstruction, is present. It does not appear to me, that it is a matter of much importance, whether the probe be made of whalebone, as Beer recommends, or of silver; but, that it should not be too thick is a thing certainly deserving greater attention. Sup- posing there is no direct opening through the skin into the lachrymal sac, one should be made with a lancet. However, a mere puncture will suffice, as a large incision, beginning just below the tendon of the orbicularis palpebrarum mus- cle, and extending in a semilunar form, nearly an inch downwards and outwards, as used to be the old practice, can here answer no rational object, the surgeon merely having occasion for a small direct opening, through which he may conve- niently pass a small probe, for the purpose of ascertaining the state of the nasal duct. ‘‘The probe, (as Mr. M'Kcnzie observes,) is to be introduced horizontally till it touches the nasal side of the sac; it should then be raised into a vertical position, and its point directed downwards and a little backwards. Turning the probe upon its axis, we pass it from the sac into the duct; and as we continue to press it gently downwards, the instrument, if the sac is pervious, enters the nose. If its point meets with some obstruction, we must not immediately conclude, that there is an obliteration of the duct. We must press down the probe a little more strongly, yet with- out violence, turning it round between the fingers, and giving it different directions. By these means, the obstacle is frequently overcome, and the probe suddenly descends. If the obstacle remains as before, and is extremely linn, still this is not sufficient ground for us to conclude, that there is a real obliteration,” because, as the author proceeds to point out, the difficulty may arise from a mere thickening of the mucous mem- brane and swelling and induration of its cryptae. (M‘ Kcnzie on the Lachrymal Organs, p. 78.) W hen the probe has entered a good way down the nasal duct, and becomes, as it were, wedged, lleer leaves the instrument in this position, until the next time of dressing, taking care, however, to fix it to the forehead, so that it may not slip out again. At the same time, he introduces into the lachrymal sac a tent, which he keeps in with a piece of sticking plaster. (Lchre von den AugenJcr. B. 2, 168;) a measure which I conceive may be advantageously dispensed with. When, at length, the probe can be made to pass with some trouble into the nostril, Beer recom- mends introducing the instrument regularly every day, until the increased diameter of the passage allows it to be put in and withdrawn without the slightest difficulty. The period is now arrived, when Beer conceives, that some measure should be taken for rendering the per- viousness of the nasal duct complete and perma- nent,and thus entirely re-establishing the efficiency of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs. But, says this author, whoever merely aims at restoring the natural diameter of the nasal duct by mechanical means, fulfils only one, and that not the most essential indication. And, in order that the duct may retain its natural diameter, and the tears and mucus descend freely into the nose, it is necessary, that the morbid state of the mu- cous membrane be first removed, and the action of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs rectified again ; objects, which cannot be per- formed by any mechanical means. Hence, Beer places considerable stress upon the necessity of obviating every unfavourable state of the health, likely to affect the mucous membrane of the la- chrymal sac. For the purpose of restoring the ^natural diameter of the nasal duct, the experience of many years has convinced him, that pieces of violin catgut, which are to be gradually increased in size, are the best. The end of the piece, which is to be introduced, is to be first softened a little between the teeth, straightened, and dip- ped in sweet oil. Then at least six inches of it are to be introduced, so that its lower end may be easily drawn out of the nostril; a business, which Beer always lets the patient do himself. The upper portion of the catgut is coiled up, and kept within a little linen compress on tiie patient’s forehead. Beer also places in the