610 HERNIA. opening of the canal, or passage, through which the spermatic cord passes before it emerges, ihe inner one, at which the viscera first protrude in the most common cases of inguinal hernia, is situated about an inch and a half from the abdominal ring, in the direction towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; or, according to Hesselbach, the inguinal canal is almost an inch and a half in length, the average distance of the outer pillar of the abdominal ring, from the inner pillar of what he terms the poste- rior ring, being about sixteen lines.' (Op. cit. P- 14.) This inner opening is rather nearer the pubes, than the ileum, and its upper border is formed by the lower edge of the internal oblique, and transverse muscles, which can be plainly felt with the finger, introduced upward and outward into the abdominal ring. “ The precise point, at which the hernia most commonly begins, (says Scarpa,) is that which corresponds, in the foetus, to the communication of the tunica vaginalis with the peritoneum, and, in the adult, to the passage of the spermatic cord under the transverse muscle. In the sound state, the peritoneum presents at this part a small fun- nel-like depression, the depth of which increases in proportion as the spermatic cord is pulled from above downwards. It is this small pouch, this sort of digital appendage, whose progressive aug- mentation constitutes the hernial sac. Resting upon the anterior surface of the spermatic cord, it first makes its appearance under the inferior edge of the trasverse muscle; thence it extends itself in the separation of the inferior fleshy fibres of the internal oblique muscle, always following the spermatic cord, in front of which it is situated; and after having in this manner passed through the whole of the canal, which extends from the iliac region to the pubes, it lastly protrudes at its external orifice, which is the inguinal (or abdo- minal) ring, properly so called. In all this track, the hernial sac, as well as the spermatic cord, is situated above the femoral arch, the direction of which it follows. The canal, which it tra- verses, is of a conical shape, the apex of which is towards ihe flank, and the base at the exter- nal orifice of the ring.” (Scarpa, Traite dcs Hernies, p. 44, 45.) The epigastric artery runs behind the sper- matic cord, along the inner margin of the inter- nal opening of the above canal, then upwards and inwards, so as to pass at the distance of half an inch, or an inch from the upper extremity of the outer opening, or abdominal ring. In common cases of inguinal hernia, the vis- cera, protruded at the inner opening, of the in- guinal canal, lie over the spermatic cord, and form a tumor on the outside of the abdominal ring. When the viscera have entered the above de- scribed digital pouch of the peritoneum, but do not protrude through the abdominal ring, the case is sometimes termed an incomplete inguinal hernia ; and complete when they pass out of that opening. The viscera 'mhy continue for a long while quite within the inguinal canal, and even become strangulated there: sometimes, also, they are prevented from passing further towards the ring by some kind of impediment; and, in this circumstance, if the hernial sac have any addition made to its contents, it may expand be- tween the external and internal oblique muscles, as Hesselbach had an opportunity of seeing in the body of a female. (LTebcr den Urtprung, dcr Leisten-und Schenkelbriiche, p. 28.) ihe stricture may take place either at the in- ternal or external opening of the inguinal canal. In recent and small hernia, according to Mr. A. Cooper, the strangulation is most frequently situated at the inner opening; in large old rup- tures, at the abdominal ring. Even when the parts are completely protruded out of the latter opening, the strangulation may exist at the in- ner one: but, there may occasionally be two strictures, viz. one at each opening. (See Law- rence on Ruptures,p. 183, Edit. 3.) Ihe hernial sac descends through the abdo- minal ring over the spermatic cord, and is covered by a fascia, sent off from the tendon of the external oblique muscle. Beneath this fas- cia, the cremaster muscle is also situated over the sac, which, after it has descended a certain way, lies on the tunica vaginalis, as well as the spermatic cord. As the epigastric artery naturally runs first behind the spermatic cord, and then along the inner margin of the internal opening of the ring, and as the viscera are protruded over the cord, they must be situated on the outer side of the artery, which runs first behind the neck of the sac, and then on its inner side. Hence, the inner margin of the sac, when inspected on the side towards the abdomen, seems to be formed, as it were, by the track of the vessel. (See Law- rence, p, 179.) That this is the ordinary situa- tion of the epigastric artery, in relation to the inguinal hernia, is confirmed by the concurrent testimonies of Camper, Chopart, Desault, Sa- batier, A. Cooper, Hesselbach, Scarpa, &c. and by preparations to be seen in almost every museum. In recent inguinal herniae, the internal and external openings of the ring are at some di- stance from each other, the first being situated obliquely upwards and outwards in relation to the former; but, the pressure of the protruded viscera, gradually forces the internal opening more towards the pubes, and nearer to the ab- dominal ring, so as to render the posterior side of the neck of the hernial sac, and of the ingui- nal canal, very short. (Hesselbach, p. 29.) Thus, in large herniae of long standing, fhe opening into the abdomen is almost direct, and the epigastric artery becomes situated nearer the pubes, than in the natural state. Though such is the ordinary direction, in • which a bubonocele protrudes, there are occa- sional varieties. In one of these, the viscera, instead of descending through the canal of the ring, are at once thrust through the abdominal ring itself, and the opening into the belly is then direct: the hernial sac, instead of passing on the external side of the spermatic vessels, as is usual, now lies on their inner, or pubic side ; and the epigastric artery, which is commonly situated behind, now pursues its course, in front of the sac, at its usual distance from the upper and outer angle of the abdominal ring. The following is Scarpa’s description of the displacement of the epigastric artery in the greater number of cases of inguinal hernia, “This artery, which, in the natural state, runs