Ill ANEURISM. known again. Lastly, the cartilages and the bones themselves are not exempt from the mis- chief, which the aneurismal swelling produces in all the surrounding parts: they are gradually destroyed, and, at length, not the least trace of their substance remains, just in the same way as the bones of the cranium are destroyed by fungous tumors of the dura mater. (See Dam Mater ) Even the cartilages of the larynx, and rings of the trachea, are sometimes destroyed; this tube is pierced, and the blood escapes into it, or the aneurism bursts into the oesophagus. (Boyer, Traili ties Maladies ChirurgicaUs, T. 2, t. 99.) As I shall hereafter explain, however, the pres- sure of an aneurismal tumor more quickly pro- duces an absorption of bone, than of cartilage. "While an aneurism is small and recent, it does not generally cause much pain, nor seriously impede the functions of the limb. But, when it has increased, several complications are pro- duced. Thus, the dragging of the saphenal nerve, by femoral aneurisms, frequently occa- sions acute pain in the course of this nerve as far as the great toe. The distention of the sciatic nerve by the popliteal aneurism, sometimes brings on intolerable pain, which extends to all the parts to which this nerve is distributed, and which can hardly ever be appeased by the topical use of opiate applications. The compression of the veins and lymphatics gives rise to oedema, numbness, and coldness of the limb. And, finally, the long-continued pressure of the aneu- rism on the neighbouring bones causes their destruction. (Buyer, p. 105, T. 2.) In cases of true aneurism, the coats of the artery are not always in the same state, the kind of changes observed depending upon the progress of the tumor. In the- early stage of the dis- ease, either the whole cylinder of the vessel, or only a part of its circumference, is dilated; but, this period is generally of short duration, espe- cially in arteries of middling size, because their middle coat is capable of less resistance, than that of the larger arteries, like the aorta, where this coat is yellowish, firm, arid very elastic. As Breschct remarks, this difference of resistance in the middle coat of the aorta, and the branches given off from it, accounts for the rarity of true aneurisms either in the small arteries, or those of middling size, and their greater frequency in the principal ti unk of the arterial system. At length, in consequence of the increasing distention, some of the coats of the artery, pos- sessing the least elasticity, give way, and these ire found to be the internal and middle coats, while the external one still makes resistance, md continues to be more and more dilated by he lateral impulse of the blood. The second stage of true aneurism, is that ■vlrich is mostly met with, that, in which the umor increases more rapidly, and therefore )cgins to excite greater attention. The disease, vlien it has attained this form, is in point of fact io longer a true aneurism; but a case which VIonro distinguished by the name of the cuu- eculive, or external mixed false aneurism. In his stage, the patient’s life is endangered, and oath often brought on by the rupture of the unior. Examinations of the dead subject, uider these circumstances, have frequently led o mistaken notions, and, doubtless, if various swellings of this kind had not been found in dif- ferent degrees, or stages, in the same individual, one might be disposed to join Scarpa in the belief, that no aneurism consists of a dilatation of all the arterial coats. (Breschet, Fr. Truml. of Mr. Hodgum’s work, p. 128, 129.) The futse aneurism is always attended with at least a rupture, or giving way of the inner coat of the vessel, and usually with a breach in both this and the muscular coat, the outer elastic tunic forming the pouch in which the blood collects. But, after the swelling has attained a certain size, this coat also bursts, and then the blood either becomes diffused or a large circum- scribed space is formed for it by the condensation of the surrounding cellular membrane. False aneurisms, when produced by a wound, or punc- ture, are of course from the first attended with a division of all the coats of the vessel. This form of the disease is often seen at the bend of the arm, where the artery is exposed to injury in venesection. (See Hemorrhage.) In this cir- cumstance, as soon as the puncture is made, the blood gushes out with unusual force, and in a bright scarlet, irregular, interrupted current; flowing out, however, in an even, and less rapid stream, when pressure is applied higher up, than the \vound. These last are the most decisive marks of the artery being opened; for blood may issue from a vein with great rapidity, and in a broken current, when the vessel is turgid, and situated immediately over the artery, which imparts its motion to it. The surgeon endea- vours precipitately to stop the hemorrhage by pressure, and in general a diffused f ulse aneurism is the result. The external wound in the skin is closed, so that the blood cannot escape; but, this does not hinder it from passing into the cellular substance. The swelling, thus produced, is uneven, often knotty, and extends upward and downward along the track of the vessel. The skin is also usually of a dark purple colour. Its size in- creases, as long as the internal hemorrhage continues, and, if this should proceed beyond certain bounds, mortification of the limb ensues. Such is the dfused Jalse aneurism from a wound. The circumscribed false aneurism, from a wound, or .puncture, arises in the following man- ner. When proper pressure has been made in the first instance, so as to suppress the he- morrhage; but, the bandage lias afterwards been removed too soon, or before the artery has healed, the blood passes through the unclosed wound, or that which it has burst open again, into the cellular substance. As this lias now become agglutinated by the preceding pressure, the bloo.d cannot diffuse itself into its cells, and, consequently, a mass of it collects in the vicinity of the aperture of the artery, and distends the cel- lular substance into the form of a sac. Sometimes, though not often, this circumscribed false aneu- rism, originates immediately after the opening is made in the artery. This chiefly happens when the aperture in the vessel is exceedingly small, and, consequently, when the hemorrhage takes place so slowly, that the blood, which is first effused, coagulates, and prevents the en- trance of that which follows into the cavities of the cellular substance, aqd of course, its diffu- sion. False aneurisms, proceeding from the rup-