345 COENEA. The ulcer of the cornea, as Scarpa remarks, lias this, in common with all solutions ofcon- tinuitv in the skin, where this is delicate, tense, and endowed with exquisite sensibility, that, at its first appearance, it is of a pale ash-colour; has its edges high, and irregular ; creates sharp pain; discharges, instead of pus, an acrid serum, and tends to spread widely and deeply. Such is the precise character of ulcers upon the cornea, and such is the nature of those upon the nipples of the mammae; the glans penis; lips; apex ot the tongue; the tarsi; the entrance of the meatus auditorius externus ; nostrils; &c. Ulcers of this description, neglected, or ill-treated, speedily enlarge, make their way deeply, and destroy the parts in which they are situated. If they spiead superficially upon the cornea, the transparency of this membrane is destroyed ; it they proceed deeply, and penetrate the anterior chamber of the aqueous humor, this fluid escapes, and a fistula of the corned may ensue ; and if it should form a larger opening in it, besides the exit of the aqueous humor, it occasions another more griev- ous malady than the ulcer itself, namely, a pro- lapsus of a portion of the iris ; an escape ol the crystalline lens and vitreous humor; in short, a total destruction of the whole organ of sight. It is therefore of the highest importance, as soon as an ulcer appears upon the cornea, to impede its growing larger, as much as the nature of it will permit; the morbid process should be converted into a healing one, and the surgeon must exert his skill with more attention, the more extensive and deep the ulceration has proceeded. Accord- ing to Scarpa, the cicatrix of a larger ulcer im- pairs the texture of the cornea so much, that the injury is irreparable. Yet, Dr. Vetch assures us, that when a slough covers an ulcer of con- siderable extent, and is taken off with great caution, so as not to wound the inner tunic of the cornea; or when it cannot be removed, if it be slightly scarified, and divided; the cornea may recover its transparency after two-thirds of it have been in this state. (Pract. Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 51.) They, who inculcate, that no external appli- cation can be adopted with benefit, for the cure of this disease, before the acute ophthalmy has been subdued, or, at least, diminished, are, in Scarpa’s opinion, deceived. Experience teaches, that local remedies ought, in the very first instance, to be applied to the ulcer, such as are appropriate to lessen the increased morbid irritability, and stop the destructive process going on ; afterwards such means should be taken, as will cure the ophthalmy, if it does not subside gradually, as the ulcer heals. It is a fact, confirmed by repeated observation, that it is the ulcer which keeps up the ophthalmy, not the ophthalmy the ulcer. The case, however, is to be excepted, in which the ulcer makes its appearance in the height of a severe ophthalmy. Here the first indication is to abate inflammation, before attempting to heal the sore. It is true, that when the little abscess of the ■ cornea breaks, the symptoms of acute ophthal- yny are aggravated; the redness of the con- junctiva is increased, as well as the turgid state of its vessels; but it is equally certain, that it appeiis from no other cause, than an increased inflammation in the part, in consequence of the augmented sensibility in the ulcerated spot of the cornea. As soon as this increase of sensi- bility in the ulcer ot the cornea ceases, or abates, in violence, the ophthalmy retreats with equal speed, and, finally, when the ulcer heals, the in- flammation disappears gradually, or, at most, requires only the use of an astringent, and cor- roborant collyrium, for a few days. Analogous examples every day occur in practice, in ulcers of other parts, besides the cornea; particularly in little foul ulcers on the inside of the lips, on the apex of the tongue, on the nipples, on the glans penis, which, as was described above, at their first appearance, assume an ash-coloured surface, excite inflammation of the part in which they are seated, and cause a very troublesome itching and ardent heat in the part affected. To subdue this inflammation, we do nothing more, and the vulgar do the same, than repel the excessive irritability in these ulcers, and convert the ulcerative pro- cess into cicatrization : this done, the surround- ing inflammation immediately disappears of itself. Such speedy and good effects may be obtained by caustic. It immediately destroys the naked extremities of the nerves in the ulcerated part, and soon removes the diseased irritability in the part affected; it converts the ash-coloured sur- face of the ulcer, and the serous discharge upon it, into an eschar and scab, which, as a kind of epidermis, moderates the contact of the neigh- bouring parts upon the ulcer, and at length con- verts the process of ulceration into that of granu- lation and cicatrization. For cauterizing the ulcer of the cornea, the caustic, to which Scarpa gives the preference, is the argentum nitratum. It must be scraped to a point, like a crayon pencil, and the eyelids being opened perfectly, and the upper eyelid sus- pended, by means of Pellier’s elevator, the ulcer of the cornea is to be touched with the apex suf- ficiently to form an eschar. Should any of the caustic dissolve in the tears, the eye must be copiously bathed with warm milk. At the in- stant the caustic is applied, the patient complains of a most acute pain; but this aggravation is amply compensated, by the ease experienced a few minutes after the operation; the burning heat in the eye ceases, as it were by a charm ; the eye and eyelids become capable of motion without pain; the flux of tears and the turgidity of the vessels of the conjunctiva decrease; the patient can bear a moderate light, and enjoys repose. These advantages last while the eschar adheres to the cornea. On the separation of the eschar, sometimes at the end of two, three, or four days after the ap- plication of the caustic, the primary symptoms of the disease recur, especially the smarting and burning pain at the ulcerated part of the cornea; the effusion of tears; the restraint in moving the eye and .eyelids ; and the aversion to light; but all these inconveniences are less in degree than before. At their recurrence, the surgeon, without delay, must renew the application of the argentum nitratum, making a good eschar, as at first, upon the whole surface of the ulcer, which will, as before, be followed by perfect case in the eye. The application of the caustic is, il re- quired, to be repeated a third time, that is, if upon the separation of tiie eschar, the extreme irritability in the ulcer is not exhausted, and its