ANEURISM. 138 by Scarpa, &c. or-by various contrivances, like those of the serre-noeud, the presse-artere, and Assalini s forceps, all require the exposure of the artery; and if commendable, therefore, cannot be so on the principle of saving the patient the pain of an operation, but because they are more ef- fectual than the employment of the ligature. This last point remains to be proved. From the comparatively small number of instances, in which the preceding inodes of compression have been practised, I could quote several examples of failure, were it necessary. With regard to Mr. Crampton’s second as- sertion, that the division of the inner coats of the vessel, so far from being essential to the pro- cess of obliteration, not unfrequentlv defeats it, I think the last part of the observation is altogether unproved. We must admit, that the division of the inner coats is not essential, because arteries sometimes become obliterated under a variety of circumstances, in which such division is not made ; but still, the great question remains, whe- ther it renders the process more certain. Mr. Crampton founds his conclusion, that it not un- frequently prevents the obliteration, and gives rise to secondary hemorrhage, upon a few very uncommon cases, in which aneurismal swellings have taken place above the ligature. (See War- ner’s Case, p. 123 of this Diet ionurp.') Here Mr. Crampton presumes, without proof, that the oc- currence happened from the division of the inner coats of the artery, though Mr. Warner himself suspected, with more probability, that it proceeded from a diseased state of the vessel. Besides, this event, be it produced in whatever manner it may, is so rare, that I only know of three examples of it on record, and have never known it occur dur- ing the last 23 years, that I have been in the constant habit of seeing numerous operations per- formed. In Mr. Warner’s time, such large liga- tures were also in use, that it appears to me, they were more likely merely to press the sides of the artery together, like Mr. Crampton’s presse-ar- terc, than effect a complete division of the inner coats of the vessel, as is accomplished by the small ligatures in modern use. Those metallic instruments, intended to be ap- plied directly to an exposed artery, for the pur- pose of obliterating it by compression, are liable, as Scarpa remarks, to all the inconveniences, which are inseparable from the presence of hard bodies, introduced, and kept for several days in the bottom of a wound; especially when this is recent, in which case, they cannot be retained in a proper direction without difficulty, or exactly at such a depth, as will not be attended with hurtful pressure upon the wound itself, and important parts in its vicinity. And, with regard to the forceps of Assalini, Morteggia has observed, “ if the obliteration of the artery is retarded, the for- ceps equally divides the artery by causing the death of the included portion. I also saze, in one cose, the exnemity of the instrument resting at the bot- tom of the wound on the subjacent femoral vein, rupture its anterior half also, although we were sure it had not hern included bp it. (Instituz. ili Chir. Ed. 2, T. 2.) And although Cumano, in a case of popliteal aneurism, obtained on the fourth day, the closure of the femoral artery, by means of Assalini’s forceps, lip does not conceal, that the cure of the wound was rather difficult; and, in comparing the ligature with tho forceps, he adds his belief, that if an equal result is derived from both, the preference will be given to the ligature, unless the other instrument be brought to such perfection that the inconveniences will be re- moved, from which lie found it not exempt, though the operation succeeded. (Atnali di Med. del Dottore Omodt i, Seitembre l 807, p. 309, and Scarpa on Aneurism, p. 45, Ed. 2.) Some ex- periments were a few years ago instituted by Mr. Travers, in order to determine the merit of As- salini’s forceps, compared with the ligature: and his conclusion from the facts elucidated in the investigation is, that the ligature is a more pow- erful means for effecting the obliteration of the tube of an artery. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vul. G, p. 643, Hfr.) My friend, Mr. Lawrence, a few years ago, extended to operations for aneurism the method of tying the artery with a very small firm silk liga- ture, the whole of which is immediately after- wards cut off, with the exception of the noose and knot, and an- endeavour then made to heal the wound by the first intention. In a pase of popliteal aneurism, Mr. Carwardine, late of Thaxted, tied the femoral artery in this man- ner, and the wound united entirely by the first intention, not a particle of pus having been formed at any time; and the part continued perfectly sound at the distance of some months from the operation. On the 29th of March, 1817, I saw Mr. Lawrence try the practice in a similar case: with the exception of the integu- ments, the wound united by adhesion. However it continued to discharge a small quantity of mat- ter till the end of May, when the ligature came away, and it healed firmly. In an aneurism of the humeral artery, Mr. R. Watson, of Stour- port, Worcestershire, tied that vessel and cut off the ends of the ligature, as proposed by Mr. Law- rence. The operation was done on the 2d of March, and the wound was quite healed by the ] Oth of April. On the 3d of May, a small tu- bercle which had been felt under the skin, in the centre of the cicatrix, appeared above the skin, and proved to be the knot of the ligature. There was no inflammation, nor discharge; but, the ring of the ligature was firmly impacted in the centre of the cicatrix. In about a week from this time, the whole of it was expelled. In an- other case, where Mr. Hodgson tied the ulnar ar- tery, and cut off fhe ends of the small ligature, the skin healed over the vessel, but a firm almost cartilaginous knot gradually formed, from the centre of which the bit of ligature was extracted five or six months afterwards by a small puncture. For additional observations on this part of the subject, See Med. Cliir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 490, <$fc. Mr. Carwardine’s case is a strong one in fa- vour of this method : but, I am not aware, that sufficiently numerous trials of it have been made to enable one to form a correct estimate of its merits. With the exception of the example communicated by Mr. Carwardine to Mr. Law- rence, I apprehend, that, on the whole, the cures on record cannot be said to have been completed sooner, than generally occurs in other instances, in which one end of the small circular ligature is left for the removal of the noose. Thus, in two cases, where the practice was tried by Mr Norman, of Bath, the results were by no means