HEMORRHAGE. -589 wot be emplovcd without an operation to expose the artery. Wheu there is a small wound in a large artery, the following plan may be tried: a tourniquet is to be applied, so as to command the (low of blood into the vessel. The edges of the external wound arc next to be brought into contact. Then, a compress, shaped like a blunt cone, and which is best formed of a series of compresses, gradually increasing in size, tis to be placed with its apex exactly on the situation of the wound in the artery. This graduated compress, as it is termed, is then to be bound on the'part with a roller. In this manner, I once healed a wound of the superficial palmar arch, in a young lady in Great Pulteney-street. The outward wound was very small, and though the hemorrhage was profuse, I conceived, that it might be permanently stopped, if compression could be so made as to keep the external wound incessantly and firmly covered for the space of a day or two. At first, I tried a compress of lint, bound on the part with a roller; but this proving ineffectual, 1 took some pieces of money, from the size of a farthing to that of a half crown, and, wrapping them up in linen, put the smallest one accurately over the wound, so ns completely to cover it. Then the others were arranged, and all of them were firmly con- fined with a roller, and the arm kept as quiet as possible in a sling. They were taken off after three days, and no hemorrhage ensued. It is to be observed, that the palmar facia, in this instance, would prevent the compression from operating on the vessel; but the case shews, that this artery, when wounded, is capable of healing, if the blood be completely prevented from getting out of the external wound by the proper application of compression. Were the outer wound too large to admit of this plan, it would probably be the safest practice to cut down, at once, to the ulnar artery, and put a ligature round it, though as this would only certainly stop the bleeding from one end of the vessel in the hand, pressure on the wound would yet be necessary. I have never seen a surgeon succeed in taking up the artery in the hand. Besides compressing the wounded part of the artery, some surgeons also apply a longitudinal compress over the track of the vessel above the wound, with a view of weakening the flow of blood into it. Whatever good effect it may have in this way, is more than counterbalanced by the difficulty which it must create to the circulation in the arm. If the graduated compress be pro- perly arranged, an effusion of blood cannot pos- sibly happen, and pressure along the course of the artery must at all events be unnecessary. After relaxing the tourniquet, if no blood es- cape from the artery, the surgeon (supposing it to be the brachial artery wounded) should feel the pulse at the wrist, in order to ascertain, that the compression employed is not so powerful as entirely to impede the circulation in the fore-arin and hand. The arm is to be kept quietly in a sling, and, in forty-eight hours, if no bleeding take place, there will be great reason to expect that the case will do well. In another work, I have given an engraving and description of an ■nstrument, invented by Plenk, for making press- ure on the wounded brachial artery, at the bend of the arm, without pressing upon the whole cir cumference of the limb, and consequently with- out stopping the circulation. No one, however, would prefer compression when large arteries are injured, except in the kind of cases, to which we have just now adverted, or in those in which the wounded vessel can be firmly compressed against a subjacent bone. Sometimes, the compresses slip oft; or the bandages become slack, and a fatal hemorrhage may arise; and a still greater risk is that of mortification from the constricted state of the limb. When the method is tried, the tourniquet should always be left loosely round the limb, ready to be tightened in an instant. Some- times the external wound heals, while the open- ing in the artery remains unclosed, and a false aneurism is the consequence. TOURNIQUET. When hemorrhage takes place from a large artery in one of the limbs, where the vessel can be conveniently compressed above the wound in it, a tourniquet, judiciously applied, never fails in putting an immediate stop to the bleeding. Before the invention of this instrument, which did not take place till the latter part of the 17th century, surgery was really a very defective art. No important operation could be undertaken on the extremities, without placing the patient in the most imminent peril; and many wounds were mortal, which, with the aid of this simple con- trivance, would not have been attended with the least danger. The first invention of this instrument has been claimed by different surgeons, and even different nations. But, whoever was the inventor, it was first presented to the public in a form exceedingly simple; so much so, indeed, that it seems extra- ordinary, that its invention did not happen sooner. A small pad being placed on the prin- cipal artery of a limb, a band was applied over it, so as to encircle the limb twice. Then a stick was introduced between the two circles of the band, which was twisted : thus the pad was made to compress powerfully enough completely to stop the flow of blood into the lower part of the vessel. Although, in the Armamentarium Chirur- gicum of Scultetus, there is a plate of a machine, invented by this author for compressing the ra- dial artery, by means of a screw, J. L. Petit is universally allowed to be the first, who brought the tourniquet to perfection, by combining the circular band with a screw, so that the greatest pressure may operate on the principal artery. The advantages of the modern tourniquet are, that its pressure can be regulated with the utmost . exactness; that it operates chiefly on the point where the pad is placed, and where the main ar- tery lies; that it does not require the aid of an assistant to keep it tense; that it completely commands the flow of blood into a limb ; that it can be relaxed, or tightened in a moment; and that, when there is reason to fear a sudden re- newal of hemorrhage, it can be left slackly round the limb, and, in case of need, tightened in an instant. Its utility, however, is confined to the limbs, and as the pressure necessary to stop the flow of blond through the principal artery, com- pletely prevents the return ol blood through the