DISLOCATION. adhesion is proceeding, than to disturb the pro- cesses of nature by the frequent changes of posi- tion, which purges produce; and I am quite sure, that, in cases of compound fracture, I have seen patients destroyed by their frequent administra- tion. That which is to be done by bleeding and emptying the bowels, should be effected within an hour, or two, after the accident, before the ad- hesive inflammation arises.” (Surgical Essays, Fart 2, p. 121.) Here the fracture bed, invented by Mr. Earle, would allow purgatives to be used, without any disturbance of the limb. If the case takes a favourable course, the con- stitutional fever will not be excessive, nor will the pain and inflammation of the limb be im- moderate. Sometimes, the wound unites, more or less, without suppuration ; a circumstance particularly desirable, as tending more than any thing else to lessen the danger, by changing the case, as it were, from a compound into a simple one. In other cases, the wound is not united; but the inflammation and suppuration are not violent, nor extensive; the constitution is not dangerously disturbed; and hopes of ulti- mate success may be reasonably entertained. When the wound is disposed to heal favourably, _ adhesive plaster, with or without lint, or a pledget i of soft soap cerate, is the best dressing. In other » instances, while the suppuration is copious, and || the parts are tense and painful, emollient poul- I tices are the most eligible. IV hen the symptomatic fever, and first inflam- i| matory symptoms, are over, and much discharge | rrevails, attended with marks of approaching 1 weakness, the patient is to be allowed more food, j md directed to take bark, cordials, porter, wine, i s kc. If his nights are restless, he must have opi- I rtes; if he sweats profusely, sulphuric acid; and, U u short, all such medicines, as his particular R complaints may require, are to be prescribed. When the inflammation of a compound dislo- cation is violent, or extensive, general bleeding, i he application of leeches, and the use of fomenta- 11 ions, and poultices, are the most likely means of I essening the mischief. Yet, it is only in strong g mbits, that venesection to any extent can be I irudently practised in large cities, or crowded n iospitals. The following are the instructions, delivered by !vlr. A. Cooper, on the subject of dressings. “ If £ he patient complain of considerable pain, in the »>art, in four orfive days, the bandage maybe raised '|| o examine the wound ; and, if there be much in- flammation, a comer of the lint (or other dress- |f[‘a8) should be lifted from the wound, to give Ir ent to any matter, which may’ have formed; f j|' ut, this ought to be done with great eircum- ; B pection, as there is danger of disturbing the H dhesive process, if that be proceeding without ■suppuration. By this local treatment, it will | very now and then happen, that the wound will ■ e closed by adhesion; but, if in a few days it I e not, and suppuration take place, the matter I aould have an opportunity of escaping; and the || nt being removed, simple dressings should be I Pplied. After a week, or ten days, if there be uppuration, with much surrounding inflamma- poultices should be applied upon the wound, scenes in its neighbourhood, and upon the limb t a distance, the evaporating lotion should still be 363 employed; but, as soon as the inflammation is lessened, the poultices should be discontinued.” (iSurgical Essays, Part 2, p. 121.) In certain examples, the most skilful treatment is unavailing. The joint and limb become af- fected with considerable pain and swelling; the fever runs high; delirium comes on; and the patient may even perish from the violence of the first symptoms, the limb being generally at the same time attacked by gangrene. If these first dangers are avoided, the wound may yet not heal favourably; the inflammation may be con- siderable, or of an erysipelatous nature; large abscesses under the fasciae may be formed ; the bones may be affected with necrosis; and the hec- tical symptoms, and sinking state of the patient, may make the only chance of recovery depend upon amputation. But, even this operation is sometimes deferred till too late, and the patient must be left to his miserable fate. Whoever gives the smallest reflection to the nature of compound fractures, will perceive, that it is often a matter of the highest importance, to make a right decision at the very beginning, whether amputation should be immediately done, or whether an attempt to save the limb ought to be made. In some instances, the patient’s sole chance depends upon the operation being per- formed at once, without the least delay, and the opportunity of doing it never returns. The sur- geon should take off the limb as soon as he has seen the nature of the injury, and not wait till a general tendency to swelling and gangrene has spread through the member, and every action in the system is disturbed. Amputation, under these circumstances, is undoubtedly done with a very diminished chance of success ; and, until certain facts were adduced by Baron Larrey, Mr. Lawrence, Mr. A. C. Hutchison, and others, was of late years altogether prohibited. (See Amputation and Mortification.) But, besides this first critical period, the sur- geon often has to exercise a nice degree of judg- ment in a future stage of the case; I mean, when the suppuration is copious, the wound open, the bones carious, and the health impaired. Here the practitioner may sometimes err, in taking off a limb, that might be saved ; or, he may commit a worse fault, and make the patient lose his life, in a fruitless attempt to save the member. No precepts can form the right practitioner in this delicate part of surgery; genius alone cannot do it; the opportunity of making observations, and the talent of profiting by them, are here the things which make the consummate surgeon. It should ever be recollected, in regard to bad compound dislocations, that in young subjects, and in a salubrious air, many cases will do well, which in old persons, and in the polluted atmo- sphere of London, and crowded hospitals, would be fatal without amputation. The constitutions of some individuals are so irritable, that whether an attempt be made to save the limb, or amputation be at once per- formed, the case has a rapid and fatal termina- tion. According to Mr. A. Cooper, persons who are much loaded with fat, “ arc generally very irritable, and bear important accidents very ill: indeed, says he, they generally die, which- ever plan of treatment be pursued.’’ However,