SUTURES. 1013 : was completely cut through, together with nteguments and muscles, in such a manner the arm ouly hung by an undivided portion le skiu, about an inch wide, under which were jrge vessels. De la Peyronie tried to unite \i.rts, being convinced that it would be time gh to amputate afterwards, if the ease should ire it. He placed the two extremities- of the ed bone in their natural situation; made ■al sutures, for promoting the union of the parts; and applied a bandage to the frac- In this bandage, there were slits, or aper- ;, over the wound, to allow the dressings ; e applied. Spirit of wine, containing a muriate of ammonia, was used as a topical cation, and the fore arm, and hand, which cold, livid, and insensible, were also fo- ■ ed with the same. By these means, the al warmth was restored, and the wound was ed. In a week the dressings were removed, igh the opening in the bandage ; in a fort- : they were changed, a second time, and the id seemed disposed to heal. On the eight- i day, the healing had made considerable ress; the part had a natural appearance; he beating of the pulse was very percepti- De la Peyronie now substituted a common : for the preceding bandage, and care was i to change the dressings every ten days. >out seven weeks all applications were left nd, at the end of two months, the patient ; juite well, with the exception of a little : mess in the part. This case is one of the important in all the records of surgery; displays, in a most striking manner, what L bad wounds it is the duty of the surgeon to pt to unite; and, above all, it exemplifies ropriety of attempting to save many com- d fractures, which, judged of only from first irances, would lead almost any one to resort iputation. In such cases, when the divided are put in contact, the appearances are altered. om what has been already stated, it appears surgeons, a considerable time back, did not ice sew up every sort of wound; though onsiderations, which led them not to close mund, were erroneous, as may, perhaps, be vith respect to the apprehension of bleeding xfoliations. The best modern practitioners >y sutures much less frequently than their cessors. Pibrac’s dissertation on the abuse mres, inserted in the third volume of the oirs of the Academy of Surgery, has had lerable effect in producing this change, and y safely add, this improvement in practice, judicious and enlightened practitioner op- tbe method of uniting wounds by means tures, which, he contended, ought never to opted in practice, except in certain cases in • it was absolutely impossible to keep the of the wound in contact, by means of a ile posture, and the aid of a methodical 3ge Such circumstances Pibrac represents ceedingly rare, if they ever occur at all. peaks of sutures as seldom fulfilling the in- on of the surgeon, who, in the majority of • >n which he employs them, finds liirn- necessitated to remove them, before they accomplished the wished-for end. Pibrac ves that sutures arc generally more hurtful, than conducive to the union of wounds ; and that when they succeed, they do not effect a cure more speedily than a proper bandage. He cites numerous cases of very extensive wounds of the abdomen, neck, &c. for the cure of which a bandage proved effectual, and this even in many instances in which sutures had previously failed, and cut their way through the flesh. * Louis, who adopted the opinions of Pibrac, published, in the fourth volume of Mem de VAcad. dc Chirurgic, a valuable dissertation, in which he endeavours to prove, that even the hare-lip can be better united, by means of the uniting band- age than sutures; a case, however, which the best modern surgeons very rightly agree to con- sider, for particular reasons, elsewhere noticed, (see Hare-lip), as an example, in which a su- ture is advisable. As far as I can judge, the fair statement of the matter is, that sutures are by no means re- quisite in the generality of wounds; but that there are particular cases, in which either their greater convenience, or superior efficacy, still makes them approved, and employed by all the most eminent practitioners of the present day. Since sutures cannot be practised, without addi- tional wounds being made, and pain occasioned, and since the threads always act as extraneous bodies in the parts, exciting more or less inflam- mation, and suppuration round them ; there can be no doubt that their employment is invariably wrong, whenever the sides of a wound can be maintained in contact by less irritating means, with equal steadiness and security. For, what is it which generally counteracts the wishes of the surgeon, and renders his attempts to make the opposite surfaces of wounds grow together una- vailing? Is not the general cause too high a degree of inflammation, which necessarily ends in suppuration? Are not sutures likely to aug- ment inflammation, both by the additional wounds of the needles, and the still more perni- cious irritation of the threads which always act as foreign bodies, sometimes producing not merely an increase of inflammation and suppu- ration in their track; but frequently such ul- ceration as enables them to cut their way out, or else sloughing of the parts; or, in particular con- stitutions, a very extensive erysipelatous redness. In consequence of the ulcerative process, su- tures very often cease to have the power of any longer keeping the edges of wounds in contact; as the observations of Pibrac, and, indeed, what every man may daily remark in practice, fully testify ; and the violent inflammatory symptoms, which are excited, frequently oblige the surgeon to cut the threads, and withdraw them alto- gether. But, even admitting, that, by the general adoption of sutures, some wounds would be united, which could not be so were this means of accom- plishing the union abandoned, still it must be allowed, on the other hand, that the cause of some wounds not uniting is entirely asCribable to the irritation occasioned by the sutures them- selves. Hence, if it be only computed, that as many wounds are prevented from uniting by the irritation of sutures, as other wounds which arc united by their means, and could be united by no other methods, we must still perceive, that mankind would be no sullerers, and surgery uu-