TREPHINE. 1045 epkine is very great, and the patient’s chance ‘ living is almost essentially connected with the [ mnediate performance of the operation. This nportant case has been particularly dwelt upon the writings of Mr. Pott. In the article, Head, Injuries of, I have laid wn the most remarkable symptoms of concus- n, and compression of the brain, a subject, dch every surgeon should study with earnest ,:ention, before he ever presumes to employ | ee trepan. For, sometimes these accidents are tremely difficult to be discriminated; some- nes they exist together in the same individual; j ernplication which is peculiarly embarrassing; | ,td, in every instance, where the symptoms are [ ose of concussion, the operation, so far from j : ng indicated, would be a step of all others the >jst likely to do harm, by increasing the irrita- n and inflammation of the brain and its mem- mes. A fall upon the back, or upon the head, casions a direct concussion of the brain, and s shock, not being materially weakened by the ervention of any yielding elastic structure, is i more dangerous. When a person has fallen I > >m a certain height, and pitched on his head, j . back, the buttocks, the knees, or even the I -cs of the feet; when he has been instantly prived of his senses, and then by degrees re- I ■ 'ered them and come to himself again ; the fact j "his having suffered concussion of the brain is j ar and indisputable. Concussion has likewise c en place, though in a slighter degree, when patient has been only stunned by the fall, 11 experienced a sensation of sparks. But, a 1 ltitude of degrees separate this feeble concus- nn from that, in which the substance of the in is instantaneously disorganized, so that the lent has not the possibility of recovery. The symptoms of concussion of the brain are ’ ’ended with coma, and the compression of this gan by an extravasation is also accompanied I h lethargic heaviness. How then is the sur- >n to ascertain, whether the comatose dis- f ier arises from one or the other of these affec- [ ns’ j Herein order to avoid repetitions, I beg leave refer to the observations already made in the icle quoted above. But there is one criterion f such first-rate importance, that it may prevent I umerable fatal mistakes, and, indeed, without continual recollection of it, no man ought to I ’ rash enough to interfere with this dark and I truse part of surgery. On this account, I II mention it here, notwithstanding it has ■ m already noticed elsewhere. If the patient is i * seked down and stunned directly by the blow, I remains in a state of insensibility, these pri- ‘ ry symptoms are ascribable to the concus- i. On the contrary, when the coma and loss ' sense do not take place till an hour or two r -r the blow, they are to be imputed to an ex- vasation. I The shock given to the brain by concussion st, like every other impulse communicated, 'tinue to diminish until it censes altogether, at the very time of the blow, the shock has • been forcible enough to produce alarming upturns, such symptoms will not afterwards tie on when their cause is weakened. Ilcnce, r<ason why compression can be distinguished m concussion of the brain, when there has been an interval of sense between the receipt of the blow and the occurrence of the bad symptoms. But, the distinction of the sym- ptoms into primary and consecutive cannot be made when concussion and extravasation exist together. Having made these few remarks on concussion and compression of the brain, remarks, which seemed necessary before I entered into a de- scription of the operation of the trepan, I shall next premise some observations relative to con- tusions and fractures of the skull, cases on which the most erroneous opinions have been enter- tained. It is true, that I have in another place (see Head, Injuries of) considered the subject; but, it may be better to recapitulate certain points here, because they have such immediate con- nexion with the application of the trephine. Contusions of the head not unfrequently oc- casion a small kind of tumor, which is soft in the centre, but hard and resisting at the circumfe- rence, especially when the violence has been con- siderable. Now the ease, with which the centre or seat of the extravasated fluid admits of being depressed, while the circumference remains hard and elevated, is extremely apt to give rise to the belief, that a fracture with depression has hap- pened. The true nature of this accident was first clearly explained by J. L. Petit, and since his time the proper cautions not to fall into a mistake concerning it, have been laid down by the generality of surgical writers. Often nothing is more obscure, than the dia- gnosis of fractures of the cranium: their existence indeed can only be made out with certainty, when they can be felt, or seen. Thus a fracture of the skull, attended with a wound of the scalp, and exposure of the bone, shews itself in the form of a fissure more or less wide and extensive, and taking various directions. The accident may also be known by the touch even when the soft parts continue entire, particularly if the fracture is accompanied with splinters, or the edges of the fissure are materially separated. When there are many splinters, entirely detached, a crepitus will likewise serve to explain the nature of the accident; but, unassisted bv these symptoms, imparted to him by the sight, the hearing, or the touch, the practitioner cannot at once offer a decided opinion as to whether a fracture exists, or not. In order to procure more positive information, would it be right and judicious to make several incisions and uncover the bone? But, here the surgeon would be embarrassed in the very com- mencement of his proceedings; for, how would he be able to judge where the knife should be applied? Why also should he resort to an use- less and painful operation, which (to say the best of it) could only render the patient’s cure more distant ? The symptoms, indicating compression of the brain, can alone justify an examination of the fracture. These symptoms also must be urgent and alarming ; for, when they prevail in a slight degree, bleeding and evacuations promise more benefit, than any operation on the skull, and con- sequently all examination of the part, supposed to be broken, must be unnecessary. The pre- cept, too commonly given, to cut through the scalp for the purpose of bringing the fracture