NYCTALOPIA. as occasionally been given, as an alterative mc- icine, for the relief of noli me tangerc; with ■hat good effect I cannot pretend to say. In three or four less severe cases of lupous ibercles on the face, which had made no pro- ress towards ulceration, Dr. Bateman saw the elution of muriate of barytes, taken internally, laterially amend the complaint. Sometimes, Iso, a separation ot the diseased parts from the mild has been effected with the knife, or caustic, .,d the progress of the complaint been stopped. t<./>/• Cutaneous Diseases, p. 296, (from »v|, night; and Synopsis of Uit. 3.) NYCTALOPIA. _ - - . .j,, the eye; or oiorw, to see.) An affection of ■>e sight,' in which the patient is blind in the ay-light, but sees very well at night. Nyctalopia, visits nocturnus, or day-blind- ness, vulgarly called owl-siglit, (says M. Lassus) 5 an affection in which the patient either cannot vee at all, or sees but very feebly, objects, which re in the open day-light, or situations where here is a strong light; but discerns them very veil, when they are in a darkish place, or at mnset, or in the night-time, if not immoderately lark. (See Patliologie Chirurgicale, T. 2, y. 5S9—540.) The Greek physicians are divided in their opinions concerning the now uncommon disease nyctalopia Hippocrates expressly says, “ we •all those nyctalopes who see by night.” The mthor of Dcjin. Medic. “ that they see nothing n the day-time, but have their sight by night.” On the contrary, Paulus iEgineta and Actuarius ire as explicit in asserting, that they have their sight perfect in the day-time, but are blind by light. iEtius is of the same mind, though he is thought to favour the contrary opinion, when he says, “ they see better by night than in the day, and if the moon shines they are blind.” The author of Isagoge embraces both opinions, when he says, “ they call those nyctalopes who, in the day-time, see more obscurely, at the setting of the sun more clearly, but, when it is night, much better; or, on the contrary, by day they see a little, but, in the evening, or at night, they are blind.” Galen explains the word by a night- blindness. Pliny, Varro, Nonius, Festus, Celsus, and other writers, give equally opposite definitions 8 57 and the best modern surgical writers, in calling day-blindness, nyctalopia, and night-blindness, hemeralopia. (See Callisen, Syst. Chir. IIo- dierncc, Vol. 2,p. 992 ; and Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 3,p. 479.) Nyctalopia, in the sense of day-blindness, is a very rare disease, in comparison with hemeralopia, which is a very common disorder in warm cli- mates. According to Dr. Hillary, there are a people in Siam, in the East Indies, and also in Africa, who are all of this cat-eyed species, or subject to the disease of being blind in the day- time, and seeing well by night. {Mod. Univ. Hist. Vol. 7.) The same author notices the general rarity of the disorder, and mentions his having met with but two examples of it. With respect to the causes of the complaint, Dr. Hillary observes, that it proceeds from too great a tenderness and sensibility of the iris and retina. M. Lassus thinks the causes may be of different kinds. If, for instance, (says he) there were a very small opacity, like a point, ex- actly opposite the pupil, or centre of the crystal- line lens, the pupil, contracting in the open day- light, would stop the entrance of the rays of light into the eye, and a day-blindness arise, which would be diminished by the expansion of the pupil in the shade. Here, the cure would depend upon the removal of the opacity. “ Persons, whose pupils do not move freely, but remain much dilated, and do not sufficiently contract in light situations, are also affected with nyctalopia; for, so large a quantity of the rays of light pass into their eyes, that it serves rather to destroy, than assist vision. Such persons see tolerably well, and better than the preceding class of patients, in a darkish place, and they ought to wear green spectacles in the day-time, in order to weaken the impression of the rays of light. W hen a person is shut up a long while in a dark place, the pupils become habitually dilated, and if he exposes himself suddenly and incautiously to a strong light, the eyesight may be destroyed. There are other individuals, who, from excessive sensibility of the iris, cannot bear much light: their pupils instantly contract, and close. This case (continues M. Lassus) may be brought on by too great indulgence in venereal pleasures, and in persons, who have debilitated their con- stitutions during their youth.” The same author of the disorder. Dr. Pye questions, whether these two descriptions of nyctalopia, so diametrically mentions other cases, which seem to depend upon opposite to each other, may not be reconciled by a species of irritability of the iris. In one in- considering the disorder as an intermittent one. stance, an issue in the arm effected a cure, and The difference then will only consist in the dif- he mentions the utility of blisters. He admits ferent times of the approach of the disease; that likewise with Dr. Pye cases of intermittent or of Hippocrates came on in the morning; that of periodical nyctalopia, which begin regularly in TEgineta, in the evening; both were expressly the morning, and go off in the evening, the pa- periodical, and the distance of time between the tient continuing blind, whether he kee*p himself paroxysms, in both, was respectively the same; in a dark or a light place. The cause of these in- a whole day, or a whole night. The various shapes, in which intermittents appear, very much favour, says Dr. Pye, such an opinion; and the apparent success of bark in the case, 1 ■ which heHias related, notwithstanding the un- favourable circumstances of the evacuations his patient laboured under, and the consequent necessity of its disuse, seem to confirm it in this gentleman’s mind. {Med. Ohs. and Inq. Vol. ».) v In tliis work l shall follow Callisen, ltichter, stances, which, he observes, are very uncommon, is generally seated in the primae vise, and requires emetics, resolvents, purgatives, and bark. (See Pathologic Chir. T. 2, p. 540—542. Also Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 2, p. 481.) In 1787, Baron Larrey met with a case of day-blindness in an old man, one of the galley-slaves at Brest, who hud been shut up in- cessantly for thirty-three years in a subterraneous dungeon. His long residence in darkness had had such an effect on the organs of vision, that