SAP gentle exercise; or airings in a carriage; the use of the flesh-brush, &c. are also highly ser- viceable. The constitutional treatment of rickets belongs more properly to tbe physician than the surgeon ; and it is not necessary to introduce more of the subject into a Dictionary expressly allotted to surgery. See the article Moliities Ossium, and consult particularly Buchner dc Rachiiide perfect a ct imperfecta Disput. Argent. 1754. Glisson, dc Rachitide, sive, morbo puerili. Ludg. Bat an. 1671- Bonhomme's Mem. on Rachitis, in ■ Duncan's Medical Annals for 1797. Richc- rand, Nosographie Chir. T. 3, p. 142. <^r. I Edit. 4. Leveille, in Mem. de Physiologic ct ■dc Ckirurgie, par Scarpa, Qc. Boyer, Traite dcs Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. GO/, tyc. Stan- SAll %‘S ley's Obs. m Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 4(14, Delpech Precis El&mcntaire des Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 739, dife. Timka dc Krzowite, Histurta Rachilidis, 8vo. Vindob. 1787. R. Hamilton, Remarks on Scrophulous Affections, $c. 8t'0. Loud. 1791. A. Portal. Obs. sur la Nature ct sur le Traitcment da Rachitismc, on des Courbures dc la colonne Vertebralc et de celles des Extremites, 8vo. Paris, 1797. And particularly, Lectures on the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, Diseases of Bones, Ac. by James Wilson, p. 159, fc. 8vo. Loud. 1820. RINGWORM. See Herpes. RUPTURE. A protrusion of the abdomi- nal viscera. See Hernia. SABINA. _ bines, whose priests used it in (said to be named from the Sa- their reli- gious ceremonies.) Savine. The use of the leaves of this plant, in forming the active ingre- dient in the ointment commonly preferred for keeping open blisters, has been explained in the article Blisters. The other chief surgical use of savine, is as a stimulating application for de- s stroying warts, and other excrescences. For : the latter purpose, it is generally powdered, and i mixed with an equal proportion of subacetate of copper. The same powder is also sometimes employed by surgeons for maintaining the hol- lows iuto which peas are inserted in issues. The ! best plan is, first to wet the peas, then roll them in the powder, and put them, in this state, on the issue. But, when the whole surface of the issue has risen high, above the level of the skin, the powder must be sprinkled all over the sore, so as to produce an absorption of the high gra- nulations.—Indeed, even in this manner, a good cavity often cannot be obtained ; and it becomes necessary to destroy the surface of the issue, by rubbing it with caustic potassa, or potassa cum calce. 1 i SACCHARUM SATURM. Sugar of Lead. Cerussa Acetata. Acetate of Lead. This is very extensively used in surgery, chiefly as a local application to inflamed parts, and "in the form of a lotion. See Inflammation, Col- lyrinm, Lulio, Gonorrhoea, Ophihalmy, and numerous other articles of this Dictionary, for an explanation of the uses of acetate of lead. SAL-AMMONIAC. Ammonia Muriata. Muriate of Ammonia. Employed a good deal by surgeons, as an ingredient in discutient lo- tions. See Lotio Ammon. Mur. SALIVARY FISTUL.E. See Parotid Duct. SANIES. (Latin.) A thin, serous, fetid matter, discharged from fistula:, unhealthy sores, Ac. It is sometimes tinged with blood. SARO TEUEBINTHIN7E. (Starkcifs * ft1,) ly • l’otassa: Subcarbonatis calidi, 5j. ei lerebinth, ^iij.—The oil of turpentine is gradually blended with the hot subcarbonatc of potassa in a heated mortar. Indolent swellings were formerly rubbed with this application, and, perhaps, some chronic affections of the joints might still be benefited by it. SARCOCE'LE. (from capf, flesh; and xaA*!, a tumor.) A fleshy enlargement of the testicle. (See Testicle, Diseases of.) SARCO'MA, or Sarcdsis. (from aapf, flesh.) A fleshy tumor on any part of the body. (See Tumors, Sarcomatous.) SARSAPARFLLA. The root of sarsapa- rilla was brought into Europe about 1530. It was at first reputed to possess singular efficacy in venereal cases; but afterwards lost all its fame. Sarsaparilla was again brought into no- tice by Dr. W. Huuter, who advised Dr. Chap- man to make trial of it in a bad case of phage- denic bubo; and the benefit, obtained in this in- stance, led Dr. Hunter to extend the recom- mendation of the medicine. Sir W. Fordyce stated that sarsaparilla would quickly relieve ve- nereal head-achs, and nocturnal pains, and if persisted in, cure them; that in emaciated, or consumptive habits, from a venereal cause, it was the greatest restorer of appetite, flesh, co- lour, and strength, which he knew of; that when mercurial frictions had been previously employed, it would generally complete the cure of the dis- ease of the throat, nose, palate, or spongy bones; and that it would promote the cure of blotches and ulcers, and sometimes accomplish it, even without mercury; though, in this circum- stance, there was danger of a relapse. Sir W. Fordyce pronounced sarsaparilla to he of little use in chancres; but that when these, or buboes, could not be healed by mercury, it would often cure, and always do good. He allows, however, that, in all venereal cases, sarsaparilla is not to be trusted, unless preceded by, or combined •with, the use of mercury; and he thought sar- saparilla would, probably, always cure what re- sisted mercury. (Medical Obs.andInq. Vol. I.) The celebrated Cullen considered sarsaparilla as possessing no virtues of any kind; lor, says he, “ tried in every shape, I have never found it an effectual medicine in syphilis, or any other disease.” (Mat. Med. Vol. 2.) Mr. Bromfield declares, that he never saw a 3 Q 2