634 HERNIA. large ones, it is broken through at the knot of the navel, by the pressure and weight of the contents, and is not always to be distinguished ; which is the reason why it has by some been doubted whether this kind of rupture has a hernial sac or not. “ Infants are very subject to this disease in a small degree, from the separation of the funicu- lus ; but in general they either get rid of it as they gather strength, or are easily cured by wearing a proper bandage. It is of still more consequence to get this disorder cured in females, even than in males, that its return, when they are become adult, and pregnant, may be pre- vented as much as possible; for at this time it often happens, from the too great distention of the belly, or from unguarded motion when the parts are upon the stretch. During gestation, it is often very troublesome, but, after delivery, if the contents have contracted no adhesion, they will often return, and may be kept in their place by a proper bandage. “ If such bandage was always put on in time, and worn constantly, the disease might in gene- ral be kept within moderate bounds, and some of the very terrible consequences which often attend it might be prevented. The woman who has the smallest degree of it, and who, from her age and situation, has reason to expect children after its appearance, should be particularly careful to keep it restrained. “In some the entrance of the sac is large, and the parts easily' reducible ; in others they are difficult, and in seme absolutely' irreducible. Of the last kind many have been suspended for years in a proper bag, and have given little or no trouble. They who are afflicted with this disorder, who are advanced in life, and in whom it is large, are generally subject to colics, di- arrhoeas, and, if the intestinal canal be at all obstructed, to very troublesome vomitings. (Hence, patients are often supposed to labour under a stricture, when they really do not.) It therefore behoves such to take great care to keep that tube as clean and free as possible, and neither to eat or drink any thing likely to make any disturbance in that part.” (Pott on Rup- tures, Vol. 2.) Authors, who have published since the time of this celebrated surgeon, have not added much to the stock of information which he has left, relative to the exomphalos. The writings of Mr. A. Cooper, Scarpa, ( Traite, dcs Hermes, p. 327) and of all the most accurate moderns, confirm the fact described by Pott, that, in the umbilical rupture, there is a hernial sac, just as in other instances of hernias. Every one, ac- quainted with anatomy, knows, that behind the opening in the linea alba at the umbilicus, the peritonaeum is complete, and consequently must protrude along with the viscera, in cases of ex- omphalos. In the only two cases which Mr. A. Cooper has seen of a deficiency of the sac, the membrane had been partially absorbed, or lace- rated, so as to allow the protrusion of its con- tents, and threaten, from this cause, a double stricture. Similar appearances, less closely in- spected, probably gave rise to the opinion so firmly maintained by Dionis, Dela l1 aye, Garen- geot, and J. L. Petit, that, in the umbilical hernia, the peritonaeum was always lacerated, and there was no hernial sac. According to Liehat, early infancy is most subject to the umbilical hernia, strictly so called, in which the parts protrude through the navel; while the other periods of life are more liable to false umbilical hernia?, or such as arise in the vicinity of the umbilicus. {(Jiuvres Ckir. dt: Desault, T. 2. p. H 16.) Besides a true hernial sac, the exomphalos is also covered by a more superficial expansion, consisting of condensed cellular substance. In operating, however, a surgeon should always cut with great caution ; for, the integuments and hernial sac, in front of the tumor, are inseparably adherent; and sometimes, in large cases, when an absorption of part of the sac has been caused by the pressure of the bowels, they are even found adherent to the integuments. Pregnant women, and dropsical and corpulent subjects, are peculiarly liable to the exomphalos. In adults, when there is intestine in the sac, there is almost always omentum. The trans- verse arch of the colon is observed to be parti- cularly often contained in umbilical hernia?, but the small intestines are not unfrequently pro- truded : and even the coecum has been found in a rupture at the navel. {See Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 427, Edit. 3.) In "the true umbilical hernia, the stricture is made by the tendinous opening in the linea alba. Let us next consider the umbilical hernia in the three particular forms, in which it has been no- ticed by the latest writers. CONGENITAL UMBILICAL HERNIA. Dr. Hamilton has met with about two cases of this kind annually, for the space of seventeen years ; and they strictly deserve the epithet con- genital, as they appear at birth. The funis ends in a sort of bag, containing some of the viscera, which pass out of the abdomen through an aper- ture in the situation of the navel. The swelling is not covered with skin, so that the contents of the hernia can be seen through the thin distend- ed covering of the cord. The disease is owing to a preternatural deficiency in the abdominal muscles, and the hope of cure must be regulated by the size of the malformation, and quantity of viscera protruded. The plans of cure proposed, consist of the employment of a ligature, or of a bandage. The latter seems preferable, and was practised by Mr. Hey, as follows: having reduced the intestine, he desired an assistant to hold the funis com- pressed sufficiently near the abdomen, to keep the bowel from returning into the hernial sac. “ I procured (says he) some plaster spread upon leather, cut into circular pieces, and laid upon one another in a conical form. This com- press I placed upon the navel, after I had brought the skin on each side of the aperture into con- tact, and had laid one of the lips a little over the other. I then put round the child’s abdomen a linen bell; and placed upon the navel, a thick, circular, quilted pad, formed about two inches from one extremity of the belt. “ This bandage kept the intestine securely within the abdomen, and was renewed occasion- ally. The funis was separated about a week after birth; and at the expiration of a fortnight from that time, the aperture at the navel was so far contracted, that the crying of the child.