GONORRHCLA. 518 a part not endowed with much sensation. In many cases, however, it produces a considerable soreness on the inside of the labia, nymphce, clito- ris, carunculse myrtiformes, and meatus urinarius. In certain ca^es, these parts are so sore, that they will not bear to be touched; the person can hardly walk ; the urine gives pain in its passage through the urethra; and when it comes into contact with the above mentioned parts. The bladder sometimes sympathizes, and even the kidneys. The mucous glands, on the inside ot the labia, often swell, and sometimes suppurate, forming small abscesses, which open near the orifice of the vagina. According to Mr. Hunter, the venereal mat- ter from the vagina sometimes runs down the petinaeum to the anus, and produces a gonor- rhoea, or chancre, in that situation. The disease in women may probably wear itself out, as in men ; but it may exist in the vagina for years, if the testimony of patients can be relied on. '■TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. As every form of the venereal disease arises from the same cause, and as we have a specific for some forms, we might expect, that this would be a certain cure for every one; and, therefore, that it must be no difficult task to cure the dis- ease, when in the form of inflammation and sup- puration in the urethra. Experience teaches us, however, that the gonorrhoea is the most variable in its symptoms, while under a cure; and the most uncertain, with respect to its cure, of any forms of the venereal disease, (if it be a form of this disease at all,) many .cases termina- ting in a week, while others continue for months, under the same treatment. The only curative object is, to destroy the dis- position and specific mode of action in the solids of the parts, and as they become changed, the poisonous quality of the matter produced will also be destroyed. This effects the cure of the disease, but does not always remove the conse- quence. Gonorrhoea is incapable of being continued beyond a certain time in any constitution ; and, when it is violent, or of long duration, it is owing to the part being very susceptible of such irritation, and readily retaining il. As no spe- cific remedy for gonorrhoea is known, it is for- tunate, that time alone will effect a cure. It is worthy of consideration, however, whether medi- cine can be of any service. Mr. Hunter is in- clined to think it not of the least use, in nine cases out of ten. But, even this would be of some consequence, if the cases, capable of being benefited, could be distinguished. The means of cure, generally adopted, are of two kinds, internal remedies, and local applica- tions; but, whatever plan is pursued, we are always to attend more to the nature of the con- stitution, or to any attending disease in the parts themselves, or parts connected with them, than to the gonorrhoea itself. When the symptoms are violent, but of the common inflammatory kind, known by the extent of the inflammation not exceeding the specific distance, the local treatment may be either irritating or soothing. In these cases, irritating applications are less dangerous, than when irritable inflammation is present, and they may alter the specific action ; but, to produce this effect, their irritation must be greater, than that of the original injury. The parts will afterwards recover of themselves, as from any other common inflammation. Mr. Hunter believes, however, that in the beginning, the soothing plan is the best If the inflammation be great, and of the irritable kind, no violence is to be used, for it would only in- crease the symptoms; and nothing should be done, that can tend to stop the discharge, as it would not put a stop to the inflammation. The constitution is to be altered, if possible, by reme- dies adapted to each disposition, and reducing the disease to its simple form. If the constitu- tion cannot be altered, nothing is to be done, and the action is to be allowed to wear itself out. When the inflammation has abated, the cure may be attempted by internal remedies, or local applications, which do not operate violently, whereby the irritation might be reproduced. Gentle astringents maybe applied. But if the disease has begun mildly, an irri- tating injection may be used, in order quickly to get rid of the specific mode of action. This application will increase the symptoms for a time; but, when it is left off, they will often abate, or wholly disappear; and, after such abatement, astringents may be used, the dis- charge being now the only thing to be removed. When itching, pain, and other uncommon sensations are felt for some time before the dis- charge appears, Mr. Hunter diffidently ex- presses his inclination to recommend the soothing plan, instead of the irritating one, in- order to bring on the discharge, which is a step towards the resolution of the irritation ; and he adds, that to use astringents would be bad practice, as, by retarding the discharge, they would only pro- tract the cure. When there are strictures, or swelled testicles, astringents should not be used; for, while there is a discharge, such complaints are relieved. Mr. Hunter thus expresses himself in regard to the effect of mercury in gonorrhoea : “ I doubt very much of mercury having any specific virtue in this species of the disease; for 1 find that it is as soon cured without mercury as with il, &c. So little effect, indeed, has this medicine upon a gonorrhoea, that 1 have known a gonorrhoea take place while (the patient was) under a course of mercury, sufficient for the cure of a chancre. Men have also been known to contract a gonor- rhoea when loaded with mercury for the cure of a lues venerea; the gonorrhoea, nevertheless, has been as difficult of cure as in ordinary cases,” Mr. Hunter does not say much in favor of evacuants, diuretics, and astringents, given in- ternally. He allows, however, that astringents, which act specifically on the parts, as the bal- sams, conjoined with any other medicine, which may be thought right, may help to lessen the discharge, in proportion as the inflammation abates. Local applications may be either internal to the urethra; external to the penis; or both. Those which are applied to the urethra seem to promise most efficacy, because they come into immediate contact with the diseased parts. 'Ibey may be either in a solid or fluid form. A fluid is only a very temporary application. The solid ones, or bougies, may remain a long while, but in general irritate immediately, from their i0r