URINARY CALCULI. 1107 v culi depend, and more confidence seems to be placed in this aim, than in any schemes for the dissolution of urinary concretions. It is certain, that in the latter project, many difficulties pre- sent themselves, and amongst these, some of the most serious are the great variety in the compo- sition of calculi; the impossibility of knowing the exact ingredients of a stone, while it is con- cealed in the bladder, though many useful sug- gestions for assisting the judgment on this point have been recently offered by Dr. Prout; and, lastly, if the right solvent were ascertained, as calculated upon chemical principles applied to urinary concretions out of the body, it is obvious, that any medicines, taken by the mouth, are liable to so many changes in the alimentary canal, and in the lymphatic and vascular systems, that it must be exceedingly difficult to get them in an unaltered state and effective quantity into the bladder; while, if this were possible (as it is in the way of injection through a catheter), the bladder itself might be incapable of bearing the application, and the patient lose his life in the experiment. As Dr. Prout well observes, a calculus in the bladder may be considered, a substance placed in a solution of various principles in a certain quantity of water. If any of the more insoluble of these principles exist in this solution in a state of supersaturation, the calculus will afford a nucleus, round which the excess will be depo- ■ sited. But, if none exist in a state of excess, of < course, none can be deposited, and the calculus will not increase in bulk. Whoever studies the chemical properties of t the urine, says Dr. Marcet, will learn, that “ if • any alkali (a few drops of ammonia for instance) : be added to recent urine, a white cloud appears, and a sediment, consisting of phosphate of lime, with some ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, subsides, in the proportion of about two grains of the precipitate from four ounces of urine. Lime- water produces a precipitate of a similar kind, which is still more copious; for, the lime, in combining with the excess of phosphoric, and perhaps, also, of lactic acid, not only precipitates the phosphate of lime, which these acids held in solution; but, it decomposes the other phosphates, • thus generating an additional quantity of the phosphate of lime, which is also deposited. “ If, on the contrary (observes the same au- ! thor), a small quantity of any acid, either the i phosphoric, the muriatic, or, indeed, even com- 1 tnon vinegar, be added to recent healthy urine, and the mixture be allowed to stand for one, or two days, small reddish crystalline particles of lithic acid will be gradually deposited on the inner surface of the vessel, “ It is on these two general facts, that our principles of chemical treatment ultimately rest. Whenever the lithic secretion predominates, the alkalies are the appropriate remedies; and the acids, particularly the muriatic, are the agents to be resorted to, when the calcareous, or mag- salts prevail in the deposite.” (/-*. 147, The alkalies taken into the stomach certainly reach the urinary passages through the medium ° circulation; and it is also strongly sus- pected, that the acids likewise do so, though this circumstance is still a question. Unfortunately, the quantity of either alkalies, or acids, which thus mixes with the urine, is so small, that no impression is made upon calculi of magnitude. The experience of Dr. Marcet, Dr. Prout, and others, however, has clearly ascertained, that such medicines are often capable of checking a tendency to the formation of stone, and some- times of bringing on a calculous deposite de- pending upon the altered state of the system. Indeed, Dr. Marcet expresses his decided opinion, that, even supposing net an atom of alkali, or acid, ever reached die bladder, still it would not be unreasonable to expect, that these remedies may respectively produce the desired changes during the first stages of assimilation; in one case, by neutralizing any morbid excess of acid in the primse viae; and, in the other, by checking a tendency to .alkalescence, or other- wise disturbing those affinities, which, in the subsequent processes of assimilation and secre- tion, give rise to calculous affections. (P. 153.) When muriatic acid is prescribed, from 5 to 25 drops may be given two or three times a-day, diluted with a sufficient quantity of water. The best way of taking the alkalies is by drinking soda water, as a common beverage. It is asserted, however, on the authority of Sir G. Blane, that, when the alkalies are combined with nitric acid, as in the ordinary saline draught, they also have the effect of depriving the urine of its acid properties. Dr. Marcet, with every appearance of proba- bility, refers to carbonic acid itself no solvent power, and he does not even adopt Mr. Brande’s opinion, that this acid passes into the urine, when patients drink fluids impregnated with it. But, it may be inquired, if no known internal medicine will dissolve a stone already formed, what is the good of merely altering the diathesis, and checking the increase of the calculus, as lithotomy must still be necessary? The reasons for persevering in the aim of correcting any par- ticular state of the system, and the urinary se- cretion, on which state the increase of a calcu- lus depends, are very important; for, it is found, that, though medicines may be quite incapable of dissolving a calculus, they relieve a great deal of the distress and suffering apparently the effect of the diathesis itself, as will be presently noticed, and sometimes afford such ease, that the opera- tion may be postponed until the health is im- proved, or, in a very old subject, even be dis- pensed with altogether. The aim is also of high importance, with the view of preventing relapses. As the lithic acid diathesis seems to be con- cerned in the production of about two-thirds of the whole number of the urinary calculi, the correction of it has been a chief aim amongst modern practitioners. Tor this purpose, Ma- gendie, whose experiments tend to prove, that the lithic acid diathesis may be lessened and removed by abstinence from animal food, and other nutriments abounding in azote, founds his practice very much upon this alleged fact. His indications, however, are four in number, viz. 1. to lessen the quantity of uric acid produced by the kidneys; 2. to augment the secretion of urine; a maxim, which lends him to consider 4 B 2