312 OPIITHALMY. i- no steps be taken, the eyes will continue closed making the experiment; the cornea was mili.v for several days in succession. The matter, con- and opaque, and the eyeball distended and pro- fined between the eyelids and globe of the eye, minent, attended with acute inflammatory svm- bemg perhaps of an irritating quality, and in- ptoms. The aqueous humour was discharged bv jurious from the pressure it occasions on the a small incision, and the operation produced not surrounding parts, seems capable of exciting only a removal of the cloudiness of the cornea, ulceration of the cornea, and even of irremediably but an abatement of the pain, and a sudden check destroying vision. When the pustules of the to all the inflammatory symptoms. From the small-pox in other parts of the body have sup- success of this case, Mr. Wardrop was led to purated, they cicatrize; but, those, which happen perform the operation on others, not only with a within the margin of the cartilage of the eyelids, view of diminishing the opacity of the' cornea, are prevented from healing by the diseased secre- but, also, of alleviating the inflammation. Four tion, which is then made from the Meibomian interesting cases are related by this gentleman, glands, and such ulcers result, as will sometimes very much in favour of the practice, when the last for several years, and even during life, if eye is severely inflamed, attended with fulness unremedied by art. (St. Yves sur ks Mai. des of the organ, a cloudy state of the cornea, and a Yeux, p. 216', Edit. 12mo.) After the employ- turbidness of the aqueous humour. Mr. War- ment of the antiphlogistic treatment, should the drop also advises the operation, whenever there disease, when treated with topical astringents and is the smallest quantity of pus, in the anterior corroborants, yet baffle the efforts of the surgeon, chamber, accompanied with violent symptoms of setons in the nape of the neck, kept open for a inflammation. He thinks, that, the great and long while, prove one of the most useful reme- immediate relief, which the method affords is dies. Scarpa has experienced much advantage from giving, every morning and evening, to a child, ten years old, a pill, containing one grain of calomel, one grain of the sulph. aur. antim. and four grains of cicuta in powder. It is obvious, that so potent an alterative, if ever serviceable in this case, will soon evince its efficacy; nor would it be justifiable to sport with the patient’s constitution by continuing its use beyond a cer- tain period, unless sanctioned by evident signs of its salutary effects on the disease of the eyes. When great irritability prevails, a mixture, of three drams of the vinum antimoniale, and one dram of the tinctura thebaica, given in doses of five, or six drops, in any convenient vehicle, and, at the same time, applying externally the vapours of the spiritus amnion, comp, to the eye, con- stitute an excellent plan of treatment. In other cases, saturnine collvria, with a little camphorated spirit of wine, or white wine, in which a little sugar is dissolved ; ”tinct. thebaica ; Janin’s oint- ment, &c. avail most. This treatment is also applicable to the chronic ophthalmy from measles. When inveterate ulcers remain upon the edges of the palpebrae, the disease may then be regarded as the psorophthalmy, described by Mr. Ware, and will demand the same method of cure. (See Psorophthalmy.) Operation of discharging the aqueous hu- mour. To this practice, some allusion has been already made in the preceding columns; and, as the proposal is intended to apply to several forms of inflammation of the eye, I have not given any particular account of it in treating of the various cases. Mr. Wardrop remarked, that if the eye of a sheep, or ox, be squeezed in the hand, the whole cornea instantly becomes cloudy, and whenever the pressure is removed, this mem- brane completely regains its transparency— From this curious phenomenon in the dead eye, it was evident, that, in the living body, the transparency of the cornea might vary according to the degree of its distention; and that, in cases of opacity of the cornea, accompanied witli ful- ness of theeyebr.il, its transparency might be re- stored by the evacuation oi the aqueous humour. The cornea is little sensible, and, as every body knows, its wounds arc free from danger. Mr. Wardrop soon met with a case, favourable for imputable to the sudden removal of tension; and he performs the operation with a small knife, such as is used for extracting the cataract. The instrument is to be oiled, and°introduced so as to make a wound of its own breadth, at the usual place of making an incision in the ex- traction of the cataract. By turning the blade a little on its axis, the aqueous humour flows out. (See Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal. Jan. 1807 ; also Med. Cliir. Trans. VoL 4.) The late Mr. W'are approved of Mr. Wardrop’s operation in the epidemic, purulent, or Egyptian opnthalmy, when, notwithstanding general eva- cuations, topical bleeding, mildly astringent lo- tions, and a strict antiphlogistic regimen, the symptoms still continue, and, especially if the cornea begin to lose its transparency, and a white rim appear round its circumference. Mr. Ware did not object to using a small knife, of the kind employed in extracting the cataract; but pre- ferred a lancet, or a sharp-pointed couching needle, with a blade somewhat wider than usual, and a groove in its middle. The instrument, he advises, to be introduced about one-tenth of an inch before the connexion of the cornea with the sclerotica, and pushed gently on, parallel to the plane of the iris, until the aqueous humour make its escape. (Ware on the Purulent Oph- thalmy, p. 41, 1808.) As already explained, Mr. Wardrop also recommends this practice in certain states of rheumatic ophthalmy. Consult Avicen- na, Canon. L. 3, Fen. 3, Tract. 1, cap. 0. Maitrc-Jan, Traite des Maladies de I'CSil, 127/w. Paris, \ 722. St. Yves, Traite des Alai, des Ycu.v. p. 176, fyc. Janin, Mem-sur I'CEil, §c. 8t<o. Paris, 1/72. L. F. Gcndron, Traite des Alai, des 1 cut, 2 T. 1 Imo. Paris, 1770. C. F. Rcuss, Dissert atiemesMed. Selccto' Tub'v,- genscs Oculi II avian i Ajf'cciusmcdieo-chii urgin' consideratas sistentes, 3 Vols. 8wo. Tub. 1783. Trnka ^de Krzomitz, Hist. Ophthalmia' omnis cevi observata mcdica continent, 8no. Vindob. 1783. G. Power, Attempt to investigate the causes of the Egyptian Ophthalmy; with obs. on its nature and cure, 8vo. Land. 1803. II. Head, An Essay on Ophthalmia, 8 vo. Port sea, 1806-7. J. II. Scrncy, Treatise on Local In* ,/lammation, more particularly applied to Dis- eases of the Eye, i)t. 8ro. Land. 180‘). J. !’• f f • . i-