1225 WRY-NECK. * blood-vessels. But, though it seems to me better to use a probe pointed bistoury and a di- rector, than the kind of razor, which Mr. Sharp employed, Ido not coincide with Mr. B. Bell in thinking, that the latter surgeon’s plan was at all objectionable on the score of danger, in re- spect to wounding the vessels. Some practi- tioners may even think Mr. B. Bell's method most likely to injure the large vessels ; for, he advises the operator to cut the muscle from without gradually inward, as deeply' as neces- ssarv. Perhaps, the most prudent method of opera- ting, is to divide the clavicular portion of the con- tracted muscle, near the clavicle, and even to cut nut a sufficient piece, to remove all chance of the two ends uniting again. This step would weak- en the muscle considerably, and, perhaps, might ianswer every purpose. It could easily be ac- complished, by means of a director, and curved oistoury, after making the requisite division of the skin with a common scalpel. Were this pro- ceeding to produce only' partial amendment, the sternal portion of the muscle might afterwards be • livided. A director should be passed under it, and the division .made with a probe-pointed curved knife. Any' cause, destroying the equilibrium between •he two sterno-eleido-mastoidei muscles, will pro- 1 luce a wry-neck. Thus, when one of them is r. iffected with spasm, and acts more forcibly than || t the other, it draws the head towards the shoulder if its own side; but, when one sterno-cleido- nastoideus is paralytic, while the other retains only' its natural power, the balance of action is [• equally destroyed, and the sound muscle inclines :he head towards the nearest shoulder. In pa- r -alytie cases, electricity, (Phil. Trans. Vol. G8, ). 97 ; G'dhij, in London Med. Journ. Pol. 4, .790.) blisters, stimulating liniments, the shower oath, seabathing, issues, selons, the application i of moxa, and attention to the health in general, : ire the means affording the best chances of re- : ief. • , Although the wry-neck may occasionally de- oend on the state of the sterno-eleido-mastoidei •nuscles, the case is far from being frequent, rrhe deformity is much oftener owing to some i lflection of the integuments. Louis often suc- cessfully divided contractions of the skin, which lad kept the head drawn to one side for many /cars, and had been occasioned by burns. Some if these contractions, he says, might easily have ieen mistaken for a part of the sterno-cleido- nastoideus itself. Mr. Gooch relates a case of wry-neck, which vas caused by a contraction of the platysma my- >ides muscle. The patient was a young gentle- nan, fourteen years of age, who had always en- oyed very good health in every other respect. Tor several months, his head had been strongly Irawn to one side by a constant contraction of he platysma myoides muscle, which was ex- reedingly rigid, especially about its insertion at .he basis of the jaw, and from the angle of the os naxillare inferius to the chin, the skin presented .n appearance like that of the cicatrix of a burn. The same side of the face, quite from the point if the chin, was much shrunk, and distorted by lie contraction of the muscle, and the comer of he mouth, in particular, was so drawn to one side and downward* when the patient turned his head, that a vast deal of deformity was the con- sequence. From the inferior part of the eye- brow, at the internal angle of the eye, to near the top of the head, there was a kind of furrow upon the skin, about half an inch broad, with a shining, polished appearance, like the cicatrix of a wound, and destitute of hair, which had fallen off. From the corner of the eye downwards, there was the same kind of appearance in a less degree. The patient was subject to repeated at- tacks of spasms, which began at the insertion of the muscle, and terminated at the eye, attended with a great deal of pain. The ear, and, also, the temporal and frontal muscles, were some- times affected in a similar manner. The parts, in the course of the insertion of the muscle into the jaw-bone, were considerably thickened, with- out being in the least inflamed externally, and when touched, but not stretched, they were little painful. The subjacent muscles did not seem at all affected. It appears from the account, given by Mr. Gooch, that, in the treatment of this affection, every known means had been tried, by the ad- vice of the most eminent practitioners; but, without effect. Mr. Gooch determined to try what benefit would be produced by the division of the muscle. He first divided the integuments a little below the jaw, and thus exposed the whole breadth of the platysma myoides muscle, the fibres of which seemed to be in a state of violent extension, especially, when the patient’s head was inclined towards the opposite side. Mr. Gooch then divided the muscle completely across, by a very careful dissection, until the fasciae of the subjacent muscles were exposed The pa- tient was then directed to turn his head towards the opposite side, and Mr. Goocii had the satis- faction of observing, that the patient could per- form this motion, without the face, and corner of the mouth being affected, as they used previ- ously to be. The wound was treated in the or- dinary way, and no particular symptoms arose. As soon as the inflammation had subsided, the patient was directed frequently to move his head about in order to prevent any kind of stiffness, which might ensue from the contraction of the muscular fibres, and the inelasticity of the cica- trix. The patient was perfectly relieved by the fore- going operation, and had no return of the pain- ful spasms, to which lie had been previously sub- ject. The side of his face, however, never re- covered its proper degree of plumpness. (Chir. Works of li. Gooch, Vol. 2, p. 81.) Whenever an attempt is made to cure a wry-neck, by dividing any of the muscles, or merely the integuments, it becomes necessary to take some measures for keeping the head in a proper position, during the treatment of the wound, lest, in consequence of the head incli- ning in the direction, in which it was before the operation, the divided parts grow together again, and bring the patient into the same condition, in which he was before any thing had been done. With a view of preventing this unpleasant cir- cumstance, Mr. Sharp recommends filling the wound with lint, and making it suppurate. Mr. B. Bell, on the other hand, advises the employ- ment of a proper machine for keeping the head A K