NECROSIS. 833 head. (Pathologie Chir. Tom. 1, ]>■ 479.) Having treated particularly of the “ aneurism by anastomosis,” in another place (see Aneurism\ I shall merely repeat the necessity there is for cuttino every particle of the disease away, every portion of the congeries of vessels and cells of which it consists, whenever it is meddled with at all. Puncturing the swelling, or the partial re- moval of it, has cost many persons their lives by hemorrhage, as the records of surgery fully nrove. (Petit Traiti des Maladies Chir. T. 1 ; 'Lassus, Pathologie Chir. T. 1, p. 484, $r.) Although the original causes of ncevi are buried in obscurity, experience proves, that whatever produces irritation in the part affected, or an increased determination of blood to it, has generally the effect of accelerating the growth and enlargement of the swelling. Thus, a trifling bruise, or a tight flat, will sometimes excite a mere stain-like speck, or a minute livid tubercle, into that diseased action, which occasions its growth. (Batemails Pract. Synopsis, 4fC. p. 327, Edit. 5.) With regard to the treatment of naevi, the subject may be explained in a few words. When these marks, or swellings, are superficial, with- out any disposition to enlarge, or spread, and their trivial elevation does not expose them to accidental rupture, there appears to be no good reason for interfering with them. Indeed, they could only be destroyed with caustic, or the knife, and these severe means would leave scars, accompanied with nearly the same degree of dis- figurement. But, as a valuable writer observes, when naevi evince a tendency to enlarge, or are very pro- minent excrescences, and either troublesome from their situation, or liable to be ruptured, either their growth must be repressed by sedative applications, or the whole congeries of vessels extirpated with the knife. Mr. Abernethy has proposed the ap- plication of cold washes, and the pressure of a bandage. This practice was found by him in several instances to have the desired effect of checking the growth of the tumors, which after- wards shrunk, and became no longer objects of any consequence. (See Abernethy's Surgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 224.) Boyer also knew of a case, in which a nsevus of the upper lip was cured by the mother pressing the part with her finger unremittingly for seven hours at a time, and the use of alum wash. (Traite des Maladies Chir. T. 2, p. 269.) Boyer, however, is not generally an advocate for this mode of treatment; and Dr. Bateman expressly states, that, in the majority of cases, pressure is the source of great irritation to these maculae, and cannot be em- ployed. (P. 329.) For all those examples, which partake of the nature of aneurism by anastomosis, and are dis- posed to grow, the best general mode of cure is extirpation with the knife. The prudence of this practice, and the necessity of taking away every particle of the disease, has been already explained: tfiis is what was advised by F. Hildanus, {Cent. 5, Ohs. 46.); what was strongly urged by the celebrated Petit, ((Entires Posthumes, T. 1.); what was recommended in still more animated terms by Mr. John Bell, (Principles of Surgery, Discourse 9.); and it is what is particularly in- sisted upon in another part of this Dictionary. See Aneurism. In general, stimulating applications cannot be made to naevi, without risk of exasperating, in- stead of lessening them. Mere thickenings, and discolourations of the rete mucosum, however, have sometimes been removed by a mixture of spirit and the liquor potasste. (Bateman, p. 330.) Formerly caustic was much in vogue for the removal of naevi; but, unless its action extend deeply enough to destroy every part of the dis- ease, it may cause a dangerous degree of irrita- tion, copious hemorrhages, and a sudden and fatal enlargement of the tumor. Therefore, as it is a more painful measure than the knife, and less certain in its effects, it should be on every ac- count discarded from practice. It cannot be de- nied, however, that the old surgeons had success with their caustics, where the naevi were alto- gether superficial. Thus, in speaking of caustic remedies, Callisen observes: “ inter quae eximio cum suecessu adhibetur sapo cum sequali parte calcis vivse subtilissima? comiflixtus, naevo per em- plastrum perforatum admovendus,etalioemplastro imposito firmandus; hoc remedio eschara inuritur, qua soluta, cicatrix alba remanere solet.” (Syst. Chirin'give Hodcrncc, Vol. 2, p. 202.) Consult Petit's CEuvrcs Posthumes, T.\. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. \, p. 476, <§-c. Ed. 1809. Callisen s Systema Chinirgiae Ilodi- ernae, Vol. 2, p. 201, Hafnice, 1800. Aber- nethy's Surgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 224, <|*c. Latta's System of Surgery, Vol. 2, Chap. 22. J. Bell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. 1, Dis- course 9. Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chi- rurgicalcs, T. 2, p. 225, S^c. Paris, 1814. A Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases by T. Bateman, M. D. Edit. 3, 1814. Delpech Precis Element air e 'des Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 244, Paris, 1816. ./. War drop, On one Species of Ncevus, with the Case of an Infant, where the Carotid Artery was tied, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 9, p. 199, §c. NECROSIS, (from VEXgow, to destroy.) This word, the strict meaning of which is only mor- tification, is, by the general consent of surgeons, confined to this affection of the bones. It was first used, in this particular sense, by the cele- brated M. Louis, who restricted its application, however, to examples, in which the whole thick- ness of a bone was destroyed. (See Mem. cle VAcad. Royale de Chirurgie, T. 5, 4to.) By the ancients, the death of parts of bones was not distinguished from caries. However, necro- sis and caries are essentially different; for, in the first, the affected part of the bone is deprived of the vital principle; but this is not the case when it is simply carious. Caries is very ana- logous to ulceration, swhile necrosis closely re- sembles mortification of the soft parts. Between caries and necrosis, says Weidmann, there is all that difference, which exists between ulcers and gangrene, or sphacelus, of the soft parts. In caries, the nutrition of the bone is only impaired, and an irregular action disunites the elements of the bony structuft, which con- sequently sustains a loss of substance; but every remaining part of it is yet alive. In necrosis, on the contrary, the vitality and nutritive func- 3 H