HYDROPHOBIA. Gy2 the wounded person and his friends. If the ani- mal be affected with rabies, it will perish in a few days. At the veterinary school at Alfort, when a dog has been bit, it is usual to chain the ani- mal up, for at least fifty days, before it is re- stored to its master, about six weeks being con- sidered the period when a dog generally becomes rabid alter being bitten. I* or additional details, relating to the disease as it appears in the dog, I must refer to the above-mentioned paper. Enough, I hope, has been said to make the reader aware, that mad dogs are not particularly characterised by an inability to lap water, or any degree of fury. These animals, when actually affected with ra- bies, from their quiet manner, have even not been suspected of having the disorder, and have been allowed to run about, been fondled, and even slept with. (See Mem. of Swedish Acad. 1777.) The causes of this peculiar distemper in dogs are at present unknown, and little more than conjecture prevails upon the subject. It is not positively known, whether rabies sometimes ori- ginates spontaneously in these animals, though I believe this opinion is at present gaining ground; or, whether, like small pox, in the human species, it is propagated only by contagion. That the disease is frequently imparted in consequence of one dog biting another, ever}' body well knows. Yet, there are many instances, in which this mode of propagation cannot be suspected. Se- veral facts render it probable, that, among dogs, the disease is often communicated by contagion. It is observed, that, in insular situations, dogs are seldom affected, and this circumstance is ascribed to such animals being in a kind of qua- rantine. The celebrated sportsman, Mr. Mevnell, secured his dogs from the malady, by making every new hound perform a quarantine before he was suffered to join the pack. (See Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and C’hir. Know- ledge, Pol. 1, art. 17.) Great heat was very commonly supposed to be an exciting cause of the disease in dogs ; but, without much founda- tion. “ A very hot climate, or one exposed to the extremes of heat and cold ; a very hot and dry season; feeding upon putrid, stinking, and magotty flesh; want of water; worms in the kidneys, intestines, brain, or cavities of the nose,” are set down by Boerhaave as causes of the dis- ease. {Aphorism, 1134.) We learn from Dr. J. Hunter, that, in the hot island of Jamaica, where dogs are exceedingly numerous, not one was known to go mad during forty years. {Trans, for the Improvement of Med. Know- ledge, loc. cit.) Cold weather has also been set down as conducive to rabies amongst the canine race, as is suggested, because the ponds being frozen, these animals cannot quench their thirst. (Le Roux.) That neither of these sentiments, about heat and cold being the cause of the origin of the disease in dogs, is correct, will be mani- fest enough to any body, who lias patience to look- over the volume of the Mem. de la Soc. Iioyalc dc Med. devoted entirely to the consideration of rabies; and. from the investigations of M. Andrv, {Recherches snr la Rage, 8ro. Paris, 1780,') it appears, that January, the coldest month in the vear, and August, the hottest, aic those, which furnish the fewest instances of hy- drophobia. Ou the contrary, the greatest num- ber of rabid wolves is in March and April; and that of dogs, affected with spontaneous rabies, in May and September. According to Savary, dogs never go mad in the Island of Cyprus, nor in that part ot Syria, which is near the sea; arid Volney as- sures us, that these animals enjoy the same for- tunate exemption both in the latter country, and in Egypt. ( Voyage in Auric, T. 1.) Tne tra- veller Brown also declares, that, in Egypt, they are never, or very rarely attacked with rabies. “ Although (says Baron Larrey) hydropho- bia is more frequent in warm, than temperate climates, it is not observed in Egypt, and the natives assured us, that they knew of no instance, in which this disease had manifested itself either in man, or animals. No doubt, this is owing to tire species and character of the dogs of this country, and their manner of living. “ It is remarked, ,that the Egyptian dogs are almost continually in a state of inaction: during the day, they lie down in the shade, near vessels, full of fresh water, prepared by the natives. They only run about iu the night time; they evince the signs and effects of their love but once a year, and only for a few instants. They are seldom seen coupled. On our arrival, there was a vast number of these animals in Egypt, because, they were held, like many others, in great veneration, and were never put to death. They do not go into the houses; in the day time, they remain at the sides of the streets, and they only wander into the country at night, in order to And any dead animals, which happen to be unburied. Their disposition is meek and peaceable, and they rarely fight with each ether. Possibly, all these causes may exempt them from rabies.” (Larrey in Mem. dc Chir. Militaire, T. 2, p. 226.) This observation, about the exemption of the Egyptian dogs from rabies, is a very ancient one, having been made by Prosper Alpinus. (Rev. TEgyptiarum, lib. 4, cap. 8.) Accord- ing to Barrow, the dogs in the vicinity of the Cape of Good Hope, and in Caffrarin, very rarely go mad. ( Travels into the Interior of Africa.) Several authors assert, that rabies never occurs in South America. (Rihl. Roi- sonnee, 1750. Van Swictcn Comment, in Aphor. 1129, Portal, c\r.) L. Valentin de- clares, that it is exceedingly rare in the warm regions of America, but common in the northern part of that continent. (Journ. Gen. dr Med. T. 80.) Dr.- Thomas, who resided a good while in the West Indies, never saw, nor heard of a case of rabies there, ( Practice of Physic ; ) and Dr. B. Moseley states, that the disorder was • not known in those islands, down to I7S3. On the other hand, the disease sometimes happens in the East Indies, though not with such fre- quency, as at all to justify the doctrine about heat being the cause of its production. The silence of Hippocrates proves, that in his days, hydro- phobia must have been very rare in Greece; and, as the disorder is not mentioned in the scriptures, an inference may be made, that it could not be so common in the hot tracts of the globe, inhabited by the Hebrews,.as in the tem- perate climates of Europe and America. Neither can the sentiment be received as cor-