VENEREAL DISEASE. 1 HI f the disease upon the soldiers in Portugal to he operation of the climate upon their northern onstitutions, and to their irregularity and in- jmperance, vices, to which the natives are not Jdicted. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, 563.) It has been a contested question, whether the $ enereal disease and gonorrhoea arise from the tme poison ? Mr. Hunter acknowledges, that . e opinion, of their originating from two distinct bisons, seems to have some foundation, when e difference, in the symptoms, and method of j ire, is considered. But, lie asserts, that, if this I aestion be taken up upon other grounds, and, experiments be made, the result of which can be : fely depended , upon, this notion will be found to : erroneous. As the arguments of Mr. Hunter, support of tbe doctrine, that both diseases are oduced by the same virus, are noticed in the •.tide Gonorrhoea, I shall not here repeat them, t On the other hand, Mr. B. Bell relates some periments, from which the conclusion is made, at the poisons of the venereal disease, and : inorrhoea, are entirely different and distinct. Matter was taken upon the point of a probe, Dm a chancre on the glans penis, before any plication was made to it, and completely in- oduced into the urethra. For the first eight vys, the gentleman who made this experiment, r, t no kind of uneasiness; but, about this period, was attacked with pain in making water. On ating the urethra, as much as possible, nearly » whole of a large chancre was discovered, and, a few days a bubo formed in each groin. No charge took place from the urethra, during 2 whole course of the disease; but another ancre was soon perceived in the opposite side the urethra, and red precipitate was applied to as well as to the other, by means of a probe ^viously moistened for the purpose. Mercurial itment was at the same time rubbed on the : tside of each thigh, by which a profuse saliva- • n was excited. The buboes, which, till then, J continued to increase, became stationary, d, at last, disappeared entirely; the chancres xrame clean, and by a due continuance of :rcury, a complete cure was at last obtained, this case, and another, to which I shall pre- ltly advert, could be entirely depended upon, yy would tend to disprove the part of Mr. juter’s theory, accounting for the different acts of the same poison by its application in case of chancre to a non-secreting surface, rered with cuticle, and in that of gonorrhoea secreting mucous membrane. However this y be, I have never seen a chancre within the rthra. The next experiment was made with the tter of gonorrhoea, a portion of which was oduced between the prepuce and glans, and iwed to remain there without being disturbed, the course of the second day, a slight degree inflammation was produced, succeeded by a charge of matter, which, in the course of two three days, disappeared. I he same experiment was repeated; but no mere ever ensued from it. Two medical students were anxious to asccr- n the point in question ; and with this view, :y made the following experiments, at a time, en neither of them had ever laboured under either gonorrhoea, or syphilis, and both in these and in the preceding experiments, the matter of infection was taken from patients, who had never made use of mercury. A small dossil of lint, soaked in the matter of gonorrhoea, was by each of them inserted be- tween the prepuce and the glans, and allowed to remain on the same spot for the space of twenty- four hours. From this it was expected, that chancres would be produced; but, in one, a very severe degree of inflammation ensued over the whole glans and prseputium, giving all the appearance of, what is usually termed, gonorrhoea spuria. A considerable quantity of fetid matter was discharged from the surface of the inflamed parts, and for several days, there was reason to fear, that an operation would be necessary for the removal of a paraphimosis. By the use of saturnine poultices, laxatives, and low diet, how- ever, the inflammation abated, the discharge ceased, no chancre took place, and the case got entirely well. In the other gentleman, says Mr. B. Bell, the external inflammation was slight, but in consequence of the matter finding access to the urethra, he was attacked, on the second day, with a severe gonorrhoea, with which he was troubled for more than a year. The next experiment was made by the friend of the latter student; he inserted the matter of gonorrhoea, with a lancet, beneath the skin of the prseputium, and, likewise, into the substance of the glans; but, although this was repeated three different times, no chancres ensued. A slight degree of inflammation was excited: but it soon disappeared, without any thing being done for it. His last experiment was attended with more serious consequences. The matter of a chancre was inserted on the point of a probe to the depth of a quarter of an inch, or more, in the urethra. No symptoms of gonorrhoea ensued; but in the course of five, or six days, a painful inflammatory chancre was perceived on the spot, to which the matter was applied. To this succeeded a bubo, which ended in suppura- tion, notwithstanding the immediate application of mercury; and the sore, that was produced, proved both painful and tedious. Ulcers were at last perceived in the throat, nor was a cure obtained, till a very large quantity of mercury had been given and the patient kept in close confinement for thirteen weeks. (On Gonorrhoea Virulent a and Lues Venerea, Vol. I, Edit. 2, p. 438, $c.) Mr. Evans, it appears, has also several times inoculated with the matter of gonorrhoea, but, in every case, it failed to pro- duce any effect. ( On Ulceration of the Genital Organs, p. 81, A no. Loud. 1819.) Some other facts on record, however, tend rather to support Mr. Hunter’s inference, if any conclusion can be ventured upon without the aid of the most minute details. Thus, Vigarous mentions an instance, n. which six young French- men had connexion with the same woman, one after the other. The first and fourth in the order of connexion, had chancres and buboes, the second and third gonorrhoea, the fifth chancre, and the sixth bubo, ((Euvres dc Chir. Practique Montp. 1812, p. 8.) And Dr. Hennen, who refers to this case, mentions a similar one, in which the first person escaped, the second had true chancres and elevated sores, and the third