URINE, RETENTION OF, <B .«* 5 into the bladder whatever substances it includes; ered trenice in the intestinal canal of young iterative organs, and no similar animals are mown to exist out of living bodies, yet, it has jeen generally conceived, that the germs, from Wiich they spring, enter from the mouth. The iroduction of hydatids in various parts of the iody, cannot, however, be accounted for on such . supposition; ntither can we very easily eon- eive, that ova should enter from without into he urinary organs.” The following facts, also tated by Goeze (as Mr. Lawrence observes), ntirelv overturn this opinion. Professor Bren- •el, of Gottingen, found ascarides in the rectum f an immature embryo. Blumenbach disco- bladder, after wounds, or the operation of litho- tomy, that is most disposed to coagulate. If the clots were too large to pass through a catheter, the best plan would be to injedt into the bladder lukewarm water, for the purpose of loosening and dissolving them. ogs a few hours after birth, &c. (Versuch Utter Natnrgsschichte dsr Eingexoeidetviirmer, oo.) The case, which Mr. Lawrence has re jrded, exhibits an unquestionable instance of eculiar and undescribed worms, voided from the rrinarv passages. This gentleman says, that he nows of no other case, in which a distinct spe- es of worm has been clearly proved to come om the bladder. Most of the cases published ere instances of common intestinal round orms, which sometimes perforate the intestines ul are discharged by abscesses, or get into the ladder, after the formation of adhesions betwixt is organ and the bowels. In other instances, oagula of blood, mucus, or portions of the mu- ms coat of the bladder, have been mistaken for :orms; and, as Mr. Lawrence further observes, me of the descriptions can apply only to larvae insects. Two specimens of this last sort, he s seen himself, which were sent from thecoun- V as worms voided from the bladder. (See f.redico-Chir. Trans, vol. ‘2, p- 382, eye. In whatever way these animals get into the ulder, a retention of urine may be produced, :her when they are numerous, or when there only one present, but large enough to obstruct ; vesical orifice of the urethra. In the very • rious example, related by Mr. Lawrence, the 3sage of the urine was obstructed, and the use the catheter continually necessary. The oil turpentine Was given internally, with some pearance of benefit at first; but, it afterwards ought on febrile symptoms .and erysipelas, and exhibition could not be kept up. It was then I r ected into the bladder, with an equal part of : ter. This rather accelerated the discharge of : worms; but, they came away at times, whe- r the injection was used, or not, and as this ans produced the erysipelatous indisposition tin, it was left off! Olive oil was afterwards ected; the irritation after it was less, and the of pain about the bladder less violent. It s calculated, that at the time when Mr. Law- ice was writing the particulars of the case, m 800 to 1000 worms had been discharged, r a detail of the symptoms, and a particular icription of the worms themselves, we must ;‘r to the above mentioned publication. According to the observations of Desault, a ention ol urine is frequently occasioned by igula of blood in the bladder. The blood is I sometimes to come from the kidneys, some* ,e* from the bladder, and sometimes it even pirgitntpj) Irom the urethra. While fluid, it y be expelled with the urine; but, when coa- •‘tcd. it is no longer capable of being dis- It is the blood, which passes into the A retention of urine, has sometimes arisen from the entrance of a piece of bougie into the bladder, Even whole bougies, which had not been properly secured, have been known to glide into the cavity of that organ. As Desault ob- serves, the urethra appears to possess a kind of antiperistaltic action, by which it tends to draw for, says he, it is constantly noticed, that, when these substances are once witiiin the urethra, if they be not expelled by the urine, they always’ advance towards the bladder; a circumstance, which cannot be accounted for by their weight. The insinuation of these foreign bodies into the bladder is a serious occurrence both for the patient and surgeon. The former cannot avoid rged. the consequence which will sooner or later ori- ginate from the extraneous substance, except by submitting to a dangerous and painful operation : the latter will be accused of being the author of all the evil, and will find it difficult to exculpate himself. In order to obviate the necessity of cutting into the bladder, in such cases. Desault proposed the use of small spring-forceps, passed into the bladder through a cannula, but, although the instrument seemed to answer on the dead subject, no instances of its doing so on living- patients are on record. Were any instrument likely to succeed, I think it would be the urethra- forceps, shaped like a sound, employed by Sir A. Cooper for the extraction of small calculi from the bladder. (See Lithotomy and Urinary Calculi. 10. Retention of Urine from Inflammation of the Urethra. In order to comprehend the mechanism of this case, it is necessary to re- member, that inflammation never exists, without swelling, and that every tumefaction of the lining of the urethra, must necessarily lessen its dia- meter. Inflammation of the urethra is most commonly produced by the external application, or internal exhibition, of lvttae; by gonorrhoea; the unskilful use of the catheter; the employ- ment of stimulating injections; bougies; &c. Together with the lessening of the canal by the effect of swelling, there can also be no doubt, that, in many of these instances, a spasmodic contraction of the urethra and neck of the blad- der also contributes to the retention of urine. Although Desault believed, that inflamed parts, endued with a contractile power, were not dis- posed to contract in that state, yet, it should be recollected, that even admitting this to be true, the whole length of the urethra is seldom inflamed, arid a part of it may therefore be affected with a spasmodic action, without the theory espoused by Desault being at all implicated. The effects of opium, tobacco, and other antispasmodics, often evinced in immediately relieving these kinds of retention of urine, seem indeed to leave no doubt respecting the existence of a sort of spasui in the passage. Whatever may be the cause of inflammation of the urethra, the diagnosis is free from all obscurity. Besides the general svmptoms of inflammation, the patient complains 4 C