'ATI ON. 84 AMP in this joint, but much higher than is generally sanctioned, may he followed with advantage. The tourniquet should be applied to the fe- moral artery, about two thirds of the way down the thigh, just before the vessel perforates the tendon of the triceps muscle. This place is much more convenient than the ham, where it is very difficult to compress the vessel against the bone. The patient is to be placed upon a firm table, as in the amputation of the thigh, and the leg being properly held by one assistant, while the integuments are drawn upward by another, the surgeon, with one quick stroke of the knife, is to make a circular incision through the in- teguments all round the limb. Some recom- mend the operator to stand on the inside of the leg, in order that Ire may be able to saw both bones at once. No reflections could ever make me perceive, that any real advantage ought strictly to be imputed to this plan. Many suppose this method diminishes the chance of the fibula being splintered, this bone being com- pletely divided rather sooner, than the tibia. But splintering the bones generally arises from the assistant depressing the limb too much, or else not supporting it enough. If the assistant were to be guilty of this mismanagement, it would be difficult to explain, why, the tibia should not be splintered, instead of the fibula, when a certain thickness of it had been sawn through. At the same time, it must be admitted, that if the surgeon prefer standing on the inside of the limb, there is no objection to it at the time of using the saw; but, before this period, in amputating the right leg, there is great con- venience in having the left hand next to the wound, as is the case, when the surgeon stands on the outside of the right limb. Hence I have seen many hospital surgeons, in amputating the right leg, cut the soft parts, while they stood on the outside of the limb, and having done this part of the operation, they proceeded to the other side of the member for the purpose of applying the saw. I have only to repeat, that, I do not think any particular reason exists against sawing the two bones together, yet, in such manner, ns to let the fibula be divided entirely through first; and, the advantage of fixing this bone acainst the tibia bv the pressure of the hands of the assistants, while the surgeon is sawing it, is another circumstance, which influences a great many writers to commend the latter plan. Graefe, who, as already mentioned, prefers the true flap- operation, doeit not think it advisable for the surgeon to stand on the inside of the limb in his method of operating, because when the knife is introduced through the muscles of the calf, its point would be apt to go between the two bones. (N»rmen fur die Aid. g/bTerer Glieilm. ]>. 13(b) The following are -the precepts, given by him respecting the sawing of the bones. They should, he says, be divided as high as possible; and, during this part of the operation, the fibula is to be firmly pressed by the assistant against the tibia, above and below the wound, so as not to be shaken too much in consequence of the weakness of its upper articular connexion. Gracf ■ then directs the surgeon, as he stands on the outside of the limb, to apply the saw, as high as possible, close to the periosteum, with the handle downwards, and to saw both the bones together, until a groove deep enough for the guidance of the saw is made in each of them. The foot is now to be turned very much in- wards, and the fibula completely divided, the handle of the saw being depressed as far as practicable. The foot is then to be inclined outwards, and the tibia cut through, the saw, with its handle elevated, being placed in the furrow already prepared for it. By beginning with making a groove in both bones, we are sure, says Graefe, of sawing them through exactly at the same height. The plan of beginning the division of the bones with the handle of the saw depressed, however, must certainly be incon- venient. A circular cut having been made through the integuments, about two inches below the place where it is intended to saw' the bones, the next object is to preserve skin enough to cover the front of the tibia, and the part of the stump, corre- sponding to the situation of the tibialis anticus, ex- tensor iongus pollicis pedis, and other muscles, between the tibia and fibula, and those covering the latter bone. Throughout this extent, there are no bulky muscles which can be made vefv serviceable in covering the end of the stump, and consequently, the operator must take care to preserve sufficient skin in this situation, by dis- secting it from the parts beneath, and turning it up. On tiie back part of the leg, on the contrary, the skin should never be uselessly detached to a great extent from the large gastrocnemius mus cle, which, with the soleus, will here form a suf- ficient mass for covering the stump. However, the experience which I had in the army, taught me the truth of a remark made by Graefe, that, in forming the posterior flap of muscle, it is a matter of the highest importance to let the in- teguments be somewhat longer than it; for, otherwise, when it is turned forward, as it must be for the purpose of covering the ends of the bones, its front edge will be left uncovered by integuments, which being the outermost describe a greater circumference than the deeper muscular Hap. (Normal f ur die Aid. griisseier Gliedm. p. 131.) I was fully convinced of the truth of this observation, by tw'o amputations which were doner, by myself, one in the neighbourhood of Antwerp, in 1814, and the other at Brussels, the day after the battle of Waterloo. Yet Graefe, who per- forms the flap-amputation, strictly so called, (that is to say, the operation in which a flap of skin, corresponding in shape to the flap of muscle, is preserved) does not himself detach the skin from the muscles of the calf at all, but, at the time of making the incision in that situation, directs one assistant to pull up the integuments, while another bends the foot as much as possible, which ma- noeuvres have the effect of letting the muscles be cut rather shorter than the skin. Unfortunately, however, in many cases, the very nature of the disease, or injury, for which the operation is performed, would not admit of these proceed- ings. Nor, in a very muscular limb, would they be likely to suffice, as Graefe himself confesses, since, in such cases, he recommends the use of a knife bent laterally, for the purpose of excavating, as it were, as the incision is made, the thick mus- cular flap. (0/ • cii. 134.) In the common method, with the circular incision, I am disposed