878 OPIITHALMY. alluded to, tbe practitioner must endeavour to re- move simply by proper treatment of the second stage. (Beer, B. 1, />. 254.) Beer’s fourth rule in the treatment of the, second stage of ophthalmy in general, and of idiopathic ophthalmy in particular, when the sup- purative process is extending itself, and threat- ening to impair the health, is, 1st. To allow the patient such food as is both easy of digestion, and of a very nutritious quality, and even a mo- derate quantity of wine and spirituous drinks, if he has been accustomed to them. 2d!y. To direct the patient to keep his eye exposed the greater part of the day, in a fresh, dry, and (if possible) mild air, and take just exercise enough in various ways to produce a slight degree of fa- tigue. 2dly. When the eye itself is affected with suppuration, and the sight is either thereby much impaired, or quite lost, and, of course, the patient very unhappy and depressed, Beer considers it highly beneficial to let his spirits be improved by society. The fifth rule, or, general indication in the second stage, laid down by Beer, refers to the necessity of supporting the constitution, when the suppurative process is attended with a ge- neral febrile disturbance. For this purpose, he re- commends, 1 st. Theexhibition of calamus aroma- ticus, naphtha, and camphor. 2dly. If they prove ineffectual alone, they are to be joined with other tonics, especially bark. 3dly. The warm bath, which, in consequence of the sympathy between the skin and eyes, is particularly efficacious. 4thly. Rubefacients, applied not far from the eye; means, which are exceedingly beneficial in the second stage of ophthalmy. (B. 1, p. 257.) As an appendix to these general remarks, de- livered by Beer, on the general treatment of ophthalmy in its first and second stages, I annex the sentiments of some other writers, as either confirming, or rendering questionable, some of his statements. According to Scarpa, when bleeding and other evacuations have been practised, the next most useful measure is the application of a blister to the nape of the neck. He observes, that the skin here and behind the ears, has a stronger sympathy with the eyes, than any other part of the integuments. On the other hand, the late Mr. Ware preferred blistering the temples, and says: “ When the leeches have fallen off. and the consequent hemorrhage has ceased, I would advise a blister of the size of half a crown, to be applied on the temples, directly over the orifices made by the leeches, and I have found, that the sooner the blister has followed the bleeding, the more efficacious both have proved.” He adds, that when ophthalmy is very violent, and resists common methods, the most beneficial effects are sometimes produced by the application of a blister large enough to cover the whole head. (P 43, 44.) With respect to blisters, another modern writer particularly objects to their being applied near the eye, or, on the temples, “ where they riever fail to prove injurious . 1 here is (says he) “ but one exception to this, as a general rule; for, it would seem, that blisters, applied to the external surface of the palpebrac, in eases of purulent ophthalmia, tend considerably to di- minish the puruleney and chemosis.” (Vetcli 1 on Diseases of the Eye, p. 17.) In the second stage of acute ophthalmy, thej1 vinous tincture of opium (the tinctura thebaica* ‘ has been very extensively used, as a topical apJ< plication. In common cases, two or three dropsji* may be insinuated between the eyelids and glob<X • of the eye, twice a day; but. in other instances^ attended with more sensibility, once at first willj- be sufficient. The late Mr. Ware, who brought!*; this application into great repute, found, that in-jo' troducing two, or three drops, of this medicinefe at the inner cantlius, and letting them glidelp gradually over the eye, by gently drawing downli* the lower eyelid, proved equally beneficial, andM less painful then letting them fall directly uponll1 the eyeball. Immediately the application isw made, it usually creates a copious flow of tears, a smarting, and a sense of heat in the eyes;f# which inconveniences, however, soon cease, andi * the eyes become clearer, and feel decidedly im-r 1 proved. But, notwithstanding every exaggera-i-* tion, unbiassed surgeons are now fully convinced, t 1 that the vinous tincture of opium is a proper application only when the inflammatory action p has been previously diminished by bloodletting, aperient medicines, and blisters, and when the;, action of the vessels has been weakened by the A continuance of the disease. Nor is any doubt i entertained, that the late Mr. Ware went much ■ too far, when he recommended the vinous tincture ; ; of opium, as a most effectual application, in ;j{ every species and stage of the disorder, from the | most mild and recent to the most obstinate and * inveterate. (P. 51.) Scarpa has seen the ne- cessity of limiting the use of the remedy in • question, and has expressly pointed out, that it is useful only when the violence of the pain, and the aversion to light, have abated. Indeed, Mr. Ware himself, a little before sanctioning its em- ployment in all cases, has acknowledged, that, in certain instances, in which the complaint is generally recent, the eyes appear shining and j glossy, and feel exquisite pain on exposure to the ! light, no relief at all was obstained. (P. 48, j 49.) Mr. Travers has remarked, that “ there are inflammations, which assume a chronic cha- racter in their commencement, evidently depend- ing on a state of atony, of very partial extent, void of pain, and scarcely possessing any sign j of inflammation, except the congestion of the j vessels, or, if any, so feebly marked, as to en- courage us to disregard them in the treatment ; In such cases, a single stimulus will often restore the healthy action at once. The vinous tincture of opium has acquired a nostrum-like importance from its restorative operation in such cases; a virtue, I believe, not proper to it A drop or two of the zinc, or the lunar caustic solution, or water impregnated with calomel, or a minute portion of the citrine ointment, or any other stimulant, would do as much.” (Synopsis, <£e- j p. 2.52.) Whenever the patient can easily bear a mo- derate degree of light, Scarpa directs all cover- ings to be removed from the eyes, except a shade of green, or black silk. A brighter light should be gradually admitted into the chamber every day, so that the eyes may become habitu- ated, as soon as possible, to the open day-light; for, as Scarpa truly states, nothing has a greater