ANEURISM. lirjuo being exposed, was carefully opened, and also the internal oblique, when the finger, being introduced between the peritoneum and trans- versalis, served as a director for the crooked bistoury, which divided the muscle. Avoiding all unnecessary disturbance, Mr. Freer separated the peritoneum with his finger, till he could feel the artery beating, which was so firmly bound down, that he could not get his finger under it without dividing its fascia. The vessel having been separated from tfie surrounding parts, a curved blunt needle, armed with a strong ligature, was put under it, and tied yery tight, with the in- tention of dividing the internal coats of the vessel. The operation led to a perfect cure. ( Freer on Aneurism, p. 83; 4in. 1807. ) Mr. Tomlinson, of the same town, was also an early performer of the operation: he applied only one ligature, and, of course, left the artery undivided: the event was attended with perfect success. The following is Mr. A. Cooper’s mode of ope- rating, as described by Mr. Hodgson. A semilunar incision is made “through the integuments, in the direction of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. One extremity of this incision will be situated near the spine of the ilium : the other will terminate a little above the inner margin of the abdominal ring. The apo- neurosis of the external oblique muscle will be exposed, and is to be divided throughout the extent and in the direction of the external wound. The flap, which is thus formed, being raised, the spermatic cord will be seen passing under the margin of the internal oblique, and transverse muscles. The opening in the fascia, which lines the transverse muscle, through which the sper- matic cord passes, is situated in the midspace between the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis. The epigastric artery runs precisely along the inner margin of this opening, beneath which the external iliac artery is situated. If the finger, therefore, be passed under the spermatic cord, through this opening in the fascia, it will come into immediate con- tact with the artery, which lies on the outside of the external iliac vein. The artery and vein are connected together by dense cellular mem- brane, which must be separated to enable the operator to pass a ligature, by means of an aneurism needle, round the former.” (Oa Dis- eases of Arteries, p. 421—422.) The foregoing incision, the convexity of which is turned outward, and downward, extends from within and a little above the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to above and a little within the middle part of Poupart’s liga- ment. Mr. Norman, of Bath, who has tried both modes of operating, found that proposed by Mr. A. Cooper, a more easy way of finding the ex- ternal iliac artery, than the longitudinal incision practised by Mr. Abernethy. “ The objection, (says Mr. Norman,) to Mr. Cooper’s mode of operntingm cases, where the tumour extends high up, is by no means well founded ; for the lower part of the bag of the peritoneum, lying on the edge of Poupart’s ligament, must in every case be exposed dnd detached, in order to get at the artery, which lies behind the posterior part ol that membrane, and this is most easily effected by an incision in the direction of Poupart’s liga- ment ; whilst two thirds of the longitudinal inci- sion are made on a part of the peritoneum, which lines the abdominal muscles, and the lower por- tion only of the incision, reaches that part of the membrane, which is to be separated. The con- sequences of this are, that the peritoneum is in much greater danger of being wounded, and that the probability of a hernia forming after the cure, is much increased by the extensive division of the oblique muscles.” (See Med. Cliir. Tru>. vol. 10, p. 101.) As far as I am able to judge, these remarks are well founded, and they coin- cide with some observations, which were made some years ago by Roux, who, while he inclined .to Mr. Abernethy’s method, saw the disadvan- tage of letting the direction of the wound in this instance correspond to the course of the ar- tery. Hence, after many trials on the dead sub- ject, helaid down the rule, thatthebeginning of the wound should never be further, than half an inch from, and a veiy little higher, than the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and that it should be carried very obliquely downwards, to the mid- dle of Poupart’s ligament. (See AComeaux Die- mens de Alcd. Op. '/'. 1, p. 747. dr.) In a case, operated upon by Mr. Kirby, a hernia followed, in the situation where' the abdo- minal muscles had been divided. (See Cases with Observations, p. 109, Hvn. Land. 1319.) Dr. Post in one case found the peritoneum so thickened and diseased, that he could not raise it from the subjacent parts, and he was obliged to make an opening in it. The protruding viscera were then pushed back, and, with a needle, a liga- ture was introduced under the artery, the perito- neum being also included in the ligature. Not- withstanding the disadvantageous method of ope- rating, and the return of pulsation in the swell- ing, the patient had so far recovered in three months, as to have regained the use of the limb. (See American Med. and Phil. Reg. vol. 4, p. 413.) In one remarkable case, Air. Newbiggin, by tying the external iliac artery, cured both an in- guinal and a popliteal aneurism together. (See Julia. Med. <£■' Surg. Journal, for Jan. 1816, p. 71, dr.) The many operations, which have now been done on the external iliac artery, have im- pressed me with a conviction, that in subjects undey a certain age, there is no reason to fear, that the anastomoses will not generally suffice for the supply of the lower extremity. Out of twenty-five cases, I only know of three, in which the limb was attacked with gangrene. These three were patients of Air. A. Cooper, Bouchet, of Lyons, and Air. Collier. The proportion is not so much as one in eight. The three in- stances of gangrene were not all in the circum- stances, which permitted the event to be imputed to the anastomoses not having had sufficient time to enlarge, though perhaps Air. Collier’s case was such. On the other hand, we are to notice, tlmt Dr. Cole’s patient was operated upon a few days after the wound, and yet the limb was duly supplied with blood, and did not become gangrenous. It appears therefore to me, that the occasional occurrence of gangrene