SUPPURATION. 995 ie use of pus is perhaps unknown; for, it is >rmed most perfectly from healthy sores, and healthy constitutions; and large discharges om parts not very essential to life, produce very :tle change in the constitution, and as little upon ■jug healed up, whatever some may suppose to is contrary. (Hunter.) This is certainly the case with many old ul- :rs, the suppuration from which seems to have :t!e, or no effect, in impairing the health. Nor there any real reason to be afraid of healing tch ulcers, when possible, lest a worse disease :ould follow from the stoppage of a discharge, ■ which t!ic system is supposed to be so habitu- ed that the continuance of it must be essential health. i Every one knows, that when there is no inter- rence of art, that is, when the surface of a sore left uncovered, the thin part of the matter •aporates, and the thick part dries and forms a ab. Nature, therefore, seems to have de- nned, that one use of pus should be to make a iver, or protection, for ulcerated surfaces But cannot agree with what has been asserted tIunier), that the natural healing of a sore un- :r a scab takes place more quickly, than when irgieal dressings are employed. On ulcers, as would appear from modern mi- oseopieal observations, “ the coagulated pus is ndered tubular by the extrication of its carbo- c acid gas, and that these tubes, or canals, e immediately filled with red blood, and thus nnected with the circulation.” If this point established, Sir Everard Home conceives, it there will then be little difficulty in making t the succeeding changes, by means of which e coagulated pus afterwards becomes organized. hi the conversion of Pus into Granulations or re Flesh, in Phil. Trans. Vol. 109, p. 109, ond. 1819.) These statements are curious, d ought to have been noticed in the article ranuluiions, to which they more immediately late. Among the secondary uses of suppuration, ay be mentioned, opening a communication be- /een a disease and the external surface of the >dy; forming a passage for the exit of extra- :ous bodies, Ccc. UEATMEKT WIICN SUPPURATION MUST TAKE PLACE. ■ In cases of inflammation, arising from acci- »t, but so circumstanced, that we know sup- ration cannot be prevented, the indication is moderate the inflammation, which, if the wers are great, and the injury done consider- lc, will probably be very violent. If the eon- tution should also be much affected, certain •neral means are proper, such as bleeding, Iry'"g* and nauseating medicines. While the nstitutiori continues to be disturbed, suppura- »n cannot take place in the most favourable anner. In these cases, also, such medicines produce a gentle perspiration greatly relieve e patient, for instance, the pulv. ipecac, comp.; itimonialsj aq. ammon. acet.; saline draughts, -■ Opiates may produce a temporary diminu- »n of action; but, it is not always the consc- ience of this medicine, as there are constitu- >ns, which it renders more irritable, and of course where it aggravates the inflammatory ac- tion. The applications to inflammations, which are to suppurate and form an abscess, commonly used, are poultices and fomentations. These, however, appear to be applied without much cri- tical exactness, or discrimination ; for, they are applied before suppuration has taken place, and when this event is not desired ; and they are also applied after suppuration has taken place. With respect to suppuration itself, abstracted from all other considerations, the indication cannot be the same in every state; but if poultices and fomen- tations are found to be of real service in the two stages of the disease, there must be something common to both, for which they are of service, independently of simple suppuration. Poultices are useful, when the inflammation attacks the skin, either in the first instance or after an ab- scess has approached so near the skin, that this becomes secondarily affected. This benefit ap- pears to arise from the skin being kept soft and moist. Such is the use of a poultice in inflam- mation, either before or after suppuration, until the abscess is opened. But, when poultices and fomentations are applied to inflamed parts, in which we wish to avoid suppuration, reason and principle will not justify the practice, though such applications may be proclaimed by experi- ence to be very proper. (Hunter.") TREATMENT AFTER SUPPURATION HAS TAKEN PLACE, When suppuration cannot be stopper^ or re- solved, it is in general to be promoted. How far suppuration can be usefully promoted by medicines, or applications, is questionable; but attempts are generally made, and, for this purpose, suppurating cataplasms and plasters, composed of the warm gums, seeds, &c. were formerly much recommended. Mr. Hunter doubted, whether such applications had anv con- siderable effect in the way intended ; for, if thev were put on a sore, they would hardly increase the discharge from it, and, perhaps, even di- minish it. However, in many cases, in which the parts are indolent, and hardly admit of true inflammation, in consequence of which a perfect suppuration cannot take place, stimulating the skin brings on a more salutary, and of course a quicker inflammation. Thus, the antimonial ointment, and blistering the skin, over chronic swellings and abscesses, are sometimes indicated. These applications have been found, however, to bring the matter more quickly to the skin, even in the most rap:d suppurations. This effect has been mistaken for an increased formation of pus; but, this Consequence can only follow in cases, in which the inner surface of the abscess is within the influence of the skin. The accelerated progress of the matter to the surface of the body arises from another cause, viz. the promotion of ulceration in the parts, between the collection of matter, and the cuticle. Emollient poultices are commonly applied to inflamed parts, when suppuration is known to have taken place. These can hqve no effect upon suppuration, except that of lessening tlic influmma ion, or rather making the skip iqoro easy. The inflammation must have reached the « § 2