437 EXOSTOSIS. gical assistance. (Traite des Mai. Cliir. T. 3, v. 514—557.) Whether any exostoses might be lessened bv keeping open a blister over them, for a considerable time, is a point, perhaps, worthy of further investigation. It is certain, that such applications tend to diminish venereal nodes, after they have been lessened as much as they can be by mercury; and we also know, that blisters, kept open, promote the absorption of the dead bone in cases of necrosis. In the local treatment, Mr. A. Cooper approves of the use both of leeches and blisters, a discharge from the latter being kept up with equal parts of the mer- curial and savin ointments. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 169.) When exostoses merely occasion a deformity, and no pain, nor inconvenience, from the pres- sure which they produce on the neighbouring parts, it is certainly most advisable not to under- take any operation for their removal; for, as Boyer has truly observed, in by far the greater number of instances, the local affection is much less to be dreaded, than the means used for re- moving it. Caustics and the cautery have occasionally been applied to exostoses; but they mostly do mischief. Boyer mentions an unfortunate wo- man, who had some caustic applied to an exos- tosis at the inside of the tibia; but which, in- stead of removing the tumor, caused a necrosis, of which she was not well two years afterwards. In a few instances, however, after the removal of fungous, or cartilaginous exostoses, of the interior of a bone with cutting instruments, the application of the cautery has prevented a repro- duction of the diseased mass, as we find exempli- fied in a case recorded by Mr. A. Cooper, where such a disease of the jaw was thus extirpated. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 158.) The bold, and successful manner, also, in which the hydatid exostosis of the head was attacked with the saw, caustics and the actual cautery, by Mr. R. Keate, is particularly entitled to the attention of the surgical practitioner. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10. p. 288, <5fc.) As far as my information ex- tends. no attempt to stop the progress, and effect the cure of a fungous exostosis, by tying the main artery of the limb, has ever yet succeeded. Two cases, proving the inefficacy of this prac- tice, are detailed by Mr. A. Cooper. (Vol. cit. p. 170.) As the fungous exostosis of the medullary membrane is evidently connected with a state of the constitution, analogous to what prevails in fungous haematodes, (see this word) the per- manent success of amputation should never be too boldly premised; but, as no medicines have iny material power over the disease, and the operation is the only chance of relief, it ought to ae advised. Cartilaginous nostoses of the medullary mem- >rane may sometimes be extirpated by removing heir outer bony covering, and then cutting iway the cartilaginous matter closely from the >ony surface to which it is attached. Sorrie- imes, as I have noticed, these measures are fol- owed by the use of the actual cautery. Pcrwsteul exostoses are also either cartilagi- tous, or fungous, which latter are attended with css general swelling of the limb, and are more >rominent than fungous exostoses of the medul- lary membrane. Ulceration, bleeding, sloughing, and great discharge ensue, and, unless some operation be performed, the patient loses his life. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 180.) The cartilaginous exostosis, between the peri- osteum and bone, arises from inflammation of the periosteum, and subjacent part of the bone, and a deposition of firm cartilage, adherent to both these surfaces, takes place. In this substance bony matter is secreted, which is first thrown out from the original bone. As the cartilage increases in bulk, the quantity of phosphate of lime augments, and fresh cartilage is constantly deposited upon the outer surface of the tumor. On dissection;—1st, the periosteum is found thicker than natural; 2dlv, immediately below the periosteum, cartilage; and 3dly, ossific mat- ter, deposited within the latter, from the shell of the bone, nearly to the inner surface of the pe- riosteum. When the growth of such a swelling ceases, and the disease is of long standing, the exterior surface consists of a shell of osseous mat- ter, similar to that of the original bone, and communicating with its cancelli, in consequence of the primitive shell having been absorbed. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 186.) The periosteal cartilaginous exostoses constitute the indolent, very hard forms of the disease. In their early stage, they ma)r sometimes be checked by small doses of mercury, the decoction of sarsaparilla, and the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro. (Vol. at. p. 196.) When large, or troublesome, they may be sawn away, as Mr. A. Cooper states, without danger, if the disease be well discriminated from the fungous swelling. When exostoses are productive of much pain and injure the health, and their situation admits of their being safely removed, with the aid of suitable saws, or even with that of a gouge and mallet; the operation may be undertaken. Many tumors of this kind, however, have bases so very extensive, and deep, that, when situated on the limbs, amputation becomes preferable to any attempt made to saw or cut away the exos- toses, and preserve the members on which they are situated. In removing an exostosis, its base must be as freely exposed by the knife, as circumstances will allow, and to this part a small fine saw may be applied. In cutting away some exostoses, the flexible saw, described by Dr. Jeffray, of Glasgow, (see Amputation, p. 102,) will be found useful. Mr. Hey’s saws are now so well known to the profession, that I scarcely need recommend them to be remembered in the present cases. Mr. Machell, a surgeon in London, has invented a saw, well calculated for cutting a bone at a great depth, without injuring the muscles. It is a small, fine, perpendicular wheel-like saw, turned by means of a handle connected with ma- chinery. It is highly commended by Mr. A. Cooper, who has given a drawing of it in his Surgical Essays, Part 1. An orbicular saw, in- vented and used by Professor Graefe, of Berlin, likewise merits particular notice on account ol its ingenuity. (See C. G E. Schuialb dc Serra Orbi- cularip 4 to. Berol. 1819.) A strong pair of bone- nippers will also be useful. E. Victoria dc Ossibus tuberosis Upsal. 1717. Haller, Disp. Chir. .4, 561. P• H. Mashring dc Exostosi Steatomatodc Claviculev, ejusdem Jelici Sedionc. Gcdani• 1732. J. Cusparl dc EtusUisi