ANUS. 193 and sew inf the intestine ; the general adoption of which practice fully accounts to my mind for the number of artificial ani, which are the sequel® of hernia. ” (0P‘ c,f- ]u 967.) The treatment of an artificial anus, is either palliative, or radical. The first consists in obviat- ing the habitual uncleanliness, produced by the involuntary discharge of the intestinal matter, and in relieving such bad symptoms, as may arise from the disorder. The first indication is fulfilled by the employ- ment of silver, or tin machines, which are either kept applied to the external opening by means of a spring, or form receptacles placed more or less off the artificial anus, from which the intestinal matter is transmitted through a tube, kept con- stantly in the opening. In general, says De- sault, as elastic gum is supple, light, and capable of taking any shape, it is the best material for the construction of such instruments, which, however, rarely answer their purpose completely, and always give the patient a great deal of trouble. As for the second indication, Richter, with the view of hindering the too quick escape of the in- testinal matter, and the death of the patient from this cause, proposed covering, the opening for a certain time with a piece of sponge, supported by an elastic bandage, or truss. But Loefiler found this method objectionable, as it was apt to bring on colic, constipation, and inflammation, and ex- coriation, of the skin. When the outer opening is disposed to con- tract too much, and inconveniences arise from this change, Sabatier is an advocate for prevent- ing such closure by means of a tent, or skein of silk, introduced into the aperture, and changed very often for the sake of cleanliness; while others prefer a ring of ivory for the purpose. But the irritation produced by the matter im- bibed by this sort of tent, and in particular the liability of the bowel to protrude, and be strangu- lated in the opening of the ivory ring, are found strong objections to these practices; and, ac- cording to Desault, the sponge, employed by Richter, also occasions a great deal of excoriation by the irritation of the fluid which is lodged in it. For the purposes of hindering a protrusion of the gut, of keeping the opening sufficiently pervious, of relieving any uneasiness and tenes- mus, of hindering the intestinal matter from es- caping in the intervals of dressing, and confining it long enough for the adequate nourishment of the patient, Desault preferred a linen tent, or stopper, covered by a pad of charpie, compresses, and a tight bandage. At first, says he, the pa- tient feels some uneasiness from this plan, and slight colics may be the consequence of it; but, by degrees, the parts become habituated to their new state, and every thing goes on well. With respect to the employment of tents and plugs, with the views above indicated, I am disposed to think the practice can rarely be advisable, and that any necessity for it may be obviated by at- tention to diet, and the occasional exhibition of laxative medicines and clysters, as will be here- after noticed. When the gut protrudes, its re- 1 action is to be effected in the same way, as a common prolapsus ani; but considerable diffi- <ii ty will occur when the protruded part is in- »med, thickened, and of considerable size. Surgeons, indeed, have usually regarded the re- duction as being impracticable in these circum- stances; but, according to Desault, this is not the case, as compression with a bandage, kept up for some days, will succeed. Care must be taken, however, to leave a sufficient opening for the passage of the feces. Whatever may be the size of the protrusion, Desault argues, that it should be the invariable rule of the surgeon to endeavour to return the part by the means here suggested. (See CEuvres Chir. de Desault, T. 2, p. 361, cj-c.) The radical cure is what is next to be con- sidered. The business of the surgeon is to prevent, if possible, the formation of an ar- tificial anus; but, when the event has occurred, and, particularly, when the whole, or the greater part, of the stools is discharged in this way, no attempt must be made to stop up the opening, without a great deal of consideration; for, any effort of this kind, made under circumstances which do not justify it, may be the means of ex- posing the patient’s life to the most alarming danger. Sometimes, indeed, without any inter- ference of the surgeon, the outward opening con- tracts, and, the issue of the intestinal matter being obstructed, pain and tenesmus are excited; and the same consequences may be produced by any swelling and enlargement of the projecting ridge, situated between the two portions of the bowel. In two cases, Puy found this swelling take place in such a degree, that the patients fell victims to the complete stoppage of the intestinal contents. The symptoms, which arise, are then similar to those which happen in strangulated hernia. Hoin, Le Blanc, and Sabatier, also cite instances, in which the patients lost their lives by gangrene being brought on by this species of strangulation. (Desault, Vol. cit. p. 560.) There is a period (says Mr. Travers), at which the function of the lower portion of the canal, with a little assistance, may be restored. The natural order of events, connected with this recovery, has been mistaken and inverted. Prac- titioners have closed the wound, instead of con- ducting the matter by purgatives and clysters into the large intestines. Now,/the wound will never fail to heal, when the matter recovers its accustomed route; but, this condition cannot be reversed. The restoration is safest, when most gradual; when there is evidence of an existing sympathy between the repair of structure, and the return of function. According to the same gentlemau, there is reason to believe, that the well-timed exhibition of a single purgative might often prove effectual. “ If the food is rapid, and little changed, in its passage, it should be pulta- ceous and nutritive, and given in moderate quan- tity at short intervals; while injections of the same kind should be administered at least twice in twenty-four hours, and retained as long as possible.” He states, that, by such means, pa- tients may be nourished for many weeks. If the discharge is sparing, and docs not readily escape, he recommends an occasional purgative in less than ordinary quantity. He disapproves ot other medicines, especially stimulants, and all such food as is difficult of digestion, giving a general preference to animal food in a gelatinous forni. He bestows just praise on strict attention to cleanliness, and in opposition to Desault and