VENEREAL DISEASE. 1147 i ; certainty of its future change into actual dis- observed, which in men is the common seat of a ease; the impossibility of curing it by mercury, chancre, is like every other part of the body, 11 previously to such change ; but, the possibility liable to diseases of the ulcerative kind, and, on I preventing its formation at all by the timely use some accounts, is rather more so, than oilier I of that remedy. parts. When attention is not paid to cleanliness. Dr. Clutterbuck has well observed, that the excoriations, or superficial ulcers often originate, j only foundation for all these hypotheses, con- The genitals, also, like almost every other part | : nected with the phrase disposition, is the fact, that has been injured, when once they have suf- L that secondary symptoms sometimes arise, not- fered from the venereal disease, are very liable 1 withstanding a full use of mercury. If, says to ulcerate again. Since therefore, the penis is ; this gentleman, we were to suppose, with Mr. not exempted from common diseases, every [ i Hunter, that all the parts, which are susceptible, judgment of the nature of ulcers upon it, as Mr. j become at once contaminated, and mercury has Hunter truly remarks, should be formed with i ! no influence over them in this state, the consti- great attention, particularly, as all diseases upon | ; tution should become affected in almost all cases, this part are suspected to be venereal. But, for : for absorption probably always precedes the ap- a particular description of the many ordinary .plication of remedies. Either, therefore, mer- complaints, which are apt to occur on the icury does prevent the future action, or a more genitals, either preceded, or unpreceded, by ! frequent absence of susceptibility to the disease, sexual intercourse, I refer to Mr. Evans’s trea- i miust be supposed, than there are grounds for tise. (See Pathological and Practical Remarks i imagining. (Remarks on the Opinions of Mr. on Ulcerations of the Genital Organs, 8 vo. Load. Hunter, p. 9—12.) But, surgeons of the pre- 181.9.) From facts already mentioned in this !: -sent day, enlightened by many new facts un- article, however, it would appear, that primary i equivocally determined since Mr. Hunter’s time, syphilitic ulcers, or chancres, by which 1 imply know very well, that a disposition to the disease sores, capable of giving rise to the secondary i is in many instances not produced at all, even symptoms of the venereal disease, have no de- though the matter of a chancre be supposed terminate external character, are extremely di- to be absorbed, since in a large proportion versified in their appearance, and absolutely can- of cases of chancres, which had all the charac- not be distinguished by their mere look from i t teristic appearances of such ulcers, according to sores, which are of a common, or at least a very ■ .'Mr. Hunter’s own description, no secondary different nature. This is another important fact, j I symptoms followed, though the patients were for which every man in the profession who seeks treated and cured without any mercury. Yet, only truth, and the expulsion of errors from the if Mr. Hunter’s theory were true, the disposi- doctrines of surgery, must feel obliged to the tion must have been produced, the action or dis- army surgeons. Nor is their merit lessened by ease itself in the form of secondary symptoms the consideration, that the detection of mistake must have ensued, sooner or later, and no cure on this point, like the discovery of the error, could have been ultimately effected without mer- concerning the invariable progress of the vene- cury. Fortunately for mankind, unsound as some real disease from bad to worse, unless medicine of the theories seem, which are attached by Mr. be given, has taken place in opposition to the Hunter to the supposed disposition to the vene- tenets of Mr. Hunter “ Venereal ulcers (says real disease, or its latent form, there was one he) commonly have one character, which, how- piece of advice given by him, which may be said ever, is not entirely peculiar to them ; for many to have had a beneficial effect in practice, though sores, that have no disposition to heal (which is founded upon these very doctrines; and it was the case with a chancre,) have so far the same this, “that we should push our medicine no character. A chancre has commonly a thickened farther, than the cure of the visible effects of the base, and, although in some, the common inflam- poison, and allow whatever parts may be con- mation spreads much further, yet the specific is taminated to come into action afterwards.” (On confined to this base.” (P. 215.) And, else- the Venereal Disease, p. 334.) This maxim, I where, he observes, a chancre first begins with an know, has been regarded by some admirers of itching in the part. When the inflammation is long salivations, as the cause of many relapses, on the glans penis, a small pimple, full of matter, and imperfect cures; but, when I advert to the generally arises, without much hardness, or seem- dreadful mischief, which formerly attended pro- ing inflammation, and with very little tumefac- tracted courses of mercury for latent and ima- tion; for, the glans penis is not so apt to swell, ginary complaints, my mind regrets, that Mr. in consequence of inflammation, as many other Hunter himself should not have adhered strictly parts are, especially the prepuce. Mr. Hunter in practice to his own principle, from which he also explains, that chancres, situated on the glans, undoubtedly deviated with his patients, and even are not attended wi th so much pain and incon- in certain other parts of his writings. However, venience, as sores of this nature on the prepuce, the effect has been to discourage long courses When chancres occur on the frsenulB, or par- of mercury; and, perhaps, in this way, the world ticularly on the prepuce, a much more consider- bas been benefited by the counsel, though not able degree of inflammation soon follows, at- rigorousiy adopted by him who gave it. Con- tended with effects, more extensive and visible, fussing my own inability to reconcile the various These latter parts, being composed of very loose theories, about the nature and effects of the cellular membrane, afford a ready passage for venereal poison, to many facts, which are dis- the extravasated fluids. The itching is gradu- closed in practice, I shall now proceed to offer a ally converted into pain ; in some cases, the sur- lew remarks on each of the primary and second- face of the prepuce is excoriated, and afterwards ary symptoms. ulcerates; while, in other examples, a small pim- Chancrcs. The penis, as Mr. Hunter hu3 pie or abscess appears on the glans, and then