CICATRTZ \TION. 335 I urethra;, ami makes it unequal in this respect to the corpora cavernosa penis, and therefore a cur- vature takes place at the time of an erection, which is called a chordee. The curvature is generally in the lower part of the penis. When the chordee is violent, the inner membrane of the urethra is so much upon the stretch, that it may be torn, and a profuse bleeding from the urethra excited, that often relieves the patient, and even some- times proves a cure. This is the inflammatory chordee; there is another kind, which has been named spasmodic. In the beginning of the inflammatory chordee, bleeding from the arm is often of service; but it is more immediately useful to take blood from the part itself by leeches; for, we often find, that when a vessel gives way, and bleeds a good deal, the pa ■ tient isgreatlyrelieved. Exposing the penis to the steam of hot water frequently gives great relief. Poultices have also beneficial effects ; and both fomentations and poultices will often do most good when they contain camphor. Opium, given internally, is of singular service; and il it be joined with camphor, the effect will be still greater. When the chordee continues after all inflamma- tion has terminated, no evacuations are required ; for, the consequences of the inflammation will cease gradually by the absorption of the extravasated coagulating lymph. Mercurial ointment, rubbed on the part, will considerably promote this event. When the common methods of cure are unavail- ing, hemlock is sometimes very useful. Elec- tricity may be of service. A chordee is often longer in going off, than any other consequence of a gonorrhoea, but, in the end, it disappears. For bringing about the removal of the extra- vasated lymph, camphorated mercurial ointment . s better, than the simple unguentum hydrargyri. According to Mr. Hunter, the spasmodic chordee > s much benefited by bark. (.See his Treatise on he Venereal Disease, Ed. 2.) CICATRIX. A scar: the mark left after he healing of a wound, or ulcer. CICATRIZATION. The process by which rounds and sores heal. Granulations having >een formed, the next object of nature is to cover hem with skin. The parts which had receded y their natural elasticity, in consequence of the reach made in them, now begin to be brought agether by the contraction of the granulations, .'he contraction takes place at every point, but rineipally from edge to edge, which brings the rcumference of the sore towards the centre, so lat the sore becomes smaller and smaller, even ithough little, or no new skin is formed. The contracting tendency is in some degree roportioned to the general healing disposition of >e sore, and looseness of the parts. When •anulations are formed upon a fixed surface, eir contraction is mechanically impeded ; as, r instance, on the skull, the shin, &c. Hence, all operations on such parts, as much skin ould be saved as possible. When there lias been a loss of substance, >aking a hollow sore, and the contraction of the anulatious has begun, and made a good deal of ogress, before they have had time to rise as -?h as the skin, then the edges of the skin arc nerally drawn down, and tucked in by it, in P.p°,low direction of the surface of the sore. J be contraction of the granulations continues, till the healing is complete ; but it is greatest at first. That there is a mechanical resistance to such contraction, is proved by the assistance, which may be given to the process by the application of a bandage. Besides the contractile power of the granula- tions, there is also a similar power in the sur- rounding edge of the cicatrizing skin, which assists the contraction of the granulations, and is generally more considerable than that of the granulations themselves, drawing the mouth of the wound together, like a purse. The contractile power of the skin is confined principally to the very edge, where it is cicatrizing, and, as Hunter believed, to those very granulations, which have already7 cicatrized; for, the natural or original skin surrounding this edge does not contract, or at least not nearly so much, as appears by its having been thrown into folds and plaits, while the new skin is smooth and shining. The uses of the contraction of granulations are various. It facilitates the healing of a sore, as there are two operations going on at the same time, viz. contraction and skinning. It avoids the formation of much new skin, the advantage of which is evident; for it is with the skin as with all other parts of the body, viz. that such as are originally formed are much fitter for the purposes of life, than those which are newly formed, and not nearly so liable as ulceration. When the whole surface of a sore has skin- ned over, the substance, the remains of the granulations, on which the new skin is formed, still continues to contract, till hardly any thing more is left than what the new skin stands upon. This is a very small part, in comparison with the first formed granulations, and it in time loses most of its apparent vessels, becoming white and ligamentous. All newly healed sores are at first redder than the common skin, but in time they become much whiter. As the granulations contract, the surrounding old skin is stretched to cover the part, which had been deprived of skin. When a sore begins to heal, the surrounding old skin, close to the granulations, becomes smooth, and rounded with a whitish cast, as if covered with something white. This, Mr. Hunter supposed to he a beginning cuticle, and it is as early and sure a symptom of healing as anv. While the sore retains its red edge all round, for perhaps a quarter, or half an inch in breadth, we may be certain, that it is not in a healing state. Skin is a very different substance, with respect to texture, from the granulations upon which ilis formed; but it is not known, whether it is a new substance formed by the granulations, or a change in the surface of the granulations themselves. The new skin most commonly takes its rise from the surrounding old skin, as if elongated from it; but not always. In very large sores, hut principally old ulcers, in which the edges of the surrounding skin have hut little tendency to contract, and the cellular membrane underneath to yield, or the old skin to become drawn over the ulcerated surface, the nearest granulations do not acquire a cicatrizing disposition. In such cases, new skin forms in different parts of the ulcer, standing on the surface of the granulations, like little islands. Whatever change the granulations undergo to