vhenevcr it dries, so that the surface of the 6ore nay be kept constantly moist, when under this •ourse of management. Upon the same prin- •iple, simple ointment and Goulard’s cerate, fur- lish the best dressing in ordinary cases. “ Scrophulous congestions, of a solid nature, n the more external parts of the body, are little ulapted to the practice of local bleeding, unless hey be attended with symptoms of inflamma- \ ion; but as some degree of inflammation is, in 1 .general, present during the incipient stage, it nuv be prudent to employ local bleeding in mo- leration at the commencement of the attack, al- .hough there may be no indication to persist in he practice, after the complaint has advanced /arther in its progress. If, however, these con- gestions are more of an indolent nature, unac- companied with heat or pain, there is no benefit .0 be expected from the local detraction of blood; t varm fomentations, together with the use of itimulants, and a repetition of blisters, are the most serviceable class of remedies: such cases, too, are the best adapted to the use of friction as t discutient. Friction, indeed, has long been ■ employed for this purpose; but, of late years, it has been introduced to an extent, and with an effect, far beyond the experience of all former f| practice. As yet, it has been circumscribed to the practice of a very few individuals, with whom ■ it is said to have performed very great cures; iand if, upon the test of more extensive expe- rience, it is found to answer its present high character, I shall consider the use of repeated : frictions to be one of the most valuable improve- i ments which has been introduced into practice in modem times. The safety and simplicity of the practice recommend it very strongly to favour, though I am afraid they are the very circum- stances which retard its adoption by the public in general. I only regret that I do not feel myself entitled to give a decided opinion upon the sub- ject from my own experience, though I have known some instances of successful cures; but the reports of success are so numerous and so well supported, that I am inclined to think very favourably of the practice. “ There is no substance interposed between the surface of the swelling and the hand of the person who administers the friction, excepting a little flour, to prevent the abrasion of the skin. The friction is applied regularly two or three hours every day, with great celerity, the hand being made to move to and fro one hundred and twenty times in a minute, arid the course may require to be continued without interruption, for some months.’’ (See Russell on Scrophula.) I shall not enlarge upon this endless subject, which still stands in need of elucidation, as much a3 any disease, that can be instanced. The scro- plmlous affections of the joints are explained in •Joints. Bronchocclc f Lumbar Abscess ; Spina bifida; and Vertebra’., are other articles, contain- ing matter connected witli the preceding ob- servations. I’he reader may consult Wiseman's Chirur- gicnl Treatises. ./. Drown, Adenochoiradclo* or an anatomick-chir urgical Treatise of Glandules mid Strumitis, or KingfsEvil Swell- ingt,' together with the Hoyal Gift of Healing, nr ( arc thereof by contact, or imposition of hands, $c. fcji'u. Loud. 1684. IVrn, Clowes, SCROPHULA. A right frutefull and approved Treatise, for the Artificial Cure of the Struma, or Evil, cured by Kings and Queens of England, 4 to. Loud. ] 602. Cullen's First Lines of the Practice of Physic, Vol. 4. Feme on the King's Evil. Cheyne on the King's Evil. R. Russell, A Dissertation on the Use of Sea-Water in the Diseases of the Glands, <S[c. 8vo. Land. 1769. B. Bell's Surgery, Vol. 5. B. Bell on Ulcers. Tumor Strumosus Colli post vamitorium im- minutus. 8vo. (Weilcard, Collect. 88.) Kirk- land's Medical Surgery, Vol. 2. J. Morley, Essay on the Nature and Cure of Scrophulous Disorders, §c. New Ed. 8vo. Load. 1778. White on the Struma, Edit. 2. 1794. P. La- lonettc, Traitc dcs Scropliulcs, 4"C. Paris, 1780. A. G. Kortum's Comment, de Vitio Scrophu- loso, in 2 Vol. 4to. Lemgovice, 1789. R. Ha- milton, Observations on Scrophulous Affection, fyc. 8vo. Loud. 1791. London Med. Gbs. and Imp Vol. 1. S. T. Socmmerring, De Morbis Vasorum Absorbentium Corporis Humani. 8 vo. Traj. 1796. C. W. Hufeland, Ueber die- Natur, <§-c. der Skroplielkranlcheit. 8vo. Jena, 1795. Dissertations on Inflammation, by John Burns, Vol. 2. M. Underwood, Treatise upon Ulcers, 4-c. with Hints on a successful Method of treating some Scrofulous Tumors, §c. 8vo. Loud. 1785. Crowther's Obs. on the Disease of the Joints, commonly called White Swelling; with remarks on Caries, Necrosis, and Scro- phulous Abscesses, tSc. Edit. 2, 1808. A Treatise on Scrofula, by James Russell, 8vo. Edinburgh, 1808. Lectures onlnfanimation, by John Thomson, M.D.p. 130, ct scq. p. 155— 191, fyc. Edinb. 1813. This work contains as good, and as rational an account of the subject, as any book, which I have examined. Wm.- Goodlad, A Practical Essay on the Diseases of the Vessels and Glands of the Absorbent System+ 8vo. Loud. 1814. G. Henning, A Critical Inquiry into the Pathology of Scrof ula, 8vo. Lund. 1S15. Riclierand, Nosographie Chir. 7'. 1, p. 165, ct seq. Edit. 4. Delpech, Precis Eltmeniairc dcs Maladies, Chir. T. 3, p. 617, 5fc. Paris, 1816. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. 2,p. 383, Sc. Edit. 1809. Caliiscn, Sys- tema Chirurgiee Hodiermv, Vol. 2, p. 113, IInfnice, 1800. Boyer, Traitc dcs Maladies Chir. T. 2, p. 414,4c. Paris, IS 14. Ch. Brown, Treatise on Scrophulous Diseases, shewing the good Effects of factitious Airs. 8 vo. Loud. 1798. Baume, Traitc sur le vice Scro- phuleux, 8vo. Paris, 1808. J Brandish, Obs. on the use of caustic alkali in Scrofula, and other chronic Diseases, 8vo. Loud. 1811. C. Armstrong, Essay on Scrophula, in which an account of the Effects of the Carbonns Ammo- nut is submitted to the Profession. 8vo. Land. 1812. W. ■Lambe; Inquiry into the origin, cJ-c. of constitutional Disorders, particularly Scrophula, Consumption, Cancer, Sjc. 8vo. Louth 1805. Also Additional Exports on the Effects of a peculiar Regimen in cases of Cancer, Scro- phula, Use. 8vo. Loud. 1815. R. Carmichael. Essay on the Nature and Cure of Scrofula, and a demonstration of its origin from Disorder of Digestive Organs. 8vo. Dull. J. Rabbcu, Dr Prcccipuis Causis Mali Serifulosi ejusque Rrmediis ejjicacissimis commcnialio, ]2mo. Guilt. 1817. Alibert, Nosologic Naturelle,