455 FIIACTURES. a se former, que chrz toute autre personae( Op. cit. Tom. 2, •/>. 172.) The experience of Boyer also tends to prove, that pregnancy is not un- favourable to tiie union of fractures. (See Truite des Mal.'C/iir. T. 3, p- 32.) The cases, in which fractures remain disunited, will be considered in a future section of the pre- sent article. 5. Treatment of Fractures in general. The general treatment of fractures embraces three principal indications. The first is to re- duce the pieces of bone into their natural situa- tion. The second is to secure and keep them in this state. And the third, is to prevent any unpleasant symptoms likely to arise, and relieve them when they have come on. The first indication is only applicable to cases attended with displacement; for, when the frag-' ments are not out of their relative position, the surgeon must strictly refrain from all avoidable disturbance of the limb. His interference should then be limited to putting up the fracture, resist- ing the accession of all unfavourable symptoms, and removing them, if possible, after they have taken place. 6. Of the Reduction of Fractures. The means, employed for the reduction of fractures in general, are chiefly three, viz. ex- tensim; counter-extension; and coaptation, or setting. But, as Boyer remarks, these means should vary according to the species of displace- ment ; and surgical writers have generalized too much in representing them all three as necessary for the reduction of every kind of fracture. In fact, there are several cases, in which extension and counter-extension are positively useless : of this nature are fractures of the patella and ole- cranon, where the displacement consists of a separation of the fragments. Here the reduc- tion may be accomplished, by putting the limb in a position, in which the muscles attached to the upper part of the bone are relaxed, and then pushing the upper fragment into contact with ■the lower. Extension signifies the act of pulling the aroken part in a direction from the trunk, with a view of bringing the ends of the fracture into heir natural situation. By counter-extension, surgeons imply the act of making extension in he opposite direction, in order to hinder the limb, >r even the whole body, from being drawn along I >y the extending power, which would then be mavailing. It was formerly recommended to apply the extending force to the lower fragment, and the ounter-extension to the upper one. Such prac- ice, indeed, was advised by Mr. Pott, and is till generally preferred in this country; but tpon the continent, it has been abandoned. The 'bjections alleged against it by Boyer are: rst, that it is frequently difficult and sometimes "npossible, to take hold of the two fragments; s, for example, when the neck of the thigh - one is broken. Secondly, that by applying the xtension and counter-extension to the broken one itself, most of the muscles, which surround •> arc compressed, and such compression pro- nce3 in these organs a spasmodic contraction, which often renders the extension and counter- extension useless, and sometimes even hurtful. (TraitS des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 34.) The French surgeons, therefore, apply the extending force to that part of the limb, which is articulated with the lower fragment, and the counter-exten- sion to that, which is articulated with the upper. For instance, in a fracture of the leg, the ex- tending means act upon the foot, and the coun- ter-extending upon the thigh ; and in a fracture of the thigh, the extension is applied to the leg, while the counter-extending power fixes the pelvis. One circumstance must here occur to the mind of the surgical reader. In this country, it is pro- perly inculcated, that one of the first principles to be attended to in the reduction of fractures, is to put the limb in such a position as will relax the most powerful muscles connected with the broken bone; because these muscles principally impede the reduction, and disturb the ends of the fracture. But, in the French mode of making the extension and counter-extension, how can this grand principle be observed? If the extend- ing and counter-extending means are not to be applied to the broken bone itself; but, to others, which are articulated with it, the limb must of necessity be kept in a straight posture at the time of reducing the fracture; for, were the member placed in a half bent state, the extension and counter-extension, as practised by the con- tinental surgeons, would not be in the same line. If, therefore, it be advantageous to bend the limb at the time of reducing a fracture, the French mode of practising extension and counter-ex- tension must be relinquished. I am not, how- ever, one of those surgeons, who are entirely blinded with the idea of the possibility of relax- ing the whole of the muscles, connected with the broken bone, by merely bending the limb. On the contrary, I am perfectly convinced with Desault, that in general, what is gained by the relaxation of some muscles, is lost by the tension of others. But, where it is possible to relax by a certain posture the set of muscles most capable of preventing the reduction and disturbing the coaptation of a fracture, that posture I would select. Thus, in a fracture of the leg, the strong muscles of the calf undeniably possess this power, and the bent position, which relaxes them, ap- pears to me therefore the most judicious and ad- vantageous, not only during the reduction, but during the whole treatment of the case. A few years ago, I had under my care, in the military hospital at Cambray, a fracture of the tibia and fibula, which was at first treated in the straight posture. The gentlemen, who assisted me, reduced the fragments, and made them lie tolerably well. But, every time the bandage was opened, the bones were always found displaced again. Finding that this inconvenience went on for two or three weeks, we resolved to lay the limb on its outside, in the bent position. Not the least trouble was afterwards experienced in keeping the fragments reduced. Unless, there- fore, the situation of a wound, abscess, or some particular reason indicate an advantage or con- venience from the straight posture, 1 always re- duce a fractured leg in the best position, which will be hereafter described. Here, thereluie, I