433 EXOSTOSIS. within the shell of the disease. Periostoses, or mere thickenings of the periosteum, are also classed amongst the false exostoses. {Diet, ties Sciences Med. T. 14, p. 218.) According to Mr. A.Cooper, exostoses have two different seats: by periosteal exostosis, this author means an osseous deposition seated between the external surface of the bone, and the internal surface of the periosteum, and firmly adherent to both ; by medullary exostosis, he signifies a similar forma- tion originating in the medullary membrane, and cancellated structure of a bone. The same expe- rienced surgeon makes two other general divi- sions of exostoses into the cartilaginous and fungous, the first being “ preceded by the forma- tion of cartilage, which forms the nidus for the ossific deposit,” while the second is a tumor softer than cartilage, yet firmer than fungus, in other parts of the body, containing spicula of bone, being of a malignant nature, and depending “ upon a peculiar state of constitution and action of vessels.” It is a disease similar to “ fungus htematodes, but somewhat modified by the structure of the part in which it originates. (Surgical Essays, Part I, ]>• lob.) T.his last form of exostosis is probably the disease treated of in another part of this dictionary, under the title of Osteosarcoma. Exostoses differ very much in respect to size. Those of the cranium are generally small and i circumscribed. Exceptions occur, however, for we learn, that Sir Everard Home removed a very large tumour, which had a bony base, and was situated on the head. (A. Ca per, Surgical . Essays, Part 1, p. 156.) The largest true ex- r ostoses met with are such as are formed upon ■ the long bones. In the history of surgery may ' be found numerous cases of enormous exostoses; , but it is worthy of notice, that these were nearly ill of them of the species termed false, and many L of them were situated in the jaw, the clavicle, or [ -.he extremities of the long bones. Observations | of this kind are abundant in l’Histoiredel’Acad. | Jes Sciences; les Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir.; I khe Sepulchretum Anatomicum ; the writings of I Morgagni, See. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 14, \.t. 219.) I The bones, most frequently affected with ex- i| >stosis, are those of the cranium, the lower jaw, jr ternum, humerus, radius, ulna, bones of the |;arpus, and particularly the femur, and tibia. . here is, however, no bone of the body, which lay not become the, seat of this disease. It is ot uncommon to find all the bones of the cra- ii ium affected with exostosis, and the ossa pa- c etalia sometimes an inch thick. According to Mr. A. Cooper, the exostosis, i hich forms between the outer table of the skull id the pericranium, is of an extremely hard insistence, and generally attended with little fin, while the fungous exostosis, springing from e diploe of the skull, is less firm, and more -iscular. It is described as being of a malig- •tnt nature, making its way through the inner Wile, and occasioning disease of the dura mater, id fatal effects on the brain. 1 ,p. 156.) ' Sometimes, as Boyer remarks, the tumor is rnfined to a small part of the affected bone, mposing a mass superadded to its suiface, and various shapes. Sometimes it rises insensi- (Surgical Essays, bly, having no very distinct limits, and resem- bling a more or less regular portion' of a sphere. In some instances its figure is styloid, and it projects in a greater or less degree. On other occasions, its base is rendered distinct by a pedi- cle, or contraction, which varies in breadth and length in different cases. In particular instances, the exostosis, though limited to the surface of a bone, occupies the whole extent of it. Thus, the whole external surface of one of the bones of the skull has been found occupied by an ex- ostosis, while the cerebral surface of the same bone was in the natural state. The whole cir- cumference of the femur sometimes acquires an enormous size, at the same time that the medul- lary surface of the same bone continues entirely unchanged. These are the periosteal exostoses of Mr. Cooper. In other examples, on the contrary, the two surfaces and the whole thick- ness of the bone are deformed by an augmenta- tion of bulk ; and when this happens in a cylin- drical bone, the medullary cavity is more or less reduced, or even totally obliterated. There are a few extremely uncommon cases, in which the substance of a bone acquires great solidity, and a hardness compared to that of ivory, without any material increase of bulk. An exostosis rarely occupies the whole extent and thickness of a bone; but when this happens in a cylindri- cal bone, the articular surfaces generally remain in their natural state. The structure and consistence of exostoses present great differences. Sometimes, especially when the tumor is not very large, and it is situ- ated on the surface of a cylindrical bone, one may trace with the eye the diverging of the os- seous fibres, in the interspace of which one would say, that there is deposited a new bony substance, the organization of which is less dis- tinct. Sometimes the tumor is entirely cellular, and formed of a few broad laminae, intercepting extensive spaces, which are filled with matter dif- ferent from the medulla, and of various quality. This case is denominated the laminated exostosis. Sometimes the enlarged portion of bone makes a sort of hollow sphere, with thick hard walls, and the cavity of which is filled with fungous granulations more or less extensive and indolent. According to Boyer, this variety of the disease differs essentially from osteosarcoma, notwith- standing external appearances. The case here alluded to, I conclude to be the same as that which Mr. A. Cooper has named the cartilagi- nous exostosis of the medullary membrane. “In this case, the shell of the bone becomes ex- tremely expanded, or rather the original shell is absorbed, and a new one deposited ; and within this ossified cavity, thus produced, a very large mass of cartilage is formed, elastic, firm, and fibrous.” It is not malignant, but often ends in a very extensive disease. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 173.) In other instances, the tumor is perfectly so- lid, exceeding in consistence that of the hardest bones, arid equalling that of ivory. Here, the surface is sometimes smooth, and like that of the bone in its natural state; sometimes irregular, full of little projections, and in some degree sta- lactitical. It is very uncommon to find a large portion of an exostosis converted into a pultace- ous substance; but it is not at all unfrequent ta