464 FRACTURES. “The method of treating the limb, with a view to the prevention of such accidents and symptoms, as pain, inflammation, and laceration of parts, are likely to produce, is different with different practitioners; some using f rom the very first, relaxing, greasy applications; others applying medicines of very different nature. Both these may be right conditionally, that is, accord- ing to different circumstances in the case, hue they cannot be equally so in the same circum- stances. “ When from neglect, from length of time passed without assistance, from misconduct or drunkenness in the patient, from awkwardness and unhandiness in the assistants, or from any other cause, a tension has taken possession of the-limb, and it is become tumid, swollen, and painful, Mr. Pott admits, that a warm cata- plasm is the most proper application that can be made: immediate union is impossible, and every thing which can tend toward relaxing the tense, swollen, and irritable state of the parts concerned, must necessarily be right. But, when the parts are not in this state, the intention seems to be very different. To relax swollen parts, and to appease pain and irritation by such relaxation, is one thing; to prevent inflammatory defluxion and tumefaction, is certainly another; and they ought to be aimed at by very different means. In the former, a large suppuration is a neces- sary circumstance of relief, and the great means of cure ; in the latter it is not, and a very mo- derate degree of it is all that is required. The warm cataplasm therefore, although it be the best application that can be made use of in the one case, is certainly not so proper in the other, as applications of a more discutientkind, such as mixtures of spirit, vini, vinegar and water, with the muriate of ammonia, liquor ammoniae aceta- tae, liquor plumbi acetatis, and medicines of this class, in whatever form the surgeon may choose. By these, in good habits, in fortunately circum- stanced cases, and with the assistance of what should never be neglected, (I mean phlebotomy* and the general antiphlogistic regimen,) inflam- mation may sometimes be kept offj and a cure accomplished, without large collections or dis- charges ofmhtter, or that considerable degree of' suppuration, which, though necessary in some cases, and almost unavoidable in others, are and must be rather promoted and encouraged, than retarded, or prevented, by warm relaxing ap- plications of the poultice kind. *• Compound fractures in general require to be dressed every day; and the wounded parts not admitting the smallest degree of motion without great pain, perfect quietude becomes as necessary as frequent dressing. « The common bandage therefore (the roller) has always in this case been laid aside, and what is called the eighteen-tailed bandage substituted, very judiciously, in its place. “ Splints of proper length, which reach from joint to joint, comprehend them both, and are 'applied on each side of the leg only, are very use. ful both in the simple and in the compound frac. * At present, bleeding is not frequently prac- tised, except on young plethoric persons, and cut of large cities. lure, as they may, thus applied, be made to keep the limb more constantly steady and quiet, than it can be kept without them.” Mr. Pott then enters into the consideration of the posture of the limb, which “ is so principal a circumstance, that without its concurrence every other will be fruitless. The points to be aimed at are, the even position of the broken parts of the bone, and such disposition of the muscles surrounding them, as is most suitable to their wounded, lacerated state, as shall be least likely to irritate them, by keeping them on the stretch, or to produce high inflammation, and at best large suppuration.” According to Mr. Pott, these cases, of all others, require at first the most rigid observance of the antiphlogistic regimen ; pain is to be ap- peased, and rest obtained, by anodynes; inflam- mation is to be prevented or removed, by bleed- ing, and aperient medicines.—And during the first state or stage, the treatment of the limb must be calculated, either for the prevention of inflammatory tumefaction, by discutients; or, such tumor and tension having already taken possession of the limb, warm fomentation, and relaxing and emollient medicines are required. “ If these, according to the particular exi- gence of the case, prove successful, the conse- quence is, either a quiet easy wound, which sup- purates very moderately, and gives little or no trouble ; or a wound, attended at first with con- siderable inflammation, and that producing large suppuration, with great discharge, and trouble- some formation and lodgment of matter. If, on the other hand, our attempts do not succeed, the consequence is gangrene and mortification. “ These are the three general events or ter- minations of a compound fracture, and according to these must the surgeon’s conduct be regu- lated. “ In the first instance, he has indeed nothing to do but to avoid doing mischief, either by his manner of dressing, or by disturbing the limb. Nature, let alone, will accomplish her own pur- pose ; and art has little more to do than to pre- serve the due position of the limb, and to take care, that the dressing applied to the wound proves no impediment. “ In the second stage, that of formation and lodgment of matter, in consequence of large sup- puration, all a surgeon’s judgment will some- times be required in the treatment both of the patient and his injured limb. Enlargement of the present wound, for the more convenient dis- charge of matter* ; new or counter-openings for the same purpose, or for the extraction of frag- ments of broken or exfoliated bone, will very - — c —- • * “ It is a practice with some,from a timidity in using a knife, to make use of bolsters and plaster-compresses for the discharge of lodging- matter. Where another, or a counter-opening can conveniently and safely be made, it is always preferable, the compress sometimes acting diame- trically opposite to the intention with which it is applied, and contributing to the lodgment by con- fining the matter; besides which, it requires a greater degree of pressure to make it efficacious, than a limb in such circumstances generally can bear.”