FEVERS. 443 sinking of the powers of life, anil convert the specific diseases, as arc not readily cured in any existing constitutional symptoms into fever of a situation. different tvpe, or character. But, in all cases of Although hectic fever commonly arises from inflammation, in which any doubt arises, with re- some incurable local disease of a vital part, or of <rard to the farther general detraction of blood, it an extensive disease of a common part, yet it is mav, I believe, be laid down as a general rfile, possible lor it to be an original disease in the that it is safer to employ local, than general blood- constitution, without any local cause whatever, lettirm.” (Lectures on Inflammation, p. I/O.) that we know of. Hectic is a slow mode of dissolution : the HECTIC FEVER. The sympathetic, ox symptom otic fever, already described, is an immediate affection of the con- stitution, in consequence of some local disorder; ' hectic fever is a remote effect. When hectic fever is a consequence of local disease, it has com- monly been preceded by inflammation and sup- puration ; but, there is an inability to produce granulation and cicatrization: and the cure, ot course, cannot be accomplished. The constitution may now be said to be oppressed with a local dis- ease, or irritation, from which it cannot deliver itself. A distinction should be made, between hectic fever, arising entirely from a local complaint in a good constitution, which is only disturbed by too great an irritation, and hectic fever, arising prin- cipally from the badness of the constitution ; which does not dispose the parts to heal. In the first species, it is only necessary to remove the part (if removable), and then all will do well; but, in the second, nothing is gained by a removal of the part, unless the wound, made in the ope- ration, is much less, and more easy put into a local method of cure; by reason of which, the constitution sinks less, under this state and the operation together, than under the former disease. Here the nicest discrimination is requi- site. (Hunter.) Owing to a variety of circumstances, hectic fever comes on at very different periods after the ■nflammation, and commencement of suppura- .ion. Some constitutions, having less powers of resistance, than others, must more easily fall into his state. Hectic fever takes its rise from a variety of •auses, which have been divided into two species, vith regard to diseased parts; viz. parts called /ital, and others not of this nature. Many of he causes of hectic fever, arising from diseases ’ >f the vital parts, would not produce this con- ■ titutional affection, if they were in any other •art of the body; such, for instance, is the forma- ion of tumors, either in, or so as to press upon, vital part, or one, whose functions are im- lediately connected with life. Scirrhi in the tomach, and mesenteric glands; diseased lungs, ver, &c. very soon produce hectic fever. When hectic fever arises from a disease of a art, that is not vital, it commences sooner, or iter, according ns it is in the power of the part > heal, or continue the disease. If the part be ir from the source of the circulation, the fever ill come on sooner, with the same quantity of xisease. When the disease is in parts, which are fit vital, and excites hectic fever, it is generally 1 situations, where so much mischief happens as » afreet the constitution, and where the powers 1 heahng are little. This is the case with dis- isrs ot many of the joints. We must also in- ude parts, which have a tendency to such general symptoms are those of a low, or slow fever, attended with weakness. But, there is rather weak action, than real weakness; for upon the removal of the hectic cause, the action of strength is immediately produced, and every na- tural function is re-established, however much it may have been previously impaired. The particular symptoms are debility; a small, quick, and sharp pulse; the blood forsakes the skin; loss of appetite; frequently, a rejection of all aliment from the stomach; wasting; a great readiness to be thrown into sweats; spontaneous perspirations, when the patient is in bed; pale- coloured, and very copious urine; and often a constitutional purging. Hectic fever has been imputed to the ab- sorption of pus into the circulation ; but, no doubt, much exaggeration has prevailed in the doctrine, which ascribes to this cause manj’ of the bad symptoms, frequently attacking per- sons, who have sores. When suppuration takes place in particular parts, especially vital ones, hectic fever almost constantly arises. It also attends many inflammations, before suppuration has actually happened, as in cases of white swell- ing of the large joints. The same quantity and species of inflammation and suppuration in any of the fleshy parts, especially such as are near the source of the circulation, have in general no such effect. Hence, in the first instances, the fever is only an effect on the system, produced by a local complaint, that has a peculiar pro- perty. The constitution sympathizes more readily with diseases of vital organs, than with those of any other parts; their diseases are also in general more difficult of cure, than the same affections of parts, which are not vital. All diseases of bones, ligaments, and tendons, affect the consti- tution more readily, than those of muscles, skin, cellular membrane, &c. When the disease is in vital parts, and is such as not to kill, by its first constitutional effects, the system then becomes teazed with a complaint, which is disturbing the necessary actions of health. In the large joints, a disease continues to harass the constitution, by attacking parts, which have no power, or rather, no disposition to produce salutary inflammation and suppuration. Thus, the system is also irritated by the existence of an incurable disease. Sucli is the theory of the cause of hectic fever. If the absorption of matter always produced the symptoms,' above described, how could any patient, who has a large sore, possibly escape hectic; for, there is no reason to suppose, that one sore can absorb more readily, than another. If absorbed matter occasioned such violent effects, as have been commonly ascribed to it, why does not venereal matter do the same? ^c °*,e11 know, that absorption is going on, by the pro- gress of buboes. A large one, just on the point