1089 URETHRA. i w more, common bougies must be most advan- tageous, that is to say, when they can be intro- duced through the stricture, so as to cure it on the principle of dilatation. Whether, in certain cases, where no progress can be made with common bougies, it is better to try caustic, or attempt to force the obstruc- tion with a sound, is a question, on which there is a great deal of difference of opinion. “ The practice of pressing firm bougies, or metallic in- struments, so as to force the stricture, or to produce an ulceration of it (says a modern writer), so frequently has been found to form false pass- ages, fistulre, and gangrene, that I need here make no further observation on the practice, or its consequences. Ail the advantages, that can be gained by pressure, tearing through the stric- ture, or producing ulceration of it, may be ob- tained by a careful and judicious use of the cau- stic, which will be found on the whole a safer ap- plication, and will be attended with less inflam- mation and pain.” (Wilson on the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 383.) This gentleman is not, however, an advocate for the caustic in every case. “ I consider it,” says he, “ the safest practice in cases, which will not yield to the introduction of bougies, and which require a portion of the stricture to be destroyed; but, the symptoms, which sometimes attend its use, and the injury which may be done by its improper application, should confine it to those cases.” (p. 385.) I shall conclude this part of the subject of strictures, with inserting some of the general directions given by Sir E. Home how to arm the bougie, and apply the lunar caustic to stric- tures. In arming a bougie, it will be difficult to get a piece of caustic of a proper shape and size for the purpose, unless it be cast in a small cylin- drical mould. “ If these pieces are thicker than the bougie can readily enclose, by putting them in water, the outside quickly dissolves, so as to diminish their size, as much as is required. The piece of caustic, so prepared, is to be cut into small portions, about a quarter of an inch in length, and an orifice being made in the end of a bougie, the caustic is to be inserted into it, and the bougie rolled, so as to be made perfectly smooth, taking care, that the sides of the caustic are every where covered, and only the end ex- posed. “ This was the mode (says Sir Everard), in which I armed bougies, when I first took up this practice; but, it happened, that, in two or three instances, the caustic was left in the urethra; that canal, when in a very irritable state, grasped the bougie, and pulled the caustic out; I was therefore led to consider how such an accident might be prevented, and applied to the makers if bougies for that purpose. Mr. Pass, the late roadie of the Surgeons’ Company, who dealt in Jougips, discovered a very ingenious and effectual mode of securing the caustic. In forming the rougie, a piece of wire, the size of the caustic, s rolled up along with it, passing into the sub- itanee for half an inch; when the bougie is learly finished, the wire is withdrawn, and the caustic inserted in its place; after this, the bou- ;ie is rolled again, so that the sides of the cau- t,c become firmly cemented to the linen, by means of the composition of the bougie, and when cold, cannot be separated by any force. In this way bougies are now generally armed. “ After the bougie has been thus prepared, the distance of the stricture from the external orifice is to be measured, and the canal cleared by passing a common bougie, fully as large as that which is armed. The armed bougie, with the distance marked upon it, is then to be intro- duced, and applied to the stricture; when it is brought in contact with the obstruction, it is to be steadily retained there, with a moderate degree of pressure at first, and less as it is longer con- tinued, since the bougie becomes soft by remain- ing in the urethra, and readily bends, if the press- ure is too great. The time it is to remain de- pends a good deal upon the sensations of the patient, and the length of time the parts have been diseased; but on the first trial, it should be less than a minute, as it then commonly gives greater pain than on any subsequent application. The pain produced by the caustic is not felt so immediately as it would be natural to expect; the first sensation arises from the pressure of the bougie on the stricture; a little afterwards, there is the feeling of heat in the parts; and lastly, that of pain. “ As soon as the caustic begins to act, the surgeon, who makes the application, is made sensible of it by the smaller arteries of the parts beating with unusual violence, which is very distinctly felt by the finger and thumb, that grasp the penis. “ The pain, that is brought on by the caustic, lasts for some time after it is withdrawn; but this period differs in almost every patient, being sometimes extended to half an hour, and some- times only a few minutes. “The kind of pain is heat and soreness, which is not severe, not being accompanied with the pe- culiar irritation, upon so many occasions expe- rienced by patients who have strictures; an irri- tation that cannot be described, which is most insupportable, and is too often brought on by dilating strictures with the bougie.’’ In the vol. from which the above directions are taken, Sir Everard Home recommends the patient to make water, as soon as the armed bougie is withdrawn; but, in a subsequent vol. he explains his change of opinion upon this point: “ I not only have no wish, that the patient should make water imme- diately after the application, but would rather that it be retained some time.” (On Strictures, vol. 3, p 51. 8vo. Land. 1821.) “ It happens not unfrequently,” says Sir Everard Home, “ that at the first time of making water, some blood passes along with it. This is rather favourable; as, when the parts bleed, the stricture usually proves to be so far destroyed, that at the next trial the bougie passes through it. Every other day appears in general to be as often as it is prudent to apply the caustic. I have, however, done it every day, in very obsti- nate cases, where the parts are less sensible, without any detriment.” In his third volume, lately published, he states, that he now rarely passes the bougie oftener than every third day, and never when the pain from the last application has not entirely gone oil. He also never continues any one application beyond the time when the pain begins to extend fuither than 4 a