67 AMPUTATION. followed without amputation. One of his maxims was, that it was better for the member to be taken off by gunshot, than by the surgeon’s knife, as the ball operated on a healthy subject, the knife on a person debilitated by an hospital. (Chir. Wuhrn. Th. 2. S. 493.) In a later valuable essay on this subject, he restricts am- putation to shattered limbs, affected with gan- grene. Iiis mode of operating was that of M. Louis. He sanctioned joint-operations at the hip and shoulder; but condemned those of the knee and elbow, as never answering. (Term. Schrift. Th. 1.5.3.) Soon after the middle of the last century, the practice of amputating at the joints began to excite increased attention ; but, as this is a topic, to which I must presently return, it is unneces- sary now to dwell upon it. The writings of Puthod, Wohler, Brasdor, Barbel, Sabatier, Park, Moreau, and Vermandois, in relation to this subject deserve particular notice. I now come to Mr. Alanson, whose name cuts as great a figure in the history of amputation, as that of any surgeon yet mentioned. His chief objects were to hinder a protrusion of the bone, and promote union by the first intention. He rejected the band, which used formerly to be put round the limb for the guidance of the knife, as altogether useless, and an impediment to the quick performance of the circular incision through the skin. When the tourniquet had been ap- plied, an assistant grasped the integuments with both hands, and drew them and the muscles firmly upwards. The operator then fixed his eye upon the proper part, where he was to begin the incision, which was made with considerable facility and dispatch, the knife passing with greater quickness in consequence of the tense state of the integuments. After the incision through the integuments, the assistant still continued a steady support of the parts, while Mr. Alanson separated the cel- lular and ligamentous attachments with the point of his knife till as much skin had been drawn up, as would with the united assistance of the particular division of the muscles hereafter re- commended, fully cover the whole surface of the wound. Then, instead of applying the knife close to the edge of the integuments, and dividing the muscles in a circular perpendicular manner down to the bone, Mr. Alanson proceeded as follows: when operating upon the thigh, and standing on the outside of the limb, he applied the edge of his knife, under the edge of the sup- ported integuments, upon the inner margin of the vastus internus muscle, and cut obliquely through that and the adjacent muscles, upwards as to the limb, and down to the bone, so as to lay it bare, about three or four finger-breadths higher, than is usually done, by the common perpendicular circular incision. He now drew the knife towards himself, then keeping its point upon the bone, and the edge in the same oblique line already pointed out for the former incision, he divided the rest of the muscles in that di- rection all round the limb; the point of the knife being in contact with, and revolving round, the bone through the whole of the division. According to Mr. Alanson, the speedy execu- tmn o! the above directed incision, will be much expedited, by one assistant continuing a firm and steady elevation of the parts, and another attend- ing to preserve the skin from being wounded, as the knife goes through the muscles, at the under part of the limb. Mr. Alanson censures the old method of depriving the bone of its periosteum to a considerable extent, above and below the part, where the saw was to pass, not only as creating un- necessary delay, but, since the periosteum serves to support the vessels in their passage to the bone, as apt to produce exfoliations, above the part where the bone is to be divided with the sajv. Instead of this practice, he advises first the application 0f the retractor, as advised by Gooch and Brom- field; and then denuding the bone at the part, where the saw is to pass, whereby the bone may be sawn off higher than is usually practised; a material object in preventing a projection of the bone, and forming a small cicatrix. If the flesh of a stump, formed in the thigh, agreeably to the foregoing plan, be gently brought forward after the operation, and the surface of the wound be then viewed, it may be said to resemble in some degree, a conical cavity, the apex of which is the extremity of the bone; and the parts, thus divided, are obviously the best calcu- lated to prevent a sugar-loaf stump. The part, where the bone is to be laid bare, whether two, three, or four finger-breadths higher than the edge of the retracted integuments ; or, in other words, the quantity of muscular sub- stance to be taken out, in making the double in- cision, must be regulated by considering the length of the limb, and the quantity of skin that has been previously saved by dividing the membranous attachments. The quantity of skin saved, and muscular substance taken out, must be in such exact proportion to each other, that the whole surface of the wound will afterwards be easily covered, and the limb not more shortened, than is necessary to obtain this end. After the removal of the limb, Mr. Alanson drew each bleeding artery gently out with the te- naculum, and tied it as nakedly as possible, with a common slender ligature. When the large ves- sels had been tied, the tourniquet was immediate- ly slackened, and the wound well cleaned, in or- der to detect any vessel, that might otherwise have remained concealed with its orifice blocked up with coagulated blood; and before the wound was dressed, its whole surface was examined with the greatest accuracy, by which means Mr. Alari- son frequently observed a pulsation, where no hemorrhage previously appeared, and turned out a small clot of blood from within the orifice of a considerable artery. He urges bestowing parti- cular attention in making every vessel secure which is likely to bleed on the attack of the symptomatic fever; for besides the fatigue and pain, to which such an accident immediately ex- poses the patient, it seriously interrupts the de- sired union of the wound. He used always to clean the whole surface of the wound well with a sponge and warm water, as he thought, that the lodgment of any coagulated blood would be a con- siderable obstruction to a quick union of the parts. The skin and muscles were now gently brought forwards; a flannel roller was put round the body, and carried two or three times rather tightly round the upper part of the thigh, as at this point, it was intended to form what Mr. Alanson called a sufficient basis, which materially added to F 2