« -■ii I i mid hever he seen in the capillaries of a real!;/ [flamed part, much less moving with great ve- eitn. He argues, that the state, alluded to by >r. Thomson, is only that temporary excite- ,ent of the capillaries, generally preceding their sbilitv, which is inseparable from inflammation. See Hastings on Inflammation, $ c.p. 98,101.) Of course, such writers as believe, that the ood in the capillaries is not propelled by these ssels themselves, but by the impulse received mi the heart, cannot assent to the foregoing ew, in which the proximate cause of the in- mnnation is ascribed to debility of those ves- ls. Dr. Parry argues, that the theory, which presents this process as consisting in an in- eased momentum of the blood in the part : fected, is not invalidated, were it even proved, cording to the opinion of Dr. Philip, that the ■locity of the blood in the vessels of an inflamed ,rt is diminished, unless it be also proved, that e velocity is diminished in a greater propor- jn, than the quantity is increased. (Elements ■' Pathology, Vol. 1, p. 84.) As far, however, , I can judge, the arguments are in favour of ■r. Philip's view of the subject; for, with rspect to quantity making up for loss of velo- tv, if the supposition were to be adopted, surely could not be retained after the inflammation has rived at that state, in which the fluid in the ipillaries is seen with the microscope to be tarly or quite stagnant It must be confessed, the same time, that the question about the oximate cause of inflammation is still a topic endless controversy, into which I consider it Meetly absurd to enter any further than n be avoided, without having leisure at present prosecute the inquiry by experiments. In one nse, both Dr. Philips and Dr. Hastings admit, at an increased action of the vessels may exist inflammation; but then this excitement or in- eased action is not in the capillaries, but the rger arteries; and Dr. Philip even suggests, at the presence, or absence of such excitement ay make the difference between acute and chronic Rammation. The considerations in support of e side of the question, to which I do not myself dine, may be found in the writings of Dr. Parry, r. C. H. Parry, and Mr. James of Exeter. From is remark, I would not have it inferred, that I a quite convinced of the propriety of referring e proximate cause of inflammation to debility of e capillaries, though the retarded circulation in em, like their dilatation, is now a fact placed t of all doubt. The points, however, on which should not assent to Dr. Philip’s doctrine, will best understood, when the treatment is eon- lered. In the work of Mr. James may be pe- sed a very good summary of Bichat’s doctrine, nch I would willingly annex, if the sulject re intelligible, without an explanation of some ysiological opinions, for which 1 have not room this edition. (See J. H. James, Ohs. on some INFLAMMATION. '703 receiving red blood. “ I froze (says Mr. Hunter) the ear of a rabbit, and thawed it again; this oc- casioned a considerable inflammation, an in- creased heat, and thickening of the part. This rabbit was killed when the ear was in the height of inflammation, and the head being injected, the two ears were removed and dried. The unin- flamed ear dried clear, and transparent, the vessels were distinctly seen ramifying through its sub- stance; but, the inflamed ear dried thicker and more opaque, and its arteries were considerably larger. Many have supposed, that the redness of com- mon inflammation is partly occasioned by the generation of new vessels. This doctrine, how- ever, seems very questionable. When coagu- lated lymph is extravasated upon the surface of a wound, or an inflamed membrane, unquestion- ably it often becomes vascular, in other Words, furnished with new vessels. But, in the extra- vasated lymph of a phlegmonous tumor, we have no evidence, that there is any formation of new vessels. Were the lymph to be rendered organ- ized and vascular, the swelling and redness would probably be more permanent, and at least not admit so easily of resolution. When adhesions form between two inflamed surfaces, the organ- ized substance forming the connexion, lives after the subsidence of the inflammation, and is a per- manent effect. In the experiments detailed by Dr. Hastings, when the inflammation began and terminated, without any lesion of the part affected, new vessels were never formed. {On Inflam- mation, SfC. p. 93.) At the same time, it must be confessed, that great obscurity prevails in this very difficult part of the subject; for when suppuration happens in a phlegmonous tumor, the cavity is lined by a kind of cyst, or membra- nous layer of lymph, which is unquestionably furnished both with secreting vessels, and absor- bents; for-, otherwise, how could the continued secretion of pus, or its occasional sudden dis- appearance, be at all explicable. It was probablv, the enlargement of the small vessels, and the circumstance of their being filled with red blood, that led to the theory of new vessels being usu- ally formed in inflammation. It has, however, been justly observed, that the supposition easily admits of refutation ; for heat, and many other causes of inflammation, operate so quickly, that there can be no time for the formation of any new vessels; and, yet the redness is as great, and the inflammation as perfect in a minute as in an hour or a day after the application of the ex- citing cause. (Burns.) Mr. Hunter, it is well known, believed, that a coagulum or a layer of lymph might produce vessels within itself.— {On the Blood, p 92, t)r.) Others, however, distrust this hypothesis, and incline to the opinion, which refers the derivation of vessels for the organization of deposits to parent branches. (Travers, Synopsis of Diseases of the Bye, the general Principles, Sfc. o) Inflammation, p. 1 13.) The latter sentiment is corroborated 38, 8vo. Load. 1821.) by the appearances noticed by Dr. Hastings, in • nedness.—This is manifestly owing to the in- his experiments, who describes the small vessels ’ased quantity of blood in the inflamed part, first seen in the lymph, upon the surface of a ore blood must necessarily be contained there, wound, as even then communicating with the cause the vessels, whicii previously conveyed inflamed capillaries. (On Inflammation, p. 94.) IS fluid, are preternaturally distended, and the Another reason assigned for the redness of in- 1a vessels, which naturally contained only flammation, is that the blood after it has be- mP’> are now so enlarged as to be capable of come venous, retains, more or less, its bright