FRACTURES. (r*. 17.) AU fractures of the fibula, however, are not caused in the preceding manner; and Du- puytren concurs with Boyer, Mr. C. Bell, and all the best writers on this subject, in dividing these cases into two kinds; first, those in which the force is applied directly to the bone itself; se- condly, the more important and serious cases, in which the force operates upon the fibula, through the medium of the foot. With respect to the first class of cases, the situation of the fibula on the outer side of the leg, a situation which would seem to expose it much to external violence ; its slenderness; the interspace left be- tween it and the tibia at the middle part of the leg; and the way in which each end of iUrests upon the latter bone; would lead one to expect that its middle portion must often be broken; yet the case is less frequent than might be ap- prehended. And, as JDupuytren observes, there are two reasons for this fact; viz. the protection which the fibula receives from the peronsei muscles, and the rarity of circumstances capa- ble of producing a fracture by a direct cause. These fractures, which are usually attended with deformity, and, in some cases, even do not hinder the patient from bearing upon the foot, cannot for the most part be ascertained, unless attention be paid to the manner in which the accident was produced, and to the presence of ecchymosis, and of more or less pain in the part which has been struck, or pressed upon ; together with a degree of irregularity of the fibula, perceptible by the fingers, and a more or less distinct moveableness and crepitus of the ends of the fracture. The usual causes of this sort of fracture are blows on the fibula, gun-shot wounds, the fall of heavy bodies on the outside of the leg, or the passage of them over the same part. The foot is generally twisted, neither inwards nor out- wards, and, in most instances, the accident is easily cured by means of rest, without being ac- companied by any of the symptoms so often complicating other fractures of the fibula, pro- duced by distortion of the foot. (Dupuytren, Vol. cit. p. 40.) A striking analogy may be re- marked between fractures of the central part of the fibula and those of the corresponding portion of the ulna, and this in respect to causes, sym- ptoms, treatment, and consequences. Fractures of the middle of the ulna, like those of the body of the fibula, are always occasioned by blows or falls on the fractured part, or by violence applied directly to the bone. Such fractures are scarcely ever attended with any deformity in the limb, incapacity of moving it, or displacement of the fragments; and just as some individuals are able to walk with a broken fibula, others, notwith- standing a fracture of the ulna, are found capable of using their fore-arm nearly as well as if it were free from injury. The latter case, like that of a fracture of the fibula, can only be known by the recollection of the way in which the hurt was received, the pain, ecchymosis, irregularities, motion, and crepitus, which last effects are also not very obvious so high up the bone. Like fractures of the body of the fibula, those of the body of the ulna only require rest and discutient applications, and very seldom the bandages, &c. necessary in the treatment of fractures of both bones of the fore-arrn, or of those of the radius alone. ( Vol. cit, p, 50.) Fractures of the fibula from ari indirect*:ause may happen from the foot being violently twisted either inwards, or outwards. Iri both instances, the cause of the fracture is a change in the di- rection of the line, in which the weight of the body is transmitted. In the first case, the said line, instead of following, as it commonly does, the axis of the tibia, and falling upon tiie astra- galus, crosses the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle joint, obliquely from within outwards, and after passing across the malleolus externus, ex- tends to the outside of the member. The parts then supporting the weight of the body are the malleolus externus, and the lower end of the tibia, besides which state of parts, the same malleolus is subjected to the traction of the external lateral ligaments, which operate with great force, in consequence of those ligaments being now nearly as a right angle with the lower end of the fibula, while this process itself is in contact with the astragalus, which is propelled from within out- wards by the tibia. The latter bone, being thicker and stronger, than the fibula, generally resists, and, if the malleolus internus sometimes happens to break, it is secondarily, as an effect of the displacement of the foot outwards. In the other example, where the foot is twisted outwards, the centre of gravity of the body, in- stead of following its usual course, obliquely crosses the lower end of the fibula, the ankle- joint, and the malleolus internus, and falls on the ground at a greater or lesser distance from the inner edge of the foot. On the one side, the in- ternal lateral ligaments and malleolus, and on the other, the lower end of the fibula, are then the parts which have to bear the weight of the whole body, and the force of the muscles; and they are also the parts, which are torn and fractured; first, the internal lateral ligaments, or the maileolus ; and secondly, the lower portion of the fibula. (Annuaiie, Mori. Clcir. tie Pans, ISIS, p. 66, 67.) Some of the symptoms of a fracture of the fibula, from an indirect cause, depend upon the fracture of that bone, and others upon the dislocation of the foot. They are divided by Dupuytren into two kinds; viz. prenimpute, and characteristic. The first are, the way in which the patient received his hurt; a noise, or sort of crack heard by him at the instant of the in- jury ; a fixed pain at the lower part of the fibula ; a difficult}7, or inability of talking; more or less swelling round the ankle, especially about the malleolus externus, and lower portion of the fibula. The characteristic symptoms are, an ir- regularity and unnatural moveableness of some point of the lower end of the fibula ; a crepitus, which can be more or less distinctly felt by press- ing upon and moving the part; mobility of the whole foot transversely, or horizontally; a facility of bringing the lower end of the fibula towards the tibia by pressure; a change in the point of incidence of the axis of the limb upon the foot; distortion of the foot outwards, and sometimes backwards; rotation of the same part upon its axis from within outwards; an angular depres- sion, more or less manifest at the outer and lower part of the leg ; projection of the internal malleolus; disappearance of almost all these symptoms, as soon as reduction is effected by a force applied to the foot; and their immediate recurrence when such force is discontinued, par-