SUL 938 STR by - Scarpa. Dr. Vetch also disapproves of Jetting out the aqueous humour in cases of sta- phyloma as an endless operation, from which no permanent effect takes place, the humour col- lecting again in a few hours; a sentiment which is likewise expressed by Mr. Travers. (See Vetch on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 6*3; and B. Travers, Synopsis, §c. p. 286.) For the pur- pose of accomplishing the gradual diminution of the tumor, and bringing the eye into a stutc ■in which an. artificial pupil may be made, Dr. Vetch has employed caustic (the method com- mended both by Richter and Beer) and the in- troduction of a seton through the tumor. Beer confirms the statement of Scarpa, concerning the impossibility of restoring the transparency of any part of the cornea affected with staphy- loma. For the relief of a partial staphyloma, he prefers the cautious application of the oxy- genated muriate of antimony, by means of the point of a camel-hair brush, while the eyelids are held asunder. The diseased part of the cornea is to be smeared with it until a small white su- perficial slough is formed, when every particle of the caustic must be immediately washed out of the eye with another larger camel-hair brush, dipped in water or milk. The application is not to be repeated, until the subsequent inflam- mation has quite subsided, and the slough been thrown off. Beer condemns all escharotic salves, because their action extends to parts, which should be left unirritated. (Lchrc von den AugenJcr. B. 2, p. 74.) Wenzel, and numerous other writers, imply by staphyloma, a protrusion of a piece of the iris, through a wound or ulcer of the eye. (See Iris, Prolapsus of.) R. Fr. B. Hoclder, De Staphylomate, Tu- bingcE, 174S. Scarpa Suite Malattie Degli Occld, Ed. 5. G. J. Beer’s Ansicht der Sta- phylomatosen Metamorphoscn dcs Augcs, <f}r. Wien, 1805. Nachtrug zur Ansicht, <|-c. 1806; and Lchrc von den Augcnkr. B. 2, p. 69, 8vo. Wien. 1817- Richter, Anfavgs- grLinde der Wundarzncykunst, B. 2, p. 153, ■$c. Golf. 1795. Sabatier, Medccine Opcra- ioire, T. 2, p, 191, Ed. 2, 1S!0. James Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy -of the Human Eye, Vol. 1, p, by, Svo, Exlinb. 1808. B. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases if the Eve, Svo. Load. 1820. J. Vetch, A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, Svo. Loud. 1821. STEATOMA. (from c-lsag, fat.) A wen, or encysted tumor, containing fat. See Tu- mors, Encysted. STELLA, or STELLATED BANDAGE. A bandage so named because it makes a cross, or star, on the back. It is a roller, applied in the manner of a figure 8, so as to keep back the shoulders. It is often employed in cases of fractures and dislocations of the clavicle. STRAMONIUM. A series of interesting ex- periments were detailed in illustration of the pro- perties of stramonium, in aDisscrtation, which was read to the Medical Faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, on the 12th of May, 1 <97, by Dr. Samuel Cooper. The experiments, No. * r- 1 i r* «nrl!/iiilor nnfinn in tliis narcotics in dilating the pupil. A drop of an infusion of the powder of stramonium was let lall into the left eye. In half an hour, the pupil began to enlarge, and attained its greatest di- mensions about twelve hours after the experi- ment, at which time it was viewed in a consi- derable light, and seemed thrice as large as the other. It continued dilated two days. In a strong light, objects were seen more distinctly with the right eye; but, in a weak light, with the left. Some other gentlemen, however, on whom the experiment was tried, experienced no in- creased power of seeing in the dark. A drop of the expressed juice, dropped into the eye of a cat, soon converted the whole of the coloured part of the eye into pupil. (See Caldwell's Me- dical Llicses, p. 173, Svo. Philadelphia, 1805.) Stramonium, then, resembles belladonna and liyosciamus in its action upon the iris. It has been exhibited internally, in epilepsy, tic dou- leureux, and severe chronic pains, and used in poultices for dispersing indurations of the breast, and in ointments for allaying the pain of piles. The doses should at first be onlv er. ss. of the «. O extract twice a day, but they may be gradually increased to five grains. STRICTURE, (from stringo, to bind.) A diminution, or contracted state of some tube, or duct in the body. See Urethra, Strictures of; (Esophagus, ffc. Rectum, Stricture also means, in cases of strangulated hernia, the narrowest part of the opening, or passage through which the bowels protrude, which nar- rowest part makes on the viscera the pressure causing all the bad symptoms. See Hernia. STRUMA, (from struo, to heap up.) Scro- fula, or Scrophula. The King’s Evil. See Scrophula. STYE. A little inflammatory’ tumor on the eyelid. See Hordeolum. SULPHURIC ACID. The strong sul- phuric acid is not much used in the practice of surgery, except as a means of extricating from the nitrate of potash, or muriate of soda, certain gases for the purpose of purifying the air of sick rooms, or infected places. A few practitioners have also sometimes employed it, blended with sixteen Limes its weight of lard, as a local appli- cation for the cure of scabies. As a caustic, it is not generally eligible, because it is diflicult to limit its operation exactly to the parts, which arc intended to be destroyed. A few years ago, a proposal was made to apply this acid along the outside of the eyelid, in cases of trichiasis, so as to produce a slough, and subsequent ulcer, the cicatrization of which draws out the inverted tursus. Nay, it is alleged that the application sometimes produces an instantaneous amendment of the position of the eyelid. I have seen one example, in which the experiment was tried; but, whether it was owing to the acid not having been sufficiently applied, or other causes, the method did not answer so well as the usual plan of removing a part of the integuments with a cutting instrument Diluted sulphuric acid is frequently employed as an ingredient in gargles. It is also com- monly exhibited with a view of checking passive linmnrrha.i’cs. and orofuse nocturnal sweats M