AMPUTATION. 79 the stump perpendicular, the difficulty of cover- ing the end of the bone sometimes arises from not duly relaxing the posterior muscles of the tliierb, and therefore he condemns laying the stump on pillows, which are too high. (A C. Hu tcninson, Prnct Obs. p. 41.) The plan of bringing the edges of the wound together, after amputation, so that they may unite by the first intention, has received, for many years past, the universal approbation of British surgeons. It is the general practice in the treatment of all incised wounds. It may be said to be the pride of English surgery ; for, in nothing does she display more convincingly her superiority. Baron Larrey, however, in cases of amputation disapproves of the attempt to unite the wound by the first intention, and merely brings forwards its edges somewhat towards each other with a piece of linen, which covers the whole of the wound, and has small holes cut in it for the passage of the discharge. (Mem. de Chir. ]\hL. T. 3, p. 379.) This piece of linen is supported with a moderately tight roller. M. Roux, on his arrival in this country, wondered to see British surgeons so prejudiced in favour of union by the first intention, as to adopt it after all amputations. “ C'est pareille- ■menl abuser de la reunion immediate que de iuppliqutrr en tuuie ciramstunce a la pluie qui resiilte de Pimputation des membres. J'entends parler de l’amputation duns la continuite des mem- bres et p'us parlieulierement encore de Vamputa- twn circulaire” (P. 128. Purullele de la Chimirgie Anglaise uvec lu Chirurgie Fravgaise, 8Co. Paris, 1815.) M. Roux, however, has curiously omitted to explain in his book, what are the advantages of not bringing the edges of the wound together, and why he calls prejudice the partiality to a method, the superior efficacy of which is continually demonstrated in every hospital of London. He does not indeed pre- sume to condemn the practice altogether; on the contrary, he allows it to be proper in certain cases; yet, he contends that it ought to be con- fined within particular limits. (P. 130. See, also, Man. el Obs. sur la lleunion immediate de ;a Piute tipies l’Amputation, dfc. 8on. Paris, 1814.) In this tract, which is well drawn up, Roux proves most convincingly the benefits of union by the first intention, after amputation of the thigh by the circular incision; but, strangely enough, his prejudices hinder him from advising the practice to be extended to other amputation^, lie does not positively condemn it in the arm, though he thinks the method less necessary, be- cause amputation there is less dangerous than in the thigh, &c. (P. 45.) To such futile reason- ing is this author reduced by the unsoundness of his doctrine. He also deems the attempt at union by the first intention counterindicated, where limbs are amputated for injuries, which violently contuse and crush the parts (P. 48,) and where the limb is much wasted. (P, 50.) In the latter condition, however, he thinks De- sault's flap amputation may be done, and an eflort made to heal the wound bv adhesion. In one case, h« djd this with success (P. 51.) Richerand informs us, that Dubois at Faris follows the plan with a success equal to that of , e I^oudon surgeons. For some years past, he nas himself also constantly endeavoured to accom- plish union by the first intention, after all the am- putations which he has had occasion to practise, and he succeeds at least in three out of four. “The method is preferable (says he) to the old one, in whatever point of view it is considered. This union is more expeditious, a few days being suf- ficient for its completion. A woman, whose thigh I took off in 1810, was very well in a week, &e. Besides the advantage of a quick cure, and such quickness is especially of great importance, where the patient has been much re- duced, so that he would hardly be able to bear a long suppuration, union by the first intention has the recommendation of saving the patient from a great deal of pain, the flap of integuments, with which the bleeding surface of the stump is co- vered, being much less irritating to the flesh, than the softest charpie would be, &c. Three years have elapsed since the publication of the third edition of this book. During this in- terval, I have performed more than a hundred and fifty amputations, and the utility of imme- diate union has been more and more proved to me.” (Nosogruphie Chiring, p. 475. 477, edit. 4.) But, notwithstanding these and other en- comiums on the practice, Richerand, like other French surgeons, is not an advocate for it in certain cases, as, for instance, limbs shattered by' gunshot-wounds, or affected with hospital gan- grene. Here, he maintains, that it hardly ever succeeds. (P. 478.) But, though it be true that amputations after gunshot-wounds do not ge- nerally heal so well, as man}' other cases, it can- not be denied that they do sometimes unite more or less by the first intention, and why should not the chance he taken? It is productive of no danger; there is nothing better to be tried; and, if it fail, what is the harm? Why, the wound will then heal by suppuration, and the granu- lating process, just as soon, as if the hollow of the stump had been filled with charpie, or left open ; it will in fact heal in a way, which is less advantageous, than union by the first intention, but which is the best which can now happen. From what has been said, it appears, that the practice of healing the wound by' the first inten- tion after amputation is less general in France, than it is in England; a circumstance which may perhaps be explained by the fact of its being much newer to the French, than to us. Every improvement must encounter for a time the opposition of prejudice; but, one so important as that which we are considering, must at length prevail and meet with universal adoption. Our extraordinary partiality to union by the first in- tention arises from a conviction of its superior efficacy, and is a decisive proof of the goodness of English surgery in respect to wounds. The observations of Roux arid Richerand tend to prove, that they are not altogether unaware of its advantages, and they therefore recommend it for certain cases ; but, their backwardness to ex- tend it to all amputations, without exception, is little in favour of the parallel, which they are so fond of advancing between French and English surgery. However, that stumps may fall into a state, in which the pressure of all plasters and bandages whatever should be most carefully avoided, and emollient poultices used, is a truth of which every