735 JOINTS. 1 bones, 1 never until lately saw the head of a bone enlarged, in consequence of the disease known by die name of white-swelling. I was formerly much in the habit of inspecting the state of the numerous diseased joints, which were everv vear amputated at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and though I was long attentive to this point, my searches after a really enlarged • scrophulous bone always proved in vain. Nor was there at that period any specimen of an expanded head of a scrophulous bone in Mr. 'Abernethv’s museum. Within the last few years, however, a specimen of an enlargement of the upper head of the ulna has been found, ’.and it was some time ago shewn to me by Mr. 'Stanley. My friend, Mr. Langstaff, is said to have in his possession a knee-joint, in which . the femur and tibia are much expanded, “ the e external laminae of the bones not being thicker, than when the bones are of their natural size, and the canccUi healthy, though of rather -greater solidity, than natural. (Lloyd on Scro- phula, p. 148.) However, this last form of disease evidently does not resemble the com- mon scrophulous affection of the heads of the bones. I may add, that Mr. Wilson, whose dissections have been very numerous, concurs with the best modern writers, concerning the rarity of an actual expansion of the substance of the heads of the bones. {.On the Skeleton, Sj;c. p. 336.) I have also heard of a few other in- stances, in which the heads of the bones were actually enlarged in cases of white-swelling. 1 However, I believe the occurrence is far from being usual, and doubts may yet be entertained, whether such enlargement is combined with the following alteration of structure. The change, which the head of the tibia undergoes in many s cases, is first a partial absorption of the phosphate af lime throughout its texture, while at first a transparent fluid, and .afterwards a yellow cheesy substance, are deposited in the cancelli. In a more advanced stage, and, indeed, in that stage, which most frequently takes place before a joint s amputated, the head of the bone has deep ex- cavations in consequence of caries, and its struc- ture is now so softened, that when an instrument is pushed against the carious part, it easily pene- trates deeply into the bone. Occasionally, as my friend Mr. Lloyd has observed, all the bones of a loint are affected in this way; but, frequently only one of them. (On Serophula, p. 120.) According to a modern writer, “ The morbid 1 i iflection appears to have its origin in the bones, which become preternaturally vascular, and con- ain a less than usual quantity of earthy matter, * while, at first, a transparent fluid, and afterwards i yellow cheesy substance, is deposited in their can- celli. From the diseased bone, vessels, carrying 'ed blood, shoot into the cartilage, which after- • vards ulcerates in spots, the ulceration begin- ' ling on that surface, which is connected to the * ’°ne. As the caries of the bones advances, pus s collected in the joint. At last, the abscess bursts 'externally, having formed numerous and cir- uitous sinuses.” (Brodicgin Med. Chir. Trans. 1 v°l- 4, p. 272, and Pathol. Ohs. p. 227.) The hove described alteration of the structure of the I‘ones, this author has never seen in the cranium, tor in the middle of the cylindrical bones; but, t is asserted by another late writer, that the ti cheesy matter sometimes pervades the can celli of the whole bone, and is deposited in innum era- ble portions of the most minute size. (E. A. Lloyd, on Serophula, p. 12.\) Also, with re- spect to the increased vascularity of the dis- eased part of the bone, although Mr. Lloyd assents to the truth of this statement, as applied to the early stage of the disorder, he represents the vascularity as afterwards being diminished, in proportion as the quantity of cheeselike deposit increases. (Vol. cit. p. 122, 123.) A cursory examination of a diseased joint, even when it is cut open, will not suffice to shew, that the heads of the bones have not acquired an increase of size. In making a dissection of this kind, in the presence of a medical friend, I found that, even after the joint had been opened, the swelling had every appearance of arising from an actual expansion of the bones. The gentleman with me felt the ends of the bones after the in- teguments had been removed, and he coincided with me, that the feel, which was even now com- municated, seemed to be caused by a swelling of the bones themselves. But, on cleaning them the enlargement was demonstrated to arise en- tirely from a thickening of the soft parts. So unusual, indeed, is the expansion of the heads of the bones, that the late Mr. Crowther, who paid great attention to these cases, joined Mr. Rus- sel in believing, that such a change never hap- pened: a conclusion not entirely correct. (See Practical Ohs. on White-Swelling, fyc. Edit. 2 ,p 14, 1808.) Mr. Russel has particularly noticed how much the soft parts frequently contribute to the swell- ing. He describes the appearances on dissection thus : “The great mass of the swelling appears to arise from an affection of the parts, exterior to the cavity of the joint, and which, besides an en- largement in size, seem also to have undergone a material change in structure. There is a larger, than natural, proportion of a viscid fluid, inter- mixed with the cellular substance.; and the cellular- substance itself has become thicker, softer, and of a less firm consistence, than in a state of health.” (On the Morbid Affections of the Knee, p. 30.) The manner, in which the soft parts are affected, is also described by Mr. Brodie: “ Inflamma- tion takes place of the cellular membrane, ex- ternal to the joint. Serum, and afterwards coagu- lable lymph, are effused, and hence arises a puffy elastic swelling in the early, and an oedematous swelling in the advanced stage of the disease. “ Serophula attacks only those bones, or por- tions of bones, which have a spongy texture, as the extremities of the cylindrical bones, and the bones of the carpus and tarsus; and hence, the joints become affected from their contiguity to the parts, which are the original seat of the dis- ease.” (See Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 273.) In the cavity of thejoint, we sometimes find a quantity of curdy matter, and the cartilages ab- sorbed in various places, but more particularly round the edges of the articular surfaces. As the name of the disease implies, the skin is not at all altered in colour.- According to Mr. Lloyd, the first decided symptom of disease going on in the articulating extremity of n bone, is an occasional deep-seated, dull, heavy pain, unat- tended by swelling, and not increased by motion;