HYDROCELE. (Hi 5 advantage which he expected. 1 he place where this puncture ought to be made, is a circumstance of much more real consequence; the success ot the attempt, the ease, and even sometimes the safety of the patient, depending upon it_ u '411 the anterior and lateral parts of the va- ginal coat are loose and detached from the albu- Trinea; in its pbsterior and superior part, these two tunics make one; consequently the testicle is, as it were, affixed to yie posterior and superior part of the cavity of the sac of an hydrocele ; and consequently, the water or fluid can never irct quite round it. 1 his being the state of the case, the operation ought always to be performed on that part of the tumor, where the two coats are at the greatest distance from each other, and where the fluid must therefore be accumulated in the largest quantity; and never on that part of it where the fluid cannot possibly be. The con- sequence of acting otherwise, must not only pro- duce a disappointment, by not reaching the said fluid; but may prove, and has proved, highly and even fatally mischievous to the patient. 11 After performing this ^operation, present practitioners content themselves with a bit of lint, and a plaster; and if the scrotum has been considerably distended, they suspend it in a bag truss; and give the patient no farther trouble. “ In most people, (continues Pott) the orihee thus made heals in a few hours, (like that made for blood-letting;) but in some habits and cir- cumstances, it inflames and festers ; this fester- ing is generally superficial only, and is soon quieted by any simple dressing ; but it some- times is so considerable, and extends so deep, as : to affect the vaginal coat, and.by accident pro- duce a radical cure. Mr. Pott has also seen it : prove still more troublesome, and even fatal: : but then the circumstances both of the patient, and of the case, have been particular. “ Wiseman and others have advised deferring the puncture, till a pint of fluid has collected. ' When there is a sufficient quantity, however, to keep the testicle from the instrument, there can be no reason for deferring the discharge; and the single point on which this argument ought to rest, is this: Whether the absorbent vessels, by which the extravasation should be prevented, are more likely to reassume their office, while the vaginal coat is thin, and has suffered but little violence from distention; or after it lias been stretched and distended to ten or perhaps twenty times its natural capacity; and by such distention is (like all other membranes) become thick, hard, and tough ? Mr. Pott thinks the probability so much more on the side of the for- mer, that he should never hesitate a moment about letting out the water, as soon as he found, that the puncture could be made securely. And from what has happened within the small circle oi his own experience, he is inclined to believe, •bat if it was performed more early than it ge- nerally is, it might sometimes prevent the return of the disease.” The foregoing passage deserves to be parti- cularly recollected, because it evidently implies a belief by Mr. Pott himself, that, under certain circumstances, a radical cure may be effected, though the cavity of the tunica vaginalis be not obliterated; an opinion since promulgated, as l have.already said, by Mr. Ramsden, Mr. Wadd, and Mr. Kinder Wood. Indeed, it appears probable, that generally when a hydrocele is per- manently cured, by means of such external ap- plications, as do not excite inflammation, hut operate by quickening the action of the absor- bent vessels, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is not destroyed ; and there can be but little doubt of the same thing, whenever what is termed a spontaneous cure happens, as it sometimes does in young subjects. Put, unless the fact were demonstrated by dissection, I should not believe, that the cavity is not annihilated, after the com- pletion of a radical cure by any of the methods, caculated to excite inflammation of the tunica vaginalis and tunica albuginea. The palliative cure should in general be per- formed at least once on those, who determine to undergo a radical one, as it gives an opportunity of examining the state of the testis, and-also of permitting the cavity to be filled again only to such a size, as may be thought to be best calcu- lated to insure success in any future operation. (Sir J. Earle on Hydrocele, p. 13, cd. 2.) Upon the subject of performing the operation of tapping hydroceles, Professor Scarpa gives us some useful cautions. The analogy, which ex- ists between large scrotal hernia; and hydroceles of considerable size, led this writer to suspect, that, in the latter disease, the displacement and separation of the vessels of the spermatic cord from each other might also happen. Careful investigations, made upon the dead subject, fully justified the conjecture. In all considerable hy- droceles, lie found the spermatic vessels so dis- placed and separated, that the artery and vas de- ferens were ordinarily situated on one side of the tumor, and the veins on the other. Sometimes these vessels all extended over the lateral parts of the tumor, as far as its anterior surface, prin- cipally towards the bottom. It is well known, that, in many instances, the operation of puncturing a hydrocele has been fol- lowed by a large extravasation o’f blood within the tunica vaginalis; but, Scarpa informs us, that until lately, he was unacquainted with any case of this kind, which was well detailed and authentic enough, to be cited as an example of injury of the spermatic artery in the puncture of a hydrocele. This learned Professor, however, has had such a fact recently communicated to him by Gasparoli, a distinguished surgeon of Pal- lanza, who, in introducing the trocar into the lower part of the swelling, had the misfortune to injure the spermatic artery, and the patient was afterwards castrated. The wound of this vessel was most clearly proved by the particulars of the case, as detailed in Scarpa’s work, to which I must refer the render. “ From the accurate knowledge, (says Scarpa) which we now have upon this pathological point, such ari accident may be. avoided, by observing the rules, which are elsewhere given for opening the sac of a very large scrotal hernia. In this last operation, as well as that of puncturing an old and voluminous hydrocele, care must he taken to introduce the instrument at a consider- able distance from the bottom of the tumor, that is to say, a little below its middle part, and on a line, which would divide the swelling longitudi- nally into two perfectly equal parts. Experience