AMPUTATION. 95 toid muscle, as high up as where the pectoralis goes over the axilla, to its insertion into the hu- merus. Cutting through the integuments and muscles,he continued his incision obliquely down- wards, and outwards, as far as a little below the termination of the deltoid muscle. Then car- rying on the incision transversely for a small space in a semicircular direction, the wound was next extended to the external part of the arm, as high up as the fold of the integuments in the iixilla! The flap, thus shaped, when raised from the humerus, was intended to fill up the axilla, after the removal of the limb. Bromfield’s next incision began at the acromion, and, being carried through the skin and deltoid down to the bone, terminated in the semicircular incision above de- scribed, and it was so guided, that it left the outer portion of the divided flap larger than the inner one. Bromfield then passed his knife under the lower edge of the internal half-flap, and dis- sected it up as high as possible. The tendon of the pectoral muscle was thus exposed, under which he now passed his left forefinger, which served as a conductor to a probe-pointed curved bistoury. With this, he now divided the attachment of that muscle to the humerus. If the vessels were not now sufficiently brought into view, he cut through the outer head of the biceps, and tied them (artery and vein) each with two strong ligatures about half an inch apart. The vessels were then cut through in the interspace, and the nerve was di- vided much higher, than the artery. The exter- nal flap was now raised sufficiently to expose the joint; and the muscles and capsular ligament having been cut through in the superior and lateral parts, the humerus slipped out of the glenoid cavity immediately the arm was carried a little backward. Lastly, the ligatures and vessels being held out of the way, the soft parts towards the axilla were divided in a semicircular direction. (C/iir. Obs. and Cases, vol. 1. p. 249—252. 8io. London, 1773.) The unnecessary tediousness, and, I may odd, severity of Bromfield’s method, have long withdrawn from it the approbation of modern operators. The division of the flap into two portions; its extraordinary length ; and the painful dissection practised to get at the artery; were serious faults in the operation. In 1774, Alanson amputated at the shoulder- joint, as follows : the subclavian artery was com- pressed by the fingers of an assistant. An in- cision was made about a hand’s breadth below the acromion, and carried through the integuments all round the limb. The deltoid and posterior muscles were then obliquely divided up to the capsular ligament. The tendon of the biceps, and the capsular ligament upon the anterior and posterior part of the joint, were now cut through. One of the circumflex arteries, which bled a good deal, was next tied. The great pectoral muscle, the rest of the capsule, and all the other parts, except the vessels and nerves, were then divided, but previously to cutting the vessels, a temporary ligature was put round them. Thus the se- paration of the limb was completed. The mouths tpf flie vessels were drawn out, and tied, and the temporary ligature taken away. Lastly, the sides of the wound were brought together, so as to make a transverse line. Graefe, seeming not to recollect that amputation by the circular incision directed obliquely upwards, had been practised by Alanson, mentions it as a now proposition. In one case, after operating in this manner, his pa- tient was quitevwell in three weeks; and, with the particular sort of knife which he uses, and which is broadest towards its point, he pretends to be able to make the oblique incision through the muscles all round the limb with one sweep. Of course, he is very careful to make pressure on the artery, both with Mohrenheim’s compressor applied under the clavicle, and the fingers of an assistant above it. (See Normen fur die Aid. gvosserer Gliedm,p. 110, r.) In proof of the possibility of making the oblique incision quite evenly with one stroke of his particular knife, he injected a female subject, did the operation, and caused the stump to be drawn from nature. (See Plate 2. of his Work.) In 1760, P. H. Dahl published at Gottingen a Latin dissertation on amputation at the shoulder. In this tract a tourniquet was proposed, the pad of which was calculated to press upon the sub- clavian artery under the clavicle, and enabled the operator to dispense with tying the vessels in the first instance. Camper had observed, that if the scapula were pushed backward, and the axillary artery pressed with the finger between the clavicle, coracoid process, and great pectoral muscle, the pulse at the wrist might be instantly stopped. Dahl’s tourniquet was obviously constructed, in consequence of what Camper had observed. It is made of a curved, elastic plate of steel, to the shortest end of which a pad is attached, capable of projecting further by means of a screw. The instrument embraces the shoulder from behind forward, while the pad presses on the hollow under the clavicle, between the mar- gins of the deltoid and pectoral muscles. The long extremity of the steel plate, which descends behind the shoulder, is fixed to the body by a sort of belt. The pad is depressed, until the pulsation of the axillary artery is stopped. Further experiments have proved, however, that this tourniquet may be dispensed with, and the flowr of blood in the axillary artery com- manded, by properly compressing this vessel with a pad, or even the fingers alone, as some ope- rators prefer, at the place where it emerges from between the scaleni muscles, above the middle part of the clavicle. Thus the artery is pressed between the pad or fingers and the first rib, across which it runs. In some plans of operation, hereafter to be described, all compression of the artery, either above or below the clavicle, is dis- pensed with. Some practitioners, forgetful of the horizontal posture in which the patient is usually placed after the operation, have feared that, in La Faye’s method, the lower flap may sometimes confine the discharge. In order to avoid this incon- vience, Desault fecommended the formation of two flaps, one of which was anterior, the other posterior. The axillary artery was compressed from abovd the clavicle, at its coming out from between the scaleni muscles, while the integu- ments and flesh of the upper and internal part ol the arm were pushed away from the humerus. A knife was plunged betv'een these and the other soft parts behind, to make the anterior flap. I he arm being inclined backward and outward, the humeral artery was lied, the articulation opened, and the head of the bone dislocated. 'I he knife was then carried downward and backward, so as to form the posterior flap ; the incisions meeting in