PROSTATE GLAND. 941 tance, but a mass of condensed cellular mem- rune: this, however, on being cut into, differed rout the surrounding fat. In another there was lobe, blended laterally with the sides of the restate gland. These facts (says Sir Everard lotne) are mentioned, in proof of its not being lwavs of the same size, or having exactly the ainie appearance.’’ This is found also to be the case with Cowper’s jlands: they are sometimes large and distinct; in ' )ther subjects, they are scarcely to be detected; .md, in others again, are in all the intermediate states. The most distinct and natural appearance of this part was in a healthy subject, twenty-five years of age, of which the following is an account. > On turning off the vasa deferentia and vesiculse -seminales, exactly in the middle of the sulcus, i between the two "lateral portions of the prostate ggland, there was a rounded prominent body, the : base of which adhered to the coats of the bladder. It was imbedded, not only between the vasa de- ferentia and the bladder, but also, in some mea- sure, between the lateral portions of the prostate . giant! and the bladder, since they were in part spread over it, so as to prevent its circumference from being seen, and they adhered so closely as to require dissection to remove them; nor could this be done, beyond a certain extent, after which the same substance was continued from one to the other. This proved it to be a lobe of the prostate gland; its middle had a rounded form, united to the gland at the base next the bladder, but rendered a separate lobe by two fissures on its opposite surface. Its ducts passed directly through the coats of the bladder, on which it lay, and opened immediately behind the verum- ontanum. By means of this lobe, a circular aperture is formed in the prostate gland, which gives passage to the vasa deferentia. “ Previous to this investigation (says Sir Everard), it was not knosvn to me, that any distinct portion of the prostate gland was situated between the vasa deferentia and the bladder.” (On Diseases of the Prostate Gland, p. 9, 8vO. Lond. 1811.) Not- withstanding this explanation, to the correctness of which most English anatomists have acceded, it is worthy of notice, that Langenbeek, the pre- sent distinguished Professor of Anatomy and Surgery at Gottingen, in a review of Sir Everard’s account, declares, that he has never, in the natural state of the parts, found the middle lobe, as it is called, which he considers as a partial induration, rising up in the shape of a lobe. (Neuc Bibl. B. 1, p. 360, 12mo. Han- over, 1818.) This dissent would seem ex- traordinary, if it were not possible to suppose, that it may proceed, not from all the subjects at Gottingen differing from Londoners in being de- stitute of, what Sir Everard Home has named, the middle lobe of the prostate gland, but from Langenbeck’s not having traced in the healthy state of the gland, any portion which he thought deserving of that name. But though differences of opinion may be entertained about the name, none I presume can remain about the thing itself, which appears to have been long ago mentioned, though not perfectly described, by Morgagni. (Adversaria Anal. 4, Animad. 15.) The paper by Mr. C. Bell, illustrating how far our predecessors had a knowledge of this portion oi the gland, scorns to me one of his best pro- ductions ; and it is therefore with pleasure that I refer to it. (See An Account of the Muscles of the Ureters in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 3, p. 171, $c.) However, as this author impartially acknowledges, it is not because a fact was an- ciently known, or perhaps only cursorily noticed, that there may not be great merit in reviving the recollection, or perfecting the description of it; and as far as I can learn, none of the ana- tomical teachers in this city, previously to Sir Everard’s paper, particularly adverted, in the healthy original state of the prostate gland, to the structure, which he has pointed out, by what- ever name it be distinguished. According to Sir Everard Home, this lobe, in the earlier periods of life, when the body of the gland is in a sound state, is small; nor does it appear to become enlarged, even when the body and the lateral lobes have been considerably in- creased in size; but, in subjects of advanced age, this part, as well as the rest of the gland, is usually found somewhat enlarged, even in cases where no disease has been suspected during life. (P. 17.) When the middle lobe begins to en- large, it presses inwards towards the cavity of the bladder, putting the internal membrane upon the stretch, and communicating to it by im- mediate contact the inflammation, which oc- casioned its own enlargement. Hence, pain in making water, particularly after the last drops are voided, and a desire and straining to dis- charge more, after the bladder is empty. As this organ cannot now retain much urine, the desire to make water becomes frequent, and there is commonly more or less constitutional disturbance, or symptomatic fever. According to Sir Everard Home, in proportion as the middle lobe increases in size, it projects into the cavity of the bladder in the form of a nipple; but after a further augmentation, it loses the nipple-like appearance, becomes broader, and forms a transverse fold by pushing forward, ar.d stretching, the membrane, connecting it to the lateral lobes, 1,1 As the tumor, and the trans- verse fold, are situated immediately behind the orifice of the urethra, they arc pushed forwards before the urine in every attempt that is malic to void it, acting like a valve, and closing up the opening, till the cavity of the bladder is very much distended, when, the anterior part of the bladder being pushed forward, and the tumor being drawn back, in consequence of the membrane of the posterior part of the bladder being put on the stretch, the valve is opened, so that a certain quantity of water is allowed to escape, but the bladder is not completely emptied." (P. 19.) Sir Everard Home after- wards explains, that, as the tumor enlarges, the quantity voided at each time becomes smaller, and that which is retained is increased, until at length, the disease becomes so much aggravated, that there is a complete retention of urine. The body of the gland, and the lateral lobes, though less disturbed than the middle lobe by the pa- tient’s repeated eflorts to void the urine, become more or less enlarged; but, it is remarked, that they do not preserve either their natural, of any regular, proportion, to the middle lobe, noY do they always swell equally together, the left in some instances becoming much larger than the right. (P. 22.) When Sir Everard Home