SOI MAMMA. faring the latter vessel. It would be a great improvement in the mode of operating for the removal of these glands, if surgeons were always to make the patient lie down, with the arm placed in such a position as would let the light fall into the axilla. How much the steps of the opera- tion would be facilitated in this, way, I need not attempt to explain. The above directions will enable a surgeon to remove tumors in general. They apply also in a great measure to encysted tumors; but, a few particular rules how to operate in the latter cases, will be found in the article Tumors. One half of eacli ligature is always to be cut off before dress- ing the wound. The edges of the incision are to be brought together with strips of adhesive plas- ter ; and, before this can be done with ease, the stick confining the arm back must be removed, and the os brachii brought forward, so as to re- lax the pectoral muscle, ami integuments of the breast. No sutures should ever be employed, as they are useless, painful, and irritating. The wound being closed with sticking plaster, and a pledget of simple cerate, a compress of folded linen, or flannel, may be put over the dressings; these are to be secured with a broad piece of linen, which is to encircle the chest, be fastened with pins, or stitches, and kept from slipping down by two tapes, one of which is to go from behind forward, over each shoulder, and be stitched to the upper part o£ the bandage, both in front and behind. The arm on the same side as that, on which the operation has been done, should be kept perfectly motionless in a sling; for, every motion of the limb must evidently disturb the wound, by putting the great pectoral muscle into action, or rendering its fibres sometimes tense, sometimes relaxed. It is scarcely necessary to say, that, after so considerable an operation as the removal of a large breast, or any other tu- mor of magnitude, the patient should be given about thirty drops of the tinctura opii. A smaller dose always creates restlessness, head-aeh, and fever, after operations, instead of having the desired effect. Here it becomes me to state, that as I could not find, in any surgical book, with which I am acquainted, what I conceived to be a proper de- scription of the mode of removing a diseased breast, and tumors in general, the foregoing re- marks are given chiefly on my own authority. Whether they are just, or not, must be decided by the profession. The removal of a diseased breast rarely proves fatal of itself, unless the parts cut away extend to a considerable depth, and occupy a very large space, or the patient is much reduced before the operation. However, about two years ago, a patient in St. Bartholomew's Hospital died, with- out any very apparent cause, very soon after being operated upon; and Schmucker has re- corded an instance, in which the operation was followed by tetanus. ( Wu/miehmiingcu, li. 2, P- 80.) With respect, to the average success, following the removal of cancerous diseases, this is a topic, ydi-ich has been noticed in the article Cancer. The statement lately made by Baron Boyer is exceedingly unfavourable; for, in one hundred cases, in which he has removed the diseased parts, only four or five of the patients continued radi- cally cured. (Traili des Mol. Chir. T. 7, p. 237, 8vo. Paris, 1821.) The principal writers on the removal of the mamma are, Garengeot, Dionis, Le Dran, Ber- trandi, Sharp, and Sabatier, in their respective treatises on the operations. B. Bell, Latta, &c. have also treated on the subject in their Svstems of Surgery; and there is a memoir Sur VOpe- ration dit Cancer au Se,in, in Lcs (Euvret de Desault par Bichat, T. 2. MAMMARY ABSCESS. Milk Abscess. With regard to inflammations of the mamma, as my friend, Mr. James, has observed, there is “either simple phlegmon, or mammary abscess, which, as it depends upon a peculiarity of state and function, ought to stand alone. Mr. Hev also describes a deep-seated abscess, to which this gland is liable, of rather a chronic character, and is the same, perhaps, as that which Dr. Kirkland has described as the encysted. Dr. K. describes also two others, under the titles of chro- nic and encysted.” Certain cases most fre- quently occurring in unmarried females, and having very little tendency to suppuration, Mr. James suspects, are the result of inflammation of the glandular part of the breast from disorder in the digestive organs, uterine system, or both.— ( On Inflammation, p. 171.) Women who suckle are particularly subject to inflammation and suppuration in the breast. The part enlarges, becomes tense, heavy, and painful. The integuments of the breast some- times assume an uniform redness; sometimes they are only red in particular places. The in- flammation may affect the mammary gland it- self, or be confined to the skin and surrounding cellular substance. In the latter case, the in- flamed part is equally tense; but, when the glandular structure of the breast is also affected, the enlargement is irregular, and seems to con- sist of one or more large tumors, situated in the substance of the part. The pain often extends to the axillary glands. The secretion of the milk is not always suppressed, when the inflam- mation is confined to the integuments, and sup- puration is said to come on more quickly, than in the affections of the mammary gland itself. When the symptoms of inflammation continue to increase for four or five days, suppuration may be expected ; unless the progress of the inflam- mation be slow, and its degree moderate, in which circumstances, resolution may often be obtained, even as late as a fortnight after the first attack. Inflammations of the breast are almost always attended with symptoms of the sympathetic inflammatory fever. (See Fevers. Surgical.) I think authors err, who describe the febrile disorder as generally preceding the local complaint. Women are most liable to mammary abscesses within the first tlirfee months after parturition; but they are also very much exposed to the dis- order as long as they continue to suckle. The most common causes occasioning the mammary abscess, as enumerated by writers in general, are, repressing the secretion of milk at an early period, mental disturbance, Right, &c. ; exposure to cold, moving the arms too much while the breasts arc very large and dis- tended, bruises, and other external injuries. The causes are not always obvious. 3 F