HEAD. 57/ with accuracy. Mr. Abcrnethv admits, however, that in aged persons, and in tliose, in whom the circulation has been rendered languid by the accident, the mode of distinction, which he has pointed out, will be less conclusive. Pott remarks, that “ if the extravasation be of blood, and that blood be in a lluid state, small in quantity, and lying between the skull and dura mater, immediately under or near to the place perforated, it may happily be all discharged by such perforation, and the patient’s life may thereby be saved; of which many instances are producible. But if the event does not prove so fortunate, if the extravasation be so large or so situated that the operation proves insufficient, yet he symptoms having been urgent, general eva- luation having been used ineffectually, and a .round or bruise of the scalp having pointed out he part which most probably received the blow : dthough the removal of that part of the scalp (a imple incision ought to have been said) should tot detect any injury' done to the bone, yet the ymptoms still subsisting, I cannot help thinking, hat perforation of the cranium is in these eir- umstanees so fully warranted, that the omission f it may truly be called a neglect of having one that which might have proved serviceable, nd, rebus sic stantibus, can do no harm. It is ery true, that no man can beforehand tell hether such operation will prove beneficial or ot, because he cannot know the precise nature, .agree, or situation pf the mischief; but, this un- irtainty properly considered, is so far from being dissuasive from the attempt, that it is really a -rong incitement to make it; it being fully as lpossible to know, that the extravasated fluid >es not lie between the skull and dura mater, id that under the part stricken, as that it does; id if the latter should be the case, and the opera- m be not performed, one, and most probably e only means of relief, will have been omitted.” When there is no interval of sense, between e blow, and the coming on of perilous sym- oms, it is frequently impossible to determine, lether the mischief be owing to the largeness d suddenness of the extravasation, to the vio- ice of the shock, which the brain has received, to both these causes at once, which, unfor- lately, is too often the case. In this latter mplication, indeed, trephining will frequently of no avail, even though it serve for the entire noval of all pressure off the brain; for, the lent cannot recover from the violence cf the leussion, and never regains his senses. This no reason, however, why the chance of the rration doing good should not be taken, when re are evident symptoms of pressure. Let in these darkened cases, call to mind the sen- 1 ents of Pott, who says : “ No man, who is at acquainted with this subject, will ever venture ; pronounce or promise success from the use of trephine, even in the most apparently slight -s; he knows that honestly he cannot; it is ugh that it has often been successful yvhere : when every other means have failed. The * ar)d just consideration is this: does the ope- on °f perforating the cranium in such case ®t all to that degree of hazard which the e°t is in before it is performed ? or can he in •y instances do well without it? If it docs to the patient’s hazard, that is certainly a very good reason for laying it aside, or for using it very cautiously; but, if it does not, and the only objection made to it, is, that it frequently fails of being successful, surely it cannot be right to disuse that, which has often been, not only salutary, but the causa sine quo non of preserva- tion, merely, because it is also often unsuccessful, that is, because it is not infallible.” Giving vent to the confined blood “mav pro- duce a cure, or li may prove only a temporary relief, according to the different circumstances of different cases. The disappearance, and even the alleviation of the most pressing symptoms is un- doubtedly a favourable circumstance, but is not to be depended upon as absolutely portending a good event. Either a bloody, or limpid ex- travasation may be formed, or forming between the meninges, or upon, or within the brain, and may prove as certainly pernicious in future, as the more external effusion would have done, had it not been discharged; or the dura mater may have been so damaged by the violence of the blow as to inflame and suppurate, and thereby destroy the patient. “ If the disease lies between the dura and pia mater, mere perforation of the skull can do nothing; and, therefore, if the symptoms are pressing, there is no remedy but division of the outer of these membranes. The division of the dura mater is an operation, which I have several times seen done by others, and have often done myself; I have seen it, and found it now and then successful; and, from those instances of success, am satisfied of the propriety, and neces- sity of its being sometimes done.” He next states, however, his sentiment, that wounding the dura mater is itself attended with dangerous consequences. Mr. Abernethy’s opinion of such operation has already been given. “ Upon the removal of a piece of bone by means of the trephine ; if the operation has been performed over the part where the disease is situated, and the extravasation be of the fluid kind, and between the cranium and dura mater; such fluid, whether it be blood, water, or both, is immediately seen, and is partly discharged by such opening; if, on the other hand, the extra- vasation be of blood in a coagulated or grumous state, it is either loose, or in some degree ad-, herent to the dura mater; if the former of these be the case, it is either totally or partially dis- charged at the time of, or soon after, the opera- tion, according to the quantity or extent of the mischief; if the latter, the perforation discovers, but does not immediately discharge it.’’ Mr. Pott then lavs it down as a rule, that a large ex- travasation must necessarily require a more free removal of bone than a small one ; and a gru- mous or coagulated extravasation, a still more free use of the instrument. All cases of pressure on the brain are attended with hazard of inflammation of this organ, and its membranes. The danger must be averted,_ as much as possible, by applying cold washes to the head, and employing free and repeated bleeding, leeches, antimonials, saline purgatives, and other antiphlogistic means. CONCUSSION, OR COMMOTION OF THE 11UAIN. It is observed by Mr. Pott, that " very alnrrn- 3 P P