SURGERY. 1005- Miteenth century have not altered the face of u.-ir profession, although they have powerfully ntribtited to its advancement. In surgery, as t author has remarked, some feeble rays always ecetle brilliant lights, and it approaches perfec- jii in a very gradual way. In the last century, •sever, amongst the distinguished surgeons of ranee, there are two of extraordinary genius, .unci whom, as it were, all the others might be ouped and arranged, and whose names deserve be affixed to the two most brilliant epochs of rench surgery. These are first J. L. Petit, hose glorv was shared by the Academy of Sur- ?ry; and, secondly, the celebrated Desault. It is not with surgery, as with physic, strictly called ; the epochs of the latter are distin- . iished by hypotheses ; while those of surgery ;e marked by discoveries. The eminent men this last branch of the profession have not, ;c;c the most renowned physicians, created sects, tilt systems, destroyed those of their predeces- >rs, and constructed a new edifice, which in its irn has been demolished by other hands. All ' them have been satisfied with combating an- ent errors, discovering new facts, and continu- g their art, the sphere of which they have en- rged by their discoveries, without making it rnd under the yoke of systems, which it would • ive ill supported. To this steady and uni- rra course (says Richerand,) which is a stri- ng proof of the superiority of surgery, and of c c certainty and invariableness of its principles, 5 all we oppose the numerous revolutions of vsic? The Christian religion, which abounds sects, has not a greater number of them, than ysic. “ Naturistes, solidistes, humoristes, vita- les, animistes, semi-animistes, mecaniciens, imistes ; le plus grand notnbre des medecins more Hippocrate d’un culte presque super- :tieux; eeux-ci marchent sous les bannieres de aalil; ceux-la s’appuient du grand nom de oerhaave; tels autres invoquent Sydenham, offinann, Stoll, absolument commc les theo- giens combattent pour Luther, Zuingle, Calvin, i Jansen.” (Nosogr. Ghir. T. I.) The elogy on J. L. Petit, delivered in the idst of the Royal Academy of Surgery, of hich he was one of the first and most distin- iished members, represents him as blending the udy of anatomy with his amusements when a boy; and ardently seeking every opportunity increase his knowledge by observation. He d had experience enough to publish at an early •riod of his life his Traite sur les Maladies dcs s, Paris, 1705, in 12mo. ; a work, which for a uitury was esteemed the best upon the sub- ct. Ilis success was most virulently opposed by e envious critics; and it was not till after more an thirty years of academical labours and ex- nsive practice, that he was unanimously chosen ie head of his associates. This acknowledged qx riority, however, was the more flattering, as ie honour was obtained at a period when sur- :ry was in a flourishing state in France, and hen Petit held no office, from which he could ■nye an influence foreign to his personal merit. * Me Mareschal, La Peyronie, and La Marti- '•ere assured him of the royal favour, Quesnay, I'lraml, and Louis, who corrected his writings, ia( 0 speak a language which docs honour ■ that famous collection, to which lie contri- ited his observations, (sec Mtmoires el Prix de VAcademic lioyalc de Chirurgic, 10 Vols- in -1/o.) and in which, if some theoretical ex- planations be put out of consideration, nothing lias lost its value by age. J. L. Petit was also the author of a “ Traite. dcs Maladies Chi- rurgicales ct des Operations qui leur convien- nent. Ouvrage Posthumca production that will always stand high in the estimation of the judicious surgeon. The history of this epoch, so glorious for the profession of surgery', is completely detailed in the Memoirs and Prix of the Royal Academy of Surgery; a work which is absolutely indispensa- ble, and the various parts of which cannot be too often considered. In it are preserved the la- bours of Mareschal, Quesnay, La Peyronie, Morand, Petit, De la Martiniere, Le Dran, Garengeot, de la Faye, Louis, Verdier, Fou- bert, Hevin, Pibrac, Fabre, Le Cat, Bordenave, Sabatier, Puzos, Levret, and several other practitioners, who, though less famous, con- tributed by their exertions and knowledge to form this useful body of surgical facts. Many of the preceding surgeons also distinguished themselves by other productions, which, however, I shall not here enumerate, as they are quoted in many other parts of this work. To the foregoing list of eminent French sur- geons must be added, the names of La Motte, Maitre-Jeari, Goulard, Daviel, Ravaton, Me- jean, Pouteau, David, and Frere Cosme. While surgery was thus advancing in France, other nations were not neglectful of it. At this period, flourished in England, White, Cheselden, Douglas, the two Monros, Sharp, Cowper, Warner, Alanson, Percival Pott, Hawkins, Smellie, and the two Hunters. White’s Cases in Surgery, 1770; Chesel- den’s Treatise on the High Operation for the Stone, London, 1723, in 8vo. and his Treatise on the Anatomy of the Human Body; Doug- las’s Tract, entitled, “ Lithotomia Douglass- iana ;” Sharp’s Treatise of the Operations ; and his “ Critical Inquiry into the present State of SurgeryMonro's Works by his son; Warner's Cases in Surgery, 1754^ and his Description of the Eye and its Diseases, 1775 ; Alanson's Treatise on Amputation; Pott's Chirurgical Works; Smellie's Mid- wifery ; and John Hunter on the Blood, In- jlarnmation, <|e,; his Treatise on the Venereal Disease; Animal Economy, the Teeth, and all the papers written by himself and his brother, in the Phil. Trans. Med. Ohs. and. Inquiries, and Trans, of a Society for the. Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge ; are productions, which reflect the highest credit on the state of surgery in England. But, of all these eminent men, none contri- buted more powerfully than Mr. Percival Pott, to the improvement of the practice of surgery in England. His life, indeed, forms a sort of epoch in the history of the profession. Before his inculcations and example had produced a de- sirable change, the maxim of “ dolor tncdicina doloris," as we learn from Sir James Earle, re- mained unrefuted. The severe treatment of the •old school, in the operative part and in the ap- plications, continued in force. The first prin- ciples of surgery, the natural process and powers of healing, were either not understood, or not attended to; painful and escharotic dressings