820 MORTIFICATION. still better, with ipecacuanha, as in Dover’s pow- der, are frequently of singular service, not only by diminishing pain, but also, by inducing a soft and moist state of the skin.” (Thornton, p. 560.) A strict regimen, which may have been useful and even necessary, during the inflamma- tory stage, may have a very bad effect, if con- tinued too long, by diminishing the patient’s strength, which, on the contrary, should be sup- ported by the most nourishing food. A vegetable diet, as Dr. Thomson observes, is to be preferred in the commencement both of acute gangrene with inflammatory fever, and of chronic gangrene with a fever from the first of a typhoid nature. Wine and animal food given too early in diseases, which have a tendency to gangrene, increase the febrile heat and frequency of the pulse, oppress the stomach, render the tongue foul, the patient restless and delirious, and his situation dangerous, if not hopeless. In the transition from gangrene to sphacelus, an abatement of the symptomatic fever usually takes place in almost all cases, which have ultimately a favourable termination. Dr. Thomson be- lieves, that this is the first period, at which it is safe to allow vinous' liquors, or diet, chiefly animal. (P. 56'i.) I next come to a second very essential and important indication to be fulfilled, as soon as the symptoms, announcing the existence of the inflammatory state, appear to abate, and the patient begins to be debilitated. This indication is to prevent excessive weakness by the suitable employment of cordials, and, particularly, of tonics. These same means also contribute to place the system in a proper state for freeing itself from the mortified parts, or, in other words, for detaching them. For, inflammation is the preparatory step, which nature takes to accom- plish the separation of mortified parts from the living ones, and such salutary inflammation cannot take place, if the energies of life be too much depressed In order to fulfil the above indication, it is necessary to prescribe a nourishing diet, with a certain quantity of good wine, proportioned to the patient’s strength, and the symptoms of the complaint. This diet is generally productive of more real benefit than the whole class of cordial and stimulating medicines. However, when the patient is much weakened, when the mortification of the part affected is complete, and the disorder is spreading to others, some of the following remedies may be ordered: ammonia, aromatic confection, aether, &c. In general, however, wine is best, because more agreeable than cordials; and for this purpose, one ought to prefer the most perfect wines, such as those of Spain and Madeira. Of all the medicines, hitherto recommended for the cure of mortification, there is certainly not one, that has acquired such a character for efficacy, as the Peruvian bark. It is said, that this remedy often stops, in a very evident and expeditious manner, the course of the disorder. Being a very powerful tonic, it is thought to operate by strengthening the system, and thus maintaining in every part the necessary tone for- resisting the progress of mortification. But, whatever mav be its mode of acting, the advocates for this medicine contend, that it is now a well- known fact, that it ought to be employed in almost all cases of mortification, as soon as the violence of the inflammatory symptoms has been j appeased. It was Mr. Rushworth, a surgeon at North- j ampton, who made this discovery in the year I 1715. Amyand and Douglas, two surgeons in I London, soon afterwards confirmed the virtue of j this remedy. Mr. Shipton, another F.nglish sur- J geon, has also spoken, in the Philosophical j Transactions, of the good effects, which he has I seen produced by this medicine. In the Medical j Essays of Edinburgh, Drs. Monro and Paisley j published several cases, illustrative of the efficacy of bark in cases of mortification. We are there S informed, that when its exhibition was interrupted, ‘ the separation of the eschars was retarded, and that, on the medicine being resorted to again, such a separation went on again more quickly. Since this period, all practitioners, both in Eng- land and elsewhere, have had recourse to this j remedy, which has every where obtained the highest praises. Unfortunately, these praises have induced surgeons to employ it indis- criminately, and with equal confidence, in all cases. We cannot indeed doubt, that bark has fre- quently had the most salutary effect, in cases of . mortification, though sometimes it may probably have had imputed to it effects, which were en- tirely produced by nature. The following ob- servation, made by Dr. Thomson, is highly worthy of recollection : “ In attending to the effects, supposed to result from the operations of the external and internal remedies, which are daily employed for the cure of mortification, there are two facts, well ascertained, which ap- pear to me to be peculiarly deserving of your regard. The first of these is, that mortification often stops spontaneously, without any assist- ance whatever from medicine ; the second, that it often begins, and continues to spread, or even after it has stopt for a while, recommences and proceeds to a fatal termination, in spite of the best directed efforts of the healing art.” (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 55 7.) In many cases, bark is evidently hurtful, when exhibited prematurely. There are other instances, in which it is impossible to employ it in a sufficient quantity, the stomach not being able to bear it in any form. In general, it should never be ad- ministered, when the pulse is high, and other in- flammatory symptoms exist; but, when the ten- sion of the part diminishes, the pulse sinks, and symptoms of weakness commence, and, parti- cularly, when with these circumstances, we per- ceive a separation beginning to take place be- tween the dead and the living part, bark hardly ever fails to support the strength of the consti- tution, and powerfully to accelerate the separa- ! tion of the mortified parts. (Encyclop. Method. Art. Gangrene.) However, as I have already remarked, it is quite wrong to prescribe bark, in every instance, as the sole remedy; for there are many cases, in which it is unnecessary; some, in which it does harm; and others, in which it is totally inefficacious. It is a medicine obviously of no service, when the mortification arises from an external cause, and is the only complaint, in a healthy, strong constitution. It is equally un-