HERNIA. G07 good substitute, when allowed to evaporate from the surface of the swelling. Care must be taken, that the cold be not so applied as to freeze the scrotum, and bring on sloughing. (A. Cooper, p. 15.) Opiutes.—Mr. Hey met with several, cases, in which opiates, given freely, (in athletic per- sons after bleeding) procured a reduction of strangulated hernia. He cannot say, however, that this remedy is generally successful; but, it has the advantage of removing, for a time, the pain and vomiting usually attendant on strangulation, even though it prove ultimately inefficacious. Opiates should be given in large doses, when it is wished to try their effect in procuring reduction; and whenever the symptoms of strangulation re- turn, after having been removed by opiates, the operation should be performed without delay. (E. 134, 135.) Tobacco Glystcrs. — For this purpose, some surgeons prefer a decoction of tobacco, made by infusing, or boiling, one dram of the plant, for ten minutes, in a pint of water; others employ the smoke, which is prepared, and introduced into the rectum, by means of an apparatus sold at almost every surgical instrument maker’s. Perhaps, both methods are equally efficacious; hut, as one requires an apparatus, while the other does not, and is equally proper, the decoction may be entitled to most recommendation. The machine for the smoke is also frequently out of order. Next to the operation, tobacco glysters are the most certain means of bringing about the reduction of the strangulated parts. Besides exciting the action of the intestines, they exert a peculiar depressing influence on the whole system, reducing the pulse, and causing nausea and sick- ness, cold sweats and fainting, under which cir- cumstances, the parts often recede spontaneously, or may be easily reduced. Mr. A. Cooper pru- dently advises injecting half the above quantity at first; for, he has seen two drams, and even one, when used as an infusion, and introduced at once, prove fatal. (P. 24.) The rest should be injected presently, when it appears, that the tobacco does not operate with the extraordinary violence, with which it does in a few particular constitutions. A case, recently published by Mr. C. Bell, looks to me very much like an example of the occasional poisonous effects of the tobacco clyster, though not reported as such, by the author. At least, no particulars of any fatal mischief either in the tumor, or abdomen,-are detailed, and it is remarked of the patient; “ His strength held up until the tobacco clyster was administered to him, after which, he very suddenly fell low, and sunk.” {Surgical Obs. Part 2, p. 189.) The smoke proved fatal in an instance witnessed by Desault, {(Enures tic C/dr. T. 2, p. 344) and an infusion of 3 U- to ^viij. of water seemed to produce sudden mortal effects in another ex- ample on record. (Edinh. Med. and Surgical Jottrn. Vol. D, p. 159.) Poultices and Fomentations have not the con- fidence of any experienced, or intelligent sur- geon. Whoever, in these urgent cases, wastes time, in trying the effects of such applications, merits censure for his credulity, ignorance, and unfitness to undertake the treatment of a rapid disease, in which, as Pott remarks, if we do not get forward, we generally go backward; and whatever does no good, if it be at all depended upon, certainly does harm, by occasioning an irretrievable loss of time. OF THE^ ORDER, IN WHICH THE PRECEDING ME- THODS AND REMEDIES SHOULD BE TRIED, AND OF THE TIME, WHEN THE OPERATION SHOULD NOT BE DELAYED. In the treatment of a strangulated hernia, a surgeon cannot be too deeply impressed with the danger of spending time in the trial of methods of inferior efficacy, or of such as are evinced to be ineffectual in the cases before them. The rapidity, with which gangrenous mischief sometimes arises, and the patient loses his life, has been proved in a multitude of unfortunate ex- amples, and should operate as a warning to all practitioners against the danger of deferring the operation too long. In the course of my read- ing, however, I have not met with so remarkable an instance of the sudden mortification, and ra- pidly fatal termination of a hernia, as the follow- ing case recorded by Baron Larrey, in speaking of the fatiguing and forced marches performed by the French soldiers in Egypt. These marches, he says, brought on in one case, “ a hernia which formed suddenly, and became at the same time strangulated. The man was immediately brought to my ambulance; but, a spontaneous gangrene, which had all on a sudden attacked the intestine, and extended to the other abdominal viscera, caused the patient’s death in the space of two hours, and made it impossible'for me to do the operation for hinj. This is the second example, that I have been acquainted with, in which the effects of the accident were thus rapid.” (Lnr- rcij, in Mem. de Chirurgie Militaire, T. 1, p. 196.) The taxis is generally among the first things to be tried, and Mr. A. Cooper thinks the at- tempts should be continued for a quarter, or half an hour. When these have been ineffectual, the patient, if the circumstances do not forbid, should be immediately bled, and have a large opening made in the vein, so that the sudden- ness of the evacuation may be most likely to bring on fainting. The taxis should then be tried again. When the strangulation is very acute, and the patient youngand strong, perhaps, it maybe most advisable to follow the advice delivered by Scarpa and Desault, which is to bleed the patient, and put him in the warm bath, before the taxis is at- tempted at all. If bleeding alone has been practised, and the manual efforts at reduction should not now suc- ceed, the warm bath maybe employed,provided it. can be, gut ready in a very short time, but none should ever be lost in waiting for it to be prepared. WTen the bath is used, the taxis may be attempted, as the patient lies in the water; a situation, in which I have succeeded in reducing several herniae. Certainly not more than one hour should ever be allotted for putting in practice the first at- tempts at reduction, bleeding, and the warm bath. The plan should be, while the trial of one