ANUS. 189 The practice is a necessary consequence of the theory. Whoever supposes diseased cal- losity, and great loss of substance, will ne- cessarily think himself obliged to destroy the former, and to prevent the cavity, formed by the latter, from tilling up too hastily. On the other hand, he who regards the cavity of the abscess as being principally the effect of the gradual distraction and separation of its sides, with very little loss of substance, compared with the size of the said cavity; and who looks upon the induration round about, as nothing more than a circumstance which necessarily accom- panies every inflammation in membranous parts, more especially in those which tend to suppura- tion ; will, upon the smallest reflection, perceive, that the dressings applied to such cavity ought to be so small in quantity, as to permit nature to bring the sides of the cavity toward each other, and that such small quantity of dressings ought to consist of materials proper only to encourage easy and gradual suppuration. Suppuration is to be produced and maintained, not by thrusting in such applications, as by their quantity distend, and by their quality irritate and destroy; but by dressing lightly and easily with such as appease, relax, and soften. If the hollow, immediately it is opened, be filled with dressings (of any kind), the sides of it will be kept from approaching each other, or may even be farther separated. But if this cavity be not filled, or have little or no dressings of any kind introduced into it, the sides imme- diately collapse; and, coming nearer and nearer, do, in a very short space of time, convert a large hollow into a small sinus. And this is also constantly the case, when the matter, instead of being let out by an artificial opening, escapes through one made by the bursting of the con- taining parts. True, this sinus will not always become per- fectly closed; but the aim of nature is not, therefore, the less evident; nor the hint, which art ought to borrow from her, the less palpable. In this, as in most other cases, where there are large sores, or considerable cavities, a great deal will depend on the patient’s habit, and the care that is taken of it: if that be good, or if it be properly corrected, the surgeon will have very little trouble in his choice of dressings ; only to take care that they do not offend either in quantity, or quality: but if the habit be bad, or injudiciously treated, he may use the whole farrago of externals, and only waste his own and his patient’s time. By light, easy treatment, large abscesses formed in the neighbourhood of the rectum will sometimes be cured, without any necessity oc- curring of meddling with the said gut. But it much more frequently happens, that the intes- tine, although it may not have been pierced or eroded by the matter, has yet been so stripped or denuded, that no consolidation of the sinus can be obtained, but by a division ; that is, by laying the two cavities, viz. that of the abscess, and that of the intestine, into one. When the intestine is found to be separated rorn the surrounding parts by the matter, the operation of dividing it had better (on many accounts) be performed at the time the abscess is first opened, than be deferred to a future one. For, if it be done properly, it will add so little to the pain which the patient must feel by opening the abscess, that he will seldom be able to distinguish the one from the other, either with regard to time or sensation ; whereas, if it be deferred, he must either be in continual ex- pectation of a second cutting, or feel one at a time when he does not expect it. The intention in this operation is to divide the intestine rectum from the verge of the anus up as high as the top of the hollow in which the matter was formed; thereby to lay the two cavities of the gut and abscess into one ; and by means of an open, instead of a hollow or sinuous sore, to obtain a firm and lasting cure. For this purpose, the curved, probe-pointed knife, with a narrow blade, is the most useful and handy instrument of any. This, introduced into the sinus, while the surgeon’s fore-finger is in the intestine, will enable him to divide all that can ever require division; and that with less pain to the patient, with more facility to the operator, as well as with more certainty and ex- pedition than any other instrument whatever. If there be no opening in the intestine, the smallest degree of force will thrust the point of the knife through, and thereby make one: if there be one already, the same point'will find and pass through it. In either case, it will be received by the finger in ano; will thereby be prevented from deviating, and being brought out by the same fin- ger, must necessarily divide all that is between the edge of the knife, and the verge of the anus : that is, must by one simple incision (which is made in the smallest space of time imaginable) lay the two cavities of the sinus and of the intes- tine into one. Authors make a very formal distinction be- tween those cases in which the intestine is pierced by the matter, and those in which it is not; but although this distinction may be useful when the different states of the d sease are to be described, yet in practice, when the operation of dividing the gut becomes necessary, such dis- tinction is of no consequence at all; it makes no alteration in the degree, kind, or quantity of pain which the patient is to feel; the force re- quired to push the knife through the tender gut is next to none, and when its point is in the cavity, the cases are exactly similar. Immediately after the operation, a soft dossil of fine lint should be introduced (from the rec- tum) between the divided lips of the incision; as well to repress any slight haemorrhage, as to prevent the immediate reunion of the said lips; and the rest of the sore should be lightly dressed with the same. This first dressing should be permitted to continue, until a beginning suppu- ration renders it loose enough to come away easily; and all the future ones should be as light, soft, and easy as possible; consisting only of such materials as are likely to promote kindly and gradual suppuration. The sides ol the abscess are large; the incision must necessarily, for a few days, be inflamed; and the discharge will, for some time, be discoloured and glecty: this induration, and this sort of discharge, are often mistaken for signs of diseased callosity, and undiscovered sinuses; upon which prosump-