ANEURISM. 117 they may not have minutely described the tex- ture of the sac, in which the blood was contained, lie inclines to the opinion, however, that most of these aneurisms were similar to those, which result from the rupture of the iuternal tunics of the arteries, and the dilatation of the cellular coat; for, the fragments of the lacerated coats are often blended with osseous, steatomatous, or purulent matter, and confounded with the cellu- lar coat that forms the exterior investment. (See Medecine Opirataire, T. 3. p. Ibl)—l(il2.) According to Rieherand, when an aneurism is recent and of small size, the dissection of the tumour exhibits a simple dilatation of the arterial coats; while, in other cases, where the aneurism is large, and has existed a considerable time, the internal and middle coats of the vessel are inva- riably lacerated. In the early stage of the dis- ease, the blood, which fills the aneurismal sac, is fluid, and on the contrary, in cases, where the internal tunics of the artery are ruptured, the sac contains more or less coagulated lymph. The external, or cellular coat, composes the greater part of the cyst ; and the coagulated lymph, with which it is filled, is arranged in layers, the den- sity of which is described as being greater in pro- portion to the length of time, which they have been deposited. Such as are nearest the sac are, therefore, represented as being most compact, and containing the smallest quantity of the co- louring matter of the blood ; more deeply, the concretions of lymph resemble simple coagula; and lastly, the blood, which is still nearer the arterial tube, retains its fluidity. After the aneurismal sac has been cleansed from the lymph and coagulated blood, which it contains, its parietes will appear to he almost en- tirely formed of the cellular coat of the artery. Towards the bottom may be observed the aper- ture, arising from the laceration of the internal and middle coats, which, being much less elastic thantheexternal, are ruptured in an early stage of thedisease. It is when these two tunics give way, that the aneurismal tumour undergoes a sudden and considerable increase in its size; for, then, the cellular coat alone has to sustain all the pres- sure of the blood, which, now becoming effused into a more ample cyst, loses a great deal of its impetus, coagulates, and forms fibrous masses; circumstances to which may be ascribed the hard- ness of the swelling, the weakness of its pulsation, &<• (Nut. Chir. /’. 4, />. 82, Ed. 7.) But, this author seems to venture far beyond the bounds of accuracy, when he represents every small aneurism, as exhibiting a dilatation of the arterial coats, unless his meaning refer more par- ticularly to the outer coat alone. I he reality of what are called true internal aneurisms was ably urged by C. F. Ludwig, in a programma written expressly on that subject. (lJiugna.iticci Chir. Fritfrw. dc Aneuryinate In- Ur"° >' Ups. 1805.) But an interesting case, exemplifying an aneurismal dilatation of all the coats of the abdominal aorta, has been recently published by Professor Naegele, of Heidelberg. The swelling was as large as a man’s head, and Weighed about five pounds. The aorta began to bo dilated at the point, where it passes into e rj"'ity of the abdomen between the crura of ..e ‘*,aphragm. 7 his dilatation extended gradu- a > down to a point, about four finger-breadths from the bifurcation of the aorta into the iliac arteries, at which point, strictly speaking, the large aneurismal sac commenced. The length of the whole dilated part of the vessel was eleven inches, that of the sac, six, and its diameter five inches. The artery was not equally dilated in every direction, the expansion being most consi- derable laterally, and forwards. Professor Nae- gele and Ackermann found, that the three coats of the aorta, the internal, muscular, and cellular, were all equally dilated. These gentlemen traced the muscular coat with a scalpel from the top to the bottom of the tumor, and not the slightest doubt could be entertained, that the case was a true aneurism. (F. (J. Nuge'c, Epistolu ad T. F. Bultz, qad Hiiloria ct Descriptio Aneu- vysmatis, quad in aorta abdominuli obsercavil, coritiiietur, Hcidelb. 181G.) After the clear demonstration of an aneurismal sac being occasionally composed of all the coats of an artery, as afforded in the dissections and pathological preparations, to which a reference has been made, the reader will be better prepared to judge of the difference existing upon this sub- ject between Scarpa and other modern writers, and as far as I can judge, the question is now reduced to one, whether any of the dilatations on record, said to comprise all the arterial coats, merit the name of aneurism. We have seen, that lie lias always unequivocally admitted that the arteries may be dilated, though the kind of dilatation, to which he alludes, is thought by him, as well as by A. Burns, and my friend Mr. Hodgson, (On Diseases oj Arteries, fyc. p. 58.) to require discrimination in a pathological point of view. “ It is proved (says Scarpa) by dissec- tion, that the morbid dilatation is circumscribed by the proper coats of the diseased artery; and that the inner surface of the sac, formed by the partial, or total protrusion of the arterial tube, is never filled with polypous laminae, or layers of fibrine disposed over each other; (a fact par- ticularly dwelt upon by Mr. Hodgson, p. 82,) which layers never fail to be formed in greater or smaller quantity in the cavity of an aneurism. “ The opinion, that these layers of coagula are not met with in small dilatations of arteries, but are found in large expansions of them, he says, is contradicted by numerous careful observations, and especially by a specimen, actually before him when he was writing, where a morbid dilatation of the arch of the aorta, in the vicinity of its origin from the heart, six inches in length, and five in breadth, was entirely free from any of the lamellated coagula, always found in aneurisms. On the contrary, the sac of the aneurism is formed from the parts surrounding the wounded, or rup- tured artery, into which pouch, the blood, enter- ing as into a natural receiver, and quite out of the current of the circulation, moves only slowly, and constantly deposits these layers of fibrine, and this sometimes in such quantity as to fill the whole cyst. Scarpa, at the same time, par- ticularly explains, that, if accidentally furrows, or fissures exist on the inside of the morbid dila- tation, the fibrine may be deposited in these rough places, but only in them. These fissures and inequalities of the internal surfuce of the mor- bidly dilated artery, he regurds strictly ns so many beginnings of another disease of the. ves- sel, quite different from dilatation, that is, of