295 CATARACT. I •hancc of success; secondly, the examples, in vhich the prognosis is more or less doubtful ; nd, lastly, the cases, in which there is a great irobability, or an absolute certainty of the opera- ion failing, in which last circumstance the prac- ee is prohibited. According to Beer, the result of an operation rill probably be favourable; 1. When the cata- act is a genuine local complaint, perfectly free rom every species of complication. 2. When le conformation of the eye and surrounding parts , such, as to allow whatever method of operating nay be most advantageous for the particular case, ) be done without difficulty. 3. When the . atient is intelligent enough to behave himself, i a manner, which will not disturb the precision nd safety of the requisite proceedings in the peration, or the subsequent treatment. 4. When tie operator, not only possesses all requisite aedical and surgical knowledge in general, but capable of judging correctly, what method of perating suits the particular case ; and when Resides he has derived from nature and acquire- lents such mental and corporeal qualities, as are ssential to a skilful operator on the eye: viz. n acute eye-sight, a stead}-, but light, skilful and, excellently qualified for mechanical artifice a general; long, pliant fingers; a delicate touch ; certain tenderness, in the scientific treatment f this particular organ; complete fearlessness ; ivincible presence of mind ; and proper circum- oection. 5. When the requisite instruments are ot too complicated ; but well adapted to the urpose, and in right order. 6. When the do- lestie condition of the patient is such as not to ecasion any particular disadvantages during, or : 'ter the operation. Yet, says Beer, even with us fortunate combination of circumstances, uni- - >rm success must not be expected after opera- ons for cataracts; for a patient, whose sight is uite prevented by this disease, and <vho previ- ously to its origin, was already far-sighted, will e still more so after the removal of the diseased ms, and in order to see distinctly, the most corn- ton objects, which are near, he will be obliged instantly to employ suitable glasses. An indi- idual of this description, though the operation be ane with great success, is apt not to be satisfied, ut, such patients, ns were short-sighted previ- . jsly to the formation of their cataracts, are more eased with the restoration of vision ; as, before le operation, their eye-sight was much less, than hat it is now, and in general they can lay aside ie glasses, which they formerly made use of, ithout having occasion for any others. Lastly, • Beer remarks, although patients, who, before e origin of their cataracts, were neither far nor tort-sighted, are sensible of the important bene- of an operation, inasmuch as they now plainly scern all objects again, yet, they are usually diged to employ spectacles in reading, writing, ' doing any kind of fine work. On the other hand, the result of an operation eer considers always more or less doubtful; 1. 1 hen the cataract is only locally complicated, as, ■r instance, with pterygium, which may not form iy absolute reason against the experiment. 2. ^hen the conformation of the eye and surround- ig parts, causes several hinderanees to theopera- 1r; as is tlic rase, when the eye is small, and cep in the oibit, and the fissure of the cyc-lids very narrow. 3. When the patient is either very stupid, and obstinate; rough mannered; particu- larly tiinid ; or badly fed. 4. When the surgeon knows how to operate only in one way, in which, perhaps, be has also not had sufficient experience, and when possibly he is also deficient in the quali- ties specified above, as essential to a good opera- tor on the eyes. 5. When the instruments are bad. 6. When in the patient’s domestic affairs, there are any circumstances, which cannot be removed, and are likely to have a bad effect upon the operation, as an unwholesome, damp room, great uncleanliness, &c. 7. When the origin of the cataract was attended with repeated, or tedi- ous head-ach, though this may have subsided a long while. 8. When the patient is particularly subject to catarrhal and rheumatic complaints, especially affecting the eyes. P. When the patient has often had, or still labours under an attack of erysipelas, notwithstanding the parts inflamed he remote from the eye. 10. When the patient’s skin is peculiarly irritable. 11. When in his childhood, or youth, lie has been frequently af- flicted with convulsions, or epileptic fits, though these complaints may have ceased many years. 12. When there is the least tendency to certain constitutional diseases, scrophula, gout, syphilis, &c. Gout, however, does not always make an operation fail, as we learn from Mr. Travers, who, in three eases, extracted the cataract from gouty subjects, and, though a smart attack of the disease followed the operation, the eyes were un- affected, and the sight was well recovered. (Sy- nopsis of the Diseases of the Eve, p- 297.) 1 3. When the patient’s habit is bad, though not af- fected with any definite disorder. 14. When the patient in his youth has often been troubled with attacks of ophthalmy. 15. When he cannot per- ceive the different degrees of light, and correctly deseribe them, while nothing to account for this state can be detected in the eye itself. 16. The result of an operation is always very doubtful, when there is the slightest tendency to hysteria, or hypochondriasis. 17. When the patient is subject to violent mental emotions, mania, &c. 18. When the eye to be operated upon can still discern things, however feebly, a state, which generally produces au involuntary resistance to the necessary measures in the operation. 19. When the cataract is the consequence of a wound, though free from complication. 20. When the patient is in the state of pregnane}’-. 21. W hen one eye has been already destroyed by suppura- tion. 22. And lastly, when one eye has already been operated upon without success by a man, whose professional judgment, skill, and caution, are unquestionable. According to Beer, the result of the operation will be more or less unfavourable} 1. When the patient is affected with gutta, or acne rosacea, not the effect of hard drinking, but rather of scurvy. 2. When evident traces of some general disease of the constitution are present. 3. When the patient has been ill, and is only yet convalescent. 4. When any other disease, though not consti- tutional, is present. f>. When the cataract is ad- herent for a considerable extent to the uvea, or an incurable, though not very severe chrome in- flammatory affection of the eye-lids, or eye-hall, prevails, as, for instance, an habitual inflamma- tion of the Meibomian glands; ectropium ol the