ALVINE CONCRETIONS. Bald. N. Magas, 9b. p. 210; Vogler in Museum der Heilkvnde, 4 b. p. 91; Haller, Collect. Diss. Pract. 3, No. 107.) The eminent J. L. Petit, as is well known, suggested the bold practice of making, under certain circumstances, an incision into the gall- bladder, in order to extract biliary calculi. This proceeding is liable to serious objections, arising not only from the usual difficulty of knowing positively, that there is a calculus in the gall- bladder, but also from the difficulty of ascertain- ing that this viscus is adherent to the perito- neum, without which state of things, the opera- tion would cause an extravasation of bile, ente- ritis, and death. Petit himself, indeed, mentions three cases, in which distention of the gall-bladder was mistaken for an abscess and punctured. In two of these examples, the consequences were fatal, there having been no adhesion between that organ and the peritoneum to prevent the bile from getting amongst the bowels: the other patient was saved by this fortunate circumstance. (See TraiiG des Mai. Chir. T. 1, 262, fe.) How- ever, if a case were to present itself, in which an abscess had formed, and broken, leaving an aper- ture, in which the calculus could be plainly felt, the surgeon would be justified in attempting to make a sufficient opening for its extraction. The symptoms, induced by the lodgment of large concretions in the bowels, are of a formida- ble description : severe pains in the stomach and bowels, diarrhoea, violent vomitings of blood and mucus, a discharge of thin fetid matter from the rectum, a difficulty of voiding the excrement, an afflicting tenesmus, extreme emaciation, and de- bility. That the foregoing account is not at all ex- aggerated may be seen by a perusal of the cases, and remarks published by Mr. C. White, of Manchester, and Mr. Hev, of Leeds. In cases, like that reported by Mr. Hev, (Prucf. Obs. P. 509. Ed. 2 ) where the colon was entirely obstructed, surgeons have been advised to cut mto that bowel, and extract the foreign body. Let the inexperienced admirer of curious feats with the scalpel, however, pause a little, be- fore he ventures to make up his mind upon this matter; and, at all events, let him know, that some serious mistakes have nearly been made, “ upon the very bold operation of cutting out these concretions, when lodged in the colon, proposed by Dr. Monro senior, (See Monro’s Mirbid Anatomi/ of the Human Gullet, See. P. 63.) we think it our duty to state, that the diagnosis is so difficult, that, in one case, where the operation was strongly advised, it turned out upon dissection, that the disease was a scirrhous pi/lorus.” (See Edinb. Med. St Sura. Joum. No. 33, P. 112.) Sometimes, patients ultimately get well by voiding the concretions either by vomiting or stool. Mr. Charles White gives us an account ot some such instances; in one fourteen concre- tions on plum-stones were discharged from the anus; in another, twenty-one similar bodies were ejected from the stomach. When such concretions are not particularly large and indurated, they sometimes admit of expulsion by doses of castor oil, oleaginous clys- ters, &c. But, in other instances, their extrac- tion must be attempted, if their situation in the rectum will permit. It may be done with a pair of lithotomy forceps, or with the sort of scoop used for taking fragments of stone out of the bladder. In this manner, Mr. C. White suc- ceeded in removing two alvine concretions from the rectum, nearly as big as his fist. When the sphincter ani will not allow the concretion to be taken out, the muscle should be divided at its posterior angle. According to Richerand, such a division does not permanently weaken its fibres in a perceptible degree, and its paralysis never originates from this cause. (Nosogr. (Jhir. T. 3, p. 434. Edit. 4.) Mareschal, after a proper dilatation with a scalpel, extracted from the rec- tum an alvine concretion, which weighed two ounces and a half, and was of an ovoid form, its greatest diameter being two inches eight lines, and its smaller one inch seven lines. (See Mem. de l'Acad, de Chir.) A. Petermann, Scrutinium Icteri ex calculis vesiculce Fellis, occasione ctmis ciijusdam singu- lar is. Lips. 1696. Alb. Haller, He Calculis Felleis frequentioribus Obstrvnliones, 4to. Gutt. 1749. T. Coe, A Treatise on B'liary Concretions, 8vo. Land. 1757. Imbert, De Vnriis Calcu- lorum biliarium Specicbus, fyc. 4to. Munsp. 1758. De Vries, Diss. de Calculo biliario, et secliune fellece vesiculce, 4lo. Traj. ad Rhen. 1759. Wal- ther de Concrementis Terrestribus in variis parti- bus corporis humani repertis. Fol. Aerol. 1775 : the most valuable work on the subject at this period. Hochstetter, De Cholelithis Humanis, 4to. Tub. 1763. Virq d’Azyr, Hist, de la Socieid royale de Med. 1779. An exceeding valuable pro- duction, particularly as far as regards the kinds of crystallization observable in hepatic and intestinal calculi. Durande, Memoire sur les pierres bi- liaires, et sur I’efficacite du melange d’ethei' vi- triolique et d'esprit de ierebmthine dans les co- lique hepatique produites par ces concretions, dans vol. 1 ties Mem. de l'Acad, de Dijon, 8vo. p. 199, an. 1783. * S. T. Soemmering, De Con- crementis biliariis Corporis humani, 8vo. Traj. ad Rhen. 1795. B. Branie, Essai sur les Cal- culs biliaires, 4to. Paris, 1803. Fourcroy, Mem. de l'Acad, des S deuces, 1789. dj- Syst. des Con- noissances Chirn. T. 10, p. 53—60. Dr. Bostock, in Nicholson’s Journal, Vol 4, p. 137. Marcel’s Chemical History und Medical Treatment of Cal- culous Disorders, 8vo. Lond. 1817. J. F. Meckel, Handbuch der Pathol. Auat. B. 2, p. 455, c\'c. Leipz. 1818. P. Rubini,Pensieri sulla varia Ori- gine e Nutura tie Carpi calcolosiche vengono talvolta cspulsi dal Tit bo Gastrico Memoria, 4 to. Verona, 1808. James Kennedy, An Account of a Morbid Concretion discharged from the Rectum if the Hu- man Female, and in its Chemical Characters closely resembling Ambergris; with Historical Remarks: see Medico Chir. Journal, Vol. 4, v. 177, fyc. 1817. This paper contains a good deal of useful muiter, deserving the notice of every body wishing to investigate the history and nature if alvine con- cretions. Monro’s Morbid Anatomy of the Hu- man Gullet, Stomach, and Intestines, 8vo. Edinb. 1811. The account of alvine concretions in this work is one of the best and most comprehensive. Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Bezoard, et t alculs Biliaires. Nothing of much consequence in either of these articles. Moscovius, Diss. de Calculorum Animalium conimque in primis biliosorum originc et natura. Bcrol. 1812. Cases in Surgery, by