.593 HEMORRHAGE. now is in this metropolis, than it was formerly when those principles were neither observed, nor comprehended. (See Amputation, Aneurism, Arteries, and Ligature. Ur. Jones seems to consider, that the advan- tage of the retraction of the divided artery within the cellular membrane, is compensated, in the case of the undivided artery, by the speedy and profuse effusion of lymph, which takes place over and round the vessel, at the tied part, and even covers the ligature itself. Another cause of secondary hemorrhage, is the including of other parts in the ligature, together with the artery, by doing which, the division of the inner coats of the vessel may be prevented. In the valuable publication of Dr. Jones’s, to which I have so freely adverted, some secondary hemorrhages are also imputed to the hidden se- paration, or laceration of the recently united parts of an artery, by premature and extraordi- nary exertions of the patient. Hence, he strongly insists on keeping a limb, in which a large artery has been tied, perfectly at rest. I shall conclude these remarks on the liga- ture with a few practical rules. 1. Always tie a large artery, as separately as' possible, but still let the ligature be applied to a part of the vessel, which is close to its natural connexions. Besides the reasons for this practice, already specified, we may observe, that including other substances in the ligature causes immense pain, and a larger part of a wound to remain disunited. The ligature is also apt to become loose, as soon as the substance between it and the artery sloughs, or ulcerates. Sometimes the ligature thus applied, forms a circular furrow in the flesh, and remains a tedious time, incapable of separa- tion. The blood-vessels being organized like other living parts, the healing of a wounded artery can only take place favourably, when that part of the vessel, which is immediately contiguous to the ligature, continues to receive a due supply of blood through its vasa vasorum, which are rami- fications of the collateral arteries. Hence, the disadvantage of putting a ligature round the middle of a portion of an artery, which has been separated from its surrounding connexions; and hence, the utility of making the knot, as closely as possible to that part of the vessel .which lies undisturbed among the surrounding flesh. Small arteries neither allow, nor require, these minute attentions to the mode of tying them. '2. When a divided artery is large, open- mouthed, and quite visible, it is best to take hold of it, and raise its extremity, a little way above the surface of the wound with a pair of forceps. When the vessel is smaller, the tena- culum is the most convenient instrument. 3. While the surgeon holds the vessel in this way, the assistant is to place the noose of the li- gature round it, and tie it according to the above directions. In order that the noose may not rise too high, and even above the mouth of the ar- tery, when it is tightened, the ends of the ligature must be drawn as horizontally as possible, which is best done with the thumbs. A knot is next to be made. 4. As ligatures always operate in wounds as extraneous bodies, and one half of each is suf- ficient for the removal of the noose when de- tached, the other should always be cut off close to the knot, and taken away. As we have explained in the article Amputa- tion, and as we shall notice again in speaking of the Ligature, trials have of late years been made of the practice of cutting off both ends of the ligature close to the knot, with a view of di- minishing, as far as possible, the quantity of ex- traneous substances in the wound. This plan requires the use of very small silk ligatures, in order to be duly judged of. (See Mr. Law- rence's Obs. in Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 156, ct seq.) 5. When a large artery is completely divided, two ligatures, one to the upper, the other to the lower part of the vessel, are commonly ne- cessary, in consequence of the anastomosing branches conveying the blood very readily into the part of the artery most remote from the heart, as soon as the first ligature lias been applied. 6. When a large artery is only punctured, and compression cannot be judiciously tried, the vessel must be first exposed by an incision, and then a double ligature introduced under it, with the aid of an eye-probe. One ligature is to be tied above; the other below the bleeding orifice; with due attention to the principles explained in this article, and that on Aneurism. 7. Ligatures usually come away from the largest artery ever tied, in about a fortnight, and from moderate-sized ones in six or seven days. When they continue attached much beyond the usual period, it is proper to draw them very gently every time the wound is dressed, for the purpose of accelerating their detachment. Great care, however, is requisite in doing this; for, as Dr. Jones remarks, as long as the ligature seems firmly attached, pulling it rather strongly must act, more or less, on the recently cicatrized ex- tremity of the artery, which is not only conti- guous to it, but is still united to that portion of the artery, (the external coat) which detains the ligature. {Jones, p. 162.) In particular individuals, there appears to be an extraordinary tendency to profuse hemor- rhage from very slight injuries. An instance of this kind was lately recorded by Mr. Blag- den, where a fatal hemorrhage arose from the extraction of a tooth. The patient, who was twenty-seven years of age, had had a tooth ex- tracted when a boy, in consequence of which operation, the bleeding continued for twenty-one days, from the socket, before it ceased. A very slight cut on the head was also followed by an alarming bleeding, which could not be stopped by pressure, styptics, or the ligature, so that it became necessary to apply the kali purum, which succeeded. On his having another carious tooth taken out, a profuse bleeding followed, which resisted the effect of styptics, caustic, and every means adopted to stop up the socket. The actual cautery was tried in vain. The dangerous condition of the patient seemed to leave no other resource, but that of tying the carotid artery, which was done by Mr. Brodie. But even this proceeding failed to suppress the hemorrhage., which prpved fatal. (Fid. Med. Chir. Trans. rol. 8, p. 224, London, 1817.) On the mode f stopping hemorrhage from the sockets ol the