CATARACT. m with tiiis cataract, which had not been preceded, or followed by any convulsions; while a much larger number of children with the same kind of cataract had fallen under his notice, where more or less severe blows on the head had been re- ceived. With respect to the convulsions, spoken of bv Schmidt, he also questions, whether they and the cataract might not be owing to the same cause, viz. the preceding inflammation within the ;ye? In children, says Beer, this form of cata act may be known by its light grey, whitish, hough seldom very white, colour, its diminutive ize, and considerable distance from the uvea, :nd by the freedom, with which the iris moves, when no adhesions exist at any points between ..his organ and the cataract, as occasionally hap- iens; a proof of the previous inflammation of he capsule, lens, and neighbouring textures. The eye-sight is never quite impeded, but only luch diminished. On the contrary, in adults, as Oeer has remarked, this cataract invariably pre- rents a dazzling white hue, and only a few points f it are of a smutty yellowish white colour, dience the case has been sometimes termed the yp*um cataract. It is not convex, but rather at; it dues not approach the iris; and, when •ee from adhesions to the uvea, which are more kely to happen in adults, it has no effect on the lotion of the iris. Vision is generally entirely st, with the exception of the power of discern- g the light, and, even this faculty is some- mes destroyed, in consequence of the previous olence done to the eye, whereby not merely e lens and its capsule, but also the retina, ive suffered. According to Beer, one of the rarest varieties the capsulo-tenlicular cataract is that accom- nied with a cyst of purulent matter. It is dicated by a deep lemon-colour, very slow otion of the iris, manifest abolition of the pos- rior chamber, slight convexity of the iris, tri- al perception of light, and the weak, unhealthy nstitution of the patient. The purulent cyst, lich sometimes contains a very fetid matter, d was therefore called by Schiferli the putrid taruct. (Theoretisch-Praltische AhhandLiaig sr den Grauen Sratrr, 8m Jena, and Lcipz. 97,) may sometimes be taken out, without ng broken, together with the whole capsule of : lens, with the aid of the forceps, or cata- ■t-tenaculum, as was first correctly remarked Professor Schmidt. In one single example, er found the cyst of matter between the lens 1 the anterior portion of its capsule. Mr. avers has likewise seen an example of sup- •ation within the capsule, which projected ough the pupil in a globular form, and was .•d with pus. The case happened in a lad, I had been preceded by a severe blow on the ■. (Synapsis oj the Diseases of the Eye, p. 206.) fhe sixth, and last variety of the capsulo-len- dar cataract, mentioned by beer, is the well- •wn case, described by the French under the ie of eaturacte barret, the bar-cataract, and Schmidt under the appellation of the cataract h a girth or time. The case, says Beer, is one he least frequent. The diagnosis is easy; behind the diminished, more or less angular '•1, the cataract can be plainly seen, to which ttached, either in a more or less perpendicu- 01‘ horizontal direction, a chalk-white, ge- nerally very shining, and thickish kind of bar, or girth, which is closely adherent at both its extremities to the pupillary margin of the uvea, and sometimes reaches, but often only on one side, more or less towards the ciliary processes. ’The iris is therefore completely motionless, the uvea not being merely adherent to the substance forming what is termed the bar, or girth, but also closely connected with the whole front por- tion of the capsule. The perception of light is either very indistinct, or quite lost, and, not un, frequently, the globe of the eye is somewhat smaller, than natural. Beer says, that be has never met with this variety of cataract, except after violent internal inflammation of the eye. He describes the substance, composing the Oar, or girth, as being of various consistence, and sometimes firm and almost cartilaginous. In two cataracts of this sort, which he extracted from a boy twelve years of age, be found the bar, strictly speaking, ossified, and the capsule, which was nearly cartilaginous, was adherent to a very small, firm-nucleus of the lens, though they were yet capable of separation. In a dead subject, Beer also examined such a cataract, in which the outer end of the bar scarcely extended to the greater ring of the uvea, but the inner end reached .over the ciliary processes to the ciliary ligament, from which latter part it was inseparable. (Ltlux von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 302.) of SPURIOUS CATARACTS. The most frequent, according to Beer, is what he names the lymph-cataract. It is, without ex-* ception, the effect of an inflammation, which is chiefly situated in the iris, the lens, and its cap- sule. Hence, it is frequently combined with a genuine cataract. The nature of the disease may be known from the patient’s account, that the present blindness has been preceded by a painful tedious affection of his eye and head; and- from an examination of the eye itself, in which the pupil will be found more or less diminished and angular; the iris either perfectly motionless, op nearly so ; the eyesight, and even sometimes the perception of light, more or less impeded, or lost, and this not merely in proportion to the quantity of lymph observable immediately behind the pupil, but also in proportion to other morbid effects produced in the organ by inflammation. Lastly, the surgeon may notice directly behind the pupil a plastic lymph, either in the form of a delicate kind of net-work, or of a thick web of a snow- white colour. Sometimes, in this variety of spurious cataract, though very little coagulating lymph appears upon the anterior portion of the capsule of the lens, and what is effused, as well as the lens itself) is almost clear and transparent, yet, the eyesight is considerably impaired ; and, on more careful examination of the pupil, some- thing of a dark-brown colpur is perceived, which often projects, at several points behind the pupil- lary edge of the iris, a good way towards the centre of the pupil. In this substance, one may discern, with a good magnifying glass, new vessels extending from those of the uvea, and formed by the previbus inflammation, by means of which vessels, this mass, and the delicate layer of lymph, are connected with the capsule of the lens. According to Beer’s sentiments, it is only ,tlijj