AMAUROSIS. soon rendered unfit for the performance of its functions. Secondly; because, in the majority of examples, important changes immediately take place in the organization of the whole eye, which are particularly difficult of removal, when the nervous textures are affected. Thirdly; because it is impossible to know, whether morbid changes may not already exist in the retina, or course of the optic nerve. In the treatment, Beer, who pieces implicit re- liance upon the above statement of causes, is an advocate for reproducing, as quickly as possible, the original disease, and, if that cannot be done, he thinks some artificial disease should be formed in lieu of it. For these purposes, he often em- ploys blisters, and friction with antimonial oint- ment. What, however, is likely to be ridiculed in this country, his treatment, where amaurosis happens to follow the cure of itch, consists in inoculating the poor patient again with psoric in- fection, as if it were not more tolerable to remain blind than live perpetually scourged with the other disorder; for the Professor’s theory leaves us uninformed of the circumstances, under which thepatient whose sight is restored by thisexpedient, could ever venture to have a sound skin again, without the risk of a fresh attack upon his eyes. But, it seems even from Beer’s account, that the patient’s subjecting himself to the itch will not always cure his eyes; for, says Beer, when this method fails, friction with antimonial ointment should be tried. When amaurosis follows the Jiealing of old sores, Beer recommends the formation of them again by applying to the cicatrix strong mustard cataplasms, and the muriate of soda; and, if the new ulcers cannot be made to discharge properly, lie praises the application of issues to the calves of the legs, and, in urgent cases, to the thighs. These plans are to be aided by such medicines, as .act specifically upon the skin, like antimonials, especially the sulphur auratum antimonii: Beer also speaks favourably of sulphur baths; and, in cases complicated with debility, administers tonics, particularly the calamus arom^ticus and bark. (See Lthre von den Augenkr. B. 2. p. 556—0'3.) 4. Of amaurosis, as the immediate consequence nf a violent fit of anger, which has been kept under with difficulty. This case, which is described by Professor Beer as one of the most uncommon forms of amaurosis, begins at once with a very consider- able enlargement of the pupil, without any sen- sible angles in the margin of this opening, but with complete immobility of the iris; a thick plexus of dilated blood-vessels in the conjunctiva; a red yellowish colour of the whole sclerotica; and, usually, a greater or lesser degree of.a sud- denly formed jaundice ; a slight turbidness of the aqueous humour, and complete loss of sight in one, or both eyes, yet without all sensibility to light being abolished. It is not uncommon for the case to be combined with hemiplegia, in which event, only one eye, namely, that on the paralytic side, is entirely blind, while the other is simply weakened; or there are merely signs of paralysis observable in the parts around the eyes, the muscles of the face, or even in organs at a greater distance from the eyes, in which event, vision is impeded in both eyes. In amaurosis in general, there is often a pecu- liarity of constitution clearly concerned in the production of the disease, and this seems here to be the case; for, says Beer, “ though I have not met with many examples of the present kind, and have had the treatment of still fewer, the patients, whom I have seen, were all very choleric, and bilious, and had dark-brown or almost black eyes. In every case, the amaurosis began, and was formed in a moment, after the patient had been affected with violent anger, which was repressed with great difficulty, to which gusts of passion he was evidently very subject. Yet (adds Beer), it should be remarked, that all these patients had been immoderately exerting their eyes in various kinds of employment, a little while previously to the attack.” The few opportunities, which Beer has had of seeing this form of amaurosis, incline him to re- gard the prognosis as very uncertain, especially when professional aid is delayed for some days or weeks, after the commencement of the blindness. Beer represents the treatment as liable to equal uncertainty : twice he succeeded in effecting an immediate partial restoration of sight, by giving a gentle emetic. In three other cases, where he had not been consulted directly after the begin- ning of the attack, the emetic plan had no effect. In the two first cases, vision was re-established by long perseverance in the exhibition of arnica, joined with camphor, and in the use of sulphurous baths, by which means the hemiplegia was also re- moved. The other three patients however con- tinued completely blind; nor could Beer render them any benefit, though he tried the whole cata- logue ofantiparalytics and antispnsmodics. (Le/ire von den Augenkr. B. 2. p 563—65.) 5. Of the amaurosis, which follows the stoppage of a catarrh, with collection of mucus awl matter in the frontal sinus. Beer has bad as yet the management of only three cases of this species of amaurosis, which appears to be one of the least frequent forms of the disorder: in each instance, it was indicated by the following characteristic phenomena; though he acknowledges, that, in the first example which occurred, he was very uncertain about the diag- nosis. Directly after the sudden stoppage of a violent catarrh, the patient experiences an op- pressive, dull, continually increasing pain about the root of the nose and frontal sinuses, and, at the same time, a considerable amaurotic weak- ness of sight takes place, either in one or both eyes, attended with various luminous appear- ances ; with a contracted, perfectly round, but palish-black pupil; complete immobility of the iris; a deviation of one eye from the axis of sight, when only one is affected; and of both eyes, when the affection extends to both of them. Hence, when the two eyes are open, the patient sees ob- jects double. The case is also attended with weak- ness of the upper eye-lid; great dryness of the nose ; a constant "sensation as if the nostrils were filled with dust; reiterated fits of sneezing come on, during which ugly transient luminous forms suddenly and rapidly present themselves before the eyes. When the disease is not understood, or it is neglected, the cyc-ballat lengthprotrudes from the orbit outwards and downwards, in which stale the pain in the frontal sinuses becomes irregular, but