118 ANEURISM. aneurism subsequent to dilatation, See Memnria sulla Legalura delle principal! Arterie degli Arti, con ana Appendice all ’ Opera sull ’ Aneurisma, /hi. Pavia, 1817, or lhe Treatise on Aneurism, turns!• by Wishart, Ed. 2, p. 119, Edinb. 1819. In this manner, no doubt, Scarpa would account for the presence of lamellated coagula in the case reported by Mr. A. Burns, (0-1 Diseases of the Heart, p. 306,) though the latter gentleman himself, for reasons already detailed in the fore- going pages, did not regard the expansion of all the coats of the artery, as corresponding to the mor- bid dilatation implied by Scarpa. Thus Scarpa further agrees with other modern writers, in admitting the possibility of aneurism becoming ingrafted, as it were, in one of these unnatural dilatations, more than one example of which combination were indeed recited in his first work. In that treatise, he has asserted, that what he calls morbid dilatation, always extends to the whole circumference of the vessel. But, this point seems from the appendix to be renounced, as he now observes, “ Where the morbid dilata- tion is partial, or on one side of the artery, like a thimble, (for, very frequently, even in the arch of the aorta, this partial dilatation does not exceed the size of half a bean,) the entrance for the blood into this capsule is as large as the bottom of the sac.” (Transl. by Wishart, p. 120, Erl. 2.) According to Scarpa, where the morbid dilata- tion occupies the whole circumference of the arterial tube, the tumor always retains a cylindri- cal or oval form ; and, if situated in such man- ner, that it can be compressed, it yields very readily to pressure, and almost disappears; and, after death, is found much smaller, than during life. On the contrary, aneurism, whether pre- ceded by dilatation, or not, constantly originates from one side of the ruptured artery. The entrance for the blood is small, compared with the size of the fundus of the sac; the tumor assumes an irregular shape; yields with dif- ficulty to pressure ; retains nearly the same size in the dead, that it had in the living body; and, its sac, instead of becoming thinner as the swell- ing enlarges, like the coats of an artery do, when they are simply affected with dilatation, attains greater thickness, the larger the aneurism grows. These essential differences, between the two dis- eases, are illustrated by an interesting case, met with by Professor Vacca. where a patient died with an aneurism of one subclavian artery, and a simple morbid dilatation of the whole circumference of the other. (See Sprtvgel, Storia delle Operaz. di Chir. Trad. Ital. Parte 2, p. 294 ) When these two different affections are situ- ated in the thorax, or abdomen, it is impossible to discriminate them from each other before death. The symptoms, occasioned by the pres- sure of the tumor on the viscera, must be nearly the same, whether caused by a morbid dilatation, or an aneurism. The means for retarding their fatal termination is also the same in both forms of the disease. With regard to the possibility of cure, however, Scarpa says, that there is great dif- ference; for, when the case is an internal aneurism, there may be some slight hope of a radical cure by the efforts of nature and art, which hope can never be entertained in a case of morbid dilata- tion ; a fact, which is accounted for by no lamina- ted coagula being deposited in the latter disease. (On Aneurism, transl. by Wishart, p. 124, Ed. 2.) A great deal of the latter statement coincides with the observations of Mr. Hodgson, who par- ticularly notices, that he has never met with lamellated coagula in such sacs, as consist either in a general, or partial dilatation of the coats of the vessel. (On Diseases of Arteries, <?0c. p 82.) Whether this ever takes place in such cases may still be a question, because if Profes- sor Naegele has given a correct description of the aneurism of the abdominal aorta, already mentioned, which aneurism was of large size, and consisted of a dilatation of all the coats of the vessel, there was in this rare example a large quantity of these layers of coagulated blood. Yet, whether the professor actually means the fibrine, arranged in laminae, or only common coagulated blood, which, as every one knows, maybe found either in the cysts of dilated, or of ruptured arteries, may admit of doubt. The statement, therefore, made by Hodgson and Scarpa, may not be contrary to what was really seen by Naegele and Ackermann. The follow- ing case, however, observed by Laennec and quoted by a modern writer, must (if correctly reported,) afford not only an unequivocal speci- men of aneurism by dilatation of all the coats of the aorta, but, of laminated coagula within its cavity. *•' In homine enim, qui repente sub atrocissimis pectoris doloribus corruit, prseter aortum adscendentem in aneurysma ita expan- sam, ut neonati infantis caput sequaret, cystidem aneurismaticam immediate supra arterite cccliacae ortam magnitudine nucis jugiandis invenit, quae luculenier ostendit sinum communicantem cum arteriae cylindro per foramen magnitudine amyg- dalae, diametro totius arteriae iilo loco non mu- tato. Saccus hie cultro anatomico accurate ac subtiliter subjectus, eamdem structuram, easdem ostendit membranas, quibus gaudebat arteria, e cujus latere excreverat; caeterum massis grw- mosis, sive fbrosis erat impletus. Inde igitur patet, hoc aneurysma sacciforme et laterali et partiali quidem tunicarum aorta? dilatatione ortum esse.” (J. H. G. Ehrhardt, De Aneurysmate Aortm, p. 13,4(o. Lips. 1820.) From what has been stated, it appears then, that there is only one principal point of differ- ence between Scarpa and other writers, and this resolves itself into the question, whether a dila- tation of an artery, arising at one particular side of the vessel, and lined by its internal coat, ought not to be regarded as an aneurism, because its communication with the tube of the artery is more capacious, than what exists in other aneu- risms, where the inner coat has given way, and because it rarely (perhaps never) contains lami- nated coagula, unless fissures should happen to exist at some points of the inner arterial tunic thus expanded ? The greater number of aneurisms increase gradually, and sooner or later incline to the side, on which the least resistance is experienced. De Haen mentions an aneurism of the aorta, which first made its appearance between the second and third ribs of the left side, and, which instead of growing larger, as is usual, subsided, and could neither be seen, nor felt, for more than a month before the patient s decease, although, on opening the body, a tumour of the arch of the aorta was found, three times as