! 15 5 VENEREAL DISEASE. ; applications thrice a day, will not be found ) often, particularly, when they are in the an of an ointment. When the venereal nature of a chancre is moved, the sore frequently becomes stationary, which case Mr. Hunter observes, that new .positions have been acquired, and the quan- vy of disease in the part has been increased, hen chancres are only stationary, Mr. Hunter vs, they may often be cured, by touching them ightly with the lunar caustic. In these cases, cicatrization, seems possible, till thecontami- . ted surface, or the new flesh, which grows on it surface, has either been destroyed or altered, hen sores are situated under the prepuce, -.ere they are concealed by a phymosis, some lollient, or gently astringent lotion, should >: • queritly be injected under the fore-skin, so as wash out any matter, which might otherwise ijge there, and cause additional irritation. (.Contrary to the doctrines, which the facts of i idem experience have now fully established, r. Hunter believed, that mercury should he ven in every case of chancre, however slight, :1 even when it has been destroyed by caustic, other means, on its very first appearance, l ie remedy, he says, should be continued for me time after the chancre has healed, in order hinder the venereal disposition from forming. :2rewefind even Hunter himself falling into nne inconsistencies ; for, in other parts of his :rk, he seems to approve of the principle of ing mercury only when actual and visible dis- s ;e exists, because it cannot cure the disposi- n to it, even if it exists. Now, though the a mere is cured, no further absorption of the ' us from it is possible, and whatever disposition the disease can arise frorq absorption, must ve already been formed, and, therefore, can- : t be prevented, and, according to Mr. Hun- ’s own theory, the virus has been long ago relied from the system, together with some of . excretions, mercury is recommended with : view of protecting the constitution. How- ;r, if Mr. Hunter’s explanations are not alto- t ther satisfactory on this part of the subject, relieve the fault is in his theory, because, in ;es where mercury is deemed advisable, gene- experience appears to sanction the practice of itinuing its use for some time after the chan- : is perfectly healed. Yet, many exceptions to s rule present themselves; for, if a chancre is ge, and very long in healing, its syphilitic trader is generally extinct a good while be- te cicatrization is completed, and perseverance mercury under these circumstances would be :h an absurd and a dangerous practice, i Hence, in a great measure, the cause of the nu- rous instances of the mercurial disease, as Mr. rthias has named it, and, which, in former days, far more mischief, than syphilis itself. (Seeyin quiry into the History and Nature of the sease, produced in the Human Constitution ‘theUse of Mercury, 3 d Ed. 8 vo. Loiul. 1816.) Is part of the subject is noticed by Mr. Hun- , who states, that, in very large chancres, it y not always be necessary to continue either ! -xternal or internal administration of mer- y fjH the sore is healed; for, the venereal ion is just as soon destroyed in a large chancre, in a small one, since every part of the l 1 it is sore is equally affected by the medicine, and, of course, cured with equal expedition. But, in regard to cicatrization, circumstances arc dif- ferent, because a large sore is longer, than a small one, in becoming covered with skin. Hence, according to Mr. Hunter, a large chan- cre may be deprived of its venereal action, long before it has healed; while, on the other hand, a small one may heal before the syphilitic affec- tion has been destroyed. In the latter case, he represents it as most prudent, both on account of the chancre and constitution, to continue the employment of mercury a little while after the sore is healed; advice, which, as I have already stated, is at variance with certain parts of his own theory, however well justified it may be by experience. As Mr. Hunter has explained, chancres both in men and women, often acquire, during the treat- ment, new dispositions, which are of various kinds, some retarding the cure, and leaving the parts in an indolent thickened state, after the cure is ac- complished. In other instances, a new disposition arises, which utterly prevents the parts from healing, and often produces a much worse dis- ease than that from which it originated. Such new dispositions may lead to the growth of tu- mors. They are more frequent in men than women, and generally occur only when the in- flammation has been violent from some pecu- liarity of the parts, or constitution. They have sometimes been considered as cancerous. Among the diseases in question, Mr. Hunter notices those continued, and often increased in- flammations, suppurations, and ulcerations, which become diffused through the whole prepuce, and, also, along the common skin of the penis, which becomes of a purple hue, attended with such a general thickening of the cellular membrane, as makes the whole organ appear considerably en- larged. The same writer observes, that the ulceration on the inside of the prepuce will some- times increase, and run between the skin and the body of the penis, and eat holes through differ- ent places, till the whole is reduced to a number of ragged sores. The glans often shares the same fate, till more or less of it is gone. Fre- quently, the urethra in this situation is wholly destroyed by ulceration, and the urine is dis- charged some way farther back. The ulcera- tion, if unchecked, at length destroys all the parts. In this acute case, prompt relief is demanded ; but, often the proper mode of treat- ment cannot be at once determined, owing to our ignorance, in respect to the exact nature of the peculiar cause of the disease. Mr. Hunter states, that the decoction of sarsaparilla is often of service, when given in large quantities; and that the extract of hemlock and sea-bathing are sometimes capable of effecting a cure. Ac- cording to my own experience, the omission of mercury is here the most essential thing. Sometimes after a chancre has healed, the cicatrix breaks out again, and puts on the appear- ances of the preceding sore. Occasionally, similar diseases break out in different places from that of the cicatrix. Mr. Hunter believes, that they differ from a chancre in generally not spreading so fast, nor so far ; in not being so painful, nor so much inflamed ; in not having such hard bases as venereal sores have; and in not producing 4 E 2