CANCER. ‘275 T 2 rmeil the truth of this opinion, though there are nany practitioners, who continue to think highly f the efficacy of this mineral in certain forms of isease, which have sometimes been classed with ancer, and in many cases of lupus, and malignant leers of the tongue, and other parts, it may ‘ally possess greater claims to further trial, than rhaps any other medicine, yet suggested It lquestionably cures numerous ill-looking sores, i the face, lips, and tongue, and is one of the st remedies for lupus. Mr. Hill observes: Experience has furnished me with some sub- mtial reasons for considering arsenic as a me- :ine of considerable merit, both with regard to Inal cancer and scirrhus, which may one day rminate in that horrible species of ulcer; and hough I cannot as yet say it will remove the e, or cure the other, as ceitainly and safely as •reury commonly does a syphilitic swelling, or »n sore, yet, it will, in a great majority of cases, ard the progress of the true scirrhous tumor, 1 often prevent its becoming cancer. In some, las appeared to dissipate such swellings com- tely.” (See Edinb. Med. and Surgicai Journ. I. ri, p. 5S.) Mercury, in conjunction with decoctions of tiacum, sarsaparilla, &c. has been recom- nded ; but, as Mr. J. Burns remarks, no fact nore certainly ascertained, than that mercury ays exasperates the disease, especially, when he ulcerated state. . ulphate of copper has been tried ; but, at ;ent, it retains no character, as a remedy cancer. The same may be said of muriated tes. 'he carbonate (rust) of iron was particularly mmended by Mr. Carmichael. Besides the onate of iron, he sometimes prescribed the ate of iron and potass, and the phosphate, phosphate, and suboxyphosphate of the metal, le constitutions can bear these preparations in small quantities ; they affect most patients constipation, and many with headach and mea. These circumstances, therefore, must .tended to in regulating the dose. The above .eman has seldom given less than thirty is, in divided doses, in a day, or exceeded . He prefers the suboxyphosphate for in- l use, and states, that it answers best in doses, frequently repeated. It should be ed with white of egg, have a little pure fixed added, and then be made into pills with ered liquorice. Aloes is recommended for tmoval of costiveness. When half a grain nbined with a pill, containing four grains bonate of iron, and taken thrice a day, the ipation will be obviated. When the internal ’ iron brings on headach, difficult respiration, -•k, sometimes full pulse, which isalsogener- il lard and wiry, excessive languor, lassitude, tnd such symptoms become alarming, the 5 to be left off, and four grains of camphor every fifth hour. the same time, that preparations of iron internally administered, Mr. Carmichael yed externally, for ulcerated cancers, the | tate, phosphate, oxyphosphate, and arseni- iron, blended with water, to the consistence hm paste, which was applied once every r-four hours. To occult cancers, the same *4 man applied a solution of the sulphate of iron, to lbj of water. The acetate of iron, di- luted with eight or ten times its weight of water, was also used. These lotions were put on the part affected by means of folded linen, wet in them, and covered with a piece of oiled silk to prevent injury of the clothes. (See An Essay on the eff ects of the Carbonate and other preparations of iron upon Cancer} fi-c. by R. Carmichael, °d Ed. Son. Dublin, 1808.) Many remedies have acquired celebrity in cases of cancer, because very bad and malignant diseases, only supposed to be cancers, have got well, under their use. Such is probably the case with the carbonate of iron. The only mode of treatment, which Mr. Pear- son has ever seen do any particular benefit to cancer, is that of keeping the patient on a diet, barely sufficient for the support of life, such as barley-water alone, tea, &c. Patients, with can- cers, receive considerable benefit from being kept strictly on a milk diet. The old surgeons commonly dressed cancerous sores, with narcotic applications. Vcsalius used cloths, dipped in the juice of thesolanum; whilst others employed it mixed with oil of roses, and preparations of lead, and antimony. Others had recourse to the hyoseiamus; but, of late, cicuta poultices have superseded most other narcotic applications} and, in many cases, as Mr. J. Burns observes, they have undoubtedly abated pain, and diminished fetor; but this is all which can rea- sonably be expected; and even this expectation will not always be realized. This gentleman thinks carrot poultices better, than those of hem- lock, as they produce as much ease, and more powerfully diminish the fetor. The fetor of cancers having been thought tp resemble that of the sulphuret of potash, (liver of sulphur) and the oxygenated muriatic acid being the best agent for decomposing, and destroying such smell, it has been recom- mended, as an application to cancerous sores. It may correct the fetor ; but, it will never ac- complish a cure. Carbonic acid has been said not only to correct the fetor, but, in some instances, completely to cure the disease. It was long ago proposed, says Mr. J. Burns, by Peyrille, and was again brought forward by Dr. Ewart. Experience, however, has not shewn, that the efficacy of carbonic acid, in cases of can- cer, is very great. Fourcroy remarks : “ After the first applications, the cancerous sore appear^ to assume a more favourable aspect; the sanies, which flows from it, becomes whiter, thicker, and purer, and the flesh has a redder and fresher colour; but, these flattering appearances are deceitful, nor do they continue long, for the sore speedily returns to its former state, and its progress goes on, as before the application.” The best method of applying carbonic acid is, by means of a bladr der, the mouth of which is fastened round the sore, with adhesive plaster. The air is introduced by a pipe, inserted- at the other end. Sometimes the fermenting poultice is employed. Digitalis, as a local application, is entitled to about as much confidence as cicuta. Tar ointment, gastric juice, absorbent powders, &c. have been tried ; but, without any evident good. (See J. Bums on Inflammation, VoL 2.) Mr. Fearon rejected all internal remedies, as inefficient in the treatment of cancer, and, in thfc