WOUNDS. 1213 f the containing and contained parts against ach other, and the useful effect of the quickly- rising adhesive inflammation, in all penetrating ■ounds of the belly, complicated with injuries of ie viscera, we are not to suppose, that extra- asation never happens; but only that it is much ;ss frequent, than has been commonly supposed. Ir. Travers, with much laudable industry, has ndeavoured to trace more minutely, than any ireceding writer, the, particular circumstances, mder which effusions in the abdomen are likely :>r unlikely to happen. “ It being admitted says he) that there are cases, in which effusion Ices take place, it is easy to conceive circum- tances, which must considerably influence this went. If, for example, the stomach and bowels >e in a state of emptiness, the nausea, which follows the injury, will maintain that state. If : the extent of the wound be considerable, the matter will more readily pass through the wound, '. .han along the canal. A wound of the same dimensions in the small and large intestines, will |j more readily evacuate the former, than the latter, oecause it bears a larger proportion to the calibre, iIncised and punctured wounds admit of the ad- hesion of the cut edges, or the eversion of the internal coat of the gut, so as to be in many in- stances actually obliterated ; whereas, lacerated, or ulcerated openings, do not admit of these salutary processes. Again, in a transverse section of the bowel, contraction of the circular fibre i closes the wound, whereas in a longitudinal ^section, the contraction of this fibre enlarges it. Such (says Mr. Travers) are the circum- stances, which combined, in a greater or less i degree, increase or diminish the tendency to effusion.” [On Injuries of Intestines, S(C. p. 13—14.) After the details of some experiments and cases, the preceding author makes, among other conclusions, the following: 1. That effusion is not an ordinary conse- quence of penetrating wounds. 2. That if the gut be full and the wound ex- tensive, the surrounding pressure is overcome, by the natural action of the bowel tending to the expulsion of its contents. 8. That, if food has not recently been taken, and the wound amounts to a division of the gut, or nearly so, the eversion and contraction of the orifice of the tube prevent effusion. 4. That if the canal be empty at the time of the wound, no subsequest state of the bowel will cause effusion, because the supervening inflam- mation agglutinates the surrounding surfaces, and forms a circumscribed sac; nor can effusion take place from a bowel at the moment full, provided it retains a certain portion of its cylinder entire, the wound not amounting nearly to a semidivision cf the tube, for then the eversion and contraction are too partial to prevent an extravasation. 5. That, when however air has escaped from the bowel, or blood has been extravasated in quantity within the abdomen at the time of the injury, the resistance, made to effusion, will be less effectual, although the parietal pressure is the same, as such fluids will yield more readily, than the solids naturally in contadt. (P. 25—26, 100.) 6. That, though extravasation is not common in penetrating wounds, it follows more generally in cases, where the bowel is ruptured by blows, or falls upon the belly, while the integuments continue unwounded. (P. 36.) 7. That when the bowels are perforated by ulceration, there is more tendency to effusion, than in cases of wounds. (P. 38, &c.) Mr. Travers attempts to explain the reason' of the greater tendency to effusion, in cases of intestine burst'by violence, than in those of ul- ceration, “ by the difference in the nature of the injury, which the bowel sustains, when perforated by a sword or bullet, as in the one case, or burst or ulcerated in the other. A rupture by concus- sion could only take place under a distended state of the bowel, a condition most favourable to effusion, and from the texture of the part, a rup- ture, so produced, would seldom be of limited extent. The process of ulceration, by which an aperture is formed, commences in the internal coat of the bowel, which has always incurred a more extensive lesion, than the peritoneal cover- ing. The puncture, or cut, is merely a solution of continuity in a point, or line; the ulcerated wound is an actual loss of substance. The con- sequence of this difference is, that, while the former, if small, is glued up by the effusion from the cut vessels, or, if large, is nearly obliterated, by the full eversion of the villous coat, the latter is a permanent orifice.” (P. 46.) How much Mr. Travers and Mr. John Bell differ in opinion, upon these latter points, will appear from the following passage : after advert- ing to the adhesion, which takes place between the viscera and the peritoneum, under a variety of circumstances attending disease, Mr. John Bell observes : “ This it is, which makes the chief difference, in point of danger, betwixt an ulcer- ated and a wounded intestine; for, in a wound, there is, as we should suppose, no time for ad- hesion, nothing to keep the parts in contact, no cause, by which the adhesion might be produced. But, in an ulcer, there is a slow disease, tedious inflammation, adhesion first, and abscess, and bursting afterwards; sometimes a fistula remains discharging feces, and sometimes there is a per- fect cure. If a nutshell, a large coin, a bone, or any dangerous thing be swallowed, it stops in the stomach, causing swelling and dreadful pain; at last, a hard firm tumour appears, and then it suppurates, bursts, the bowel opens, the food is discharged at every meal, till the fistula gradually lessens, and heals at last. But, where the sto- mach is cut with a broad wound of a sabre, the blood from the wounded epiploic vessels, or the food itself, too often pours out into theabdomen.and the patient dies, &c.” [Discourses on Wounds, p. 321, edit. 3.) The author afterwards pro- ceeds to explain, how in cases of penetrating wounds, the compact state of the containing and contained parts, and the incessant and equable pressure, which the viscera sustain, frequently hinder effusion. Which of these gentlemen is most correct,. I cannot pretend to determine, and whether Mr. Travers’s cases are deviations from what is most common, can only be decided by a comparative examination of a greater number of facts. When the intestines ulcerate, and thus rid themselves of foreign bodies, the general tenor of the cases on record undoubtedly affords us little reason to be apprehensive of extravasation. Yet, with rc-