URETHRA. 1081 pass, till these fibres are relaxed by elongating the whole canal. “ A spasmodic stricture is in reality a con- traction of a small portion of the longitudinal muscular fibres, while the rest are relaxed; and as this may take place either all round, or upon any one side, it explains what is met with in practice, and could not before be satisfactorily accounted for; the mark, or impression of a stricture sometimes forming a circular depression upon the bougie; at other times, only on one side. “ A permanent stricture is that contraction of the canal, which takes place in consequence of coagulablc lymph being exuded between the the fasciculi of muscula r fibres, and upon the internal membrane, in different quantities, ac- cording to circumstances; and, in the same proportion, diminishing the passage for the urine at that part, or completely closing it up.” (Sir Everard Home in Phil. Trans. 1820, and Pract. Obs. on Strictures, Vol. 3, p. 2b’, £(C. 8 vo. Loncl. 1821.) For a particular detail of the arguments and remarks, urged against the doctrine of the ure- thra being a tube, capable of having its diameter suddenly lessened at every point by the contrac- tion of muscular fibres, I must refer to the wri- tings of Mr. C. Bell and Mr. Shaw, whose state- ments, indeed, have been noticed in my intro- ductory work. (See First Lines of the Prac- tice of Surgery, cd. 4, Vol. 2.) In all obstructions of the urethra, Mr. Hunter remarks, that the stream of water becomes small in proportion to the stoppage; but, though this symptom is probably the first, it is not always observed by the patient. In some instances, the water is voided only by drops, and then it can- not escape notice. In other cases, the stream of urine is forked, or scattered. Under such cir- cumstances, Mr. blunter recommends the pass- age to be examined'with a bougie; and, if one of a common size can be readily introduced, the difficulty of voiding the urine is likely to depend on a diseased enlargement of the prostate gland, which should, therefore, be examined. See Pro- state Gland. The spasmodic stricture may be known by its being only of temporary duration. This kind of case, and more particularly the permanent stric- ture, are generally attended with a gleet. The latter complaint is often for a long while sus- pected as being the only one, and the surgeon finds all his efforts, to effect a cure, fruitless. In diseases of the urethra, and also of the pro- state gland and bladder, there is commonly an uneasiness about the perinreum, anus, and lower part of the abdomen. (Hunter.) The first progress of the contraction is, in general, very slow; but, when once it has so far increased, that the longitudinal fibres are not wholly relaxed by the force of the urine, its sub- sequent advances are more rapid, and new sym- ptoms are perceived. The urine is voided more frequently, does not pass without a considerable effort, attended with pain, and a straining sensa- tion continues, after the bladder is emptied. If me patient accidentally catches cold, drinks a g ass of spirituous liquor, acid beverage, or punch, commits an excess in drinking wine, or removes quickly from a warm to a cold tempera- ture, the urine will, perhaps, pass only in drops, or be entirely obstructed. These causes induce, in the longitudinal fibres at the contracted part, a spasmodic action, by which it is closed. Cold, externally applied to the body, has so great an effect upon a spasmodic stricture, that a patient, who can make water without the smallest difficulty in a warm room, is often quite unable to void a drop, on making the attempt in the open air. However, on returning to a warm room, and sitting down a little while, he becomes able again to expel his urine. The symptoms of a stric- ture are more frequent in persons, who lead a sedentary life, than in others, whose pursuits are active. Strictures in the urethra, being attended with a discharge and pain in making water, especially after any excess, are frequently regarded and treated as a gonorrhoea. These two symptoms often come on a few hours after connexion with women; the degree of inflammation is very slight; the discharge is the first symptom, and is more violent at the commencement, than at any other period. The inflammation subsides in a few days, leaving only the discharge, which also frequently disappears in five or six days, whether any means are employed or not for its removal. (Home.) , What renders a stricture particularly apt to be mistaken for a gonorrhoea, is the circumstance that, in both diseases, the pain in making water is experienced about an inch and a half from the orifice of the glans penis. In a more advanced stage, the part of the urethra, which is the seat of stricture, is always much narrower, than the rest of the canal. The stricture is permanent, being combined with a thickening of structure, whereby the diameter of the diseased part of the passage is lessened. However, the diameter of the affected portion of the canal even now varies, according as the spasm and projection of the longitudinal fibres, the spas- modic action of the muscles about the perinaeum, and the effects of inflammation, contribute more or less to a temporary increase of the obstruc- tion. In the language of Sir Everard Home, the case is now both a permanent stricture, and a spasmodic one; permanent, because the dis- eased part of the urethra is always narrower, than the rest of this passage; and spasmodic, inasmuch as the stricture may be rendered still more contracted by spasm affecting the muscular structure, adjoining the disease. In the con- tracted state, the passage is closed up ; in the relaxed, the urine can pass through it in a small stream. The spasmodic contraction must act with con- siderable force, since the urine cannot even pass In a small stream, and a.small bougie, which, in a relaxed state of the urethra, met with no resist- ance, can now he scarcely introduced at all. Also, if the bougie be allowed to remain for a few minutes in the stricture, it is not unlrequently grasped so tightly by the spasmodic contraction, that, when an attempt is made to withdraw it, some force is requisite to succeed. rl ho bougie, when examined, seems as if it had had an im- pression made round it by a piece of packthread. (Home.)