28 AMAUROSIS. l>loyed in any way whatsoever. A woman, wlio (fis this author acquaints us) had lost her sight, in consequence of a sudden suppression of the menses, did not recover it again till three months after the return of the menstrual discharge, not- withstanding every sort of evacuation was tried. He also tells us of another woman, who had been blind half a year, and did not menstruate, and to whose external parts of generation leeches were several times applied. As often as the leeches were put on (says Richter) the menses in part recommenced; and, as long as they made their appearance, which was seldom above two hours, the woman always enjoyed a degree of vision. (Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 5, p. 443.) For the amaurosis, arising from suppression of the menses, Scarpa recommends leeches to the labia pudendi, bathing the feet in warm water, and afterwards exhibiting an emetic, and the re- solvent pills, of which I shall presently speak. If these means fail in establishing the menstrual dis- charge, he says, great confidence may be placed in a stream of electricity, conducted from the loins across the pelvis, in every direction, and thence repeatedly to the thighs and feet. He enjoins us not to despair at want of success at first, as the plan frequently succeeds, after a trial of several weeks. For the amaurosis, proceeding from the stop- page of an habitual copious bleeding from piles, Scarpa recommends the application of leeches and fomentations to the hemorrhoidal veins, then giving the patient an emetic, and afterwards the opening pills hereafter described. (Sag^in di Ossercatimi e d’esperienze suite principuli viulaltie degli occlii, cap. 19.) When the disease does not originate from the stoppage of any natural or habitual discharge of blood, and does not yield to the evacuating plan, Richter thinks, that the surgeon is justified in concluding, that the preternaturally dilated vessels have not regained their proper tone and diameter, and that he ought to employ topical corroborant remedies, particularly cold water. In this kind of case, Richter is an advocate for washing and bathing the whole head with cold water, espe- cially the part about the eyes; a method, he says, which may often be practised after eva- cuations, with singular and remarkable efficacy. When the return of sight cannot be brought about in this manner, Richter advises us to try such means, as seem calculated to stimulate the nerves, and remove the torpid affection of the optic nerves in particular. Of these last reme- dies, says he, emetics are the principal and most effectual. Soldiers, who lose their sight in per- forming forced marches, in hot weather, very commonly have it re-established again, by being immediately bled, and taking an emetic the next day. (SeeSclunucker’s Ckir. Wahrnchmungen 1. TueiL') We come now to the consideration of that species of the gutta serena, which is regarded as the effect of some unnatural irritation. Here, according to the precepts delivered by Richter, we should endeavour to discover what the par- ticular irritation is, and then endeavour to effect its removal. When it cannot be exactly de- tected, we arc recommended generally to employ such remedies, as will lessen the sensibility of the nerves, and render them less apt to be affected by any kind of irritation. Sometimes the irritation is both discoverable j and removable, and still the effect, that is to say, | the blindness, continues. In this circumstance, i Richter thinks, that the surgeon should endeavour | to obviate'the impression, which the irritation has left upon the nerves, by the use of anodynes; 1 or, else, try to remove the torpor of the nerves by stimulants. But, according to Sehmucker, Richter, and Scarpa, the curable imperfect amaurosis com- monly dqiends on some disease, or irritation, existing in the gastric system, occasionally com- plicated with general nervous debility, in which the eyes participate. Hence, in the majority of cases, we are assured, that the chief indications are, to free the alimentary canal from all irrita- ting matter, improve the state of the chylopoietic viscera, and invigorate the nervous system in general, and the nerves of the eye in particular. For an adult, dissolve three grains of anti- monium tartarizatum in four ounces of water, and give a spoonful of this solution, every half hour, until nausea and copious vomiting are produced. The next day some opening powders are to be exhibited, consisting of an ounce of the super- tartrate of potash, and one grain of antimonium tartarizatum, divided into six equal parts. The patient must take one of these in the morning, another four hours afterwards, and a third in the evening, for eight or ten days in succession. They will create a little nausea, a few more evacuations from the bowels than usual, and, perhaps, in the course of a few' days, vomiting. If the patient, during their use, should make wain efforts to vomit, complain of bitterness in his mouth, loss of appetite, and no renovation of sight, the emetic, as at first directed, is to be prescribed again. This is to be repeated a third, and fourth time, should the morbid state of the gastric system, the bitter taste in the mouth, the tension of the hypochondria, the acid eructations, and the inclination to vomit, make it necessary. The first emetic often produces only an evacua- tion of an aqueous fluid, blended with a. little mucus; but, if it be repeated, a few days after the resolvent powders have been administered, it then occasions a discharge of a considerable quantity of a yellow, greenish, matter, to the infinite relief of the stomach, head, and eyes. The stomach having been thus emptied, Schmucker’s or Richter’s resolvent pills are to be ordered. These are composed as follows. Sap. Venet. J Rhei optim.. 3iss Tart. Eniet. gr. xvi. Sue. liquerit 3j fiant pilul-.c gran, quinque. Three of these pills to be taken every morn- ing and evening for a month, or six weeks. Gum. Ammoniac. Ass. foetid. 6 Sap. Venet. V an. 3 y Rad. Valer. s. p. i Summit. Arnica;. J Tart. Emet. gr. xviij. fiant pile hr gran, quinque. Six to be taken thrice a day for several weeks.