■55* HASMAT pupil is the only change which takes place in the appearance of the eye. In this sort of case, the impairment of sight is usually preceded by severe pain, and the original cause may be an internal ophthalmy of longcontinuance. The crystalline is sometimes visibly opaque. Here electricity has been found useful; but, Mr. Ware states, that, in these instances, the sublimate has proved su- periorly and more certainly efficacious, and, con- sequently, he prefers it to all external appli- cations whatever. Pie recommends one-fourth of a grain, as a quantity proper for a common dose, and says, that it agrees best with the sto- mach when first dissolved, as Van Swieten di- rects, in half an ounce of brandy, and taken in a basin of sago or gruel. For young patients the dose must be diminished in proportion to their youth. The medicine is to be continued, as uninterruptedly as the constitution will allow, for a month, six weeks, or even longer. Electricity is said to have proved more strik- ingly useful, in cases of amaurosis, originating from lightning, than when the disease has arisen from any other cause. Mr. Ware relates a most interesting instance of the success of electricity, in a case which came on very suddenly, after great pain in the teeth, and a swelling of the face, had gone off. The disorder came on more suddenly; the temporary blindness was more entire ; the eye-lids were more affected, and the cure more speed}', than in the instances related by Mr. Hey, in the 5th Vol. of the Med. Obs. and Inq. (Chir. Observ. relative to the Eye, by J. Ware, Vol. 1.) However, the amaurosis produced by lightning may also be sometimes cured in other ways. Mr. Wardrop mentions that he has only seen one case of this kind, and the sight was restored by the repeated application of small blisters over the frontal nerve. (Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vol. 2, p. 173.) With the exception of one case related by Valsalva, Scarpa was unacquainted with any in- stance of amaurosis, arising from a wound of the eye-brow, that was relieved, and he has, there- fore, set down this species as incurable. The opinion, however, is not perhaps correct, for, the first case related by Mr. Hey arose from this cause, and was cured by giving every night the following dose: Calomel, pp Camphor, a a iij. Conserv. Cynosb. q. s. probe misceant ctf. Bolus, in conjunction with electricity. The lady, how- OCELE. ever, had been previously bled twice, had taken some nervous medicines, and had had a blister between the shoulders. 'The patient was first set upon a stool with glass feet, and had sparks drawn from the eyes, and parts surrounding the orbits, especially, where the superciliary, and infra-or- bitary branches of the fifth pair of nerves spread themselves. After this operation had been con- tinued half an hour, she was made to receive, for an equal lime, slight shocks through the affected parts. In a few days sight began to return, and in less than three months it was quite restored: —In another case, one grain of calomel, and two of camphor, given every night, and the em- ployment of electricity, effected a cure. The dis- ease had come on gradually, without any pre- vious accident, or pains in the head. The patient a boy nine years old. I here are several other very interesting cases of amaurosis related by Mr. Hey, all of which make electricity appear an efficacious remedy, though it is true, as Scarpa observes, that, in most of these instances, internal medicines were also given, and bleeding occasionally practised. Mr. Hey attributes the benefit chiefly to the electricity, because, in two of his cases, no me- dicines were used, yet the progress of the amend- ment seemed to be as speedy in them, as in the rest, and in two instances, a degree of sight was obtained by the first application of electricity. At present, I think electricity and galvanism, as means of benefiting amaurosis, are now less valued in England, than on the continent: Mr. Travers states, that he has had recourse to them in many cases, some of which were of a very favourable de- scription, but he never saw any good produced by them. {Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 303.) How far, however, the statements of Beer, Ware, &c. about the efficacy of local applica tions, can be trusted, is yet a question; for, they disagree with reports made by other writers. Thus, with the 'exception of cupping, issues, setons, and particularly blisters, Mr. Travers declares, that his experience leads him to attach no value to the various forms of external reme- dies. (Synopsis, S[C. p. 30, tivo. Loud. 1820.) In Dr. Vetch’s Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Eye, 8vo. Land. 1820, a work published since the article Amaurosis in this Dictionary was printed, the reader will find a chapter on this dis- ease, worthy of his attention. (See p. 133, <£-c.) ! H. HiEMATOCELE, (from ai/xu, blood, and a tumor.) This is a swelling of the scrotum, or spermatic cord, proceeding from, or caused by, blood. According to Mr. Pott, when the tunica vaginalis has been long, or much distended, “ it becomes thick, and tough; and the vessels (especially those of its inner surface) are some- times so large, as to be very visible, and even varicous. If one of these lies in the way of the instrument, wherewith the palliative cure is per- formed, it is sometimes wounded ; in which case, the first part of the serum which is discharged, is pretty deeply tinged with blood. “ Upon the collapsion of the membranes, and of the empty bag, this kind of hemorrhage gene- rally ceases, and nothing more comes of it. But, it sometimes happens, either from the toughness of the tunic, or from the varicose state of the vessel, that the wTound (especially if made by a lancet) does not immediately unite; but continues to discharge blood into the cavity of the said tunic, thereby producing a new tumor, and a fresh necessity of operation.”