HOSPITAL GANGRENE, quite at variance with the statement of Delpech; (Precis Elem. T. 1, p- 129,) but intended to re- fer, as I conceive, to cases in which the femoral, brachial, or other large artery is seen for se- veral days completely denuded, in the midst of the ravages of the distemper, yet not giving way, I have seen the same thing frequently exempli- fied in mercurial pttagedsena, as well in the groin, as in the arm. As for the smaller arteries, they are quickly destroyed, together with other parts. “ In some rare cases (says L'r. Hennen) I have seen the femoral and axillary artery pulsa- ting awfully, and apparently unaffected with dis- ease; while all the surrounding parts were com- pletely destroyed; but, in a vast majority of cases, the blood-vessels partook of the general disease, in which they were imbedded. They were not only completely separated from their natural connexions, but their coats sloughed away at the immediate point of disease, while the dis- position extended far beyond the apparently affected spot. Hence, our ligatures but too often failed on the main branches, and any attempt on the smaller was invariably injurious. We were here naturally induced to tie the artery con- siderably above the seat of the disease; and this was done once on the femoral, and twice on the axillary artery below the clavicle; the former burst on the third, each of the latter, on the se- cond day afterwards.” Dr. Hennen further re- marks, that, in general, the great vessels slough- ed long after the acute symptoms of the disease had abated, and that, in severe cases, the eleventh day of the disease was always dreaded. (On Military Surgery, p. 221, Ed. 2.) The in- disposition of the large vessels to close, when taken up in the common way, appears referrible to three causes, viz. the tendency to rapid ulcera- tion m the arteries in the situation of the liga- tures ; the formation of no effectual coagulum in the extremity of the vessel, like what happens in other cases of mortification ; and the general incapacity of nature in examples of hospital gangrene to establish any process, which can be accompanied with healthy adhesive inflammation. In the last stage'of the disease, as it occurred in the military hospitals at Bilbao, the surface of the sore was constantly covered with a ^bloody oozing, and, on lifting up the edge of the flabby slough, the probe was tinged with dark-coloured grumous blood, with which also its track became immediately filled. Repeated and copious ve- nous bleedings now came on, which rapidly sunk the patient; -the sloughs, whether they fell off spontaneously, or were detached by art, were quickly succeeded by others, and brought into view thickly studded specks of arterial blood. At length, an artery gave way, which was generally torn through in the attempt to secure it with a ligature; the tourniquet, or other pressure was now applied, but in vain; for, while it checked the bleeding, it accelerated the death of the limb, which became frightfully swelled and horribly fe- tid. Incessant retchings came on, and with coma, involuntary stools, and hiccough, closed the scene. Often, however, the patient survived this acute state of the disease, and sunk under se- vere irritation, absorption of putrid matter, and extensive loss of substance, with common hectic symptoms. (See Hennen's Mil. Surgery, «. 1 7’ 2*) I» the disease at Bilbao, the skin and cellular substance seemed to be the parts ori- ginally and principally affected. This, says Dr. Hennen, was obvious, even in the living body ;■ but, on dissection, the disease of these parts was frequently observed to spread much further, than external appearances indicated, as a diseased track was often found running up into the groin, or axilla, and completely dissecting the muscles and great vessels. (On Military Surgery, p. 219, Ed. 2.) When the disease had occupied the outside of the chest, the same gentleman found the lungs in two cases, and the pericardium in a third, covered with gangrenous spots ; and, when- the parietes of the abdomen had been attacked, he often observed the same appearances on the liver. (P. 220.) Hospital gangrene must be regarded, as one of the most serious and dangerous complications, to which wounds and ulcers are liable. When the solution of continuity is large, or of long standing, the disorder commits great ravages, renews its attacks repeatedly, and the relapses prove exceedingly obstinate. The same thing, is said to happen, when it affects persons labour- ing under scorbutic or venereal complaints. Hospital gangrene proves particularly dangerous, and mostly fatal, when it complicates large con- tused wounds, attended with badly fractured bones. All the soft parts of the injured limb are then frequently observed to be progressively de- stroyed, and the unfortunate patient falls a vic- tim, either to typhoid symptoms, frequent he- morrhages, or hectic complaints. From what has been stated, however, the disease varies con- siderably in its severity in different cases, being sometimes of small extent, and even capable al- most of a spontaneous cure. Patients have been known to continue afTlicted more than a month, and when the duration of the disease was thus lengthened, the cases almost always had a fatal termination. In a few cases, the wound puts on a favourable appearance again between the sixth- and ninth days; and, in slight examples, the amendment is manifested between the third and fifth. Whatever may be the period of the com- plaint, its wished-for termination is always an- nounced by a diminution of pain; the pus ac- quiring a white colour, and more consistence, and losing its fetid nauseous smell. The edges- of the ulcer subside, while its surface becomes- less irregular, and puts on more of the vermilion colour. The red, purplish, cedematous circle, which surrounds the disease, assumes a true in- flammatory nature, and the solution of conti- nuity, restored to a simple state, heals up with tolerable quickness, even when the destruction of soft parts is somewhat considerable, unless any fresh untoward circumstances occur to interrupt cicatrization. But, sometimes, when the patient is on the point of being completely well again, his condition is suddenly altered for the worse; ulcerated spots make their appearance on the ci- catrix, and these spreading in different directions occasion a relapse, which may happen several times. From numerous cases of this disease, seen by- Mr. Blackadder at Passage in Spain, this gentle- man made the following conclusions : 1. That the morbid action could almost always, be detected in the wound, or sore, previous to the occurrence of any constitutional affection^