jatheter. After the parts had healed, some urine different in their nature, as possible, and require URI to happen when the action of the bladder is en- some of it out of the urethra, until the resistance wards made to excoriate its edges, and unite , evident, that some urine had escaped by the side 1113 URI for the reception of the edge of the skin to be de- tached from the opposite side. An incision was then made across the perineum, above and below, so as to pare away the callous edges of the ure- thra. The skin was next dissected off from a portion of integument on the right side of the perineum, about an inch and a half in length, and half an inch broad, leaving a smooth space of rather more than an inch, between the cut ■ surfaces. The integuments, on the right side, were now dissected up, turned over a catheter, and brought in contact with the opposite groove. The detached portion of cicatrix bled little during the operation, and before it could be applied to the groove, its edge had so livid an appearance, |.as to create an apprehension, that it must perish. Two sutures were employed to assist in retaining I it in the desired position, and some straps of ad- I hesive plaster, and a bandage, completed the !. dressings. The day after the operation, it was of the catheter; and, on the third day, when the dressings were removed, it was found, that the portion of flesh, which had been deprived of skin, had sloughed, but that a sufficient quantity had united, above and below, to form a canal, open it one side, and large enough to include the whole could be made to pass through the urethra, when 5 pressure was applied to the left side of the re- naming fistula. Various attempts were after- hem, but without success. A second operation was therefore done in the mmmer of 1820, and integuments were now ■ lorrowed from the opposite side to that, from vhich they had been taken in the first operation. * A deep groove was made on-the right side, : he surface was denuded of its cutis to some ex- : ent, a considerable portion of integument was t hen detached from the left side, and, in order to l btain healthy skin (says Mr. Earle) I en- • roached a little on the thigh, and laid bare the •dge of the fascia lata. Instead of passing any . gature through the detached portion, the old uill-suture was employed, which was passed -om the two outer cut surfaces. A pad of ad- hesive plaster was interposed between the liga- rres and the flap of skin.” The catheter was ot left in the urethra, but introduced about three mes in 24 hours. By this operation, much lore was gained, and about two-thirds of the eficient part of the canal were restored; but, ill a small aperture remained at the upper part, 'his opening could not be closed by touching it ith escharotics, and, consequently, a third ■ aeration on a smaller scale was done, which so aarly completed the cure, as to leave only an 'dice, large enough to admit a bristle, and this icning subsequently closed, and the patient re- amed quite well in March 1821. (See Phil, 'runt, for 1821.) Here we see the same art, by which new noses id under-lips are formed, extending itself to scs, where it may be the means of extricating me individuals from a state, in which life is rdly desirable. The surgeon of judgment, wever, will never forget, that such an opera- m is only indicated, where the fistula is large, e urethra tree from obstruction, and bougies d the catheter insufficient. URINE, INCONTINENCE OF. This complaint is quite the reverse of retention oi urine; for, as in the latter affection, the urine is continually flowing into the bladder, without the patient having the power to expel it; so, in the former, it flows out, without the patient being able to retain it. According to Desault, children are particu- larly liable to the disorder; adults are less fre- quently afflicted with it; and persons of advanced years, appear to be still less liable to it. The last observation may seem an error to such prac- titioners, as have met with numerous examples, where patients, advanced in years, were incapable of retaining their urine. The fact is, that the overflow of this fluid, or, in other words, its dribbling away through the urethra, in some cases of retention, of which it is only a symptom, has been too commonly confounded with an in- continence of urine, though the cases are as very opposite modes of treatment. In reten- tions, depending upon weakness and paralysis of the hladdcr, the involuntary dribbling of the ■urine, is generally only an effect of the other disease, and they prevail together. The dis- tended bladder reacts upon the urine, and forces of the sphincter and of the urethra are precisely equal to the expelling power. Sometimes the urine even dribbles away incessantly, as is found tirely destroyed; for, being then constantly full, it cannot hold any more of the urine, descending to it through the ureters, unless as much be voided through the urethra, as is received from the kidneys, and as unremittingly as the addition from the latter organs continues to be made. Such ease rather belongs to the article. Urine, Retention of, than the present subject. It is correctly remarked by Desault, that the causes of an incontinence of urine, strictly so called, are the very reverse of those of a reten- tion. The latter case happens, whenever the ac- tion of the bladder is weakened, and the resist- ance in the urethra increased. On the contrary, an incontinence originates, either from the ex- pelling power of the bladder being augmented, while the resistance in the urethra is not propor- tionately increased; or from the resistance being lessened, while the expelling force continues the same. On these principles, Desault thought it easy to explain, why the disorder should be most com- mon in children; and one reason, which lie gives for the circumstance, is, that, in childhood, there is more irritability, than at any other period of life. The expulsion of the urine, he observes, is entirely effected by muscular action, while the resistance is merely owing to the sphincter ve- sicae, the levatores ani, and perhaps to a few other inconsiderable fasciculi of muscular fibres; for, the different curvatures of the urethra, and the contractile power of this tube itself, he thought, could make only a feeble resistance to the dis- charge of the urine. An incontinence happens in children, because the bladder contracts so suddenly and forcibly, that its contents are voided almost before these young subjects arc aware of the occasion to make water, and without their being able to restrain the evacuation. There are also many children, who, from indolence, ot e