URINARY FJSTUL/E. easy; but the instrument is more difficult to be fixed, than in men. Desault contends, however, that it is very essential to have it so fixed in the bladder, that the urine may escape, lie found, that the only effectual plan was to fasten the catheter to a point, that always re- tained the same position, with respect to the meatus urinarius. tie used a kind of machine, made after the manner of a truss, the circle of which was long enough to embrace the upper part of the pelvis, and had in its middle an oval plate, intended to be placed upon the pubes. In the centre of this plate was a groove, to which a piece of silver was fitted, curved so that one of its ends, with an aperture in it, came over the vulva, on a level with the meatus urinarius. This piece of silver admitted of being fastened to the plate with a screw. After the catheter had been introduced and arranged in the bladder, so that its beak and eyes were situated at the lowest part of this viscus, the end of the instru- ment was put through the aperture of the piece of silver, which slided into the groove of the plate, and it was afterwards fixed in the way already explained. By means of this machine, the catheter was securely fixed, without incom- moding the patient, even when she was walking. In these last cases, large catheters, with full- sized apertures, should be employed, so that the urine may more readily escape through the in- strument, than fall into the vagina. In the early part of the treatment, the catheters should also be ieft constantly open. In order to keep the edges of the division as near together as possible, Desault introduced into the vagina, a soft kind of pessary, large enough to fill the vagina, without distending it. By this means, the form of the fistula was changed from round to oval, which is the most favourable to its re-union ; and the advantage was gained of closing the fistula, and hindering the urine from falling into the vagina. When the rectum is wounded in lithotomy, Desault advised dividing the parts, comprehended between the wound of the operation, the opening in the rectum, and the margin of the anus. That such an operation may become necessary in some instances, I will not say; but, it can never be proper, until it is seen whether the wound of the rectum will not heal up favourably, without such treatment. I have seen two cases, in which the rectum was cut in lithotomy, yet no fistula en- sued ; and other similar facts have been men- tioned to me by professional friends. The suc- cess also, with which the wound has generally been healed after lithotomy, done through the rectum, is another fact, tending to prove, that the inconveniences of a wound of the latter bowel in the operation have been rather exaggerated. In a case of urinary fistula, communicating with the rectum, and which could not be healed with the catheter, Sir A. Cooper introduced a catheter into the bladder, and his finger into the rectum, and then made an incision, as in the operation for the stone, in the left side of the raphe, until he felt the staff through the bulb. He then directed a double edged knife across the perineum, between the prostate gland and the rectum, with the intention of dividing the l! . . 1 _ _ _ . * 1! 1. ..i ...n/m t lin in-ill lit-M nil/-I the wound, and a poultice applied. When the lint was removed, the urine was found to take it* course through the opening in perinaeo; the aperture in the rectum^p-aduaily healed ; and that in the perineum quickly closed; the urine being all now discharged in the natural wav. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 215.) As the same gentleman has observed, aper- tures in the urethra, attended with loss of sub- stance, are extremely difficult to heal. He re- lates a case, where the urethra had sloughed at the junction of the scrotum with the penis ; the opening healed at its margin, but a large fistulous orifice still remained. Bougies, the plans of ex- coriating the edges of the opening with blistering plaster, and even paring them off’, and bringing the fresh cut surfaces together with the twisted suture, had all been tried in vain. In this ex- ample, a cure was effected by applying the nitrous acid to the edge of the fistulous orifice, and to the skin, three quarters of an inch around it, the principle, on which Sir A. Cooper rested his hopes of success, being the contraction of the skin in cicatrization. The first application ha- ving produced considerable amendment, the plan was repeated several times in the course of about nine months, at the end of which time, the fis- tula was closed. But, Sir A. Cooper is of opi- nion, that such practice will only succeed in cases where the skin is very loose, and the scrotum forms a part of the fistulous orifice. If the skin be much confined, he suggests, raising a piece of skin from the scrotum, paring oflf the edges of the fistulous orifice, and removing the skin to a small extent around it. The skin, thus raised, is to be turned half round, so that its raw surface may be applied to the opening, and unite. An elastic catheter is first to be introduced. In the successful operation of this kind, which was actually done, the flap was held by four sutures; and small slips of adhesive plaster, and a bandage to support the scrotum, were employed. In the course of the treatment, pressure was found ne- cessary to prevent the occasional passage of urine through the wound. (A. Cooper, Surgical Es- says, Part 2, p. 221, S[C.) Mr. Earle met with a case, in which the in- teguments in the perineum, and above an inch of the canal of the urethra, had sloughed away, in consequence of external violence. At the man’s entrance into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, a large smooth cicatrix occupied the place of the urethra, no vestige of which remained in that part. The integuments on the right side had suf- fered less extensively, than those on the left; so that when the catheter was introduced, that por- tion of the instrument, which passed over the cica- trix, could be about half covered, by drawing the skin and healed part from the right, towards the opposite side. The treatment was therefore be- gun by confining the knees together over a pil- low, and applying a kind of truss, which kept the skin constantly pressed towards the left side. While these measures were going on, the oppor- tunity was taken of dilating the anterior portion of the urethra with bougies. Afterwards the follow- ing operation, which i had the pleasure of seeing, was performed ; a portion of the integuments was removed, about an inch and a half long, and one- nn