EPI 422 ENC from which one might deduce the reason of this unusual accident. Indeed, the same author adds, “ I have often performed this operation for such excrescences, and have never met with a similar occurrence.” (Receuil d'Observ. sur les Maladies de PCEjl, Fait. 2. Obs. 118.) When the encanthis is large, and inveterate, with two extensive fleshy elongations, one on the inside of the upper eyelid, and the other on that of the lower one, we are to proceed in the fol- lowing manner. The patient being seated, an assistant is to turn out the inside of the upper eyelid, so as to make one of the appendages of the encanthis project outward. By means of a small bistoury, a deep incision is next to be made into the elongation, in the direction of the mar- gin of the eyelid; and then having taken hold of, and drawn it forwards with a pair of forceps, we are to separate it, throughout its whole length, from the inside of the upper eyelid, proceeding from the extennal, towards the internal angle of the eye, as far as the body, or middle of the en- canthis. We are then to do the same to the lip- pomatous appendage on the inside of the lower eyelid. Afterwards the body of the encanthis is to be elevated, if possible, with a pair of forceps; but when this instrument will not answer the purpose, a double hook must be employed. This middle portion is now to be detached, partly by the bistoury, and partly by the curved scissars from the subjacent conjunctiva, on the globe of the eye, from the semilunar fold, and from the caruncula lachrymalis; dividing the substance of this last part more, or less deeply, according to the depth and hardness of the large, inveterate encanthis. Here it is proper to state distinctly, that when we have to deal with an old, large tu- mor of this nature, deeply rooted in the caruncula lachrymalis, it is not regularly in our power to preserve a sufficient quantity of the substance of this part, to prevent the tears from dropping over the cheek, after the wound is healed. The eye is to be repeatedly washed with cold water. The rest of the treatment, consequent to the extirpation of a large encanthis, is almost the same as what was explained in speaking of the small incipient case. Bathing the eye very fre- quently in the lotion of mallows, and employing anodyne, detergent collyria, are the best local means, until the mucous appearance, preceding suppuration, has taken place on the surface of the wound. Then we may have recourse to mild astringent ointments and collyria. The mildest topical applications are generally the best, both in the first stage of suppuration, as well as afterwards, particularly, when, together with the encanthis, we have removed a consider- able piece of the conjunctiva, which covered the eyeball towards the nose, and was intimately connected with the body of the excrescence. Consult Scarpa suite Mnllattie degli Occhi. Ed. 5, Cap. 12 ; Richter, Anfangsgr. der Tfun- da<zn. Baud 2, p. 473, <j’*C. Edit. 1802. G. J. Beet, Lelire van den Augenhr. B. 2, P. 187, 8vo. Wein. 1817. On the whole, 1 consider Scarpu’s observations the mo t correct and valu- able, and they huve therefore been freely employed in the foregoing article. ENCEPHALOCELE. (from lyufam, the brain, and a tumor.) A hernia of the brain. (See Hernia Cerebri.) ENCYSTED TUMOKS. (See Tumors Encysted.) ENEMA, (from tvittpa, to inject.) A glyster. The following are some of the most useful glysters, employed in the practice of surgery. Cathartic. fy,. Decocti Hordei jjjj. Sodas Muriatis fj—Misce. R. Decocti Avenas Ipi. Olei Olivae ^ij. Maguesiae Sulphatis Jj —Misce. Anodyne. Iy. Mucilaginis Amyli, Aquae distillatae sing. Uj. Tincturae Opii guttas xl. —Misce. ]y* Olei Olivae ^iv. Tinctune Opii gut- tas xl.—Misce. The two latter glysters are particularly useful in'eases in which there is great irritation about the rectum, bladder, or urethra. The}' have gieat effect in diminishing spasmodic affections of this canal and the neck of the bladder. Tobacco, Employed in cases of strangulated Hernia. ]-(,. Nicotianae Jj. Aq. ferventis f|}j. The plant is to be macerated ten minutes, and the liquor then strained for use. One half should be first injected, and soon afterwards the other, un- less the glyster should operate with dangerous violence, as it sometimes does in particular con- stitutions. ENTEROCELE. (from evIscw, the bowels, and xyU, a tumor.) A hernia, in which the contents of the tumor are intestine. ENTERO-EPIPLOCELE. (from vdtoz, the bowels, j7n7rXoov, the omentum, and a tumor.) A hernia, in which the contents of the swelling are both intestine and omentum. ENTROPIUM, (from tv and vp^ra', to turn.) An inversion of the eyelids. (See Tri- chiasis.) EPIGLOTTIS SHOT AWAY. The prac- tice of Baron Larrey furnishes a curious ex- ample, in which the epiglottis of a French soldier was shot oft' at the battle of Alexandria, on the 21st of March, 1801. The ball entered at the angle of the jaw, crossed the throat obliquely, and came out at the opposite side of the neck. The base of the tongue was grazed, and the epiglottis shot away; the patient spit it up after the accident, and shewed it to the surgeon, who first saw him. One may be convinced of the fact by an account of the symptoms. The patient was not in much pain; but, his voice was hoarse, feeble, and scarcely audible. When he first attempted to swallow, he was seized with a convulsive suffocating cough, at- tended with vomiting. Annoyed by thirst, which the extreme heat of the weather and the irritation of the wound excited, he incessantly repeated his attempts to drink; but, always with the same result. Four days were passed in this deplorable condition. He already experienced violent com- plaints at his stomach ; continual loss of sleep,