952 PUPIL. enough left at one point for conducting the ne- cessary manoeuvres, with any degree of preci- sion. Cheselden first devised and executed a section of the iris, for the purpose of forming an arti- ficial pupil. He introduced a couching needle, having a sharp edge only on one side, through the sclerotica, at the distance of a line and a half from the cornea, into the anterior of the eye. After perforating the iris towards the external angle, and then pushing the point of the needle through the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, as far as that side of the iris, which is nearest the nose, he turned the edge of the in- strument backward, and withdrew it, so as to make a transverse division of that membrane. This operation seems to have been attended with the greatest success. However, Janin {Mem. sur V(Eil) assures us. that, having per- formed it on two subjects with the utmost care possible, he did not find the smallest benefit fol- low it; for, in these two patients, as soon as the symptoms, produced by the operation, subsided, the transverse section, made in the iris by the edge of the needle, reunited, and Sharp had ex- perienced the same thing, earlier than Janin. (On Operations, chap. 29.) An accident occurred to Janin, in the act of extracting a cataract; viz. he included the iris together with the cornea, in Daviel’s scissars, and cut it perpendicularly, and the division re- mained permanent. This led him to propose a perpendicular incision as the best expedient for making an artificial pupil. His plan consisted in opening the cornea, as is practised for the ex- traction of the cataract, and in dividing the iris perpendicularly with scissars, near that part of the pupil, which is next to the nose; for, he af- firms, that he has seen strabismus result from making the seci.it, towards the external side, on account of the too great divarication of the optical axes. Although the practice c malting an incision in the iris, or corotomia, is severely disapproved of by Beer, who states, that it admits of being prac- tised only )• very few cases, and is rendered quite unnetts . by what, he considers, the two other better plans (B. 2. P. 199), the operation is still considered by some men of experience, as having recommendations, and'they have therefore endeavoured to improve it. However, it will only be ki my power to notice in this work a few of its modifications. In 1812, Sir W. Adams recommended the revival of Cheselden’s method of forming an ar- tificial pupil, with the difference of using for the purpose a particular sort of knife. “ With a ca- taract needle (says this oculist) I could not cut through the iris by a gentle force;.and, if I ven- tured to apply a greater force, the iris separated from its attachment to the ciliary ligament, which rendered aD further attempts to effect a central aperture useless. The same accident appears to have happened to Mr. Sharp in his trials of this operation. In the hopes ol procuring an appro- priate instrument, I twice went to London, at the interval of a few months; but, though I described to different instrument-makers the purposes for which it was intended; still I could only procure by Cheselden. At length, it occurred to me that the curved edge of the common dissecting scalpel was well adapted to cut with facility. I therefore, when in London, a third time, got a small knife made, two thirds of an inch in length, and nearly a line in width, with a straight back, sharp point, and a curved edge, which cuts back towards the handle for about three lines.” (Adams's Pruct. Ohs. on Ectropium, §c. p. 30.) According to this gentleman, in all cases, where there is no crystalline lens, and the cornea is free from opacity, the division of the iris should be made in the centre, and should extend across at least two-thirds of its transverse diameter. In a later work, however, this author states, that experience lias convinced'him, that so extensive a division of the iris is unnecessary for the pre- vention of the reunion of this membrane, and that a cut through one-third of its diameter is sufficient. The eye being gently fixed, either with the finger of the assistant, who supports the upper eyelid, or with a concave sort of speculum, placed under the upper eyelid, the artificial pupil knife is to be introduced through the coats of the eye, about a line behind the iris, with its cutting edge turned backwards. The point is next to be brought forward through the iris, somewhat more than a line from its temporal ciliary attachment, and cautiously carried through the anterior chamber, until it has nearly reached the inner edge of ihat membrane, (or as is expressed in a later description,) “ until it has traversed more than two thirds of the width of the iris,” when it should be almost withdrawn out of the eye, gentle pressure being made with the curved part of the cutting edge of the instrument against the iris, in the line of its transverse diameter. If, in the first attempt, the' iris should not be suf- ficiently cut, the point of the knife is to be again carried forward, and similarly withdrawn, until the incision is of a proper length. After the operation, the eye is to he covered with a plaster of' simple ointment, and the patient put into bed, with his head raised. (P. 36, 37.) When the closure of the pupil is attended with a cataract, the primary steps of the operation are the same; hut, Sir William Adams takes care also to cut the cataract into pieces, some of which he brings forward into the anterior chamber, while others he leaves in the opening of the iris, where they at first serve as a plug, hindering union by the first intention, (P.38.) and are afterwards ab- sorbed. For an account of this gentleman’s particular methods in all the various complica- tions of these cases, the reader must consult his publications, where many successful examples of the operation are recorded. That Cheselden’s method ought not to be en- tirely rejected, there can now lie no doubt. Like all other modes of forming an artificial pupil, it certainly does not merit exclusive preference. Besides the authority of Sir W. Adams, we have the testimony of Mr. Ware, to prove, that Che- selden’s operation frequently succeeds. This gentleman informs us, that, when the pupil has become closed, after an unsuccessful operation of extracting the cataract, he has in several instances made a new pupil,, agreeably to Cheseldcn’s mode of performing the operation, with the most