174 ANEURISM. Pott, and Garncri, mention eases of the aneu- lismal varix, which remained stationary for four- teen, twenty, and thirty-five years. Several cases are related by Brambilla, Guattani, and Monteggia, of a cure having been obtained by means of compression. But, as this method of cure, if it does not succeed, exposes the patient to the danger of a complication of the disease with an aneurism, it ought not to be employed, except in recent cases, where the tumor is small, and in slender patients, at an early period of life, anil where both of the vessels can be compressed accurately against the bone. Two cases are recorded, in which it was neces- sary to operate in consequence of the disease being joined with aneurism of the artery, and even bursting. The sacs were opened, and a ligature .applied both above and below the aper- ture in the artery. (See Medical Facts and Obs. Vol. 4, p. Ill, and Medical Museum, Vo/. 1, p. 65.) In the winter of 1819, I heard a case read to the Medical and Chirurgical Society, of London, from Mr. Atkinson, of York, who bad found it necessary to take up the brachial artery, on account of the large and increasing size of an aneurismal varix: mortification of the limb en- sued. When the aneurism, joined witli an aneu- rismal varix, is circumscribed, but the circum- stances such as to require the brachial artery to be tied, this vessel should be exposed, and tied above the swelling with a single ligature. It is only when the aneurism is diffused, that opening the swelling, and applying a ligature both above and below-the aperture in the artery, are thought necessary. (See Scarpa on Aneurism, p. 433, Ed. 2.) ANEURISM FROM ANASTOMOSIS. This is the term which the late Mr. John Bell, of Edinburgh, applied to a species of aneurism, which resembles such bloody tumors, fuevi materni) as appear in new-born citildren, grow to a large size, and, ultimately bursting, emit a considerable quantity of blood. Clear descriptions of this disease may be traced in writers, though before the publication of Mr. John Bell’s Principles of Surgery, it was not classed with aneurisms. Thus, Desault has re- corded a case of this affection, for the express purpose of proving, that pulsation is an uncer- tain sign of the existence of an aneurism. (See Parisian Chirurgical Journal, Vol. 2, p. 73.) The aneurism from anastomosis often affects adults, increasing from an appearance like that of a mere speck, or pimple, to a formidable dis- ease, and being composed of a mutual enlarge- ment of the smaller arteries and veins. The disease originates from some accidental cause; is marked by a perpetual throbbing ; grows slowly, but incontrollably; and is rather irritated, than checked, by compression. The throbbing is at first indistinct, but when the tumor is perfectly formed, the pulsation is very manifest. Every exertion makes the throbbing more evident. The occasional turgid states ol the tumor pro- duce sacs of blood in the cellular substance, or dilated veins, and these sacs form little tender, livid, very thin, points, which burst, from time to time, and then like other aneurisms, this one bleeds so profusely, as to induce extreme weak- ness. The tumor is a congeries of active vessels, and the cellular substance, through which these ves- sels are expanded, resembles, as Mr. John Bell describes, the gills of a turkey cock, or the sub- stance of the placenta, spleen, or womb. The irritated and incessant action of the arteries fills the cells with blood, and from these cells, it is reabsorbed by the veins. The size of the swell- ing is increased by exercise, drinking, emotions of the mind, and by all causes, which accelerate the circulation. In this peculiar disease, Dupuvtren regard-, the arteries as being in an aneurismal state, but. besides this circumstance, lie says, their extreme ramifications intermix in a thousand different ways, intercepting spaces, and representing cavi- ties, like those which are found in the corpora cavernosa; and he imputes the disease to increased activity of the capillary circulation. (Fr. Transl. of Mr. Hodgson's Work, T. 2. p. 300.) In the female subject, the hemorrhage from the aneurism by anastomosis sometimes is a sub- stitute for menstruation, as the following ex- ample illustrates : Ann Vachot, of St. Maury, in Bressc, was born with a tumor on her chin, of the size and shape of a small strawberry, without pain, heat, or discoloration of the skin. As it produced no uneasiness, nor inconvenience what- ever, it excited little attention, particularly as it did not seem to increase with the growth of the child. For the first fifteen years, there was but little alteration; but about the menstrual period, it increased suddenly to double the size, and became more elongated in its form. A quantity of red blood was observed to ooze from its ex- tremity. This Hux became, in some measure, periodical, and sometimes was sufficiently abun- dant to produce anylarming degree of weakness. Each period of its return was preceded by a violent pain in the head and numbness. Before and after the appearance of these symp- toms, there was no alteration in the size of the tumor; the only difference was a small enlarge- ment of the cutaneous veins, with an increase of heat in the part, occasioning some degree of tenderness. The menses at length took place, but, in small quantity, and, at irregular periods, without in- fluencing the blood discharged from the tumor, or the frequency of the evacuation. The breasts were not enlarged till a late period, nor did the approach of puberty seem to have its accustomed influence on those glands, &c. (See Parisian Chirurgical Journal, Vol. 2, p. 73, 74.) As far as my observations extend, the true aneurism by anastomosis, is a disease, with which a surgeon should never tamper; and, if it bo decided to try any treatment at all, the only prudent plan is either a complete removal of the disease with a knife, or tying the chief arteries, which supply the swelling with blood. The first is the surest mode of relief, and should be pre- ferred, when not forbidden by the magnitude, or situation of the tumor. In performing such an operation, ns Mr. War- drop remarks, the surgeon should avoid cutting into the substance of the tumor; for if this be