BRONCHOCELE. 237 taeathino- was much impeded by a bronchocele, and yhose upper thyroid arteries were very large, and affected with strong pulsations, Waither, of Lamlshut, tied the left of these vessels, the left side of the gland being the largest. The opera- tion was done on the Sd of June, 1814. An in- cision, an inch and a half in length, was made in tiie direction of the inner edge of the sterno- vleido-mastoid muscle, where the throbbing of the artery was quite distinct. By a second stroke of- the knife, the platysma-myoides was divided in the same direction, and to an equal extent. The vessel was then exposed by a cautious dis- section, and separated from the surrounding parts, and one arterial branch, which was divided, was immediately secured. A ligature, composed of three silk-threads, was then conveyed with an aneurism needle under the left thyroid artery, and tied with two simple knots. The wound was then closed with adhesive plaster, and the ends of the ligatures brought out at the angles. The li- gature on the large artery came away on the 12th day; and, without any febrile symptoms, or other bad consequences, the wound was perfectly healed on the 23d day. As early as the 3d day after the application of the ligature, the left part of the tumor began to be less tense, and the throbbing feel in it soon ceasc-d. By degrees, it dwindled away, becoming as it lessened harder, and, as it were, cartilaginous. In a fortnight, the left half of the swelling was one-third smaller, than before the operation; and, at length, only one-third of it remained, while the right side also was somewhat smaller. On the 17th of June, Waither took up the right superior thyroideal artery, which was more difficult to get at, as it lay more deeply, and was much concealed under the enlarged gland, which had pushed it out of its natural situation. The operation lasted three-quarters of an hour, and se- veral large and small arteries which were cut were tied. With respect to the thyroid artery itself, it could not be tied without including a part of the gland in the ligature. No unfavourable symptoms followed this second operation; the ligatures were detached in good time; and the wound healed up very well. The right portion of the bronchocele also now diminished; but, though it was originally smaller, than the left, it did not dwindle away so completely as the latter. The remains of the tumor, however, two years after- wards, produced no inconvenience, and respira- tion was quite easy. (See Neue Heilurt des KiropJ'es, &;c. von Ph. Fr. von Wnllher, p. 25, £fc. 8ro. Suliharh, 1817.) On the 29th of December, 1818, ]\Ir. Henry Coates, of Salisbury, took up the superior thyroideal artery for the cure of a bron- chocele, which, in a young woman, aged seven- teen, was pressing on the trachea and oesopha- gus, and attended with a great noise in breathing. I he su|)erior thyroideal arteries were in this in- stance large, and pulsated strongly. Mr. Coates cut down upon the left of these vessels, sepa- rated it from its accompanying nerve, and passed under it a small round ligature, which was-drawn moderately tight, and tied. The next day, there "as head-ach, and some swelling of the neck and side of the head, with increased difficulty of swallowing, and febrile symptoms. These cotn- P amts, however, were relieved by bleeding and autimonial medicines. The ligature came away on the 9th day, and, on the 14th, the wound was completely healed. On the 14 th of February, the breathing being much improved, and the tu- mour reduced nearly to one half of its former size, the patient was well enough to be discharged from the Infirmary. (See Med. Chir. Truns. To/. 10, p. 312.) My friend Mr. Rose lately mentioned to me a case, in which a similar opera- tion done by Mr. Brodie, did not produce any material diminution of the tumor. Dr. Parry has remarked a frequent coincidence, either as cause or effect, between enlargement of the thyroid gland and cardiac diseases (Elements oj Pathology, &,c. p. 181.) And, another mo- dern writer mentions, that he has lately seen three cases of this complication. (Medico Chir. Jo urn. Vol. 1, /). 181.) A case is detailed by Flajani, where the disease was accompanied with extraordinary palpitations of the heart. (See Collezione d’Osservazioni, §c. di Chirurgia, T. 3, v. ,270.) In the instance, here referred to, there was great irregularity of the pulse, and the op- pression of the breathing was such, that, the patient was obliged to submit to venesection at least every month, whereby lie had been ren- dered quite emaciated. Albncasis gave the Jirst good account of broncho- celc. See Turner’s Surgery, Pol. ], p. 164. Wilrner’s Cases and Remarks in Surgery, with an Appendix on the Method of Curing the Broncho- cele in Coventry, 8vo. Lond. 1779. Prosser, an Account and Method of Cure of Bronchocele, or Derby-neck, Svc. Loud, 1769. Also 3d Edit. 4 to. Land. 1782. Bell’s Surgery, Vol. 5, White’s Surgery. Memoirs of the Med. Society of Loudon, 2l7. Gooch’s Chirurgicul Marks, Vol. 2, p. 96.—Vol. 3, p. 157. Desault’s Parisian Chirurgical Journal, 1 ol. 2, p. 292. CEuvres Chirurgicales de Desault, par Bichat, Tom. 2, p. 298. V. Malacarne, lettre sur l’F/ut de Critins, (Frank Del. op. 6.) P'.dinh. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. 4, p. 27.9. Odin’s Manuel de Medecine Pratique, Svo. Geneve, 1811. Dr. Reeves's Paper on Cretinism, in Edin h. Med, and Surg. Journal, Vol. 5. Traitc du Goitre cl du Cre- iinisme, par F. E. Fed ere, 8r<>. Paris, an. S. Richter’s Anfavgsgrundc der IVundarzncykunst, B. 4, Kap. 13, Von Kropfe. Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, by A. Bums, p. 191, &fc. Larrey, Memoires dc Chirurgie Militairc, Tom. 1» p. 123. Tom. 3, p. 199, Sjc. J. F. Ackermanv, iiber die Kretiuen, cine besondre Menschenabart m den Alpen, Svo. Gotha, 1790. B. S. Barton, A Memoir concerning the Disease of Goitre, as it prevails in different parts of North America, 8vo* Philadelphia, 1800. Memoria Patologico-Practica sullu Nutura de Gozzo, fyc. del Doitor Prpspcro Pustiglionc, 1 ‘2mo. Firenze, 1811. Fortum Com- ment. dc Pilio Scrophuloso, T. 2. Giuseppe Fta- jutii, Collezinne d’Osservazioni e UificssionidiChi- rmgia, T. p. 270, <3Cc. 8w. Roma, 1802. Quudti in Med.-Chir. Trans. Vol. 10, p. 10, Diet. des. Sciences Mai. art Bronchocele ; Ph, Fr. 1 Vallher, Neue Hcihrt des Kropfcs durch die Untcrbinduug der obern Schildrusen-Schla- gaderv, vebst der Geschichte vines durch die Operation gehcxllen Aneurism Js dev ( oral is 8 to Sulzbach, 1817. H. Coates, in Med. Chi'-. Trans. Vol. 10, p. 31 2, Sfc. Liveillt’s Noun lie Doctrine Chirurgiculc, T. 4, p. 125, <Sfc. Lussus, l a!ho-