POLYPUS. f)3i I I dually. In the latter circumstance, pains si- " ir to those of labour occur, and cause the tu- • to be expelled into the vagina. As soon as as arrived in this situation, and is no longer fined and compressed by the uterus, it begins ;row more rapidly, and gives rise to far more iblesome complaints; for it presses the blad- and rectum, and thus, more or less, disturbs evacuation of the urine and feces. Put, in licular, it causes repeated and profuse hemor- ;ges, which weaken the patient exceedingly, . often bring her to the brink of the grave, 'e root of the polypus is situated in the os ri, and is there so compressed, that the ■od in the tumor is prevented from returning ough the veins; consequently, all the vessels ome turgid, and the above effusions of blood the result. Though they generally cease ontaneously, the least circumstances cause •ir recurrence; such as slight concussions of : body in riding, walking, &e. In the mean ile, a quantity of mucous and aqueous fluid is ided, by which the patient’s strength is more duced. The polypus, the source of this blood d mucus, is frequently misunderstood, and the tient is in a perilous state. So necessary it in cases of preternatural discharge from e uterus, always to examine with the finger, /• vaginam. At length, after the polypus has been some me in the vagina, it begins to protrude exter- L.lly. This happens gradually or suddenly, )m some effort, or concussion of the body. ; ence, additional grievances are again excited, s the polypus cannot descend so low, without agging the fundus of the uterus downward with and occasioning a prolapsus of this organ, the itient, in walking, or standing, commonly ex- periences a very painful sense of dragging, or .retching, in the pelvis. As the bladder and reters are also forced into a deranged position, ae evacuation of urine is, more or less, dis- irbed, or rendered difficult. Lastly, the drib- iing of the urine over the polypus, and the fric- I ion which the part accidentally suffers, frequently ause it to inflame, and become painful, and ul- | lerated. A polypus, situated in the vagina, or protrud- I ng from it externally, may easily be mistaken 1 or a prolapsus uteri : an error, which, though lot difficult to avoid when a careful examination s made, may have very perilous consequences Ihe polypus is softer and less sensible, than the items in the stale of a prolapsus. The imper- fect prolapsus uteri, in which this viscus is not u .urned inside out, is betrayed by the os tincac, at U the lower part of which it is plainly perceptible. I In this situation, the polypus may occasionally have a depression, resembling the mouth of the womb, but easy of discrimination from it. A probe can be passed deeply into the os uteri; but, not so into this other opening. The polypus re- sembles an inverted pear, that is, it is thickest ^ow’ ar|d becomes gradually thinner upward. The above species of the prolapsus uteri is thin- nest below, and gradually increases in width up- ward. The fallen uterus may easily be pressed back, and when it is so, the patient experiences iclick Die polypus does not admit of being pressed back, and, during an attempt to do this, the patient is put to much inconvenience. A probe may be introduced by the side of the poly- pus deeply to the fundus uteri. When passed bv the side of the fallen uterus, it is very soon stopped at the upper part of the vagina, which has sunk down with the cervix of lids organ. A polypus, protruding externally from the vagina, may be much more easily distinguished from a perfect prolapsus uteri, without inversion. The os uteri at once characterizes the uterus, as it can here not only be felt, but seen. A probe may tie passed deeply into the vagina, along the side of the polypus; but, not so by the side of the uterus, for reasons easy of comprehension. The figure of the tumor, ami the state of the patient, on an efibrt being made to reduce the protruded part, also betray its real nature. The inversio uteri is usually the consequence of a difficult labour, and lienee is easily discri- minated from a polypus, by its occasional cause. While the inverted uterus lies in the vagina, its shape is broad above, and narrow below; whereas the polypus is thin above, and broad below. Hence, in eases of very large polypi in the va- gina, the os uteri is but little dilated ; while it is extremely distended by the incomplete descenl of the inverted uterus itself. Here, likewise, the reduction of the part is attended with relief; while every effort to push back a polypus causes an aggravation of all the complaints. When the inverted uterus hanjis out of the vagina, its figure, like that of the polypus, is thin upward, and broad downward; and, like the latter tumor, has no aperture at its lowest part. Here, an erroneous opinion is very liable to be formed. An attentive observer, however, will easily avoid it The inverted uterus includes a circular fold at its upper part, next to the orifice of the vagina. This fold is nothing less than the os uteri itself, through which the body of this viseus lias descended. There is nothing of this kind to be felt in cases of polypi. By the side of a polypus the finger or probe may be passed deeply into the vagina; but not so by the side of the uterus. The root of the polypus is firm and hard to the touch; the upper thin part of the uterus, which is hollow, has a soft flabby feel. Useful light is also generally thrown on the case, by the above-mentioned occasional cause of the prolapsus uteri with inversion. However, in particular cases, the diagnosis is much more dif- ficult^ and the observations of a modern writer fully prove, that it is always difficult, and perhaps sometimes impossible to distinguish a partial and chronic inversion of the uterus from a po- lypus. (W. Ncwnham, Essay on the Symptoms, Causes, and Treatment of Inversio Uteri, with the History of ihe successful Extirpation if that Organ, during (he Chronic Stage of the Disease, p. 82, fyc. Hro. Loud. 1818; also First Lines of Ihe Practice of Surgery, Vol. 2, p. 317.) In the two'last descriptions of uterine polypi, situated either on the inside of the cervix, or at the margin of the os uteri, the disease is, as it were, from its commencement in the vagina, and the tumor, when large, produces all the .com- plaints attending polypi of the first kind, except frequent profuse bleedings. Ihesu seldom oc- cur, and when they do, are slight, because the root of the polypus suffers no constriction in the os uteri. As the tumor descends out of the