935 STAPHYLOMA. h atomy.) The termination of the groove, at he end of the instrument, should be closed, so s to stop the further entrance of the gorget, nd prevent the beak of the latter instrument rom doing mischief. English surgeons have >een justly censured by Desault, and Sabatier, I :r neglecting this essential caution ; for, cer- ainlv, the most fatal injury may be done by the orget slipping beyond the end of the staff. .See Lithotomy.) For my own part, if I am lore sure of any one thing in surgery', than i mother, it is this, that the beak of a gorget in j ue bladder ought never to pass out of, or beyond t he groove of the staff! STAPHYLOMA, (from r<*puk>7, a grape, ■om its being thought to resemble a grape.) Is hat diseasa of the eyeball, in which the cor- ea loses its natural transparency, rises above :ie level of the eye, and even projects beyond he eyelids, in the form of an elongated, whitish, r pearl-coloured tumor, which is sometimes mooth, sometimes uneven, and; according to Scarpa, attended with total loss of sight. How- ver, staphyloma is either partial, or total, that i to say, it affects only a part, or the whole of he cornea; and, in the first case, if there be not 00 much additional injury of the eye, a degree f vision may yet be left, and even admit of urther improvement. The circumstance of Scar- e's observations applying only to cases, in which :ie eyesight is already destroyed, accounts for ime important differences between him and ther writers, who, in the practice which they dvise, refer to the partial staphyloma, and ises, in which the sight is not quite annihilated, carpa does not mention adhesion of the iris to le diseased corpea, as a part of the definition of taphyloma; a point in which he differs both from tichter and Beer. (Lchrc von den Augenkr. ?. 2, p. 69.) Yet, Scarpa may be correct; for lough, as Mr. Wardrop remarks, “ the internal urface of the cornea adheres to the iris in almost very case of staphyloma,” (Essays on the Morbid Anat. of the Eye, Vol. 1, p. 101.) et, as it does not invariably do so, the circum- tance forms no essential part of the nature of he disease. In some instances, Mr. Wardrop as sceii the opacity confined to one half of the ornea, and this generally the lower one. {Vol. It.p. 100.) Scarpa observes, that infunts are often attacked y this disease soon after their birth, and mostly 1 consequence of the purulent ophthalmy. It is so produced by the small-pox, yet never during s eruption, which is singular; nor during the age of suppuration; but, when the pustules ry, and even after the detachment of the vari- ous scabs. In a great number of subjects, says Scarpa, hen the staphyloma has attained a certain ele- ction above the cornea, it becomes stationary, ' only increases in due proportion to the rest of ie eye. In other instances, the small tumor of •e cornea enlarges in all its dimensions, and in <ch a disproportion to the rest of the eye, that length it protrudes considerably between the vclids, to the great molestation and deformity the patient. I his disease is justly considered as one of the ost serious to which the eyeball is subject; for, the total and irremediable loss of sight that it occasions, are added all the evils which necessa- rily result from the bulk and protuberance of the staphyloma, after the swelling of the cornea has acquired such a size, that it cun no longer be covered by the eyelids, In such circumstances, the continual exposure of the eyeball to the con- tact of the air, and particles of matter sus- pended in it; the friction of the eyelashes; the incessant flux of tears down the subjacent cheek ; render the eye painful and inflamed ; the sound one is affected by sympathy, and the diseased one at length ulcerates, together with the lower eyelid and cheek, on which it presses. According to Richter {Ohs. Chir. Fasc. 2.), staphyloma is generally formed, without the swelling of the cornea being preceded by any of those morbific dispositions, which are generally considered capable of weakening the texture and elasticity of the cornea; which, in fact, acquires a much greater thickness, than what it has in its natural state, and, consequently, staphyloma, far from being concave within, is every where com- pact and solid ; though it ought to be quite the contrary, if the tumor were occasioned, as Beer yet appears to believe, by an immoderate disten- tion, operating on the cornea from within out- ward, with absorption of its natural texture. Scarpa thinks, that Richter has generalized his doctrine too much, by not drawing any line of distinction between the staphyloma of recent occurrence in infants, and that of adult subjects, in whom the disease has acquired so large a vo- lume, as to protrude considerably beyond the eyelids- He agrees with Richter, that the re- cent staphyloma in infants is quite compact and solid, on account of the augmented thickness of the cornea ; but he is convinced by repeated ob- servation, that, in this very same staphyloma, originally quite solid and compact, the cornea becomes thinner, or, at all events, is not thicker than natural, after the disease has existed a series of years in adult subjects, and in whom the swelling of the cornea has attained such a size as to protrude between the eyelids. The tumor, he observes, is not solid throughout, except in regard to its containing, in its amplified state, the iris, the crystalline, and very often, also, a portion of the vitreous humour. The cornea of infants, in its natural state, is, at least, twice as thick and pulpy as that of adults, and, consequent!)', the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, in the former, is com- paratively so contracted, to what it is in the latter, that, in infants at the breast, the cornea may be considered as in contact with the iris. To such qualities of the cornea, in children of tender years, and to the natural narrowness of the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, Scarpa imputes, the cause, why ophthalmies in infants so often produce opacity and thickening of this membrane. The cornea swells, becomes preternaturally thickened, and is very soon con- verted into a pointed, whitish, or pearl coloured tumor, without any cavity internally, and either in perfect contact with, or adherent to, the iris. In the course of years, however, Scarpa remarks, that this disease undergoes new modifications. For, as the whole eye enlarges with age, the iris, and crystalline, from causes not sufficiently un- derstood, abandon their natural situation, and are propelled forward, nearer and nearer to the