FUNGUS. 509 fungus hsematodes is cut away, and only ft small portion of its cyst is left behind, that the fungus is reproduced from this part, and soon becomes as formidable, nay more formidable, than it was before, and this notwithstanding the application of the' most powerful escharotics. Neither the hvdrargyrus nitratus ruber, the hydrargyrus niuriatus, the antimonium muriatum, nor the undiluted vitriolic acid, have always been able to repress the growth of such fungus. {Hey.) There is no remedy, that has the power of checking, or removing the complaint. Friction, with anodyne balsams, sometimes gives relief in the earlv stages; but, it does not retard the pro- gress of the disease. In short, the only chance of cure consists in extirpating the whole of the distempered parts, removing not only the soft, brain-like, fungous substance, but every particle of the cysts, sacs, or pouches, in which it may be contained. An operation of this kind, however, is only advisable in the early stages, while the disease is entirely local, if it ever be so, a circumstance much to be doubted; for, after the neighbouring glands have become affected, the chance of recovery is almost destroyed. It is sometimes difficult, however, to persuade patients at an early period to submit to amputation, or extirpation, because the pain and inconveniences are inconsiderable; but, the ope- ration ought to be urged with all the force, which a conviction of its absolute necessity, and the fatal peril of delay, ought to inspire. The attempts to cure the disease, by cutting it away, have been attended with such ill-success, that some surgeons deem it advisable not to fol- low this method, but amputate the limb at once. The annexed views of the matter appear to me to be most judicious and rational. First, that if an attempt be made to cut away the tumor, and save the limb, the surgeon must be careful to remove, at the same time, a considerable quantity of the soft parts in the circumference of the swelling. Secondly, that the earlier this is done, the more likely is it to succeed. Thirdly, that, after the tumor is taken out, an attentive examination of the surface of the wound should be made, and every suspicious part, or fibre, be cut away. Fourthly, that, should the disease still recur, amputation ought to be instantly performed. Fifthly, that caustics should never be applied to this disease. Sixthly, that, even when one of these operations effectually extirpates the dis- temper of the limb, the patient’s entire recovery 8 always rendered exceedingly uncertain, by *eason of the viscera, and other invisible parts, reing frequently affected, at the time of the ope- ration, with the same sort of disease. FUNGUS H^EMATODES OF THE TESTICLE. 3. I- ungus hrematodes of the testicle some- imes begins in its glandular part, sometimes in he epididymis. Its progress is slow, and the Jam generally not severe. Nor is there, at first, my inequality or hardness, of the diseased part, 'or change in the scrotum. When the testicle ■as become exceedingly large, it feels remarkably I ™ and elastic, as if it contained a fluid. Hence, ''c case has often been mistaken for a livdroeele, ‘"d punctured with a trocar. {Wurdivp ■ Earle n * * Liar. I ravs. Vat. 3, ]>. GO.) Occn- inna y, when the tumor is large, it is in some places hard, in others soft. The livdroeele may be known by the water beginning to collect at the bottom of the scrotum, and then ascending towards the spermatic cord, and by the swelling being circumscribed towards the abdominal ring ; whereas the fungus hmmatodes begins with a gradual enlargement of the testicle itself, follow- ed by a fulness, which extends up the spermatic cord. It is not in the slightest degree diapha- nous, and is much heavier, than a similar bulk of water. {Earle, op. cit.) As the disease ad- vances, abscesses form, and the scrotum ulcer- ates ; but no fungus shoots out. When the in- guinal glands become contaminated, they often acquire an immense size; and, when the skin over them bursts, large portions of them slough away. Fungus haematodes of the testicle is said to afflict young, more frequently than old subjects. On dissection, the substance of the diseased testicle is found to present a medul- lary, or pulpy appearance, generally of a pale brownish colour, though sometimes red. In most cases, the tunica vaginalis and tunica al- buginea are adherent together; occasionally there is fluid between them. In an example, dissected by Mr. Lawrence, the swelling of the testicle consisted of cellular septa, filled with pulpy matter. Numerous tu- bercles of the disease were found in the omen- tum, and about the pelvis, intermixed with re- cently effused coagula. A mass of soft matter, equal in size to a man’s head, lay on the spine, behind the aorta and vena cava, which last vessel was closed, for some extent. The spermatic ves- sels could not be found. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, Part 1, art. 13.) The only chance of a cure must be derived from a very early performance of castration, be- fore the disease has extended to the inguinal glands, or far up the spermatic cord. Indeed, very little hope should be placed in the removal of the testicle; for, fungus haematodes appears to be rather a constitutional, than a local disease. Nearly every case on record has terminated fa- tally, and, upon dissection, either the liver, the lungs, the brain, the mesenteric glands, or other internal parts, have been found affected with the same disease. In one case, dissected by Mr. Lawrence, tubercles of a similar structure to the disease in the axilla, were found in the lungs, heart, and, in short, in nearly all the thoracic and abdominal viscera, though the contents of the skull were free from disease. (See Cases re- corded by War drop, Earle, Lawrence, and Lang- stafi, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 3 and 8.) We shall quit this subject with^stating some of the principal differences between two diseases, which have been commonly confounded. A scirrhous tumor is, from its commencement, hard, firm, and incompressible, and is composed of two substances ; one hardened and fibrous, the other soft and inorganic. The fibrous mat- ter is the mo?t abundant, consisting of septa, which are paler than the soft substance between them. A scirrhous tumor, situated in a gland, is not capable of being separated from the latter part, so much are the‘ two structures blended. A scirrhus, in another situation, sometimes con- denses the surrounding cellular substance, so as to form a kind of capsule, and assume a circum scribed appearance. When a scirrhous swelling