574 HEAD. occasions extravasation of the fluid, which should circulate through them. This extravasation may be the only complaint produced by the accident; or it may be joined with, or added to, a fracture of the skull. But, this is not all, for it may be produced not only when the cranium is unhurt by the blow, but even when no violence of any kind has been offered to, or received by the head.” ihe effused blood may lie between the cra- nium and dura mater, between the latter mem- brane and the pia mater; or in the substance, or cavities of the brain. The first species of extra- vasation, which is observed to be always more or less circumscribed, may occur at any part of the skull, but, when situated at its base, is generally fatal. In the second, the blood is widely scattered about between the duramaler and araehnoides, and on this account, unless its quantity be very con- siderable, it does not cause any great degree of pressure. In the third example, if the blood be situated in the convolutions, it is also widely dif- fused, but. if it be within the substance, or ven- tricles, of the brain, it is circumscribed. (CEu- vrcs Chir. de Desault par Bicliat, T. 2, p 23.) Sometimes, in cases of great violence, as Mr. Pott has justly observed, the blood is found at the same time in all these different parts. When blood is extravasated beneath the skull, the violence, which produces the rupture of the vessel, usually stuns the patient, from which state, provided the quantity and pressure of the blood, and the force of the concussion be not too great, he gradually recovers, and regains his senses. If the first extravasation be trivial, the patient, after regaining his senses, may only feel a litile drowsiness, and go to bed. The bleeding from the ruptured vessel continuing, and the pressure on the brain increasing, he becomes m.creand more insensible, and begins to breathe in a slow, interrupted, stertorous man- ner. In cases of compression, whether from block! or a depressed portion of the skull, there is a general insensibility ; the eyes are half open; the pupils dilated, and motionless, even before the vivid light of a candle; the retina is insensible ; the limbs relaxed ; the breathing stertorous ; the pulse slow, and, according to Mr. Abernethy, less subject to intermission, than in cases of concus- sion The absence of stertor, however, as this gentleman admits, must not be relied upon, as a proof of there being no compression ; for, Mor- gagni relates dissections of apoplectic persons, in whom the effusion was considerable, yet no sterfflfr occurred. In a case of wound of the posterior part of the skull, with depression, seen by Dr. J. Thomson, the pulse at one time sunk as low as 36 strokes in a* minute. This eminent professor, however, is at variance with Mr. Abernethy upon one point, bv stating, that irregularity of the pulse is a very frequent attendant upon compressed brain. (Revolt of Observations, <-$ c. p. 54, 55.) Some- time's convulsions arose from the pressure of portions of the skull, driven in upon the brain. This is a very dangerous symptom ; but. Dr. Thomson saw it cease in a few examples, after the depressed piece of bone had been e evated, and the antiphlogistic regimen adopted. (J’.60 ) Convulsions, I am disposed to regard with Bichat, rather .as a symptom of injury oi the brain, than of compression. ((Euvrcs Chir. dc Desault, T. 2, p.27.) Indeed, the difficulty of the diagnosis of many cases may be well conceived by what Dr. Hen- nen remarked, in his practice, viz. that, in some instances, the pupils were contracted, in others dilated, where the injury was nearly of a simi- lar nature and degree; while, sometimes, in the same patient, one pupil was dilated, and the other much contracted. He saw, also, paralysis occur on one side, and convulsions on the other, when the blow had been on the forehead, and the same when it had been on the occiput. (Op. cii. p. 300, 301.) The patient is hardly ever sick, when the pressure on the brain and the general insensi- bility, are considerable ; for the very action of vomiting betrays sensibility in the stomach and oesophagus. These symptoms are not peculiar to pressure from blood, but arise also from that of many depressed fractures of the skull, and of suppuration under this part. They are all attri- butable to the unnatural pressure made on the brain and nerves, and have too often been mis- taken, as indications of an injury, which, con- sidered abstractedly, can never cause them ; we allude to a simple undepressed fracture of the cranium, which may be accompanied with them, but cannot cause them. They differ in degree, according to the quantity, kind, and situation of the pressing fluid. The hemorrhage from the nose and ears, which often follows violence ap- plied to the head, leads to no particular or use- ful inference: we cannot even calculate, by this sign, that the force has exceeded a certain degree; for, such bleedings take place, in some persons, from much slighter causes than in others* Paralysis is a symptom, which generally at- tends hurtful pressure on the brain. The par- ticular circumstances, however, which determine its degree, extent, and situation, are not well understood. “ In some instances of paraly- sis from sabre-wounds, as well as in those made by gun-shot, (says Dr. J. Thomson) paraly- sis was confined to the upper, and in others to the lower extremity. In every instance, in which it distinctly appeared, that the injury existed on one side of the head, the paralysis unifon/Hy manifested itself upon the other; but, we were unable to perceive any other fixed rela- tion, between the part of the brain, which had been injured, and the part of the body affected with palsy. A wound of the right parietal bone bv a musket-ball was followed by palsy of the left, arm and leg. In another case, a wound, penetrating the upper pait of the right parietal bone, was accompanied with a slight paralytic affection of the left side of the mouth, and com- plete palsy of the left leg In a third case a sabre-wound of the same bone, followed by ex- tensive exfoliations, gave rise to a complete palsy of the left side.” (Observations made in 'the Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 52, 53 A With respect to paralysis, it is unquestionably one of the common symptoms of pressure on the brain ; but, according to Bit-hat, it may also be caused by concussion; and we know, that it may arise in cases of inflammation and suppuration, within the skull. The above statement respect-