AMPUT any unpleasant effect, in the cases, which have coino under his own observation.” According to Mr. Lawrence, the small knots of silk gene- rally separate early, and come away with the discharge; that whee the integuments have united by the first intention, the ligatures often come out rather later, with verytiifling suppura- tion, and that, in some instances, they remain quietly in the part. (()/>. at. T o/. 8, p. 490.) After the battle of Waterloo, it was tried in many cases both bv Mr. Collier, and myself, though our ligatures were certainly not so minute and eligible as those employed by my friend Mr. 'Lawrence. As I joined the army in the field after nine days, and was therefore obliged to leave my patients at Brussels to the care of others, I lost the opportunity of witnessing the eflects of this method. But, from Mr. Collier, I afterwards learned, that the new plan and the common one appeared in his judgment to answer about equally well, which report, considering that we did not use the smallest ligatures, must be regarded as favourable. When the plan is tried, single strong threads and silks, or rather the kind of ligature, which will be described in another place, (See Ligature) should be em- ployed : for, otherwise the knots would be large and likely to create suppuration and future trouble. The practice has likewise been tried by M. Delpech at Montpelier; but, it is not ex- plained whether he used single threads, or silks, or whether any inconveniences resulted from the method. (See Relation d’un Voyage fait d L uutres en 1814, ou Purallele (le la Chirnrgie Angloise avec la Chirnrgie Frangoise by P. J, Rom, 8a>. 1815.) Yet candour requires me to state, that the method is not universally adopted, and that one well informed writer, as I shall here- after notice, (See Hemorrhage) has recited a case and some experiments, which are unfavourable to the practice. (Cross, in Lund. Med. Rijiosi- tory. J ot. 7, p. 355.) Mr. Guthrie has also in two or three instances seen some ill looking abscesses arise from the presence of the bits of ligature, though he approves of the plan where the wound will not unite by the first intention, which, however, can rarely be known beforehand. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 941.) My friend, Mr. Downing, deputy inspector of military hospitals, formerly saw this practice tried; but he informs me, it did not answer, as repeated suppurations and discharges of bits of ligatures followed from time to time, after the patients conceived themselves cured. But, pro- bably, the large thick ligatures in common use some years ago, were here employed, and if this were the case, the experiments cannot be com- pared to that made with a minute ligature of dentist’s silk. Sometimes, the sawn surface of the bone itself bleeds rather profusely. When this happens, it is an excellent plan, which I have often seen my late master Mr. Ilamsden and others adopt with the greatest success, to hold a compress of lint over the end of the bone, during the time requi- site for securing the rest of the vessels. At the end of this period, the compress may generally be taken away, the bleeding from the bone having entirely ceased. As Monro remarks, the surgeon ought not to content himself with tying only such vessels, as he observes throwing out blood, 'ATI ON. 77 while the patient is faint with pain; he should endeavour to rouse him from that faintish state by a cordial, and then wiping off the coagulated blood with a sponge, wet in warm water, he should examine narrowly all the surface of the stump," for otherwise he may expect to be obliged by a fresh hemorrhage to undo all the dress- ings. (On Amputation uj the Larger Fitrevii- Lies, p. 475, Monro’s Works.) When there is merely an oozing from small vessels, Bromfield’s advice to loosen the tourni- quet completely, is highly proper, as this measure and washing the' stump with a little cold water, will put an entire stop to such bleeding, with- out any occasion for more ligatures. A good deal of blood is sometimes lost from the mouths of the larger veins, and where they bleed much in debilitated subjects, I think Dr. Hennen is right in recommending them to be tied. (On Military .Surgery, p. 264.) There is no neces- sity for doing so, however, in ordinary cases, nor should I be disposed to imitate Mr. Hey, who, in consequence of having seen a few in- stances of bleeding from the femoral vein, gene- rally inclosed that vessel in the ligature along with the artery. (Practical Ohs. in Surgt ry, p. 530, Ed. 2.) This method, however, was sanctioned by Desault, who says, that if the vein be left open, and the bandage at the upper part of the limb be too tight, the flood regurgi- tates downwards, and hemorrhage takes place, as this surgeon assures us, he has often seen. When the vein and artery lie close together, as often happens, one branch of the forceps is to be introduced into the artery, and the other into the vein, which being done, the two vessels are to be drawn out together, and in- cluded in one ligature, but, if they are not so near together, they must be tied separately. ( (Euvres- Chir. etc Desault par Bichat, T. 2, p. 550, 8vo. Paris, 1801.) At St. Bartholomew^, it is not the usual practice to tie the femoral vein, though it has been occasionally done; and, except in particular cases, I consider the custom wrong, because a ligature on a large vein sometimes excites a dangerous and fatal inflammation within the vessel, while the intervention of the vein between the one side of the circle of the ligature and the artery, must rather tend to hinder the thread from operating in the most desirable man- *ner upon the latter vessel. The wound is now to be evenly closed with strips of sticking plaster, so that the edges of the cut skin may form only a straight-line across the face of the stump. This was the mode com- mended by Alanson, and is what is preferred by the generality of the best surgeons in this country. It is also advised by Graefe. (Dor- men fiir die Altl. grosserer Gliedm. p. 106. Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds, p. 208 ) Over these plasters and the ends of the ligatures, it is best to place some pieces of lint, spread with the unguentum spermatis ceti, in order to keep such lint from sticking, which becomes an ex- ceedingly troublesome circumstance, when the dressings are to be removed. 1 am decidedly averse to the general plan of loading the stump with a large mass of plasters, pledgets, com- presses, flannels, &c.; and I see no reason, why the strips of adhesive plaster, and a pledset of simple ointment, should not suffice, when sup-