ANEURISM. 131 point, where the ligature had been applied, and the ease was completely successful. On the 28th November, 1 SI 7, in a case of popli- teal aneurism, Mr. Travers tied the femoral artery at one o’clock. On the 29th, at four in the afternoon, the ligature was removed without dif- ficulty, after having been on the vessel twenty- seien hours. At this period, no pulsation could be felt in the sac; but, at seven in the evening, a faint pulsation was perceptible. On the 30th, the pulsation, though very distinct, was less strong, than before the operation. On the 2d, 3d, and 6th of December, the pulsation is described as still continuing. On the latter day, pressure was applied by means of a roller from below the knee to the groin, and was continued for a month, during which time the pulsation in the sac evidently became more feeble. On the 10th of January, the tumor became tense, and severely painful, and no pulsation in it could be distin- guished. The next day, the swelling was more diffused and less prominent; and on the 12th, as the disease underwent no amendment, Mr. Travers tied the artery again, about two inches above the place, where the former ligature had been applied. The next day. the pain had dimi- nished. The ligature was afterwards allowed to separate of itself; and the case went on favour- ably to the cure. According to Mr. Travers, the first of these cases tends to prove, that the continuance oj the ligature upon the artery, for a period, of fifty hours, as certainly and completely answers the purpose of its application, as if allowed to remain until thrown offby the natural process. In the second case, Mr.Travers infers from the suspension of pain, and the diminished strength of the pulsation, for a month after the application of the temporary ligature, that a degree of im- pediment to the current of blood in the artery had been produced; circumstances, which once led "him to entertain hopes, that the cure of the aneurism was gradually accomplishing. At length, however, the increase of the tumor, and the aggravation of pain, and inflammatory symp- toms, dispelled such expectation, and it was thought necessary to tie the femoral artery a second time, and adopt the common mode. There are one or two points, about this case, on which the author does not particularly dwell, though they require consideration, ere one can form a correct judgment of the accuracy of one of his positions, “that non-pulsation of the sac is a sign auspicious, or otherwise, simply as it stands connected with increase or diminution of bulk, and pain.” (Med. Chit. Trans. Vo/. 9, /■• 415.) The first question is, how are we to account for the sudden accession of pain, the absence of pul- sation, the increase of the swelling, and the other changes which happened on the 10th of January? Judging from the particulars given, I should say, that at this period, the aneurismal sac gave way, and the disease changed from the circumscribed into the diffused form ; an alteration which would account for the pulsation being entirely lost, the increase of pain, and the extension of the swell- •ng, Ac.. Now, although the circumstance of t e sac giving way, or the increase of pain, swell- *ng, &e. on the 10th of January, may be taken as an argument, that the application of the liga- urc for twenty-seven hours, had failed in pro- ucmg obstruction enough in the vessel to retard the progress of the disease, we ought to remem- ber, that, at the time when these changes hap- pened, a trial of pressure was making, to which one might impute the change of the aneurism from the circumscribed to the diffused form, with quite as much probability, as to the enlargement of the sac by blood sent into it through the im- perfectly obliterated artery. However this may be, certain it is, that the second operation was done, when no pulsation existed in the swelling; and, perhaps, therefore, the case would have been doubly interesting, had the artery not been tied a second time, until circumstances had unequivo- cally proved, that this cessation of pulsation, attended as it was with an inflammatory state of the tumor, would not ultimately have ended in the cure of the disease. Here, however, I may be speaking rather in the spirit of an experimenter, whose curiosity has not been fully satisfied, than as a surgeon, who should always be governed by the paramount consideration of extricating his patient from dan- ger ; and, this will appear the more likely, when I add, that my mind has long been made up about the inexpediency of the temporary ligature, as an innovation in surgery. The last ease in- duced Mr. Travers to relinquish the temporary ligature; and amongst other reflections, which incline him to give up the practice, he candidly states, “ that the adhesive union is prevented by the inclosure of a foreign body in the wound, long before suppuration has commenced. Sup- puration is as certain to take place, though the ligature be removed after a few hours, as if it were left to be cast off; and the granulating pro- cess is more languidly performed, after an inter- ruption in its early stage, for the purpose of removing the obstacle to union, than where no such interruption has been given, and the obsta- cle has been removed by nature’s own means. Hence, it follows, that the theory, which, in removing the ligature within a given time, pro- posed the double advantage of a quicker, as well as a surer process, fails in both points, when brought to the test of practice upon the human subject.” (See Med. Chir. Trans, p. 416-17.) We have seen, that, when a temporary liga- ture, which had been applied to the brachial artery fifty hours, was withdrawn by Mr. Tra- vers, pulsation in the aneurismal tumor at the bend of the elbow did not return, and the disease was cured ; but, that, in another instance, where the ligature had been allowed to remain on the femoral artery only twenty-seven hours, a feeble pulsation was renewed a few hours afterwards in a popliteal aneurism, and as the,swelling became painful and more diffused, some weeks after this experiment, though no pulsation could then be perceived, the femoral artery was tied a second time, and the ligature left to separate in the usual manner. But, from a case more recently published, it would seem, that the employment of a temporary ligature for only tu-emn-lonr hours on the fe- moral artery, may obliterate the vessel, nm accomplish the cure ol a popliteal aneurism. The patient was a sea-faring man, aged 3~, and the operator, MrA Roberts, oi Carnarvon, Mr. Evans and Mr. Carrey, other surgin'18 o that town, being present at the application, an also at the removal of the ligature. Nn l’u sn 10 K 2