GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 547 vpogastrium, about one finger breadth above lie pubes, to the point of the left buttock, which orresponds to the ischiatic notch. Tlie direc- on of the wound, and the issue of feces mid rine from the two orifices left no doubt, that ie bladder and rectum were injured. M. Milioz, ho directed the surgical affairs of the division ’ the army under Kleber, diligently pursued e same kind of treatment which he had seen ,rrev adopt at the siege of Acre. During the ipurative stage, the patient was affected with ;er; and, after the sloughs were detached, the •charge was very copious. A catheter, that s passed into the bladder, prevented an extra- ction of the urine, and, at the same time, nnoted the union of the wound of that viscus. us was healed the first, and the patient, upon return to Cairo, was quite cured. Larrey has recorded several other interesting es of wounds, either of the bladder alone, or l t and the rectum together, to which I must iteut myself with referring. (See Mem. de ir. Milituire, T. 2, p- 160—165. T. 3, p. J, 4-c. T. 4, p. 296, #c.) V ball may go through both sides of the blad- , and then either perforate the neighbouring ts, and escape externally, or bury itself deeply the flesh. When it has gone quite through bladder, and afterwards passed out of the y again, urine, blended with blood, imme- ely issues from one or both apertures, accord- to their situation. The flow of urine through lrethra is either lessened, or completely sup- sed ; but, through this passage, the patient erally voids more or less blood. Acute and ssant pain is felt in the course of the wound, ther with a frequent painful desire to make •r, nausea, sometimes actual vomiting, and eme anxiety, and restlessness. Either in assage inwards, or its course outwards, the may have injured, or perforated the rectum, hich case, the urine passes into this bowel, mixing with the feces, is discharged from •.nus. hen a part of the bladder, towards the ea- of the abdomen, is injured, as, for instance, osterior surface which is covered by the meum, the urine is generally extravasated n the belly, and inflammation of the pre g membrane is the immediate consequence, inflammation spreads with rapidity, and :s all the viscera, producing vast distention abdomen, fever, coma, and other bad sym- >•, soon terminating in gangrene, and death, vi/, Mdm.de Clur. MU. J. 4, p. 292—93.) ring the first four and twenty hours, very trine escapes from gun-shot wounds of the t, in consequence of the swelling, which i instantly affects the lips of the wound, the bladder is full, this fluid is discharged t the moment of the accident, and mostly rom the wound, by which the ball has made t. An extravasation is prevented by the ,ti ’l°ugb, which fills all the track of the in- J|j nd it is not till the deadened parts become II that any effusion can happen. Hence, it the highest importance to introduce ■sl,c gum catheter into the urethra, where fid be kept, and the instrument should be enough to fill exactly this canal; for, mfi f° Huron Larrev’s observations, if at the period, when the sloughs arc detached, (he urine has not a ready passage outward, it passes through the wound, and is extravasated the more readily, inasmuch as the separation of the sloughs has occasioned many openings, by which the fluid may insinuate itself into the cellular mem- brane. Hence, gangrenous mischief and death- On two points, my own experience would not lead me to join in the sentiments of Larrey; first, in opposition to his statement, I am sure, that there is risk of extravasation of urine earlier than the period, which he specifies, having known this accident commence as it were within a few hours after the receipt of the wound; and there- fore, I should not depend upon the sloughs being always at first a complete barrier to extravasation of urine, (indeed, their formation throughout the whole track of a gun-shot wound is by no means a regular occurrence,) but invariably pass a catheter as soon as possible, for the more cer- tain prevention of this dangerous consequence. Secondly, the period of the separation of sloughs, may, indeed, often be contemporary with the first appearance, or symptoms of extravasation, par- ticularly in cases where the employment of the catheter is for some time deferred, as in Baron Larrey’s practice, because then a partial extra- vasation of the urine, soon after the injury, and previous to the introduction of the catheter, will cause rapid sloughing, and actually prevent the adhesive inflammation from closing up the cavi- ties of the cellular membrane in time to prevent a fatal extension of that irritating fluid amongst the surrounding parts. Were it not for the partial early effusion of urine, no doubt, the adhesive inflammation would, in these cases, soon have the same effect, in obviating the dan- ger of urinary extravasation, which it has after lithotomy, or paracentesis of the bladder. (See Bladder.) It is the practice of Baron Larrey to dilate the wounds, in order to facilitate the escape of the urine, which might otherwise lodge in the track of the ball; and perhaps, here the method may frequently be right, though I should conceive its propriety must usually depend upon whether the urine has a tendency to continue to flow out through the wounds, or not, and upon the pre- sence of obstruction, or not. And, in confirma- tion of this opinion, I may cite Dr. Hennen’s declaration, that, in these cases, he has very rarely found it necessary to enlarge the wound, when the catheter and proper dressings have been employed. (On Military Surgery, j>. 421. Ed. 2.) And, as soon as possible, aiarge elastic gum catheter should be introduced, and left in the urethra, taking care to withdraw it, and pass in a clean one every two or three days, so that no incrustations may occur. Sometimes, how- ever, the passage of a catheter is very difficult, as is the case, when there are splinters of bone in the urethra, or .the parts about the neck oi the bladder are inflamed. (jM/m de C/iir. Milt- tairc, T. 4, p. 294.) Emollient clysters, and acidulated demulcent drinks are to be pre- scribed, and the patient is to be kept upon a very low regimen, and in the most quiet state. The dressings are to be light and simple, and cleanliness observed. (Op. cit. T. 2, p. !65— 160.) Instead of camphorated embrocations to the abdomen, another means commended bv N N 2