®*0 HERNIA. occurs in the linea alba near the navel, may be discriminated. The first, whether in the infant, or the adult, has a roundish neck, or pedicle, at the circum- ference of which the aponeurotic edge of the umbilical ring can be felt. Whatever may be its size, its body always retains nearly a spheri- cal shape. Neither at its apex, or its sides, is any wrinkling of the skin, or any thing like the cicatrix of the navel, distinguishable. Iri some points of the surface of the tumor, the skin is merely somewhat paler and thinner, than else- where. On the contrary, the hernia of the linea alba has a neck, or pedicle, of an oval form, like the fissure, through which it is protruded. The bod)’ of the tumor is also constantly oval. If the finger be pressed deeply round its neck, the edges of the opening in the linea alba can be felt; and, if the hernia be situated very near the umbilical ring, the cicatrix of the navel may be observed upon one side of it, which cicatrix retains its ru- gosity and ail its natural appearance; a certain indication, that the viscera are not protruded through the umbilical ring. (Scarpa, Traitd des Hermes, p. 33 G.) The distinction, which Scarpa has established between the umbilical hernia, proper])' so called, and those of the linea alba, is not useless in re- gard to practice. Indeed, when the latter are left to themselves, they make much slower pro- gress, than the former. On account of their smallness, they frequently escape notice, par- ticularly in fat persons, and, when situated at the side of the ensiform cartilage. They occasion, however, complaints of the stomach, habitual colics, especially after meals ; and, unfortunately for the patient, he may be tormented a very long time by these indispositions, before the true cause of them is discovered. The umbilical hernia may be known, from the earliest period of its formation, by the alteration, which it produces in the cicatrix of the navel, and the rapidity of its increase. In other respects, these two kinds of hernias demand the same means of cure; but those of the linea alba, cateris paribus, are more dif- ficult to cure, than ruptures at the umbilicus. This is probably owing to the natural tendency, which the umbilical ring has to close, when the hernia is kept well reduced, whilst accidental openings in the linea alba, have not the same advantage. (Scarpa, p. 340.) When a common ventral hernia is reduced, it should be kept in its place by means of a band- age or truss. When strangulated, it admits, more frequently, than most other cases, of being relieved by medical treatment. If attended with stricture, which cannot otherwise be relieved, that stricture must be carefully divided. Mr. A- Cooper recommends the valvular incision, and the dilatation to be made, either upward or down- ward, according to the relative situation of the tumor and epigastric artery, which crosses the lower part of the linea semilunaris. Pudendal Hernia.—This is the name as- signed bv Mr. A. Cooper, to the hernia which de- scends between the vagina and ramus ischii, and forms an oblong tumor in the labium, traceable within the pelvis, as far as the os uteri. He thinks, that this case has sometimes been mistaken for a hernia of the foramen ovale. When reducible, a common female bandage, or the truss used for a prolapsus ani, should be worn. A pcssarv, unless very large, could not well keep the parts from descending, as the protrusion happens so far from the vagina. Mr. A. Cooper is of I opinion, that, when strangulated, this hernia, in consequence of the yielding nature of the parts, may generally be reduced, by pressing them with gentle and regular force, against the inner side of the branch of the ischium. If not, the warm bath, bleeding, and tobacco glvsters, are advised, j Were an operation indispensable, the incision should he made in the labium, the lower part of the sac carefully opened, and, with a concealed bistoury, directed by the finger, in the vagina, the stricture should be cut directly inward, to- j | wards the vagina. The bladder should be emp- tied, both before the manual attempts at reduc- tion and the operation. (On Crural Hernia, §c- V- 64.) Vaginal Hernia.—A tumor occurs within the os externum. It is elastic, but not painful. When compressed, it readily recedes, but, is re- produced by coughing, or even without it when the pressure is removed. The inconveniences pro- duced are an inability to undergo much exercise or exertion ; for, every effort of this sort brings on ■ j a sense of bearing down. The vaginal hernia pro- trudes in the space, left between the uterus and rectum. This space is bounded below by the peritonaeum, which membrane is forced down- wards towards the perinaenm ; but, being unable to protrude further in that direction, is pushed towards the back part of the vagina. In one case, Mr. A. Cooper advisecT the use of a pes- sary, but the plan was neglected. Probably, these cases are always intestinal. Some hernias protrude at the anterior part of the vagina (A Cooper on Crural Hernia, See. p. 65, G6‘.) Per in real Hernia. — In men, the parts pro- trude between the bladder and rectum ; in women, ? between the rectum and vagina. The hernia does not project, so as to form an external tumor, and, in men, its existence can only be distin- guished by examining in the rectum. In women, it may be detected both from this part, and the vagina. In case of strangulation, perhaps, this hernia might he reduced by pressure from within the rectum. An interesting case of perinaeal hernia, I which took place from the peritonaeum being wounded with the gorget in lithotomy, is related | by Mr. BromfieM; Chlrurgical Ohs. p. 264. The reducible perinseal hernia in women, may I I be kept from descending, by means of a large J pessary. Both this kind of rupture and the va- l r ginal may prove very dangerous in cases of preg- nancy. (See Sm cl lie's Midwifery, Case 5.) Thyroidcal Hernia, or Hernia ForaminU I Ovale. In 'he anterior and upper part of the j obturator ligament, there is an opening, through which the obturator artery, vein, and nerve pro- I j ceed, and through which, occasionally, a piece of j omentum, or intestine is protruded, covered with ■ r a part of the peritonaeum, which constitutes the hernial sac. In the case, which Mr. A. Cooper met with, the hernia descended above the obturatores mus- cles. The os pubis was in front of the neck of a