FIN ever, that many fingers are amputated, which might be preserved, and surgeons ought to consider well, before presuming to remove parts, which, when curable, may become of the greatest con- sequence. in regard to the perfection of the hand. The bread of many persons, it is well known, de- pends on the unmutilated state of certain fingers. These remarks are offered, because I have seen several surgeons, fond of seizing every op- portunity of cutting their fellow creatures, re- move fingers, which might have been usefully saved, either by allotting a little more time for the exfoliation, or by making incisions, and cutting i out the dead piece of bone. Fingers, Dislocations of. See Dislocation. Fingers, Fractures of. See F> acture. Fingers supernumerary. The instances of children born with a smaller number of fingers, than natural, are more rare, than cases in which the number is greater, than usual. Of the latter malformation, examples were noticed in times j of great antiquity. Thus, in the 1st Book of Chronicles is the following notice of such an I occurrence: “ There was war at Gath, where was a man of great stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, six on each hand, and six on each foot.’’ (Chap. xx. Verse 6.) Ann I Boleyn, so celebrated for her beauty and her mis- fortunes, had six fingers on her right hand. Pliny, the naturalist, speaks of two sisters, who had six fingers upon each of their hands. In the ' Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Sciences for i 1743, is the account of a child, which was shewn l .at one of the meetings, and had six toes on each ; f foot, and the same number of fingers on each hand. In each foot, there were six metatarsal bones, and the left hand an equal number of I metacarpal bones; but, in the right hand, there I were only five, the outer one of which had two . articular surfaces, one for the little, and the other • for the supernumerary finger. In the Copenhagen I i Transactions, T. Bartholine has inserted the de- ij scription of a very curious skeleton: on the right hand, there were seven fingers; on the left six; and, besides these circumstances, the thumb was 111 double. On the right foot, there were eight toes; i on the left, nine; the right metatarsus consisting i j of six bones; the left, of seven. Saviard speaks t i of a still more curious case: he saw a new-born I infant at the Hotel Dieu at Paris, which had ten . I fingers on each hand, and ten toes on each foot: j the phalanges seemed, as if they were all in a I j broken imperfect state. (Obs. de Chir.) The example of the greatest number of fingers and :oes is recorded by Voight; including the thumb, ■ i here were thirteen fingers on each hand, and welve toes on each foot. (Mag.jurdasneueste Ur .Wuturkunde, 3 B, p. 174.) Individuals are jccasionally born with two thumbs on the same land. (Panarolus. Pentcc, .3, Obs. 4—8.) Since allowing the redundant number of fingers o remain would keep up deformity, and create uture inconvenience, the surgeon is called upon o amputate them. The redundant fingers are ■ometimes with, sometimes without a nail; are eldom more numerous than one upon each hand; ire generally situated just on the outside of the •ttle fingers; and, as far as my observation ex- ends, are incapable of motion, in consequence *. I?0t furnished, like the rest of the fingers, > ith muscles. The phalanges are also mostly im- FIS 445 perfectly formed, or deficient. The best plan is to cut off supernumerary fingers with a scalpel, at the place, where they are united to the other part of the hand. 1 he operation should be performed, while the patient is in the infant state, that is to say, before the superfluous parts have acquired much size, and while the object can be accomplished with the least pain. The incisions ought to be made, so as to form a wound with edges, which will admit of being brought together with strips of adhesive plaster. As soon as the dressings are applied, the hemorrhage will almost always cease, without a ligature. FISSURE, (from fimlo, to cleave asunder.) A very fine crack in a bone is so called. FISTULA, in surgery, strictly means a sore, which has a narrow orifice, runs very deeply, is callous, and has no disposition to heal. The name is evidently taken from the similitude, which the long cavity of such an ulcer has to that of a pipe or reed. A fistula commonly leads to the situation of some disease keeping up sup- puration ; and from which place the matter cannot readily escape. No technical term has been more misapplied, than this; and no mis-interpretation of a word has had worse influence in practice, than that of the present one. Many simple, healthy abscesses, with small openings, have too often been called fslulous; and, being considered as in a callous state, the treatment pursued has in reality at last rendered them so, and been the only reason of their not having healed. FISTULA IN ANO. See Anus. FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. In correct language, this term can be applied only to one case, viz. that in which there is an ulcerated opening in the lachrymal sac, unattended with any tendency to heal, and from which opening a quantity of puriform fluid is from time to time discharged, especially when the lachrymal sac is compressed. Such has been the confusion, how- ever, prevailing respecting the nature of the dis- eases of the lachrymal passages, and so great has been the force of ancient custom, that down to the present time, the generality of British, as w'ell as foreign surgeons, imply by the expression, Jistu/a lachrymalis, several forms of disease, totally different from each other, and to only one of which the name is at all applicable. In order not to assist in perpetuating this absurd and er- roneous plan, from which nothing but mistakes and ignorance can result, I shall follow the example, pointed out by Beer, Schmidt, and our countryman, Mr. M‘Kenzie, and consider the various forms of disease, to which the lachrymal passages are subject, not under the head of fistula lachrymalis, but under the more sensible title, huckrumal Organs, Diseases of the. FISTULiE IN PERINAX). As Mr. A. Cooper has justly observed, incisions in the ure- thra generally heal with great facility; a lact, amply proved by the common result of the lateral operation ; but, when apertures are lormed in the urethra, either from diseased states of the constitution and the part together, or of the lat- ter alone, and when they are accompanied with any considerable destruction of the sides of the ure- thra, and of the corpus spongiosum, they are mostly very difficult of cure. (Surgical Issays, Part S', p. 211.) When the methods recommended for the re-