28 x AMAUROSIS. point of the retina, so that the patient is enabled to see objects plainly only when they are held in a particular direction before him ; while, in other directions, they are either quite invisible, or very indistinct. (.Beer, Lehre von den Augenkr. b. 2. p. 459, 60.) Professor Scarpa, of Pavia, has given an ex- cellent account of the prognosis in cases of amau- rosis. Some of his doctrines, however, founded on the humoral pathology, are hypothetical, and therefore purposely omitted in the following ac- count. It also deserves notice, that the case supposed to originate from injury of the supra- orbitary nerve, is not always incurable. Scarpa only knows of one such cure, viz. the example recorded by Valsalva. (Dissert. 2. § 11.) But additional instances are reported by Hey (Med. Ohs. and Inq. vol. 5.), by Larrey (Mdm. de Chir. Militaire, t. 4. p. 181.), and Dr. Hennen (Prin- ciples of Military Surgery, p. 346. ed. 2.) Ac- cording to Mr. Wardrop, it is only when this nerve is wounded, or injured, and not divided, that amaurosis takes place; for the blindness may sometimes be cured by making a complete divi- sion of the trunk nearest its origin. (Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, vol. 2. p. 180.) Amaurosis is divided by Scarpa into the per- fect, or imperfect; inveterate, or recent; and con- tinued, or pei'iodical. The perfect, inveterate amaurosis, attended with organic injury of the substance, constituting the immediate organ of sight, says Scarpa, is a disease absolutely incurable. The imperfect, re- cent amaurosis, particularly that which is period- ical, is commonly curable; for, it is mostly sym- pathetic with the state of the stomach and priinae viae, or dependent on causes which, though they affect the immediate organ of sight, are capable of being dispersed, without leaving any vestige of impaired organization in the optic nerve or retina. When amaurosis has prevailed several years, in persons of advanced age, whose eyesight has been weak from their youth ; when it has come on slowly, at first with a morbid irritability of the retina, and then with a gradual diminution of sense in this part, till total blindness was the consequence; when the pupil is motionless, not circular, and not much dilated; when it is widened in such a degree, that the iris seems as if it were wanting, and the margin of this opening is irre- gular and jagged; and, when the bottom of the eye, independently of any opacity of the crystal- line lens, presents an unusual paleness, like that of horn, sometimes partaking of green, and re- flected from the thickened retina, the disease may be generally set down as incurable. Kieser joins Scarpa in representing this alteration as an unfavourable omen, adding, that it only takes place in examples of long standing, and, that when it is considerable, the disease is incurable. Langenbeck differs, however, from both these authors, and particularly from Kieser, assuring us, not only that he has often seen this disco- louration of the bottom of the eye in the early stage of amaurosis, but seen patients in this state soon cured. The cases which he has published, in proof of this statement, I have read with care, and find them completely satisfactory. Laiigen- beck agrees with other writers in imputing the appearance to a morbid change of the retina, and the treatment which he prescribes consists in the internal exhibition of the oxymuriate of mercury in small doses, and friction with mercurial oint- ment on the eyebrow and temple. (See Langen- beck's Neue Bibl.fiir de Chirurgie, 1 b. p. 64— 69, $c. Gottingen, 1815.) Cases, says Scarpa, may be deemed irremedi- able, which are attended with pain all over the head, and a continual sensation of tightness in the eye-ball; which are preceded by a violent, protracted excitement of the nervous system, and then by general debility, and languor of the con- stitution, as after masturbation, premature verier}’, and hard drinking. There is no remedy for cases connected with epileptic fits, or frequent spasmo- dic hemicrania; nor for such as are the conse- quence of violent, long-continued, internal oph- thalmia. Cases are incurable, also, when pro- duced by violent concussions of the head, direct blows on the globe of the eye, or a violent con- tusion, or other injury of the supra-orbitary nerve, and this, whether the disease take place immediately after the blow, or some weeks sub- sequently to the healing of the wound of the eye- brow. Amaurosis is also incurable, when occa- sioned by foreign bodies in the eye-ball, lues venerea, or exostoses about the orbit. Lastly, amaurosis is absolutely irremediable, when con- joined with a manifest change in the figure and dimensions of the eye-ball. On the contrary, all cases of imperfect, recent amaurosis, whether the blindness be total or par- tial, are mostly curable, wThen not produced by causes, capable of contusing or destroying the organic structure of the optic nerve, and retina. This is especially true, when the retina is in some degree sensible to the impression of light. Re- cent, sudden cases, in which the pupil is not ex- cessively dilated, and its circle remains regular, while the bottom of the eye is of a deep black colour; cases, unaccompanied with any acute, continual pain in the head and eye-brow, or any sense of constriction in the globe of the eye it- self ; cases, which originate from violent anger, deep sorrow, fright, excessive fulness of the sto- mach, a foul state of this viscus, general plethora, or the same partial affection of the head, sup- pression of the menses, habitual bleedings from the nose, piles, &c. great loss of blood, nervous debility, not too inveterate, and in young sub- jects, are all, generally speaking, curable. Amau- rosis is also, for the most part, remediable, when produced by convulsions, or the efforts of difficult parturition ; when it arises during the course, or towards the termination of acute, or intermittent fevers; and when it is periodical, coming on at intervals, such as every day, every three days, every month, &c. (Scarpa, Osservaziani sulle Ma- lattie degli Occhi, cap. 20. Venez. 1802.) In general, when the treatment proves suc- cessful, the return of the power of vision is ac- companied with a regression of the same charac- teristic effects, which were disclosed in the gra- dual advance of the disorder, viz appearances as if there were before the eyes flashes of light, a cobweb, network, mist, or flaky substances. (Beer, Lehre von den Augenkr. b. 2. p. 460. TFicti. 1817.) Upon the commencement of the cure, there is also a return of the obliquity of sight; one of the most constant symptoms of imperfect amau-