BUBO. 247 be selected, must of course depend upon ilic nature of the case: in cases of cynanclie, the proximity of the inflamed parts would bean objection to luryn- gotomy; while, in examples of foreign bodies within the glottis, this operation may generally be most advisable, for reasons already explained. It is absurd to think of confining one mode of operating to different cases.” (See Medico-Chir. Trans. ! ul. 6, p. 248.) Of the operation, performed in the membra- ious space, Mr. C. Bell entertains a favourable .pinion. He directs us to slit up the membrane, ad open the incision with the handle of the knife, vhen the patient will immediately breathe with : use. Here, says he, there is nothing to alarm he most timid operator. No great turgid veins re opened; the cut is made above the thyroid land; and above the anastomosing branch of lie thyroid arteries. The part is strongly marked y the prominence of the thyroid cartilage above, aid the ring of the cricoid cartilage below. “ If ■ le occasion be temporary, a simple slit of the ■ lembrane will be found sufficient. If necessary, a ansverse cut will atford any degree of opening, fa round hole be desired, the four corners, left by le incisions, may be snipped oft”’ or the edges of le opening may be kept asunder by means of le doubled wire of a catheter, the middle part ol hich lies on the wound, while the ends are bent iund the neck, and tied by a ligature behind, t Mr. C. Bell’s cases, less annoyance was caused r this contrivance, than by a tube. The reader may collect the most valuable in- rmation on the foregoing subject from the fol- wiug sources: Hevin sur les corps Etrangers li sont an cles dans les premieres Vines, et qu’il :ut tircr pur incision, in Mem. de CAcad Royide Chirurgie, Tom. 3, p. 131, $c. edit. 12mo. ouis, Memoire sur une question Anatomique re- tire a la jurisprudence, ou l’on etablit lesprin- ■jes pour distinguer, a l'inspection aun corps uuve pendu, les signes du suicide d’avec ceux de issnssinat. J an Sudeten's Commentaries. Habi- t, Question Chirurgicule, par laquelle il est iic- on tr 6 que le Chirurgien doit assure!ment prati- er I'opration de la Bnmchotomie, §c. Vlmo. iris, 1620. Me noire sur la Branclwtomie par . Louis, in Mem. de l'Acad, de Chirurgie, Tom. ', Edit. \‘2mo. Second Memoire on this sub- ■t, inserted by the sameieriter in the said volume. S la rescission dcs Amygdales, Tom. 14, p. 283, • Precis d'Obscnationssur le Gmiflement tic la mgue, Sfc. par M. de la Malle, Tom. 14, p. 408. ■scure, sur un portion a'Amende de noyau Abricot, dans la Trochee Artere, Tom. 14, p. 7. Suite d’ Observations sur Us Corps Etran- •s dans la Truchde Artcrc, Tom. 14, p. 432. pericnces sur ecs Cas par M. Favier, Tom. 14, 445. Bertmndi, Truite des Operations de irurgie, p. 402, $v. Edit. 1784. Sabatier, de Me dec in e Opiratoire, Tom. 2, p. 283, Edit. ]. uvres Chir. de Desault pur Bichat, T. 2, 236, <£c. Pcllelan, Clinique Chirurgicule, 1. first Memoir. Cheyne, Pathology of llie rym and Bronchia, Edinb. 1809. A. Burns, rgical Anatomy oj'llie Head and Neck, p. 377, 401. J. E. Double Traili du Croup, 8ro. iru, 1811. Richter’s Anfangsgrunde der Wun- r-'ieykunst, Bund 4, p. 225, djr., Gottingen, 00. l,auircnce on some affections of the larynx, irh require the operation of Irronclwlomy, in edict)-Chirurgicul Truns. Vul. 6, p. 221, <5fc. Buillic in Trans, of a Society for the Improve- ment of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 3 .Trous- set-Drelincourt Corjis Strangers, aric.ds dans Us 1 oies acricnnes, Nouvenu Journ. de Med. par Bedard. Sfc. T. 7. p. 101. Philos. Trans. 1 / oO, A<>. 416, Art. 5, Journal dc Medccine, T. 38, p. 358. J. A. Albers Comm, de Tra- chitide Infantum, vulgo Croup vocata, 4lo. Lips. 1816. Case‘of Chronic Inf. of the Larynx, in which laryiigotomy was performed ; Sec Med. Chir. Journ. Apr. 1820. F. J. Baurlant dc Bronchotomia Diss. in Coll. Diss. Lovan. 2, 175. G. Detharding Epist. Med. de Metlwdo subveni- endisubmersisper laryngotomiam, Rostochii, 17 14. FlajuniOsservazioni,§c. di Chirurgiu, T. 3, Roma, 1802. R. Collarti, Abhandlung iiher den Croup, Soo. Hannov. 1814. T. Chevalier s Case if Croup, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 151, dfc. Andrce's Case, in Vol. 3, same work, v. 335, with the Obs. of Dr. Farre on Cynanche in the same part if llie work ; and those of Dr. Percival on the same sub- ject, in Vol. 4, p. 297. C. IV. Ebtrhard, Dc Musculis Rronchialibus in Statu et Mnrboia Aetione, 8vo. Marpurg. 1817. If. Sprengel, Geschi- ehteder Chirurgie. TIi. 1 .p. 177,8vo. Halle, 1805. Diet, des Sciences Med. Art. Bronclwlomie, 7. 3, 1812. Surgical Observations by C. Bell, Part 1, />. 14, <j!v. 8t>o. Land. 1816. Case of Cynanclie Laryngea, inquiring Tracheotomy, und the con- tinued use of a Cannula, ever since the Operation, in Med. Chir. Journ. Vol. 5, p. 1, 8ro. Lord. 1818. BUBO. (/3s&vv, the groin.) Modern sur- geons mean, by this term, a swelling of the lymphatic glands, particularly of those in the groin, and axilla. The disease may arise from the mere irritation of a local disorder ; from the absorption of some irritating matter, such as the venereal poison; or from constitutional causes. Of the first kind of bubo, that, which is named the sympathetic, is an instance. Of the second, the venereal bubo is a remarkable specimen. (Sec Venereal Disease.) The pestilential bubo, which is a symptom of the plague, and scrofulous swellings of the in- guinal and .axillary glands; may be regarded, as examples of buboes from constitutional causes. (See Serifalu.) The inguinal glands often become affected with simple phlegmonous inflammation, in consequence of irritation in parts, from which the absorbent vessels, passing to such glands, proceed. These swellings ought to be carefully discriminated from others, which arise from the absorption of venereal matter. The first cases are simple in- flammations, and only demand the application of leeches, the cold saturnine lotion, and the exhibi- tion of a few saline purges; but the latter diseases render the administration of mercury indispensable. Sympathetic is the epithet usually given to inflammation of glands from mere irritation; and, we shall adopt it, without entering into the ques- tion of its propriety. The sympathetic bubo is mostly occasioned by the irritation of a virulent gonorrhoea. The pain, which such a swelling gives, is trifling, compared witli that of a true venereal bubo, aris- ing from the absorption of matter, an^l it seldom suppurates. However, it has been contended, that the glands in the groin do sometimes swell and inflame from the actual absorption of vene- real matter from the urethra, in cases ol gonor-