70 AMPUTATION. to stand on the same side, as the limb he is about to amputate. This seems to be the only assign- able reason for this habit: for, when the left thigh is to be amputated, it is certainly some in- convenience to have the right limb, between the operator, and the one that is to be removed. But this is found less inconvenient, than not having the left hand next the wound. Mr. Guthrie, in speaking of amputations on the two lower thirds of the thigh, observes, that “in these cases, the tourniquet should be used;” but in operations high up the thigh, he joins all other surgeons in recommending the inguinal artery to be compressed against the os pubis. (On Gun- shot Wounds,]]. '202.) The utility of slackening the tourniquet completely, however, as soon as the principal vessels are secured, a piece of advice delivered by this excellent surgeon, I presume, cannot be right on the ground, which he speci- iies, viz. the impediment made by the strap of the instrument to the retraction of the muscles, and the consequent difficulty in high operations of sawing the bone, because in common practice, the bone is always sawn before any of the vessels are secured ; and loosening the tourniquet entirely, while any arterial branches still require the liga- ture, must generally be objectionable, if loss of blood be a disadvantage. In flap-amputations, high up the limb, indeed, where the arteries are sometimes tied, before the division of the bone, the employment of a tourniquet at all is quite out •of the question. We know, that it was an opinion of the late Mr. J. Bell, that the flow of blood through a large artery could not be completely stopped by pres- sure; and Mr. Hey of Leeds adopted a similar notion, in consequence of seeing a case, in which the application of two tourniquets to the thigh did not restrain the hemorrhage from a fungus haematodes of the limb. He says ; the pressure of the tourniquet does not completely obstruct the passage of blood in the arteries; it only dimi- nishes so much of the force of the current, as to enable the vessels, in a sound state, to exert their natural contractile power so effectually as to pre- vent hemorrhage. (See Hey’s Pract. Ob. p. 257- 258, Ed. 2.) Of the inaccuracy of this doctrine, no man can doubt, who sees the femoral artery with its open mouth on the face of a stump not bleeding, while the tourniquet is tight, or skilful pressure is kept up, but throwing out its blood to a gr’at distance, the instant the pressure is discon- tinued. Nor, I apprehend, can any surgeon, who has amputated at the shoulder, and seen how com- pletely pressure commands the flow of blood through the open-mouthed axillary artery, join in the^sentiment of John Bell and Hey upon this particular point. Here I can speak with con- fidence, because I have myself amputated at the shoulder, and assisted at this operation several times, and found the statements of the preceding writers perfectly and clearly contradicted. Were anv further testimony required, I might cite that „f"Dr. Hennen, who mentions, amongst other facts, that in a shoulder joint ease operated upon by Mr. Dense, the amount of blood, lost from the principal artery, was no more than the quan- tity contained between the point of pressure, and the point of incision through the vessels. (Prin- ciples of Military Surgery, p. 257, Ed. 2.) The same fact presented itself in the example, where I recently assisted Dr. Blicke, in private practice. How then are we to explain the occasional continuance of bleeding, notwithstanding the pressure of one, or even two tourniquets? With- out doubt, by the fact, that the pads of these in- struments, when not duly arranged, do more harm than good, by raising the band off'tlie ves- sel, and, perhaps also in Mr. Hey’s example, by the additional consideration, that tumors of the fungus haematodes kind, include a large quantity of blood, and will bleed profusely, and for a con- siderable time after the main supply of blood to them is cut off. The same thing happens in the disease, called aneurism by anastomosis, as I have had several opportunities of witnessing, but in no instance more strikingly, than in one, where, some time after Mr. Hodgson had tied the radial and ulnar arteries, Mr. Lawrence divided every part of the finger, excepting the tendons and bone, and yet a considerable bleeding went on from the further side of the wound. (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. 9, p 216.) The application of the tourniquet is generally left too much to assistants; but, as far as my judgment extends, no operator is justified in com- mencing his incisions, before he has examined and fully satisfied himself, that the instrument is correctly applied. Mr. Guthrie candidly tells-us, that he once lost an officer, in consequence of hemorrhage during the operation, although the tourniquet was in the charge of a surgeon of abi- lity; and the advice with which hefollowsthis state- ment, is worth recollecting : “ In a case of this kind, where it (the tourniquet) is found of little benefit, the surgeon should not continue twisting and turning it, whilst his patient is bleeding, but quit it altogether, and compress the artery against the pubis.” This maxim, I think, cannot be too highly commended. The shape and size of the pad of the tourni- quet are deemed by surgeons matters of import- ance. At St. Bartholomew’s, the pads employed are very firm, being composed of wood, or cork- covered with leather, and rather thicker than the thumb, the upper surface being flat, and the lower, which is put against the thigh, being convex. They are about an inch and a half in length. Such pads answer extremely well, as I can affirm from the observation of some hundreds of ampu- tations in that hospital. A common fault formerly was the employment of pads which were too large, and soft, and not judiciously shaped. As Mr C. Hutchinson remarks, the principal objection to a large pad is, that the band of the tourniquet is so much raised by it, that a considerable space is left on each side of it, where no compression, is made on the limb, however closely the instru- ment may be screwed, and thus, there will be a risk of hemorrhage from such vessels as happen to be in these situations. The same gentleman uses a pad, which is not thicker than a finger, and places it obliquely over the artery, so as to pre- clude the possibility of displacement. (Pract. Ohs. in Surgery, p. 21-23.) Mr. Guthrie says, “ the pad should be firm and rather narrow, and care- fully held directly over the artery, whilst the ends of the bandage, in which it is contained, are pinned on the thigh. The strap of the tourni- quet is then to be put round the limb, the instru- ment itself being directly over the pad, with the screw entirely free. The strap is then to be drawn tight, and buckled on the outside, so as to prevent its slipping, and not interfere with the