CALCULI. 1095 URINARY itt the generality of instances; for, when pa- tients are not exhausted by the tediousness of the disorder, when they are of a good constitu- tion, and in the prime of life, they get well as quickly and certainly with the aid of a good diet and simple dressings, as when they take internal medicines, and use a multiplicity of compound topical applications. The practice of Desault at the Hotel-Dieu, consisted in applying emollient poultices, until the sloughs were detached. The ulcer was then sometimes dressed with pledgets charged with styrax; but frequently mere dry lint was used, and continued till the cure was completed. If any complication occurred in t the course of the treatment, suitable remedies were prescribed for it. Thus, when prostration of strength, and tendency to sloughing existed, l bark, cordials, and antiseptics were ordered. But, in every case, the catheter is the essential means of cure; without it, the treatment is almost always imperfect, and the ulcer will not heal, without leaving several urinary fistulae. (See (EuvrCs Chir. dc Desault, par Bichat, T. 3, ;p. 277—287.) URINARY CALCULI. A true explana- tion of the nature of urinary calculi was quite impossible, before chemistry had made consider- able progress, and the methods of analysis had advanced a great way towards perfection; and as ' will appear, in the course of this article, all the ■ valuable knowledge, which now exists upon this : subject, is in reality the fruit of modern inves- tigations. It is to be regretted, however, that ■ our information on many points is far from being : settled, or complete, as any impartial and judi- icious reader may soon couvince himself by a . reference to the able and scientific views, lately t taken by Dr. Prout, of various questions, rela- tive to the formation of gravel and calculi, and the treatment of such cases in all their varieties. (See An Inquiry into the Nature and Trcat- > meat of Gravel and Calculus, and other Dis- ' cases connected with a deranged operation of ’the Urinary Organs, 8vo. Loud. 1821.) Mechanical deposites from the urine are di- vided by Dr. Prout into three classes. 1. Pul- • verulent, or amorphous sediments. 2. Crystal- ' line sediments, usually denominated gravel. 3, Solid concretions, or calculi, formed by the ag- gregation of these sediments. Pulverulent, or amorphous sediments, are described by Dr. Prout, as almost always exist- ■ iug in a state of solution in the urine before it is 1 discharged, and even afterwards until it begins ' to cool, when they are deposited in the state of a '■ fine powder, the particles of which do not appear i to be crystalline. Their colour is for the most ' part brown, or yellow, and generally speaking, they consist of two species of neutral saline compounds; viz. the lithates of ammonia, soda, and lime, tinged more or less with the colour- ing principle of the urine, and with the pur- purates of the same bases, and constituting what are usually denominated, pink and later i- lious sediments ; and, secondly, the earthy phosphates, namely, the phosphate of lime, and the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, constituting for the most part sediments nearly white. '1 he two species of sediments are fre- quently mixed together; though the lithates generally prevail. Crystalline Sediments, or Gravel, are com- monly voided in the form of minute angular grains, or crystals, composed, 1. Of lithic acid, nearly pure. 2. Of triple phosphate of mag- nesia and ammonia ; and, 3. Of oxalate of lime. The crystals of lithic acid, which are by far the most frequent, are always more or less of a red colour. Those, composed of the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia are nearly white; while others, composed of the oxalate of lime, which are extremely rare, are of a dark, blackish, green colour. It is further remarked, by Dr. Prout, that these different varieties of crystal- line deposites are never voided together, though they not unfrequently occur with amorphous sediments. (Prout, Op. cit.p. 79, S[C.J Solid Concretions, or Urinary Calculi, ari- sing from the precipitation and consolidation of the urinary sediments, may be formed in any of the cavities, to which the urine has access; and hence, they are met with in the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Their various appear- ances, and chemical properties, will be presently described. Most of them are believed to be originally produced in the kidneys, from which they afterwards descend with the urine. To this statement, however, the cases, in which calculi are formed upon foreign bodies introduced into the bladder through the urethra, an accidental wound, or some ulcerated communication be- tween the intestines and the bladder, are mani- fest exceptions. In the centre of urinary cal- culi, bullets, splinters of bone, pieces of bougies, and wood, pins, needles, nuts, &c. are frequently observed; and it would appear, that a very minute substance is capable of becoming a nu- cleus ; a mere clot of blood, or a little bit of chaff, if not soon voided, being sufficient to lead to the formation of a stone in the bladdev. The lithic acid itself is a common nucleus, even where the whole calculus is not of the same material. That many urinary calculi are originally pro- duced in the kidney, is certain; first, from the severe pain, which the passage of such foreign bodies down the ureter always excites; and. secondly, from their being often discovered in the infundibula and pelvis of that viscus after- death. This last fact is well illustrated in the first plate of Dr. Marcet’s interesting “ Essay on the Chemical History and Medical Treat- ment of Calculous Disorders,” gvo. 1817. The engraving is taken from a preparation in the Museum of Guy’s Hospital. In this instance, there were several calculi closely pressed against each other; but, in another example, drawn from a specimen in Mr. Abernethy’s museum, the renal concretion was composed of a single mass, which represented a complete cast of the pelvis and part of the infundibula of the kidney. In this form of. the disease, the kidney loses at last all vestiges of its natural structure, and is converted into a kind of cyst, filled with the ex- traneous substance. As Dr. Marcet observes, when such a complete alteration of the structure takes place, the secretion of urine must of course be entirely carried on by the other kidney. However, in some instances, the inconvenience thus produced is so slight, that it almost escapes notice; and, sometimes even both kidneys are dis- eased in a very great degree, and yet life is pre- served for a considerable time. (Op. cit.p, 3, 4.)