66 AMPUTATION. approbation of the tourniquet proposed by M. Pipelet for compressing the femoral artery. (Mdm. dc /’ Acad. de Chir. Vul. 4. p. 60, 4In.) Actuated by such principles, M. Louis prac- tised a kind of double incision different from that oi Cheselden and Petit, and different also from Alanson s method, which I shall hereafter notice. By the first stroke, he cut, at the same time, both the integuments and the loose superficial muscles; by the second, he divided those muscles, which are deep, and closely adherent to the femur. On the first, deep, circular, cut being completed, M. Louis used to remove a band, which was placed round the limb, above the track of the knife. This was taken off, in order to allow the divided muscles to become retracted without any impediment. He next cut the deep adherent muscles, on a level with the surfaces of those loose ones, which had been divided in the first incision, and which had now attained their utmost state of retraction. In this way, he could evidently saw the bone very high up, and the painful dissection of the skin from the muscles was avoided. M. Louis was conscious, that there was more necessity for saving muscle than skin ; and he knew, that when an incision is made at once down to the bone, the retraction of the divided muscles always left the edge of the skin projecting a considerable way beyond them. Hence he deemed the plan of first saving a portion of skin, by dissecting it from the muscles, and turning it up, quite unnecessary. As the bone should always be sawn rather higher than the division of the soft parts, Louis, like J. L. Petit, and most other judicious surgeons, highly approved of the employment of a retractor. He was likewise the author of some valuable in- structions for preventing the protrusion of the bone after the operation. (See Mern. de l' Acad, de Chir. T. 2, ]>. 268-410, d[-c. 4to). The im- partial reader, who takes the trouble to read the remarks on amputation, published by this greatest of all the French surgeons of the last century, with the exception perhaps of J. L. Petit, and Desault, will at once be impressed with the force and perspicuity of his matter, and with the evi- dent propriety of a good deal of the practice in- culcated. In England, Cheselden, and not J. L. Petit, is regarded as the surgeon, who revived Celsus’s method, in proposing to divide the soft parts bn u double incision, that is by cutting the skin and cellular substance first, and then, by dividing the muscles, down to the bone, on a level until the edge of the skin, so that the bone might be sawn higher up, and its end be more completely covered with skin. Whether Cheselden had the pri- ority in this improvement, I cannot presume to say; but, he gave an account of it in Gataker’s translation of Le Dran’s treatise on the opera- tions, as early as 1749, which was long prior to the appearance of Petit’s posthumous writings; and Mr. Cheselden further mentions, that, during his apprenticeship to Mr. Fern, he had com- municated to that gentleman his sentiments about the double incision. In order to hinder the stump from assuming a pyramidal, or sugar-loaf shape, which some- times happened notwithstanding every improve- ment hitherto mentioned, a circular bandage was employed, which acted by supporting the skin and muscles, and preventing their retraction. This bandage when, properly applied, from the upper part of the limb downward, fulfilled in a certain measure the end proposed, though many stumps yet turned out very badly. Mr. Sharp was induced therefore to revive the very ancient plan of bringing the edges of the skin together with sutures; but, the pain and other inconveniencies of this method were such, that it was never ex- tensively adopted, and Mr. Sharp himself ul- timately abandoned it. The cross-bandage how- ever which he used to put over the end of the stump, remains in fashion even at the present day. (Treatise on the Opcr. p. 216; Critical Inquiry, p. 268). It is to be regretted, that an excellent modern surgeon, the late Mr. Hey, should have commended, so much as he has done, the use of sutures, in bringing together the edges of the wound after amputation. (Prac- tical Observations in Surgery, p. 584, Edit. 2.) In opposition to Louis, the inefficiency of his method for hindering the protrusion of the bone was asserted by Valentin, who thought the object might be better attained bv dividing the parts, while they were in a state of tension, for which purpose, he recommended changing the posture of the limb, according to the parts, which he was about to cut. (llechcrches Critiques sur la Chiriirgie moderne, 8w>. Amst. 1772.) Valen- tin’s proposal seems never to have made much impression on the profession; whether on ac- count of its inconvenience, or inefficacy, I know not: certain it is, many cases present them- selves, in which the posture of a limb absolutely could not be changed during the operation, owing to the nature of the disease, or could not be altered without extreme agony to the patient. At this period arose the celebrated contro- versy about the propriety of amputation in ge- neral. As Sprengel remarks, several French surgeons now began to be convinced, with Le Dran and Bagieu, that the operation was un- dertaken on too light grounds, and, in particular, that bad complicated fractures might be healed very well without amputation. Such was the doctrine of Boucher (Meni. de I'Acad. de Chir. T. 2, p 304,) Gervaise (Anfangsgr. dtr Wun- darzn. 8uo. Sirasb. 1755,) and Faure (Mem. qui nut concouru pour le pm de I'Ac. de Chir. T <>/. 1, p. 100.) The latter especially urged the prudence of delay, in gunshot wounds, and com- minuted injuries of the bones. But, the writer, who at this time made most noise in the world, by his general condemnation of amputation, was Bilguer, (Diss. de Membrorum Amputations, 8vo. Hal. 1761,) whose sentiments have re- ceived so complete a refutation from his own contemporaries, Pott, (Chir. TVor/cs, lot. 2,) Morand, (Opu'r. de Chir. T. 1, p. 232,) and de La Martiniere (Mem. de I'Acad. dc Chir. Vol. 4, p. 1,) and also from later writers, to whom reference will be made in speaking of Gun- shot Wounds. Even Bilguer himself was com- pelled to admit the necessity of amputation in cases of gangrene. (Anweisjiir die Feldwun- d'an'e, S. 170.) Bilguer's colleague, the celebrated Schmucker, inclined to the same doctrines, and has detailed several cases, where limbs were not only shattered, but actually carried away by balls, yet where a cure