G26 HERNIA. inwards and downwards towards the os pubis, and after forming the external pillar of the ab- dominal ring, is first closely inserted into the angle, or tubercle ol the os pubis, and then being continued inwards, or backwards, in the form of a firm fascia, is attached to the horizontal ramus of that bone, making the anterior or outer sur- face oj- Gimbernaf s, or the femoral, ligament, which is consequently produced by the junction of Poupart’s with Ilesselbach’s internal inguinal ligament along the spine of the os pubis. Thus, just as the internal inguinalligament is a strength- ened part of the fascia of the transverse muscle, the outer inguinal ligament, for, as it is here commonly called) Poupart’s ligament, is pro- duced by the strengthened fibres of the lower portion of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, the fibres of it, making the external pil- lar of the ring, being continued further towards the symphysis of the pubes, in the form of the outer surface of Gimbernat’s ligament. (Lan- genbeck, Neue B'lbl. B. 2, p. 120, 121.) English surgeons make the formation of Gim- bernat’s, or the femoral ligament more simple: thus, Mr. Lawrence states, that when Poupart’s ligament approaches the pubes, “ it becomes suddenly broader; that it is fixed by this broad portion, along the whole length of the angle and crista of the pubes; that it has a rounded and strong anterior edge, a thin and sharp posterior margin ; and that the former of these is nearer to the surface, while the latter is comparatively deeply seated. The breadth of this part varies, in different subjects: it is generally from three quarters of an inch to an inch. Sometimes, as Gimbernat has stated, it measures more than an inch. Dr. Monro has observed, that it is broader in the male, than in the female subject; and, from this structure, he explains in part the more rare occurrence of this rupture in the male.” (P. 368, Ed. 3.) The fascia lata, which is spread over the muscles of the thigh, is only a continuation of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and, as it proceeds downwards from Poupart’s ligament, is very closely attached to the muscles of the thigh, all the way from the anterior su- perior spinous process of the ilium, to the fe- moral artery, drawing, as it were, Poupart’s liga- ment downwards and inwards, or backwards, towards the cavity of the pelvis, so as to give to its external edge a convex appearance, and shut up the outside of the pelvis, from the anterior su- perior spine of the ilium as far as the crural nerve and artery, so firmly, that the formation of a femoral hernia at this part is impossible. And, if small apertures, filled with fat, be discernible in this portion of the fascia lata, still no hernia can here take place, because, as Langenbeck has already explained, here the interior of the pelvis is again shut up by fasciae already described. Under the fascia lata are situated the anterior crural nerve, the vein and artery. The vena saphena magna lies on the outside of it, and passes through an opening in it into the femoral vein. This aperture in the fascia lata is at the inner side of the groin, opposite the internal opening of the crural ring, or canal. It is named by Hesselbach the external aperture for the femoral vessels, and described by him as an oblique fissure about fifteen lines in length. He takes notice of its external semilunar edge, and two horns, which are directed inwards; the parts first particularly described by Mr. A. Burns of Glasgow, under the name of the. semilunar, or falciform proceps of the fascia lata. The lower horn bends rather inwards and upwards, and ter- minates in the production of the fascia lata spread over the pectinalis muscle. The upper horn, which is less curved, buries itself under the ex- ternal pillar of the abdominal ring. Over the lower horn of the opening, just now described, the vena saphena magna ascends into the femoral vein. Through the same aperture also pass nearly7 all the superficial lymphatics of the lower extremity. According to Cloquet, the fascia lata consists of two layers, of which the anterior superficial one is closely attached to the crural arch, extends over the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior side of the crural canal. The other layer, near the pubes, quits the former, and, co- vering the pectinalis muscle, constitutes the hinder side of that canal. The anterior layer of the fascia then forms an oval aperture, through which the vena saphena passes, and which is con- sidered by Cloquet as the lower opening of the crural canal. This opening, called by; Hessel- bach the external foramen for the femoral ves- sels, is well delineated both in his excellent work, and in the twenty7-third plate of Langen- beck’s book (De Structura Pcritonai, tcsticu- lorum tunicis, <|-c. 8vo. Gott. 1817.) According to the investigations of the last anatomist, as soon as the integuments are removed, this open- ing in the fascia lata, with its external semilunar edge, and two horns, are regularly seen. The front side of the crural canal is formed by the fascia lata. Where this fascia proceeds in the form of Hesselbach’s upper horn under and be- - hind the external pillat of the abdominal ring, and makes the outer layrer of Gimbernat’s liga- ment, it is continued as a thin aponeurosis over the vena saphena, so that it makes not merely7 the upper horn, but reaches further downwards and forms the outer side of the crural canal. The outer side then of the crural canal, or ring, according to Langenbeck, extends from the outer semilunar edge of the external opening for the femoral vessels, or, as English surgeons would say, from the edge of the falciform pro- cess of the fascia lata. The larger the preceding thin continuation of fascia is, the smaller is the external opening, for the femoral vessels, the more is the upper horn bent downwards, and the more determinate is the form of the canal. (Langenbeck, Neue Bihl. B. 2. p. 12-4, 125 ) A ccording to Mr. Lawrence, “ the fascia lata, or fascia of the thigh, has two distinct insertions at the upper and anterior part of the limb. It is attached to the front edge of the pubes, over the origin of the pectineus, the fibres of which it closely covers,/ and it is also fixed to the front of the crural arch. The former of these is conti- nuous, behind the femoral vessels, with the iliac fascia: the latter is not inserted along the whole length of the tendon, its attachment, ceasing on the inner side of the vessels, which it covers an- teriorly. Here, therefore, the femoral artery and vein are interposed between the two divisions.” (On Ruptures, Edit. 3,p. 371.) Where the insertion of the fascia lata into Poupart’s ligament ends, it forms what Mr.