VARICOSE VEINS. 1135 terive confirmation from the knotty appearance >f varicose veins, a circumstance, which has been iccouuteil for by supposing, that the distention s greatest in the situation of the valves. Lastly, lie idea is further supported by the well known act of the frequent occurrence of varices during he state of pregnancy. But, it has not been remembered, that the use of garters, for example, s extremely common; yet varices of the legs re infinitely less frequent; that very large va- ,iees are met with in persons, who have never tnployed any kind of ligatures, to which the ■ rigin of the complaint can be imputed; that .hen the dilatation of the veins extends to the highs and parietes of the abdomen, no causes of his description even admit of suspicion ; that .varicose veins are observable round several kinds ;f tumors, especially scirrhi, when there is no ossibiiity of pointing out any mechanical ob- . '.ruction to the cireiflation of the blood ; that arices sometimes make their appearance at the ommencement of pregnancy, and long before -re enlargement of the womb can impede the ■vee return of the blood through the veins in the elvis; that nothing is more unusual, than, a va- eose dilatation of the veins of the lower ex- tremities in consequence of swellings of the ab- dominal viscera; and, lastly, it has been forgot- ?n, that the knots of the dilated veins are far 30 numerous to admit of being ascribed to the esistance of the valves. It cannot be denied, tat pressure, applied in the track of the vessels, :nds to promote their dilatation: but, it can . either be considered as the only cause, nor as le principal one. The foregoing observations, i iade by Delpech, render it probable, that some nknown general cause is concerned in producing arices, the formation of which may also be fa- il .litated by the impediments to the free return of re blood, occasioned by certain attitudes, and jj articular articles of clothing. Mr. Hodgson conceives it probable, that, in ame instances, the valves are ruptured, in con- iquence of muscular exertions, or external vio- mce, in which cases, the pressure of the column f blood is the first cause of the dilatation of the ains. Sometimes also the disease appears to 'ise from preternatural weakness in the coats of te veins, as, in those instances, in which, with- it any evident cause, it exists in various parts the same person. (Treatise outlie Diseases 'Arteries and Feins, p. 537.) Experience proves, says Delpech, that there no certain mode of curing varices, strictly so died, which he thinks cannot be wondered at, nee the nature and causes of the disease are •mpletely unknown. The same source of aowledge, however, also proves, that the in- case in the dilatation of varicose veins may be tarded, and that the oedematous swelling, at- ndant on the complaint, may be beneficially •posed by methodical and permanent compres- :>n. When the whole of a limb, affected with trices, is subjected to this last mode of treat- ent, the dilated veins subside, the circulation more regularly performed, and the oedema and tin cease. There is not (says Delpech) any •Her method of healing the solutions of conti- uty in the soft parts, produced, or kept up, by e varicose state of the limb, and its consc- iences, But, sometimes, as soon as the com- ! j pression is discontinued, the varices make their appearance again, the pain recurs, the oedema returns, and the ulcers, which were healed, break out afresh. Inflammation of the integuments covering a varix, or varicose tumor, cannot invariably be prevented by compression; nor will this treat- ment always succeed even in removing the in- tolerable pain, which sometimes attends nume- rous clusters of varicose veins. In the first case, rest and relaxing applications will often succeed ; and in the second, the topical use of sedatives frequently gives relief. It has been proposed to puncture and empty varicose veins ; but, if a temporary emptiness and relaxation of these ves- sels were to remove the pain for a time, things would fall into the old state again in the course of a few days. If the plan were adopted, it would be necessary to make a very free opening in the dilated vein, and extract the coagulum. The vessel would then need no ligature above and below the opening, for the slightest compres- sion would afterwards stop the bleeding, and the vessel be obliterated by the subsequent inflam- mation. We learn from Celsus, that the ancients were accustomed to remove varices by excision, or destroy them with the cautery. (Z)c lie Medico, lib. 7, cap. 3.) When the vein was much con- voluted, extirpation with the knife was prefer- red; but in other cases, the dilated vessel was exposed by an incision, and then cauterized. Petit, Boyer, and many British surgeons have also sometimes cut out clusters of varicose veins. Delpech remarks, that the extirpation of tu- mors, composed of numerous varices, has been practised, either for the purpose of removing the pain in the situation of the disease, or other in- conveniences. This operation has been success- fully performed ; but it appears not to have con- stantly had the effect of preventing the formation of new varices, and it has sometimes proved te- dious, difficult, and severely painful in its execu- tion. In fact, an erroneous judgment must ne- cessarily be formed of the extent of these swell- ings, when they are judged of only from the ap- pearance which they present under the skin. Varices are not always confined to the super- ficial veins, and when they extend deeply, the operation must be ineffectual. The opinion of Delpech is, that it-should never be undertaken, unless the disease be accompanied with perilous symptoms, or the patient nearly deprived of the use of his limb. It has been thought, that one of the esta- blished principles in the treatment of aneurisms might be advantageously extended to the cure of varicose veins.. By tying the principal venous trunk above the point, to which the varicose af- fection reaches, it is said, that the course of the blood in the morbid vessels may be totally stop- ped; the column of this fluid made, to coagu- late; and the consequent obliteration of the ves- sels themselves accomplished. The practice of tying veins for the cure of varices, appears to have been employed in the days of Bare and Dionis {Coins d'Operations dc C/drurgic, p. b'10,) who have accurately described the operation of tying and dividing the vein between the two ligatures. Sir Everard i I