FRACTURES. <151 some other external force, acting on the frag- chialis tends to produce the same effect, when nients, sooner or later, after the occurrence of the humerus is broken below its middle, the injurj'. The displacement is principally owing to such The outward violence, which is productive of muscles as are affixed to the lower fragment, or a fracture, operates sometimes directly on the part with which this fragment is articulated, situation of the breach of continuity ; sometimes Suppose the humerus to be broken between its on parts more or less distant from this place. In both cases, the action of the force is not con- fined to the production of the fracture, but is partly spent in causing a displacement of the fragments. Falls are the most usual causes of fractures. But, sometimes, the fall does not happen till after the leg, or thigh, is actually broken. The weight of the body then produces the displace- ment, by pushing the upper fragment against the soft parts, which are more or less lacerated. This is what happened to Ambrose Pare. This celebrated surgeon, being kicked by a horse, endeavoured to get out of the way ; but he in- stantly fell down, and the two bones of his left leg, which had been fractured, being impelled by the weight of the body, not only passed through the skin, but even through his stocking and boot. Boyer has seen a case nearly similar in a young man about twenty years of age, who, in a stand- ing posture, was struck on the middle of the thigh with the pole of a carriage, which fractured the femur. The patient fell down, and in the fall the upper fragment was not only driven through the muscles and integuments, but also through his breeches. The weight of the limb itself may produce displacement according to the direction, or cir- cumference of the bone, as already detailed. The disturbance of the limb, also, in lifting the patient, and carrying him to his bed, may some- times alter the relative situation of the fragments, and cause them to be displaced. But, of all the causes of the displacement of fractures, the action of the muscles is the com- morj and most powerful one. Amongst those muscles, which surround a fractured bone, some are attached to it throughout its whole length, and are equally connected with both the frag- ments. Some arise from the bone above, and are inserted either into that, which is articulated with the lower fragment, or into the lower frag- ment itself. Lastly, there are others, which come from a point more or less distant, and ter- minate in the upper fragment. The muscles round the thigh-bone furnish examples of these three arrangements. The triceps is attached td the bone its whole length. The biceps, semi- membranosus, and semi-tendinosus, come from the pelvis, and are inserted into the leg, a part, with which the lower fragment is articulated, and all the motions of which it follows. The great head of the biceps is inserted into this ragment itself. Lastly, the iliacus, psoas, pe> ineus, &c. come from the loins and pelvis, md are attached to the femur, not far from its ipper end. The muscles, which are attached to both frag- nents, contribute very little to their displace- ment. They may, however, draw them to the 'ide, on which they are situated, and thus hange the direction of the limb. The triceps, specially its middle portion, acts in this man- or in fractures of the femur, and renders ho thigh convex anteriorly. The coraco-bra- upper end and the insertion of the great pec- toral. This muscle, aided by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, will draw the lower fragment inwlrd, and displace it by drawing it to the inner side of the upper fragment, which re- mains motionless. In fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, the upper fragment, included within the capsular ligament, affords attachment to no muscle. All those, which are affixed to the lower fragment, pull it upward and back- ward, in which direction the displacement is in- evitable. In all fractures, the lower fragment follows every movement made by the part of the limb with which it is articulated, and, conse- quently, the muscles which are attached to the bones of this last part of the limb, become a powerful cause of displacement. Thus, in a fracture of the thigh-bone, the biceps, semi- tendinosus, and semi-membranosus, draw the leg, and with it the lower fragment, upward, in- ward, and backward, so as to make the lower end of the fracture ascend at the inside of, and rather behind, the upper one, the extremity of which then projects forward and outward. In a fracture of the leg, the gastrocnemius, soleus, and peronei muscles, acting upon the foot, pull the lower fragments of the tibia and fibula, and draw them to the outer and posterior side of the upper fragments. For. here, as well as every where else, the strongest muscles, in producing the displacement, draw towards their own side the end of the fracture, on which they operate. And as the posterior muscles of the leg are far more numerous and powerful than those on the front of the limb; while those on its outside are not antagonized by any others; the displace- ment must happen in the direction backward and outward. Whenever therefore a bone is fractured at a given point, an anatomical know- ledge of the muscles will enable one to deter- mine a priori in what direction the displacement will occur, if no means be taken to impede it, and it proceed altogether from this particular cause. Lastly, the muscles, which are attached only to the upper fragment, may sometimes displace it. In a fracture of the thigh, situated imme- diately below the little trochanter, the psoas and iliacus muscles together carry forward the ex- tremity of the upper fragment, which elevates the integuments, and forms a more or less con- siderable projection near the fold of the groin. But, it is to be observed, that, in general, the displacement of the upper fragment is not com- mon, and that it is the lower one, which is drawn out of its proper position. The manner, in which the displacement of fractures is effected by the action ot muscles, explains one circumstance, which frequently attends these cases, especially fractures of the thigh, clavicle, and leg. This is a rising, a pro- jection, of the upper fragment, or that which is nearest the trunk. One might believe, at first sight, that such projection is formed by the upper fragment, which, abandoning its natural