534 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. persisted in. Cold does no good in any stage of inflammation, when the sensation accruing from the first application of it is not agreeable to the ieelings ol the patient j when, in fact, it does not give relief; for, if it produces a sensation of shivering, or an uncomfortable feeling of any kind, with stiffness of the part, it is doing harm, and a change to the genial sensation of warmth will not only prove more agreeable, but more ad- vantageous. This occurs in general about the pe- riod when suppuration has taken place; and cold, in such cases, is preventing the full effect of the action, which warmth encourages. Fo- mentations are then proper; and, if a poultice be preferred for convenience, by day or by night, an evaporating one of bread will be found sufficient. In the spring of the year, the marsh-mallow makes an excellent poultice, and so do turnips, gourds, carrots, &c. independently of oatmeal, linseed-meal, Indian meal, and other farinaceous substances. In all those cases, where a poultice is resorted to, as much attention is to be paid to the period of removing, as of applying it. It is used to alleviate pain, stiffness, swelling, the un- easiness arising from cold, and to encourage the commencing, or interrupted, action of the ves- sels towards the formation of matter; and, as soon as the effect intended has been gained, the poultice should be abandoned, and recourse again had to cold water, with compress and bandage.” / (P.62—67. Ed. 2.) Although I fully coincide with Mr. Guthrie, respecting the general advan- tage of cold water, the dangers of tight bandages, and the bad effects of continuing poultices too long, I do not join him in many of the senti- ments which he has expressed about these last invaluable applications. On the contrary, I ap- preciate them as the best means, wherever a slough is to be thrown off or matter is decidedly forming, and, as these effects are very frequent in cases of gun-shot wounds, my own opinion of the utility of cold applications is limited to the first three or four days after the receipt of the injury. Nor ought cold applications ever to be continued, where the torpor, low temperature, and languid circulation in the limb, indicate a risk of gangrene. Hence, when a principal ar- tery is tied, their employment is always wrong and hazardous. At the same time, I have no hesitation in declaring my firm belief, that fifty times more mischief has been done by tight rollers applied to recent gun-shot wounds, than by either poultices, or cold applications. Formerly, when the track of the ball had two apertures, a seton was sometimes drawn through it, with the view of preventing a premature closure of the wound, and introducing proper applications. The seton was, also, imagined to give free vent to pus, and to promote the evacua- tion of foreign bodies. But a gun-shot wound is little inclined to close prematurely, and while a seton rather obstructs the exit of pus, it may as easily push foreign bodies more deeply into the limb, as out of it. There are preferable modes of applying the necessary remedies, and, ns a seton is an extraneous substance itself, its employment cannot fail to be highly pernicious. Gun-shot wounds generally demand the em- ployment of antiphlogistic means, just as other cases, attended with equal inflammation. When they are in the inflamed state, the application or leeches is highly proper. In these cases, bleed- ing is recommended, arid in such a manner as if it were of more service in them, than wounds in general. But the necessity for the practice is really not greater than in other wounds, which have done the saute degree of mischief, and from which the same quantity of inflammation and other consequences are expected. Bleeding is certainly proper here, just as it is in all consi- derable wounds attended with a strong full habit, and great chance of extensive inflammation, and much symptomatic fever. In every instance, however, the practitioner must take particular care not to be too bold in the practice of bleed, ing ; for when the patient is reduced below a certain degree, his strength is inadequate to sup- port the large and long-continued suppurations which often cannot be avoided. (See Hunter, p. 563-564.) As the orifices of the vessels torn by the ball are compressed, and, as it were, obliterated, sometimes no hemorrhage of importance is re- marked at first. But, as I have already stated, after some day’s, and frequently at a very late period, when the sloughs separate, copious lie- morrhages may occur, which are the more dan- gerous as they come on unexpectedly, and often when the suppuration has already induced great debility. The surgeon himself may occasion the bleeding, by removing the dressings carelessly. Hence, in every case, where, from the situation of the wound, there is reason to apprehend injury of some considerable vessel, the patient must be constantly and attentively watched, and every- thing necessary for the immediate stoppage of hemorrhage provided. Another kind of hemorrhage, still more dan- gerous than the former, particularly occurs in such gun-shot wounds as have long been in a state of copious suppuration. The blood does not issue from one individual vessel, but from the whole surface of the wound, as from a sponge, and is so thin as to resemble blood and water. This hemorrhage is very dangerous, because it is particularly apt to exhaust ihe patient, who is already debilitated, and its causes are difficult of removal. The case demands the exhibition of bark, and diluted sulphuric acid; the decoction of bark, with a proportion of muriatic acid, being applied to the wound. (Jtichier.) Gun-shot wounds, in crowded military hos- pitals, especially when they are established in unhealthy, low situations, and due attention is not paid to ventilation, cleanliness, and fumi- gations with nitric acid gas, are often attacked with hospital gangrene, a very serious and dan* gerous complication, of which I shall speak uu. der the head of HuspiLal Gangrene. The plan of removing the first dressings too soon is as injurious in gun-shot wounds as other cases, by creating a premature disturbance of the parts. This observation is particularly true, where dry lint has been used, and it is adherent to the wound. Unless the occurrence of bleed, ing, severe pain, or other untoward symptoms, were to render a different line of conduct neces- sary, I think such dressings should rarely be re- moved before the end of the fourth day. And, if cold water has not been continually applied