208 ARTERIES. trembling, he beholds the jet of blood; and for tlie sake ot appearing to do something, perhaps, lie applies spirit ot wine, or a very tight band- age, and cries out for further aid; while sim- ple pressure with the thumb upon a certain point in the vicinity of the injury, would prevent all this confusion, and a dangerous loss of blood. No part of surgery, in fact, is of higher import- ance, than the treatment of wounded arteries, and it deserves, therefore, to be earnestly studied by every practitioner, whether he move in the higher, or the lower, sphere of the profession. And, as a proof of the necessity of country sur- geons making themselves acquainted with the subject, he recites the case of a turf-cutter, who let the instrument with which he worked fall against the lower part of his leg, whereby the posterior tibial artery was wounded. The blood gushed out profusely, and the surgeon who was sent for, applied a tourniquet to the popliteal artery, and thus stopped the bleeding for a time; but, unfortunately, the tourniquet was kept so long on the limb, that the foot mortified, and sloughed away. (Bibl. filr die Ckir. B. 1. p. 231, 232, Grit. 1806.) From the explana- tions, delivered in the article Hemorrhage, it will be seen, that, in all bleedings from considerable arteries, nothing is equal to the ligature, as a means for preventing the further loss of blood ; and it may be laid down as a standing rule, that each extremity of the wounded vessel should be tied as near as possible to the wound in its coats. As Mr. Hodgson has remarked, “ the necessity of tying both ends of a wounded artery is evident from the fact, that the anastomoses in all parts of the body, are so extensive, as to furnish a sup- ply of blood, which may pass through the lower extremity of the wounded vessel in a sufficient stream to produce an alarming, and, in some instances, a fatal hemorrhage.” (On Diseases of Arteries, Sfc. p. 46.9.) This correct observation is followed by a case, in which the bleeding from the lower end of a divided brachial artery caused the patient’s death. Of course, the inference is, that both extremities of the vessel ought to have been tied directly after the receipt of the wound. With regard to tying the trunk of an artery in a part of the limb, where it can be exposed with facility, when it is difficult to secure its bleeding extremities, as Mr. Hodgson remarks, the prac- tice “ was falsely deduced from a knowledge of the fact, that the ligature of an artery at a di- stance from the disease will effect the cure of an aneurism. But, a more intimate acquaintance with the condition of a limb after such an opera- tion, and the processes, by which the cure of an aneurism is effected after the modern operation, afford a complete illustration^ of the inefficacy and danger of this mode of treating a wounded artery ; for it is now fully proved, that, when an artery is tied, a stream of blood continues to pass through it below the ligature, (p. 471.) This well informed surgeon is aware, however, that instances do occur, in which only the upper end of a wounded artery is tied, and yet the patient recovers without hemorrhage from the lower orifice, which is closed by the natural processes. In the year 1814, in Holland, I took up the femoral artery, in the middle of the thigh, in a case, in which the popliteal artery had given wav, ten davs after the passage of a musket ball through the ham. I employed only one smallish ligature, which was applied with the precaution of not detaching the artery from its natural connexions. The hemorrhage was ef- fectually stopped, and the wound healed in the most favourable manner. Here, no doubt, the inflammation in the ham had obliterated the portion of the artery immediately below the point, at which it had sloughed, or ulcerated, and, there might even have been from the same cause some deposition of lymph within the upper portion of the popliteal artery, contributing to the success of the operation. But, no doubt, it was the diminution of the impulse of the circulation by the ligature of the femoral artery, which ena- bled nature to complete the obliteration of the wounded part of the vessel. Sometimes, says Mr. Hodgson, when hemorrhage takes place, a few days after the bleeding from a wounded artery has been stopped by compression, one ex- tremity of the vessel will be pervious, whilst the other will have closed by the natural processes. Cases have even occurred, in which the upper end of the artery has been closed by the natural processes, whilst those processes failed in effect- ing the obliteration of the lower extremity of the vessel, from which a serious hemorrhage took place. (Hodgson Op. cit. 475, and Guthrie in New Med. and Phys. Jnurn. VoL 4, p. 1/7.) Indeed, in the example, in which I took up the femoral artery myself, it was impossible to sav positively, whether the blood came from the part of the popliteal artery above, or below the slough in it, as no incision was made into the ham. The principle, respecting the application of a ligature to each end of every large divided artery, is to be extended also to punctured arteries, one ligature being placed above, and the other below, the opening in the vessel. From some observations, introduced in the article Aneurism, p. 150, it will be seen, that, when the impulse of the circulation has been les- sened by the ligature of the main trunk of an artery, some distance above the wound, the he- morrhage from the more remote portion of the vessel, maj’ sometimes be effectually restrained by pressure, which, previously to the stoppage of one great current of blood to the part, had proved unavailing. This fact is worth remem- bering in cases, in which the arteries of the hand, or foot, are wounded. Mortification is observed to be more frequent after the ligature of an artery for a wound, than for an aneurism. In wounds, Mr. Hodgson very correctly, I think, refers the difference to the frequent injury of the surrounding parts, and particularly of the veins and nerves, and to the loss of blood, and want of quietude, and pro- per care after the accident. The principal anastomosing vessels are also sometimes divided. (P. 479.) Having given in the article Aneurism, the necessary directions, how to cut down to and tie many of the principal arteries, I shall conclude the present subject with a few instructions how to take up the arteries of the forearm and leg, as explained by Scarpa, Mr. C. Bell, Mr. Hodgson, and others. Some directions how to act in a case of wounded axillary artery are likewise subjoined. In order to lay bare the radial artery at