SURGERY. 1C01 mid only be a barren advantage to him. [ Euvres Chir. dc Desault, par Bichat, T. 1, iscours Prelim.) Out of the large number hospital surgeons, who are to be met with in , [ ery country of Europe, and who enjoy ample i iportunities of profiting by the lessons of expe- ;nce, how few distinguish themselves, or ever ; mtribute a mite to the improvement of their ofession. Opportunity, without talents and an : :-tness to take advantage of it, is not of more . e than light to a blind man. On the other t .ud, splendid abilities, without experience, can [ ;ver be enough to make a consummate surgeon, ,• y more than a man with the greatest genius : r painting can excel in his particular art with- hI i t having examined and studied the real objects nich he wishes to delineate. In short, as a i nsibie writer has remarked, “ Les grands chi- ? j rgiens sent aussi rarcs, que le genie, le sa- i j dr, et les tale ns.” (Mem. del' Acad, dc Chir. I .1, Pref. p. 41, Edit. 12mo.) The description of the qualities which a sur- i ;on ought to possess, as given by Celsus, is !| rcellent as far as it goes. A surgeon, says he, I lould be young, or, at any rate, not very old ; ; s hand should be firm and steady, and never I take; he should be able to use his left hand tj ith as much dexterity as his right; his sight : ! ould be acute and clear; his mind intrepid jj :id pitiless, so that when he is engaged in doing ' ij yiy thing to a patient, he may not hurry, nor cut i iss than he ought, but finish the operation, just uf ; if the cries of the patient made no impression >on him. (A. C. Celsi Med. Prcef. ad lib. 7.) 1 By the word “ immisericors,” as Richerand 1 us observed (Nosogr. Chir. Tom. 1, p. 42, dit. 2), Celsus did not mean that a surgeon .ight to be quite insensible to pity; but that, iring the performance of an operation, this ission should not influence him, as all emotion ould then be mere weakness. This undisturbed rolness, which is still more rare than skill, is the lost valuable quality in the practice of surgery. >exterity may be acquired by exercise; but firm- ess of mind is a gift of nature. Haller, to horn nature was so bountiful, in other respects, as denied this quality, as he candidly confesses. Although (says hej I have taught surgery -.venteen years, and exhibited the most difficult aerations upon the dead body, I have never jntured to apply a cutting instrument to a /ing subject, through a fear of giving too much fin.” (Bibl. Chir. 1775, Vol. 2.) Surgery may boast of having had an origin, iat well deserves to be called noble; for the irliest practice of it arose from the most gene- uu sentiment which nature has implanted in ■ te heart of man, viz, from that sympathetic be- :volence, which leads us to pity the misfortunes hich we behold, and inspires us with an anxious esire to alleviate them. He who first saw his •flow creature suffer could not fail to participate • ^e pain, and endeavour to find out the means f affording relief. Opportunities of exercising us useiul inclination were never wanting. Jn ie first ages of the world, man in his destitute *a‘e was under the necessity of earning, by >rce or stratagem, a subsistence which was sl- ays uncertain, and in the combats into which us sort ot life drew him, he frequently met with ounds and other injuries. Wherever the chace was in vogue as a means of livelihood, or amuse- ment ; wherever broils and contests occasionally arose; and man was the same animal he now is, liable to various diseases and accidental hurts; there must have existed a necessity for surgery ; nor can there be a doubt, that the origin of this valuable practice is as ancient, as the exposure of mankind to several of the same kinds of injuries, as befal the human race at the present day. At length wars became more frequent and extensive; wounds were consequently multiplied; and the necessity for surgical assistance was increased, and its value enhanced. In fact, among the ancients, the profession of medicine and surgery constituted a sacred kind of occupation, and the practice of it belonged only to privileged persons. AEsculapius was the son of Apollo. In the armies, the highest princes glo- ried in dressing the wounds of those who had fought the battles of their country. Amongst the Grecians, Podalirius, Chiron, and Machaon, were not only distinguished for their valour, but also for their skill in surgery, as we learn from the poem of the immortal Homer. The value which was placed upon the services of Machaon by the Grecian army may well be conceived from the anxiety which they evinced to have him pro- perly taken care of when he was wounded in the shoulder with a dart. “ O Nestor, pride of Greece, (cries Idomeneus) mount, mount upon thy chariot! and let Machaon mount with thee ! Hasten with him to our ships; for a vvarrior, who knows, as he does, how to relieve pain, and cure wounds, is himself worth a thousand other heroes.” (See Iliad, lib. xi.) Hippocrates was one of the first citizens of Greece; he nobly refused all the rich offers of several kings, ene- mies of his country, to entice him into their ser- vice ; and, in particular, he disdained to accept those of Xerxes, whom he regarded as a barbarian. It is in the immortal poems of the Iliad and Odyssey, that we find the only certain traditions respecting the state of the art before the esta- blishment of the republics of Greece, and even until the time of the Peloponnesian war. There it appears that surgery was almost entirely con- fined to the treatment of wounds, and that the imaginary power of enchantment was joined with the use of topical applications. In the cures, recorded in the sacred writings of the Christian religion, the intervention of a supernatural power is always combined with what is within the scope of human possibility. The same character evinces itself in the infancy of the art in every nation. The priests of India, the physicians of China and Japan, and the jug- glers of the savage or half civilized tribes of the old and new continents, constantly associate with drugs and manual operations certain mysterious practices, upon which they especially rely for the cure of their patients. Such was also, no doubt, the character of the medicine of the Egyptians, in the remote times, previous to the invention of the alphabet, and upon which so very little light is now thrown. It is curious, however, to find, from some late observations made by the men of science, who accompanied the French expedition to Egypt, in 179H, that amongst the ruins of ancient Thebes there are documents, which fully prove that sur- gery, in the early times of the Egyptians, had