URINE, RETENTION OF. ms ] tl.A loof r»t> n /miicn rt t i non lit iflfillfllB. weakness and loss of irritability in the bladder, occasioned by the immoderate distention of its coats. The disorder frequently occurs in per- sons, who from bashfulness, indolence, or intense occupation, neglect to make water, when they first have the desire; or, who cannot for a time empty the bladder, in consequence of some tem- porary obstruction in the urethra. Although the impediment to the escape of the urine no longer exists, and the bladder is in other respects sound, yet, as this organ has been weakened by the excessive distention of its coats, it cannot now contract sufficiently to obliterate the whole of its,cavity, and expel the last portion of urine. The indication is simple; for, there is not here, as in other retentions of urine, another disease to be remedied. The catheter, when left in the bladder, generally proves adequate to the resto- ration of the tone of this viscus. I do not con- ceive, however, that English surgeons will place any confidence in warm diuretics, which were commended by Desault, though they may join him in the approval of a tonic plan of treat- ment in general. When the urine flows from the catheter in a rapid stream, and is projected to some distance, and, when it also passes out, between the catheter and the urethra, it is a sign, that the bladder has regained its power of contraction, and that it can empty itself, without the aid of the instrument. In this circumstance, the catheter is to be discontinued, and the patient may gradually resume his usual mode of life. But, when the urine passes through the catheter only in a slow stream, the catheter cannot be laid aside, without tire bladder becoming dis- tended again, and losing whatever degree of tone it may have recovered. The time, which the bladder takes to regain its power of contracting, varies considerably in different cases. When the disease js accidental and sudden, it frequently goes off in a few days. When it has come on in a slow manner, it usually lasts about six weeks. However, the cure is not to be despaired of, if the paralytic affection of the bladder should continue much longer. Sabatier says, that he has seen patients wear a catheter upwards of ninety days, and yet ultimately get completely well. When there is reason for believing, that the urine will come away of itself, the use of the catheter may be dis- continued. When he makes water very slowly; when he is obliged to make frequent attempts ; and when he feels a sense of weight about the neck of the bladder; this organ has not com- pletely recovered its tone, and the employment of the catheter is still necessary. When the patient could make water tolerably well in the day, but not during the rest of the 24 hours, Sabatier has often seen benefit arise from the catheter being worn only in the night time, When three or four months elapse, without amendment, Sabatier states his conviction, that the tone of the bladder is lost for ever. In this unfortunate case, the patient should continue the flexible catheter, which he should be taught to introduce himself, as often as necessary. (See Dr la Mrd&eine Oprratoirc, T. 2.) Among- the means deserving of trial, when the the sacrum, and kept open with the savine oint- ment ; and cold washes to the hypogastric re- gion. In all cases, where the incapacity of the blad- der to contract, whether from weakness, or para- lysis, is the cause of retention, and where, though the bladder continues distended, a certain quantity of urine is voided daily, mistakes are particularly liable to be made. Thus, besides i the chance of the disease being mistaken for an ] abscess, as Colot states was not uncommon in his I his time, other errors may take place. Sabatier was consulted about a woman, who had been ad- vised to repair to some distant mineral waters, with j the view of dispersing a tumor, which remained [| after a difficult labour, and was supposed to be in tiie uterus itself. However, the swelling turned out to be only a retention of urine, as it disap- f peared as soon as the catheter was introduced, I Here no suspicion had been entertained of the I real nature of the case, because the patient had j, t voided her urine in a voluntary manner, and in 1 reasonable quantity, for the five, or six weeks, f during which the swelling existed. In a thesis, by Murray, a case is recorded, in 1 which the swelling of the bladder was so consi- ; derable, that it was mistaken for dropsy. The j h abdomen of a deiicate woman began to enlarge, ; without any particular pain, and the cause was ’ r at first supposed to be pregnancy. This idea, however, was removed by the enlargement in- creasing too rapidly, attended with a great deal of anasarca of the lower extremities, arms, and face. The patient was now considered to be I . dropsical; and a surgeun was sent for to tap the 1- abdomen. The fluctuation in the belly was quite #> evident. Fortunately, before the operation was || done, a trial of diuretic medicines was deter- * mined upon ; and while this plan was going on. L the patient was attacked with a total retention ofrJji urine for three days; a symptom, which she had# not previously suffered. It was now judged*- prudent to pass a catheter, before the trocar was# employed. Eighteen pints of urine were drawn# ■ off, and the swelling of the abdomen subsided-* The next day, twelve more pints of urine were# ... drawn off The anasarca, which was entire!}#,-, symptomatic, disappeared. The application p(J;, cold water re-established the tone of the bladder# so that, when three pints of urine had been drawn#, off by means of the catheter, the patient hersel#. could spontaneously expel three or four others# with the aid of pressure on the hypogastri# region. #\. The retention of urine, caused by weakness# or paralysis of the bladder, and the su-clline# above the pubes, may continue a long whilt# without any inconvenience, excepting a sense <# weight about the hypogastric region, and irt# quent inclination to make water. Sabatier hr™ known patients labour under the complaint morjH than six months. 4. Retention of Urine from LfaumuiiionfBL'- the Bladder.—According to Desault, writej# have ascribed different effects to an inflanmiati(ji| of tbe neck of the bladder, and to^ the sanj# affection of the body of this viscus. They M|pC in fact regarded the first case as a cause of rj#/