322 CATARACT. the crystalline humor lias generally, if not always, been found either in a soft, or fluid state, (Ubs. on Uw Cataract, and Gattn Serena, Val. 2, p. iJJrfO.) However, as Mr. Saunders must have had the most experience In these particular cases, I be- lieve, we must consider his account as the most accurate. We learn from this last gentleman’s publication, that, in the congenital cataract, after the crystalline lens is converted into an opaque substance, it is gradually absorbed; and, in pro- portion to the progress of absorption, the anterior lamella of the capsule approaches the posterior, until they form one membrane, which is white, opaque, and very elastic. This process is com- monly completed long before the eighth year, and the operator will now find a substance, which he will in vain endeavour either to extract or depress. But, there is one form of the conge- nital cataract, in which the absorption of the lens does not proceed, viz. when the centre of the crystalline is opaque, and its 'circumference is perfectly transparent. Should the capsule and lens be penetrated, however, with any instrument, the opacity soon becomes complete, and from this moment, the substance of the lens begins to be absorbed. The experience of Mr. Saunders proves, that, in the congenital cataract, the lens may be either solid, soft, or tluid, but, that more frequently it is partially, or completely absorbed, and the cata- ract is capsular. The following table of forty-four cases is given in Mr. Saunders’s work, for the purpose of shew- ing in what proportion, each species of cataract has been found to prevail in congenital cases. Solid opaque lens, with or without opacity of the capsule. Three single, two double cataracts 5 Solid lens, opaque in the centre, transparent in the circumference, with capsule in the same ) r state. Five double .. .. .. \' Soft opaque lens, with, or without opacity of the capsule. Two single, two double .. 4 Soft opaque lens, with solid nucleus. One single, two double .. .' 3 Soft opaque lens, with dotted capsule, the spots white, the spaces transparent. Two double 2 Fluid cataract, with opacity of the capsule. Two single .. 2 Fluid cataract, with opacity of the capsule, and closed pupil. Two double 2 Opaque and thickened capsule, the h ns being completely absorbed, or the remains of it 1 ^ ^ • being thin and squamose. Six single, twelve double J Opaque and thickened capsule, with only a very small nucleus of the lens unabsorbed in \ ^ the centre. Two single ) Opaque and thickened capsule in the centre, remains of the lens in the circumference.\ j One double J Here the corresponding character of congeni- tal cataracts in the eyes of each individual is exhibited by the number of double cases, and, we are informed, that the same character was preserved in the cataracts of several children of the same family. (Saunders on Diseases of the Eye, Edit, by Dr. Farre, p. 135, 13G.) The congenital cataract appears frequently to afflict several children of the same parents. In the course of the present article, I have already had occasion to advert to two striking examples of this fact. The first is related by Mr. Lucas, who attended five children of a clergyman at Leaven, near Beverley, all born with cataracts. (See Med. Obs. and Inquiries, Voi. 6.) The second is mentioned by Mr. Gibson, who, some years ago, saw five, or six children, the families of two sisters, who were all totally'blind, and in an idiotic state, having cataracts accompanied with amaurosis. (Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vi l. 8, p. 3!)8.) Several instances oc- curred to the late Mr. Saunders. In one family, two brothers were thus afflicted. In a second family, two brothers, twins, became blind with cataracts at the age of twenty-one months, each within a few days of the other. It is remark- able, that the four cataracts had precisely the »ome eharaeter. In a third family, a brother and two sisters were born with this disease. The eldest sister was effected with it only in one eye, the brother and youngest sister in both eyes. In a fourth family, three brothers and a sister had all congenital cataracts. (Saunders on the Dis- eases of the Eqe, p. 134, 135.) Children with congenital cataracts possess va- rious degrees of vision; but, when they are to- tally blind, their eyes not being attracted by external objects, volition is not exercised over the muscles of these organs, which roll about with art irregular, rapid, and trembling motion, I shall now proceed to speak of the manner of operating upon children. Until the time of Mr. Pott, the intention of surgeons, in couching, or depressing the cataract, (as indeed the expression itself implies) was to push the opaque crystalline downward, away from the pupil. Mr. Pott, con- scious that the cataract often existed in a fluid, or soft state, was aware that it could not then be depressed ; and, therefore, in such cases, he re- commended using the couching needle for the express purpose of breaking down the cataract, and of making a large aperture in the capsule, so that the aqueous humor, which he believed to be a solvent for the opaque crystalline, might come into immediate contact with this body. This operation, subsequently to Mr. Pott, h35