ACE complaints, void blood from the stomach, or a black matter from the bowels; should there be any hardness or swelling of any of the abdominal viscera discoverable by the touch, the probability is, that the pulsations are not owing to an in- ternal aneurism. With the exception of eases, in which these pulsations are owing to mechanical impediments to the circulation, Dr. Albers believes, that they are mostly a symptom of some nervous affection. He also thinks, that the surprise, excited by these throbbings, arises only from their strength and si- tuation, other analogous, strong pulsations, as for instance, those of the heart, or of the carotids, being common enough in hypochondriacal and hysterical persons. The same gentleman also adverts to the increased action, which, in inflam- mation and fevers, is often more conspicuous in some parts of the sanguiferous system, than in others. ( uber Pulsationem im Unlerleibe,p. 63, &c. Bremen, 8vo. 1803.) Much important additional information on this subject may be found in Observations on same of the must frequent and important Diseases of the Heart; on Aneurism oj the Thoracic Aorta; on Preternatural Pulsation in the Epigastric Region, Sec. Bp Allan Burns, p. 262., Sec. 8ro. Edinb. 1809. ABSCESS. This term signifies a tumor containing pus, or a collection of purulent mat- ter. Authors differ about the original derivation of the word. The most common opinion is, that it comes from the Latin ahscedo, to depart, be- cause parts, which were before contiguous, be- come separated, or depart from each other. Abscesses are divided into two principal kinds, viz. acute and chronic. For every thing, relative to the former, see Suppuration ; and, for in- formation, concerning the latter, refer to Lumbar Abscess. See also Abdomen, Antrum, Anus Abscesses of, Bubo, Empyema, Hypopium, Mam- mary Abscess, Whitlow, S'c. ACETIC ACID. Vinegar. Distilled Vine- gar. Acetum. Vinegar is an article of very considerable use in surgery. Mixed with fari- naceous substances, it is frequently applied to sprained joints, and, in conjunction with alcohol and water, it makes an eligible lotion for many cases, in which it is desirable to keep up an eva- poration from the surface of the inflamed parts. Vinegar was once considered as useful in quick- ening the exfoliation of dead bone, which effect was ascribed to its property of dissolving phos- phate of lime. Its application to this purpose, however, seems hardly admissible, for reasons, which will be well understood, from a perusal of what is said on the subject of Necrosis, The excellent effects of vinegar, when immediately applied to burns and scalds, were taken particular notice of by Mr. Cleghorn, a brewer in Edin- burgh, whose sentiments were deemed by Mr. Hunter, worthy of publication. (See Med■ Facts and Observations, Vol. II and the Art. Burns.') In chronic inflammations of the eyes, and eye- lids, and in certain instances, in which the eyes are weak and watery, vinegar is sometimes re- commended as an useful ingredient in the collv- rium. After general and topical bleeding, it is said to be an efficacious remedy even in cases of acute ophthalmy. Whenever vinegar is applied to t le eye, it is in a diluted state, as may be seen in another part of this work. (Sec Collyrium Acidi ACU 7 Acetici) In the form of a collyrium, it is alleged to be the best lotion for clearing the eye of any small particles ol lime which happen to have fallen into, and become adherent to it, or the inside of the eyelids. (See A. T. Taomson’s Dispensatory, p. 8. Ed 2.) Very strong vinegar may be obtained by freez- ing and separating the water, which is mixed with the acid. When concentrated, either in this manner, or by distillation, it is said to be an ex- cellent styptic for stopping violent hemorrhage from the nose. With this view, it may be used either as an injection, or a lotion, in which lint is to be dipped, and introduced up the nostril. Vinegar in all its forms is sometimes employed for obviating the smell of sick rooms. The strongest acetic acid which can be made, is found also to be one of the most certain and convenient applications for the destruction of warts and corns, care being taken not to injure with it the surrounding skin. ACHILLES, Tendon of. See Tendons. ACIDS. See Acetic Acid ; Muriatic Acid; and Nitrous and Nitric Acids. ACTUAL CAUTERY. A heated iron, formerly much used in surgery for the extirpa- tion and cure of diseases. The instrument was made in various shapes, adapted to different cases, and it was often applied through a canula, in order that no injury might be done to the sur- rounding parts. Actual cauteries w7ere so called in opposition to other applications, which, though the}7 were not really hot, produced the same ef- fect as fire, and consequently were named virtual. or potential cauteries. The actual cautery is still in use upon the continent; and by foreign sur- geons, we are not unfrequentlv criticised for our general aversion to what they distinguish by the appellation of an heroic remedy. Pouteau, Percy, Dupuytren, Larrey, Roux, and Maunoir, are all advocates for the practice; and the latter gentle- man, when he was lately in England, took the opportunity of reminding British surgeons of their error, in totally abandoning, as they now do, the employment of heated irons in the busi- ness of their profession. (See his Observations cm the Use of the Actual Cautery, Med• Chir. 'Trans. Vol. IX. p. 364, $fc.) ACUPUNCTURE (from acus, a needle, and puiigo, to prick). The operation of making small punctures in certain parts of the body with a needle, for the purpose of relieving diseases, as is practised in Siam, Japan, and other oriental countries, for the cure of headachs, lethargies, convulsions, colics, &c. (See Phil. Trans. No. 148; and Wtlh. Ten. Rhyne, de Arthritide, Mantissa Schematica, c£-c. 8vo. Land. 1683.) The practice of acupuncture is not followed in Eng- land. In a modern French work, it has been highly commended ; but, the author sets such a rash example, and is so wild in his expectations of what may be done by the thrust of a needle, that the tenor of his observations will not meet with many approvers. For instance, in one case, he ventured to pierce the epigastric region so deeply, that the coats of the stomach were supposed to have been perforated: this was done for the cure of an obstinate cough, and is alleged to have $fleeted a cure! But if this be not enough to excite wonder, I am sure, the author’s suggestion to run a long needle into the right ventricle of the