1204 WOUNDS. Superficial Wounds.—The most ancient sur- geons, and their successors, down to the present day, have recorded, that wounds of tendinous parts frequently give rise to very unpleasant con- sequences. Almost the whole from of the ab- domen is covered with tendinous expansions, and, on this account, it is not unusual to see punctured wounds in this situation followed by extensive inflammation, and the formation of ab- scesses. At the same time, the patient is affect- ed, with a great deal of inflammatory fever. He suffers acute pain, sickness, hiccough, and con- siderable disturbance of the nervous system. (Callisen, Syst. Chirurg. Hodicrnce, Vo!. 1, p. 698, Hafnice, 1798.) When the tension and swelling of the abdomen abate, shiverings some- times occur, and indicate the occurrence of sup- puration. The matter sometimes accumulates in the tendinous sheath of the rectus muscle, and, when the collection in this situation remains undiscovered until a pointing appears, no sooner does the abscess burst, or it is opened, than an extraordinary quantity of matter is discharged. The surgeon should carefully remember the na- ture of this kind of case, as there is frequently not sufficient alteration in the appearance of the integuments to denote, either the existence, or the extent, of the suppuration. Such an abscess forms one remarkable excep- tion to the excellent general rule of allowing acute phlegmonous abscesses to burst of their own accord. In the present instance, there is an aponeurotic expansion, intervening between the abscess and the skin, and nothing retards the natural progress of the matter to the surface of the body so powerfully, as the interposition of a tendinous fascia. But, even in this circumstance, the propensity of pus to make its way outward is often seen to have immense influence. Though there is only a thin membrane, (viz. the perito- neum) between matter so situated, and the cavity of the abdomen, the abscess, after a time, mostly points externally. The proper treatment of this case is to prevent the surprising accumulation of matter, and rapid increase of mischief, by making a depending opening, sometimes at the very lowest part of the sheath of the rectus muscle, and this, as soon as the lodgment of matter is clearly ascer- tained. If ever there be a case, in which it is advan- tageous and justifiable to make an early dilatation of a punctured wound, in order to prevent the above-described ill-consequences, it is unques- tionably the present one. Such practice, in- deed, is particularly recommended by Callisen, in addition to the strictest antiphlogistic means. (SeeSyst. Chir. Hodicrnce, Vol. J,y;. 698, edit. 1798.) Sometimes the matter is formed between the external and internal oblique muscles, and spreads to a great extent. The pus may even insinu- ate itself into the abdomen, and the case end fa- tally. Such an example is recorded by Dr. Crowther, of Wakefield. In this instance, how- ever, the disease proceeded from a contusion, not a wound. (See Ed'inb. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vo/. 2, p. 12,9.) Superficial wounds of the abdomen are to be r»rt llir» cntAt nrim>inlpR. Similar WOUmls in other situations. The indications are to pre- vent inflammation as much as possible, and, if suppuration should be inevitable, to let out the matter by a depending opening, as soon as the abscess is known to exist. The inflammation is to be checked by general and topical bleeding, low diet, emollient clysters, diluent beverages, quietude, opening medicines, cold applications, or, fomentations and poultices, and the mild- est, and most simple dressings. (See Inflam- mation.) Whenever the abdominal muscles are wound- ed, they should be relaxed, and the patient kept quiet in bed. A very important point, in the treatment of wounds of the parietes of the abdo- men,is to afford a degree of support to the wound- ed parts, so that the pressure of the viscera may be resisted. The sides of the abdomen are al- most wholly composed of soft parts, which easily yield. No part of the front, or sides, of the ab- domen, is supported by a bony structure, and, as the viscera are, for the most part, more or less moveable, and closely compressed by the abdo- minal muscles, and diaphragm, they are liable to protrude, whenever the resistance of the contain- ing parts is not sufficient]}' powerful. Hence, all wounds of the abdomen, especially those, in which both the integuments and muscles have been cut, demand strict attention to the precau- tion of supporting the wounded part, and this, though the peritoneum itself should not happen to be divided. The patient ought to keep as mucii as possible in a horizontal position, and suitable compresses and bandages should be ap- plied. And, in order to guard against hernia?, the parts should be supported, in this way, a con- siderable time after the wound is healed. The peritoneum, being connected by means of cellular substance with the inner surface of the abdominal muscles, there is always some risk of the inflammation of these parts extending to that membrane. The danger must be averted by the rigorous employment of antiphlogistic treatment. What renders the event still more dangerous, is, that when one point of the peritoneum is affect- ed, the inflammation usually spreads with im- mense rapidity over its whole extent, and too often proves fatal. As superficial wounds of the abdomen are to be treated on the general principles, applicable to all resembling wounds in other situations, it is hardly necessary to state, that union by the first intention, if possible, is always to be at- tempted. Of Wounds penetrating the Cavity of the Abdomen.'—The first thing, which the surgeon is generally anxious to know, when he is called to a wound of the belly, is, whether the wound penetrates the cavity of the abdomen, and whe- ther any of the viscera are injured. When the wound is extensive, and the bowels protrude, the first part of the question is at once decided. But, when the wound is narrow, and the viscera do not protrude, it is more difficult to know, whether the cavity of the abdomen is penetrated or not. An opinion, however, may be formed, by carefully examining the wound with a finger, or a probe; by observing, if pos- sible, how much of the weapon is stained with lilr.nrl • pmiqidprinfr the direction in which it was