■*70 FRACTURES. apparatus again, with a view of preventing a new the periosteum, to a substance.which is at first 4 has seen these layers replaced by red vascular granulations, disposed in parallel lines, which granulations soon ossified, that is to say, phos- phat of lime was substituted for the vermilion colour of the vessels, and gave the new formed substance the appearance and consistence of bone. Lastly, this substance was covered with a new cellular membrane, derived from the adjacent textures; but, in the place of the cicatrix, a depression always remained, proportioned to the loss ot substance. If the formation of callus de- pended on the periosteum, Larrey argues, that the broken patella could never unite by bone, as it is often found to do, when the fragments are kept closely in contact. Here he contends, that the union is the result of the work and inoscula- tion of the vessels belonging to the substance of the fragments themselves. Lastly, he adverts to preparations, in which the vessels of callus have been actually injected by the celebrated Soemerring. (See Journ. Cotnplem. clu Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 8, p. 107, $r. 8vo. Paris, 1820.) From experiments, instituted by Breschet and Villerme, it would appear, that the union of broken bones is not exclusively owing to the ef- fusion of a particular fluid, which concretes and gradually changes into an osseous substance; nor to the ossification of the swollen and elong- ated periosteum; nor, in the majority of in- stances, tb granulations produced from the sur- faces of the fracture; but, it is frequently de- pendent upon all these circumstances together, or at least several of them ; and, in every case, it is the result of a series of changes, observable in the soft parts immediately adjoining the frac- ture, in the periosteum, in the medullary struc- ture, in the cavities and very texture of the bones themselves, and in the substance interven- ing betwixt the two fragments. In simple frac- tures, the following are stated to be the principal circumstances remarked during the process. 1. Extravasation and coagulation of a small quantity of blood between the ends of the frac- ture, which blood escapes from torn, or ruptured vessels. 2. A fluid, at first of a viscid quality, effused and secreted, as it were, between the periosteum and the bone, and likewise exuding from the sur- faces of the fracture, and the soft parts. 3. A gradual increase in the quantity' and consistence of the preceding substances blended together, forming every day a stronger and stronger connexion between the parts; then their change to a red intermediate substance be- tween the fragments, and between the bone and soft, but in the end acquires the characters of bone. 4. At the fractured part, a reunion of the pe- riosteum and soft parts, which are equally indu- rated and confused together, with the interme- diate substance between the fragments. 5. A diminution, and then an obliteration, of the medullary cavity, at first by a cartilaginous, and then a bony deposition. 6. Successive ossification of the whole of the swelling, composing the callus, and of the sub- stance between the fragments, preceded by a fibrous and cartilaginous state. 7. The return of the soft parts around the fracture, and then of the periosteum, to their na- tural stale. 8. After the union of the surfaces of the frac- ture, the medullary cavity and texture are gra- dually re-established, and the swelling, formed by the callus, always diminishes. But, in compound-fractures, besides these cir- cumstances, the production of granulations from the surfaces of the bone is also to be taken inio the account. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 38, P. 43G.) This difference from what hap- pens in the process of union of simple fractures- is also particularly noticed by Mr. Wilson; “ from the parts being exposed (in a compound fracture), the first bond of union, viz the coa- gulable ly'mph of the blood is removed, or de- stroyed before it can become vascular. Inflam- mation in consequence of the injury comes on, suppuration takes place, and, when the parts are healthy, granulations arise. These granulations from the broken extremities of the bone soon as- sume the ossifying disposition, and when they come in contact with each other unite.” (On the Skeleton, Diseases of the B- nts, §c. P. 233, 8co. Lund. 1820.) It is a curious fact, that broken cartilages are united by means of bone ; a circumstance, which has often been noticed in respect to the cartilages of the ribs. Whatever may' be the process, by which cal- lus is formed, it is during the first two or three weeks after the fracture, that the fragments un- dergo the changes, which promote their reunion. But, it is between the twentieth and thirtieth, and especially between the thirtieth and fiftieth days, that nature labours effectually in consoli- dating the callus. Hence, at this period, our care to retain the ends of the fracture in exact contact and perfectly at rest should be redoubled; for, though there are a few instances, in which deformity really proceeds from irregular ossifica- tions, it is almost alway's a fact, that the deform- ity originates from the fracture being disturbed and not kept properly reduced. (Boyer, Trane des Mat. Chir. T. 3, p. 86, §c.) 4. Of the Conduct to he adopted'at the ordinary Period of the Consolidation of Fractures : and of the Treatment of False Joints. When the requisite time for a broken bone to become firmly united has elapsed, it is proper to examine carefully and cautiously the place of the fracture, in order to learn whether the callus has acquired a suitable degree of strength. If the bone should be found to bend in the least at the injured part, the callus is not sufficiently strong, and the limb should be immediately' put up in the fracture, or, at all events, deformity. For the same reason, the patient should not be allowed to make use of his limb, immediately the fracture has united. In fractures, of the lower extremity, he ought to use crutches, and only let the weight of the trunk by degrees bear upon the injured limb. From neglect of this precaution, the callus has been known to be ab- sorbed, the limb to be shortened, nnd the patient become a cripple. An accidental slip may also pro- duce the fracture again ; for, notwithstanding the assertion of writers, the callus, so far from being firmer than the rest of the bone, is not so strong till after a certain time. (Boyer, T. 3, p. 9S») H