S 59 DISLOCATION. bv violence. Many, or most of them, arc much more calculated to pull a man’s joints asunder, than to set them to rights. Hardly any of them are so contrived as to execute the purpose for which they should be used, in a manner most adapted to the nature or mechanism of the parts on which they are to operate. The force or power of some of the instruments is not always determinable, as to degree, by the operator, and consequently may do too little or too much, ac- cording to different circumstances in the case, or more or less caution or rashness in the surgeon. If in the diagnosis of these accidents, an exact knowledge of the ligaments is of the highest im- portance, a familiar acquaintance with the mus- cles is not less essential in the treatment. In dislocations, as in fractures, says Pott, our great attention ought to be paid to the muscles belonging to the part affected. These are the moving powers, and by these the joints, as well as other moveable parts, are put into action; while the parts to be moved are in right order and dis- position, their actions will be regular and just, and generally determinable by the will of the agent, (at least in what are called voluntary mo- tions;) but when the said parts are disturbed from that order and disposition, the action or power of the muscles does not therefore cease; far from it, they still continue to exert themselves occasionally, but instead of producing regular motions, at the will of the agent, they pull and distort the parts they are attached to, and which by being displaced, cannot perform the functions 1 for which they were designed. “ Hence principally arise the trouble and dif- t ticulty which attend the reduction of luxated joints. The mere bones composing the articu- lations, or the mere connecting ligaments, would in general afford very little opposition ; and the replacing the dislocation would require very little trouble or force, was it not for the resistance of the muscles and tendons attached to and con- nected with them : for by examining the fresh joints of the human body, we shall find, that they not only are all moved by muscles and tendons, but also, that although what are called the liga- ments of the joints do really connect and hold them together, in such manner as could not ■ well be executed without them, yet in many in- 11 stances, they are, when stript of all connection, j - so very weak and lax, and so dilatable and dis- tractile, that they do little more than connect the bones and retain the synovia; and that the ffrength, as well as the motion of the joints, lepends in great measure on the muscles and I '.endons connected with and passing over them; “ md this in those articulations which are designed or the greatest quantity, as well as for celerity, >f motion. Hence, it must follow, that as the igurc, mobility, action, and strength of the prin- cipal joints, depend so much more on the mus- ics and tendons in connection with them, than >u their mere ligaments, that the former are he parts which require our first and greatest egard, these being the parts which will neces- sity oppose us in our attempts for reduction, md whose resistance must be either eluded or 'vercome; terms of very different import, and vhich every practitioner ought to be well apprised >'• , (See Poll's Chir. Works, Vol. 1.) *■ hat the muscles are the chief cause of resist- ance is strongly evinced by cases, in which the dislocation is accompanied with injury of any vital organ ; for, then the bone may be reduced by a very slight force. Thus, in a man, who had an injury of his jejunum, and a dislocation of his hip, the bone was most easily replaced. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 20.) In short, any thing, which produces faintness or weakness, facilitates the reduction of dislocated bones, as intoxication, nausea and sickness, paralysis, &c. The following, which are some of the principles laid down by Mr. Pott, merit attention.— 1. Although a joint may have been luxated by means of considerable violence, it does by no means follow, that the same degree of violence is necessary for its reduction. 2. When a joint has been luxated, at least one of the bones, of which it is composed, is de- tained in that unnatural situation by the action of some of the muscular parts in connection with it; which action, by the immobility of the joint, be- comes as it were tonic, and is not under the direction of the will of the patient. 3. That all the force used in reducing a luxated bone, be it more or less, be it by hands, towels, ligatures, or machines, ought always to be applied to the other extremity of the said bone, and as much as possible to that only'. Mr. Pott argues, that if the extending force were applied to a distant part of the limb, or to the bone below or adjoining, it would necessarily be lost in the articulation which is not luxated, owing to the yielding nature of the ligaments, and be of little or no service, in that which is dislocated. This remark, though made by Pott, and generally received as true, is very incorrect; for, it tends to state, that if you pull at the ankle, or wrist, the force does not operate on the hip, or shoulder. 4. That in the reduction of such joints, as are composed of a round head, received into a socket, such as those of the shoulder and hip, the whole body should be kept as steady as possible. 5. That in order to make use of an extending force with all possible advantage, and to excite thereby the least pain and inconvenience, it is necessary that all parts serving to the motion of the dislocated joint, or in any degree connected with it, be put into such a state as to give the smallest possible degree of resistance. 6. That in the reduction of such joints as con- sist of a round head, moving in an acetabulum or socket, no attempt ought to be made for re- placing the said head, until it has by extension been brought forth from the place where it is, and nearly to a level with the said socket. This will shew us, says Mr. Pott, a fault in the com- mon ambi, and why that kind of ambi, which Mr. Freke called his commander, is a much bet- ter instrument than any of them, or indeed than all; because it is a lever joined to an extensor ; and that capable of being used with the arm, in such position as to require the least extension, and to admit the most; besides which it is gra- duated, and therefore perfectly under the domi- nion of the operator. It will shew us, why the old method by the door or ladder, sometimes produced a fracture of the neck of the scapula ; as Mr. Pott saw it do himself. Why if a sulli- cient degree of extension be not made, the towel over the surgeon’s shoulder, and under the pa-