Ml JOINTS. 745 ■ chylosis, by allowing it to vary as little as pos- sible from one position.” (See Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, ]>• 33•'>•) Qnibus dint unto dolore, says Hippocrates, ■ischiadico vcxatis coxa cxcidit, Us femur con- tabcscit et claudicant, nisi nrantur. Forming an eschar, or issue, is the most efficacious plan of treating the disease even now known. A caustic issue seems to me more benefic ial than a blister. The depression, just behind and below *he trochanter major, is the situation, in which surgeons usually make the issue, and the size of the eschar should be nearly as large as a crown piece. It is generally necessary to keep the ■issue open a very long time. When the thigh- bone is dislocated, and the patient survives, the , case mostly ends in anchylosis. For the cure of the disease in adults, Mr. i Brodie and Dr. Albers have also expressed a pre- ference to caustic issues; but in children, and . even in grown up persons, when the complaint is recent, they agree in thinking blisters capable of i affording complete relief. Mr. Brodie states, : that, in these cases, they are more efficacious, when kept open with the savine ointment, than repeatedly applied. With respect to issues, he acknowledges, that behind the great trochanter is the most convenient place for them; but, he 1 believes that they have more effect, when made , on the outside of the joint, on the front edge of the terror vaginae femoris muscle. Instead of ing the issue open with beans, Mr. Brodie i has found it a more effectual practice to rub the ; sore, two or three times a week, with the potassa i i'usa, or sulphate of copper. In particular cases, where the pain was very severe, this gentleman made a seton in the groin over the trunk of the anterior crural nerve, which plan, he says, af- : fords quicker relief, though in the end it is less '. to be depended upon for a cure, than caustic i issues. • In Dr. Albers’s work, the great efficacy of issues and blisters in giving immediate relief to the severe pain in the knee, is illustrated by some valuable observations. He speaks also very fa- vourably of the moxa, the employment of which he says is not very painful; a remark, in which Langenbeck concurs. ( See Bill. B. 2. p. 'll.') Dr. Albers, in the hectical stages, recommends opium, as highly useful, especially when com- bined with musk, or camphor. The occurrence of suppuration makes avast difference in the prognosis. “ The formation of * even the smallest quantity of pus in the joint in ' cases of this disease, in the young person, con- siderably diminishes, and in the adult almost pre- cludes the hope of ultimate recovery.” (Brodie, in Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6,p. 347.) This > gentleman is not much in favour of opening the abscesses early, at least, before the joint has been kept for some time perfectly at rest. He has seen no ill consequences arise from the puncture of the lancet Aemaining open, and he has not found, that, in cases of carious joints, the method of evacuating the matter, recommended by Mr. Abernethy (see Lumbar Abscess'), is attended with any particular advantage. Mr. J. Burns, in the second vol. of his “ Disser- tations on Inflammation,” p. 311, has recorded a remarkable instance, in which this joint was af- fected with that intractable and fatal distemper, the fungus hmmatodes. The case was at first supposed to be the disease, of which we have just been treating in the preceding columns. The limb seemed to be elongated, and issues were employed, without any material benefit. The upper part of the thigh swelled, while the lower wasted away. The patient lost his appetite, had a quick pulse, and passed sleepless nights. The part was rubbed with anodyne balsam, and lau- danum given every night; but, these means were only productive of temporary benefit. After some months, a difficulty of making water came on, which ended in a complete retention. It being found impracticable to introduce a catheter, and a large elastic tumor, supposed to be the distended bladder, being felt within the rectum, a trocar was pushed into the swelling. A good deal of bloody fluid was thus discharged- After- wards a considerable quantity of high-coloured fetid urine continued to escape from the urethra. In about a week after this operation, the patient died. On dissection, Mr. Burns found the hip-joint completely surrounded with a soft matter, re- sembling brain, inclosed in thin cells, and here and there other cavities, full of thin bloody water, presented themselves. The acetabulum and head of the os femoris were both carious. The mus- cles were quite pale, and almost like boiled liver, having lost their fibrous appearance. The same kind of substance was found in the pelvis, and most of the inside of the affected bones was cari- ous. Large cells, containing bloody water, were ob- served in the diseased substance, and it was into one of these cavities, that the trocar had entered, when the attempt was made to tap the bladder. Gil. Budceus, Do Curandis Articularibus Mor- bis, 12mo. Paris, 1539. J. G. Widdmann, Tie Geuuum Siructura eorumque Morbis, Helmstad, 1744 (Haller, Lisp. Chir. 4, 489). Ford's Observations on the Disease of the Hip- joint, to which are added, some remarks on White-Swelling, 8vo. Load. 1794. Doerner, De Gravioribus quibusdam Cartilaginum Mutationibus, 8vo. Tubingcc, 1798. Crotc- ther on White Swelling, Jj-c. Edit. 2, 1808. J. Burns on Inflammation, Vol. 2, p. 311. Wm. Falconer, A Dissertation on Iscliias, and on the Use of the Bath Waters as a Remedy, 8vo. Load. 1805. Russell on morbid Affec- tions of the Knee, 8vo. Edinb. 1802. II. Park, An Account of a New Method of treat- ing Diseases of the Joints of the Knee and Elbow, 8vo. Loud. 1783. Also II. Park and P. F. Moureau, Cases of the Excision of ca- rious Joints; with Ohs. by Dr. J. Jeffrey, 12mo. Glasg. 1806. ,7. A. Albers, Abhan'd- lungen uber die Coxalgie, oder das sogenannte freywillige Hinken der Kinder, 4 to. Wien. 1807. This work includes many valuable re- marks, but, owing to the crowded state of this edition, it has been impossible to do his merit sufficient justice. G. Wirth, De Coxalgia, 12mo. Wiccb. 1809. Paletta, Adversaria Chir. Prima, 4to. Hey's Practical Observa- tions in Surgery, p. 354, <£c. Edit. 3. Boyer, Traitc des Maladies Chir. T- 4, Paris, 1814. Reimarus, De Tuviorc Ligament or urn circa articulos, Fungo articulorum die to, Lcydw, 1757. Brambilla, in Acta Acad. Med. Chir. Vindob. T. I. Brodies Pathological R(.