so AMPUTATION shot wounds, specified by Bilguer, then the neces- sity for amputation in such cases would cease of itself (Normen fur die Abldsmig grosserer Glied- masstu, p. 13, 4t<>. Berlin, 1812.) As the author of another valuable modern work lias said, it is an excellent observation, founded on the purest humanity, and justified by the soundest professional principles, that to save one limb is infinitely more honourable to the surgeon, than to have performed numerous amputations, however successful; but, it is a remark, notwithstanding its quaintness, fully as true, that it is much better for a man to “ to live with three limbs, than to die with four.” (Henncn on Military Surgery, p. 251, Ed. 2) To this saying should be added the reflection, that some unfortunate beings, influenced by a relish for life, have been known to submit to the loss of all their legs and arms, and yet recover. In the Hotel des Invalides at Paris, mutilated objects are in recollection, who had lost their thighs and arms, so that, unless assisted, they could not stir, and it was necessary to feed and wait upon them, like new-born infants. (Morand Opusc.de Chir. p. 183, anti Graefe Op. cit.p. 23.) The amputation of the large limbs was an- ciently practised under many disadvantages. The best way of making the incisions was unknown; the ignorance of the old surgeons of the right me- thod of stopping hemorrhage was the death of a large proportion of the patients, who had cou- rage to submit to the operation; the mode of healing the wound by the first intention was not understood, or not duly appreciated; and the in- struments were as awkward and clumsy, as the dressings were irritating and improper. Modern practitioners have materially simplified all the chief operations in surgery; an object, which has been accomplished not merely by let- ting anatomical science be the main guide of their proceedings ; not simply by devising more judicious, and less painful methods; not only by diminishing the number, and improving the construction of instruments; but also in a very essential degree by abandoning the use of a mul- titude of external applications, most of which were useless or hurtful. The Greek, Roman, and Arabian practitioners amputated limbs with feelings of alarm, and, in general, with the most melancholy results; while modern surgeons proceed to the operation com- pletely fearless, we'l knowing that it mostly proves successful: hence, as Graefe justly re- marks, nothing can be more evident, than that the patient’s safety must depend very much upon the kind of practice. (See Norman fur die Ablosung grii'Serer Cl/iedmassen, p. 1.) By practice, is here implied the mode in which the operation is performed, the way in which the wound is dressed, and the whole of the after- treatment. But, much improved as amputation has been, it cannot be dissembled, that it is an operation at once terrible to bear, dreadful to behold, and sometimes severe and fatal in the consequences which it itself produces, while the patient, if saved, is left for ever afterwards in a crippled, mutilated state. Hence, it is the surgeon’s duty never to have recourse to so serious a proceed- ing, without a perfect and well-grounded con- viction of its necessity. Amputation should be generally regarded as the last expedient to which a surgeon ought to resort; an expedient justi- ( liable, as a late writer says, only when the part is j cither already gangrenous, or the seat of so much I injury, or disease, that the attempt to preserve it J any longer, would expose the patient’s life to j the greatest danger. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 1, p. 472.) Although, says a distinguished modern sur- I geon, this amounts to a confession, that the cure of some local disorders is not within the limits of our art, yet, on the other hand, it furnishes a ! proof, that surgery may be the means of saving 1 life under circumstances, which, without its assist- ance, would infallibly have a fatal termination, j The operation is adopted as the safest measure: i the cause is removed for the prevention of con- j sequences. (Graefe, Op. cit.p 14.) Nothing can be more absurd, or more misap- plied, than the censures sometimes passed upon amputation, because the body is mutilated by it, &c. Although, as a modern writer remarks, the objection proves the limitation of human know- ledge and ability, it must be very unfair on this • account to throw blame on surgery, or the practi- I tionerwho thus saves the patient’s life. For, with- out dwelling upon the fact, that a humane surgeon would never amputate through a mere love of ope- I rating, and without urgent cause, one may simply ask, are all diseases in their nature fcurable? Does not the surgeon cure such as are curable, without mutilation? And are not cases, which were in the beginning remediable, often first brought to the surgeon, when from neglect they have become totally incurable? Is it not his duty then to employ the only means left for saving the patient? And is not the preservation of a long and healthy life a compensation for the sacrifice? Would it not be just as reasonable to blame an architect, when the irresistible force of j lightning or a bomb destroys his building? In- deed, is it not rather a greater honour to surgery, that, even when death has already taken possession, as it were, of a part, and is threatening inevitable destruction to the whole, a means is yet furnished, not only for saving the patient’s life, but for bringing him into a state, in which he may re- cover his former good health? (Brunninghnuscn, Erfahrungen und Bemerhungen ul-er Die Ampu- tation, p. 11, 12mo. Bamberg, 1818.) Though amputation is in every respect much better, than in former times, and its right performance is by no means difficult; I •would not wish to be thought to say, that it is always or even usually done secundum arten, because long opportunities of observation have convinced me of the contrary; and the reason of the knife being yet so badly handled in this part of surgery, may generally be imputed to care- lessness, slovenly habits, or, what is as bad, a want of ordinary dexterity. There are se- veral egregious faults in the method of ampu- tating, which even many hospital surgeons in this metropolis are guilty of; but these we shall find, when we criticise them, are, for the most part, easily avoidable, without any particular share of skill being required. A greater difficulty is to ascertain with precision the cases, which demand the operation; those in which it may be dis- pensed with; and the exact periods at which it should be practised. These are considerations