VARICOSE VEINS. 11:56 Home lias related many eases of varicose veins in the leg, some of them accompanied with te- dious ulcers, which, after the vena saphena rmijor had been tied, as it passes over the inside of the knee, were readily healed, and the dilatation of the veins of the leg relieved. This practice has sometimes answered ; but it has also had its failures. Amongst other evils, an inflammation of the tied vein has been observed, extending very far in the vessel, and succeeded by great constitu- tional disorder, symptoms very analogous to those of typhus fever, and death. In some of these cases, previously to their termination, abscesses form in the direction of the vessel be- low or above the ligature; in others, such col- lections of matter are not observed. (See Tra- vers on Wounds and Ligatures of Veins. Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 216, and Oldknorv, in Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. Vol. 5. R. Carmichael, in Trans, of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians, Vol. 2, p. 345, Qc.) Indeed, the dangers, arising from an inflam- mation of the internal coat of the veins, are nowge- nerallyacknowledged, and every endeavour should be made to avoid them. A case which happened in Guy’s hospital,, in 1816, fully proves them: the femoral vein happened to be pricked in an operation for aneurism, and a ligature was ap- plied round the aperture. Inflammation of its internal coat took place, extending up into the vena cava, and the patient is supposed to have died of the indisposition resulting from it. (See Travers's Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 222.) Hence arises one of the most weighty objec- tions to the practice of tying the trunks of va- ricose veins, with the view of curing their morbid dilatation, and its effects upon the limb. As Mr. Brodie observes, it seems to be now established by the experience of modern surgeons that a mechanical injury, inflicted on the trunk of one of the larger veins, is liable to be followed by inflammation of its internal membrane, and a fever of a very serious nature; and the occa- sional occurrence of these symptoms, after the ligature, or even the simple division of the vena saphaena, has made surgeons less confident, than formerly, of the propriety of attempting such operations for the relief of a varicose state of the branches of that vessel in the leg. Certain re- flections, however, induced Mr Brodie to think, that the same ill effects would not follow a simi- lar operation performed on the branches them- selves. “ Where the whole of the veins of the leg are in a state of morbid dilatation, and the distress produced by the disease is not referred to any particular part, there seem to be no rea- sonable expectations of benefit, except from the uniform pressure of a well applied bandage. But, not unfrequently, we find an ulcer, which is irritable, and difficult to heal on account of its connexion with some varicose vessels; or with- out being accompanied by an ulcer, there is a varix in one part of the leg, painful, and perhaps liable to bleed, while the veins in other parts are nearly'in a natural state, or, at any rate, are not the source of particular uneasiness. In some of these cases, I formerly applied the caustic pot- _i _ .. olsMtrrli nf flip klrin nrirl varix, to.afFord but an inadequate compensation for the pain, to which he was subjected by the use ol the caustic, and the inconvenience arising from the tedious healing of the ulcer, which remained after the separation of the slough. “ In other cases, I made an incision with a scalpel through the varix and skin over it. This destroyed the varix as completely as it was de- stroyed by the caustic, and I found it to be pre- ferable to the use of the caustic, as the operation occasioned less pain, and as, in consequence of there being no loss of substance, the wound was cicatrized in a much shorter space of time. I employed the operation, such as I have de- scribed it, with advantage in several instances; but, some months ago, I made an improvement in the method of performing it, by which it is much simplified; rendered less formidable not only in appearance, but also in reality; and fol- lowed by an equally certain, but more speedy cure. “ It is evident (says Mr. Brodie), that the extensive division of the skin over a varix can be attended with no advantage. On the con- trary, there must be a disadvantage in it, as a certain time will necessarily be required for the cicatrization of the external wound. The im- provement, to which I allude, consists in this: the varicose vessels are completely divided, while the skin over them is preserved entire, with the exception of a moderate puncture, which is ne- cessary for the introduction of the instrument with which the incision of the veins is effected. Thus the wound of the internal parts is placed under the most favourable circumstances for be- ing healed, and the patient avoids the more tedious process, which is necessary for the cica- trization of a wound in the skin above. “ For this operation, I have generally em- ployed a narrow, sharp-pointed bistoury, slightly curved, with its cutting edge on the convex side. Having ascertained the precise situation of the vein, or cluster of veins, from which the distress of the patient appears principally to arise, I in- troduce the point of the bistoury through the skin on one side of the varix, and pass it on between the skin and the vein, with one of the flat surfaces turned forwards, and the other back- wards, until it reaches the opposite side. I then turn the cutting edge of the bistoury backwards, and, in withdrawing the instrument, the division of the varix is effected. The patient experiences pain, which is occasionally severe, but subsides in the course of a short time. There is always hemorrhage, which would be often profuse if neglected, but which is readily stopped bv a mo- derate pressure, made by means of a compress and bandage carefully applied.” Mr. Brodie particularly enjoins the necessity of keeping the patient quietly in bed for four or five days after the operation, and removing the bandage and first dressings with the utmost care and gentleness. He also cautions surgeons not to make the incision more deep, than absolutely necessary. Inflammation of the coats of the veins has not occurred in any of the cases, in which Mr.Brodie has adopted this method of treat- ment. This gentleman wishes it to be under- liowpvpr. that he does not recommend the