ANUS, 195 grievance of the prolapsus, which came on at every time of going to stool, and lasted for se- veral hours. This judicious surgeon, at first, advised the patient to wash the prolapsed part with a lotion composed of an infusion of oak bark, lime-water, and spirit of wine, and keeping on the tumour compresses, wet with this fluid, and supported by the T bandage. The disease, however, was too obstinate to be cured by this treatment. Nor could Mr. Hey succeed in re- ducing the bowel, when it came down. “Although (says he) the prolapsed part of the intestine con- sisted of the whole inferior extremity of the rec- tum, and was of considerable bulk, yet, the im- pediment to reduction did not arise from the stricture of the sphincter ani; for, I could in- troduce my finger with ease during the pro- cidentia ; but, it seemed to arise from the relaxed state of the lowest part of the intestine, and of the cellular membrane, which connects it with the surrounding parts. My attempt proved vain, as to its immediate object, yet it suggested an idea, which led to a perfect cure of this obstinate disorder. The relaxed state of the part, which came down at every evacuation, and the want of sufficient stricture hr the sphincter ani, satisfied me, that it was impossible to afford any effectual relief to my patient, unless I could bring about a more firm adhesion to the surrounding cellular membrane, and increase the proper action of the sphincter. Nothing seemed so likely to effect these purposes, as the removal of the pendulous flap, and the other protuberances, which sur- rounded the anus.” This operation was per- formed on the 13th of November. On the 15th the gut protruded, and did not gradually retire, as it used to do. Mr. Hey attempted to procure ease by means of opiates and fomentations, and avoided immediately trying to reduce the pro- lapsed part. However, the prolapsus continued so long, that the appearance of the part began to alter, and, therefore, on the 16th he made an at- tempt at reduction, and succeeded with great ease. However, as a good deal of pain in the hypogastrium was still complained of, the patient was bled in the evening, and gently purged with the oleum ricini. These means gave relief; but, as some pain in the belly yet continued, an opiate was given. A low diet, linseed tea, lac amyg- dalae, &c. w ere ordered, and a little of the oleum ricini every morning, or every other morning, with an opiate after a stool had been procured. “ By proceeding in this mariner for some days, regular stools were procured, without any per- manent inconvenience. My patient recovered very well, and was freed from this distressing com- plaint, which had afflicted him so many years.” (See Hei/’t Pract. Ohs. p. 438, <$-C. Erf. 2.) This, and some other cases, which this gentle- man has related, convincingly exemplify the necessity of paying attention to the removal of excrescences, hemorrhoids, and other tumours, situated about the lower part of the rectum, in cases of prolapsus ani; for, unless this object be accomplished, the disease may resist every other treatment, and afflict the patient, as long as lie ,ve®, *n the manner so well described in the a lore example. An elderly gentleman, whom I 'now, was troubled for many years with a pro- lapsus ani, which used to come on several times a week, sometimes at the vault, and sometimes at other periods. Several of the first surgeons were consulted, who failed in affording per- manent benefit, because they omitted to extir- pate some hemorrhoidal excrescences, situated at the lower part of the rectum; for, when these were afterwards removed, the prolapsus ani en- tirely disappeared. The last indication in the treatment is the re- moval, and avoidance, of all such causes as are known to have a tendency to bring on the com- plaint. In infants, making them sit on a high close-stool, with their feet hanging freely down, will often prevent a fresh protrusion of the rectum. Every thing, tending to cause either diarrhoea, or costiveness, should be avoided. In the ge- nerality of cases, however, there is an inclination to costiveness, which must be obviated by the mildest means. For this purpose, Mr. Hey used to prescribe half .an ounce of the oleum ricini, which is to be taken every morning, or every other morning, as circumstances may require. The same practitioner sometimes also employed, in addition to this medicine, a clyster composed of a pint of water gruel, and a large spoonful of treacle. The tone of the relaxed intestine is to be restored by the continued use of cold clysters, made with the decoction of oak bark, alum, and vinegar. In one obstinate case, under the care of the late Mr. Hey, he recommended the follow- ing lotion for washing the part affected, during the state of prolapsus, and he also advised its ap- plication to the anus in the intervals, by means of a thick compress, supported by the T bandage. R. Aquae calcis simplicis lbij. Cort. Quercias contus. ^iv. f. infusum per hebdomadam, etcola- turse adde Sp. Vini rect. ^iv. ft. lotio. (See Hey’s Pract. Ohs. p. 442, Ed. 2.) Too much irritability of the rectum may be lessened with opium. The intussusception of the higher part of the bowel, especially of the colon, or caecum, causing a protrusion at the anus, is always incurable, as it is not in the power of art to rectify the displace- ment. Some extraordinary cases have proved, however, that large portions of the intestinal canal may, thus inverted, be separated and voided, and the patients recover. (See Intussusception.) According to Mr. Travers, when an artificial anus is complicated with prolapsus, the case very rarely admits of cure. (See Inquiry into the process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the In- testines, p. 374.) Surgical writers have been too much in the habit of confounding together prolapsus ani and intussusception. In the latter disease, they have even fallen into the error of supposing that the whole of the rectum becomes everted, in conse- quence of the relaxation of the sphincter and levatores ani, and that it then draws after it other portions of the intestinal canal. But, they ought to have been undeceived by the strangula- tion, which sometimes occurs under such cir- cumstances, and which not only throws a grent obstacle in the way of the reduction ol the dis- placed part, but even sometimes brings on mor- tification. Besides, the connexions ol the rectum with the neighbouring parts, by means ot the cellular substance, which surrounds it, and the attachment of this intestine to the posterior sur- face of the urinary bladder, render the above nrirrin nf tltr* r*rmn,lninf imnoSSlble. Such Qtl CX-