504 FltiE Parisian Cliinirgical Journal. Sir J. Earle, A Letter containing some Observations on the Frac- tures of the lower Limbs ; to which is added, an Account of a Contrivance, to administer Cleanli- ness and Comfort to the bed-ridden, or persons confined to bed by age, accident, sickness, or other infirmity, 8io. Loud. 1807. Richerand, Nnso- graphie Chir. T. 3, Edit. 4. LecSille, Nouvelle Doctrine Chir. T. 2, 1812. Assatini, Munuule di Chirurgia, Parte Prima, Milano, 1812. Du- puytren, des Fractures ou Courbnres des ns des Enfuns, in Bulletin de la Fuculle de Med. Paris, 1811. Idem sur la Fracture de I Extra mil d injericure du phone, les luxations> et les nccidens (ftti en tont In suite, in Aimuaire Med. Chir. de Pans, 4to. Paris. 1819. Roux, Relation d’un PoyageJ'ait u Lnndrescn 1814, ou Para I Lie de ia Chtrurgie Ang/oise avec la Chirurgie Franqoise, p. 173, <3(c. Paris, 1815. Med. Chir. Trims. Vo I. 2, p. 47, #c.; Vol. 5, p. 358, #c.; Val. 7, p. 103. Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, in/ J. Cross, p. 87, &;r. ' FKJENUM LINGtLE. In infants, the tongue is sometimes too closely tied down, by reason of the fraenum being extremely short, or continued too far forwards. In the latter case, the child will not he able to use its tongue, with sufficient ease in the action of sucking, swal- lowing, &c. in consequence of its point being confined at the bottom of the mouth. Though this affection is not unfrequent, it is less com- mon, than is generally supposed by parents and nurses. When the child is small, and the nurse’s nipple large, it is common for her to suppose the child to he tongue-tied, when, in fact, it is only the smallness of the child’s tongue, that prevents it from surrounding the nipple, so as to enable it to suck with facility. Mothers also commonly suspect the existence of such an erroneous formation whenever the child is long in beginning to talk. The reality of tire case may always he easily ascertained by examining the child’s mouth. In the natural state, the point of the tongue is always capable of being turned upward, towards the palate, as the fraenum does not reach along about a quarter of an inch of the lower part of the tongue from the apex. But, in tongue-tied children, hv looking upon one side, we may see the fraenum extending from the back part to the very point, so that the whole length of the tongue is tied down, and unnaturally confined. The plan of cure is to divide as much of the fraenum as seems proper for setting the tongue at liberty. The incision, however, should not be carried more extensively backward, than is ne- cessary, lest the raninal arteries he cut; an accident, that lias been known to have proved fatal. For the same reason, the scissars used for this operation, should have no points. I think the following piece of advice, ottered by a modern author, may be of service to practitioners, who ever find it necessary to divide the fraenum lingum : “It is not the relations of the trunk of the lingual artery alone, which the student ought to make himself acquainted with. He will do well to study the position of the arteria ranina in respect to the fraenmn linguae. Ibis informa- tion will teach him the impropriety of point- ing the scissars upward and backward, when FRA snipping the fraenum, an operation, by the by, oftener performed, than needed. He will learn, that the ranular artery lies just above the attach- ment of the fraenum; so that if he would avoid it, he must turn the points of the scissars rather downward ; if lie do not, the artery will proba- bly suffer.” (A. Burns, Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 239.) When an infant has the power of sucking, this proceeding should never be resorted to, even though the fraenum may have the appearance of being too short, or extending too far forwards. (Fab. Hildumis, centur. 3. Ohs. 28; Petit, Traill des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 265, Edit. 1774.) Although the operation of dividing the frae- num linguae is for the most part done, without an)r bad consequences, surgeons should remem- ber well, that it is liable to dangers, especially, when performed either unnecessarily, or unskil- fully. Besides the fatal events, which have occasion- ally resulted from wounding the raninal arteries, the records of surgery furnish us with proofs, that the mere bleeding from the raninal veins, and the small vessels of the fraenum, may con- tinue so long, in consequence of the infant’s in&ssahtly sucking, as to produce death. In such cases, the child swallows the blood, as fast as it issues from the vessels, so that the cause of death may even escape observation. But, if the body be opened, the stomach and intestines will be found to contain large quantities of blood. (See Dionis, Cours d’Operations de Chirurgie, 7c l)i monstration ; Petit, Traile des Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 282, Sfc.) Another accident, sometimes following an un- necessary, or too extensive a division of the frae- num, consists in the tongue becoming thrown backward over the glottis into the pharynx, where it lies fixed, and causes suffocation. The observa- tions of Petit on this subject are highly inter- esting. (See Op. cit. T. 3, p. 267, <S"e.) Lastly, it should he known, that an infant’s inability to move its tongue, or suck, is not always owing to a malformation of the fraenum. Sometimes the tongue is applied and glued, as it were, to the roof of the mouth, by a kind of mucous substance, and in this case, it should he separated with the handle of a spatula. By this means, infants have been saved, which were un- able to suck during several days, and were in imminent danger of perishing from want of nou- rishment. (See Mhioires de I’Acud. de Chi- rurgie, T. 3, p. 16, Edit. 4 to.) See particularly Petit, Traite des Maladies Chir. T. S, p. 260, Sfr. Dionis Cours d’ Operations, 7e. IJemonstr. Sabatier, Mhlecine O/kratoirr, T. 3, p. 132, Sfc. Lassus, l}uthologic Chir. T. 2, p. 454, Richerand. Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 284, Ed. 2. Richter, Anfnngsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 4, Kap. 2, p. 1 J, Ed. 1800. FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. A morbid brit- tleness of the hones. Boyer imputes mollities ossium to a deficiency of lime in their structure ; fragilitas ossivm to a deficiency of the soft matter naturally entering into their texture. He states, that a certain degree of fragilitas ossium necessarily occurs in old age, because the proportion of lime in th® hones naturally increases as wc grow old, white