450 FRACTURES. jury, before he arrived at Pavia. The wound appeared simple, and likely to heal as soon as the injured portion of the tibia had exfoliated. The event turned out otherwise, and the thigh was amputated. Leveille has preserved the tibia, upon which the impression of the ball may be distinguished, and, from this point, run several longitudinal and oblique lines, which extend from the lower third towards the upper head of the tibia, and pass through the whole thickness of the parietes of the medullary canal. They are acknowledged to be really longitudinal fractures, by Dubois, Chaufrier, Dumeril, Deschamps, and Roux, who were appointed by the Ecole de Medecine to enquire into the fact. (Leveille, Nouvellc Doctrine Chir. T. 2, p. 158.) In a foregoing article of this dictionary, I mentioned, that, in several of the cases of fractured thigh bones from gun-shot violence, which were under the care of Dr. Cole and myself in Hol- land, the bone was split longitudinally to the ex- tent of seven or eight inches. (See Amputation, p. 21.) The fact, however, that bullets and other balls do produce longitudinal fractures, is now universally admitted; and were there any doubt upon the subject, a specimen sent to Eng- land by my friend Dr. Cole would soon remove it. Boyer, who, a few years ago, denied the possibility of longitudinal fractures, in his late work remarks:—“ On trouveneanmoins, a la suite des plaies d’armes a feu, les osfendus suivavt leur longueur, jusques dans Leurs articulations,”—but he is correct, when he adds, that such instances afford no proof of the possibility of a simple lon- gitudinal fracture. (See Traitd des Maladies Chir. T. 3. p. 10.) 4. In regard to the respective position of the fragments. These differences are highly im- portant to be understood, because, as Eoyer re- marks, the treatment of fractures consists almost entirely in remedying, or preventing, the dis- placement of the fragments. It is not to be supposed, however, that such displacement is an absolutely essential symptom of all fractures, for it seldom exists in members composed of two bones, when only one of them is broken. Nei- ther does it constantly happen in every fracture of the neck of a bone, as is exemplified in certain fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, the fragments of which sometimes change their re- lative situation only when the patient tries to' walk, or the limb is imprudently moved about. Fractures of the leg are also observed, in which there is neither a displacement of the fragments, nor an alteration in the shape of the limb, espe- cially when the tibia alone is fractured near its upper part, where it is very thick. When the ulna alone is broken at its upper part, there is hardly ever any displacement. The correspond- ing surfaces of the fragments having a large ex- tent cannot be separated, or can only be so with difficulty. The fibula also resists the causes, which tend to produce displacement. But, it is a symptom, which .almost invariably occurs when both bones of the leg, or forearm, are fractured, together; as also in fractures of limbs, which contain only one bone, on account of the little extent of the surfaces of the fracture, and the great number of muscles, which tend to displace hem. The displacement may happen in respect to the diameter, length, direction, or circumference, of the bone. In respect to the diameter. Transverse frac- tures are the only cases, in which this kind of displacement is observed. The two fragments may either be in contact at a part of their sur- faces, or they may not be in contact at all. In the latter circumstance, the limb is shortened by the ends of the fracture slipping over each other. In respect to length. This mode of displace- ment, in which the ends of the broken bone, ride more or less over each other, constantly occurs in oblique fractures, and sometimes in transverse ones, when the displacement, in the direction of the diameter of the bone, has been such that the surfaces of the fracture are no longer in con- tact. It will be hereafter explained, that when- ever the limb is shortened in fractures of the extremities, it is the lower fragment which is dis- placed. We may refer to the species of displacement here spoken of, that which takes place in frac- tures of the patella, olecranon, and os calcis; but with this difference, that the fragments, in- stead of riding over each other, separate from each other in the direction of the length of the bone, and continue separated by an interspace more or less considerable. In respect to the direction of the bone. In this kind of displacement, the two fragments form an angle more or less prominent, and the bone ap- pears arched. It is principally observed in com- minuted fractures. It may also happen in simple fractures ; for instance, in the leg, when the limb in a straight posture does not lie upon a surface exactly horizontal, and the heel is lower, than the rest of the leg. The angular projection is then anterior. On the contrary, it would be pos- terior, if the heel were too much raised. In respect to the circumference of the hone. This displacement occurs when the lower frag- ment performs a rotatory movement, while the upper one continues motionless. Thus, in frac- tures of the neck of the femur, if the foot is badly supported by the apparatus, its weight, together with that of the limb, and the action of the muscles, inclines it outward, and turns the lower fragment in the same direction. Besides the simple displacements, above-de- scribed, there are others of a more complicated nature, which happen in several directions at once. For example, such is the displacement, which is observed in a fracture of the thigh-bone, when the lower fragment is drawn upward and inward, while the foot is turned outward. Let us next consider the causes producing the displacement of fractures. The bones being only passive instruments of loco-motion, possess not, in their own organiza- tion, any cause of the change of situation which takes place; but yield to the impulse of external bodies, the weight of the member, and the action of the muscles. The displacement may be produced by an ex- ternal force, either at the moment when the fracture happens, and by the very action of the fracturing cause itself; or it may be caused bv the weight of the body when the fracture precedes the fall; or, lastly, it may be brought on by *