HERNIA. 623 cera can more easily escape through the inguinal It is true, that when the tumor has in time ac- r;UlT following the spermatic coril, than they quired a large size, and its fundus is inclined in earT'descend along the'crural vessels, and raise a parallel manner to the fold of'the thigh, it the margin of the aponeurosis of the external partly or entirely covers the crural vessels, and oblique muscle, that forms the crural arch. In even the crural nerve, as Walter says lie once women, an opposite disposition prevails, in con- observed. (Sylloge comment, anat.p.24.) But, sequence of the smallness of the inguinal ring, it is not thence to be concluded, that the tumor which in them, only gives passage to the round in the beginning descended over the crural ves- ligament of the uterus, and besides is situated scls, much less betwixt them and the anterior lenver down, and nearer the pubes, than it is in superior spinous process of the ileum. Neither men, whilst on the contrary, the crural arch is must it be imagined, that the neck of the hernial more extensive, by reason of the wider form of sac becomes removed from the inner to the the pelvis. Morgagni expressly says, that he outer side of these vessels. If these two cases never met with the crural hernia in the dead body ever happen, they must be very rare; and the of any male subject. Mihi, ut venrni fatear, best authors, who have treated of crural hernia, nondum nminfacminis acciditut earn viderem. concur in stating, that in performing the ope- (Dc scd. ct cans. morb. Epist. 34, 15.) Cam- ration, they have constantly found the viscera per gives us to understand almost the same situated on the inside of the crural vessels, but thing. (leones Heruiarum, in Pro:fut.) He- never on their outside. Even when the tumor, vin often operated for this kind of hernia in after acquiring a considerable size, is situated females, but only once in the male subject, transversely over the crural vessels, the neck of (Pathol, el Thcrap. p. 406.) Sandifort and the hernial sac has always been found upon their Walter have both seen but a single instance of it inner side, that is to say, between them and the in the dead body of the male subject. (Obs. pubes. Le Dran, (Observ.de Chir. T. 2, p. 2.) Anat. Pathol, cup. 4, p. 72.) Syllogc comment.- La Faye, (Cours d'Operations de Dionis, p. anat. p. 24, obs. 21.) Arnaud himself, to whom 358.) Petit, ((Euvrcs Posthumes, T. 2,jp.219,) modern surgery is highly indebted for many im- Morgagni,'(De Sed. ct Cans. Morb. epist. 34, portant precepts on the operation for the stran- 15,) Arnaud, (Mem. de Chir. Tom. 2, p. 768,) gulatcd crural hernia in botli sexes, candidly con- Gunz, (De Herniis Ubelhts, p. 78, (Bertrandi, fesses, that he never had an opportunity of dis- (Trattato dellc Opcrazoni, T. 1, anvot.p. 218,) secting a hernia of this kind in the male sub- Pott, (Chirnrg. Works, Vol. 2, p. 152,) De- ject.” (Scarpa, Traite des Hcrnies, p. 201.) sault, (Traite das Mai. Chiring, p. 191 —195,) Scarpa had at his disposal a male subject, in B. Bell, (A System of Surgery, Vol. 1, p 387,) which there was a crural hernia, and he availed Richter, (Traite des Hcrnies, chap. 34,) Nessi, himself of the opportunity of examining the parts (Instituz. Chir. T. 2, p. 198,) Lassus, (Med. with the utmost care. He first injected the Opc.r. T. ],p. 198,) and many other writers, blood-vessels; he afterwards attentively dissected all concur upon this point. In support of their all the parts concerned in the disease; and he opinion, (says Scarpa,) I could cite a great num- has published an exact description of the par- her of cases of my own, which I have collected ticulars, illustrated by an engraving. either in operating on several individuals for According to Hesselbach, the femoral hernia, crural hernia, or in dissecting the same kind of though not common in men, is more frequent, hernia in the bodies of many female subjects, than is generally believed, and often overlooked and in that of the man, from whom I have taken on account of its being very small. (Uebcr den the 8th plate. Lastly, also, having had an / Trsprung, •pe. derLeisten-und-Sehenkelbruchc, opportunity of dissecting in a female an enor- p. 47.) Ihus, in an example published in a mous crural hernia, which descended one-third modern work, an inguinal and femoral hernia of the way down the thigh, I observed that the were met with together in a gentleman, sixty- neck of the sac did not encroach at all upon the three years of age. On exflmination of the crural vessels, but lay entirely on their inner body after death, a small piece of intestine, side.” (Scarpa, Traite des Hermes, p. 203, forming a crural hernia, was found strangulated, 206.) and concealed under an inguinal rupture and a The tumor, on account of its situation, is liable mass of fat. (C■ Bell's Surgical Obs. Vol. I, to be mistaken for an enlarged inguinal gland ; P- I8?-/ and many fatal events are recorded to have hap- .rccording to the observations of Scarpa, and pened from the surgeon’s ignorance of the ex- all the best modern writers upon surgery,, the istence of the disease. Mr. Lawrence once saw crural hernia forms, both in the male and iemale an hospital surgeon mistake a crural hernia for a subject, in the cellular substance, which accom- glandular tumor, and the patient died, without panies the crural vessels below Poupart’s liga- any attempt being made to afford relief bv the ment. The swelling follows the internal side of operation. (P. 391. See also Petit, Traite des tnose vessels, and gradually descends into the Mai. Chir. T. 2, p. 293, #c.) A gland can o d Of the thigh, between the sarturius, gracilis, only become enlarged by the gradual effects of and pectineus muscles. “ Many surgeons be- inflammation; the swelling of a crural hernia l*e\e (says Scarpa,) that the hernial sac, and the comes on in a momentary and sudden manner, intestines, which it contains, are ordinarily situ- and, when strangulated, occasions the train of •v.ed above the crural vessels and trunk of the symptoms already described in our account of vena saphena, and sometimes between these ves- the inguinal hernia, which symptoms an enlarged s«ls and the anterior superior spine of the ileum, gland could never occasion. Such circumstances ut, as far as my knowledge extends, this asser- seem to be sufficiently discriminative; though t'on is r.ot supported by a single accurate de- the feel of the two kinds of swelling, is often not scription of the crural hernia in the early stage, of itself enough to make the surgeon decided in