SCROPHULA. 9 Go undoubtedly very frequent in persons of fair skin, light eyes, &c. the term alike, at least in the sense of equally, may not be altogether cor- rect in the following inference, viz. “ that per- sons of every variety of complexion are alike subject to this disease, and that it is only neces- sary to place them in circumstances, favourable to its development, to have it fully formed.”— ( Lloyd on Scrophula, p. 7.) I believe the lact is now almost generally ad- mitted, that females are rather more subject, than males, to scrophulous disease. (See Alibert, Nosol. Natiirelle, p. 449.) According to Mr. White, struma prevails more extensively in temperate latitudes, than in very hot or very cold climates. It is also more frequent in some parts of Europe than others ; and in this country, it lias been found to be most general in the counties of Suffolk and Lanca- shire. At all periods, it seems to have been a very common complaint in this island. From history, we learn, that it was denominated the king’s evil in the time of Edward the Confessor, ■who is supposed to have been the first that at- tempted to cure it by the royal touch. From a register kept in the royal chapel, we find that Charles the Second touched 92,107 persons, in a certain number of years; and this equally bigoted and useless practice was not discontinued till a recent period, when kings were found to be, as well as their poorest subjects, totally de- stitute of all supernatural power. Scrophula is not communicable from one per- son to another; neither can it be conveyed into the system by inoculation. The opinion also, that scrophulous nurses may infect children, seems quite destitute of foundation. (See White, p. 56, 57.) Pinel and Alibert have purposely kept scro- phulous and healthy children together in the same ward, without any of the latter receiving the complaint. Hebreard could not communicate the disease to dogs by inoculation. And G. T. Kortum, whose valuable work contains every thing known about scrophula at the period when it was written, tried in vain to impart the dis- temper to a child, by rubbing its neck every day with the pus discharged from scrophulous ulcers. Lepelletier, desirous of ascertaining the correctness of such experiments, has of late re- peated them : he has made guinea pigs swallow scrophulous matter; and he has injected it into the veins, and applied it to wounds ; but, in no instance, was there even a temporary appearance of the disease being communicated. The same author also mixed scrophulous with vaccine mat- ter, and inoculated with it; yet, he never found the vaccine vesicle, thus produced, deviate in the least from its regular course. Lastly, Le- pelletier inoculated himself with pus, discharged from scrophulous sores, as well as with the serum, collected under the cuticle of a strumous patient after the application of a blister; but he has re- mained free from every scrophulous ailment. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 50, /?. 294.) Our countryman, Mr. Goodlad, inoculated him- self several times with the discharge from scro- phulous sores and abscesses, and the result was, that the disease could not be thus transmitted. The parts, which are most frequently affected by scrophula, next to the lymphatic glands, and perhaps the skin, are the spongy heads of the bones, and the joints. The form, which the dis- ease assumes in the latter parts, is particularly described in the article Joints. The disorder of the spine, attended with a paralytic affection of the lower extremities, is, no doubt, very frequently of scrophulous origin. (See Vertebra:.} The spina bifida is a congenital disease, which is found to occur most frequently in children, whose pa- rents are scrophulous. ( Thomson's Lecturesy p. 133.) The abscess, which forms in the cel- lular substance, between the peritoneum and psoas muscle, is often regarded as a strumous disease; and when the contents of the abscess are found to contain flakes of a curdy matter, somewhat resembling white-of-egg, a substance peculiar to scrophulous abscesses, no one can doubt, that the complaint is connected with this constitutional affection. (See Lumbar Abscess.) The chronic enlargement of the thyroid gland, is sometimes considered as scrophulous; but, though patients, with this affliction, very often have, at the same time, other complaints, which are unequivocally strumous, though the enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland most frequently com- mences at an early period of life, like scrophulous diseases, and, though, like them it is sometimes benefited by the carbonate of soda, the opinion, I think, is rather on the decline. (See Bronchocclc.) Scrophula also frequently makes its appearance in the form of imperfect suppurations, in various parts of the body ; the contents of such abscesses be- ing a curdy kind of matter, and the skin cover- ing them, having an unhealthy red appearance, and a thickened doughy feel. The mesenteric glands are often found universally diseased, and enlarged in scrophulous subjects; and, as all nu- triment has to pass through these parts, before it can arrive in the circulation, we cannot be sur- prised at the many ill effects which must be pro- duced on the system, when such glands are thus diseased. However, as I have already hinted, doubts are entertained by Hr. Henning, whether enlarged mesenteric glands arc decidedly scrophulous; but, if his sentiment be incorrect, I fear, he has been led to adopt it by his parti- cular theory, which limits the origin of scrophula to the superficial absorbent glands. Scrophula frequently makes its attack on the testicle. (See Testicle, Diseases of.) The female breast is also subject to scrophulous tumors, and abscesses. Dr. Thomson believes, that more or less local inflammation occurs in every form and stage of scrophulous diseases. He observes, that the swellings are very often from the first attended with a sensible increase of heat and redness, and that the pain, though seldom acute, is always present in a greater or less degree. Pressure on scrophulous swellings never fails to create pain ; and the temperature of the skin covering them, is usually two or three degrees higher, than that of the contiguous parts. (Lectures, <^c. p. 131.) Scrophulous inflammation (as Mr. John Burns observes,) is marked by a soft swelling of the affected part, which very frequently is one of the lymphatic glands. The covering, or coat of the gland, becomes slightly thickened, and its