58 AMPUTATION. steps of surgery to perfection are slow, and that they even sometimes deviate from the straight path, though upon all essential points no retro- gradation has ever taken place. Here nature has acted as the guide, and the surgeon s chief merit has consisted in obeying the hints which she her- self has thrown out. As already mentioned, the following natural occurrence, no doubt, was one of the circumstances, which first led to the bold practice of amputation ; in consequence of dis- ease, and grievous local injuries, whole limbs were sometimes seized with mortification. In the majority of cases, this was attended with so much constitutional disturbance, that the patients died; but, in other less numerous instances, the mortification was confined to the part; suppura- tion was established between the dead and living parts ; the whole of the mortified limb fell off; the suppurating surfaces healed up; and thus, by the powers of nature, the patients were restored to health. Here was clearly proved the possibi- lity of recovery, notwithstanding the loss of a limb. The surgeon, as Brurminghausen remarks, viewed with surprise this course of nature, and hardly ventured to promote it by the feeble means formerly employed, which, however, were not really needed. But, as the mortified parts, pre- viously to their detachment, caused great annoy- ance by their fetor, a surgical attempt was at length made to get rid of them ; in doing which, the knife was always kept from touching the liv- ing flesh, on account of a well grounded fear of bleeding, for the suppression of which no effec- tual methods were known. Such was the prac- tice that prevailed from Hippocrates down to Celsus. (ErfahrSCc- ilber die Amp. p. 14.) “ Partes autem corporis, quae infra terminos de- nigrationis fuerint, ubi jam prorsus emortuae fuerint et dolorem non senserint, ad articulos auferendae ea cautione ut ne vulnus inferatur,” <Sfe. (De Articulis, sect. 6.) Here we find, that the earliest mode of amputation was that done at the joints. A. C. Celsus, who lived in the reign of Tibe- rius, and whose book, de Re Medica, should be read by every surgeon, has left us a short de- scription of the mode of amputating gangrenous limbs. (Lib. 7. c. 33.) It has been often re- marked, that Celsus has left no instructions for securing the divided blood-vessels; but it has not been commonly noticed, that, in his chapter on wounds, he directs us to stop hemorrhage by taking hold of the vessels, then tying them in two places, and dividing the intermediate por- tion. If this measure cannot be adopted, he ad- vises the use of a cauterizing iron. Several hints are to be met with in the writings of Celsus, from which it may be inferred, that the ligature of bleeding vessels was sometimes practised at the early age in which he lived; and this suppo- sition is strengthened, by a fragment of Arehi- genes, preserved by Coechius, on the subject of amputation, where he speaks of tying, or sewing, the blood-vessels We are not, however, in pos- session of all the writings of medical authors, prior to the time of Galen, and must therefore reryain in doubt upon this point. (Rees’s Cyclo- pedia, Art. Ampututian.) This anonymous writer argues, therefore, with some appearance of reason, that if amputa- tion often proved fatal in the days of Celsus, “ ssepe in ipso opere,” as the expression is, it was owing to the want of some efficacious me- thod of compressing the blood-vessels, during the operation itself; for, whether the use of the liga- ture were known to the ancients or not, no doubt exists about their ignorance of the tourni- quet. But, admitting that the ancients were not al- together uninformed of the plan of tying arte- ries, it cannot be credited, that they adopted the practice to any extent; for, if they had, they would not have continued so partial to the cautery, boiling oils, and a farrago of astringent applications. They would also never have had recourse to the barbarous method of cutting the flesh with a red-hot knife, with the view of stop- ping the hemorrhage by converting the whole surface of the stump into an eschar. Painful in its execution, and horrid in its consequence, as this burning operation was, it seldom proved a lasting antidote to the bleeding, which generally came on in a fatal manner, as soon as the sloughs were loose On this part of the subject, rnyown ideas full}' agree with those of a distinguished foreign surgeon, who says, that although the docu- ment left us may prove that the ligature was known to the ancients, and employed in cases of aneu- risms and wounded blood-vessels, nay, that the arteries were secured with a needle and ligature ; yet, the practice could not have been extended to the operation of amputation, since with the custom of making the incisions in the dead parts, the method scarcely admitted of being put in exe- cution. (Brunningliuuscn, Erfahr. uber die, Am- put. p. 29.) Ambrose Pare, therefore, seems to me to deserve as much praise for the introduction of the ligature into common use, as if no allusion to this method whatsoever had existed in the writ- ings of Celsus and other ancients. The different parts of the operation, meriting particular attention, are, the choice of the part of the limb where the incisions are to begin; the measures for guarding against bleeding during the operation ; the division of the integu- ments, muscles, and bones, which is to be ac- complished in such a manner, that the whole sur- face of the stump will afterwards be covered with skin; tying the arteries, which should be done without including the nerves, or any other adja- cent part; placing the integuments in a proper position after the operation; and, finally, the subsequent treatment of the wound. At the period of making the incision, the an- cients contented themselves with having the skin forcibly drawn upumrd by an assistant; they next divided, with one sweep of the knife, the integu- ments and flesh down to the bone, and, after- wards, sawed the bone on a level with the soft parts, which were drawn upward. Celsus consi- dered it better to let the incision encroach upon the living flesh, than leave any of the diseased parts behind. “ Et potius ex saiia parte aliquid excii/alur, quam ex a-gra rclinquatur.” (He Mt- <iipina, Lib. 7, c. 33.) It appears, however, that his views extended further than those of most of his contemporaries, and even his followers, almost down to modern times. After cutting the muscles down to the bone, he says, that the Jicsh should be reflected, and de- tached underneath with a scalpel, in order to de- nude u portion if the bone, which is then to be