JOINTS. 73.9 Topical application's, consisting of strong doubt mere inflammations, and thickening of the astringents of the mineral and vegetable king- synovial membrane ; a disease, which in general doni, are of no service in examples of ulceration readily yields to several other plans, of the cartilages, or of the scrophulous form of The only method of treatment, which my own the disease, though they often suffice for the personal experience enables me to recommend cure of some mild descriptions of white-swelling, for scrophulous white-swellings in a chronic state, depending upon a thickening of the synovial consists in keeping up a discharge from the sur- membrane. A decoction of oak bark, contain- face of the diseased joints. The opportunities,, ing alum, was recommended by Mr. Russell. which I have had of observing the effects of blis- My own experience will not allow me to say ters, and caustic issues, rather incline me, how- anv thing in favour of electricity, as an application ever, to prefer the former to the latter. I have for the relief of white-swellings; and it must be seen great good derived from both; but more more likely to do harm than good, whenever the from blisters, than the other kind of issue. There indication is to lessen irritation. are instances, in which I should employ vesi- “ If the tumour is quite indolent, (says Ri- eating applications; there are others in which I cherand) the application of galvanism may be should prefer making an eschar with caustic. In proposed; it is not, however, exempt from particular individuals, blisters create so much ir- danger, and on one occasion, where I employed ritation, heat, fever, and suffering, that a perse- it, lancinating pains and swelling of’ the joint verance in them would be rashness, were brought on by it.” (iVosogi'. Chir. T. 3, The blister should always be large. Many p. 174, Ed. 2.) surgeons, instead of following Mr. Crowther’s Mr. John Hunter had confidence in cicuta plan, prefer blistering first one side of the joint, and sea-bathing, as possessing power over many and then the other alternately, for a considerable scrophulous diseases; and, that such diseases of length of time. “ Blisters (says Mr. Latta) the joints are often materially benefited by the may be put upon each side of the patella, and patient’s going to the sea-side and bathing, is a ought to be of such a size and shape, as to cover fact, which cannot be doubted, whatever may be the whole of the swelling, on the inside, from the the mode of explaining the benefit thus ob- . hinder part of the joint, at the edge of the hollow tained. I fuliy believe, that sea-air, and sea- of the thigh, to the edge of the patella, over the bathing, have a beneficial influence over scro- whole extent of the swelling above and below, phulous diseases of the joints; but probably their As soon as the blister is taken off from one side, effects are produced on the part through the it ought to be applied to the other, and thus re- medium of the constitution, and they should peated alternately, until both swelling and pain only be recommended as an auxiliary plan, to be be completely removed. When this is the case, adopted in conjunction witli other still more effi- the patient ought to be directed to rub the joint cacious measures. well with a liniment, composed of half ah ounce Every one is well acquainted with the efficacy of camphor, dissolved in two ounces of oil, with of friction in exciting the action of the absor- the addition of half an ounce of spir. sal-ammon. bents. To this principle we are to impute the caust. or, as it is now called, liquor ammonias, great benefit, which arises from what is termed This is to be used three times a day; and in this dry rubbing, in cases of white-swellings. This way, (continues Mr. Latta) I have successfully kind of friction is performed by the mere hands treated many cases of white-swellings.” (Syst. of an attendant, without using at the same time cf Surgery, Vol. I, chap. 6.) any kind of liniment, or other application what- In the beginning, caustic issues are even more soever, excepting sometimes a little Hour, or painful, than blisters; but the)' afterwards be- powdered starch, and the rubbing is continued come more like indolent sores, and are more several hours every day. At Oxford, many poor easily kept open, for a length of time, than blis- persons earn their livelihood by devoting them- ters. Such issues are commonly made on each I selves to this species of labour, for which they side of the diseased joint, and of about the size arc paid a stipulated sum per hour. This prac- of a half-crown. The manner of making the tice, however, is chiefly advantageous in the eschars, and keeping these issues open, has been chronic stage of white-swelling, arising from in- already explained. (See Issue.) flammation of the synovial membrane. The' question has been contested, among sur- al I look upon all mere emollient applications, gical writers and practitioners, whether blisters such as fomentations and poultices, as quite de- and issues produce benefit, upon the principle of stitute of real efficacy, except when great pain, or counter-irritation, or in consequence of the dis- active inflammation is present, and, though they charge, which they occasion. They probably serve to amuse the patient, they ought not to he operate efficaciously in both ways; for there is recommended. That surgeon, who merely strives no doubt, that mere rubefacients possess the to please his patient’s fancy, without doing any power of rousing the action of the absorbents, real good to him, in regard to his affliction, may and they may also modify the vascular action in lie considered as doing harm, because the sem- diseased parts. These applications can obviously blance of something being done too otjon bin- only act upon the principle of counter-irritation, ders other really useful steps from beingpursued. and they have not been here recommended par- The French surgeons are particularly liberal in ticularly for white-swellings, because, it seems the praises, which they bestow on warm emol- to me, that whenever some good might be de- lient remedies, poultices, steam of hot water, rived from their employment, much more benefit fomentations, &e. and they adduce instances might always be obtained from blisters and issues, of white-swellings being cured in this manner. This sentiment is confirmed by experience, and But, the cases, to which they refer, were no wc must, therefore, impute a great degree of ef- .'5 B 2