413 EMPHYSEMA. mS • flfilttffr »1 4 which was only now and then, he complained of a pain in his head. On passing a bandage round his chest, with a proper compress to prevent the discharge of air into the cellular membrane, and to confine the motion of the thorax, the patient cried out, that he could not suffer it. A strong compression by the band alone affected him in the same way. Notwithstanding bleeding, re- peated scarifications, and other means, bis sense of suffocation, and difficulty of breathing in- creased. On the fourth day, the air no longer passed into the cellular membrane, when on a sudden inclining his head backward, as it were, for the admission of more air than usual, his breathing became more difficult and interrupted, he turned wholly insensible, and soon afterwards died. Littre, Mery, and Cheston, opened their pa- tients after death. Besides a wound of the lungs and fractured rib, Littre found a considerable quantity of blood in the cavity of the thorax, and was sensible of some fetid air escaping, on his first puncturing the intercostals and pleura. The wounded lobe was hard and black, and the other two of the same side were inflamed. In Mery’s patient, no blood was extravasated, nor was there anything preternatural, except the fractured ribs, the wound of the pleura, and that of the lungs. Cheston found a fracture of the tenth and eleventh ribs, and a wound of the lungs. The lungs below the wound were livid, and more compact than usual; but every thing else was natural, no extravasation, no inflammation, no internal emphysema. Hewson made several experiments on animals, tending to prove, that air in their chests pro- duced great difficulty in breathing, such as oc- curs in cases of emphysema; and, in one case, which he examined after death, air was actually discharged on puncturing the thorax. The object of Mr. Hewson’s paper is to re- commend making an opening in the chest, for the purpose of giving vent to the air confined in that cavity, just as is done for the discharge of pus, in cases of empyema, or of water, in those of hydrops pectoris. In wounds of the lungs, says this author, whether occasioned by fractured ribs, or other causes, when symptoms of tightness and suffoca- tion come on, so far should we be from dreading the emphysematous swelling of the cellular mem- brane, that we should rather consider it as a fa- vourable symptom, showing that the air is not likely to be confined in the thorax; and so far * should we be from compressing the wound to prevent the inflation, or emphysema, that we should rather dilate it (if not large enough already), or perform the paracentesis thoracis. We may judge of the necessity of this operation from the violence of the symptoms, such as the oppressed breathing, &c. For when these are : not considerable, and the air passes out of the chest with sufficient freedom, the operation is then unnecessary. If the disease is on the right side, the best place for performing the operation, says Mr. Hewson, will be on the fore-part of the chest, between the fifth and sixth ribs; for, there the integuments arc thin, and, in the case of air, no depending drain is required. But, if the disease is on the left side, it will be more advisable to make the opening between the seventh and eighth, or eighth and ninth ribs, in order that we may be sure of avoiding the pericardium. As large penetrating wounds are inconvenient on account of the air entering by the aperture in such a quantity, us to prevent the e.i/ a>,siun of the lungs, a small wound will be eligible, espe- cially as air does not require a large one for its escape. Mr. Hewson recommends dissecting cautiously with a knife, in preference to the coarse and hazardous method of thrusting in a trocar. There is one error prevailing in Mr. Hew- son’s paper, for which he has been justly criti- cised by Mr. John Bell; viz. the idea that it is possible and proper to make the collapsed lung expand by making an opening in the chest. Bromfield and B. Bell have both imbibed the same erroneous opinions, and proposed plans for exhausting the air and expanding the lung. It is very certain that it is impracticable to make the collapsed viscus expand, until the breach in it is closed, and this closure is greatly promoted by the quiet state, in which the collapsed lung remains; a state, also, the most favourable for the stoppage of any bleeding from the pulmonary vessels. The true object then of making an opening into the thorax, when the symptoms of suffoca- tion are violent, is not to obtain an expansion of the lung on the affected side, nor to take the pressure of the air from it; but, to remove the pressure caused on the opposite lung by the distention of the mediastinum, and, at the same time, to diminish the pressure of the air on the diaphragm. The lung on the affected side must continue collapsed, and it is most advantageous, that it should do so. The opposite lung is that, which for a time must of itself carry on respira- tion, and it is known to be fully adequate to this function, provided the quantity of air, on the other side of the chest, does not produce too much pressure on the mediastinum, and dia- phragm. Mr. John Bell concludes bis remarks on this subject, with advising the following practice : — 1st When the crackling tumor begins to form over a fractured rib, small punqtures should be made with the point of a lancet,' as in bleed- ing ; and if the point be struck deep enough, the air will rush out audibly. But, as (supposing the lung is not adherent to the inside of the chest) this air was in the thorax, before it came into the cellular substance, it is plain, that the thorax is still full, and that the lung of that side is already collapsed and useless, and must con- tinue so. The purpose, therefore, of making these scarifications, and, especially, of making them so near the fractured part, is not to relieve the lungs, hut merely to prevent the air spread- ing more widely beneath the skin. I2nd. If the air should have spread to very remote parts of the body, as to the scrotum, and down the thighs, it will he easier to make small punctures in those parts, to let out the air di- rectly, than to press it along the whole body, till it is brought up to the punctures made on the chest, over the wounded part. 3rd. If, notwithstanding free punctures, and