717 IRI I NT the supposed nature of the case might require, d this effect they certainly would have, not- thstanding vomiting is an early and constant mptom of the disease, and an insuperable con- I ipmion an equally invariable attendant. The [ ethod, I allow, however, is not very hopeful, id may sometimes be frustrated by the lorma- on of adhesions. According to Mr. Langstaff, e Recherches Historiques sur la Gastrotomic ■ns If ens de Volvulus,par M. Heroin, (Alan. • /'Acad, de Chirurgie, Tom. 4, 4to.) contain iany interesting tacts and sound reasoning, ’here we find a very ample discussion of the aestion, concerning the propriety of opening ie abdomen, in order to disentangle the in- osuscepled intestine; a proposal which M. levin very properly condemns. If the equivocal and uncertain nature of the ymptoms of volvulus were not sufficient to de- er us from undertaking an operation, which, un- er the most favourable circumstances, could not ail to be extremely difficult, and imminently ha- zardous to the patient, the state of the invagi- . sated parts would entirely banish all thoughts of uch an imprudent attempt; for the different folds if the intestine often become agglutinated to each vther, so that they can hardly be withdrawn after leath; (Simpson, Edinlvrgh Med. Essays, Vol. 6, Hevin's 4th Obs. Malcolm, Physical ind Lit. Essays, Vol. 2, p. 360. Hunter, Med. i| rndChir. Trans, and Soemmering in Transl. of ill Baillic’s Morh. Anat.) Nay, the stricture on the ntrosuscepted part may cause it to inflame, and even mortify. (Soemmering.) It is very clear, that, in this state of parts, the operation of gas- trotomy would be totally inadmissible, even if the symptoms could clearly indicate the nature of the case, and the affected part could be easily reached and examined. (Langstuff.) The forcible injection of clysters was found useless by Dr. Monro, and the agglutination of the parts must produce an insuperable obstacle to the bowels being pushed back by this means. (Langstaff.) Some have proposed the employ- ment of a long bougie, or a piece of whalebone, to push back the intestine; and this proposal may be adopted, when we are furnished with an in- strument, adapted to follow the windings of the large intestine to its origin in the right ilium, without any risk of perforating the gut in its course. (Langstaff.) It must be confessed, that both surgery and medicine are almost totally unavailing in the present disease. Yet, here, as in many other instances, the resources of nature are exhibited in a most wonderful and astonishing manner, while those of art completely fail. The invagi- nated portion of intestine sometimes sloughs, and is discharged per anum, while the agglutina- tion of the parts preserves the continuity of the intestinal canal. The annals of medicine furnish numerous instances, in which long pieces of gut have been discharged in this manner, and the patient has recovered. Hence, some hope may be allowed under the most unpromising circum- stances. In a case, related in Duncan’s Com- mentaries, eighteen inches of small intestine were voided per anum, Vol. 9, p. 278. Three simi- lar instances occur in M. Hevin’s Memoir; twenty-three inches of colon came away in one of these, and twenty-eight of small intestines in another. Other cases occur in the Physical and Literary Essays, Vol. 2, p. 361 ; in Duncan’s Annals, Vol. 6, p. 298; in the Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. 2; where Dr. Baillie states, that a yard of intestine was voided. The patients did not, however, ultimately survive in eveiy one of these instances. (Langstaff, in Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal.) Langenbeck has recorded an instance, in which a prolapsus of the large intestines protruded half an ell out of the anus. The disease had lasted thirty weeks. Langenbeck made an incision into, or rather through, the protruded inverted bowel, immediately below the sphincter ani. He first divided the inner vascular coat, then the muscular, and lastly the outer coat with great caution. He now discovered, within the pro- truded inverted bowel, which he had opened, another part of the intestinal canal, which was not yet inverted. He remarked upon it the appen- dices epiploicae, and the white shining peritonaeal coat. This last portion would also have become inverted, had the disease continued. He next reduced the latter uninverted part, and after- wards succeeded in replacing the rest of the pro- trusion ; which did not fall down again when the boy had stools. No bad symptoms immediately followed; but, the lad being very weak survived only eight days. (See Bibl.fur die Chir. B. 3, p. 756, Gott. 1811.) Hevin in Mem. de VAcad, de Chir. Hun- ter’s Observations, in the; Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirur- gical Knowledge, Vol. \, p. 103, et seq. L'Encyclopedic Mcthodique, Partie Chir. Art. Gustrotomie. A. Voter, He Invaginationc In- testinorum: (Haller Disp. Anat. 1, 481.) C. II. Velse, De Muiuo Intestinornmlngrcssu, $-c. Lugd. 1742. (Haller, Disp. Anat. 7. 97.) J. C. Lettsom, The History of an Extraor- dinary Intussusception, with an account of the dissection by Mr. T. Whatcly, 4to. Land. 1786. And Langtaff's Remarks in the Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal, No. XI. INVERSION OF THE UTERUS. See Uterus, Inversion of. IRIS, PROLAPSUS OF. As long as the humors, which fill the cavity of the eye, and in which the iris is immersed and suspended, re- main in perfect equilibrium with respect to each other, that membrane retains its natural position, and a suitable distance from the cornea, and al- though of a very delicate and yielding texture, it contracts, and relaxes itself, without ever form- ing any irregular fold. But, when the aqueous humor has escaped through an accidental, or ar- tificial, opening in the cornea, the iris is pressed forward by the humors situated behind it, and is urged gradually towards the cornea, until a por- tion of it protrudes from the eye, at the same opening, through which the aqueous humor made its escape. Thus a small tumor of the same colour as the iris forms on the cornea, sometimes named, staphyloma of the iris; some- times, procidentia, or prolapsus, of the iris. The causes of this complaint are such wounds and ulcers of the cornea, as make an opening of a certain extent into the anterior chamber of the aqueous humor, and such violent contusions of the eye-ball, as occasion a rupture of the cornea. If the edges of a wound in this situation, whether