o employed with moderation; but, it it imme- blood at the commencement of the case, and of OPHTHALMY. y 1 ■■■■■V Til ■ rSt stage like a case of pure internal ophthalmy, he practice being somewhat modified, however, ccording to the direction and degree, in which he inflammation has spread, when the surgeon . fjrst consulted. "When the inflammation con- imies a good while limited, or spreads but very •radually to the outer texture of the eyeball, eneral and local antiphlogistic remedies are to iaielv extend itself to the innermost parts of he eye, or both inwards and outwards toge- her, and threatens to end in an universal in- 'lamination of the eyeball, antiphlogistic treat- nent must be most rigorously adopted. ( Beer.) Phis author then notices the unfortunate state of he case, when, towards the end of the first stage, lie eyesight happens to be entirely destroyed, he iris is close to the cornea, and there is dan- ger of a staphyloma. In this desperate state of .hings, his apprehensions of this last disease, ead° him to suggest a plan, (the propriety of which I -regard with much suspicion,) which is nothing less, than actually trying to increase the inflammation, by stimulating the eye several times a day with laudanum, sulphuric aether, &c. with the view of doing what? Why, of obli- terating the sources of the aqueous humour! the continuance of the secretion of which is set down as one of the essentials to the production of staphyloma. (B. 1, p. 447.) The treatment of idiopathic Iritis in its second stage, as recommended by Beer, is on the whole, both generally and locally, like what has been advised for the same stage of pure internal ophthalmy ; but, here, he says, it is necessary to pay particular attention to the direction, in which the inflammation extends itself in the first stage, so that the treatment may be regulated with greater precision. Beer also advises great at- tention to be paid to the effusion of lymph in the posterior chamber; as towards the end of the second stage, much may be done which would afterwards be too late. Thus, when the surgeon perceives towards the end of the second stage, that the layer of lymph in the posterior cham- ber does not completely prevent, though it seri- ously diminishes vision, and that it is likely to remain in the same state, after the termination of the second stage, Beer recommends topical opium is blended, once a day into the eyebrofv, will greatly promote the removal of the lymph efliised in the posterior chamber. (B. 1, jj.450.) Excellent as Beer’s description of idiopathic iritis certainly is, there are some imperfections in his method of treatment. 1st, It does not appear to me, that he insists sufficiently upon the necessity of taking away a very large quantity of repeating the general and topical bleeding, until the circulation is duly lowered, and the violence of the inflammation checked. 2dly, Though his recommendation of rigorous antiphlogistic treat- ment implies the approbation both of bleeding and cathartics, he says nothing of the use of moderate doses of tartarized antimony, in weak- ening the pulse; a practice, highly praised by the late Mr. Saunders. (On some Practical Points relating to Diseases of the Eye, p. 26, 8vo. Loud. 1811.) 3dly, If mercury has the power of arresting acute inflammation of the iris, “both prior to, and after, the effusion of adhesive mat- ter,” and of rapidly removing, “by an excite- ment of the absorbing system, peculiar to itself, the newly effused matter, (Travers, Synopsis, <S[C. p. 291,) then Beer must delay too long the employment of this powerful medicine, since he does not commence its use until the close of the second stage, when he has found, that the ab- sorption of the effused lymph cannot be effected by other means. 4thly, Beer entirely overlooks the important utility of belladonna and hyoseia- mus in producing a dilatation of the pupil, where- by adhesions of the iris to the capsule of the lens, or to the cornea itself, may frequently be prevented, or their ill effects considerably less- ened. Belladonna, (says Mr. Saunders,) “if properly applied to the eye, during the adhesive process of inflammation, will cause the inner roargin of the iris to expand, and recede from the axis of the pupil, and will thus overcome the restraint, arising from the agglutination of lymph, by elongating the organized bands, which connect the iris and capsule, if they have not been oflong duration. Thus, the adhesions are drawn out to a degree of tenuity, and conse- quently transparency, and a considerable quan- tity of light is admitted. If the effect of the inflammation has been slight, the adhesions will applications to the eye, and if these prove un- be trivial, and the pupil only slightly irregular, availing, internal alterative medicines, and even The iris will retain a certain power of action, mercury, which, he says, when the treatment is judiciously conducted, ought not to be omitted. Here, also, he observes, another deviation must he made from the usual practice in the second stage of ophthalmy : calomel joined with opium, is to be exhibited with calamus uromaticus, bark, &c. Externally, Beer speaks highly of the benefit of a collyrium, containing the oxymuri- ate of mercury, without any mucilage, but with a considerable addition of the vinous tincture of opium. When these remedies cease to be effica- cious, or the eye cannot bear fluid applications, as is sometimes the case* Beer recommends a bit of the following salve to be smeared once a day, between the edges of the eyelids, and al- lowed slowly to melt there, and become diffused over tho eye: Butyri reccntis insulsi Jiff lfydrargyri nitrico-oxydi rubri gr. vj. Extract °P'i Kr< viij. M. Beer also states that rubbing a liltle mercurial ointment, with which some and vision will be very little injured. In gene- ral, the pupil is misshapen, and the iris per- fectly fixed; but, if the aperture be of sufficient size, and the capsule not rendered too opaque, the patient will enjoy a very useful degree of sight.” (Saunders, p. 32.) Respecting bel- ladonna, it is observed by Langenbeck, that, as all applications directly to the inflamed eye itself are frequently hurtful, and render it still more painful and irritable, it is a good plan to let the extract of belladonna be smeared upon the eyebrow, instead of putting a solution of it immediately in contact with the conjunctiva.— (Ncuc Bill. B. 2, p. 236.) The same author expresses his attachment to Beer's method of fubbing mercurial ointment with opium into the eyebrows; and, after dwelling, with due force, on the necessity of copious and repeated bleed- ings, leeches, evacuations, &e. he cautions prac- titioners not to be led into the supposition, that