61)2 HYPOPIUM. circumstances (Mem. cl Ohs. star l'Gill, p. -105), but it is now known, that every topical emollient application, provided it be conjoined with such internal antiphlogistic treatment, ns is the most proper lor repelling the acute stage of the severe ophthalmv, produces quite as good an effect as this infusion. Simple warm water produces the same benefit. “ A young girl (says Nannoni) was struck in the eye by an ear of corn. An inflammation was the consequence, which pro- duced a white pus of a semi-lunar shape, appa- rently behind the cornea, without a possibility of judging whether the matter was actually situated between the laminae of that membrane, or in the anterior chamber. Hence, 1 was asked, whether it might not be evacuated by an incision, particularly as the patient complained of great pain in the eye, and eye-brow. She was in the hospital; and in the presence of Dr. Lulli, and several students in surgery, I said that the pain of which the patient complained, was not occa- sioned by the pus itself, but the cause which produced it. This cause was inflammation, which probably would be increased by making a larger opening for the external air, than what it has to the internal parts, while the external ones remain entire. By fomenting the eye and fore- head with warm water, the inflammation sub- sided, and the pus disappeared. We have so often witnessed the fact subsequently, that we can also extol the simplicity of the treat- ment.” Such, in short, is the successful ter- mination of an hypopium, whenever the disease is properly treated at its commencement, and the acute stage of severe ophthalmv is promptly checked by internal antiphlogistic means, and emollient applications. But, in consequence of the inflammatory period of the severe oph- thalmy having resisted, in an uncommon man- ner, the best means, or because such means have been employed too late, it sometimes happens, that the coagulating lymph, collected in the an- terior chamber, is so abundant, even after the acute stage of ophthalmy, that it continues for a long time to cloud the eye, and intercept vision. Scarpa has often seen patients, especially pau- pers, who, from indolence, negligence, or ill treatment, remained a long time after the cessa- tion of the inflammatory stage of ophthalmy, with the anterior chamber almost entirely filled with the glutinous matter of hypopium. When the inflammation had ceased, these unhappy persons wandered about the streets almost quite indifferent, and without complaining of pain, or any other inconvenience, than the diffi- culty of seeing with the eye affected. In this second stage of the ophthalmy, the resolution of hypopium obviously cannot be accomplished by the same irteans, nor with equal celerity, as in the first. At this crisis, the great quantity, and density of the glutinous matter extravasated, and the atony of the vascular system of the eye, make it necessary to give nature sufficient time to dissipate the thick, tenacious matter, and, at length, to dispose it to be insensibly absorbed with the aqueous humour jvhich is continually undergoing a renovation. Hence it is right, (says Scarpa) to adopt those means, which are best calculated to invigorate the vascular system of the eye, more especially the lymphatics. This requires more or less time, according as the patient is advanced in years, of a relaxed fibre and weak; or a young man of good constitution. However, according to Scarpa, in the second stage of violent acute ophthalmy, complicated with hypopium, the surgeon should limit liis ef- forts to the removal of every thing, which may irritate the eye, or be likely to renew the inflam- mation ; and he should only employ such means, as are conducive to the resolution of the second inflammatory stage, depending on relaxation of the conjunctiva and its vessels, and such reme- dies as tend, at the same time, to invigorate the action of the absorbents. Therefore, in this slate, he ought first to examine carefully the de- gree of irritability in the eye affected with the hypopium, by introducing, between the evebnd eyelids, a few drops of vitriolic eollyrium, con- taining the mucilage of quince seeds. Should the eye seem too strongly stimulated by this ap- plication, it must not be used, and little bags of warm mallows with a few grains of camphor are to be substituted for it. In the intervals, the vapours of the liquor ammon. comp, may be ap- plied and recourse had again to a blister on the nape of the neck. When the extreme sensibi- lity of the eye is overcome, the zinc eollyrium must be used attain, afterwards strengthened with a few drops of camphorated spirit. Under such treatment, proceeds Scarpa, the surgeon may ob- serve, that, in proportion as the chronic ophtbal- my disappears, and'the action of the absorbents is re-excited, the tenacious matter of the hypo- pium divides first into several small masses; then dissolves still further; and, afterwards, de- creases in quantity : descending towards the in- ferior segment of the cornea; and, finally, va- nishing altogether. But Scarpa accurately ob- serves, that the surgeon cannot always expect to be equally successful, whether the disease occur during the first, or second stage of violent acute ophthalmy, if the tenacious lymph, suddenly ex- travasated in the interior of the eye, prevail in such quantity, as not only to fill, but strongly distend, the two chambers of the aqueous humour, and the cornea in particular. In this state, not- withstanding the most skilful treatment, the un- pleasant complication is often followed b\ another' | inconvenience, still worse than the hypopium itself; viz. ideeratien, opacity, and bursting oi the cornea. The ulceration of the cornea ordinarily takes; place with such celerity, that the surgeon seldom has time to prevent it. As soon as an apertur has formed, the excessive abundance of coagulat- ing lymph, contained in the eve, (sometimes named empyema oculi) 'begins to escape througi it, and a degree of relief is experienced. But, this melioration is not of long continuance; for, scarcely is the glutinous fluid evacuated, that di tended the whole eye, and especially the cornea when it is followed by a portion of the iris, which glides through the ulcerated aperture, protrud externally, and constitutes the disease termed, prolapsus of the iris. (See Iris, Prolapsus o, But, if in such an emergency, the cornea already ulcerated, opaque, and greatly deranged in it organization, should not immediately burst, th surgeon is then constrained by the violence the symptoms, depending on the prodigious di tention of the eye-ball, to make an opening ir this membrane, in order to relieve the imme;