908 HERNIA. thing is going on, another should bo preparing. So when the preceding measures have been tried in vain, the application of a bladder filled with ice, or the solution of nitre and muriate of am- monia, and the injection of tobacco, in the form ot smoke, or decoction, should never be delayed for want of due previous preparation of all the requisites. Both these measures should be prac- tised at the same time, immediately after the failure of the taxis, bleeding and the warm batii. Mr. A. Cooper computes, that four hours are enough for the trial of the tobacco glyster, toge- ther with cold applications. In omental hernias, the necessity for operating may frequently be obviated, by the good effects of bleeding, purgative medicines, and glysters, and leeches applied to the tumor. Mr. Law- rence has justly- observed, that “when, as it very frequently happens, the aid of the surgeon is not required, until the complaint has lasted for some time, a trial of the tobacco, together with the to- pical use of cold, should be immediately resorted to, as circumstances will not admit of delay in the previous use of less powerful remedies.” (P. 1+8, Edit. 3.) Every man who has seen much of herniae, will immediately recognize the propriety of the following sentiments of the experienced Mr. Hey: “ I can scarcely press in too strong terms the necessity of an early recourse to the operation, as the most effectual method of preserving life in this dangerous disease. If Mr. Pott’s opinion be true, that the operation, when performed in a proper manner, and in due time, does not prove the cause of death oftener than perhaps once in fifty times; it would undoubtedly preserve the lives of many, to perform it almost as soon as the disease commenced, without increasing the danger by spending much time in the use of means, which cannot be depended upon for a cure. “ I have twice seen this disease prove fatal in .about twenty-four hours. In such cases, it is evident, there is little time for delay. A surgeon, who is competent to perform the operation, is not perhaps consulted till the intestine is on the’ point of being mortified, or is actually in a state of mortification. The dilemma, into which he is then cast, is painful indeed. But, when the fullest opportunity is afforded him of using the best mode of treatment, I am satisfied, that his success will be the greatest when the operation is not long delayed. This, at least, has been my own experience. When I first entered upon the profession of surgery in the year 1759, the operation for the strangulated hernia had not been performed by any of the surgeons in Leeds. My seniors in the profession were very kind in affording me their assistance, or calling me into consultation when such cases occurred; but we considered the operation as the last resource, and as improper until the danger appeared imminent. By this dilatory mode of practice, I lost three patients in five, upon whom the operation was performed. Having more experience of the urgency of the disease, I made it my custom, when called to a patient who had laboured two or three days under the disease, to wait only about two hours, that I might try the effect of bleeding (if this evacuation was not forbidden by some peculiar circumstances of the case) and the tobacco glyster. In this mode of practice, I lost about two patients in nine, upon whom I operated. This comparison is drawn from cases nearly similar, leaving out of the account those cases in which a gangrene of the intestine had taken place. “ I have now. at the time of writing this, per- formed the operation thirty-five times; and have often had occasion to lament, that I had performed it too late, but never, that I had per- formed it too soon. There are some cases so urgent, that it is not advisable to lose any time in the trial of means to produce a reduction. The delay of a few hours may cut off’all hope of success, when a speedy operation might have saved the life of the patient.” (/•*. 141, dfc.) io determine the exact moment, when to give up the trial of the preceding measures, and to have immediate recourse to the operation, is cer- tainly difficult; but, no one can doubt, that it is generally better to operate too early, than too late. All directions must be general ones, liable to many exceptions: in rapid cases little or no time should be allotted to the trial of any plan, and the operation should be done, without the least delay. In other instances, we have full time to try the effects of every thing at all likely to suc- ceed. The symptoms, which ought to guide us; in having recourse to the operation, arise from an attack of inflammation in that part of the intestine contained in the hernial sac, and from its spreading into the abdominal cavity. It is in proportion to their violence, that we ought to urge the performance of the operation. Mr. A. Cooper considers pain on pressing the belly, and tension, as the symptoms, which point out its immediate necessity. He adds, “ Indeed, there is scarcely any period of the symptoms, which should forbid the operation ; for, even if mor- tification has actually begun, the operation may be the means of saving life, by promoting the ready separation of gangrenous parts.” (On Inguinal and Congenital Hernia, p. 27.) Whenever the surgeon has succeeded in re- ducing the parts, without having recourse to the knife, if the symptoms of pain, inflammation, &c. ran high before such reduction, they will not always cease immediately afterwards. As they probably depend on the reduced bowel having been inflamed bv the stricture, the body should be kept open, and the diet and regimen should be low and sparing, whilst the least degree of pain and tension remain; in short, till all complaint is absolutely removed from the abdomen, and the intestines do their office freely, and without trouble. (Pott.) TROCRESS OF THE SYMPTOMS OF A STRANGU- LATED HERNIA. The earliest symptoms have been already related, viz. “ tumor in the groin, or scrotum, attended with pain, not only in the part, but all over the belly, and creating a sickness and in- clination to vomit, suppression of stools, and some degree of fever. These are the first sym- ptoms, and, if they are not appeased by the re- turn of the intestine, that is, if the attempts, made for this purpose, do not succeed ; the sick-