HEAD. 571 by an incision, such practice should never be adopted. The surgeon ought only to be officious in this wav, when he can accomplish by it some better olject, than the mere gratilication of his own curiosity. And as we shall find from the perusal of this article, and the one intitled, Tre- phine, that in these cases, the removal of pressure off the surface of the brain is the only possible reason for ever perforating the cranium with this instrument; and as dividing the scalp is only a useful measure, when it is preparatory to such operation ; neither the one, nor the other, should ever be practised, unless there exist unequivpcal symptoms, that there is a dangerous degree ol pressure operating on the brain, and caused either by matter, extravasated blood, or a depressed por- tion of the skull. If any exceptions can be made to this observation, they are cases, in which it is advisable to remove loose splinters and fragments of bone, or balls plainly felt under the scalp. The true mode of preventing the bad effects, frequently' following, but not arising from simple fractures of the skull, is not to trephine, but, to put in practice all kinds of antiphlogistic means. For this purpose, let the patient be repeatedly and copiously bled, both from the arm and tem- poral arteries; let him be properly purged ; give him antimonials; keep him on the lowest diet; let him remain in the most quiet situation pos- sible ; and if, notwithstanding such steps, the symptoms of inflammation of the brain continue to increase, let a large blister be applied to the scalp. These are the cases, also, in which the topical application of cold water to the shaved and naked head, by means of cloths kept con- stantly wet. is an eligible, though in this country a much neglected, practice. Numerous instances, however, in favour of the method are recorded by theexperienced Schmucker, (see his Chirurgische Wahmehmungen, B. 1, Berlin, 1774.) and the trials, which I have seen made of it, give me a high opinion of its superior efficacy. When, in spite of all these measures, matter forms under the cranium, attended with symptoms of pressure, a puffy- tumor of the injured part of the scalp, or those changes of the wound, if there is one, which Mr. Pott has so excellently described, and we have already related; not a moment should be lost in delaying to perforate the bone with the trephine, and giving vent to the matter beneath. 4. Fractures of the Cranium with Depression. In simple fractures of the skull, or those in which the parts of the broken bone are not de- pressed from their situation, Mr. Pott remarks, that “ The chirurgical intention, and requisite treatment, are the same in each, viz. to procure a discharge for any fluid which may be extrava- sated in present, (provided the pressure of such extravasation produces urgent symptoms, a con- dition, which should here be added) and to guard against the formation, or confinement of matter.” The prevention of suppuration will, as we have already remarked, be best accomplished, not by perforating the cranium, as Mr Pott advised, but by copious bleeding, evacuations, cold washes to the head, blisters, and a rigorous antiphlogistic re- gimen. However, the confinement of matter, pro- ducing symptoms of pressure on the brain, cer- tainly indicates the immediate use of the trephine. " But, says this author, in fractures, attended with depression, there are other intentions. In these the depressed parts are to be elevated, and such as are so separated as to be incapable of re- union, or of being brought to lie properly, and without pressing on the brain, are to be to- tally removed. These circumstances are peculiar to a depressed fracture; but, although they are peculiar, they must not be considered as sole, but, as additional to those, which have been men- tioned at large under the head of simple fracture: commotion, extravasation, inflammation, suppura- tion, and every ill, which can attend on, or be found in the latter, are to be met with in the former, and will require the same method of treatment.” That loose splintered pieces of the cranium, when quite detached, and already in view, in consequence of the scalp being wounded, ought to be taken away, no one will be inclined to question. That they ought also to be exposed by an incision, even when the scalp is unwounded, and then taken away, whenever they cause sym- ptoms of irritation, or pressure, I believe, will be universally allowed. But, the reader will already understand, from what has been said, in the pre- ceding section, that several excellent surgeons do not coincide with Pott, in believing, that every depressed fracture of the skull necessarily demands the application of the trephine. “ There certainly are (says Mr. Abernethy) degrees of this injury, which it would be highly imprudent to treat in this manner. Whenever the patient retains his senses perfectly, I should think it improper to trephine him, unless sym- ptoms arose that indicated the necessity of it.” <P. 21.) It is extraordinary and unaccountable, but, it is not less true, that no calculation of the bad effects can be made by the degree, in which a part of the skull is depressed. This is a fact, which has been long known. It has also been particularly adverted to by an eminent modern writer. “ Various instances also presented them- selves, in which, though a considerable degree of compression must have been occasioned, some- times by the depression of both tables, and at other times by the depression of the inner table only of the skull, yet neither stupor, paralysis, nor loss of memory were produced. In one of' these cases, the middle of the right parietal bone was fractured, and considerably depressed by a ball, which was extracted on the twentieth day. Jn this case, neither stupor, nor paralysis ap- peared. In -another, a muskct-ball had struck the right parietal bone, fractured it, and was flattened and lodged between the tables of the skull. The inner table was much depressed, yet no bad symptoms supervened. ” (See Thomson's Observations made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 59, 60.) The same author also saw a singular case, in which a ball, entering be- hind the right temple, and passing backwards and downwards, had fractured the bones in its passage, and lodged in the surface of the brain, over the tentorium, from which place it was ex- tracted on the seventeenth day, after the injury. No bad symptom had manifested itself previously to the operation, and the man recovered under the strictest antiphlogistic regimen, with little or no constitutional derangement. Dr. Henncn has recorded two cases, fully proving the correctness of Mr. Abernothy’s opinions, about the impropriety