sn $so sri communicated to the surgeon’s fingers as leads him to suspect that a fungus, or some other hardish extraneous substance, is contained in the bladder. In such cases, patients have actually been cut for the stone, when no foreign body whatever was present. (See Sabatier, Medecinc Operatoirc, Tom. 3, p. 1127—128, Edit. 2. See Lithotomy.) SL’E'CULUM. An instrument Intended for facilitating the examination of parts, and also the performance of operations on them : thus we have specula ani, specula oculi, auris, &c. SPHA'CELUS. (from ajmgjj, to destroy.) Surgeons imply, by this word, complete mor- tification, which is mostly preceded by a stage of the disorder, termed gangrene. See Morti- fication. SPICA, (from an ear of corn.) A name, given to a kind of bandage, in conse- quence of its turns being thought to resemble the rows of an ear of corn. In order to apply the spica bandage to the shoulder, the margins of the axillae must first be protected from the effects of the pressure, by means of soft compresses, and the end of a common roll- er is then to be placed under the opposite arm-pit. After conveying the bandage backward, obliquely over the scapulae, the surgeon is to bring it for- ward over the injured shoulder. The roller is next to descend under the arm-pit, then be car- ried upward again, and made to cross on the deltoid muscle. It is now to be carried obliquely over the front of the chest, and under the oppo- site arm-pit, where the end of it is to be pinned, or stitched. The bandage is next to pass across the back, over the part of the roller previously applied in this situation, and is to be conveyed round the head of the os brachii, so as to form a turn, or doloirc, with the first circle of the roller. Three, or four doioircs, or turns, each of which covers about one-third of the preceding one, are to be made, and then the upper part of the arm is to be once surrounded with a plain circle of the bandage. This last circular application leaves between it, and the cross previously made, a tri- angular, equilateral, space, technically named by writers geranis. The roller is now to be car- ried upward in a spiral manner; its head is to be brought to the opposite arm-pit, and the applica- tion of the wholp concludes with a few turns round the body. The bandage is to be fastened with pins at the place where it commenced. In applying the spica ingumis, the end of the roller is to be placed on the spine of the os ilium, of the aflcctcd side. The bandage is then to be carried obliquely over the groin, and under the perimeum. Then it is to pass over the back of the thigh, and next forward, so as to cross the part previously applied on the front of the groin. The application is continued by carrying the rol- ler over the pubes, over the opposite os ilium, and next round the body above the buttocks. The bandage thus returns to the place, where it began. Its application is completed by making a few turns, like the preceding ones, and lastly, a few circles round the body. SPINA BIFIDA, (i. e. the Cloven Spine.) - . . . .i» ii 11 •.i over the lower lumbar vertebrae, sometimes over the dorsal and cervical ones, and in some in- stances, over the os sacrum. Tile same name has also been given to an analogous tumor, which sometimes occurs on children’s heads, at- tended with an imperfect ossification of a part of the cranium. The malformation of the spine seems to consist in a deficiency of one or more of the spinous processes. Sometimes, indeed, these processes are wanting, the whole length of the vertebral column, as was seen in the case re- ported by Fieliz. (See Richter's Char. Bibl. B. 9, p. 185.) The Arabians, who first treated of this disease, erroneously imputed the deficiency of one, or more of the spinous processes to the tumor, while it is now well known, that the incomplete state of the affected vertebrae is a congenital malformation, and that the swelling is only an effect. In fact, the tumor generally becomes larger and larger, the longer it continues. The spina bifida may be regarded as an afiliction only met with in children: few, very few, live to the adult age with this incurable affection. Warner, however, has related a case, in which the patient lived till he was twenty.—(Cases in Surgery, p. 134, Edit. 4.) As I have remarked, the swelling is most fre- quently situated towards the lower part of the spinal canal, particularly at the place, where the lumbar vertebrie join the [sacrum. The fluid, which it contains, resembles serum, being some- what more liquid, than the white-of egg, and, , like the latter, frequently coagulable. It is in general limpid and colourless ; but, occasionally, j it is turbid, and tinged with blood. On pressing the tumor, a fluctuation is very perceptible, and a preternatural space may also be felt existing between some of the spinous processes. The fluid is contained in a kind of cyst, which is com- posed of the continuation of the dura mater, in- vesting the spinal canal, and is usually closely adherent to the integuments. According to Morgagni, spina bifida is mostly attended with hydrocephalus, and the enlarge- ment of the head has been known to undergo a considerable diminution, after the tumor of the 1 spine had casually burst. '(De Scd. ct Cans. Morb. Epist. 7. art. 9. Ephrm. Car. Mat. Dcxad. 3, Art. 1, Dccad. 2, Art. 2.) The fluid, which was lodged in the lateral ventricles, and} t : third ventricle,-passed into the fourth, through the aquaductus Sylvii, ruptured the calamus scriptorius, and thus passed into the spinal canal. Spin re bifidaa usually occur on the lower part of the spine; but, they occasionally take place onM j it the cervical vertebrae, where the tumors have theM \, same characteristic marks, as those near the sa- crum. Many facts, recorded by Ruysch, in his; Anatomical Observations, confirm the preceding* t< 1 account. The present affliction is one of a most incu4»B < rablc nature; for, with the exception of onctlj case mentioned by Morgagni, (Z)c Srd. ei ii ■; Cans. Morb. Epist. 12, art. 9,) a second, rc- j, ■ corded by Keilmann, (Prodrom. Act. IlainiM \ p. 136,) and two or three others more recently £