1033 THY TIIR :,l 3. He linen's Military Surgery, p. 3.'>G, ■c. Eil.'2. Vivo. Edinb. 1820. Amongst other :ferenees made by Dr. llcnnen, the follow- er seem to me to merit particular notice :— \n interesting case of wound of the neck, sne- eded by hemiplegia, and another of gun-shot mud of the throat, succeeded by paralysis nl convulsions, says Dr. Ileunen, is given by .’orcstus in his Surgical Observations. An- ther, with loss of motion in the arm, from a >ou nd in the neck, is to be found in the Edinb. led. Essays, Vol. 1. And in the Med. Com- umtaries, by Dr. Duncan, Vol. 4, p. 434, and Tol. 8, p. 356, are two interesting cases. Murinna, in his Med. Chir. Beobachtungen, elates a case of removal of the thyroid gland iy a cannon ball; the patient survivedfour- xn days, and died of dysentery. Wounds of ic oesophagus often remain open for indeter- minate periods, as is exemplified in a case ro- otled by Trioen, in his Fasciculus Observa- ionum, Lagd. 17-15, p. 40. Mr. Bruce has eeorded an interesting case of wound of the Esophagus, in Med. Chir. Journ. Vol. 1, >. 369. I would also refer to various parts of Mem dc Chir. Milit. 4 Tomes, by Baron jarrer. 'And Thomson's Report of Obs. node in Mil. Hospitals in Belgium, 8vo. Edinb. 1816.) THROMBUS, (from coagulated lood.) A clot of blood. The term is also ap- lied to a tumor, formed by a collection of ex- ravasated, coagulated blood, under the integu- .lents after bleeding. When such an extrava- ation is not considerable, it is usually called an echymosis. (See this word, and Bleeding.) A thrombus after bleeding generally arises rom the opening in the vein not corresponding o that in the skin. The patient’s altering the •osture of his arm, while the blood is flowing mo the basin, will often cause an interruption to he escape of the fluid from the external orifice if the puncture ; and, consequently, it insinu- ates itself into the cellular substance in the vi- tality of the opening in the vein. In proportion is the blood issues from the vessel, it is effused, n the cellular membrane, between the skin and ascia, covering the muscles, and this, with more >r less rapidity, and in a greater or lesser quan- ity, according as the edges of the skill more ir less impede the outward escape of the fluid. Sometimes, also, a thrombus forms after vene- lection, when the usual dressings, compress, and landage, have been put over the puncture, and • he patient imprudently makes use of the arm in which the operation has been done. This is more particularly liable to happen when the ipening in the vein has been made large. When the extravasation is not copious, it is >t little importance, the tumor generally admits >i being easily resolved, by applying linen, dip* ted in any discutient lotion. If the swelling he nore extensive, applying to it a compress, wet •villi a solution of common sea-salt, is deemed an efficacious plan of promoting the absorption of he extravasated blood. Brandy, and a solution d the muriate of ammonia in vinegar, are like- wise eligible applications, h sometimes happens, that a thrombus induces nflammation and suppuration of the edges of the juncture. I he treatment is now like that of my little abscess: a common linseed poultice may be applied, and any considerable accumu- lation of matter should be prevented by making an opening with a lancet in proper time. As soon as the inflammatory symptoms have ceased, discutients should be employed again, for the purpose of dispersing the remainingclots of blood, and surrounding induration. When the' quantity of blood is large, many authors recommend opening the tumor at once ; and, despairing of the power of the absorbents to remove the extravasation, they recommended as much of the blood as possible to be pressed out through the incision. I believe, however, that making an opening is seldom necessary, and often brings on inflammation, and suppu- ration, when they might be avoided. I have never seen any case, in which there was real occasion to make an opening for the discharge of the blood. A case of this kind, however, may be conceived. THYROID GLAND DISEASED. (See Bronchocele.) THYROID GLAND, EXTIRPATION OF. That such an operation, though attended with great difficulties, is not impracticable, is proved by the following example : — On the 20th of March, 1791, a woman pre- sented herself for admission at the Hotel Dieu, with a tumor of the right portion of the thyroid gland. The swelling was two inches in diame- ter, round, hard, and attached to the right and middle part of the trachea, and it pushed out- wards the sterrio-mastoideus muscle. Independ- ently of its being sensibly raised by each pul- sation of the arteries, it obeyed the motions of deglutition, and in a slight degree impeded the passage of solid aliment. The patient earnestly desiring to get rid of so inconvenient a de- formity, determined to submit to its extirpation, which appeared the only resource. The dan- ger, the length of time, and the pain necessarily annexed to the operation, were not concealed from her. Desault made a longitudinal incision through the middle of the tumor, beginning one inch above, and finishing one inch below the swelling. By the first stroke, he cut down as far as the gland, dividing the integuments, the platysma-myoides, and some fibres of the sterno- hyoideii and sterno-thvroidei muscles. An as- sistant, with the view of fixing the tumor, drew towards aside the inner edge of the wound, whilst the surgeon detached the swelling from the sterno-inastoideus muscle. In dissecting the cellular substance, which united the parts, two small arteries were divided, which were secured with ligatures. The outer portion of the tumor being thus disengaged, the inner was detached in the same way. The tumor was then drawn outwards by means of a hook, that it might be separated with more ease from the trachea. In the course of this dissection, the branches of the thyroid arteries were successively tied, as fast as they were divided. The assistant, who held tlie hook, pulled the gland from within and for- wards, whilst the surgeon finished the dissection outwards and from above downwards. Ibis part of the operation was the most difficult: it was necessary continually to wipe away the blood with a sponge, which necessarily prevented the parts from being easily distinguished, and obliged the surgeon to out but a little at a time, and always to examine well with his linger those