760 LAC sorption of the tears, and obstruct this function more, than would be the case, if the diminished action of those orifices and the lachrymal ducts were the only thing concerned. Leer delivers an exceedingly favourable pro- gnosis, observing, that the complaint often dis- appears of itself on the approach of warm dry weather, and may almost always be readily cured, by means of astringents. Amongst other re- medies specified by this author, I need only men- tion a solution of the sulphate of iron, to which a small quantity of camphorated spirit, or tinc- ture of opium, lias been added. It is to be dropped out of a pen into the inner angle fre- quently in the course of the day, the patient lying upon his back for some time after each applica- tion. so as to let the medicine have more effect upon the parts. (See Lclire von den Augenkr. 13. 2,2). 41—43.) Mr. Travers mentions a constricted state of the lachrymal puncta, and canals, which is curable by the introduction of a small probe. (Synopsis, <S[C. p. 366.) All modern writers agree, that the obliterated puncta, apd canals, can never be restored. (See Memoires de l’Academic dc Chirurgic, T. 5, Edit. \'2mo. in "which are several essays on jistula lachrymalis: viz. one by M. Bor denave, entitled, “ .Exaynen des Re- flexions critiques de M. Molinelli, inserees dans lcs Memoires dc I’lnstitut dc Bologne, confre U Memoire de M. Petit, sur la Listule Lachry- mals, insere parmi ceux de l’Acad. Royale des Sciences de Paris. Annee 1734. Another es- say by M. dc la Forest, styled “ Nouvclle Md- thode de traitor les Maladies du Sac Lachry- mal, nominees communemcnt Listules Lachry- males.” A, third by M. Louis, called “ Re- jlexions sur l'Operation de la Fistule Lachry- mals." G. L. Stahl, Programme, de Fistula Lachrymali, Halts, 1702. J. C. Sclwlunger, De Fistula Lachrymali, Basil, 1730. J. D. Metzger, Curationum Chir. quee ad Fistulam Lachrymalem qiyc usque fuere adhibitoe, Ilisto- r}a Critica, 8vo. Monastcrii, 1772, P. A. Lcpy, Quccstio, foe. An fist ulce lachrymali cap- Urium actuate % Paris, 1738. J. L.' Petit, Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 289, fyc. 8wo. Paris, 1774, M. A. Magnubal, De Morbis Viarum Lachrymalium, ac prcecipue dc Jistula lachrymali, Montp. 1765. A. Bcrtrandi, Traite des Operations, p. 297, 8vo. Paris, 17&4. Ancl has described his plan of treat- ment in various works : “ Observation singu- liitrc sur la Jistule lacrymalc, dans laquclle Ton apprendra la methodc de la guerir radicale- mcntP Turin, 1713, in 4to. “ Nouvclle Methodc de guerir lcs fi slides la cry males." Turin, 1713, in 4to. “ Suite de la Nouvclle Methodc,” $c. ibid. 1714, in Ato. “ Disser- tation sur la nouvclle decouvertc de Vhydropisie dn conduit lacrymalParis, 1716, in 12mo. And, lastly, And has published in the Mem. ite VAcad, des Sciences, anndc 1713, “ Precis dc sa nouvclle manierc de guerir les fistulcs lacrymales.” Mejcan in Mem. dc l'Acad, dc Chir. T. 2, p. 193, 4to. Palucci, Mcthodus curanda fistula: lachrymalis, Vindob. 1762; a tube preferred. Sabatier, Medecinc Operatoirc, T. 2, Ld. 2. Richter's Anfangsgriinde tier TVundurzneykunst, R. 2, A up. I 1. Pott's observations relative to the disorder of the LAG corner of the eye, commonly called the Fistula Lachrymalis, 8vo. Loud. 1758. Sir IV. Rli- zard, A New Method of treating the Fistula Lachrymalis, 4to. Land. 1780. Ware on the Epiphora and Fistula Lachrymalis; V,vo. Loud. 1792—95. Searjia snlle principals MulaUic degli Ocehi, Capo 1. IValhcu's New and Easy Method of applying a Tube for the Fistula Lachrymalis, Land. 1781, and 2d Ed. 1792. Sprcngcl, Geschichte tier JVi< htigsten Chir. Operational, p. 105 Nicod, Memoire sur la Listule Laehrymale in Revue Med. Ilislorique, S(C. live. 1 ct 2, 8ro. Paris, I 820. Fournier, Diss. de I'Appareit dis votes luchryrnalcs ; Montpellier, 1803. J. L. Angcly, Commentate Medica dc Oeulo Orgamtquc La- chrymalibus ratione TEtatis, Sexus, Gent is, it Variorum Animalium, 8vo. Lrlangcc, 1803. Beil, Diss, dc Chir. Fistula) Lachrymalis Cu- rationc, Rcrol. 1812; Flajani, Collezione d'Os- servazioni, T. 3. Desault, CEuvrcs Chir. T. 2,p. 119,8vo. Paris, 1801. ./. C.Roscnmul- ler, Partium Exicrnarum Oculi Humani, im- primis Organorum lachrymalium, Dcscriptio Anatomica; icouibus illustrata, 4to. Lips. 1810. C. IT. T. Schregcr, Vcrsueh ciner Verglcichenden Anatomic dcs Augcs and dcr Thrdiicnorgane dcs Mcnsche.n mid dcr ubrigen Thierklassen, f}vo. Lcipz. 1810. Beer, Lehre von den Augenkrankheiten, 2 R. %to. JVicn, 1813—1817. Win, Mackenzie, An Essay on the Diseases of the Excreting Parts of the La- chrypial Organs, 8vo. Loud. 1819; contains many valuable observations from the writings of Beer. R. Travers, A Synopsis of the Dis- eases of the Lye, p 228—359, ijpr. Pvo. Loud. 1820. Ph. v. Walihcr uchcr die sleinigcn Coneretionen dcr Thr'dneufussigkrit, in Journ. fur Chirurgic von C. Graefc, B. 1, p. 163, 8vo. Berlin, 1820. J. A. Schmidt 'jber die Krankheitcn dcs Thrdnenorgans; a work, of the highest reputation. LAGOPHTHALMIA, or LAGOPH- THALMOS. (from Xcyof, a have; and c$6ax- ptoj, an eye.) The Hare's Eye. Genius Lc- porinus. A disease, in which the eye cannot be completely shut. The following complaints may arise from it; a constant weeping of the organ, in consequence of the interruption of the alter- nate closure and opening of the eyelids, which motions so materially cpntribute to the propul- sion of the tears into the nose; blindness in a strong light, in consequence of the inability to moderate the rays, which enter the eye'; on the same account, the sight becomes gradually very much weakened; incapacity to sleep where there is any light; irritation, pain, and redness of the eye, from this organ being exposed to the ex- traneous substances in the atmosphere. An enlargement, or protrusion of the whole eye, or a staphyloma, may obviously produce lagophthalmos. But, affections of the upper eyelids are the common causes. Iieister has seen the complaint originate from a disease of the lower one. Now and then lagophthalmos depends on paralysis of the orbicularis muscle. A cicatrix, after a wound, ulcer, or burn, is the most frequent cause. When lagophthalmos arises from a paralytic affection of the orbicularis palpebrarum, the eye- lids may be rubbed with a liniment containing