BRONCHOCELE. •232 Bronchocele is a disease not confined to Eu- rope : it is met with in almost every country on the globe. Professor Barton, in his travels amongst the Indians, settled at Oneida, in the state of New York, saw the complaint in an old woman, the wife of the chief of that tribe. From this woman, Barton learned, that bronchocefes were by no means uncommon amongst the Oneida Indians, the complaint existing in several of their villages. Pie found, also, that the disease resem- bled that seen in Europe, in respect to its varie- ties. He did not indeed himself see the pen- dulous bronchocele, which descends over the breast; but, he understood, that it was not un- common amongst the women on the banks of the Mohawk river, who wore a particular dress for its concealment. In North America, broncho- cele attacks persons of every age ; but, it is most frequently seen in adults ; a difference from what is noticed in Europe. Bronchocele is said to be frequent in Lower Canada. Bonpiand, the com- panion of Humboldt, informed Alibert, that the disease was endemic in New Grenada, and that it prevailed in such a degree in the little towns of Hundaand Monpa, on the banks of the Magda- len river, that scarcely any of the inhabitants were free from it. The blacks, and those who led an active laborious life, however, are reported nof to have been affected. Some of the natives of the Isthmus of Darien, are said also to be terribly disfigured by this disease. (Alibert, Nosol. Nat. T. 1, p. 469.) In European women, bronchocele usually makes its appearance at an early age, generally be- tween the eighth and twelfth year, audit continues to increase gradually for three, four, or five years, and is said sometimes to enlarge more, during the last half year, than for a year, or two, previ- ously. It does not generally rise so high as the ears, as in the cases mentioned by Wiseman. Sometimes, however, this happens, as we see in the case of Clement Desenne, of whom Alibert has given an engraving. In this patient, a part \>f the tumor, as large as a" hen’s egg, projected isto the mouth. (Nosol. Nat. T. 1, p. 466'.) The swelling extended from the ears to the middle of the breast. A seton produced a partial subsi- dence of it; but, when it was withdrawn, the orifices closed. After two years more, the swell- ing became painful, suppuration took place, and fifteen pints of matter were discharged ; and six ounces every day after the swelling had burst, came away with the dressings for three months, but, notwithstandingall this suppuration, andmore afterwards, the tumor was only partially lessened. The disease mostly has a pendulous form, not unlike, as Albucasis says, the flap, or dewlap of a turkey-cock, the bottom being the largest part of the tumor. Alibert mentions a case, in which the swelling hung down to the middle of the sternum, and the iarge mass, which was quite a burden to the patient, used to become hard, and as it were frozen, in very cold weather. This author, however, cannot be right, when he adds, that it was an inert body, destitute of vitality! (Nosol. Nat. T. 1, />. 466.) In another curious instance, the tumor formed a long cylinder, which reached down to the middle of the thigh, the diameter becoming gradually smaller downwards. (;?. 468.) As a modern author has remarked, the common seat of bronchocele is in the thyroid gland; but, frequently, the surrounding celluhi- membrane is more or less thickened, and eoiiirtt butes to the swelling. Sometimes also the neiglL bouring lymphatic glands are affected, when i(; base is widened, and extends from one side of tli- neck to the other, In this circumstance, tl|, swelling gradually loses itself in the surrounding parts, and is not circumscribed, as in ordinary iij stances. (PosiiphHue Mew. suit a Naiuru r/«i j Goz;;o, p. ‘20.) It is soft, or rather flabby to thj touch, and somewhat moveable, but after a few years, when it has ceased enlarging, itbeeomejjb firmer, and more fixed. When the disease is ver jl large, it generally occasions a difficulty of breatll ing, which is increased on the patient’s catchini cold, or attempting to run. In some subjects* the tumor is so large, and affects the breathing! so much, that a loud wheezing is occasioned 11 but, there are many exceptions to this remark! Sometimes, when the swelling is of great sizeu patients suffer very little inconvenience; while others are greatly incommoded, though the tu-f mor may be small, In general, the inconvenUy ence is trivial. The voice is sometimes rendered! hoarse, and, in particular cases, the difficulty oil speech is very considerable. (See Fhjaui Coffer! d’Oss. T. 3, p. 271.) The difficulty of respiration, produced by tha pressure of the tumor, and the enlargement o|j other glands, as this author remarks, is the mostlj dangerous effect of the disease, since by disorder-!, ing the pulmonary circulation, it renders tha< pulse irregular and intermittent, and a strong! throbbing is excited in the region of the heart ! followed by fatal disease of the lungs themselves^ consequences, often not suspected to have anyr connexion with the bronchocele, though it is ini reality the immediate cause of them. , (To/. Cit.l p. 278.) The causes of the bronchocele are little known^ To the opinion that bronchocele is caused by the! earthy impregnation of water used for drink, the i following objections offer themselves. 1. The > water of Derbyshire, in districts, where this dis-| ease is considered endemic, contains much su-1 percarbonate of lime; but that in common use I about Nottingham, where the disease is also pre- valent, is impregnated with sulphate of lime.: However, that the disease is not produced by i water, impregnated with sulphate of lime, is evi-j dent; for, as Alibert observes, the waters of j Saint-Jean, Saint-Sulpice, and Saint-Pierre, | where bronchocele is frequent, contain much less j of this earth than the waters of Upper Mauricnnc, i where the disease is hardly ever noticed, though I the houses are built upon a vast quarry of gyp- j sum. The same fact was observed by Bonpiand I in NewGrenada. (Nos I. S .t. T 1,/. 471.' Nor, as Foderc explained, can the cause of the disease be correctly referred to t he use of any particular kind of food. Certain localities, however, seem to contribute to its frequency ; for, this author observed, that the disease is not prevalent in very high places, nor in open plains; but, that it In- comes more and more common, as we descend into deep vallies, made by torrents, where there is a good deal of marsh, and abundance of fruit- trees. The air is here constantly humid. Abstinence from water inboiled docs not dimm- ish, nor interrupt the gradua' progress of the dis- ease. 3. Patients are cured of the disease, » °