C/ESARE A N OPE RATI ON. sion, six incites in length, was made into the abdomen, where a quantity of coagulated blood was found. When this had been removed, the membranes presented themselves, exhibiting a bluish hue, and, after they had been opened, the head of the child immediately appeared. The navel string passed round the neck, which was also compressed in the opening of the uterus. The child evinced no signs of life. The placenta came away during the attempts to reanimate the child. The uterus contracted, and there was little bleeding. This patient, after a good deal of in- disposition, and occasional approaches to a per- fect recovery, was at length attacked with inflam- mation of the stomach and bowels, and died on the 9th of July. The uterus was found contracted to a small size, with an opening, of about the size of an almond on its anterior surface, with a round- ed callous edge. This aperture, Dr. Locher thinks, had remained ever since the first opera- tion, and had allowed the escape of the child in the second labour; a circumstance, which may be doubted, as the hemorrhage indicated the period, when the uterus had been lacerated, as this gen- tleman indeed has in one place particularly no- ticed himself. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11,- p. 182, <J(-(••) An almost incredible case is re- lated of, what may be called, a Caesarean birth, ef- fected solely by the powers of nature, and, as would appear, by a sudden rupture of the uterus and parietes of the abdomen, after the patient had been in labour three days. (See Essays and Obs. Physical and Literary, Vol. 2.) A laceration in the uterus, or the wound, made in this viscus in the Caesarean Operation, may give rise to dangerous and even fatal symptoms of strangulation, if any of the intestines insinuate themselves into the preternatural opening. When such an occurrence happens in the performance of the preceding operation, the intestine must be directly withdrawn and replaced. If the accident were to happen, when the child is extracted in the natural way, the bowel is to be pushed back into the abdomen from the uterus. Were the occur- rence to take place several days after the opera- tion, Sabatier inquires, what ought to be done? A surgeon is said to have pushed back the in- testine from the uterus as late as the third day. Sabatier thinks, that later it could not be done. In this circumstance, Baudeloque advises the ope- ration, suggested by Pigrai; namely, that of opening the abdomen and withdrawing the bowel from the place, in which it is incarcerated. But, there are serious objections to this proceeding. There is no certainty that the intestine is stran- gulated, and, if it were so, the adhesions, which arc soon formed, would frustrate the design of the operator. Gastrotomy has not only been recommended for cases, where the child has passed into the abdomen through a rupture of the uterus; it has likewise been advised for instances, in which the foetus has grown in the Fallopian tube, ovary, or cavity of the abdomen. Here, indeed, the operation deserves to be called Caesarean; for, in addition to the incision in the skin and muscles of the abdomen, it is necessary to open the pouch, in which the child is contained. The in- stances of eonceotions in the Fallopian lube are not uncommon. Those in the ovary, and cavity of the peritoneum, are more rare. Jjaba- H tier conjectures, that most of the cases, reported[■ to be of the latter kind, if attentively examined, E would have been found to be in reality concep- I tions in the Fallopian tube. Extra-uterine conceptions hardly ever arrive I at maturity. However, the fetus, formed in I the Fallopian tube, has sometimes been known ;| to attain the term of nine months, and then die, | either from the impossibility of its expulsion, or 1 from the insufficiency of the nourishment afforded I it. The pouch, in which it was contained, and! the neighbouring parts, have then inflamed, and, j| after becoming connected together by numerous l| adhesions, have suppurated. The abscess has >| burst, partly at some point of the circumference 'I of the bell}-, and, partly, into the rectum ; and the dead foetus has been discharged piecemeal !| with the matter. In other examples, the foetus, instead of giv- j I ing rise to abscesses, has become ossified, with II the enveloping membranes, and continued in II this state many years, without any other inpon- [I veriience to the patient, than what depended on |] the size and weight of the tumor within the [I abdomen. Most frequently, however, the pouch, con- j| taining the fetus, bursts, about the middle of j] the ordinary period of gestation, and the child H passes into the cavity of the peritoneum. At H the same moment, the blood-vessels, ramifying H on the parietes of the containing parts, usually I pour forth into the abdomen so much blood, that V the patients generally die in the space of a few I hours. (See n case by Dr. Clarke in Trans, of a || Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chi- 1 rurgical Knowledge. Also another adverted to by i Mr. C. Bell, in Mcdico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. 4, I] p. 340.) Sabatier acquaints us, that two facts of this I kind fell under his observation. The women were ih the end of the fourth month of preg- I nancy. Excepting a swelling, which affected I only one side of the abdomen, and frequent I dragging pains in this cavity, there was no indi- cation of any thing extraordinary. In other re- spects, the patients were well. They were both, all on a sudden, attacked with extremely acute pains, which lasted two or three hours. A more violent suffering, than the rest, was followed bv entire ease. The abdomen subsided, and be- came as it were flat. An equal moderate warmth diffused itself over this part of the body. The skin lost its colour. Almost continual syncopes occurred. The pulse was feeble and concen- trated. The whole body was covered with a cold sweat, and the women died. The rapid course of these symptoms rendered it impossible for Sabatier to be of any assistance. The pa- tients were actually dying, when lie was called to them. The examination of their bodies evinced, that the abdomen contained a large quantity of - blood; that the children lay on the intestines, connected with the lacerated Fallopian tube by means of the umbilical cord; and that the tube itself, which was strongly contracted, presented S no other tumor, except that which depended on the after-birth. There is nothing, that announces an extra- uterine pregnane}', with sufficient certainty,