1211 WOUNDS. more than nn hour, a recovery ensued, under ? judicious employment of bleeding, purging, odvnes, &c. In la Caserne de St. Elizabeth, at Brussels, er the battle of Waterloo, the number of pro- isions of the viscera, which fell under my no- e, were much more considerable, than what I _ viously had any idea of ever meeting with. I •11 remember, in my own part of the hospital, ■o protrusions of a large portion of the stomach; ree of the bladder; and ten or twelve of the esenterv, omentum, or intestines. Whether a suture should be used, when the otruded intestine is wounded, is a subject, which 11 be noticed in considering wounds of the in- stines. Some of the exposed intestine may have mor- ied, before the arrival of surgical assistance. In ses of wounds, this event is rare; but, in those strangulated hernia-, it is not uncommon. The eatment is explained in the article Hernia. When the protruded intestine is in a state of flammation, its immediate reduction is, beyond 1 dispute, the means most likely to set every ing right. Even when the inflammation is msiderable, a timely reduction of the displaced irt, and the employment of antiphlogistic means, ill often prevent gangrenous mischief. The ill, brown, dark red colour of the intestine may duce the practitioner to suppose, either that tie part is already mortified, or must inevitably jeome so, and consequently, he may delay re- trning it into its natural situation. But, not- ithstanding this suspicious colour of the intes- :ne, its firmness will evince, that it is not in a t ate of gangrene. The ultimate recovery of a ortion of intestine, so circumstanced, is always matter of uncertainty-; but, the propriety of teedily replacing the part in its natural situation, ■. a thing most certain. “ Partes egressae sanae observes Callisen) citissime sunt reponendee, : eque nbstat mutatio eoloris nativi in rubrum ubfuscum.’’ (Syst. Chir Hod. T. 1, p. 703, Tit. 1798.) In case the bowel mortify after s reduction, all hopes of the preservation of life re not to be abandoned; as I have noticed in ne articles Anus, artificial, and Hernia, in which ist part of the book, many things, necessary to e known, concerning the mode of reducing pro- ruded omentum, will also be found. When a piece of intestine cannot be reduced, r ranulations and new skin sometimes grow over and a cure follows, as the experience of Cal- isen confirms. (Op. cit. p. 700'.) The protruded viscera having been reduced, he next object is to retain them in the abdo- I nen, until the wound is completely healed. When the wound is small, this is a matter of no i lifficulty ; for it is enough to put the patient in . position, which will relax the fibres of the j»vour.ded muscles, while the edges of the wound ire maintained in contact with sticking-plaster, ind supported bv a compress and bandage. Cos- iveness is to be removed by the mildest purga- ives, such as the oleum ricini, or by laxative dysters, which are still preferable. Bui, in cases >f extensive wounds, even when'the treatment is .conducted with all possible judgment, it is occa- sionally difficult, and evert impossible, to hinder the protrusion of the bowels by- common dress- tigs, and a bandage. In this circumstance the edges of the wound must he sewed together. (See Gastroraphe.) In modern times, however, sutures are much more seldom employed, than formerly-, and, in the above article, some remarks are offered, proving, that the generality- of wounds of the abdomen do not require the practice. When the omentum protrudes, and is strangu- lated by- the narrowness of the opening, it soon contracts adhesions to it, unless speedily- reduced. Should such connexion be already formed, when the surgeon is first consulted, we are advised to cut off the portion, which exceeds the level of the integuments, and to leave the rest in the wound. The latter will block up the opening, and have the good effect of preventing hernia. (Riche- rand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 339, edit. 4.) When the protruded omentum is sound and free from adhesions, it ought to be reduced without delay-. But, when the protrusion is large, and there is reason to fear, from the vomiting and the pains shooting from the wound to the epigastric region, that the stomach is dragged, the displaced part must he made free, and, if sound, reduced. Should it be in a mortified state, the dead part must be previously- cut away-, and any vessels, which bleed, tied -separately- with a piece of fine thread, or silk, both ends of which may- either be cut oft’ close to the knot, and the part then re- duced ; or one end of the silk may be left out of the wound, and the other cut away. Practition- ers, who apprehend ill effects from leaving within the abdomen so small a particle of extraneous matter, as the little knot of fine thread, will pre- fer the last method, and withdraw the ligature altogether, as soon as it becomes loose. Extravasation in the Abdomen.— Wounds of the abdomen may- be complicated with extrava- sations of blood, chyle, excrement, bile, or urine. None of these complications, however, are half so frequent, as an inexperienced practitioner would apprehend. The employment of the phrase cavity of the abdomen has paved the way to much erroneous supposition upon this subject, and has induced many absurd notions, which even the sensible observations, long ago published by J. L. Petit, have scarcely- yet dispelled. As a nr dern writer lias observed : “ There is not truly any cavity in the human body-, hut, all the hollow bowels are filled with their contents, all the cavities lifted with their hollow bowels, and the whole is equally and fairly pressed. Thus, in the abdomen, aft the viscera are moved by the diaphragm and the abdominal muscles upwards and downwards, with an equable continual pres- sure, which has no interval; and one would be apt to add, the intestines have no repose, being kept thus in continual motion; but, though the action of the diaphragm, and the reaction of the abdominal muscles are alternate, the pressure is continual; the motion, •whirl) it produces, (they produce I is like that which the bowels have, when we move forwards in walking, having a motion, with respect to space, but none with regard to each other, or to the part of the belly, which covers them ; the whole mass of the bowels is alter- nately pressed, to use a coarse illustration, as if betwixt two broad hoards, which keep each turn or intestine in its right place, while the whole mass is regularly moved. Vt hen the bowels are forced down by- the diaphragm, the abdominal muscles recede: when the bowels are pushed