VEINS, DISEASES OF. 1 !S7 f 1M ■* The cases, for which it is fitted, are not those n which the veins of the leg generally are vari- cose, or in which the patient has little or no in- ’onvenience from the complaint; but those in •i’ieh there is considerable pain referred to a articular varix; or in which hemorrhage is table to take place from the giving way of the dated vessels ; or in which they occasion an •ritable and obstinate varicose ulcer.” (See Med. C/iir. Trims. Vol. 7, p. 195, ct scq.) On the subject of cutting through veins fleeted with varix, it is proper to observe, that \ en this plan has been known to bring on severe nd fatal symptoms. Cases, confirming this fact, re recorded in a valuable modern work, which lould be in the hands of every practical surgeon. 'See Hodgson's Treatise on the Diseases of tlrtcries and Veins, p, 555, ct seq.) It is but ..-tstice to state, however, that, in these examples, Ir. Brodie’s manner of doing the operation was ot adopted. On the contrary, his method, as r as I have yet heard, receives very general iprobation. Some cases and observations :ghly in favour of it, are detailed by Mr. Car' : ichael. (See Trans, of the King's and ueen’s College of Physicians, Vol. 2, p. 369, Cases of spontaneous varix in the veins of the m are rarely observed. When these vessels be- .‘ine varicose, it is almost always in consequence a communication being formed, in the operation venesection, between the brachial artery and ; e of the veins at the bend of the arm. The perficial veins in this situation then become c ?re or less dilated, by the impulse of the stream arterial blood which is thrown into them, here is, however, a good deal of difference be- -een these accidental varices, actually induced a mechanical cause, and those which originate ’ ontaneouslv, or from causes not very clearly derstood. The former never acquire the size i ich- the latter often attain; they never exceed certain magnitude, whether pressure be em- ryed or not; they never form tumors com- sed of an assemblage of varicose veins; they ? never filled with tough coagula of blood; •ir coats are never thickened, nor constitute the lid half canal remarked in the other species of rices ; the skin, which covers them, is not dis- sed to inflame and ulcerate; they are not sub- t to occasional hemorrhage; and the limb is t affected with any oedematous swelling. 'clpecli, Traitc des Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 1.) These circumstances render it evident, t here all surgical interference would be un- ressary. ■'See Aneurism, where the aneurismal varix is scribed; Cirsocelc, where the varix of the •rmatic chord is treated of; Hemorrhoids, ere the diseased and enlarged veins of the turn are considered ; Varicocele, where those the scrotum are noticed. VA'RIX. (from varius, unequal.) The term ’ices is applied to a kind of knotty, unequal k-colcured swelling, arising from a morbid itation of veins. ( See Varicose Vein’s.) FEINS, DISEASES OF. To the observa- ls and references made in the preceding c'le (Varicose Veins), I here annex a few larks on the principal diseases of the venous tern, in order to render what has been already > stated, in other parts of the work, more com- plete. It is justly observed by Mr. Hodgson, that “ the veins are liable to all those morbid changes which are common to soft parts in general; but the membranous lining of these vessels is pecu- liarly susceptible of inflammation. When a vein is wounded, the inflammation, which is the effect of the injurjq sometimes extends along the lining of the vessel into the principal venous trunks, and in some instances even to the membrane, which lines the cavities of the heart. This in- flammation sometimes produces an effusion of coagulating lymph, by which the opposite sides of the vein are united, so as to obliterate the tube ; in this manner a great extent of the ves- sel is occasionally converted into a solid cord. In some intances, the secretion of pus into the cavity of the vessel is the consequence of inflam- mation of the membranous lining of veins: under these circumstances, the matter is either mixed with the circulating blood, or, the inflammation having produced adhesion of the sides of the vessel at certain intervals, boundaries are formed to the collection of pus, which in this manner form a chain of abscesses in‘the course of the vessel. “ When the inflammation of veins is not very extensive, its symptoms are the same as those of local inflammation in general: but when the in- flammation extends into the principal venous trunks, and pus is secreted into the vessel, it is accompanied with a high degree of constitutional irritation, and with symptoms which bear a stri- king resemblance to those of typhus fever.” (See Hodgson's Treatise on the Diseases of Art cries and Veins, p. 51 t—512.) Besides the example of inflammation of fe- moral and other large veins, brought on by a ligature round a small aperture, accidentally made in the femoral vein, in the operation for popliteal aneurism, as mentioned in a foregoing article (Varicose Veins), Mr. Travers reports another case, in which a fatal inflammation of the femoral and external iliac veins, with marks of diffused inflammation up to the right auricle, was apparently caused by the application of a ligature to the mouth of the femoral vein, after an amputation. (P. 227.) And the same ca- tastrophe would appear to be occasionally the result of venous inflammation after amputation, even where the femoral vein is not tied. (See Carmichael, in Trans, of King's and Queen's College of Physicians, Vol. 2, p. 365.) In short, Mr. Travers’s observations, as well as those of Mr. Hodgson and Mr. Carmichael, tend to prove, “ that the inflammation of the interior tunic of a vein sometimes follows a punc- ture, sometimes a division, a ligature encircling the tube, or inoluding only a part of it, or arises spontaneously from an inflamed surface, of which the vein forms a part.” (P.238.) Mr. Carmichael relates an instance, in which the appearances after death seem to evince that the patient died, subsequently to an operation for fe- moral aneurism, of inflammation and suppuration within the femoral vein, and extending both dowrc the saphena, and upwards through the common iliac vein. The femoral vein had been pricked in the operation, but not tied. (Trans, of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland, 4 D