3G<> DISLOCATION. Thus subjected to the influence of these pre- disposing causes, the os brachii would be in con- tinual danger of being dislocated, if the scapula, which is as moveable as itself, did not furnish a point of support for it, by accompanying all its motions. This point of support accommodates itself to the variations in the position of the head of the os brachii, so that to the moveableness of the articular surfaces, their strength is, in a great measure, owing. The shoulder-joint, which is very liable to luxations in a general sense, is not equally so at all points. There are some, where a dislocation caunot occur; there are others, where, though possible, such an accident has never been ob- served. Hence, before examining the mecha- : nism of dislocations of this joint, it is essential to determine with precision the directions, in which they may take place. Here, indeed, authors : differ in a very singular manner. Sometimes, . they employ different terms to express the same thing; and', sometimes, the same words to sig- nify different things. Invariably agreed about certain kinds of dislocations, they entertain op- posite sentiments concerning others; and, in the midst of these differences, the perplexed surgeon often cannot decide on what basis to found his practice. Several former writers speak of four kinds of dislocations of the shoulder; many of three; some acknowledge only two ; while others allow the possibility of only one kind. By those, who enumerated the different direc- tions, in which the bone might be luxated, four :ases were particularly noticed. The disloca- tions were termed upward, downward, forward, ind backwirii. Such was the opinion of the pre- lecessors of Hippocrates, who sufficiently de- monstrates its inaccuracy. Others divided dis- ocations of the shoulder into such as take dace downward, upward, otUwnrd, and for waul. This division is adopted by Galen, who, how- 3ver, only cites an example of the luxation orward, and does not illustrate what he means iy dislocations upward, and inward. The second class of writers, amongst whom vas Oribasius, distinguished dislocations into hose which occur downward, forward, arid hacii- vard. Sometimes, they named the luxations iownward, outward, and inward. Paul of BLgi- la followed this plan, and, no doubt, his mean- ng is the same as that of Oribasius, only ex- pressed in different terms. Sometimes, they ■ •ailed the dislocation^ downward, forward, and tpuiurd. Albucasis Hid so, and thought the tatter case exceedingly uncommon. The third set believed, that when the head of he os brachii was displaced, it could be carried >nly downward into the armpit, a very common t ase; or forward, an accident less frequent, ^elsus is almost the only one, who has esta- 'lished this difference: he remarks, llumcrus undo in atom ercidit, modo in partem prior ran. Lastly, the fdurth body of writers only believed a the dislocation downward ; which was the sen- nn nt of Hippocrates, who had seen no other ort of case in his practice. At vnb humerus nJ trior em in pattern eicidil; ahum in partem xcttlcre non nudiui. The moderns borrowed from the ancients their ‘visions of dislocations of the shoulder-joint, and, at first, like their predecessors, they only determined in a vague manner the precise situa- tions of the head of the bone. However, they afterwards fixed it with more determination, in proportion as they became enlightened by ana- tomy, and, in particular, took notice of the es- sential difference between primitive and conse- cutive luxations. Petit admits four kinds of dislocations. 1. Downward on the inferior costa of the scapula, very rarely met with. 2. Outward, under the spine of this bone; a case, which as a primitive one, can only occur with difficulty. 3. Inward, into the armpit. 4. Forward, between the cora- coid process and the clavicle. Heister, like this eminent practitioner, acknowledged four disloca- tions ; but with a difference both of expression and meaning. One is downward, in the axilla ; one forward, under the great pectoral muscle; another backward, under the scapula; and a fourth outward, under the spine of this bone. According to Duverney, primitive luxations never occur in any direction but downward ; the others being all the effect of muscular action. DIVISION ADOPTED BY DESAULT, In the midst of these very confused ways of viewing a very simple subject, Desault judged it necessary, in order to acquire determinate ideas, to divide dislocations of the humerus into primi- tive, which are the sudden effect of external vio- lence, and into consecutive, which follow the first, by the influence of causes presently to be ex- plained. Let the oval surface of the glenoid cavity be included within four lines; one representing its upper edge; another its lower ; a third its inner edge; and a fourth its external one. It is manifest, that the head of the humerus cannot be displaced towards the upper edge. There, are situated the acromion and coracoid process, the triangular ligament stretched be- tween them, the tendons of the triceps, supra- spinatus, and the fleshy portion of the deltoid, insurmountable obstacles to the luxation of the bead of the bone, propelled by any force upward. Besides, what power could this be? Supposing there were such a force, the head of the bone must necessarily be driven outward as well as upward, ere its head would be displaced. This is impossible, because the trunk prevents the lower part of the arm from being directed suf- ficiently inward to produce this effect. On the contrary, at the other margins, there is little resistance. At the inferior one, the long portion of the triceps; at the internal one, the tendon of the subscapuluris; and at the exter- nal edge, those of the infra spinatus, and teres minor, will readily yield to any power directed against them, and allow primitive luxations to take place, downward, inward, or outward. Downward, between the tendon of the long por- tion of the triceps, and the tendon of the sub- scapularis, which last, according to Mr. Cooper, is ruptured; (Sure. Esstn/s, lJarl 1, p. 7.) in- ward, between the fossa subscupularis, and mus- cle of this name ; outward, between the fossa infraspinata, and infraspinatus muscle. After being pushed out of its cavity, and first B B