688 HYDROPIITHALMIA. water, which was effused in the longitudinal axis ot the eye, from the entrance of the optic nerve, as far as the ciliary ligament, or that hard sub- stance to which the posterior layer of the cap- sule firmly adhered. This little cylinder was covered, tor the extent of two lines and a half forwards from the entrance of the optic nerve, by a stratum of whitish matter, reflected on itself, like the epiploon, when raised towards the fun- dus of the stomach. Scarpa conceived that this stratum of whitish matter was the relics of the unorganized retina; for, on pouring rectified spirits of wine on the whole inner surface of the choroides, and the little cylindrical body, he found no vestiges of the retina on this mem- brane, and that the whitish substance, which was reflected on itself, became very firm, just as the retina does when immersed in spirits of wine. Both the cylinder and the indurated substance, occupying the place of the ciliary body, were manifestly only the membrane of the vitreous humour, destitute of water, and converted, as was described, into a substance, partly of a spongy, partly of an adipose nature. It is not easy to determine, whether this altered state of the vitreous tunic had preceded, or was a con- sequence of the dropsy of the eye. However, it may be, this fact, in conjunction with several other similar ones, that Scarpa has met with, in which he found no vitreous humour in the pos- terior cavity of the eye, but only water, or a bloody lymph, tends very much to establish the fact, that this disease principally consists of a morbific secretion of the vitreous humour, and occasionally, also, of a strange degeneration of the alveolary membrane, by which this humour is formed. Scarpa refers to a similar case. (See Med. Obs. and Inquiries, Vol. 3., art. 14.) The augmentation in the secretion of the aqueous fluid, both in the cells of the vitreous humour and out of them, after they have been ruptured from excessive distention, together with a debilitated action of the absorbent system of the eye affected; Scarpa regards as the probable cause of the morbific accumulation of humours in the eye. From such a lodgment, and succes- sive increase of the vitreous and aqueous humours, the eyeball at first necessarily assumes an oval shape, ending at the point of the cornea ; the organ enlarges in all dimensions; and in the end, it projects from the orbit in such a manner, that it cannot be covered by the eyelids, disfiguring the patient’s face as much as if an ox’s eye were placed in the orbit. This disease (says Scarpa) is sometimes pre- ceded by blows on the eye, or adjoining temple ; sometimes by an obstinate internal ophthalmy- In other instances, it is preceded by no incon- venience, except an uneasy sensation of tume- faction and distention in the orbit, a difficulty of moving the eyeball, and a considerable impair- ment of sight. Lastly, it is sometimes preceded by none of these causes, or no other obvious.one whatever, especially when the complaint occurs in- children of very tender age, from whom no information can be obtained: As soon as the eye has assumed an oval form, and the anterior chamber has become pretematurally capacious, the iris seems situated further backward than usual, and trcmulates, in a very singular way, on the slightest motion of the eyeball. Ihe pupil remains dilated in every degree of light, while, the crystalline is sometimes brownish from the very beginning of the disease; and some- times it does not become cloudy till the affection has arrived at its highest pitch. The complaint then becomes stationary; and as the crystalline is not deeply opaque, the patient can distinguish light from darkness, and in some degree, .the contour of objects, and brilliant colours. But when the eye has acquired a larger volume, and the whole crystalline has become opaque, the retina at last remains in a state of complete paralysis. In the last stage of the disease, to which the term bupthalmos, or ox-eye, is properly applica- ble, when the dropsical eye projects from the orbit, so as not to admit of being covered by the eyelids, with the inconveniences already enume- rated, says Scarpa, others associate themselves, arising from the friction of the ciliae, the secre- tion of gum, the flux of tears, the ulceration ofj the lower eyelid, on which the eye rests, and the excoriation of the eye itself. Hence, the drop- sical eye is gradually attacked with violent oph- thalmies, attended with intolerable pains in the part affected, and the whole head. The ulcera- tion, also, does not always confine itself within certain limits; but continues to spread, first depriving the cornea of its transparency, next consuming the sclerotica, and lastly, destroying progressively the other component parts of the* eyeball. At the first appearance of dropsy of the eve* jj many surgeons recommend mercurials, the ex-t tract of cicuta, and of pulsatilla nigricans ; an astringent and corroborant collyria, a seton i the nape of the neck, and compression of th projecting eye. However, Scarpa has nevei yet met with a single well detailed history of dropsy of the eye, cured by means of the above mentioned internal medicines. With regard tc externals, he has learnt, from his own experience! that when the disorder is manifest, astringent! and corroborant collyria, as well as compressior of the protuberant eye, are highly prejudicial] In such circumstances, making a seton in thd nape of the neck, frequently bathing the eye is a lotion of mallows, and applying to it a poultice composed of the same plant, have enabled hits to calm, for a time, that disagreeable sense oi| distention in the orbit, and over the foreheac and temple of the same side, of which patient in this state make so much complaint, especial!! when the}’ are affected with a recurrence of ophlj thalmy. But, as soon as the eyeball begins to prd trude from the orbit, and project beyond the eye lids, he thinks there is no means of opposing tl very grievous dangers, which the dropsy of tlf eye threatens, except an operation, which consist in evacuating, by an incision, the superabundas humours, then exciting gentle inflammation the membranes, and suppuration within th organ, so as to make it contract, and shrink inj the bottom of the orbit. To defer the operatid any longer, would be abandoning the patient the constant inconvenience of an habitual opj thalmy, the danger of an ulceration of the ey| ball and subjacent eyelid, and what is worse,] carcinoma of the whole eye, with great peril the patient. Beer’s prognosis in the third species of 1.