LITHOTOMY. 783 Professor Pajola, of Venice, was the pupil of Le Cat, and his method resembles that of his naster. He is stated to have cut for the stone 550 patients with succ ess; which deserves no* ice, because his operation has for its principles, liiatation, and no division of any part of the .ladder. He makes an incision into the groove ,f the staff; with a lancet-pointed, double-edged nife, called an urethrotome, the blade of which .as upon its centre a groove, that is continued o its very point, and serves to guide the beak >f another instrument, called the cystotome, into •lie groove of the staff As the professed inten- : ion of the cystotome is only to cut the prostate ] qland, its name is ridiculous. It consists of a nndle, and very slender blade, which is not con- nected with the handle, but with its sheath, by neans of a little joint, close to the beak of the nstrument. When the cystotome is opened as I ar as possible, the end of the blade, furthest ( rom the beak, is twelve lines from the sheath. n this position, it is held by a transverse piece j >f steel, which admits of being pushed more or i ess out at the option of the surgeon, and can be | ixed by means of a screw. Pajola, like Scarpa, insiders cutting the neck of the bladder dan- j icrous, and he merely divides the prostate, after i vhich he introduces a blunt gorget, and along I his a species of forceps for dilating the neck of i he bladder in all directions. (X. F. Rzidtorf- j ?er iiijtr die Operation dcs Blascnstcins nach I Pajola's Methode.) As Langenbeek observes, •treat as the success of this lithotomist has been, lis method of operating has little to recommend t; and every thing must be ascribed to his in- j lividual skill, and intimate knowledge of the iarts. Langenbeek even prefers Le Cat’s me- hod, in which there is no need of such a multi- r dicity of instruments. The blunt gorget and lilator are perfectly unnecessary', as the finger vould do the purpose of both. In the former editions of this Dictionary', I • nave not taken any notice of what has been :ermed by the French, “ Operation d deux 'emptand which was first mentioned by Franco. If, by this plan, it be intended, that :he incision should be made at one period, and he extraction of the stone not attempted till a I subsequent period, I cannot too strongly repro- ; rate the practice. But, if I am to understand, hat the postponement of the completion of the »peration is only to be adopted, as a matter of recessity, when the patient cannot bear the onger continuance of the unsuccessful efforts to 'extract the stone, of course, I can only sav, that rvery endeavour should be used to avoid this •ery disagreeable dilemma, by making in the irst instance an adequate opening, and (if this annot be done) by breaking the calculus, and ^arefully removing all the fragments. Some urther considerations against delaying the com- r'etion of the operation will be found in the 2d 'ot. of the First Lines of Surgery. The danger of the beak of the gorget slipping >ut of the groove of the staff) is one of the chief 'bjections urged against the employment of the •irst of these instruments. In order to obviate Ins inconvenience, Sir Charles Blicke had the ;roove of the staff, and the beak of the gorget, ■o constructed that they locked into each other, nd continued fixed till near the extremity of the staff. The contrivance, though plausible and ingenious, is not much used : the point of con- tact of the beak and body of the instrument is necessarily so small, that it is liable to break. It is allowed, however, that this objection might be removed; but another one is still urged, viz. the beak and groove catching on each other, so as to resist the efforts made to introduce the gorget into the bladder. Every operator knows, that much of the safety of the lateral operation, as performed at present, depends on the ease with which the beak of the gorget slides along the groove of the staff. Le Cat, in 1737, is said to have devised a similar instrument. Some operators have a good deal of trouble in dissecting into the groove of the staff! Sir James Earle invented an instrument to render this part of the operation more easy. It consists of a short staff, with an open groove, connected by a hinge, with the handle of another staff of the usual size, shape, curvature, and length, which may be called the long staff. The hinge, by means of a pin, is capable of being disjointed at pleasure. The short staff is sufficiently curved to go over the penis and scrotum, and long enough to reach to that part of the long staff which is just below the . beginning of its curvature. The end of the short staff "made somewhat like a pen, with the sides sharpened and finely pointed, is adapted to shut into the groove of the long staff and its cutting edges are defended from being injured by a proper receptacle which is prepared for it in the groove of the long staff When the instrument is shut, the groove of the short staff leads into that of tke long one, so as to form one connected and con- tinued groove. The short staff is rendered steady by the segment of an arch projecting from the long one through it. The long staff separated from the short one, is first introduced in the usual manner, and, the stone having been felt, the short staff is to be put on the other at the hinge. The incision is then to be made in the usual manner, through the skin and cellular membrane, and a second incision through the muscles, so as nearly to lay bare the urethra. The operator then being per- fectly convinced that the extremity of the long staff is sufficiently within the bladder, must bring the end of the short staff down, and press it against the urethra, which it will readily pierce, and pass into the cavity prepared for it in the groove of the long staff The two pieces being now firmly held together by the operator’s left hand, nothing remains to be done, except apply- ing the beak of the gorget to the groove of the short staff and pushing it on till it is received in the groove of the long one; and if this latter be made with a contracted groove, it will just enter where the contraction begins, and thus must be safely conducted into the bladder. {Earle on the Stone; Appendix; Edit. 2, 1796.) Des- charnps describes an instrument, invented by Jardaa, surgeon of Montpelier, which bears a resemblance to Earle’s double staff, but was more complicated, being designed to support the scrotum, and also press the rectum out of the way. The late Mr. Dease, of Dublin, and Mr. Muir, of Glasgow, considering that the gorget was more apt to slip from the staff in conse- quence of the latter being curved, and that its