AMPUTATION. CD the experiment of benumming the parts with a tierht ligature; but a machine, devised a few Years ago in England, expressly for the object *0f stupifying the nerves of a limb previously to amputation, is perhaps not undeserving of further consideration. (See J. Moore's Method, of pre- venting, or diminishing Pain in several Operations of Surgery, 81 o.Lond. 178-1.) The great reason of the latter plan being given up, is, that some patients have made more complaint of the suffer- ings occasioned by the process of dulling the sensibility of the nerves, than of the agony of amputation itself, without any such expedient. Yet, daily experience proves, that the pressure caused on the sciatic nerve by sitting with the pelvis in a certain position, will completely benuin the foot and leg, and this with such an absence of pain, that the person so affected, is actually unaware of his foot being asleep, as it is termed, until he tries to walk. On the little good done by-warming and oiling the cutting instruments, a method recently much commended, (Foust und llnnold iiber die Amvendung des Oelus und dir Warms, p. 3-23, Leipzig, 1806,) I am sure it is unnecessary for me to comment. AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. The thigh ought always to be amputated as low as the disease will allow, so that as little of the limb may be cut off as possible, the pain may not be greater than necessary and the surface of the wound have less extent than would otherwise hap- pen. (Sabatier, Med. Oh. p. 350, t. 3. Ed. 2.) The patient is to be placed on a firm table, with his back properly supported by pillows, and as- sistants, who are also to hold his hands, and keep him from moving too much during the operation. The ankle of the sound limb is to be fastened, by means of a strong band or garter, to the nearest leg of the table. Here, however, through an imprudent solici- tude to obtain the above advantages, let not the sur- geon ever be unmindful of the great axiom in sur- gical operations, that all the diseased parts should be removed; but, let him be assured of the truth of what Graefe inculcates, that it is more pardon- able to cut away too much, than too little. (Nor- men JUr die Ablosung grosserer Gliedm. p. 60.) At the same time, I do not agree with some mo- dern writers, who deem it necessary to amputate beyond the limits of every abscess and sinus, which may extend very far above a diseased joint, or compound fracture. Many of these sup- purations are only like ordinary abscesses, and finally get well, after the main disease or injury is removed, as I have often seen. Were it an in- variable rule to cut off a limb, above every collec- tion of matter, sometimes five, or six inches more of the thigh would be sacrificed, than circum- stances absolutely demanded, and the greater danger of a high, than a low operation, would be encountered. However, in all cases, where the bone is suspected to be unsound, or the muscles are affected with the morbid changes, peculiar to fungus hacmatodes, or other incurable diseases, tlie operation should be practised sufficiently high to take away all the distempered parts. In se- condary amputations, where there has been much •uppuration in the limb, and a sinus runs up, Mi- Guthrie says, that if the sinus extend only a short way between the muscles, the membrane lining it may be dissected out; but, if the matter has lain upon the bone, this will have become diseased, and amputation should be done high enough to remove the affected part of it. {On Gunshot Wounds, p. 87.) Many writers disapprove of amputating too close to the knee (Graife, Op. cit. p. 60); and Langen- beck urges one objection to it, not specified by any other author, viz. that, if the operation be done lower down, than two hand-breadths above the knee, the femoral artery shrinks into the aponeu- rotic sheath, which it here receives from the vas- tus interims and triceps, and cannot be drawn out with the forceps, so as to be separately tied, with- out first slitting up that sheath. Hence, he re- commends cutting through the muscles at the dis- tance above the knee already mentioned. (Bihl. fur die. Chir. B. 1, p. 571, 12mo. Gotl. 1806.) But, when I come to look at the breadth of two adult' hands, and see how much of the limb would be sacrificed, at all events, only to save a little trouble, I cannot bring my mind to concur with Latigenbeck, the remedy being worse than the evil alleged. The next thing is the application of the tourni- quet. (See Tourniquet.) The pad should be placed exactly over the femoral artery, in as high a situation as can be conveniently done. When the thigh is to be amputated high up, it is better to let an assistant compress the femoral artery in the groin, with any commodious instrument, fur- nished with a round blunt end, calculated for making direct pressure on the vessel without in- juring the integuments. Some authors indeed give a general preference to this method, whether the thigh be amputated high up, or low down, except where skilful assistants are not at hand. (Paroisse, Opuscules de Chir. p. 188. Brunning- hausen, Erjiihr. iiher die Amp. p. 273. Langen- beck, Bibl. Chir. p. 564.) Were the patient, however, in a debilitated state, and unable to bear loss of blood, as there might, in this way, be some considerable bleeding, by reason of the anasto- moses with the branches of the internal iliac ar- tery, I should feel disposed to employ the tour- niquet whenever circumstances would admit of its application. In amputations of the thigh, the great objection to the use of this instrument, is, that it impedes the free and immediate retraction of the loose muscles after the)' have been cut, the consequence of which is, that the surgeon cannot divide so high, as he otherwise could do, those deeper muscles which arc more fixed and attach- ed to the bone. Yet, in order to have the bone well covered with flesh, and no danger of a sugar- loaf stump, the latter object is one of infinite im- portance. Perhaps the best general rule is, to abandon the application of the tourniquet in am- putations, done as high as the middle of the thigh, except where the patient is remarkably weak, so that he cannot bear the smallest loss of blood, and'there is no steady intelligent assistant at hand, to whom the compression of the artery in the gtoin can be prudently confided. When, however, the operation is to be done much higher up, of course the employment ol a tourniquet is wholly inadmissible. Whether the right or left thigh is to be re- moved, it is customary for the operator to stand on the patient’s right side. The great advantage of this situation seems to be, that the surgeon s left hand can be thus more conveniently, ai.d quickly brought into use, than if lie were always