990 SUPPURATION. to the parts by the exudation of coagulable lymph, which becomes organized. (Thomson p. 306—308.) SYMPTOMS OF SUPPURATION. When matter is fully formed in a tumor; there is a remission of all the symptoms. The tnrobbing pain, which was before frequent, now goes off, and the patient complains of a more dull, constant, heavy pain. A conical eminence, or pointing, as it is termed, takes place at some particular part of the tumor, generally near its middle. In this situation, a whitish, or yellowish appearance is generally observable, instead of a deep red, which was previously apparent, and a fluctuation of a fluid underneath may be dis- covered, on a careful examination with the fingers. Sometimes, indeed, when an abscess is thickly covered with muscles and other parts, the fluctuation cannot be easily distinguished, though, from other concurring circumstances, there can hardly be the least doubt of there being even a very considerable collection of matter. An cedematous swelling over the situation of deeply situated abscesses is a symptom, which often occurs, and is well worthy the attention of everj'- practical surgeon. The discovery of the existence of deep ab- scesses is a circumstance of the highest import- ance in practice, and one which greatly involves the practitioner’s reputation. In no part of the surgeon’s employment is experience, in former similar cases, of greater use to him, than in the present; and however simple it may appear, yet nothing, it is certain, more readily distinguishes a man of observation and extensive practice, than his being able easily to detect collections of deep-seated matter. On the contrary, nothing so materially injures the character and profes- sional credit of a surgeon, as his having in such cases given an inaccurate or unjust prognosis; for, in disorders of this kind, the nature and event of the case are generally at last clearly de- monstrated to all concerned. Together with the several local symptoms of the presence of pus, already enumerated, may be mentioned the frequent shiverings, to which pa- tients are liable on its first formation. However, these rigors seldom occur so as to be distinctly observed, unless the collection of matter is con- siderable, or situated internally in some of the viscera. “ In the progress of the fever, accompanying acute inflammation, (says Professor Thomson) rigors, or cold shiverings not unfrequently take place, which recur at irregular intervals, and are in general followed by a hot fit, and slight in- crease of the febrile symptoms. These rigors, or cold shiverings, in general indicate, when they occur in the progress of inflammatory diseases, that pus either is formed, or is about to be so. In inflammation, succeeding to injuries of the head, these rigors are often the first constitutional symptoms which give alarm to the well-informed practitioner; for, they are generally, though not always, an indication, that inflammation has already made a dangerous, if not fatal progress. These rigors also accompany the formation of pus in the viscera contained within the cavities his endeavours to procure resolution have not been successful.” (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 321.) Rigors, as Mr. Hunter remarked, are more common at the commencement of spontaneous inflammations, than in inflammations from ex- ternal injury. They seldom occur in the sup- purations, which follow operations. The constitutional symptoms, which attend the formation of pus in the progress of chronic suppurations, are generally comprehended under the name of hectic fever. (See Fevers.) The pain, attending what Mr. Hunter termed the suppurative inflammation, is increased at the time when the arteries are dilated, and this gives the sensation called throbbing, in which every one can count his own pulse, by merely paying attention to the inflamed part. Perhaps, this last symptom is one of the best characteristics of this species of inflammation. When the in- flammation is moving from the adhesive state to the suppurative, the pain is considerably in- creased; but, when suppuration has taken place, the pain in some degree subsides. (Hunter.) The redness that took place in the . adhesive stage is now increased, and is of a pale scarlet colour. The part, which was firm, hard, and swelled, in the previous stage of the inflamma- tion, now becomes still more swelled, in conse- quence of the greater dilatation of the vessels, and the greater quantity of coagulating lymph thrown out. (Hunter.) THEORY OF SUPPURATION. The dissolution of the living solids of an animal body into pus, and the power of this fluid to continue the dissolution, are opinions, which are no longer entertained by any well-informed surgeons of the present day; and the use of such phrases as “ pits corrodes,’’ “ it is acrid,” &c. expressions, which imply an erroneous way of thinking, is very properly almost entirely dis- continued in the language of every sensible medical man. If these notions were true, no sore, which discharges matter, could be ex- empted from a continual dissolution. Such ideas probably arose from the circumstance of an ab- scess being a hollow cavity in the solids, and from the supposition, that the whole of the original substance of that cavity was now the matter, which was found in it. This was a very natural way of accounting for the formation of pus by one entirely ignorant of the moving juices, the powers of;the arteries, and what takes place in an abscess after it is opened. The knowledge , of these three subjects, abstracted from the know- ledge of the abscess before its being opened, should have led surgeons to account for the for- mation of pus from the blood by the powers of the arteries alone. According to the above erroneous principle, abscesses would continue to increase after being opened, as fast as before. Upon the principle of the solids being dissolved into pus, was founded the practice of bringing all indurated parts to suppuration, if possible, and not making an early opening. This was done for the purpose of giving time for the, solids to melt down into pus; but, it was ap-,