354 DISLOCATION. situations, and, for dilating the stricture in cases of hernia. O1SL0CAT ION. (from disloco, to put out of place.) A Luxation. When the articular surfaces of the bones are forced out of their proper situation, the accident is termed, a dislo- cation or luxation. Mr. Astley Cooper has justly remarked, that, ot the various accidents, which happen to the body, there are few, which require more prompt assistance, or in which the reputation of the sur- geon is more at stake, than cases of luxation; for, it much time be lost prior to the attempt at reduction, there is great additional difficulty in accomplishing it, and it is often entirely incapa- ble of being effected. If it remains unknown, and consequently unreduced, the patient becomes a living memorial of the surgeon’s ignorance, or inattention. Hence, this experienced surgeon forcibly inculcates the careful study of anatomy; the want of an accurateknowledge of the structure of the joints being the chief cause of the many errors, which happen in the diagnosis and treat- ment of dislocated bones. The following pas- sage cannot be too deeply impressed upon the surgeon’s mind : “ A considerable share of ana- tomical knowledge is required to detect the nature of these accidents, as well as to suggest the best means of reduction; and, it is much to be lamented, that our students neglect to inform themselves sufficiently of the structure of the joints. They often dissect the muscles of a limb with great neatness and minuteness, and then throw it away, without any examination of the ligaments, the knowledge of which, in a sur- gical point of view, is of infinitely greater im- portance ; arid from hence arise the numerous errors of which they are guilty, when they em- bark in the practice of their profession; for, the injuries of the hip, elbow, and shoulder, are scarcely to be detected, but by those who pos- sess accurate anatomical information. Even our hospital surgeons, who have neglected anatomy, mistake these accidents; for, I have known the pulleys applied to an hospital patient, in a case of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which had been mistaken for a dislocation, and the patient cruelly exposed, through the surgeon’s ignorance, to a violent and protracted extension. It is therefore proper, that the form of the ends of the bones, their mode of articulation, the ligaments by which they are connected, and the direction, in which the larger muscles act, should be well understood.” (Surgical Essays, Fart l,;x 2.) The most important differences of luxations are,— 1. With respect to the articulation, in which these accidents take place;—2. The ex- tent of the dislocation;—3. The direction in which the bone is displaced ;—4. The length of time the displacement has continued;—5. The circumstances, which accompany it, and which make the injury simple, or compound;—6. And lastly, with respect to the causes of the accident. 1. Every kind of joint is not equally liable to dislocations. Experience proves, indeed, that, in the greater part of the vertebral column, luxa- tions are absolutely impossible, the pieces of bone being articulated by extensive, numerous sur- faces, varying in their form and direction, and so lied together by many powerful, elastic means, that very little motion is allowed. Experience proves, also, that the strength of the articulations of the pelvic bones can scarcely be affected by enormous efforts, unless these bones be simul- taneously fractured, lloyer has therefore set down luxations of joints with continuous surfaces as impossible. (Traiti des Maladies Chirurg. T. 4, ]>. 17.) And, Mr. A. Cooper observes, that, in the spine, the motion between any two bones is so small, that dislocations hardly ever occur, except between the first and second vertebrae, although the bones are often displaced by frac- ture. (Surgical. Essays, p. 14.) In the articulations with contiguous surfaces, the facility with which dislocations happen, de- pends upon the extent and variety of motion in such joints. Thus in the short bones of the car- pus, and particularly of the tafsus, and at the carpian and tarsian extremities of the metacar- pal and metatarsal bones, where flat broad sur- faces are held together by ligaments, strong, numerous, and partly interarticular, and where only an obscure degree of motion can take place; dislocations are very unfrequent, and can only' be produced by uncommon violence. The loose joints, which admit of motion in every direction, are those, in which dislocations most frequently occur ; such is that of the hu- merus with the scapula. On the contrary, the ginglymoid joints, which allow motion only in. two directions, are, comparatively speaking, sel- j dom dislocated. The articular surfaces of the latter are of great extent, and, consequently, the heads of the bones must be pushed a great way in order to be completely dislocated; and the j ligaments are numerous and strong. 2. With respect to the extent of the disloca- i tion, luxations are either complete or incomplete. The latter term is applied, when the articular surfaces still remain partially" in contact. In- complete dislocations only occur in ginglymoid articulations, as those of the foot, knee, and el- bow. In these, the luxation is almost always incomplete; and very" great violence must have operated, when they are completely dislocated. In the elbow, the dislocation is partial, with re- spect both to the ulna and radius. In the or- bicular articulations, the luxations are almost invariably" complete. However, “the os humeri sometimes rests upon the edge of the glenoid cavity", and readily" returns into its socket. (.4-1 > Cooper, Essays, Part. 1, p. 14.) The lower jaw is sometimes partially dislocated in a manner dif- ferent from what is commonly meant by this ex- pression, viz. one of its condyles is luxated, while the other remains in its natural situation. As Mr. A. Cooper has explained, a partial dislocation sometimes occurs at the ankle joint. “ An ankle (says he) was dissected at Guy’s, and given to the collection of St. Thomas’s, which was partially dislocated : the end of the tibia rested still in part upon the astragalus, but a large portion of its surface was seated on the os naviculare, and the tibia, altered by this c hange of place, had formed two new articular surfaces, with their faces turned in opposite directions to- wards the two bones. The dislocation had not been reduced.” 3. In the orbicular joints, the head of the bone may be dislocated at any point of their circum- ference; and the luxations are named according >