871 DISLOCATION. were met with in subjects, who died at the Hotel Dion. Bell also makes mention of similar facts, and another English surgeon, says Bichat, has observed'the same occurrence. I suppose Bichat here alludes to Mr. Thompson, who long ago noticed the laceration of the capsule, and par- ticularly called the attention of surgeons to the subject,* in the Medical Observations and In- quiries. Desault conceives that the capsule maybe suf- ficiently torn to let the head of the bone escape; but that the opening may afterwards form a kind of constriction round the neck of the hu- merus, so as to prevent the return of the head of the bone into the place, which it originally oc- cupied. The correctness of this statement, how- ever, is positively denied by Mr. A. Cooper, who remarks, that they who entertain this belief, must forget the inelastic structure of the capsular ligament, and never witnessed by dissection the extensive laceration which it suffers in disloca- tions from violence. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, V- 18.) When a consecutive luxation follows a primi- tive one, several causes may concur in producing it. If a fresh fail should happen, while the arm is separated from the trunk, the head of the humerus, which nothing confines, obeys, with the utmost facility', the power displacing it in this manner, and is again pushed out of the situation, which it accidentally occupies. A man in going down stairs, meets with a fall, and dislocates the humerus downward; he immediately sends for Desault, who defers the reduction till the evening. In the mean time, the patient in getting upon a chair, slips md falls again. The pain was more acute, than when the first accident occurred, and Desault, an his return, instead of finding the head of the lumerus as it was in the morning, in the hollow jf the axilla, finds it behind the pectoralis major nusele. The action of muscles is a permanent cause of t new dislocation. When the humerus is luxated downward, the pectoralis major, and the deltoid raw upward, and inward, the upper part of this ■one, which, only making a weak resistance to heir action, changes its position, and takes one a the above double direction. The various motions imparted to the arm, nay also produce the same effect, according to heir direction. Thus, in consequence of un- kilful efforts to reduce the bone, a luxation in- 'ard frequently follows one downward. SYMPTOMS. In general, the diagnosis of dislocations of the umerus is attended with no difficulties. Whatever may be the mode and situation of ie dislocation, there always exists, ns Hippo- rates has remarked, a manifest depression under ie acromion, which forms a more evident projec- ts, than in the natural state. Almost all the •otions of the arm are painful; some cannot be -rformed in any degree; and they are all very mited The arm cannot move without the loulder moving also, because the articulation be- '6 no longer able to execute its functions, both ^nd the shoulder form, as it were, one body. Io these symptoms, generally characteristic cvcry sort of dislocation of the humerus, arc to be added such as are peculiar to each par- ticular case. When the luxation is downward, the arm is a little longer, than in the natural state; it is capable of being moved a little out- ward : but, an acute pain is the inevitable con- sequence of moving it either forward, or back- ward. The elbow is more or less removed from the axis of the body by the action of the deltoid, and the long head of the biceps, and supraspinatus muscles, are stretched, contract and tend to draw the bone outward. The pain, which arises from this position, compels the patient to lean towards the dislocated limb, to keep the forearm half- bent, and the elbow supported on his hip, in such a way, that the arm, having a resting place, may be sheltered from all painful motion, and stretch- ing of the muscles. By this posture alone, De- sault was in the habit of detecting a luxation downward, and his diagnosis was seldom found to be erroneous. Thus, in a fracture of the cla- vicle, the leaning posture of the patient is often, at the first glimpse, characteristic of the accident. In the axilla, a prominence, formed by the head of the humerus, may constantly be felt. With the general symptoms of dislocations of the humerus, a luxation inward has the follow- ing : the elbow, separated from the axis of the body, is inclined a little backward; the hurnerus seems to be directed towards the middle of the clavicle; motion backward is not very painful, but that forward is infinitely so ; there is a mani- fest prominence under the great pectoral muscle; the arm is very little longer than in the natural state; and the posture is the same, as in the foregoing case. Were a dislocation outward to present itself, it would be particularly characterized by a hard tumor under the spine of the scapula; by the direction of the elbow forward ; by its separation from the trunk; and by the somewhat increased length of the arm. A projection behind the clavicle; a manifest shortening of the arm ; and its direction; would clearly denote a dislocation upward. Frequently, nothing is more difficult, than to determine, whether the case is a primitive dis- location inward, or a consecutive one; the same symptoms being observable in both cases. An accurate history of the case, by representing the order in which the symptoms occurred, can alone throw light on this point, which is the more in- teresting, as in the two cases, the means of re- duction should vary. In the first, the head of the bone returns, through a short track, into its natural cavity; in the second, it has to traverse a much greater distance to arrive there. If, as Petit has pretended, there are disloca- tions backward, sometimes primitive, some- times consecutive, this remark would be equally applicable to them. Some analogous symptoms between disloca- tions of the humerus, the fracture of its neck, and luxations of the scapular end of the clavicle, might here create an uncertainty, if, in the latter case, the absence of a tumor in the arm-pit, and of a depression under the acromion, did not pre- vent an error. Uncertainty might arise, if in the fracture of the neck of the humerus, the pro- per symptoms of a fracture did not prevent a most detrimental mistake, which the occasional direction of the humerus, and a kind of pro- B B 2