944 PROSTATE GLAND. of the Prostate Gland, Vol. 1, p. 18, 19.) If we are to credit another statement, the disease occurs most frequently either in persons, wlio have not used the genital organs so much as nature intended, or in others who have led a life of excess. (Wilson on the Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 832.) It seems to me better to con- fess, that the etiology of this complaint is un- known. Nor are we rendered much wiser by conjectures about the effects of horse exercise, or those of a retarded venous circulation in old subjects, in creating a tendency to the disease. I have known several persons afflicted, who had led very sedentary lives. I am afraid, that the observation formerly made by Mr. Hunter still continues true, which is, that a certain cure for the scirrhous enlarge- ment of the prostate gland is not yet discovered. But, though such is the fact, surgery is un- doubtedly capable of affording a great deal of relief, so as to lengthen the patient’s days, and render them much more comfortable. This is accomplished principally by anodyne medicines, and drawing off the patient’s water, when he cannot void it himself either at all, or but im- perfectly, and with considerable straining and suffering. As a temporary relief from pain, and also as a means of removing spasm, opiate clysters should be administered once, or twice a day. {Hunter, p. 174.) Scrophulous enlarge- ments of the prostate gland, occurring in younger subjects, are probably more under the control of judicious treatment. Thus, Mr. Hunter informs us, that, in several cases he had seen hemlock of service. “ It was given upon a supposition of a scrophulous habit. On the same principle (he adds), I have recommended sea-bathingand have seen considerable advantages from it, and, in two cases, a cure of some standing.” In one case, burnt sponge had reduced the swelling; and, in another the same effect was produced, and the irritability of the bladder lessened, by means of a seton in the perinaeum. After the healing of the seton, however, the symptoms returned, and on a trial of the plan again, the former gpod effects were not experienced from it. Some time ago, I attended a gentleman under Mr. Lawrence, who was trying the effect of an issue in the same situation; but, I am not at present acquainted with the result. In these cases, the pilulae hy- drargyri cum conio (see Pilulae) have been very commonly prescribed, as an eligible alterative. Sir Everard Home mentions an instance, in which suppositories of opium and hemlock, passed up the fundament, and allowed to dis- solve there, gave more relief, than any other plan, not only lessening the irritation, but pro- ducing a diminution of the projection of the gland. In the first stage of the enlargement of the middle lobe, when there is no absolute obstruction to the passage of the urine, Sir Everard recom- mends bleeding from the loins, opiate glystcrs, and the pulv. ipecac, comp. (Ore Diseases of the Prostate Gland, Vol. 1, p. 70.) The tepid bath, the use of which he formerly advised, he now’condemns as a practice “ as little applicable to this disease, as putting the head in warm water would be to remove the symptoms of apoplexy; if any applications arc to be made to the parts, they should be such as produce cold.” ( Vol. 'I, p. 83.) In this stage, he observes, that catheters and bougies should on no account be introduced, more especially those of the metallic kind, since they produce a degree of disturbance, which the parts are not in a state to bear, and, if unskil- fully employed, they will increase the swelling, and bring on' a complete retention of urine. Sir Everard is an advocate for keeping the bowels open, for which purpose he prefers the infusion and tincture of senna, with the tartrate of pot- ash. { Vol. 2, p. 84.) If, in defiance of these means, the patient becomes unable to make any water, or, although able to pass a few ounces, is every hour obliged to make the attempt, and after much straining, discharges only the .same quantity, Sir Everard directs a flexible gum catheter, without a stilet, to be passed into the bladder, in the gentlest manner possible. This instrument is to be kept introduced with the catheter bracelet, or retainer, made and sold by Mr. Weiss of the Strand, and the water drawn off at regular intervals, not only till the first symptoms go oft) but till the bladder can retain the urine for the usual length of time, and what is voided has the appearance of healthy, urine. If, when the catheter is withdrawn, the patient should not be able to empty his bladder, it must be re-introduced, and after six or seven days, taken out again. When the disease is somewhat more advanced, and the patient cannot keep him- self quiet, the above practice of course cannot be adopted, and it becomes necessary to pass the catheter three or four times a day! But, even under such circumstances, when irritation is brought on by accidental circumstances, Sir Everard recommends keeping the instrument in the bladder until the attack has subsided. ( Vol. 2, p. 92, Sfi.) This gentleman finds, that, for cases of diseased prostate gland, common flexible gum catheters, originally made straight, are disadvantageous, as it is a long while before they can be made to keep a permanent curved form. “ When (says he) the curvature of the catheter is no part of its original formation, although it may have been produced by being long kept in a curved state, yet, when allowed to remain in the bladder, it gradually returns to its straight form by being moistened, and, when it has acquired it, the point is no longer kept directed upwards in the cavity of the bladder, but is constantly pressing against the posterior coats, pushing itself out of the urethra, and the irrita- tion, it gives the muscular coat of the bladder, i will often be the means of its being expelled bv a spasm with considerable violence.” (On Dis- eases of the Prostate Gland, Vol. 2, Chap, h.) Sir Everard further informs us, that Mr. Weiss, No. 83, in the Strand, has at length succeeded in making flexible gum catheters, originally curved, so that they always retain their shape. Their polish is great, and they can be had of any size: (hey are also made particularly strong, a quality necessary to secure them from being broken in violent attacks of spasm. Sir Everard states, that he has kept them fifteen days in the bladder, with- out their being spoiled by the urine, or mucus; whereas, common French and English catheters become in a shorter period so rough as to be unfit for further use. Metal catheters, he asserts, should never be employed but in cases of necessity, where the patient cannot be re-