874 DISLOCATION. assistants, who are to begin pulling in the same direction in which the humerus is thrown. After this first proceeding, which is designed to dis- engage the head ol the bone from its accidental situation, another motion is to be employed, which differs according to the kind of luxation. If this should be downward, the arm is to be gradually brought near the trunk, at the same time that it is gently pushed upward. Thus, the head of the bone being separated from the trunk, and brought near the glenoid cavity, usually glides into this situation with very little resistance. When the luxation is inward, after the ex- tension has been made in the direction of the humerus, the end of this bone should be inclined upward and forward, in order that its head may be guided backward; and vice verse), when the luxation is outward. When the head of the bone has been dis- engaged by the first extension, the motion im- parted to it by the rest of the extension, should in general be exactly contrary to the course which the head of the bone has taken, after quitting the glenoid cavity. When there is difficulty experienced in replacing the head of the bone, we should, after making the extension, move the bone about in various mariners, ac- cording to the different direction of the disloca- tion, and the principle just noticed. This plan often accomplishes what extension alone cannot; and the head of the bone, brought by such move- ments towards its cavity, returns into it, during their execution. When the dislocation is consecutive, it is the first extension, made in the direction of the dis- placed bone, which brings back its head to the situation where it was primitively lodged, and the case is then to be managed just as if it were a primitive dislocation. Often it is only at the moment of the reduction, that it is possible to distinguish, vdiether a luxation is of one or the other kind. Indeed, as the reduction mostly takes place of itself, when the extension is properly made, if the head be situated consecutively in- ward, it is seen to descend along the internal part of the scapula, then to proceed to the lower part, and, lastty, to ascend towards the opening in the capsule, into which it returns. When the extension is properly made, the re- duction is almost spontaneously effected. Indeed, whatever may be the kind of primitive disloca- tion, it is clear, that the muscles on one side of the articulation must be put upon the stretch, while those on the other must be relaxed. Hence, a change must necessarily follow' both in their directions and contractions, and also in the di- rection of these contractions. From this change, the muscles, when they act, instead of drawing back the head of the bone towards the ruptured capsule, pull it in another direction, and thus produce a consecutive dislocation. But, if by rectifying things, the extension should chance to restore to the muscles their former direction, then obeying their natural irri- tability, increased by the stretching of the ex- tending power, they will bring back the head of the bone to the opening in the capsule, and oblige it to enter with much more certainty, than the efforts of a surgeon could do, who is always ignorant of the precise situation of this ppeoing. It follows from what lias been said :—1. That all the art of treating dislocations, consists in giving a proper direction to the extending force. 2. That in general the coaptation is useless. 3. That reducing a dislocation does not consist in putting back the head of the bone into its cavity; but, in putting the muscles in a proper state for accomplishing this reduction, and that here, as every where else, art is only the hand- maid of nature. There are cases, however, in which the action of the muscles, being perverted by the oldness of the dislocation, and by the adhesions con- tracted with the surrounding parts, it becomes necessary to employ such means, as will serve to force, as it were, the head of the bone into its cavity, to which the muscles cannot bring it. With reasoning is combined experience, which is always the most effectual proof of this doctrine, both respecting reductions of the dislocated hu- merus, and of such accidents in general. Desault only employed extension, variously diversified, till he had put the muscles in a state, favourable for accomplishing reduction. The most prompt success constantly crowned this part of his prac- tice, and, doubtless, much of this success must be imputed to his wisely refusing to interfere in too great a degree. For the purpose of preventing the head of the bone from slipping out of its place again, the elbow should be kept some days quiet, and close to the side in a sling. After the reduction of a dislocation, which has happened downward, the facility of a fresh displacement is said to depend very much upon the extent to which the tendon of the subscapularis muscle has been lacerated. (A. Cooper’s Surgical Essays, Part 1, p 7.) The French apply the bandage, which Desault recommended for the fractured clavicle. CF SOME CIRCUMSTANCES, RENDERING THE REDUCTION DIFFICULT. 1. Narrowness of the opening in the Capsule. While Desault considers this circumstance as one of the chief impediments to the return of the head of the humerus into the glenoid cavity, Pott and Mr. A. Cooper are of opinion, that the capsular ligament can never create any such difficulty. According to Desault, the obvious indication is to enlarge such an opening, by lacerating its edges. This is fulfilled by moving the bone about freely, in every direction, par- ticularly in that in which the dislocation has taken place. Now, by pushing the head of the bone against the capsule already torn, the latter becomes lacerated still more, in consequence of being pressed between two hard bodies. The reduction, which is frequently impracticable be- • fore this proceeding, often spontaneously follows, immediately after it has been adopted. In the ; Journal de Chit tirgir are two cases, by Anthaume, and Faucheron, establishing this doctrine. Mr. C. White, of Manchester, also believed, , that the reduction was sometimes prevented by the head of the bone not being able to get through the laceration in the capsule again. He succeeded in reducing some cases which he supposed to be of this nature, in the following manner: having ; screwed an iron ring into a beam at the top of the patient’s room, he fixed one end of the pulleys to it, and fastened the other to the dislocated amt i