1111 UllINAIlY FISTULA. the issue of the mine ; and one may feel, in the course of the urethra, a tumor, which increases while the patient is making water, and afterwards disappears on pressure, attended with a fresli dis- charge from the penis of a mixture of pus and . urine. These internal urinary fistulas cannot be cured, ■ except by preventing the urine from passing into them and lodging there. The catheters employed -should be neither too large, nor too small. If too large, they would exactly fill the canal, and . the pus and urine contained in the fistula: could not be discharged. If too small, the urine woidd [insinuate itself between them and the sides of the urethra, and enter the fistula:. Their use ; must be continued till the ulcer is entirely ; healed. The most frequent urinary fistulae are those which are termed complete. Their origin may i be in the ureters, bladder, or urethra. Those which arise in the ureters, sometimes terminate in the colon, and the urine is discharged per anum mixed with the feces. But most com- monly, these fistula: make their appearance ex- ternal!}’, either in the lumbar, or inguinal regions. [Those which communicate with the bladder, have also different terminations. When they proceed from the upper and interior part of this organ, they ordinarily pierce the parietes of the abdo- men above the pubes, and towards the navel. They also sometimes terminate in the groins. When they originate in the posterior parietes of l the bladder, they sometimes tend into the cavity of the abdomen, where they almost always prove mortal; and sometimes into the intestines, if •here should be adhesions between these and the l bladder, so as to favour this communication. ^When the opening in the bladder is near the bottom of this viscus, the fistula sometimes ter- minates in the rectum of the male, and the . vagina of the female subject; but, most fre- quently, it ends in the perineum, in both sexes. With regard to the fistula: which originate in the urethra, they usually open externally in the peri- : naeum, the scrotum, or the penis, and sometimes also in the rectum. It is not uncommon to see the external opening of these fistula: at a great distance from the internal one, and to find it in the middle, and even the lower part of the thighs, the groins, parietes of the abdomen, and as high as the sides of the chest. Often there is only one opening in the urethra, while there are seve- ral situated externally, more or less distant from one another. Most of these fistulae are the consequences of a retention of urine, and are owing to the same causes, as the diseases of which they are a symptom. Those which communicate with the rectum, in the male subject, sometimes depend upon this intestine having been wounded in the operation of lithotomy; and those, which open into the vagina, are often the effect of a violent contusion, caused by the head of the child in difficult labours, or of ulceration produced by pessaries, which are too large, and the margins of which are too sharp and irregular. Carcino- ma <rf the rectum and vagina also give rise to fistula:, by extending into the bladder. I he discharge of urine from the external ori- fice of the fistula, is an unequivocal proof of its communication with the urinary passages; when the fistula is narrow, and there is no obstruc- tion in the urethra, the urine sometimes escapes more readily the latter way, than through the fistula. It may also be difficult, or even impos- sible, to find out the internal orifice of the fis- tula with a probe. When the fistula communi- cates with the rectum or vagina, a staff intro- duced through the urethra, may sometimes be felt in those parts. When fistula of the bladder, or urethra, are the consequences of a retention of urine, pro- duced by strictures, which still exist, or have even increased since the formation of the fistula, the circumstance may render the introduction of the catheter difficult. In this sort of case, if the catheter cannot be passed, the surgeon must endeavour to remove the stricture with bougies, on the principles explained in the article Ure- thra, Strictures of. “In general, (as Sir Ever- ard Home observes) where fistula: take place in perinaeo, in consequence of a stricture, the re- moval of the stricture is sufficient to give the fis- tula a disposition to heal. There are, however, cases, which require more being done for that purpose, and simply laying them open is not sufficient.” (See Fistulce in Pcrincco.) Under such circumstances, Sir Everard Home finds the actual cautery the surest means of making the part heal. In one case, he passed a bougie into the urethra, and seared the edge of the fistula with a hot wire, introduced as far as to touch the bougie. In another instance, a full-sized silver sound was passed into the bladder, and, the di- rection of the fistula having been ascertained with a probe, a female steel sound was heated to red- ness, and “ at the moment at which it passed from a red to a black heat, it was hurried down through the fistula (about two inches and a half) to the sound in the urethra.” In both these cases, a cure was effected. (Home on Stric- tures, Vol. 3, p. 262, £(c.) When fistula: terminate in the lower part of the bladder, Desault advises the utmost care to be taken to prevent the catheter from being stopped up, and to binder the instrument from becoming displaced, or slipping out of the blad- der ; for which last purpose, the catheter brace- let, described by Sir E. Home, seems well cal- culated. However, when the fistula communi- cates with the urethra, Desault believes, that no advantage would be derived from keeping the catheter open. In both cases, Desault recom- mends us to continue the catheter, not only until the fistula is cured, bul also until the obstacles, which hinder the urine from passing the natural way, are removed. Fistula: of the bladder, communicating with the vagina, and produced by difficult labours, are al- most always attended with loss of substance. The forcible contusion, occasioned by the child’s head on the anterior parietes of the vagina and bottom of the bladder, gives rise to the formation of sloughs, the separation of which sometimes leaves apertures large enough to admit the finger, and hence the difficulty of the cure. In treating such fistulae, there are two indications to he ful- filled : 1st, to hinder the urine from passing into the vagina : 2dlv, to keep the edges of the divi- sion as closely as possible together, so as to give them an opportunity of uniting. In women, the introduction of the catheter is