810 MOLLITIES OSSIUM. m tins last case, excepting with regard to the pain that is occasioned by the node, I own I have not found its effects so certain, as I at first thought I had reason to believe. I do not find it of service in the cure of any other symptom of the venereal disease.” {Med. Qbs. and Imp J ol. 3, p. 194, 195.) Mr. Pearson, however, asserts, unequivocally, that mezereon has not the power of curing the venereal disease in any one stage, or under any one form, and if the de- coction should ever reduce the venereal node, yet there will be a necessity for talcing mercury in as large quantity, and for as long a time, as if no mezereon had been exhibited. Cullen found this medicine of use in some cutaneous affections, but, excepting an instance or two of lepra, Mr. Pearson has very seldom found it possessed of medicinal virtue, either in syphilis, or the sequelae of that disease, scrofula, or cutaneous affections. (Pearson on Lues Venerea, p. 55—59.) As the possibility of curing most forms of the venereal disease, not only without mercury, but without any internal medicines whatever, is now well established, it is difficult to know what de- gree of importance to attach to observations, de- claring certain articles of the materia medica efficient or inefficient in the cure of that disease; because, if it admit of a spontaneous cure, but will not get well when mezereon, or any other particular medicine is exhibited, we are ne- cessarily obliged to suppose, that such medicine is worse than useless. MODIOLUS. The crown, or saw of a trepan. MOLLITIES OSSIUM. A morbid soft- ness of the bones, which become preternaturally flexible, in consequence either of the inordinate absorption of the phosphate of lime, from which their natural solidity is derived, or else of this matter not being duly secreted into their texture. The bones affected become specifically lighter. (Saillant, Hist, de la Soc. Royale de Mid. T. 3.) Dr. Bostock made some experiments, with the view of ascertaining the proportion of earthy matter in bones affected with mollifies: he examined a dorsal vertebra of a woman whose bones were found^soft and flexible after her de- cease. In one part of the diseased bone, he found, that the quantity of earthy matter only amounted to one-fifth of its weight, and in another, only to one-eighth, while the proportion in healthy bones amounted to more than one half of their whole weight. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, and Wilson on the Bones and Joints, p. 253.) In rickets, the bones yield and become distorted only by slow degrees, and retain their natural in- flexibility; but, in the present disease, they may be at once bent in any direction, and frequently admit of being readily divided with a knife. The mollifies ossium is an exceedingly uncommon disease, and its causes are buried in obscurity. It is supposed, however, to depend upon some peculiar state of the constitution, and the in- dividuals, attacked with it, have been remarked to be mostly about, or rather beyond, the middle period of life, {J. Wilson, l ol. cit. p. 252.) and generally, if not always, women. {Neu- mann in Abhandl. der K. K. Josephs Acad. 2 B. p. 173 ; Portal Cours d'Anatomic, T. 1, p. 15.) One instance, however, is reported, in which the patient was a young man seventeen years of age. ( Thomas sin, in Journ. de MU, T. 43, p. 222.) Surgical writers have usualli [i considered mollifies and fragilitas ossium as tw| distinct and different affections. Boyer think^ however, that this point is by no means we] established. He admits, that there have been j few rare instances of mollifies, where the hontj were completely flexible, without any degree tji fragility. But, he contends, that in almost aj the cases on record, the fragilitas and njollitiel have been combined. He regrets, that bonea affected with fragility, have never been chemil cally, nor anatomically examined, particularly, a| there have been persons, who while living mere!; betrayed the symptoms of mollifies ossium, yet in whom unsuspected fractures, evidently of lon< i standing, were discovered after death; while othe fractures also happened from the slightest cause: during the examination of the same bodies. (Set Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. G07 —(109.) The truth of these observations is well illustrated in the case, lately reported by Mr. Wilson. {On the Bones, <|-c. p. 254.) In the present place, I shall merely describe the pure mollifies ossium, or that disorder of the bonesi in which they become completely flexible, and lose all their natural firmness. And in order tot give an idea of the disorder, I shall quote the* case of Madame Supiot. In the year 1747 she had a fall, which occasioned her to keep her bed for some time, and left great pain and weakness in her loins, and lower extremities. In about a, year and a half afterwards, she began to perceive her left leg particularly affected. Along with jl this weakness, she had violent pains over her ji whole body, which increased after a miscarriage, J and still more after a natural deliver)-, in the) year 1751. She was now seized with startings, j great inquietude, and such violent heats, that shej was almost continually in a sweat, and could not 1 bear the least covering even in the coldest weather, i and while her pains continually increased, she 1 took notice that her urine precipitated a white) sediment. Her pains abated on the appearance j of the sediment, but she now observed that her limbs began to bend, and from this time the soft- ness of them gradually increased till her death. In the month of April, 1752, the trunk of the body did not exceed 23 inches in length; the thorax exceedingly ill formed, and the bones of the upper part very much distorted; those of the lower part were very much bent, and the thigh bones became so pliable, that her feet might easily be laid on each side of her head. The right side did not, till after some time, be- come so deformed as the left; but it was sur- prising to observe the alterations which daily took place, and the different figures assumed by the limbs, in consequence of the increased soft- ness of the bones; so that when the sediment in the urine was considerable, the disease of the bones seemed to be at a stand, increasing con- siderably when it was suppressed. Besides this, she l’.ad violent pains, startings, difficulty ot breathing, spitting of blood, and, lastly, a fever, with convulsions. She died in the beginning of November, 1752, and on dissecting her body, the following appearances were observed: 1. The muscles in general were of a very soft and pale consistence, the vastus externus, fascialis, qua- driceps, biceps, and external parts of the gracilis,