1001 SURGERY. Aiitbroise Pare was not content, like his predecessors, with exercising his art with re- putation ; he did not follow the example of the Quatre-Maitres of Pitard, so justly celebrated for having composed the first statutes of the Col- lege of Surgeons at Paris, in the reign of St. Lewis, whom he had attended in his excursions to the Holy Land; and of several other sur- geons, the fruits of whose experience were lost to their successors. Pare transmitted the result of his own experience in a work that will remain immortal. (See (Euvrcs d’Ambroisc Pare, Con- scillcr et premier Chirurgicn du Hoi, divisees in ‘28 (hires, in folio, Edit. 4 to. Paris, 1535.) His writings, so remarkable for the variety and number of facts in them, are eminently di- stinguished from all those of his time, inasmuch as the ancients are not looked up to in them with superstitious blindness. Freed from the yoke of authority, he submitted every thing to the test of observation, and acknowledged experience alone as his guide. The French writers are with reason proud of their countryman Pare to this day: they allege, that he must ever hold amongst surgeons the same place that Hippo- crates occupies amongst physicians. Nay, they add, that, perhaps, there are none either of the ancients, or moderns, who are worthy of be- ing compared with him. (Richerund Nosogr. Chirurg. T. I.) After the death of-this great man, surgery, which owed its advancement to him, continued stationary, and even took a retrograde course. This circumstance is altogether ascribable to the contemptible state, into which those who pro- fessed the art fell, after being united to the bar- bers by the most disgraceful association. Pigrai, the successor of Ambroise Pare, was far from being an adequate substitute for him. A spiritless copier of his master, he abridged his surgery in a Latin work, where the unaffected graces of the original, the sincerity, and the in- effable charm, inseparable from all productions of genius, entirely disappeared. He received, however, equal praise from his contemporaries ; doubtless, because he filled a high situation: but, as Richerand remarks, his name, which is to-day almost forgotten, proves sufficiently, that dignities do not constitute glory. Rousset.and Guillemeau distinguished them- selves, however, in the art of midwifery, while Covillard, Cabrol, and Flabicot enriched surgery with a great number of curious observations. (See Obs. Chir. pleincs dc remaripncs curieuses, I,yon, 1639, in 8vo. Alphabet Anatomiquc, Geneve, 1G’0'2, in 4to. Semainc Anatomiquc ; Question Chir. sur la Bronchotomic, Paris, 1620, in 8vo.) In the next or seventeenth century, a fresh im- pulse produced additional improvements. Then appeared in Italy, Osar Magatus, who simpli- fied the treatment of wounds, (dcrardyulnerum mcdicatione, libri 2, Venet. 1616, in folio ;) Fabricius ab Aquapendente, even less praise- worthy as a surgeon, than as a physiologist, (Opera Chir. Paris, 1613, infol.;) and Mar- cus Aurelius Severinus, that restorer of^ active surgery. (Be cfficaci Medicina, libri h ranco- rished Wiseman,who was the Pare of England (SeeSeveral Chirurgical Treatises, Loud. 1676, infol.) ; and William Harvey, whose discovery of the circulation of the blood had such an in- fluence over the advancement of surgery, that he must be classed among the principal improvers of this science. (See Exercitatio Anatomica dc motu cordis ct sanguinis in animalibus, Francofurti, 1653, in 4to.) In Germany, Fa- bricius Hildanus, (Obs. ct Curationum, Ccn- turice 6, 2 Vol. in 4to. 1641.) who was far su- perior, as a surgeon, to the Italian Fabricius Scultetus, so well known for his work, entitled Armamentarium Chirurgicum; Ulnae, 1653, in folio. Purmann and Solingen, who had the fault of being too partial to the use of numerous complicated instruments. (See Cursce Ohs. Chir. Lipsice, 1710, in4to. Manualc Obs. dcr Chirurgic, Amsterdam, 1684, in 4to.) Holland, restored to liberty by the generous exertions of its inhabitants, did not remain a stranger to the improvement of surgery. This nation, so singular in many respects, presents us with one particularity, which claims the notice of a medical historian. Ruysch, who was an emi- nent anatomist, and merits equal celebrity for his Obs. Anatoinico-Chirurgicarum Ccntnricc, Amstelodam. 1691, in 4to. carried with him to the grave the secret of his admirable injections. (See also his These ur. Anat. x, in 4to. Adver- se riorum auatomicorum medico-chirurgicorum Decad. 3, in 4to. Amstelodam.) Roonhuysen also made a secret of his lever, which, before the invention of the forceps, was the only re- source in difficult labours. Raw, who success- fully cut fifteen hundred patients for the stone, took such pains to conceal his manner of ope- rating, that Heister and Albinus, his two most distinguished pupils, have each given a different explanation of it. Such a disposition, which was extremely hurtful to the advancement of sur- gical knowledge, would materially have retarded the progress of surgery in Holland, had not Camper, in the following century, effaced this imputation by the great number of his discover- ies, and his zealous desire to make them public. While great improvements were going on in Italy, England, and Holland, surgery languished in a humiliated state in France. The accoucheur Mauriceau (Traitedcs Maladies des Femmes grosses, Paris, 1668, in 4to.) Dionis, (Cours d' Operations dc Chirurgic, Paris, 1707, 8vo.) Saviard, (Nouveau Rcriirild'Obs. Chir. Paris, 1702, in \2mo.) and Belloste, (Chirurgicn d'Hopital, Paris, 1696, inSvo.) were the only French surgeons of note, who could be contrasted with so many distinguished men of other nations. Richerand observes, that the splendid days of Louis the fourteenth were an iron age for dis- couraged surgery. And yet this monarch seems to have been personally interested in the melio- ration of this important art; for he was very nearly falling a victim to a surgical disease, a fistula in ano, and was not cured till after a great number of blundering operations, and use- less experiments. Chronology teaches simply the history of dates. In the study of the sciences, the only ii p • * <1 iiL r.wit,.