.MORTIFICATION. 819 mischief, and maybe regarded as the interme diate link, between the most violent stage of inflammation and sphacelus. The presence of this last implies the total loss of life in the part affected, the destruction of its organization, the abolition of all its functions, and an absolute inability to resume them again. However, even when we see the surface of a part manifestly sphacelated, we must not always conclude, that the entire destruction of its whole substance or thickness is certain; for, in many cases, the dis- order only affects the skin and cellular substance. In this state, the integuments frequently slough awav, leaving the tendons, muscles, and other organs, perfectly sound. It is only in external affections of the body, that the progress of inflammation to gangrene and sphacelus can be marked with any degree of precision. The approaches of the latter are also not invariably announced by the distinct and manifest symptoms of gangrene, even when the disorder is quite superficial. There are cases, Which justify the conclusion, that a small part-of the body may be affected with sudden death, just in the same manner as the whole machine. Sphacelus is often seen making its appearance in a part, which is apparently quite healthy, with- out being preceded by any other symptoms, than a sudden acute pain in the seat of the mischief. Sometimes, in the earliest period of the com- plaint, a black spot, which rapidly spreads on every side, is the only change that can be ob- served. In order to form a just prognosis, all the above circumstances must be taken into consideration, and, in particular, we must never deliver an opinion, without having closely examined the progress of the disorder; for, should we make a favourable prognosis from such appearances as might justify us as much as possible in so doing, there would be great risk of finding ourselves most miserably mistaken by the event of the case. In all cases of considerable mortification, even when arising from an external cause, the patient cannot be deemed exempt from danger, not only while no separation of the mortified parts has begun, but also, not before such parts have been completely detached. TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. I shall arrange under two heads what is to be said of the treatment of mortification. Under the first, will be comprehended every thing, which relates to internal remedies, and such other means, as are indicated by the general state of the system ; under the second, topical remedies, and the local treatment of the parts affected. In the treatment, the surgeon will always have one thing for immediate consideration; viz. whether the case before him is one of acute mor- tification, attended with inflammation and in- flammatory fever; or whether it is a chronic mortification, beginning without fever, or at- tended with a fever of a typhoid nature and great prostration of strength? By making up his mind upon this point, the practitioner will establish an useful general principle for his guidance, espe- cially in the commencement of the treatment. 1. When mortification is acute, and seems to depend on the violence of inflammation, the first indication is to moderate the inordinate action of the sanguiferous system, by the prudent employ- ment of such means as are proper for counter- acting inflammation. In short, relief is to be sought in the antiphlogistic regimen, which con- sists in the employment of blood-letting, purga- tives, diaphoretics, and diluents, and in abstinence from all vegetable, or animal substances, which have a tendency to excite, or to augment the febrile action. It is a regimen which must be pursued, so long as inflammatory fever continues It is only in cases in which the fever from the first assumes a typhoid character, or where the mortification takes place without the previous occurrence of fever, that any deviation from the antiphlogistic regimen can be allowed. Dr. Thomson, from whom I have borrowed the foregoing passage, also notices the present common aversion to bleeding in compound frac- tures, erysipelas, carbuncle, hospital gangrene, burns, and frost-bite ; cases in which the patient, it is said, can seldom bear with impunity any considerable loss of blood. “ In many instances of these injuries and affections (says he) blood- letting, I know, is not required ; but I am doubtful, even if it were generally employed, whether it would produce all the mischiefs, which have of late years been ascribed to it. I believe it to be the most efficacious of any of the remedies that can be employed, in all cases of inflammatory fever threatening to terminate in gangrene, and that its use in such cases ought never to be omitted in the young, strong, and plethoric.” (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 559.) When bleeding has not been sufficiently practised, during the state of the inflammation antecedent to the mortification ; when the gene- ral symptoms, which point out the existence of this state, continue violent; and, especially, when the pulse is still quick, hard, or full; it is abso- lutely necessary to empty the vessels a little more, even though mortification may have begun, par- ticularly, if the patient be young and plethoric. Bleeding, by diminishing the fever, and abating the general heat, is frequently the best means of all. It may then be considered better, than all antiseptics, for stopping the progress of the dis- order. But this evacuation is to be employed with a great deal of circumspection; for, should it be injudiciously resorted to, from the true state of the system not. being understood, the error may be followed by the most fatal conse- quences. It should also be well remembered, that however strongly bleeding may be indicated, the moment is not far off, when this evacuation is totally inadmissible, especially if the mortifica- tion make much progress. In cases of acute mortification, after as much blood has been taken away as may be deemed safe or proper, the other parts of the antiphlogis- tic regimen must be continued, as long as any increased action of the heart and arteries con- tinues. “ The use of purgatives seems to be particularly required in those cases, in which the local inflammatory affection is accompanied with derangement of the digestive and biliary organs. Antimonial diaphoretics are those, from which l should be inclined to expect most advantage in the commencement of the attack ; but, after the inflammatory action has been subdued, opiates, eithernlone, or combined with antimony,or what is 3 Cr 2