3 R SCH SIG .077 |: welling. The spermatic vessels, however, are 1 A 1 . 1 A VA rl I . ■» M ADA ♦ All A 11 t ll O M O m oniewhat enlarged and elongated. All the pa- rents were likewise more or less atfected with •lepbantiasis. Baron Larrey attempts to explain the causes f the complaint in Egypt, hut, as I think, with- ut any degree of success. As the affection is eldom seen in cold countries, climate has cer- ainly a chief effect. Employments which keep ersons a good deal in a sitting posture; the )ose breeches worn by the Egyptians, and the onsequently pendulous state of the scrotum; iseases of the humors, and particularly itchy ustules, on the part, an ordinary consequence f syphilis in that country ; bad regimen ; abuse fvenery; and the immoderate use of the warm ath; are merely conjectures, which will not .ear the test of reasoning. The enormous magnitude, which this sort of ■isease may attain, is almost incredible. The ise, recorded in the Ephemerides German, •eighed about a hundred kilograms, or more lan two hundred weight. Another, described y Larrey, was calculated to weigh about one ~ undred and twenty pounds, and this surgeon kewise saw in Egypt ten, or twelve more in- tances, nearly as large, and all of the same cha- lcter. A very curious example, in which a similar isease affected the labia pudendi in a surprising .egree, is also detailed by Larrey. The woman . as a native of Cairo. In the early stage of the disorder, we may try reparations of antimony combined with sudori- ,'s; drinks acidulated with sulphuric acid, lo- ans containing the same acid, or the oxymuriate f mercury, the oxyde of copper, or the muriate t ammonia. These means are to he assisted by ; gradual, uniform compression of the whole tu- lor. In one case, incisions and the application "caustic, proved of no service, and Larrey very roperly condemns such experiments. When the disease resists every plan tried for s relief, and its increase renders the patient’s fe irksome, and wretched, the extirpation of the jmor with a knife becomes proper. In this pre- ceding, the chief skill consists in doing no injury > the spermatic chords and testicles, which are eneraliy perfectly sound. As the substance of te swelling is not furnished with large Vessels, ic hemorrhage need not be feared. Care must so be taken not to injure the corpora cavernosa mis, and the urethra. After the operation, the :in is to be brought over the exposed testicles, ; much as possible, with adhesive plaster and a indage. M. Delonnes successfully removed the dis- ised mass in the celebrated case of the French linister Delacroix, and Larrey performed the ime operation with success, when he was in igypt. Dr. Titley, of the island of vSt. Chris- >pher, also cutaway such a tumor, which weighed jventy pounds, and the patient, who was a ne- ro, and also affected with elephantiasis, speedily covered. (See Medico-,Chlrurgieal Trans. •t is probable, that some of the eases, which ecur in warm countries, are analogous to the lepbantiasis; but I do not believe, that the raly incrustations, which are represented by /irrey as occurring in the cases, which he saw in Egypt, have been always noticed in the in- stances, which have taken place in colder coun- tries. Nor, indeed, did they take place in the instance recorded by Dr. Titley, the surface of the tumor having been quite smooth. (Larrey Memoires dc Chirurgie Militaire, T. 2, p. 110, cl seq. Richerand Nosographie Chir. T.' 4, p. 314, S(C. Edit. 4. Also Delonnes’ Me- moir. Dr. Chcsions Case, #c. Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6.) SEARCHING. The operation of introdu- cing a metallic instrument, through the urethra into the bladder, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the patient has a stone or not. See Sounding. SETON. (Sctaccum, from seta, a bristle, because horse-hairs were formerly used for keep- ing open the wound.) A kind of issue. It is usually made by means of a particular needle, which is of various breadths, from half an inch to a full inch. The needle is commonly a little curved, but, if straight, it would be better calcu- lated for the purpose. From the point, to its broadest part, it is double-edged, and, behind, it has a transverse eye, through which a skein of thread, or silk, of exactly the same breadth as the needle, is placed. A fold of skin is to be pinched up, at the part where the seton is designed to be made, and the needle is to be pushed through it, together with the skein of thread, which is first dipped in sweet oil. The instrument is not to be introduced too low into the base of the fold, nor too high, near its edge. In the first case, the muscles, and parts, which ought to be avoided, might be wounded; in the second, the interspace be- tween the two wounds would be very narrow, and the seton soon make its way through it. When no seton-needie is at hand, the fold of the skin may be punctured with a lancet, and the skein of thread introduced by means of an eye- probe. A seton may be applied almost to any part of the surface of the body, when circum- stances require it; but, one of its openings should always be made lower than the other, that the matter may readily flow out. The skein of thread is to remain untouched, for a few days after the operation, until the suppuration loosens it. Afterwards the part of the thread, nearest the wound, is to be smeared with oil, white cerate, or any digestive ointment, and drawn under the fleshy interspace between the two wounds, and what was there before is to be cut off. The' se- ton is to be drawn in this manner once, or twice, a day, according as the quantity of matter may require. A new skein of silk, or thread, is to be attached to the preceding one, ns often as ne- cessary. Care is to be taken to keep the thread on the outside of the wound well covered, and free from the discharge, which would make it stiff and hard, and apt to occasion pain and bleed- ing on being drawn into the wound. If the dis- charge should be deficient in quantity, powdered cantnarides may be mixed with the digestive oint- ment. SHINGLES. See Herpes. SIGHT, DEFECTS OF. There are per- sons, who, from their infancy, arc incapable of distinguishing one colour from another. A man, who was affected with this infirmity, could not distinguish green at all. Green and red ap-