624 HERNIA. his opinion. It is particularly remarked by Hes- selbach, that, while a femoral hernia is incom- plete, that is to say, within the outer opening of the passage, through which the parts descend, the disease presents itself as a round firm swelling, on the outer side of which the femoral artery can be felt pulsating : this small hernia may be mis- taken for an inflamed gland, and the case can only be discriminated by the history of its origin and symptoms. {Uebcr den Ur sprung dcr Leisten-und Schenkelbruchc, p. 51.) A fe- moral hernia may be mistaken for a bubonocele, when the expanded part of the swelling lies over Poupart’s ligament. As the taxis and operation for the first case ought to be done differently from those for the latter, the error may lead to very bad consequences. The femoral hernia, however, may always he discriminated, by the neck of the tumor having Poupart's ligament above it. In the bubonocele, the spine of the pubes is behind and below this part of the sac ;' but, in the femoral hernia, it is on the same ho- rizontal level, and a little on the inside of it. (See Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 392, 393, Ed. 3.) In the male subject, “ the crural hernia, in the early stage, (says Scarpa) is situated so deeply in the bend of the thigh, that it is difficult, even in the thinnest persons, to feel its neck, and in examining its circumference with the extremity of the finger, the tendinous margin of the open- ing, through which the parts are protruded, can only be perceived with considerable difficulty. On the contrary, the inguinal hernia, however small it may be, is always less deeply situated; it is about half an inch above the bend of the thigh. In carrying the finger round its neck, the tendinous margin of the inguinal ring can be easily felt at its circumference; and at the pos- terior part of the small tumor, the cord com- posed of the spermatic vessels is distinguishable. When the crural hernia has acquired a consi- derable size, its neck is always deeply situated in the bend of the thigh ; but, its body and fundus assume an oval form, and their great diameter is situated transversely in the bend of the thigh. Whatever may be the size of the inguinal her- nia, it always presents a tumor of a pyramidal form, the base or fundus of which, far from being directed towards the ileum, follows exactly the direction of the spermatic cord, and descends directly into the scrotum. Besides the sym- ptoms, common to all hernial swellings, the crural hernia, when it has attained a certain size, presents some others, which are peculiar to it, such as a sense of stupor and Jicaviness in the thigh, and cedcma of the leg, and even of the foot, of the same side.” The reason, why oedema and numbness of the limb, are particularly re- markable in cases of femoral hernia is justly re- ferred by Ilesselbach, to the circumstance of the femoral vessels and nerves, with numerous lymphatics, taking their course through the crural ring, and, according to his observations, the numbness and cedema are especially great, when the protrusion is omentum, which makes stronger pressure on the vessels and netves, than commonlv happens in a case ot enteiocelc. (P.53.) , “ In women, however, as Scarpa observes, it is less easy to distinguish thecruial herniafrom the inguinal. In fact, the absence of the spermatic cord, and the nearer situation of the ring to the crural arch, may easily occasion a mistake. Sometimes, a woman may even be supposed to Jiave a double crural hernia of the same side, whilst, of these two distinct, though neighbour- ing herniae, one may be inguinal, and the other crural. Arnaud {Mem, de Chir. T. 2, p. 605,) relates an instance of such a mistake.” (Scarpa, Trente dcs Hernies, p. 207, 208.) This interesting writer takes occasion to ob- serve further, upon this part of the subject, that the portion of the inferior pillar of the abdominal ring, which separates this opening from the inter- nal and inferior angle of the crural arch, is so slender in women, that it is sometimes hard to distinguish the crural from the inguinal hernia, which is not the case in male patients. Until a few years ago, the stricture, in cases of femoral hernia, was always supposed to be produced by the lower border of the external oblique muscle, or, as it is termed, Poupart’s li- gament. A total change of opinion on this sub- ject, however, has latterly taken place, in con- sequence of the observations first made by Gim- bernat, in 1768. “ In the crural hernia, (says he) the aperture through which the parts issue, is not formed by two bands, (as in the inguinal hernia) but it is a foramen almost round, pro- ceeding from the internal margin of the crural arch (Poupart’s ligament), near its insertion into the branch of the os pubis, between this bone and the iliac vein ; so that, in this hernia, the branch of the os pubis is situated more internallv than the intestine, and a little behind ; the vein, ex- ternally, and behind; and the internal border of the arch, before. Now it is this border which always forms the strangulation.” (See A new Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia, by Don Antonio dc Gimbcrnat, p. 6. Trans, by Red docs.) The utility of knowing, that it is not Pou- part’s ligament which produces the strangula- tion, in cases of femoral hernia, is important; for we then know, that cutting the lower and outer border of the external oblique muscle, is quite erroneous. This proceeding is the more to be reprobated, because the lower pillar of the abdominal ring, in both sexes, will be divided by directing the incision upward, or upward and in- ward ; and thus the abdominal and crural rings will be made into one common aperture, large enough to make the future occurrence of hernia very likely to happen. In the male, there is also considerable danger of the spermatic cord being cut. Cutting Poupart's ligament ob- liquely outwards, is attended with still more danger ; for the epigastric artery will infallibly be divided at its origin; and with all these ha- zards, the incision must be quite useless, unless carried on to the internal edge of the crural arch. {Gimbcrnat, p. 16.) The inclination, however, of several modern writers to refer the strangulation entirely to Gimbernat's ligament is not sanctioned by the most careful observers, like Ilesselbach and Lan- genbeck, {None Bill. B. 2,p. 132.) The former justly remarks, that a complete femoral hernia may be strangulated in two places, either at the outer or inner opening of the passage, through whiiffi the protrusion happens. Nay, says he,