HERNIA. 617 the foregoing circumstances, has formed a judg- of the fascia covering the sac, some practitioners meat respecting the nature of the hernia, he will introduce a director, and divide this fascia up- be belter qualified to regulate the treatment of ward and downward, as far as the tumor extends, the case. Thus, in the external inguinal hernia, The same manner they next pursue with regard he will know, that the pressure, employed for the to the cremaster muscle. Thus the sac becomes reduction of the bowels, should be made in the completely exposed. When this method is fol- direction of the neck of the hernial sac, viz. ob- lowed, Mr. A. Cooper advises the incisions not liquelv upwards and outwards, towards the ante- to be carried upward, nearer, than one inch, to rior superior spinous process of the ilium ; but, the abdominal ring, for reasons which will be pre- that, when the neck of the same kind of hernia sently explained. is very short, and the posterior side of the ingui- However it may be rationally doubted, whe- nal canal has been removed, the pressure should ther there is any good in these formal and suc- be made nearly in a straight line from before cessive divisions of the whole length of the co- backwards. For what Hesselbach terms the long- verings of the sac; and it is certain, that they necked external inguinal hernia, the pad of a protract the operation very much ; for the man- truss should be so constructed, as not merely to ner, in which the sac adheres to the outer invest- press upon the abdominal ring, but also upon ment of it, prevents the latter from being raised the neck of the sac and the inner opening of the and cut without trouble and delay. As the inguinal canal. But, when the neck of the her- nia is very short, the pad should be nearly of the same form, as that required for an internal in- guinal hernia. (Hesselbach , p. 38 ; and Brun- ainghausen, Gerneinnutziger Unterricht iiber die Bruche, Wurzb. 1811.) In attempting the reduction of an internal inguinal hernia, the pressure should be directed nearly straight back- wards; and the pad of the truss should only act upon the abdominal ring. (Hesselbach, p. 4b.) THE OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED INGUINAL HERNIA, OR BUBONOCELE Consists in dividing 'the integuments; dis- secting down to the sac, and opening it; remo- ving the stricture; and replacing the protruded viscera. The external incision should begin an inch above the external angle of the ring, and extend over the middle of tile tumor to its lower part. The advantage of beginning the wound so high, is to obtain convenient room for the incision of the stricture. By this first cut, the external pudic branch of the femoral artery may be di- vided ; it crosses the hernial sac near the abdo- minal ring, and sometimes bleeds so freely, as to require to be immediately tied. In general, however, a ligature is unnecessary. ' When this incision is carried low down, the caution, given by Camper, should always be re- membered, viz. that there is a possibility of di- viding the spermatic vessels, should they happen to be situated, as they sometimes are, in front of the hernia. And, in order to avoid such an ac- cident, which is particularly apt to occur in cases of internal inguinal, or scrotal hernia, the inci- sion through the skin should be made obliquely downwards and inwards. (Hesselbach, p. 40'.) The division of the integuments brings into view' the fascia, which is sent off from the tendon of the external oblique muscle, and covers the her- nial sac. The layers of tendinous fibres, cellular sub- stance, &c. intervening between the skin and sac, should be carefully divided, one after an- other, with the knife and dissecting forceps, the edge of the former instrument being turned hori- zontally, lest the incisions be carried too deeply at once, and the viscera contained in the sac wounded. Alter making a small opening through a part grand object, after the skin has been divided, is to make a small opening into the sac, sufficient for the introduction of a director, dissecting down at one particular place, answers every pur- pose, and enables us, in the end, to lay open the whole of the sac and its coverings in the shortest time. Let the operator only take care to raise the successive layers of fibres with the forceps, and divide the apex of each elevated portion with the knife held horizontally. As there is commonly a quantity of fluid in the sac, and it gravitates to the lower part, to which place the intestine seldom quite descends ; this is certainly the safest situation for making the first opening into the sac. The operator, however, should not rely upon the oresence of such fluid, and cut too boldly ; for sometimes it is absent, and the vis- cera may be in immediate contact with, nay, ad- herent to, the inner surface of the sac. The circular arrangement of the vessels of a piece of intestine, and its smooth polished sur- face, sufficiently distinguish it from the hernial sac, which has a rough cellular surface, and is always connected with the surrounding parts, al- though these adhesions, in a very recent case, may be but slight. (Lawrence on Raptures, p. 214, Edit. 3.) I have mentioned, that Mr. A. Cooper only advises cutting the fascia, and other coverings of the sac, under the skin, to within an inch of the abdominal ring; and, of course, he also recom- mends limiting the division of the sac itself to the same extent. Ilis reasons, for this practice, are to avoid making the closure of the w'ound more difficult, and to lessen the danger of peri- toneal inflammation. Having laid open the hernial sac, with a probe-pointed bistoury, guided "by a director, or the fore-finger, introduced into the opening, made at the lower part of the sac, the next desi- deratum is to divide the stricture, unless the viscera admit of being easily reduced, without such an incision being made, as occasionally happens. From, the anatomical account, which has been given of the bubonocele, it appears, that the stricture may either be situated at the abdominal ring, and be formed by the margins of this open- ing, or else at the inner aperture of the canal, about one inch and a half, in a direction upward and outward, from the outer opening in the ten- don of the external oblique muscle. This latter strangulation is caused by the semicircular edge