11B EMPYEMA. very fatiguing cough, which is sometimes dry, sometimes attended with expectoration. (Boyer, Tniiie de.s Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. 356.) No surgical writer, with whom I am ac- quainted, has treated, with more discrimination, than Mr. Samuel Sharp, of the symptoms pro- duced by collections of matter in the chest. He remarks, that it has been almost universally taught, that, when a fluid is extravasated in the thorax, the patient can only lie on the diseased side, the weight of the incumbent fluid on the mediastinum becoming troublesome, if he places himself on the sound side. For the same reason, when there is fluid in both cavities of the tho- rax, the patient finds it most easy to lie on his back, or to lean forwards, in order that the fluid may neither press upon the mediastinum, nor the diaphragm. But, it is noticed by Mr. Sharp, that, however true this doctrine may prove in most instances, there are a few, in which, notwithstanding the extravasation, the patient does not complain of more inconvenience in one posture, than another, nor even of any great dif- ficulty of breathing. (See Le Dran's Obs. 217, and Marchetti, 65.) On this account, observes Mr. Sharp, it is sometimes less easy to determine, when the ope- ration is requisite, than if we had so exact a cri- terion, as we are generally supposed to have. But, says he, though this maybe wanting, there are some other circumstances, which will gene- rally guide us with a reasonable certainty. He states, that the most infallible symptom of a large quantity of fluid in one of the cavities of the thorax, is a preternatural expansion of that side of the chest, where it lies ; for, in propor- tion as the fluid accumulates, it will necessarily elevate the ribs on that side, and prevent them from contracting so much in expiration as the ribs on the other side. This change is said to be most evident, when the surgeon views the back of the chest. (Boyer, Vcl. cit. p. 357.) Mr. Sharp also refers to Le Dran’s Obs. 211, vol. 1, in order to prove, that the pressure of the fluid on the lungs may sometimes be so great, as to make them collapse, and almost totally obstruct their function. When, therefore, says Mi’. Sharp, the thorax becomes thus ex- panded, after a previous pulmonary disorder, and the case is attended with the symptoms of a suppuration, it is probably owing to a collection of matter. The patient, he observes, will also labour under a continual low fever, and a par- ticular anxiety from the load of fluid. Besides this dilatation of the cavity by an ac- cumulation of the fluid, the patient will be sen- sible of an undulation, which is sometimes so evident, that a bystander can plainly hear it in certain motions of the body. Mr. Sharp adds, that this was the case with a patient of his own, on whom he performed the operation ; but, the fluid in this instance, he says, was very thin, being a serous matter, rather than pus. Some- times, when the practitioner applies his ear close to the patient’s chest, while this is agitated, a noise can be heard, like that produced by shaking a small cask, not quite full of water. (See Dr. Archer’s Cose in Trans, of the Fellows, &;c. of the King's und Queen’s College of Physicians in Ire- land, Vol. 2, p. 2.) In this instance* the fluid resembled vVhey. According to the same author, it will also fre- quently happen, that though the skin and inter- costal muscles are not inflamed, they will be- come cedematous in certain parts of the thorax; or, if they are not cedematous, they will be a little thickened; or, as Boyer states, the inter- costal spaces are widened, and, when the em- pyema is considerable, instead of being depressed, as they are in thin persons, they project beyond the level of' the ribs. (Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. 357.) ; These symptoms, joined with the enlargement j of the thorax, and the preceding affection of the I pleura, or lungs, seem unquestionably to indi- : cate the propriety of the operation. But, ob- j serves Mr. Sharp, amongst other motives to re- I commend it upon such an emergency, this is : one, that if the operator should mistake the case, an incision of the intercostal muscles would ! neither be very painful, nor dangerous. (See - Critical Inquiry into the present State oj Surgery, • sect, on Empyema.) “ The difficulty of lying on the side, opposite to the collection of pus,” says Le D ran, “is always accounted a sign of an empyema. This sign, indeed, is in the affirmative; but, the want of it does not prove the negative; because, when ■ there is adhesion of the lungs to the medias- tinum, the patient may lie equally on both sides.” a (Le Dran’s Ohs. p. 108, Edit. 2.) The ex- planation of this circumstance, offered by Le Dran, is, that when the cyst, in which the mat- f ter is contained, is between the mediastinum and the lungs, the mediastinum gradually yields to \\ the volume of the pus, in proportion as it is formed, and the cyst in which it is contained be- ' j comes dilated; “ whence habitude becomes a i second nature.” Whereas, in an empyemal 1)1 person, in whom the lung is not adherent to f I the mediastinum, and who lies on the side oppo- I site to that, on which the collection of pus is j situated, the mediastinum is on a sudden loaded • j with an unusual weight of fluid. (P. 111.) Richerand contends, that the difficulty off j breathing, which patients with extravasated fluid ! j in the chest experience in lying upon the side, * j opposite to that on which the disease is situated, j I never originates, as has been commonly taughtH and believed, from the fluid pressing upon thet., mediastinum and opposite Jung. “I have (saysHi he) produced artificial cases of hydrothorax, by ; injecting water into the thorax of several dead f subjects, through a wound made in the side, i This experiment can only be made on subjects, ; in which the lungs are not adherent to the pari- etes of the chest. In this way, from three to four pints of water were introduced. I then t cautiously opened the opposite side of the chest: |1 the ribs and lungs being removed, the mediasti- i num could be distinctly seen, reaching from the My vertebrae to the sternum, and supporting, with- ft out yielding, the weight of the liquid, in whit- i ever position the body was placed. “ It is evident, then, that patients, with tho- jj racic extravasations, lie on the diseased side, in \ order not to obstruct the dilatation of the sound | side of the respiratory organs, one part of which ) is already in a state of inaction. It is I°r P same reason, and in order not to increase th< . pain by the tension of the inflamed pleura, tM pleuritic patients lie on the diseased side. TW f same thing is observable in peripneumony; 11,1 IR ,