64 AMPUTATION. loosened, and the flap laid over the stump. The wound was dressed with lycoperdon, lint, and tow, over which was put a bladder, sustained by strips of sticking-plaster. Upon this bladder was placed an instrument, called a retinaculum, con- sisting of a compress, and a concave plate, which were made to press upon the stump, by means of two straps, that crossed each other, and were at- tached to the broad leather strap surrounding the thigh. In 1702, Sabourin, an able surgeon at Geneva, gave an account of Verduin’s practice to the Koval Academy of Sciences, which, however, declined to pronounce any judgment about it, without further experience. Though this method <pf amputation was ob- jected to by Konerding, in a tract published at Am- sterdam in 1705, it was afterwards highly ex- tolled by P. Massuet, on account of the quick- ness with which the stump healed, the safety with which the flap served for the stoppage of the hemorrhage, and the avoidance of exfoliation by the non-exposure of the bone. He also dwelt upon the excellency of the stump for the applica- tion of an artificial foot. (De l’Amputation a lambeau, 8vo. Paris, 1756.) Heister disapproved of the flap amputation, because it appeared to him, that the irritation of the flesh by the projecting bones was apt to cause pain and inflammation: he operated himself after the manner of Dionis, and was strongly in favour of the use of ligatures. Some excellent precepts were delivered by J. L. Petit concerning amputation. He improved the tourniquet; and, instead of the large crooked am- putating knife, formerly employed, first brought into use the straight more moderate-sized knives with sharp backs, now seen in the hands of the best surgeons, because much better calculated than crooked knives, for dividing the flesh by a sawing movement, which is the only right and surgical way of attempting to cut any part of the human body. He proved that making the di- vision in the mortified parts was frequently fol- lowed by hemorrhage; and for the suppression of bleeding he thought it the best principle to pro- mote the formation of a coagulum. (Mem. de l'Acad, des Sciences, an 1732, p. 285. See Hemorrhage.) For compressing the vessels, he employed an instrument, which covered the stump, like Verduin’s retinaculum, and made pressure by means of a screw. His only objec- tion to Verduin’s method was, that the exten- sion of gangrene up the limb frequently hindered the formation of so large a flap. He laid down the valuable general maxim of always removing as much bone, and as little flesh, as possible; for which purpose, he invented what is termed the double incision, or dividing the business of cutting through the soft parts into two stages. About an inch higher than the place where he meant to saw through the bones, he first made the circular cut through the integuments down to the muscles; the skin was then pulled up so as to leave the flesh uncovered to the extent of an inch, and the muscles were now divided at the highest point of their exposure. Lastly, the flesh ■was held out of the way with a retractor, and the bone was sawn through high enough up to allow of its extremity being well covered with flesh and integuments. The greatest defect in the doc- trines of Petit, relative to amputation, was the confidence he put in pressure, instead of the liga- ture. (Traite des Malad. Chic. vol. 3 J). 120.) The first performance of amputation at the shoulder-joint, by Le Dran, and the improve- ments and alterations of that operation sug- gested by Garerjgeot, De la Faye, Desault, &c. I shall notice in a future section. In chronological order, the next event, claim- ing notice, in the history of amputation, was the promulgation of an opinion by T. It. Gagnier, that Verduin’s flap-amputation might be traced back to times of great antiquity, the method de- scribed by Celsus being very similar. (Haller, Diss. Chir. vol. 5. p. 161.) On this point, with reference to Lowdham, the true inventor of the flap-operation, I. have already delivered my own sentiments. The flap-amputation of the leg, after Verduin’s manner, was tried by De la Faye, who found . that the pressure of the flap was not enough to check bleeding from all the vessels, as it only operated on the anterior tibial artery, and, by pressing the flesh more firmly against the end of the bones, he thought the risk of mortification would be occasioned. Verduin, and Sabourin, as we have seen, made only one flap. Two French surgeons, Ravaton and Vermale, afterwards thought, that it would be better to save a flap from each side of the limb. They were also advocates for tying the vessels, and bringing the two flaps into contact, so as to pro- cure their speedy union, and prevent exfoliations and profuse suppuration. However, there is some difference in their methods of forming the flaps. Ravaton, who sub- mitted his plan to the French Academy in 1739, made three deep incisions down to the bone; first, a circular one, with a crooked knife, within four finger-breadths of the bone intended to be sawn; and then with a somewhat larger knife; the two others perpendicularly to the first, one at the fore part, and the other at the back of the limb; and, taking care not to touch the principal vessels, he detached.the two flaps from the bona Vermale formed the separate flaps by two inci- sions. After applying the tourniquet, he sur- rounded the part with two red threads, at the di- stance of four finger-breadths from each other; one at the place where the bone was to be sawn; the other at the place where the incision of the flaps was to terminate. He afterwards thrust a long bistoury down to the bone, at the forepart of the limb; turned it round the circumference, so that it might come out at the opposite part; then directing the edge of the knife along the bone, he cut down to the inferior thread, where he separated the first flap, which, as the author says, was of a round or conical figure at its extremity. The second flap was made in a similar way on the interior side of the member. (Traite des Plapes d’Armes a J'cu, par Ravaton, 8do. Paris, 1750; De la Faijr, in Mem. de l’ Acad, de Chir. T. 5, ed. 12 mo. Vermale, Obs. de Chir. 8vo. Manheim 1767.) In presence of M. Quesnay, Garengeot per- formed the flap amputation according to the method of Verduin and Sabourin. We know, that they made no ligature on the vessels, and that their intention was, that the flap, when ap- plied to the stump, and sustained by a particular apparatus, should reunite, and stop all bleeding.