740 JOINTS. ficacy to the maintenance of a purulent discharge from the vicinity of the diseased part. Though my own observations have led me to think issues and blisters as efficient, as any means hitherto devised for stopping the progress of scrophulous disease of the heads of the bones, I am far from meaning to say, that such disease can generally be stopped by these, or any other remedies, local or general. Mr. Brodie has sel- dom known any benefit derived from blisters, or stimulating liniments; nor has he seen the same degree of good produced by issues in scrophulous cases, as in examples of primary ulceration of the cartilages. Cold evaporating lotions in the early stage of the complaint; perfect quietude of the joint; attention to the patient’s health ; and riding in a carriage in the fresh air ; are the means, which this gentleman particularly recom- mends in scrophulous diseases of the joints During the formation of abscesses, he approves of fomentations and poultices. (Pathol. Obs. p. 242.) We have noticed the efficacy of friction, in ex- citing the action of the absorbents, by which the thickened state of parts around the affected joint may be considerably lessened, and, on this prin- ciple, the utility of dry-rubbing arises. We have now to notice the method of producing the same effect by pressure, a plan, which yet seems to merit a more extensive trial. I have seen in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, a few cases, in which the swelling . of the joints was materially diminished, by encircling the morbid articulations with strips of adhesive plaster, applied with mo- derate tightness. A somewhat similar plan, though its modus operandi is differently accounted for, appears also to have been tried in France. “ J’ai dans quel- ques occasions (says Richerand) obtenu les plus grands avantages de l’application d’un taffetas cire autour de 1’articulation tumefiee. On coupe un morceau de cette etoffe, assez large pour en- velopper la totalite de la tumeur; on enduit les bords d’une gomme dissoute dans le vinaigre, et susceptible de la faire adherer intimement a la peau ; on 1’applique ensuite de maniere que tout l’acees soit interdit a l’air entre lui et les tegu- ments. Lorsqu’au bout de quelques jours on leve cet appareil, on trouve la peau humide, ra- mollie par l’humeur dela transpiration condensee en goutelettes ii la surface interieure du taffetas. Dans ceprocede, on etablit un esptce de bain de vapeur autour de l’articulation malade.” (iVb- mgr. Chir. T. 55, p. 17 5, Edit. 2.) My friend, the late Mr. Clement Wilson Cruttwell, of Bath, sent me a very excellent case, illustrative of the efficacy of treatment by pres- sure. He remarks, that, “ After cupping the part, and endeavouring to quiet the inflamma- tion, I used blisters; but they excited such in- tolerable pain, and produced so great a degree of swelling and inflammation, that I was under the necessity of healing them immediately. After two months strict confinement to bed, and the use of leeches and refrigerant washes, the in- flammation having again subsided, and the pain being removed, I again ventured to apply one small blister, and again a similar attack of pain, swelling, and inflammation, was produced. The joint became distended with fluid, of which, it had always contained a large quantity, and the irritation of the constitution was excessive. By the liberal use of opium, I orice more succeeded in quieting the disturbance, and, convinced cf the hazard of using blisters in sucb a subject, I applied moderate pressure, by means of a roller, together with a wash, containing a large propor- tion of spirit, in order to keep up a constant evaporation. The skin, which was before much inflamed, and hard, has become natural and flac- cid, the pain has ceased, the swelling has di- minished, and I have every prospect of effecting a cure, with the preservation of tolerably free motion in the joint.” Mr. Cruttwell, in a subsequent letter, informed me, that this case got completely well, by the treatment with pressure, and had remained so for upwards of six months, under full and free exercise. This example clearly evinces the impropriety of using blisters in certain constitutions. In some remarks, annexed to the above case, Mr. Crutt- well expresses his conviction, that absolute rest, cold applications, and pressure, would succeed in very many cases, without local counter-irrita- tion. Pressure, he adds, succeeds best, when fluid is effused, and the disease is indolent; but, he is convinced, that it may be used with advan- tage in later stages, when abscesses have formed, and sinuses already exist; and he reminds me, how very serviceable continued pressure is to the scrophulous finger-joints of children. The good effects of pressure in scrophulous cases are confirmed by the observations of Mr. Brodie: when, says he, after several abscesses have taken place, the tendency to suppuration has ceased, and the swollen joint has become di- minished, anchylosis is probably disposed to take place. At this period, pressure, by means of strips of linen, spread with soap-cerate, pr some other moderately adhesive plaster, and applied in a circular manner round the limb, will be pro- ductive of benefit. (Pathol. and Surg. Obx. p. 243.) When the knee is affected, the limb has a tend- ency to become permanently bent. It must undoubtedly be judicious to prevent this position, by means of splints, which will also serve to prevent all motion of the diseased joint, an object of the very highest importance. Were the dis- ease to end in anchylosis, the advantage of hav- ing the limb in a state of extension need scarcely be mentioned. In cuses which commence in the cancellous structure of the heads of the bones, it seems rational to combine, with the local treatment, the employment of such internal remedies, ns have been known to do good in other scrophulous diseases. “ It is to be supposed, (as Mr. Brodie observes) that the air of a crowded city must be more or less unfavourable; and that a residence on the sea-coast is likely to be more beneficial, than a residence in the country elsewhere. 'I he patient should live on a nourishing, but plain diet; he should be in the open air in summer, as much as he can, without exercising the joint. His mode of life should, in all respects, be re- gular and uniform.” Mr. Brodie has found more benefit, derived from the long use of steel medicines, than any others, suspending their use, *