IIERNIA. 625 that the strangulation is sometimes caused by the outer opening was known to former surgeons, for tliev remarked, that the constriction was re- moved bv dividing the iascia. (/ . 5.1.) And, in addition "to these two modes of strangulation is to be enumerated a third, in which the viscera are constricted by protruding through some weaker point, or accidental opening, in the ante- rior parietes of the crural canal; (Hcsselbach, it. 48; also Langcnbeck, Op. cit. p. 132), or even through an aperture in the inner side of this passage, as we find depicted in the twentieth plate of Langenbeck's treatise, “ De Structura Peritonaei.” I know of no surgical writer, who has given a clearer account of the anatomy of the femoral her- nia, than Langenbeck (Nime Bib!. B. 2,p. 112, <$r.) He observes, that when the dissection is begun at the inside of the inguinal region, the following circumstances are noticed: after the removal of the peritonaeum from the abdominal muscles, and from the psoas, iliacus internus, and the great vessels, the inner surface of the trans- versalis still has an investment, which Cloquet terms the fascia transversails, and which is al- ways a white glistening aponeurosis. From the place, where the femoral artery lies under Pou- part’s ligament, to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the preceding fascia is extended in a strong fibrous form behind the inner surface of Poupart’s ligament, and a thin continuation of it is extended over the iliacus internus and psoas muscles, where it is named by Mr. A. Cooper and Cloquet thc. fascia iliaca The fascia of the transverse muscle closes the belly behind Pou- part’s ligament, as completely as the peritonaeum does, so that between the femoral artery and the anterior superior spine of the ilium none of the bowels can protrude, which occurrence is still further prevented t>v the fascia lata, which below Poupart’s ligament is closely attached to the muscles of the thigh. By the pelvis being thus shut up, the origin of a crural hernia on the out- side of the femoral vessels is rendered quite im- possible. (Langcnbeck, op. cit.) This part of the explanation very nearly resembles that de- livered by Mr. A. Cooper, except that the latter describes the iliac fascia, and not what Cloquet calls the transverse fascia, as closing the pelvis from the spine of the ilium to the crural vessels. But, this difference is easily accounted for by the circumstance of Mr. A. Cooper extending the name fascia iliaca beyond the limits given it by Cloquet and Langenbeck. Near the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, Langenbeck remarks that the fascia of the transverse muscle has some strong fibres, which proceed inwards under the internal open- ing of the inguinal canal, of which they form, as it were, the bottom, and are named by Ilesscl- baeh the internal inguinal ligament. They go over the femoral artery and vein, are connected above with the fascia of the transverse muscle, and below are continued into the fascia of the psoas and iliac muscles-. Where these fibres pass over the femoral vessels, they expand into a firm aponeurosis, which passing downwards, is inti- mately attached at the inner side of the femoral vc,n to fi,e horizontal branch of the os pubis, close to the symphysis, and then joins the apo- neurosis of the recti muscles. The expanded portion of the foregoing tendinous fibres, thus continued along the crista of the os pubis to the sheath of the rectus, forms the inner surface ot Gimbernat's or the femoral, or crural ligament. The inner edge of this ligament is falciform, and concave, the concavity being turned towards the femoral vein. Now where the fascia of the transverse muscle extends downwards, on the outer side of the crural artery, to the fascia of the psoas and iliac muscles, so as to close the pelvis between that vessel, and the anterior su- perior spinous process of the ilium, it also forms, like Gimbernat’s ligament, a falciform edge, the concavity of which lies close over the external convexity of the crural artery. Thus, partly by the concave edge of Gimbernat’s ligament, di- rected towards the crural vein, and partly by the concave edge of the extension of tlie fascia of the transverse muscle to the fascia iliaca, which edge is turned towards the crural artery, an aper- ture is produced, through which the femoral ves- sels pass out of the pelvis. This opening is named by Cloquet the upper opening of the crural canal, or, as many English surgeons would say, of the crural or femoral ring. By Hesselbaeh, it is called the internal opening for the femoral vessels However, as these vessels do not lie loosely and unconnectedly in this aperture, the opening itself is shut up, as it were, and cannot be seen without dissection. On the above described fasciae, there is a con- siderable quantity of cellular substance, which covers the vessels in the pelvis, forms a sort of sheath for the crural artery and vein, and accom- panies these vessels through the inner opening of the crural canal, or ring, which is itself accu- rately shut up by it. When this cellular sub- stance is removed, the white glistening fasciae are plainly seen passing through the same open- ing, and coming nearer together in a funnel-like manner. Where the fascia of the transverse muscle forms the outer falciform edge of this aperture, and is passing over the arteria cireum- ffexa ilii to the psoas and iliac muscles, it sends off'through the opening a process, which Becomes connected with the outer side of the crural canal, or ring: while from the internal inguinal liga- ment, which lies above this opening, and consti- tutes the upper edge of the inner aperture of the crural canal, a production is sent, which is con- nected with the anterior side of this canal. As for the posterior and inner sides, they have a connexion with the fasciae of the psoas and leva- tor ani. When the groin is externally dissected, in order to have a view of the crural ring or canal, on the outside of the pelvis, the following ap- pearances present themselves: after the removal of the common integuments, one finds below Poupart’s ligament, a quantity of fat, glands, lymphatics, veins, and arteries, which vessels come out through small openings in the fascia lata. As soon as the outer surface of the ex- ternal oblique muscle is cleared, Its aponeurosis is found to'becomc stronger at the anterior su- perior spinous process of the ilium, and its fibres to collect together, and assume the form of a band, which is Poupart’s ligament, called by Hes- selbacli the external inguinal ligament, and by Gimbernat, Cloquet, and others, the crural arch. This ligament, as is well known, passes obliquely - 5 S