802 MERCURY. The matter is sometimes contained in one cyst, or cavity ; sometimes in several; but the abscess generally breaks near the nipple. As all inflammations of the mamma are at- tended with considerable induration, these cases should be carefully distinguished from other swellings of a more incurable kind. It is said, that scrophulous tumors of the mamma, which have existed a long while, often disappear after the occurrence of a milk abscess. Women who have never been pregnant are sometimes affected with suppuration in the breast, supposed by Mr. James, of Exeter, to be connected with uterine, or gastric disorder. Even men are said to be liable to similar complaints. In the early period of the affection, resolution should be attempted. The following arc the principal means for this purpose:—topical blood- letting, saline purges, low diet, keeping the in- flamed breast from hanging down, gentle friction of the breast, with a soft sponge, wet with some warm emollient liquor; having the milk tenderly sucked out at proper intervals; saturnine appli- cations, or lotions containing the muriate of ammonia. When matter cannot be prevented from form- ing, an emollient poultice is the best'application, and the abscess should in general be allowed to break of itself, unless of a somewhat chronic nature, in which case, it should be opened in a depending part with a lancet. Sinuses some- times form, in consequence of abscesses in the breast, and will not heal till freely opened with a director and curved bistoury. When the cavity of the abscess begins to fill up with granulations, the poultice may be left off, and superficial dress- ings applied. The indurations, often remaining in the breast, in consequence of acute inflammation and ab- scesses, generally yield to frictions with cam- phorated mercurial ointment, the application of a piece of soap plaster, and the exhibition of calo- mel, cicuta, and other alteratives. Mr. Hey describes a very deep-seated abscess of the breast, not of frequent occurrence, and not confined to pregnant nor suckling women. Its situation renders all superficial applications ineffectual. The inflammatory stage is tedious; and when the matter has made its way outward, the discharge continues, and there is no tendency to healing. Sometimes the matter lodges behind the mamma, as well as in the substance of the gland, and breaks out in different places, the intermediate parts of the breast feeling as if af- fected with a scirrhous hardness. There are numerous sinuses running in different directions, and, when opened, a soft purple fungus appears within them. The disease goes on in this state, for a long while, keeping up hectic symptoms. Mr. Hey’s practice is to trace the course of all the numerous sinuses, and lay them open, and, unless this be done, with respect to every one of them, the cure cannot be accomplished. If he finds any two sinuses running in such di- rections, that when fully opened, they leave a small part of the mamma in a pendulous state, he removes such part entirely. As the sinuses are filled with fungus, their continuations present no visible cavity, and can only be detected by the greater softness of parts of the wound, where, on breaking down the fungus, the orifice of the collateral sinus may be found. Mr. Hey has found, that even in the most unfavourable sub- jects the wounds heal quickly, and the natural shape of th0 breast is preserved. Consult Pearson s Principles of Surgery, chap. 3. lley's Practical Observations, p. 504. Kirkland has also treated of several kinds of abscesses of the breast in his Inquiry into the present State of Medical Surgery, Vol. 2, p. 161. Culliscns Systcma Chirurgice Ilodiernac, Vol. l,p.33r2. Gibbons,DeMulicbnnnMammis cl Mor bis quibusobnoxioe sunt, 8 vo. Edinb. 1775. J. Clubbc, Treatise on the Inflammation of the Breasts peculiar to Lying-in Women, fyc. Son. Ipswich, 1799. M. Underwood, Treatise upon Ulcers, S[c., and on the Mammary Abscess, i‘j c. 8vo. Land. 1783. J. II. James, on the Prin- ciples of Inflammation,p. 171,8 vo. Lond. 1821. Boyer, Traitedcs Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. 211, fyc. 8vo. Paris, 1821. The German reader may re- fer to Richter's Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 4, chap. 16. MELICERIS. (from pihi, honey, and xap'-j, wax.) A tumor cf the encysted kind, filled with a substance resembling wax, or honey, in con- sistence. (See Tumors, Encysted.) MENINGOPHYLAX. (from pwyf, a membrane, and yvXaccw, to guard.) An instru- ment, used by the ancients for guarding the dura mater and brain from injury, in their mode of trepanning. It seems to have been something like the lenticular, only its blade was completely round, without an edge. It ended in a lenti- form cup, like the latter. (Encyclopedic ]\To- il todi (pic, Partic Chirurgicalc.) Pott gives an engraving of a meningophylax, which re- sembles a common elevator. (See Vol. 1. of his Works.) MERCURY. (Quicksilver. Merciirius. Hydrargyrus.) The medicinal virtues of this mineral were almost totally unknown to the an- cients, who considered it as a poison. It was first employed for purposes of medicine by the Arabians, who made use of it in the form of ointments for the cure of certain diseases of the skin and the killing of vermin. In modern times, mercury is one of the most important articles of the materia medica; and though perhaps recent investigations will not strictly allow it to be re- garded as a specific for the venereal disease, which may be cured by other means, or some- times even spontaneously, while mercury, so far from being always a certain cure, is sometimes highly detrimental, yet notwithstanding these facts, mercury still retains the character of being generally the most expeditious means of relief. The possibility of curing the venereal disease without mercury, by no means establishes the propriety of abandoning this remedy, any more than its unfitness for certain states of the same disease is a reason for not availing ourselves of its superior utility in others. Mercury, taken into the)stomach in its metal- lic state, has no action on the body, except what arises from its weight or bulk. It is not poison- ous, as was vulgarly supposed, but perfectly inert. But, in its various states of combination, it produces certain sensible effects. It is a power- ful and general stimulant, quickening the cir- culation, and increasing all the secretions and excretions. According to circumstances, the