EYE. each other, while they are in reality of a totally different nature, are prevented from being con- founded together. Now when Scarpa even goes further than Bichat, and asserts, that in twenty- tour individuals, affected with xchat is called car- cinoma of the eye, twenty of those, at least, are children under twelve years of age, this declara- tion, considered with the acknowledged propen- sity of cancer, on all other occasions, to attack old, rather than young subjects, might have re- mained a mysterious anomaly in the history of disease, had not the valuable investigations of Mr. Wardrop proved beyond all doubt, that the afflicting disease, which rendered it necessary for so many young subjects to undergo a severe operation, was not true cancer, but what is now' denominated by modern surgeons, fungus heema- todes. (Obs. on Fungus Hoematodes. 8 vo. Edinb. 1809.) As Scarpa observes, this author has af- forded a solution of the question, by shewing, from careful observation, founded on pathological anatomy, that the morbid change of structure in the eyeball of a child, commonly called carcino- ma, is not in reality produced by cancer, but by another species of malignant fungus, to which the epithet, haematodes, is applied; a disease, indeed, equally and, with regard to the eye, more formidable and fatal, than cancer, but distinguish- ed from it by peculiar characters, which, not being confined to age, sex, or part of the body, attacks the eyeball both of the infant and adult. (Scarpa, Trans, by Briggs, P. 502. Ed. 2.) According to Scarpa, and, indeed, the senti- ments of several other surgeons of the present day, cancer is always preceded by scirrhus, or a morbid induration of the part affected. As the disorganization increases in this hard scirrhous substance, an ichorous fluid is formed in cells within it, and afterwards extends towards the ex- ternal surface of the tumor, causing ulceration of the investing parts. The compact and apparently fibrous mass is then converted into a malignant fungous ulcer, of a livid, or cineritious colour, with edges everted, and irregularly excavated, and with a discharge of acrid, offensive sanies. The schirrus, composing the base of the malig- nant fungus, instead of increasing in size, now rather diminishes, but retains all its original hard- ness, and, after rising a certain way above the ul- cerated surface, is destroyed at various points by the same ulcerative process, from which it origi- nated. And, if any part of the livid fungous sore seem disposed to heal, it is a deceitful ap- pearance, as, in a little time, the smooth points are again attacked by ulceration. To relate in this place all the differences, between cancer and fungus haematodes of the eye, would be super- fluous, as the subject is considered in a future article (See Fungus Hasma lodes) ; but, I may briefly advert to a few remarkable points of diver- sity; 1st. The primary origin of fungus haema- todes is generally in the retina, especially, that point at which the optic nerve enters the cavity of the eye. 2dly. True cancer of the eyeball, when it begins on any part of the organ itself, instead of commencing as fungus haematodes at the deep- est part of the eye, originates on its surface in the conjunctiva; and, as far as present evidence extends, if we except the lachrymal gland, this membrane is the only texture, connected with the *yc, ever primarily affected with carcinoma. [ Scarpa on Discuses of the Eye, p. 52U, Ed. 'J; 339 and Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eyr, P.99.) 3dly. Cancer of the eye, as Scarpa truly observes, is less destructive than fungus hoematodes, and that for two important reasons. In the first place, because carcinoma begins on the exterior parts of the eye, so that whatever relates to the origin and formation of the disease is open to observation; and secondly, because the can- cerous fungus of the eye, on its first appearance, is not actually malignant, but becomes so in pro- cess of time, or from improper treatment, pre- viously to which period good surgery may be employed with effect In this light, Scarpa views many excrescences on the conjunctiva and anterior hemisphere of the eye, which appear in consequence of a staphyloma of the cornea, long exposed to the air and ulceration; those which arise from relaxation and chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva; from ulceration of the cornea, neglected or improperly treated ; from violent ophthalmy, not of a contagious nature, treated in the acute stage with astringent and irritating ap- plications ; from suppuration of the eye, rupture of the cornea, and wasting of the eyeball; or from blows, or burns on the part. Nothing, says Scarpa, is more probable, than that all these ulcerated fungi were, on their first appearance, not of malignant character, or certainly not can- cerous, and that many of them were not actually so at the time of a successful operation being done. Now, in the opinion of the same valuable author, there is no criterion as yet known of the precise time, when a sarcoma of the eye changes from the state of a common ulcerated fungus to that of carcinoma; for, the exquisite sensibility, darting pains, rapidity of growth, colour, and ichorous discharge, are not an adequate proof of cancer. The symptom, however, on which he is inclined to place the greatest dependence, as a mark of the change in question, is the almost cartilaginous hardness of the malignant ulcerated fungus, which induration, he asserts, is not met with in the benign fungus, and never fails to pre- cede the formation of cancer. (See Scarpa on the Eye, Trmisl. by Briggs, Ed. 2, p. 511 — 513.) 4thly. The last difference of fungus haema- todes from cancer of the eye, here to be noticed, is the pulpy softness of the whole of the diseased mass, in the first of these diseases; a character, completely opposite to the firm almost cartilagi- nous consistence of the carcinomatous fungus. Before describing the operation of removing an eye, affected with malignant disease, the fol- lowing corollaries, drawn by Scarpa, should be recollected. 1. The complete extirpation of the eye, for the cure of fungus haematodes, although performed on the first appearance of the disease under the form of a yellowish spot, deeply seated in the eye, is useless, and rather accelerates the death of the patient. 2. The exterior fungous excrescence of the eye, commonly called carcinoma, beginning on the conjunctiva, and anterior hemisphere, while it is soft, flexible, and pulpy, although accom- panied with symptoms, similar to those ol carci- noma, is not actually this disease, nor does it be- come malignant, and strictly canceroils, until it is rigid, hard, coriaceous, ivartfi, and, in every respect, scirrhous, 3. The inveterate fungous excrescence, hard to the touch in all its parts, covered with ulcerated