100G SURGERY. were continually employed ; and the actual cau- tery was in such frequent use, that at the times, when the surgeons visited the hospital, it was regularly heated, and prepared as a part of the necessary apparatus. Where shall we find more sensible, or more truly practical observations on the treatment of abscesses, than in his excellent treatise on the fistula in ano ? Where shall wc meet with better remarks on the local treatment of gangrenous parts, than in his valuable tract on the mortification of the toes and feet? What author abounds with so many just observations on the injuries of the head, blended it is true with rather too great a partiality to the trepan, the so frequent necessity for which is now less generally acknowledged ? His description of the inflammation and suppuration of the dura mater, and of the treatment, is matchless. The account, which he has left us of the disease of the verte- brae, attended with paralysis of the limbs, is per- haps his most original production. His cele- brated essay on fractures, was also very original, and has had in this country considerable influ- ence over the treatment of these injuries ; but, there can now be no doubt, that the effects of position were exaggerated in this part of his writings, and that surgeons ought still to make every possible exertion to render their apparatus for broken bones more effectual. (See Frac- tures.) A more really valuable production of this eminent surgeon is his remarks on amputa- tion. The necessity for that operation in cer- tain cases is there convincingly detailed ; and the most advantageous period for its performance clearly indicated. The urgency for its prompt ex- ecution, after particular injuries, he has indeed so perfectly explained, that the late inculcations on the subject by Larrey, and several other modern surgeons, appear to be in a great mea- sure anticipated; the only difference being that Pott’s remarks applied principally to compound fractures, whileLarrey’s refer to gun-shot wounds. All these, however, are cases of accidental vio- lence, and of course, should be treated upon the same general principles. A longer comment on the writings and im- provements of Percival Pott would here be re- quisite to do him every degree of justice ; but, his name, advice, and opinions are so conspicu- ous throughout this volume, that I shall be ex- cused for not saying any thing more in the pre- sent place, than that he was in his time the best practical surgeon, the best lecturer, the best writer on surgery, the best operator, of which this large metropolis could boast. Another character of still greater genius and originality, though of inferior education, was the ever memorable John Hunter, surgeon to St. George’s Hospital, who was at once eminent as a surgeon, an anatomist, a physiologist, a na- turalist, and philosopher. If Pott materially improved many parts of the practice of surgery in England, and evinced himself to be the most skilful operator of his time, John Hunter was also not less importantly employed in extending the boundaries of physiological knowledge, and in the investigation of human, and particulaily comparative anatomy. I he knowledge, which facts, which are invaluable, as they tend to ex- plain the real causes of the symptoms of numer- ous diseases. In the practice of surgery, whenever operations proved inadequate to their intention, Mr. Hun- ter always investigated with uncommon seal the causes of ill success, and in this way, he detected many fallacies, as well as made some import- ant discoveries iri the healing art. He ascer- tained the cause of failure, common to all .the operations in use for the radical cure of the hy- drocele, and was enabled to propose a mode of operating attended with invariable success. He ascertained, by experiments and observations, that exposure to atmospherical air, simply, can nei- ther produce, nor increase inflammation. He discovered in the blood so many phenomena, connected with life, and not to be referred to any other cause, that he considered it alive in its fluid state. He improved the operation for the fistula lachrymalis, by removing a circular piece of the os unguis, instead of breaking it down with the point of a trocar. He explained better than any of his predecessors, all the highly inter- esting modern doctrines, relative to inffamma- tion, union by the first intention, suppuration, ulceration, and mortification. His writings also throw considerable light on the growth, struc- ture, and diseases of the teeth. As instances of his operative skill, it deserves to be mentioned, that he removed a tumor1 from the side of the head and neck of a patient at St. George’s Hos- pital, as large as the head, to which it was at- tached ; and by bringing the cut edges of the skin together, the whole wound was nearly healed by the first intention. He likewise dis- sected out of the neck a tumor, which one of the best operators in this country had declared, rather too strongly, that no one but a fool, ora madman, would meddle with; and the patient got per- fectly well. But, perhaps, the greatest improve- ment, which lie made in the practice of surgery, was bis invention of a new mode of performing the operation for the popliteal aneurism, by taking up the femora! artery on the anterior part of the thigh, without opening the tumor in the ham. (See Trans, of a Society for the Im- provement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge.) The safety and efficacy of this method of opera- ting have now been fully established, and the plan has been extended to all operations for the cure of this formidable disease. (See Aneurism.) According to Sir Everartl Home, Mr. Hun- ter was also one of the first, who taught, that cutting out the bitten part was the only sure mode of preventing hydrophobia; and be length- ened the time, in which this proceeding might be reasonably adopted, beyond the period which had been generally specified. His researches into the nature of the venereal disease, and his observations on the treatment, will for ever be a lasting monument of bis won- derful powers of reasoning and investigation. If he left some points of the subject doubtful and unsettled, he lias admirably succeeded in the elucidation of others; and his work on this in- teresting disorder, is, with all its defects, the best which is yet extant. lnnniirtcTA nnd rnnrh* nf exnrpssioil ot