146 ANEURISM. finger under it, is a measure, which deserves to be condemned in the strongest terms, as it is the very thing, which produces some risk of injuring the saphena vein, and lias a tendency to bring on secondary hemorrhage, inasmuch as it occasions unnecessary handling, stretching, and disturbance of the artery and surrounding parts, and an ine- vitable division of the vessels, by which the arte- rial coats are supplied with blood. According to Mr. Hodgson, the extent of the cut in the fascia should be about an inch; for he wisely avoids all unnecessary separation of the ar- tery from its surrounding parts. On the contrary, Scarpa, who insulates and raises the vessel, pre- viously to tying it, insists upon the prudence of cutting the fascia, the whole length of the external wound; for, says he, if this practice be neglected, it most frequently happens, that, in the succeeding in- flammatory stage, the bottom of the wound swells and becomes very tense, and the matter, which is formed under the fascia, not finding a ready exit, occasions abscesses which seriously retard the cure. But, Scarpa, instead of planning a method of relieving the consequences, might have employed himself more to the purpose in considering how they were to be prevented, and why in his method they most frequently happen. N ow, without laying any stress upon two waxed ligatures, each composed of six threads, with an additional extraneous substance, viz. a roll of linen in the noose, we should be more surprised to hear, that the wound after his method did not become affected with swelling, tension, and sup- puration, than that these were the usual effects. After describing the division of the fascia, he observes; “ With the point of the forefinger of the Left hand, already touching the femoral artery, the surgeon will separate it from the cellular sub- stance, which ties it laterally and posteriorly to the contiguous muscles; and making the point if the same finger pass gradually under and behind the femoral artery (supposing the surgeon has not enormously large fingers) he will raise it alone from the bottom of the wound, or (when it cannot be avoided) along ivitli the femoral vein. If it is along with the femoral vein, the surgeon, holding the artery and vein thus raised, and almost out of the wound, will cautiously separate the vein from the artery with a bistoury, or spatula, or simply with his fingers, <3fc.” (See Scarpa on Aneurism, p. ‘280. Ed. 2.) When we combine the irritation and mischief of all this work with the ill effects of filling the bottom of the wound with soft lint, I would ask, what more certain plan could Scarpa or any other person, have suggested for bringing on the un- pleasant state of the wound, which he describes as most frequently taking place? I shall suppose the fascia has now been divided, under which the surgeon distinctly feels the.pulsa- t:ons of the femoral artery, which is still in- vested by the cellular sheath. The femoral vein lies directly under this vessel, while the branches of the anterior crural nerve, separated from it by dense cellular substance, are more externally, vet somewhat more deeply situated. 1 he next object, therefore, is to pass a single ligature round the artery, without including, or, in any manner meddling with the subjacent femoral vein, or, detaching and disturbing the artery. For this purpose, the best direction, is that given by my friend, Mr. Lawrence : “after dissecting down to the artery, a slight scratch or incision may be made through the sheath, close to the side of the vessel. Then, with a narrow aneurism needle, nearly pointed at the end, and made as thin at its edge as it can be without cutting, a single silk ligature is to be conveyed round it, the point of the needle being kept in contact with the artery. A needle of this form makes its way easily through the cellular substance, and the vessel is detached only in the track of the instrument.” (See Med. Cher. Trans. Vul. 6.) Of the kind of ligature to be employed, I need only say here, that it should be a single one, composed of firm materials, in order to avoid the necessity for increasing its diameter more, than would be desirable for reasons elsewhere consi- dered. (See Hemorrhage and Ligature.) The ligature having been put under the artery, one end of it is to be drawn completely through the track made, for it by the needle, which instrument is then to be taken away, leaving the ligature under the vessel. The ligature is now to be tied in a steady firm manner, but without any im- moderate force, which can never be necessary even for the division of the inner coats of the vessel. In this part of the operation, a few prac- titioners give the preference to what is termed the surgeon’s knot, and commend this plan of fastening the ligature ; a plan, which consists in putting the end of the cord twice through the noose, before the constriction is made. The only good of the surgeon’s knot is, that it does not so readily slip and loosen as a common one; but Scarpa thinks a simple knot best, as it does no', like the other, prevent the surgeon from cal- culating the force, with which the artery is con- stricted. {On Aneurism, p. 281, Ed. 2.) And, besides this reason against the surgeon’s knot, another objection to it is the irregularity, with which a ligature in this form will lie round the vessel. A simple noose should therefore be first made and lightened, and then a second one, so as to form a common knot; and, now, as a mat- ter of precaution against the possibility of the ligature slipping and becoming loose, the sur- geon, if he pleases, can tie the knot once again. One end of the ligature is next to be cut off near the knot; and the sides of the wound are to be brought together with strips of adhesive plaster, the irritation of sutures being carefully avoided. The remaining end of the ligature should always be brought out at the nearest point of the external wound to the knot on the artery. The effects, which in general immediately fol- low the operation, are a total cessation of the pulsation of the ancuristnal tumor, a manifest sinking and flaccidity of the swelling; a damna- tion of pain in the seat of the disease; and a strong vibration of the articular arteries round the knee. As Mr. Hodgson has remarked, the unusual influx of blood into the minute ramifica- tions, when a main artery is suddenly rendered impervious, is generally attended with a remark- able increase in the temperature of the limb. After tying the femoral arte.y for the cure of popliteal aneurism, the same phenomenon occurs, at least after a short time, during which the temperature of the leg and foot frequently con- tinues lower, than that of the sound limb. But,