140 ANEURISM. 197.) cannot be well depended upon, as it may- be doubted, whether the artery had really been tied. Some better established facts, relating to this part of the subject, have been very recently published. One is a case by Dr. Monteath, jun. of Glasgow, which is very remarkable ; as the disease, viz. a popliteal aneurism, recurred nine months after the femoral artery had been unequi- vocally tied in the upper third of the thigh. On the 27 th of February, 1819, this gentleman per- formed the operation, using a single ligature; the pulsation of the tumour in the ham instantly ceased; and the wound healed by the first inten- tion, except where the ligature was situated, which came away on the thirtieth day. By this time, the tumour was diminished to one half of its original size, and, in two months more, only a hard knot was perceptible, in which no pulsa- tion whatever could be felt. After the consider- able lapse of time, above specified, the patient informed Dr. Monteath, that the tumour had re- appeared, being rather larger than a plum. The pulsation in it was distinct, though not so strong as in ordinal aneurism. As the size of the swelling, and strength of the pulsation, increased gradually, a compress and bandage were applied, without confinement; but, as this treatment was ineffectual, the patient was afterwards kept in bed, bled, and put on a spare diet. A thick compress was placed over the tumour, and the limb was firmly bandaged from the toes to the groin. A trial of this plan for three days not having pro- duced any benefit, a tight tourniquet was applied over the tumour; but the pain was such in half an hour, that the instrument was taken offj from which moment no pulsation was felt. Next day the tumour not only did notthrob, but had a firm feel; and, the bandage being continued, the cure was gradually completed. Had the disease not yielded to these means, Dr Monteath meant to have tied the inguinal, or external iliac artery, with the view of cutting off the supply of blood to the sac, through the anastomosing branches. (Scarpa on Aneurism by Wishart, p. 510—512, Ed. <2.) The external iliac artery was taken up by Mr. Norman, of Bath, for the cure of an ingui- nal aneurism, and when the collateral circulation was fully established a few days after the operation, the tumour was again supplied with blood in sufficient quantity to produce a distinct pulsation ; “ a fact, (says Mr. Norman) of prac- tical importance, as it shows, that though the ligature on the iliac artery stops the direct influx of blood into the tumour, and is the means, by which the disease is cured, yet that there exists a necessity for employing strict rest, the antiphlo- gistic regimen, and in some cases, the abstraction' of blood, to assist nature in her operation of ob- literating the aneurism.” And, in another in- stance, after the same gentleman had tied the femoral artery for the cure of popliteal aneurism, the pulsation, though stopped for a time in the tumour, afterwards recurred in such a degree, that much doubt was entertained whether the dis- ease would have been cured by the ligature, on the femoral artery, had not continued and rather powerful pressure been adopted. (Med. Chir. Iran. f'ol. lb, p* 9b, 1 Iff, Ac-) M. Roux, in a late work, has offered some criticisms on the English method of operating for aneurisms. It would hardly be fair play to en- deavour to offer a serious refutation of them, be- cause when he wrote, it was his misfortune not to be duly informed of all the facts and experiments recorded in the inestimable treatise on hemorrhage by the late Dr. Jones. “ Still less confident, than we are (says Roux) in the treatment by compression, and in the use of topical remedies for the cure of external aneurisms, the English surgeons have immediate recourse to the opera- tion with the ligature. Hunter’s method is that which they universally practise. They will not even allow, that there are any cases, in which the operation by opening the sac should be preferred, &c. And it is singular, the very same motive, which would incline us in some ca^es of aneurisms, properly so called, to adopt the operation of opening the sac, As alleged by the English sur- geons as a circumstance in favour of the Hun- terian method. Let us suppose an aneurism so formed, that near the centre of the tumour, or rather near the opening, by which the artery communicates with the swelling, are situated the orifices of the collateral arteries, which would be useful for the reestablishment of the circulation. Here, it is clear, that in practising the operation by the Hunterian method, that is to say, in tying the artery above the tumour, the last ramifica- tions are not indeed sacrificed; but the orifices and first branches of these collateral arteries. Let there be, for example, at the upper part of the femoral artery an aneurism, which, though formed originally below the origin of the pro- funda, now extends above it. Here it is manifest that, in tying the femoral artery above the swell- ing, we should lose the important resource of the profunda for reestablishing the circulation in the lower part of the limb. The desire and hope of saving the profunda would, in such a case, make us adopt the operation of opening the sac, in pre- ference to the Hunterian method: and Scarpa himself, so great an advocate for this last mode, Scarpa, who seems only to have composed his work to cry up this method, makes an exception of the case, which I have just been supposing. The English surgeons, on the contrary, would urge the following objection to the operation by opening the sac in this, and other analogous ex- amples. They contend, that the ligatures would be applied too near to the origin of the collateral arteries, which are to receive the blood after the operation. They are prepossessed with the idea, that, when an arterial trunk is tied at a given point, the too great proximity of the principal collateral arteries disposes to subsequent hemor- rhage; &c.” (p. 256, 257.) a circumstance, which M. Roux seems to doubt. Now, before attempting to reply to these ob- servations, we ought to know what exact distance Roux means, when he speaks of the profunda, or a large collateral artery, originating near the opening by which the aneurism communicates with the main artery. Here he is not at all pre- cise ; and were he to tie the femoral arteiy im- mediately below the point, where the profunda arises, lie would expose his patient to great dan- ger of bleeding. 1 say this, well aware of the case which he has adduced to prove the contrary. In the example brought forward, he applied se- veral ligatures: (p. 260.) some of which were the ligatures d'attente, or loose ligatures left