i n i n \ T nm limrm'nr ♦ nl’i'C PfffP to 1053 TRICHIASIS. direction. And although the trichiasis he con- fined to one eye, botli the eyes usually sull'er from the effects of the disease. Indeed, gene* rally, the eye on the sound side cannot be moved without occasioning pain in that which is exposed to the irritation and friction of the inflected hairs. In almost all instances, both the eyes are very irritable, and incapable of bearing the light. As, in cases of incomplete trichiasis, the patient retains some little power of opening the eyelids for the purpose of seeing, and that most frequently towards the internal angle of the eye, the head and neck are often inclined in an awk- ward manner, so that in children a distortion of the neck and shoulders is at last produced, which cannot be rectified without difficulty, even after the trichiasis is cured. Unfortunately, also, children are impatient of the uneasiness arising from the inflected hairs, and, therefore, are con- tinually rubbing the eyelids, whereby all the ill effects of the complaint are much increased. The cure of the second species of trichiasis, or that which is commonly met with in practice, is accomplished by artificially everting the eye- lid, and fixing it permanently in its natural po- sition, together with the eyelashes, which irritate the globe of the eye. According to Professor Scarpa, this indication is perfectly fulfilled by the excision of a piece of the skin close to the edge of the eyelid, of such a breadth and extent that, when the cicatrix is formed, the tarsus and mar- gin of the eyelid may be turned outwards, and sufficiently separated from the eyeball, the ci- catrix of the integuments affording a point of support fully adequate to keeping the parts in their natural position and direction. Scarpa be- lieves, that there are now very few modern sur- geons, who, with a view to the radical cure of this disease, place any confidence either in plucking out the inverted eyelashes, bending them outwards, and retaining them so by means of adhesive plaster; or in plucking them out, and destroying their roots with caustic : much less in extirpating the edge of the eyelid along with the hairs, or dividing the orbicularis muscle on the internal surface of the eyelid, under an idea that the disease is sometimes produced by a spasmodic contraction of it. The following is the mode of proceeding re- commended by Scarpa. The patient being seated in a chair, if an adult, or, if a child, laid upon a table, with the head raised, and firmly held by an assistant, who must stand behind the patient; the surgeon is to push outward, with the end of a probe, the hairs, which irritate the eye. Then, with a pair of dissecting forceps, or the ends of his fore-finger and thumb (which answer equally well, and in many cases much better, than for- ceps), the operator should lift up a fold of the skin of the affected eyelid, taking great care that the piece, which is taken hold of, corresponds e'xactlv to the middle of the whole extent of the trichiasis; for, sometimes the whole, sometimes a half, and, in other instances, only a third of the extent of the tarsus is inverted. The surgeon, with his left hand, must raise the fold of the skin, more or less, according as the relaxation of the integuments, and the inversion of the tarsus, are more or less considerable. The reason of this is evident, vithe greater the quantity of tity which will be cut away. Supposing the pa- I tient to be an adult, as soon as the fold of skin ! ■' has been raised in a certain degree, the surgeon 1 must request him to open his eye, and if in this I act the tarsus and eyelashes resume their natural place and direction, the portion of skin already ? raised will be sufficient for the purpose. When the integuments are elevated, by means of a pair of dissecting forceps, and care is taken to If lay hold of the skin precisely at the middle I It point of the whole extent of the trichiasis, it ne- I cessarily follows, that the consequent section I of the skin will form an oval, and that the ] greatest width of the wound will correspond ex- i actlv, or nearly so. to the middle of the eyelid, |f and its narrowest parts to the angles, or com- I missures of the same. This contributes very |( materially to make the cicatrix correspond to the ] natural fold of the eyelid, and hinder the origin ] of a disease of an opposite nature to ihe one E' about to be remedied, towards the angles of the U eye, viz. a turning out of the commissures of i; the eyelids. See Ectropium. Besides this caution, relative to the situation i and figure of the fold of the integuments to be I cut off, the surgeon must be careful,.that the divi- ] sion of the skin be made very near the inverted i tarsus. Were this circumstance neglected, the 1 operator might have the mortification of finding, ] after the wound is healed, that although the eye- i lid is shortened, on the whole, from the eyebrow u to the place of the recision, yet it is not equally T' so at the space, which is between the edge of the IF eyelid and the cicatrix of the skin. Hence the tarsus would not be turned outward sufficiently to ] keep the eyelashes from rubbing against the eve. The surgeon, holding up the fold of skin by j; means of the forceps, in his left hand, is with a i1 pair of probe pointed, sharp curved scissors, to cut off the whole of the duplicature, being first | sure that one of the blades of the instrument is applied close to the edge of the eyelid. If the eyelids should be affected, the same operation -r i must immediately be done upon both of them, with such cautions, and in such proportion, as the extent of the disease, and the degree of in- version of each eyelid may require. Scarpa next dissuades us from employing any suture to unite the wound, and represents that it will be sufficient to keep the eyebrow as much downward as possible, if the operation has been done on the upper eyelid, or, if on the lower, to support it against the inferior arch of the orbit, by pressing it from below upwards, so as to keep ;; the edges of the wound from becoming separated. Then the lips of the wound are to be brought exactly together, by means of adhesive piaster, , which should extend from the superior arch of the orbit to the zygoma, and the maintenance of ■ '! this state of the wound will be still more securely ' effected, by placing two compresses, one on the eyebrow, and another on the zygoma, together with a bandage. On the other hand, Langen- beck disapproves of the omission of sutures, by which he finds that the wound may be both more accurately and expeditiously united. Indeed, he expresses himself generally in favour of sutures, where the wounded part is liable to be disturbed by the continual action of the muscles. (Aw Jlihl. li. 1, ;>• -415, c$v. 12mo. Hannover,