MORTIFICATION. parts separate from the living ones by the powers of nature alone, without the general functions being impaired. He argues that there is a ma- nifest difference between what he terms the trau- matic and the spontaneous gangrene, or, in other words, between the humid gangrene from an external cause, and the dry gangrene, which ordinarily proceeds from an internal cause. (P. 148.) In cases of mortification, arising from exter- nal injuries, Larrey maintains, that, “ notwith- standing any thing that writers and practitioners may allege to the contrary, we should not hesi- tate about promptly performing amputation, as soon as the necessity for the operation is de- cidedly established. There is no reason to ap- prehend, that the stump will be seized with gan- grene, as in the spontaneous mortification, which has not ceased to spread, because the traumatic gangrene, after having arisen from a local cause, is only propagated by absorption, and a successive affection of the texture of parts by continuity of the vessels. Amputation, per- formed in a proper situation, stops the progress and fatal consequences of the disorder. “ Supposing then the lower half of the leg should be affected with sphacelus, in conse- quence of a gunshot injury, attended with a vio- lent contusion of the part, and a forcible concus- sion of the vessels, nerves, and ligaments, if the skin is elsewhere uninjured, the operation may be done in the place of election, without any fear of the stump becoming gangrenous, notwith- standing the cellular membrane of the upper part of the member may be already affected. But, when the skin of the whole leg is struck with mortification, the operation must be done on the thigh, and no time should be lost. The same practice is applicable to the upper entremities. We must be careful not to mistake a limb affected with stupor for one that is actually sphacelated. In the first case, warmth, motion, and sensibility are still retained, although the skin may be blackish and the parts may be swollen. Be- sides, if there were any doubt, it would be proper to try at first tonic repellent applications, and cordial medicines, Ac.” (See Mem. dc Chi- rurgie Milituire, T. 3, p. 152, 153.) When amputation has been practised, this author recommends the exhibition of bark, good wine, tonics, Ac. in order to promote the good effects of the operation. (P. 154.) “ The facts (says Larrey) which I shall relate in the course of this dissertation, will prove, I think, in an incontestable manner, the truth of the principle, which I lay down, that when gan- grene is the result of a. mechanical cause, and puts the patient's life in danger, amputation ought to be performed, without waiting until the disorder has ceased to spread. “ I have been a witness of the death of seve- ral individuals, from too rigorous an adherence to the contrary precept; and, at length, grievously impressed with this loss, I had long ago deter- mined to depart from an axiom, which was al- ways considered by me as false. Besides, follow- ing the maxim of Celsus, I preferred employing an uncertain remedy, rather than abandon the patient to an inevitable death. Satins est cniin. anccps auxilium experiri quani nullum. “ I made the first attempt at Toulon, in the year l7ffG, upon a soldier, who, in consequence of a violent contusion of the foot, was afflicted with a gangrenous ulcer, which soon threw the whole part into a sphacelated state. While the mortification was yet spreading, I resolved to amputate the leg. The success of the operation surpassed my expectations; the stump healed ; and, in less than forty-five days, the patient got quite well. This case served to encourage me. “ During the siege of Alexandria, in Egypt, in 1801, a second case, very analogous to the preceding, occurred in my practice; it happened in a dragoon of the 18th regiment, whose fore- arm and afterwards arm sphacelated, in conse- quence of a gunshot wound in the articulation of the left arm. The mortification had extended nearly as high as the shoulder, and the patient’s life was in great danger, when I determined to amputate the limb at the shoulder-joint. The disorder was manifestly spreading, and the pa- tient’s brain already affected, for he had sym- ptoms of ataxia; the operation, however, ar- rested the progress of the sloughing, and saved the patient’s life, who, at the conclusion of the siege of Alexandria, was quite cured. “ After the taking of Ulm, M. Ivan, surgeon 1 to his majesty the Emperor, performed in my- J presence, and at my ambulance established at Elchingen, the amputation of the thigh of a sol- dier belonging to the 76th regiment of the line, the leg having sphacelated in consequence of a gunshot injury. The gangrene was not li- mited, and evidently extending itself; yet, the effects of the disorder were destroyed, and the patient was quite cured on our return to Austerlitz. “ A fourth patient, an officer in the same re- giment, shot in the ankle, at the capture of the same town, was conveyed to my ambulance, in order to be dressed: it was the third day after the accident; the foot was gangrenous, and the leg was swelled, and threatened likewise with mortification. Febrile symptoms had also come on. I hastened to amputate the leg a little above the place of election. The cellular membrane of the stump, of a yellow blackish colour, was already infected with the gangrenous principle (as Larrey terms it). The operation, however, stopped the progress of the mischief; suppura- tion took place in the stump ; some sloughs were detached; the wound assumed a cleaner appear- ance; and cicatrization was completed on the fifty-second day. The patient could already walk with a wooden leg, when he caught the hospital fever, which was epidemic at Ulm, where he awaited his regiment, and, to my great regret, he was carried off’ by this disease, after having escaped the former danger. “ After the battles of Austerlitz and Jena (continues Larrey), several of my colleagues, surgeons of the first class, undertook, in conse- quence of my advice, and the examples of success, which I had recited to them; the amputation of limbs equally sphacelated, although the mortifi- cation was not limited, rather than abandon the patient to a death, which appeared inevitable. In general, these practitioners experienced the same success as I did myself.” • (Larrey, in Mem. dc Chirurgie Militaire, T.'A, p. 154—157.) In Larrey’s memoir upon this subject, there are some additional facts and arguments in