ARSENIC. 207 tlenee in other forms; either in one of those already specified ; or, as a lotion, composed of eight grains of the oxide, and the same quantity of subcarbonate of potash, dissolved in four ounces of distilled water: or, as an ointment, formed by rubbing together one drachm of the oxide, and twelve drachms of spermaceti oint- ment. (See A. T. Thomson's Dispensatory, p. 51.) Febure’s celebrated remedy consisted of ten grains of the white oxide of arsenic, dissolved in a pint of distilled water, to which were then added an ounce of the extractum conii, three ounces of the liquor plumbi subaeetatis, and a drachm of laudanum. With this fluid, the can- cer was washed every morning. M. Febure likewise gave arsenic internally; and his pre- scription was two grains of the white oxide, a pint of distilled water, syrup of chichory q. s. and half an ounce of rhubarb. Of this mixture, a table spoonful was given every night and morn- ing, with half a drachm of the syrup of poppies. Each dose contained about one twelfth of a grain of arsenic ; but, in proportion as the patient was able to bear an increased quantity, the dose was gradually augmented to six table spoonfuls of the solution. The arseniate, or rather superarseniate, of pot- ash, is an excellent preparation for internal exhi- bition. The Dublin Pharmacopoeia directs it to be made, as follows : take of white oxide of arsenic, nitrate of potassa, each an ounce. Re- duce them separately to powder; then, having mixed them, put them into a glass retort, and place it in a sand-bath, exposed to a gradually raised heat, until the bottom of the retort be- comes obscurely red. The vapours, arising from the retort, should be transmitted through distilled water, by means of a proper apparatus, in order that the nitrous acid, extricated by the heat, may be disengaged. Dissolve the residue in four pounds of boiling distilled water, and after due evaporation, set it apart, in order that crystals rnay form. This preparation has long been known under the name of Macquer’s arsenical neutral salt. It may be given in the following way: j-y Potassa? Superarseniatis gr. ij. Aq. Menthae Sativae Spirit, ^iv. Vinosi tenuioris Jj. M. et cola. Dosis drachmas dute ter quotidie. The kali arsenicatum, or, as it ought to be called, the superarseniate of potash, may also be given in the form of the pills, made up with crumb of bread, each of which may contain from one sixteenth to one eighth of a grain of the arsenical salt. The following is Dr. Fowler’s method of pre- paring arsenic for internal use : take of the white oxide of arsenic, and pure subcarbonate of pot- ash, each sixty-four grains. Boil them gently in a hlorentine flask, or other glass vessel, with halt a pound of distilled water, until the arsenic is dissolved. To this solution, when cold, add half an ounce of the compound spirit of lavender, and as much water as will make the whole equal a P'nt> or fifteen ounces and a half in weight. Ine dose of this solution, of which the liquor arsenicalis L. P. is a near imitation, is as fol- ows : from two years old to four M. ij or iij to v » rom five to seven M. v. to vij; from eight <> we ve AT. vij to x ; from thirteen to eighteen M. x to xii; from eighteen upwards M. xii. These doses may be repeated every eight, or twelve hours, the medicine being diluted with thick gruel, or barley water. As the prepara- tion is decomposed bv the infusion and decoction of cinchona, it should never be ordered with either of these medicines. The white oxide of arsenic may be given in the form of pills, made by mixing one grain of it with ten of sugar, and then beating up the mixture with a sufficient quantity of the crumb of bread to form ten pills, one of which is a dose. It will only be in my power to specify here a few of the numerous surgical cases, in which the internal employment of arsenic has been pro- posed. The following are particularly worthy of attention ; tetanic affections ; cancer ; lupus; elephantiasis; inert cases of lepra; (See Bate- man's Pract. Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, p. 33, Ed. 3.); various Unnamed malignant ulcers; certain forms, or sequelae of the vene- real disease, or other unintelligible diseases, which cannot be subdued by mercury; dif- ferent cutaneous affections, &c. A longer list of diseases, for which a trial of arsenic is sug- gested, may be seen in some papers published by Mr. Hill. (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jonrn. Vol. 5, 6.) Arsenic has also been recommended by Dr. J. Hunter, for the prevention of hydrophobia. (See Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 1.) Later trials of the medicine, however, in this particular case, do not appear to entitle it to any confidence. Dr. Marcet found it quite unavailing, though not less than three drops of Fowler’s solution were taken every other hour, in two drachms of pep- permint, or sweetened water. (See Med. Clur. Trans. Vol. 1, p. 141, 156.) After the symp- toms of hydrophobia have once begun, arsenic is decidedly useless. But, although it fails in hydrophobia, some facts published by Mr. Ireland, surgeon to the 60th regiment, make it appear a truly valuable and efficacious remedy for counteracting the poison of serpents. (See Med. Chir. Tram. Vol. ‘2, p. 393.) ARTERIOTOMY. (from apjnyt, an artery, and rtyyw, to cut.) The operation of opening an artery, for the purpose of taking away blood for the relief of diseases (See Bleedins.) ARTERIES. The process, by which a di- vided, or punctured artery is healed, is par- ticularly considered under the word, Hemorrhage; while the general principles) which ought to be observed in the application of the means for the stoppage of bleeding, may be collected partly from the remarks, contained in that part of the work, and partly from what is stated in the articles, Amputation ; Aneurism ; and Ligature. As the condition of a bleeding patient admits of no delay, and the preservation of his life entirely depends upon proper measures being immediately taken, no man ought to be suffered to profess surgery, who is not competent to the treatment of wounded arteries, whether injured by accident, or in a sur- gical operation. As Langcnbeck observes, an igno- rant practitioner, when called to a case of serious hemorrhage, is thrown into such consternation, as actually deprives him of the power of render- ing prompt assistance. Pnlo as a corpse, and