962 RICKETS. power of resistance in that direction, where the greatest strength is required. I have never no- ticed (says Mr. Stanley) any expansion in the articular ends of rickety bones, as is mentioned by some authors. I should therefore feel in- clined to believe, that there has existed only the appearance of such a phenomenon, the ends of the bones having appeared swollen, in conse- quence of the emaciation of the surrounding soft parts. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 402 —405.) When the thoracic viscera are considerably oppressed by the alteration in the figure of the chest, produced by rickets, the disease may bring on fatal consequences. Boyer has thus described the appearances of rickety bones : They are lighter than natural, and of a red, or brown colour. They are pene- trated by many enlarged blood-vessels, being porous, and, as it were, spongy, soft, and com- pressible. They are moistened by a kind of sanies, which may be pressed out of their texture, as out of a sponge, or rather a macerated hide after it has been tanned. The walls of the me- dullary cylinder of the great bones of the extre- mities are very thin, while the bones of the skull are considerably increased in thickness, and be- come spongy, and reticular. All the affected bones, especially the long ones, acquire a remark- able suppleness ; but if they are bent beyond a certain point they break, &c. Instead of being filled with medulla, the medullary cavity of the long bones contains only a reddish serum, to- tally devoid of the fat, oily nature of the other secretion in the natural state. (See Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 619.) The consistence of several rickety bones, examined by Mr. Stanley, was nearly that of common car- tilage. They presented throughout an areolated texture, and the cells were in some parts large, and contained a brownish gelatinous substance. This gentleman did not find the periosteum thickened, as Bichat has described it. (Anatomic Generate, T. 3.) The investigations of Mr. Stanley have also discovered, that, in the pro- cess by which rickety bones acquire strength and solidity, there is always an undeviating regu- larity in the situation, extent, and direction of the deposited earthy matter. “ Thus it is ob- vious 'says this gentleman! that, in the curved bone, the part where there is the greatest need of strength, to prevent its further yielding, is in the middle of its concavity, or in other words, in the line of its interior curve ; and it is just in this situation, that strength and compactness will be first imparted to the bone by the deposition of phosphate of lime. It will be further found, that the greatest resistance being wanted at this part, the walls are accordingly rendered thicker here, than elsewhere, and the degree, to which this excess in thickness is carried, bears an exact ratio to the degree of curvature, which the bone has undergone.” Mr. Stanley’s observations also prove, that the bony fibres are arranged obliquely across the axis of the bone, in a direction calculated to augment its strength. Lastly, we learn lrom the same authority, that if a long bone, like the tibia, be very much benff while it has to sup- thc thickening of the walls of the concave side, but may extend across the medullary cavity, rendering the bone here perfectly solid, and thereby greatly strengthened. (See Obs. on the Condition of the Bones in Rickets, 8rc. by E. Stanley, in Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 404, ct scq.) We learn from Mr. Wilson, that, for many years past, he has also exhibited in his lectures preparations, illustrating the fact of the abundant deposition of osseous matter, “ when the bones begin to recover from the disease, at the part where it is most wanted, viz. on the inner part of the concave surface of their cuWe.” (On the Skeleton, fyc. p. 167.) Many very rickety and deformed infants im- prove as they grow up, and acquire strength. The deformity of their limbs spontaneously di- minishes, and the bones gain a proper degree of firmness, a due quantity of the phosphate of lime being deposited in their texture. It is a question, whether the restoration of the proper figure of the bones can be promoted bv the constant pressure of bandages, and mecha- nical contrivances, sold in the shops. Some au- thors contend, that in very young children ma- chines are useless, as the confinement and inac- tivity of the muscles, necessarily occasioned bv such contrivances, must increase the general de- bility, and consequently the disease. Notwithstanding the praises which have been bestowed on those mechanical means by their in- ventors, and even by respectable authors, says Boyer, they are not now used by any enlightened judicious practitioners, it being generally agreed, that it is best to leave to nature alone, aided by good medical treatment, the duty of rectifying bones deformed by the rickets. ( Traite des Mai. Chir. T\ 3, p. 627.) Delpech expresses him- self still more strongly against the employment of machinery. (See Precis Elemcvtairc des Maladies Chir. T. 3, p 740, c)r.) However, these opinions, against mechanical contrivances for the improvement of rickety bones, are not meant to apply to machines for rectifying distortions of the foot. In such cases, the malformation does not depend on constitutional causes, and mechanical means will do whatever is possible. No medicine is known, which possesses any direct efficacy in cases of rickets.—Tonics are indicated, and should be employed. The state of the bowels must in particular be attended to. The disease appearing to consist in a deficiency of lime in the bones, proposals have been made to exhibit internally the phosphate of lime; but this chemical project has had no success. (See Bonhommc's Memoir on Rachitis, in Duncan's Annals for 1797.) Several circumstances, considered by Mr. Wilson, tend to prove, that this scheme could present no chance of benefit, because there is no proof of a deficiency of lime in the system, though the arteries of the bones do not deposit it in the natural degree. (See Wilson on the Skeleton, <$r. p, 1C3, djr.) More good is generally effected by keep- ing children in healthy situations, and in a salubrious air, than by any medicines whatever.