the tonsils, than from the operation now in ques- tion. Besides, before the glands are so large as to threaten suffocation, they should be cut away, in preference to performing bronchotomy, which might relieve the urge^-y, but could not the cause ol the difficulty of brernhing. I*n general, there is no urgent danger of suffocation, till the swell- ing is such as not only to shut up the posterior aperture of the mouth, but also the posterior openings of the nostrils, which is exceedingly rare. In cases of obstructed respiration from enlargement of the tonsils, Desault preferred the introduction of the elastic catheter, from the nose into the larynx, to the operation of broncho- tomy. It is not common for a polypus to make this operation necessary. Boerhaave, however, mentions a case, in which the patient was suffo- cated, as the surgeon was going to extirpate a tumor of this kind: no doubt, this patient might have been saved, if bronchotomy had been pre- viously performed. Polypi, growing in the larynx itself, are veiy rare; but examples are recorded, and, if such tumors happen to ob- struct the glottis, the patients are instantly suf- focated. Some instances of this kind are related by Bichat. The only mode of getting at such swellings, so as to extirpate them, is by perform- ing bronchotomy. (See (Euvres Chir. de De- sault, T. 2,p. 254, 255.) 6. Lastly, bronchotomyhas been recommended to be done on persons recently suffocated or drowned. Detharding is the first author, who has treated of the necessity of this operation, in the latter case, in a letter addressed to Schroeck, intitled, De Methndo subveniendi submerse per luryngotomiam. Hactemis rede, says Plaller, si spuma qua pulmo in summers is offercitur ea ad- •ministratiane repelli quiret. This writer main- tains, that drowned persons have no water in their chests, or air-vessels of the lungs, and that they perish suffocated, for want of air and respiration, and that, while the person is under water, the epiglottis applies itself so closely over the glottis, that not one drop of water can pass. But, these assertions are quite contrary to the numerous ex- periments made by Louis, who drowned animals in coloured fluids, and proved that they who are drowned, inspire water, with which the air-vessels and cells are quite filled. Louis has also opened men, who have perished under water, but, in them, lie never found the epiglottis applied to the glot- tis, as Detharding says it is; indeed, anatomy proves the impossibility of its being so. Dethar- ding’s theories were wrong, and, as he did not use any power to distend the lungs with air, his mere practice of bronchotomy must have been useless. .When there is a free communication between the cells of the lungs and the atmosphere, the air will not expand these organs, if the inspira- tory muscles can no longer act. Hence, after opening the trachea, and letting as much water run out of this tube as possible, the pipe of a pair of bellows should be introduced, and the air for- cibly introduced into the lungs. Detharding was right in his opinion, that drown- ing is a species of suffocation, and that the priva- tion of oxygen gas is the cause of death. Hence, the propriety of introducing this air into the lungs, as speedily as possible, whenever animation has not been so long suspended, that every hope of restoration is over. Indeed, it is proper to dis- tend the lungs with air, in all cases in which ani- mation has been recently suspended by suffoca- tion, immersion under water, or by noxious va- pours and gases. This measure is highly proper, in conjunction with electricity, the communica- tion of warmth to the body, the application of strong volatiles to the nostrils, rubbing the body with warm flannels, and the injection of any fluid, like warm wine and water, into the stomach, through a hollow bougie. However, tobacco clysters, which have had the sanction of the Iloyal Humane Society, should be reprobated, as the qualities of this plant are peculiarly destruc- tive of the vital principle, and not simply stimu- lating. I am sorry to find this last means com- mended by so respectable a surgeon as Baron Larrey, who joins the rest of the French surgeons in condemning electricity and bronchotomy. He speaks in favour of opening the jugular vein, ex- posing the body to the fire, friction, &c. On dissecting the bodies of some drowned persons, Larrey found, as Louis had done long since, that the air tubes of the lungs were filled with water, instead of air, and that the epiglottis was raised and applied to the os hyoides. (See Memoires de Chir. Militairr, T. 1, p. 83-85.) There are many modern practitioners, who consider bronchotomy, as needless in cases of sus- pended animation, because, it is contended, that, as the patient is always destitute of sensation, a tube may easily be passed into the trachea from the npse or mouth, for the purpose of inflating the lungs. Either the curved pipe of a pair of bellows may be introduced into the glottis through the mouth, or an elastic gum catheter may be passed into the trachea from the nose. “ On peut meltre ce moyen d es edition (says PelleUm') chn les usphixids, ou les tnfans nouveuux uds, qui ne rtspirent pas-, parsque, dans ces differens cas, non seidement il n’y a pas d’ inflammation, mats menu /ante sensibilite est sitspendue, et la canule est com- mode pour souffier de fair duns les poiimnnsr en wienie temps qu’elle peut causer une irritation salu- taire. M. Baudelocque, to on ctlebre confrere, m'a ttmoignd se servir habituellenient, et avee succes de ce moyen pour appelcr a la vie les nouvemu nis limit la respiration ne s’etablit pas." (Clinique Chirurgicale, Tom. 1, p. 29.) Desault likewise conceived, that the lungs might be easily inflated, •without performing bronchotomy. (GEuvres Chir. Tom. 2, p. 239.) Mr. A. Burns adopts the same sentiment. (Surgical Anatomy af the Head and Neck, p. 384.) My own individual opinion upon this subject is, that, if a surgeon knows, that he can inflate the lungs as completely and expedi- tiously, without performing bronchotomy, as lie could by making an incision in the trachea, he is right in dispensingwith the latter operation. But, in the generality of cases of suspended animation, (that of new' born infants excepted, where bron- chotomy would be an objectionable undertaking,) I much doubt, whether in actual practice bron- chotomy will not be found the best and most speedy means of enabling the surgeon to distend the lungs with air. If you follow Desault s suggestion, I contend, that you are likely to be some minutes longer in getting the elastic cathe- ter from the right nostril into the larynx, than you would be in cutting into the trachea, and intro- ducing into the incision the muzzle of a pair of ■ hollows. Supposing the elastic catheter intro-