897 OPIITHALMY. mist be content with inferring that, if it y has such a cause, it originates from a sym- y, prevailing between the urethra and eyes, "that the difference of irritability, in different >le, is the reason, why it is not an invariable equence of the sudden stoppage of a gonor- he injection of warm oil, the introduction of ,ugie into the urethra, and the application of plasms to the perinseum, with a view of re- . ng the discharge from the urethra, form the ne of the practice of those, who place im- -t reliance in the suppression of gonorrhoea g the cause of the complaint. The rarity of ?currence; the frequency of the sudden ition of the urethral discharge; the possi- y* of an ophthalmy arising, as well at this icular moment, as at any other, totally inde- lent of the other complaint; cannot fail to in a discerning mind a degree of doubt, terning the veracity of the assigned cause, ides, admitting, that there is a sympathy, v’een the urethra and eyes, how are we to as- ain, whether the suppression of gonorrhoea he cause or the effect of the ophthalmy, sup- ng that the one ceases, and the other corn- ices, about the same time? Actuated by 1 reflections, I am induced to dissuade sur- ns from adopting any means calculated to re- a discharge of matter from the urethra, en the purulent ophthalmy, in adult subjects, iecidedly occasioned by the actual contact, infection of gonorrhoeal matter, applied acci- .ally to the eyes, no one has recommended : unnecessary and improper practice. l he first indication, in the treatment of the ase from either cause, is to oppose the vio- :e of the inflammation, and thus resist the de- .ction of the eye and opacity of the cornea, copious quantity of blood should be taken y both topically and generally; mild laxatives uld be exhibited, and a blister applied to the e of the neck, or temples. The eyes ought )e often fomented with a decoction of white py-beads, and warm milk repeatedly injected eath the eyelids. To prevent the palpebne n becoming agglutinated together, during -•p, the spermaceti cerate should be smeared the margins of the tarsi, every night. ■ *Vhen the heat and pain in the eyes, and fe- e symptoms have subsided; when an abun- t discharge of pus has commenced; all topical olhents are to be relinquished, and a collyrium ^q. rosae £x. containing Hydrarg. oxy. mur. j. used in their place. Scarpa states, that in ophthalmy, originating from the inadvertent imunication of the matter of gonorrhoea to eyes, applications, in the form of ointment, : h a3 the ung. hydrarg. and Janin’s salve, to ch might be added the ung. hyd. nitrat avail ' re, than fluid remedies. Inflammation of the Eyeball in general. Jm cases, in which the eyelids are at first efiy affected, I pass to the consideration of in- nmation, as commencing in the eyeball itself, lfeer remarks, fortunately it is only very sel- 4be whole of the organ is at once at- " w'*b genuine idiopathic inflammation, lout any part of its texture being spared. I0,,g this kind ol ophthalmy is far more P'ent, than common inflammation of the orbit, it is much more rare, than the same disorder of the eyelids. For the most part, healthy inflam- mation of the eyeball has a limited point of origin, from which it spreads, sometimes quickly, sometimes slowly, over the whole organ. During an exceedingly violent, tense, throbbing pain, af- fecting not only the eye itself, but extending to all the surrounding parts, the bottom of the orbit, and within the head, the white of the eye becomes suffused with an uniform redness, which, on attentive examination, is found to be seated not only in the conjunctiva of the eyeball, but also in the sclerotica, and to exhibit at first a very fine vascular network, which, as the redness grows more intense, assumes the appearance of scarlet cloth, forming all round the cornea an uniform circular prominent fold, which has a very firm feel, and is so tender, that, when touched in the gentlest manner, the patient cries out with agony. The circumference of the cornea con- tinues to be more and more covered by this in- creasing swelling of the conjunctiva, until at length only a portion of its centre remains visi- ble. At the same time, the pupil is very much contracted; the iris motionless; and though vision is nearly or entirely lost, the patient is seriously disturbed by fiery appearances before the eye. When the iris is naturally grey, or blue, it turns greenish, and, when brown, or black, it becomes reddish. Every movement of the eyeball and upper eyelid is suspended, and the orbit feels to the patient, as if it were too small, which, Beer says, is in reality the case, because the whole of the eyeball, and not merely the conjunctiva, is enlarged, so as to project like a lump of raw flesh further and further between the edges of the palpebrae, and completely fill every' part of the orbit. While the eyeball en- larges, the cornea always loses its transparency', and the inflammation spreads to the eyelids, the lower one at last becoming everted by the ex- cessive and firm tumefaction of the parts behind it, and the upper one presenting the most un- equivocal marks of phlegmonous inflammation. The secretion of tears and mucus is now entirely suppressed, and, of course, theeyepreternaturally' dry. At the very commencement of this violent form of ophthalmy', the constitution is disturbed by' a severe attack of inflammatory fever, and irritable patients are not unfrequently seized with delirium. Here, says Beer, terminates the first stage of this very dangerous disorder. When the disease is left to itself, suppuration comes on, attended with fever and/constant shi- verings ; the swelling of the sclerotic conjunctiva undergoes a remarkable increase, and assumes a dark-red colour, at the same time that it becomes softer. The pain becomes irregular, throbbing, and, when the ey’e or eyelids are touched, of a lancinating description.' As a morbid secretion now begins to take place from the Meibomian glands, the swelled conjunctiva has a more moist appearance. The upper eyelid has a purple hue, and, on account of the continually increasing size of the eyeball, is pushed further and further outward. The portion of the cornea, still dis- cernible in the middle of the protuberant conjunc- tiva, acquires a snowy whiteness, which after- wards changes to yellow. The patient feels an oppressive sense of heaviness in the orbit, and a disagreeable kind of coldness all round the cvo.