URINARY CALCULI. 1104 a specific gravity, varying from 1,276 to 1,780, but usually above 1,500. One part of lithic acid is said to dissolve in 1720 parts of cold water, and 1150 parts of boiling water; (Mured, p. 65.) and this solution turns vegetable blues to a red colour. When it has been dissolved in boiling water, small yellowish crystals are de- posited as the fluid becomes cold. Lithic acid calculi blacken, but are not melted by the blow- pipe. emitting a peculiar animal smell, and gra- dually evaporating, until a small quantity of white ash remains, which is alkaline. By distil- lation, they yield ammonia and prussic acid. 1 hey are soluble, in the cold, in a solution of pure potassa, or soda, and from the solution, a precipitate of a fine white powder is thrown clown by the acid. Lime water likewise dis- solves them, but more sparingly. According to Scheele they remain unchanged in solutions of the alkaline carbonates; a statement, which agrees with that of Dr. Prout, who accounts for the effect said to be produced by the alkaline car- bonates upon calculi in the bladder, by their property of dissolving the lithate of ammonia. (Egan in Trans, of Irish Acad. 1805, Prout on Gravel, <.\c. p. 84.) They are not much acted upon by ammonia. They are not soluble either in the muriatic, or sulphuric acid; though they are so in the nitric, when assisted by heat, and the residue of this solution, when evaporated to dry- ness. assumes a remarkably bright pink colour, which disappears on adding either an acid, or an alkali. In many of these calculi, the lithic acid is nearly pure; in others, there is an intermix- ture of other ingredients, particularly of phos- phate of lime, and phosphate of ammonia and magnesia; and, in almost all of them, there is a portion of animal matter, which occasions the smell, when they are burnt, and the loss in their analysis. (See Murray's Chemistry, vol. 4, p. 640; and Mured's Essay on the Chem. and Med. Hist, of Calculous Disorders. Svo. Land. 1817.) A great quantity of uric acid is formed in gouty constitutions, and deposited in the joints, or soft parts, in the state of lithate of ammonia. Sir Everard Home removed a tumor weighing four ounces, from the heel of a gentleman, a martyr to the gout; and when analysed by Pro- fessor Brande, it was found to be principally composed of uric acid. {On Strictures, vol. 3, p. 313.) 2. Lithate of Ammonia Calculus, according to Dr. Prout, is generally of the colour of clay. Its surface is sometimes smooth; sometimes tu- berculated. It is composed of concentric layers, and its fracture resembles that of compact lime- stone. It is generally of small'size, and rather uncommon; but, the lithate of ammonia very frequently occurs, mixed with lithic acid, form- ing a mixed variety of calculus. Under the flame of the blow-pipe, it usually decrepitates strongly. It is much more soluble in water, than Uie lithic acid calculus; and always gives off a strong smell of ammonia on being heated with caustic potash. The lithate of ammonia is also readily soluble in the alkaline subcarbo- vates, which pure lithic acid is not. (Prout on Gravel, fyc. p. S3 ) o Phnsnhate of Lime Cal- urinary calculi had been mentioned by Berg- mann and others, when Dr. Wollaston first as- certained, that some calculi are entirely com- posed of it. From the investigations of Dr. Wollaston, it appears, that this substance some- times, though rarely, composes the entire calcu- lus, but that in general it is mixed with other ingredients, particularly with uric acid, and phosphate of magnesia and ammonia. In the first case, the calculus is described as being of a pale brown colour, and so smooth as to appear polished. When sawn through, it is found very regularly laminated, and the laminae, in general, adhere so slightly to each other, as to separate with ease into concentric crusts. It dissolves entirely, though slowly, in muriatic, or nitric acid. Exposed to the flame of the blow-pipe, it is at first slightly charred, but soon becomes per- fectly white, retaining its form, until urged with the utmost heat from a common blow-pipe, when it may be completely fused. It appears to be more fusible, than the phosphate of lime, which forms the basis of bone; a circumstance, which Dr. Wollaston ascribes to the latter con- taining a larger quantity of lime. (Phil. Trans. 1797.) 4. Triple Phosphate of Magnesia and Am- monia Calculus. The existence of this calculus in the intestines of animals was first pointed out by Fourcroy; but, its being a constituent part of some urinary calculi of the human subject, was originally discovered by Dr. Wollaston. (Phil. Trans. 1797.) According to Dr. Prout, this species of calculus is always nearly white: its surface is commonly uneven, and covered with minute shining crystals. Its texture is not la- minated, and it is easily broken and reduced to powder. In some rare instances, however, it is hard and compact, and when broken, exhibits a crystalline texture, and is more or less transpa- rent. Calculi, composed entirely of the phos- phate of magnesia and ammonia are rare* but, specimens, in which they constitute the predomi- nant ingredient are by no means uncommon. (Prout, p. 86.) When the blow-pipe is applied, an ammoniacal smell is perceived, the fragment diminishes in size, and if the heat be strongly urged, it ultimately undergoes an imperfect fu- sion, being reduced to the state of phosphate of magnesia. (P. 69.) Dr. Wollaston describes' the form of the crystals of this salt, as being a short trilateral prism, having one angle a right angle, and the other two equal, terminated by a pyramid of three, or six sides. These crystals, as Dr. Marcet has explained, are but very spa- ringly soluble in water, but very readily in most, if not all, the acids, and, on precipitation, they reassume the crystalline form. From the solu- tions of these crystals in muriatic acid, sal am- moniac may be obtained by sublimation. Solu* tions of caustic alkalies disengage ammonia from the triple salt, the alkali combining with a portion of the phosphoric acid 5. Fusible Calculus. Mr. Tennant first dis- covered, that this substance was different from the lithic acid, and that, when urged by the blow-pipe, instead of being nearly consumed, a large part of it melted into a white vitreous globule. The nature of the fusible calculus was afterwards more fully investigated and explained ,1