576 HEAD. the other being most frequently owing to an the operation, and says, that '‘the only chance extravasation of lymph, (though sometimes of of relief is from phlebotomy, and an open belly: blood a so) within the substance of the brain, are by which we may hope so to lessen the quantity very seldom removed by art.” (Pott.) of the circulating fluids as to assist nature in the ihe case ot extravasation, oetween the era- dissipation or absorption of what has been extra- mum and dura mater, is almost the only one, vasated. This is an effect which, although not wh i ch admits of relief from trephining. Mr. highly improbable in itself, yet is not to be Abernethy informs ns, that in the cases, which expected from a slight or trifling application of lie has seen, of blood extravasated, between the the means proposed. The use of them must be dura ana pia mater, on a division of the former proportioned to the hazard of the case. Blood membrane being made for its discharge, only the must be drawn off freely and repeatedjv, and serous part of it could be evacuated: for, the from different veins; the belly must be kept eon- coagulum was spread over the hemisphere of the stantly open, the body quiet, ahd the strictest biain, and had descended, as low as possible, to- regularity of general regimen must be rigidly wards its inferior part, so that very little relief observed By these means, very alarming svm- was obtained by the operation (Surgical Works, ptoms have now and then been removed, arid k o/. 2, p. 4b.) 1 his statement, we see, is con- people in seemingly very hazardous circum- firmed by that of Bichat. stances have been recovered.” Des .ult also Fractures of the cranium, which take place promulgated the same advice, and blamed the across the lower and front angle of the parietal doctrine formerly in vogue, that it was better bone, and the rest of the track of the trunk, and to apply the trephine many times uselessly, than large branches of the spinous artery of the dura to let a single extravasation remain undetected ; mater, are cases very apt to be attended with a for, Desault was convinced, that the trephine, copious extravasation. This vessel, and others when used on this principle, was a source of more deeply seated, however, may be ruptured, greater mischief, than the effused blood itself, pour out a considerable quantity of blood, and (Giuvres Chir. T. 2, p. 34.) induce urgent symptoms of pressure on the brain, But, should the mode of judging, whether not only without the co-existence of a fracture, blood lies immediately under the skull, suggested but -even of any external mark of violence on by Mr. Abernethy, prove invariably correct, the the scalp. question, whether the trephine should be applied, The effused blood is Frequently situated be- or not, may in future be more easily determined, low the part, on which the violence has ope- Even when the injured scalp shews where the rated, and, hence, when such part is pointed out violence has operated, the criterion, about to be by a wound, or discoloration of the scalp, or a noticed, may inform us, whether we should per- fracture, and the symptoms of pressure are con- fonte the bone or not; for, though the extra- siderable, I should have no hesitation about vasation is sometimes found immediately under immediately trephining, in the situation of the the external mark, yet, it often is not so ; but, external injury. I have seen many cases, in is in a part distant from that mark, to which situ- which such practice was justified by the result, ation we have nothing to lead us, and to which, and even when no extravasation exists, this plan indeed, if we knew it, we could not reach. Mr. will sometimes detect a depression of the inner Abernethy has observed, “that unless one of the table of the skull, and be the means of saving life, large arteries of the dura mater be wounded, the as happened in one very remarkable case, which quantity of blood, poured out, will probably be I trephined at Brussels after the battle of Water- inconsiderable; and the slight compression of loo. At the same time, it would be wrong to the brain, which this occasions, may not be at- hold out the expectation, that, by acting on this tended with any peculiar symptoms, or perhaps, principle, the surgeon will always find blood it may occasion some stupor, or excite an irrita- immediately under the part of the cranium which tion, disposing the subjacent parts to become he perforates. With respect to a fracture also, inflamed. It is indeed highly probable, that, ii» as a guide to the place for the application of the many cases, which have done well without an ope- trephine in cases of extravasation, Desault re- ration, such an extravasation has existed. But, gards it as very fallacious, dissections proving if there be so much blood on the dura mater, as that numerous fractures of the skull are unat- materially to derange the functions of the brain, tended with any effusion of blood immediately the bone, to a certain extent, will no longer ro- under them ; and his experience taught him, ceive blood from within, and by the operation, that the most frequent cases were those, in which performed for its exposure, the pericranium must there was either extravasation without fracture, have been separated from its outside. I believe, or a fracture'with blood effused in a part of the that a bone so circumstanced, will not be found head remote from the injury of the bone, to blc<?d; and, 1 am at least certain, it cannot (OLuvrcs Chir. T. 2,p. 130.) Even when blood with the same freedom and celerity, as it does is seen issuin'* from the fissure, he regards it as when the dura mater remains connected with it no proof of the dura mater being detached, as internally. ee Abernethy’s Surgical Works, such blood may proceed from the vessels of the Vol. 2, p. 47.) In some cases, related by this dinloe (P- 31.) But, what is to be done, when gentleman, there was no hemorrhage; twice he dangerous symptoms of pressure prevail, without was able, by attending to this circumstance, to any external mark to denote, what part of the tell how far the detachment of the dura mater head has received the blow, or whether any at all ? extended ; and often, when symptoms seemed to for a general concussion of the head may pro- demand a perforation of the skull, he has seen duce* an effusion of blood within the cranium, the operation contra-indicated by the hemor- Under these circumstances, Mr. Fott was against rhage from the bone, and as the event shewed,