741 JOINTS. However, and substituting the mineral acids for them, when the formation of abscesses excites febrile action. With such means, in children, he combines the occasional exhibition of mercu- rial purgatives. (Pathol. Obs. p. 245.) In a work, which Mr. Lloyd has just published, it is assumed as a fact, that, in scrophula, there al- ways is more or less disorder of the functions of the digestive organs, and primarily of no other important function. Hence, the regulation of diet, the state of the bowels, and the hepatic se- cretions, is with this gentleman a principal ob- ject; and, with the latter views, he employs, after Mr. Abernethy’s plan, five grains of the blue pill every night, and half a pint of decoct, sars. twice a day, with opening medicines, if ne- cessary to procure regular daily evacuations. When acidity of the stomach is present, he gives soda, and, when the stomach is weak, cinchona, steel and mineral acids, i On Scrophula, p. 37, <|-c.) However, no doubt can be entertained, that these means, like many others, have no spe- cific power over scrophulous diseases, and, like sea-air and sea-bathing, only answer by some- times improving the state of the constitution. In the local treatment of scrophulous joints, Mr. Lloyd commends quietude of the limb, which is to be confined in a sling, or in splints, the oc- casional resistance of inflammatory action by leeches, and a diminution of temperature ; poul- tices when abscesses form ; opening such collec- tions of matter early ; and, after all irritation has ceased, issues, setons, blisters or the antimonial ointment; or compression upon Mr. Baynton’s plan. (P. 152, fyc.) With respect to opening these abscesses early, Mr. Lloyd differs from many excellent surgeons, especially Dr. Albers, who distinctly states, that it is generally best to allow them to burst of themselves. On this sub- ject, however, great diversity of opinion prevails, and Langenbeck is amongst the advocates for making an early opening. (Bill. B. ‘2, p. 39.) Hectic symptoms are those, which we commonly have to palliate in these cases. When the appe- tite is impaired, and the stomach will bear bark, this medicine should be given with the aromatic confection. Above all internal remedies, opium claims the highest recommendation, as it at once tends to keep off and relieve a debilitating diar- rhoea, which too frequently prevails, at the same time that it alleviates pain, and procures sleep. The objection, made against its exhibition, on the ground that it increases perspiration, seems ex- ceedingly frivolous, when the above important benefits are taken into consideration. Too often, however, the terrible disease of which we are now treating baffles all human skill and judgment, and the unhappy patient’s health having declined to the lowest state, he is neces- sitated to submit to amputation, as the only chance of preserving life. It has been explained in speaking of Amputation, that the condition of the patient’s health, and not of the diseased joint, forms the principal reason for recurring to the severe operation of removing the limb. If the patient’s constitution be equal to a longer struggle, no man can pronounce, that every prospect of saving the limb is at an end. Many diseased joints, apparently in the most hopeless condition, frequently take a favourable turn, and, after all, allow the limb to be saved. The proposal of cutting out diseased joints, has been considered in the article Amputation. Disease of the Hip-joint.—This complaint is very analogous in its nature to the white-swelling of other articulations. In the same way ns the latter disorder, it seems probable, that the disease of the hip has its varieties, some of which may be connected with scrophula, while others cannot be suspected to have any concern with it. Mr. Brodie’s investigations lead him to believe, how- ever, that the disease is of that nature, in which the first change is disease and ulceration of the cartilages. The present complaint is most fre- quently seen in children under the age of four- teen ; but, no age, no sex, no rank, nor condi- tion of life is exempt from the possibility of being afflicted, so that though children form a large proportion of those subjects, who are at- tacked ; yet the number of adults, and even of old persons, is considerable. The approach of the disease of the hip-joint is much more insidious, than that of a white-swell- ing. Some degree of pain always precedes the latter affection ; but, the only forerunner of the former is frequently a slight weakness, and limp- ing of the affected limb. These trivial symptoms are very often not sufficiently urgent to excite much notice, and, when observed by superficial practitioners, are commonly neither understood, nor treated according to the dictates of surgical science. As there is, also, sometimes an un- easiness in the knee, when the hip is affected, careless practitioners frequently mistake the seat of disease, and I have many times seen patients, on their entrance into an hospital, having a poul- tice on their knee, while the wrong state of the hip was not at all suspected. This mistake is extremely detrimental to the patient, not on account of any bad effect, result- ing from the applications so employed ; but, be- cause it is only in the incipient period of the complaint, that a favourable prognosis can be made. In this stage of the disease, mere rest and repeated topical bleeding, will do more good in the course of a fortnight, than large painful issues will afterwards generally accomplish in the long space of a twelvemonth. The symptoms of the disease of the hip-joint, when only looked for in the situation of that ar- ticulation, are not very obvious to the surgical examiner. Though, in some instances, the atten- tion of the surgeon is soon called to the right si- tuation of the disease, by the existence of a fixed pain behind the trochanter major; yet, it is too often the ease, that mere pain about an articula- tion, entirely destitute of visible enlargement and external alteration of colour, is quite disregarded, as a complaint of no importance in young sub- jects, and as a mere rheumatic, or gouty affec- tion, in adults. Patients frequently complain of their most painful sensations being in the groin, and all accurate observers have remarked, that, in the hip disease, the pain is not confined to the real seat of disease, but '^shoots down the limb, in the course of the vastus externus muscle to the knee. The pain, says Mr. Brodie, is at first trifling, and only occasional; but, it afterwards becomes severe and constant. It resembles a good deal the pain of rheumatism, since it often has no certain seat. As the disease advances, the pain