CORNEA. 341 Palhologischen Anatomic, Von F. G. Voigtel, llallc, 1804. Praktische JBeobaclitungen fiber lien grautn Staar and die Kranklieiten der IJorn- haut, von Joseph Deer, Wien, 1791. Pluicliner’s Dissertation de Fungo Oculi. (See War dr op's Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vol. 1, chap. 4.) Others are likewise de- scribed by Mery, in M6m. de l’Acad, des Sciences, 170S ; by DuprS in Phil. Trans. Vol. 19; and Home in the same Work, Vol. 81. The only treatment, which excrescences of the cornea admit of, is to remove them with a scalpel and a pair of forceps, or to destroy them with caustic. ABSCESSES OF THE CORNEA. The following description of abscesses of the cornea, is taken from Mr. Wardrop’s valuable work on the Morbid Anatomy of the Eye. When the matter is collected beween the la- mella? of the cornea, it first appears like a small spot; and, instead of resembling a speck in colour, it is of the yellow hue of common pus. As the quantity of the matter increases, this spot becomes broader, and it does not alter its situa- tion from the position of the head. If it be situated among the external layers of the cor- nea, or immediately below the corneal conjunc- tiva, a tumor is formed anteriorly, and, if touched with the point of a probe, the contained fluid can be felt fluctuating within, or if the eye be looked at sideways, an alteration in the form of the cor- nea may be readily perceived. When the matter collects between the interior lamellae, it does not produce any evident altera- tion, in the external form of the cornea; but, if it be touched with the point of a probe, a fluctuation can be more or less distinctly per- ceived, and the spot alters its form, and becomes somewhat broader. Such collections of matter appear on every part of the cornea. Sometimes they alter their situation by degrees, and sink downwards; and sometimes they change both their situation and form. They very seldom cover more than one- fourth, or one-third of the cornea. When the quantity of matter is small, it is often completely absorbed during the abatement of the inflammatory symptoms, and it generally leaves no vestige behind it. In other cases, the cornea is eroded externally, producing an ulcer, and subsequent opacity, in some few instances, the internal lamellae of the cornea give way, and the matter escapes into the anterior chamber. When an artificial opening is made, the matter erften does not readily flow out; and it is some- times so tenacious, and contained in a cavity so irregular, that it neither escapes spontaneously, nor can it be evacuated by art. It is particularly to the cases, in which matter collects between the layers of the cornea, that the terms unguis, and onyx, are applied. (See Wardrop s Essays on the Morbid Anatomy oj the Human Eye, Vol. 1, chap. 6.) According to a late writer,'these words should be restricted to what he names “ crescentic interlamellar deposi- tions. (Travers’s Synojtsis of the Diseases if the J'le’ P- 115.) Where the cornea is affected with f,nyx, this gentleman commends antiphlogistic 'reatment. (P.2 78.) And with respect to a large collection of' matter in the cornea, whether the puriform onyx, or central abscess, he ob- serves, that it requires “a supporting constitu- tional treatment, mild cathartics, and the appli- cation of blisters calomel should be avoided, and the cornea can seldom be punctured with advantage. (P. 280.) OPACITIES OF THE CORNEA. Opacity of the cornea is one of the worst con- sequences of obstinate chronic ophthalmy. The term opacity is used, when the loss of transpa- rency extends over the whole, or the greater part of the cornea; while other cases of a more li- mited kind are named specks. The distinction, as Beer observes, is chiefly important in respect to the prognosis. (Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 77.) Scarpa distinguishes the superficial and recent species of opacity from the albugo and leucoma, (see these words,) which are not in general at- tended with inflammation, assume a clear pearl colour, affect the very substance of the cornea, and form a dense speck upon this coat of the eye. The nebula, or slight opacity, here to be treated of, is preceded and accompanied by chronic oph- thalmy ; it allows the iris and pupil to be dis- cerned through a kind of cloudiness, and conse- quently does not entirely bereave the patient of vision, but permits him to distinguish objects, as it were, through a mist. The nebula is an effect of protracted or ill treated chronic ophthalmy. The veins of the conjunctiva, much relaxed by the long continuance of the inflammation, be- come preternaturally turgid and prominent; after- wards they begin to appear irregular and knotty, first in their trunks, then in their ramifica- tions, near the union of the cornea with the scle- rotica, and lastly, in their most minute ramifica- tions, returning from the delicate layer of the conjunctiva, spread over the cornea. It is only, however, in extreme relaxation of the veins of the conjunctiva, that these very small branches of the cornea become enlarged. When this happens, some reddish streaks be- gin to be perceptible, in the interspaces of which, very soon afterwards, a thin milky albuminous fluid is effused, which dims the diaphanous state of the cornea. The whitish, delicate, superficial speck, thence resulting, forms precisely what is termed, nebula, or the kind of opacity here to be considered. And since this extravasation mny happen only at one point of the cornea, or in more places, the opacity may be in one speck, or in several distinct ones, but which altogether diminish, more or less, the transparency of this membrane. The cloudiness of the cornea, which some- times takes place in the inflammatory stage of violent acute ophthalmy, especially differs from the species of opacity expressed by the term nebula. The first is a deep extravasation of coagulating lymph in the internal cellular texture of the cornea, or else the opacity pro- ceeds from an abscess between the layers of this membrane about to end in ulceration. On the other hand, the nebula forms slowly upon the superficies of the cornea, in long protracted chro- nic ophthalmy ; is preceded first by a varicose enlargement of the veins in the conjunctiva, next