331 CHI are observed to be seriously aggratflt'ecl by 'ex- posure to heat. In a more violent degree, the swelling is larger, redder, and sometimes of a dark blue colour; and the heat, itching, and pain, are so excessive, that the patient cannot use the part. In the third degree, small vesicles arise upon the tumor, which burst and leave ex- coriations. These often change into ill-condi- tioned sores, which sometimes penetrate even as deeply as the bone, discharge a thin ichorous matter, and generally prove very obstinate. As Dr. John Thomson has remarked, “ when the serum contained in the vesications is let out by a small opening, a portion of new cuticle is usu- ally formed to supply the place of that, which has been separated; but, when the inflammation is severe, and the affection neglected, or improperly treated, the parts, which are the seat of vesication, are liable to pass into the state of vitiated ulcers. In this state, they yield a thin, ichorous, or sanious discharge, and are in general brought, only after a long time, and with much difficulty, to a healthy suppuration. In neglected cases, these ulcers not unfrequently become covered with foul sloughs. Ulceration often supervenes, and the soft parts, covering the bones, are de- stroyed.” (On Ioflammaliov^p. 638.) The worst stage of chilblains is attended with sloughing. Chilblains are particularly apt to occur in per- sons, who are in the habit of going immediately to the fire, when they come home in winter with their fingers and toes very cold; they are also frequent in persons, who often go suddenly into ..the cold, while very warm. Hence, the disease most commonly affects parts of the body, which are peculiarly exposed to these sudden transitions; for instance, the nose, ears, lips, toes, heels, and fingers. Richter remarks, that they are still more frequently occasioned, when the part, sud- denly exposed to cold, is in a moist perspiring state, as well as warm. Young subjects are much more liable to this troublesome complaint than . adults; and females brought up in a delicate manner, are generally more afflicted, than the other sex. The most likely plan of preventing chilblains is to accustom the skin to moderate friction; to avoid hot rooms and making the parts too warm; to adapt the quantity and kind of clothing to the state of the constitution, so as to avoid extremes, both in summer and winter; to wash the parts frequently with cold water; to take regular ex- ercise in the open air in all weathers ; and to take particular care not to go suddenly into a warm room, or very near the fire, out of the cold air. Although chilblains of the milder kinds are only local inflammations, yet they have some peculiarity in them ; for they are not most be- nefited by the same antiphlogistic applications, which are most effectual in the relief of inflam- mation in general. One of the best modes of curing chilblains of the milder kind is to rub them with snow, or ice- cold water, or to bathe them in the latter, several times a day, keeping them immersed eaeli time, till the pain and itching abate. After the parts have been rubbed or bathed in this way, they should be well dried with a towel, and covered with flannel or leather socks. This plan is perhaps as good a one as any; CHO but it is not that which is always congenial to the feelings and caprice of patients; and with the con- stitutions of some it may even disagree. In such cases, the parts affected may be rubbed with spirit of wine, liriimentum saponis, tinctura myrrhae, or a strong solution of alurn, or vinegar. A mix- ture of oleum terebinthinaj and balsamum eo- paivos, in equal parts, is a celebrated application. A mixture of two parts of camphorated spirit of wine, and one of the liquor plumbi subacetatis has also been praised. Mr. Wardrop speaks highly of one part <Tf the tincture of lyttse, with six of the soap liniment. (Medico-Chir. Trans. IV. 5, p. U2.) With respect to vesications, “their occurrence is always hastened, and the inflammation, upon which they depend, greatly aggravated by the action of external heat; and, hence, the pro- priety of continuing cold applications to frost- bitten parts, so long as their temperature con- tinues above the natural standard, or the inflam- mation excited seems to retain an acute charac- ter. From the tendency, which the inflamma- tion excited, has to pass into gangrene, the more stimulating applications, such.as spirit of wine, diluted ammonia, or oil of turpentine may be required. But, should these applications prove too stimulating, their strength may- be weakened be additions of greater or less portions of the linimentum ex aqua ealcis.’’ (Thomson on In- flammation, )>. 6-18.) When chilblains have suppurated and ulcerated, the sores require stimulating dressings, such ns lint dipped in a mixture of the liquor plumbi, subacetatis dilutus, and liquor calcis; tincture, myrrhae, or warm vinegar. If a salve le em- ployed, one which contains the hydrargyri nitrico- oxydum is best. Ulcers of this kind frequently require to be touched with the nitrate of silver, or dressed with a solution of it. Chilblains, attended with sloughing, should be poulticed, till the dead parts are detached. The sores should then be first dresied with some mildly stimulating ointment, such as the unguentum re- sinae flavae. With this, in a day or two, a little of the hydrargyri nitrico-oxvdum may be mixed; but the surgeon should not venture on the em- ployment of very irritating applications, till lie sees what the parts will hear, and whether such will be requisite at all; for, were he too bold, immediately he leaies olf the poultices, he might biing on sloughing again. The reader may Jm l a long list of applications for chilblains in Bees’s Cyclnpevrlia, article Chil- blains. See also Richter's Anfan^sgr. dcr TU«» - darzn. Band. I. Thomson's Lectures on Inflam-* motion, p. 637, Ac. Lassus, Pathologic ('hiring. T. 2. p. 388, Ac. lTveilld Novvclle Doctrine Chir. T.4, p. 352, <Jyr. Calliseu's Systemu C'nt- rargicc Hodiernal, I ol. 1, p.3Q4,6>c. Edit. 1 738. Peurson’s Principles of Surgere, p. 153, See. Edit. 1808. CHIMNEY-SWEEPER’S CANCER.— See Scrotum. CHORDEE. (French, from yopJr, a cord.) When inflammation is not confined merely to the surfaceof'he urethra, but affects the corpus spon- giosum, it produces in it an extravasation of congulable lymph, as in the adhesive inflamma- tion, which uniting the cells together, destroys the power of distention of the corpus spongiosum