30 AMAUROSIS. When the disorder has been brought on by grief, or fright, the stomach and intestines are to be emptied by means of antimonium tartarizatum, and the opening pills; and the cure is to be completed by giving bark and valerian ; applying the vapour of liquor ammoniae to the eyes; ordering nourishing, easily digestible food; di- verting the patient’s mind, and fixing it on agreeable objects, and recommending moderate exercise. The amaurosis from fright is said to require a longer perseverance in such treatment, than the case from sorrow. (Scarpa's Osservaz. Cap. 19.) The third species of gutta serena, or that which arises from debilitating causes, is of two kinds; in one, the disease is the consequence of a general weakness of the body; in the other, it is the effect of debility, which is confined to the eye itself, and does not extend to the whole con- stitution. According to Scarpa, the incomplete amau- rosis from general nervous, debility, copious he- morrhage, convulsions ab inanitxone, and long continued intense study, especially by candle- light, is less a case of real amaurosis, than a weakness of sight from a fatigued state of the nerves, especially of those constituting the im- mediate organ of sight. When this complaint is recent, in a young subject, it may be cured, or diminished by emptying the alimentary canal with small repeated doses of rhubarb, and then giving tonic cordial remedies. At the same time, the patient must abstain from every thing that has a tendency to weaken the nervous sys- tem, and, consequently, the eye-sight. After emptying the stomach and bowels, it is proper to prescribe the decoction of bark with valerian, or the infusion of quassia with the addition of a few drops of sulphuric tether to each dose, with nourishing, easily digestible food. The aromatic spirituous vapours (mentioned in the article OphthuLmi/) may then be topically applied; or if these prove ineffectual, the vapour of liquor ammonite. The patient must take exercise on foot, horseback, or in a carriage, in a wholesome, dry air, in warm weather, and avail himself of sea-bathing. He must avoid all thoughts of care, and refrain from fixing his eyes on minute shining objects. In proportion as the energy of the nervous system returns, and the constitution is strengthened, the sight is restored. In order to preserve and improve this useful sense, the pa- tient must adopt, above all things, every measure calculated to maintain the tone of the stomach, and moderate the impression of light on the retina. This object can easily be fulfilled by always wear- ing flat green glasses before the eyes, in a vivid light. (Baggio di Osservaz. Cap. 19.) When the weakness is confined to the eye only, Richter thinks the topical employment of corroborant applications alone necessary. Bathing the eye with cold water, says he, is one of the most powerful means of strengthening the eye. The patient should dip in cold water a compress, doubled into eight folds, and sufficiently large to cover the whole face and forehead, and this he should keep applied, as long as it continues cold. Or, else, he should frequently apply cold water to his eyes and face with his hand, on a piece of rag. The eye may also be strengthened by re- peatedly applying blisters of a semi-lunar shape. above the eye-brows, just long enough to excite redness. Richter likewise speaks favourably ot rubbing the upper eye-lid, several times a day, with a mixture of the tinctura lyttae and spiritus serpilli, great care being taken, that none of the application come into contact with the eye itself. Spirituous and aromatic remedies, in general, are also proper. (Anfangsgr. der Wundurz. B. 3, p. 452.) When no probable cause whatsoever can be assigned for the disease, the surgeon is justified in employing such remedies, as have been proved by experience to be sometimes capable of reliev- ing the affection, although upon what principle is utterly unknown. The chief means of this kind are emetics, given in small doses, so as to excite nausea, and occasionally in larger ones, in order to produce vomiting; Schmucker’s pills, the com- position of which has been already described, sometimes assisted with the exhibition of arnica and valerian; preparations of mercury either alone, or in conjunction with sarsaparilla, cicuta, or sulphurauratum antimonii; valerian in powder, either alone, or joined with decoction of bark, con- taining either subcarbonate of ammonia, or sul- phuric ether; pulsatilla, in the form of an extract, or an infusion; the extractum hyoscyami albi, with or without antimonial wine, and various other medicines andapplications, which will be considered under the head, Gutta Serena. To this article, I would refer the reader, before he makes up his mind about any empirical method of treatment, because he will there find many cautions and instmetions given by Beer respecting the remedies for amau- rosis in general. To his remarks, I have also annexed such others on the same topic, as ap- peared to me interesting. In the following view of amaurosis, chiefly taken from the valuable writings of Professor Beer, the reader will find a more complete his- tory of the different forms of the disease, and their varieties, than has previously been drawn up in our language. The only points, on which Beer perhaps ventures too far, are those relating to the etiology of the several cases ; a subject, in which he displays the usual credulity of the continental surgeons. With his observations, I have taken the liberty to blend a few additional remarks, not eating about the length of the article, where the matter seemed new and interesting. 1. OF THE MFFEREXT FORMS OF AMAUROSIS IW GENERAL. Beer reckons four species of amaurosis. The first is a genuine uncomplicated amaurosis, the characteristic symptom of which consists pe- culiarly and entirely in an impairment or loss of vision, without any morbid change in the organic matter of the eye. Secondly; there is an amaurosis, which, be- sides being attended with a diminution, or total loss of vision, is also accompanied with appear- ances of disease in the organic matter of the eye. Thirdly; there is another amaurosis, in which, together with the above principal symptom, viz. weakness, or loss of sight, there are also morbid phenomena exhibited in the form of the eye in genbral, or its particular textures* and especially in the action of the irritable parts. Lastly; Beer says, lie can often point out an