FRACTURES. 457 patient should lie strictly in bed, until the callus is completely formed. It fs likewise an advan- tage not to have the bed much more than a yard wide, because the surgeon and assistants can then more conveniently get at any part of the limb. Feather beds are a great deal too soft and yield- ing : a horsehair mattress is far preferable. Rover, indeed, is so impressed with the utility of letting the patient lie upon a surface, which will not sink, that he recommends two mattresses ;o be used, and a board to be laid under the upper one, from the hip to beyond the patient’s foot. (Tntil6 iks Mai. Cliir. p. 39, Vul. 3.) The most favourable position for a fractured limb, is that, in which all the muscles, passing over the fracture, and extending either to the lower fragment, or to that part of the limb, which is articulated with it, are equally relaxed. The injured limb should also have firm support it every point, and its position ought to be re- gulated so that not only this object be carefully fulfilled, but at the same time the chance of dis- placement from the action of the muscles, or the weight of the body, or part itself, may be di- minished as much as possible. The natural or rather the most easy position pf the limb, is that which is usually chosen by a person who reposes himself, or who is sleeping; or then all motion is suspended, and every part issumes that posture which is most congenial to In this condition, the limbs are not extended, tor yet entirely bent; but only in a moderate tate of Hexion. Hence, Boyer remarks, that a alf bent position-of the limbs, is that, which is lost natural, and that in which all the muscles njoy an equal degree of relaxation, and, conse- juentlv, that it is, generally speaking, the best or fractures. This posture, as Boyer observes, hich was recommended by Hippocrates and >alen, has been highly extolled by Pott, who ap- ears to have exaggerated its advantages. Con- ideretl in a general way, it is without contradiction referable to every other position of the limb ; ut, its employment should be liable to exceptions, > will he noticed in treating of particular frac- ires. (See Boyer,- Truii6 den Mai. C/iir. T. 8, . 40.) In whatever position a broken limb is placed ;ays this writer) it should bear throughout its hole length, equally and perpendicularly upon e surface on which it lies, and not be only ;rtially supported- When, for example, only e extremities of a fractured limb rest upon the d, the weight of the limb itself will make it nd in the situation of the fracture. '1 he limb 11 also be rendered crooked, if the broken part supported, while the extremities of the limb specially the inferior), sink lower by their own ight. The displacement of the fracture is not I : only inconvenience arising from the limb ! >ng laid upon a surface, where it is not every I ere equally well supported. '1 he parts which .bear on this surface, experience a painful de- :e ot pressure, which if long continued, is apt produce inflammation, and even sloughing of ' integuments. Thus, in fractures of the leg, ’grene ot the heel has sometimes arisen entirely rn this cause. Such inconveniences may be :vented by laying a fractured limb on a surface corresponding form ; that is to say, on a sur- c, which is depressed where the limb lias pro- jections, and rises where it presents depressions. Ihe surface should not be so hard as to annoy the patient, but yet it ought to be sufficiently firm not to yield to the weight of the limb and apparatus. According to Boyer, the best pillows for the support of broken limbs, are stuffed with chaff of oats, a substance, which he describes as far preferable to feathers, because it more readily admits of being pushed from the place where the limb is prominent to another situation where the member presents a depression, or hollow; and it has the advantages of being less heating than feathers, and less apt to spoil. In whatever position fractured limbs are placed, they ought to be kept perfectly quiet during the whole time requisite for the union. If the broken bone be moved, while the callus is forming, the surfaces of the fracture rub against each other, and the process is disturbed; and, indeed, some- times by repeatedly moving the limb, the con- solidation of fractures is entirely prevented, or, at least, rendered very slow and difficult. In order to maintain the limb in the right position, and in a state of quietude, and to pre- serve the fragments in proper contact with re- spect to each other, the surgeon is to caution the patient to avoid moving at all more than can be helped, and every cause likely to subject the limb to any kind of shock, or concussion, is to be re- moved. But, in particular, it will be neeessary to apply a retentive apparatus, usually consisting of some application to the skin itself, bandages, splints, tapes, straps, and buckles, soft pads, Ac. (See Boyer, Traite <lcs Mai. Cliir. T. 3, p. 42.) Upon the subject of the dressings, bandages, Ac. which ought to be applied to fractures, no surgeon lias written better than Mr. Pott. “ The intention (says hel in applying any kind of external medicine to a broken limb is, or ought to be, to repress inflammation, to disperse- extravasated blood, to keep the skin lax, moist, and perspirable, and at the same time to afford some, though a very small degree of restraint or confinement to the fracture, but not to bind or press; and it should also be calculated as much as possible to prevent itching, an herpetic, eriqrtion, or an erysipelatous efflorescence. At St. Bartholomew’s hospital, we use a cerate made by a solution of litharge in vinegar, which with soap, oil, and wax, is afterwards formed into such consistence as just to admit being spread with- out warming. “ This lies very easy, repels inflammation, is not adherent, comes off clean, and very seldom,, if ever, irritates, or causes either herpes or erysi- pelas. But let the form and composition of the application made to the limb be what it may, one thing is- clear, viz. that it should be put on in such manner, as that it may be renewed and shifted as often as may be necessary, without moving the limb in any manner: it being cer- tain, that when once a broken thigh or leg has been properly put to rights, and has been de- posited properly on the pillow, it ought not ever to be lifted up or moved from it again without necessity, until the fracture is perfectly united; and it is true, that such necessity will not very often occur.” Such application having been made as the sur- geon thinks right, the next thing to he done is to put on a proper bandage.— iliat fuimorly