ANEURISM. 153 cannot be admitted as a just reason for delay, until the collateral vessels have had time to en- large. I believe, that in all aneurismal diseases, early operating is the best, and most judicious practice. This was one principal cause, as Kirk- land observes, which occasioned the bad success of the old surgeons in the treatment of popliteal aneurisms, and he foretold many years ago, that operations for the cure of aneurisms would an- swer better, if not deferred so long as formerly. (See Thoughts on Amputation, fyc. 8vn. Laud. 1780.) Ijoin Kirkland in this sentiment, notwith- out recollecting, that all aneurisms are attended with a chance of getting spontaneously well in the course of time. I saw the inguinal aneurism which did so, under Mr. Albert, in the York hospital; but as this also is a rare incident, I do not be- lieve, that it ought to influence us against having speedy recourse to an operation. Besides, the cure by inflammation and sloughing, appears to me to be attended in reality with more peril, than a well executed operation, and consequently, has less recommendations, than many may imagine. Had not Mr. Albert’s patient been a very strong man, he would certainly have fallen a victim to the extensive disease, which the bursting and sloughing of the tumor created. Tlius, Dela- porte’s patient died of the mass of disease, which the tumor itself made; for it had been suffered to attain too large a size, so that when it inflamed, the effects were fatal. (See Richerund, Nosog. Chir. T. 4, p. 113, edit. 4.) I believe Dr. Wilmot’s observation is perfectly correct, that, if a comparison were made between the operation of tying the external iliac artery and that oftying the artery in the thigh, we should find the recoveries after the first more frequent, in proportion to the number of times it has "been done, than after common operations lower down. (See Dublin Hospital Rep. Sic. vol. 2, p. 214.) I subjoin a list of some of the successful ex- amples of this operation. Mr. Abernethy, two cases, (Surgical Works, vol. 1.) Freer and Tom- linson, 2, {Freer on Aneurism, 1807.) Mr. A. Cooper, 4, (Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, p. 41 7.) Goodlad, 1, ( Edin. Med.Sp Sur. Journ. vol. 3,p.S2.) Mr.Brodie, I, (Hodgson op.cit.p.'419.) Lawrence, 1, (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. 6. p. 205.) J. S. Soden, 1, (Same work, vol. 7 ,p. 536.) G. Norman, \, (Same work, vol. 10.p. 95,8(c.) Bou- chet, 1, (Roux Med.Qp&raloire, T. 1. p. 744.) J. S. Dorse}', (Elements of Surgery, vol. -2, p. 180, Philadelphia, 1813.) Mouland, 1, Bulletins de la Faculte de Medicine de Paris, T. 5, p.535.) Dupuytren, I, (French Transl. of Mr. Hodgson s J\ ork, 7.2, p. 215.) Dr. Cole, 1, (Rapport des Travaux de la Socide d'Emulation de lit Villc de Lambrui, 1817, or fond. Med. Repository.J Dr. "VVilmot, 1, (Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. 2, p. 208, dfc.) Kirby, 1, (Cases with Observations, 6\c. 8vn. Band. 1819.) Dr. Post, 1, (American Med. ^ Philos. Register, vol. 4.) Ncwbiggin, 1, (Edin. Med.Sf Surg. Journ, January, 1816.) Some particulars of the case of ruptured ingui- nal aneurism, in which Mr. A. Cooper tied the aorta, will be hereafter noticed. (See Aorta.) Hosenmuller’s Chir. Anat. Plates, in illustra- tion oi the operation of tying the external iliac artery, merit notice. (Sec part 3, tub. 2,7, and 9.) CASES OF GLUTJEAL ANEURISM CURED BV TYING THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The glutrcal artery is large; from its situation, liable to wounds ; from its size, subject to aneu- rism. Dr. Jeffray, of Glasgow, was consulted in a case, where the glutacal artery had been wounded. He urged the propriety of tying the vessel where it had been injured. This sensible advice was at first rejected, and when the friends at last consented, the operation was too late, as while preparation was making for it, the tu- mor burst, and the patient expired in a few moments. Theden also mentions an instance, in which the glutseal artery was wounded in the dilata- tion of a gunshot wound, and the patient lost his life. (See Scarpa on Aneurism, p. 407, Ed. 2.) Mr. John Bell, however, tied the glutaeal ar- tery in a case where it was wounded, and the patient was saved. Mr. Stevens, surgeon in Santa Cruz, the gen- tleman who has proved the practicableness of put- ting a ligature round the internal iliac artery, informs us, that “ one of the first surgeons in London had a patient with glutaeal aneurism. The tumor was large; allowed to burst; and the person bled to death. “ I sincerely trust, says he, that the following case may be the means of preventing such an occurrence in future. “ Maila, a negro-woman, from the Bambara country in Africa, was imported as a slave into the West Indies in the year 1790. She was purchased for the estate Enfield Green; now the property of the heirs of P. Ferrall, Esq. I saw her first in the beginning of December, 1812. She had a tumor on the left hip, over the scia- tic notch. It was nearly as large as a child’s head, and pulsating very strongly. She could assign no cause for the disease. It had com- menced about nine months before, with slight pain in the part; and had gradually increased to its present size. She was now much reduced, in great misery, and ready to submit to any operation.” (See Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 5. p. 425.) After a few more particulars, Mr. Stevens notices, that he had tied the internal iliac on the dead body, and that he believed it might be done with safety on the living. The following is some account of this ope- ration, as practised upon the above negro- woman. “ On the 27th December, 1812, (says Mr. Stevens), I tied the artery in the presence of Dr. Lang, Dr. Van Brackle, Mr. Nelthropp, and Mr. Ford, the manager of the estate. “ An incision, about five inches in length, was made on the left side, in the lower and lateral part of the abdomen, parallel with the epigastric artery, and nearly half an inch on the outer side of it. The skin, the superficial fascia, and the three thin abdominal muscles, were successively divided ; the peritoneum was separated from its loose connexion with theiliacus internus and psoas magnus; it was then turned almost directly in- wards, in a direction, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the division ot the common iliac artery. In the cavity, which I had now made, 1 felt lor the internal iliac, in-