630 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. the Hotel-Dieu at Paris, yet the first distinct modern account of this disease is contained in the :3d vol. of the posthumous works of Pouteau, published in 17S3. In the year 1788, Dussas- soy, who succeeded Pouteau as chief surgeon of the IIotel-Dieu at Lyons, also published a short treatise on the disorder. The first very accurate description of hospital gangrene in the English language, appeared in the Gth vol. of the Lon- don Medical Journal, printed in 1785. The account is entitled “Observations on the Putrid Ulcer, by Mr. Gillespie, surgeon of the Royal Navy.’’ In the edition of Dr. Rollo’s work on Diabetes, published 1797, there is a section on this subject, entitled, “ A short account of a mor- bid poison, acting on sores, and of the method of destroying it.” In 1799, Sir Gilbert Blane in the 3d edit, of his book on the diseases of Sea- men, gave an account of hospital gangrene under the name of malignant ulcer; and Dr. Trotter, in the 2d vol. of his Medicina Nautica, published in the same year, described that affection by the same appellation. In the 3d vol. of the same work, Dr. Trotter has added to his first ac- count several valuable communications, rela- ting to this disease, received from surgeons of the Royal Navy. Mr. John Bell has also made hospital gangrene the subject of particular re- mark, in the 1st vol. of his Principles of Sur- gery, published in 1801. According to Dr, Thomson, two excellent theses have likewise been published on the subject in the University of Edinburgh; the first entitled, “ De Gangraena Contagiosa,” by Dr. Leslie in 1804; the se- cond by Dr. Charles Johnson, in 1805, under the title of “ De Gangriena Contagiosa Noso- comiale.’’ (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 456 —458.1 Professor Thomsbn’s account of the subject, published in 1813, contained the fullest history of the disease, at that time collected. Boyer afterwards gave a very fair account of the dis- temper. (See Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 320, 8 no. Paris, 1814.) These descriptions were followed by the va- luable essay of Delpech, entitled “ Memoire sur la Complication des Plaies et des Ulceres con- nue sous le nom de Pourriture d’Hopital;” 1815; some interesting observations by Dr. Hennen, in the London Medical Repository for March, 1815; a paper by Professor Brugman, of Leyden, “in theAnnalesdeLitteratureMed. ’ vol. 19, 1815; and lastly, the treatise of Mr. Blaekadder, which contains some of the best re- marks ever made concerning this affection, and is entitled “ Observations on Phagedcena Gan- graenosa, 8vo. Edinb. 1818.” According to Mr. Blaekadder, who is a be- liever in the doctrine of the complaint being only communicable by the direct application of the infectious matter, when the morbific matter, which produces the disease, has been applied to some part of the surface of the body, from which the cuticle has been removtd, as by a blister, one or more small vesicles first appear, which are filled with a watery fluid, or bloody scrum of a livid, or reddish brown colour. Ihe situation of the vesicle is generally at the edge of the sore. Its size is not unfrequently that of a split garden pea, and is easily ruptured, the pellicle, which covers it, being very thin. When the vesicle is filled with a watery fluid, and has not been rup- tured, it assumes the appearance of a greyish- white, or ash-coloured slough ; but, when it con- tains a dark-coloured fluid, or has been ruptured, it puts on the appearance of a thin, coagulum of blood, of a dirty, brownish, black colour. During the formation of the vesicle, there is generally a change in the sensation of the sore, accompanied with a painful feel, like that of the sting of a gnat. After a slough is formed, it spreads with more or less rapidity, until it occupies the whole sur- face of the original sore ; and, when left to itself, (which seldom happen?,) there is little or no dis- charge, but the slough acquires daily greater thickness. “ When the formation of the slough has been interrupted, the stinging sensation becomes more frequent and acute; phagedenic ulceration quickly commences ; and such is frequently the rapidity of its progress, that even in the course of a few hours, a very considerable excavation will be formed, while the parts in the vicinity retain their usual healthy appearance.” The cavity, the edges of which are well defined, is filled with a thick glutinous matter, which adheres strongly to the subjacent parts. "When this matter is removed, the surface underneath presents itself of a fine granular texture, which, in almost all instances, is possessed of extreme sensibility, and is very apt to bleed, when the operation of cleaning is not performed with great delicacy. At each dressing, the circumference of the cavity is found enlarged, and if there are more, than one, they generally run into each other. The progress of the disease is much quicker in some individuals, than others, but it never ceases, until the whole surface of the original sore is occupied. The stinging pain gradually be- comes of a darting, or lancinating kind; and either about the fourth, or sixth day, from the time when the morbific matter had access to the sore, or afterwards, at the period of what may be termed secondary inflammation, the lymphatic vessels and glands are apt to become affected. The discharge becomes more copious, its colour varying from a dirty yellowish white to a mixture of yellow, black, and brown, depend- ing upon the quantity of blood mixed with it. “ The soft parts, in the immediate vicinity of the sore, daily become more painful, tumefied, and indurated; and, in a great number of cases, particularly in those of phlethoric and irritable habits, an attack of acute inflammation speedily supervenes, and is accompanied by a great in- crease of pain, the sensation being described to be such as if the sore were burning. The period, at which this inflammation begins to subside, is by no means regular. Sometimes, it subsides in the course of two days, and sometimes it con- tinues upwards of five; depending very much on the constitution and previous habits of the patient, as well as the treatment that has been adopted. During its progress, the thick, putrid- looking, and frequently spongy slough which is formed on the sore, becomes more and more moist, and of a pulpy consistence. (Hence this form of disease is actually named by Ger- son, pulpy gangrene.) In the course of a few days, a very offensive matter begins to be dis- charged at its edges. The slough then begins to separate; by and by, it is thrown off, but only ! 5 t •« I K \