* CATHETER. 329 to turn the concavity of the catheter upwards, ourrht to be done very slowly, a large sweep being ma'de with the handle, while particular care is not to retract, nor move the beak from position. The handle is then to be de- taken its pressed, and the operation finished exactly in the same manner, as when the first plan is pursued. As Desault properly observes, the only cir- cumstance, in which the two methods differ, is, that, in one, the same thing is performed by two movements, which is done in the other by one; so that the operation is rendered more difficult and painful. Hence, many judicious modern surgeons never practise the “ tour de rnaitre, except when their patients are very corpulent, or placed in the position usually chosen for litho- tomy, when other modes of introducing the cathe- ter would be less convenient. The depth to which the catheter has entered, the cessation of any feeling of resistance to the motions of the beak, when revolved upon its axis, and the issue of the urine, are the circum- stances, by which the surgeon knows, that the in- strument has passed into the bladder. According to the experience of Desault, the practice of gradually letting out a part of the urine, after the catheter has been introduced, is by no means advantageous. He also disapproves of running into the opposite extreme, that is to sav, of letting the urine flow out of the catheter, as fast as it is secreted; for, then, the bladder , H is kept constantly relaxed, and the detrusor mus- I cle will not be likely to recover its tone. When ir the biadder is continually empty, it is liable to come into contact with the end of the catheter; i j| a circumstance, whichjhas sometimes caused con- | I siderable irritation, pain, and even ulceration of that viscus. Besides these inconveniences, there are some others; the catheter is sooner obstructed with mucus, and covered with incrustations, than when it is closed with the stilet. The patients HI are likewise obliged to remain in bed, where they |i| are either wet with their urine, or compelled to have incessantly a pot for its reception. The best practice, therefore, seems to be that of let- ting out all the urine, as soon as the catheter is introduced, and then closing the instrument, until the bladder has become moderately dis- tended again; for, experience proves, that such moderate distention and relaxation of the mus- cular fibres of the bladder, alternately kept up, have the same good effects upon that organ, as moderate exercise has upon other parts of the body. When a catheter is to be left in the urethra, it should always be properly fixed with a narrow piece of tape, or else it is apt to slip out, or even pass too far into the passage. For this purpose, some surgeons use cotton-thread, which they fasten to the rings, or round the ex- ternal end of the catheter. The two extremities of the thread are then carried some way along the dorsum of the penis, when they are tied together, and afterwards conveyed in opposite directions round the part, till they meet under- neath it, where they are tied in a bow. When a silver catheter is employed, a tape, or narrow riband is passed through each of the rings, and conveyed to each side of the pelvis, where it is fastened to a circular bandage. Mr. Hunter re- marks, that the common bag-truss for the scro- tum answers extremely well, when two or three I rings are fixed on each side of it along the side of the scrotum, and the ring of the cannula is fastened to any of them with a piece of tape. (On the Venereal Disease, Ed. i, p. 159.) He also notices another method : when the catheter (says he) is fairly in the bladder, the outer end is rather inclined downwards, nearly in a line with the body. To keep it in this position, we may take the common strap, or belt part of a bag-truss, with two thigh straps, either fixed to it, or hooked to it, and coming round each thigh forwards by the side of the scrotum, to be fastened to the belt, where the ears of the bag are usually fixed. A small ring, or two, may be fixed to each strap just where it passes the scrotum, or root of the penis; and with a piece of small tape, the ends of the catheter may be fixed to those rings, which will keep it in the bladder. It seems Mr. Hunter did not, like Desault, disap- prove of leaving the catheter unclosed, and he adds, therefore, “a bit of rag, about four or five inches long, with a hole at the end of it, passed over the exterior end of the catheter, and the loose end allowed to hang in a basin, placed be- tween the thighs, will catch the water, which cannot disengage itself from the catheter, and keep the patient dry; or, if another pipe is in- troduced into the catheter, it will answer the same purpose.” (Op. cit'. ]>. 191.) But, there are numerous modes of fixing a catheter, which need not be specified; for, although they are of importance, the principles, which should be ob- served in adopting them, are the main things to be understood. These are, first, never to fix a catheter in such a way, that too much of the instrument projects into the cavity of the blad- der; and, secondly, to be careful, that the thread, or tape, which is applied, will not chafe and irri- tate the parts. Mr. Hey has offered some good practical re- marks on the introduction of the catheter. If, says he, the point of the catheter be less turned than the urethra, the point will be pushed against the posterior part of the passage, instead of fol- lowing the course of the canal. The posterior part of the urethra has nothing contiguous to it which can support it; and no considerable degree of force will push the point of the catheter through that part between the bladder and the rectum. If this accident is avoided, still the point will be pushed against the prostate, and cannot enter the bladder. Mr. Hey tells us, that the truth of this is illustrated, by the assistance which is derived, whenever the catheter stops at the pros- tate, from elevating the point of the instrument with a finger introduced in the rectum. Mr. Hey takes notice of the impropriety of pushing forwards the point of the catheter, be- fore its handle is sufficiently depressed, as the point would move in a horizontal direction, and bo likely to rupture the posterior side of the urethra. The difficulty arising from the inflamed utul dry state of the passage, (which difficulties I should conceive can never be great). Mr. Iley saye, may be obviated by the previous introduc- tion of a bougie, well covered with lard. In order to pass the catheter, Mr. Ilcy places his patient on a bed, in a recumbent posture, Ins breech advancing to, or projecting a little beyond the edge of the bed. If the patient s feet can- not rest upon the floor, Mr. Ilcy supports thq