838 NECROSIS. truck* from the ulcer, or is visible on sepa- rating its edges. When it is black, there cannot be a doubt ot its being actually dead; but, on the other hand, when its whiteness is increased, the diagnosis is difficult, because bones being naturally white, much experience is necessary to be able to judge whether they are so in excess. It merits attention, also, that the black colour ot the bone is not owing to the necrosis itself, but seems rather to depend upon the fragment having been exposed to the air. In fact, dead pieces ot bone with which the air comes into con- tact, turn black, while those, which are covered with matter, retain their whiteness. The cylin- drical portion of a humerus, which was almost totally affected with necrosis, was universally black at the part, which protruded through the flesh ; but the rest, which lay under the integu- ments, remained white. (Wcidmann dc Necrosi Ossiitm, p. 19, cl Tab. 9, fig I.) When the early symptoms of the disease are mild, the surgeon may infer, that it is only a superficial portion of the bone, which is about to be separated. But, this judgment will be more certain, if confirmed by examination with the finger, or probe; or if the swelling, which oc- curred in the beginning, has not spread beyond the affected point, and if the pain affects only the outer part of the bone. In this sort of case, there is also great probability, that the dead bone will be separated within a moderate time. It is also of importance to ascertain the ex- istence of an internal necrosis, anu to learn whether it is situated in the spongy substance, or in the internal parietes of the canal of the bone; whether it affects only a part, or extends to the whole body of the bone. When there is a i internal necrosis, says Weidmann, the disease is generally more aggravated, and of longer duration ; and in the first stage, the patient is affected with severe symptoms, intolerable pain, loss of rest, ardent fever, profuse perspirations, and such disorder of the system, as may prove fatal, unless the patient be young and strong. The hard swelling, which was observable at the commencement of the disease, increases but slowly, and extends very gradually over the circumference of the limb, while the skin yet remains free from redness and tension. If the part be somewhat roughly handled, the pain, ■which is fixed in the bone, is not rendered more acute, as would happen, were the ease an exter- nal inflammation. In this suffering condition, the patient continues a good while, before the formation of matter brings a degree of re- lief. When the matter is formed, it spreads through the adjacent cellular substance, amongst the muscles and other parts, and the abscess generally bursts, after a considerable time, by several openings, very distant from the main collection of matter, as also remote from each other, sometimes in diametrically opposite situa- tions. The evacuation of the matter, however, does not produce any material subsidence of the swelling. The pus is of good quality, and issues in large quantities from the ulcerated apertures, the quantity, however, not being increased wh'vn pressure is made. If some of the openings heal, others are formed; but, in general, the edges become callous, and they lose all disposition to cicatrize. When the case pretents the foregoing circumstances, and the weakened limb can neither bear the action of the muscles, nor the weight of the body, and by either of these causes, its shape becomes altered, the surgeon may conclude, that the disease is an internal necrosis. But, in or- der to avoid mistake, he should introduce into the sinuses a probe, which, passing through the openings in the subjacent bone, will touch the dead piece, which it contains, and which will sometimes be even distinguished to be loose and moveable. The extent of the sequestrum must be judged of, by the extent of the swelling, and the distances between the apertures in the bony shell, which includes the sequestrum. The surgeon should also endeavour to ascer- tain with the probe, whether there is only a single sequestrum, or several. When there are several, they may be felt with the probe in dif- ferent places, down to which this instrument is passed, and the removal of one, or two of the fragments, is not followed by a cure. It ought to be remembered, however, that the same frag- ment may be touched by the probe in several different places, when it is very extensive. If there are several dead pieces of bone, situated at a distance from each other, each of them is ge- nerally accompanied with a distinct swelling, and sinuses. Frequently, these fragments are so concealed, that they cannot be felt with a probe; but, their existence may then be suspected from the ulcers not healing, which can be ascribed to nothing else. It is also necessary to distinguish with the greatest attention the different stages of the dis- ease. The first stage may be considered as ex- isting, when the attack is yet recent, and the inflammation and its concomitant symptoms, the pain, swelling, and symptomatic fever, prevail in a high degree, and when no suppuration has taken place, or at least no discharge of matter. The second period, in which the dead bone is undergoing the process of separation, is indi- cated by a diminution of the inflammation, a par- tial subsidence of the swelling, and the discharge of purulent matter. When a probe is passed into the ulcers, the bone is felt bare, and dry, and, towards the limits of the swelling, it is rough, where, as will be afterwards noticed, an excavation is formed. Every part of the bone, however, which is to be detached, still continues adherent to the rest of the living bone. At length, the surgeon knows, that the disease has reached its last stage, or that in which the dead portion of bone is entirely separated, when sufficient time for the completion of this separa- tion has expired, and when the dead bone can be distinguished with the finger, probe, or even the ej'e, to be loose and free from all connexions. Although a necrosis must generally be classed with diseases which are serious and of long dura- tion ; yet, the character of the disorder is not essentially bad, since it is often cured by nature, or with the assistance of surgery. Confident hopes of a cure may be entertained when the necrosis is confined to the external part of a bone ; when it is simple and of moderate extent; when it is not situated in a bone, destined for important uses, or near any viscus, or organ, that may be injured by it; and when it proceeds from an external cause, and the general health is good. On the contrary, the cure is difficult, and