<i!>0 II YD interior ol the eye begins to suppurate, the swell- ing of the eye-lids decreases, and the eve-hall diminishes in size, and returns gradually into the orbit. I his state ot suppuration may be Known by observing, that the dressings are smeared with a viscid lymph, blended with a portion oi the humours of the eye, which inces- santly issue from the centre of the cornea; and by noticing the appearance of the margin of the recjsion, which is changed into a circle of a whitish substance, resembling the rind of bacon, which is afterwards detached, like a slough, so as to leave a small ulcer, of a very healthy co- lour. This ulcer, as well as the whole eye-ball, contracts, and becomes entirely cicatrized, leav- ing every opportunity for the placing of an arti- ficial eye between the eyelids and the stump of the eye-ball. If a mild inflammation and suppuration in the interior of the eye should not take place on the fifth day, Scarpa exposes the eye to the air, or removes a circular portion of the cornea, half a line in breadth, or little more, by means of the forceps and curved scissors. The foregoing practice is certainly preferable to that advised by Richter, who, when the eyesight is lost, and the object is merely to discharge the humours, and let the eye collapse, sometimes makes a crucial division of the cornea, and removes the four flaps or angles, or even cuts away the whole of the anterior part of the eye-ball through the sclerotica. (Anfangsgr. ~B. 3, ^>.404.) In order to lessen the bulk of the eye, the late Mr. Ford, in one instance, passed a seton through the front of the organ with apparent success. (See Med. Communication/;, Vol. 1.) Consult Mauchart, Dr. Paraccntesi Oculi, Tub. 1744. Conradi, Iltmdbuch der Pathol. Anal. p. 523. Fiel-iz, in Hufeland's Journ. 4 B. p. 203. Flnjani, Collezione d' Osservazioni, 7'. ], Ohs. 43 Gendron, Mai. des Ycu.v, T. 2. Louis, in Mem. de l'Acad: dc Chir. T. 5, 4to. Marchan, in Journ. de Med. T. 32, p. 65. Terras, op. cit. Vol. 45, p. 239. Scarpa, Sulle principali Malattie degli Ocelli, Cap. 13. C. P. Bcger, Dc Hydroptliahnia, Haller Disp. Chir. 1, 575. A. Sarvjcy, Dc Paracentesi Oculi in Hydropthalmia ct Amblyopia Sc- num; Haller, Disp. Chir. 1,587, Tub. 1744. Benedict, de Morins Humoris Vitrei. Luke, Diss. de Hy dr ophthalmia, Jen. 1803. Richter, Anfangsgr. B. 3, p. 392, §c. Got. 1795. Beer Lehrc von den Avgcnkr. B. 2, Wien. 1817. J. War dr op. Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Chap. 18 and 40, Vol. 2, 8vo. Loud. 1818. B. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 195, p. 200,, ^c. 8vo. Loud. 1820. HY DROPS, (from uSojp, water.) A dropsy, or morbid accumulation of water. For hydrops articuli, refer to Joints, Diseases of; for hy- drops oculi, see the foregoing article. With regard to hydrops pectoris, hydrothorax, or dropsy of the chest, as it is altogether a medi- cal case, an account of its symptoms and treat- ment will hardly be required in this Dictionary. The only concern, which a surgeon has with the disease, is being occasionally required to make an opening for the discharge of the water. (See Paracentesis Thoracis.) HYP IIYDROSARCOCELE. (from 0, wa- ter; aa{f, flesh; and xt|Ar;, a tumor.) A sar- cocele, attended with a collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis. HYMEN IMPERFORATE. The in- conveniences brought on by such a cause and the mode of relief, are explained in the article Va gin a. A continuation of the hymen over a part of j the orifice of the meatus urinarius may produce j great pain and difficulty in making water, and symptoms, which may give rise to suspicion of there being a stone in the bladder. For a case illustrating the truth of this observation, see Warner's Cases in Surgery, p 276, Edit. 4. HYPOPIUlVf, or HYPOPYON. (from vtto, under ; and wjov, pus.) Bv hypopium (says Scarpa) I imply with all surgeons, that accumulation of a glutinous, yel- lowish fluid, like pus, which takes place in the ■ anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and, frequently, also in the posterior one, in conse- quence of severe, acute ophthalmy, particularly the internal species. Though severe, acute ophthalmy • mostly affects particularly the external parts of the I eye; yet, it occasionally invades, with equal j violence, both the external and internal coats of 1 this organ, especially the choroides and uvea, j If such inflammation be not promptly checked, by chirurgical means, coagulating lymph isextra- vasated from the highly inflamed choroides and uvea, and gradually, as it is effused into the j cavity of the eye, it passes through the pupil, into the chambers of the aqueous humour, and descends to the bottom of the anterior one, so as to fill sometimes one third, sometimes one half j of this space; and, occasionally, to occupy it to j such a height, as totally7 to conceal the iris and ji pupil This viscid matter of hypopium, though com- monly7 called pus, Scarpa regards as coagulating } lymph. The symptoms, portending an extra- | vasation of coagulating lymph in the eye, or an ! hypopium, are the same as those which occur in I the highest stage of violent acute ophthalmy: | viz. prodigious tumefaction of the eyelids ; the same redness and swelling of the conjunctiva, as in chemosis; burning beat and pain in the eye; pains in the eye-brow and nape of_ the neck ; fever, restlessness, aversion to the faintest light, and a contracted state of the pupil. As soon as the hy7popium begins to form, m (says Scarpa) a yellowish semi-lunar streak makes its appearance at the bottom of the ante- | rior chamber, and, regularly7, as the glutinous j fluid is secreted from the inflamed internal mem* Its branes'of the eye, so as to pass through the pu- j pil, and fall into the aqueous humour, it in- I creases in all dimensions, and gradually7 obscures '» the iris, first at its inferior part, next where it I forms the pupil, and lastly, the whole eircum- i ferenee of this membrane. As long as the in- flammatory stage of violent ophthalmy lasts, the ;| hypopium never fails to enlarge; but, imme-fl diately this stage ceases, and the ophthalmy f| enters its second period, or that dependent on local weakness, the quantity of coagulating It lymph, forming the hypopium, leaves off in-Bj creasing, .and, from that moment, is disposed to | diminish.