292 CATARACT. which lm6 already existed a long while, and the formation of which has been only gradual, par- ticularly, in an old subject: for, the first case is more frequently owing to a concealed slow kind of inflammation, than is generally supposed. (Vot. cit. p. 314.) Cataracts are also denominated ripr, or ini- ripe ; terms, which have often led to the error of supposing, that every cataract must ripen in time. A cataract is called ripe, as soon ns it is in a state, which will admit of no increase, whether the eye- sight be completely lost, or only diminished, and whether the pupil be entirely occupied by it, or not. Thus, says Beer, the dry-husked cut"’'act, in its most advanced stage, never totally fills the pupil, and the patient can sometimes even dis- cern colours; nor does the limiting capsular- lenticular cataract fill the pup 1 in a greater de- gree; and yet both these cases are completely ripe for an operation. On the other hand, to the unripe cataracts belong the central cataract of the capsule and lens, the posterior capsular cataract, and the slight degree if Lymph-cataract Most of these unripe cataracts, after, perhaps, remaining for years in this state, not unfrequently all on a sudden become complete, upon an accidental and slight attack of ophthalmy; but, sometimes, they remain unchanged during life. (Beer, B. 2, p. 316.) Another very useful and practical division of cataracts is into those which are called simple local, and into others, which receive the name of campVcuted. A simple local cataract is so de- nominated by Beer, when the patient is in every other respect perfectly healthy, and no disease prevails in any other part, however distant from the eye. A cataract may be complicated in three ways; for, it may be attended either with other simultaneous disease in the eye itself, or its ap- pendages, when the case is termed a local com- plicated cataract; or there is some other disease prevailing in the system, either unconnected, or connected, with the production of the cataract, which then has the epithets general complicated applied to it; or, lastly, both descriptions of complication exist together, the complete com- plicated cataract. Amongst the local complicated cases is the adherent ca/uract. The preternatural cohesion may be one of the anterior layer of the capsule with the uvea, produced by effused lymph; it may consist in a very firm connexion of the posterior layer of the capsule with the membrana hyaloidea; or it may be an unusually close co- hesion of the whole of the capsule with the lens; or, says Beer, all the three species of adhesion may exist together, (p. 318.) The adhesion of the capsule of the lens to the uvea (synechia posterior) is generally obvious enough; for, as Beer has observed, the pu- pillary margin of the iris is not completely cir- cular, and is more angular the stronger the light is. The cataract lies close to the uvea, and is very white. The motions of the iris are more or less obstructed, and, when the adhesion is ex- tensive, are quite prevented. The perception of light is indistinct, often very faint, and sometimes entirely lost, for the preternatural adhesion is always the consequence of previous internal ophthalmy. which, besides occasioning opacity of the Jens and its capsule, readily produces other serious effects upon the retina, the choroid coat, and vitreous humour, quite adequate to account for the loss of sight, and the incapacity of dis- tinguishing the rays of light. When the an- terior layer of the capsule is adherent only at a single point to the uvea, the extent of the ad- hesion may be readily ascertained by artificially dilating the pupil with hvosciamus, or belladonna; and the information, thus obtained, will have great weight in the selection of a method of operating. (Brer, loco ci’.) Some other local complications of cataract are so obvious, that they cannot fail to be understood; as, for instance, its combination with an adhesion of the iris to the cornea {ti/nechia anterior) ; with closure of the pupil, unattended by any adhesion of the uvea to the anterior capsule of the lens (synechia posterior); as in watchmakers, and hysterical, or hypochondriacal subjects, the com- plications with atrophy, hydrophthalmia, cir- sophthalmia, specks and scars upon the cornea, pterygium, and various forms of ophthalmy. According to Beer, the combination of cataract with glaucoma is also readily made out by any- body who has once seen the case ; for the cataract always presents a greenish, and sometimes quite a sea-green colour; it is of prodigious size, so as to project through the pupil towards the cor- nea; the colour of the iris is more or less changed, nearly in the same manner as after iritis; the iris is perfectly motionless; the pupil very7 much expanded and drawn into angles, for the most part, towards the canthi; the lesser circle of the iris is nowhere visible, because it lies concealed , under the far-projecting soft cataract, the light cannot be perceived, though the blinded patient is frequently conscious of false luminous appear- ances within the eye (photopsia); and, lastly, the case is invariably accompanied with more or less of a varicose state of the blood vessels of the eye. The origin of this sort of cataract is constantly attended with severe, obstinate headach. There are, says Beer, two other local com- plications, which are much more difficult to learn before an operation. The first is a cataract com- bined with a dissolution of the vitreous humor (synchipis), the diagnosis of which, indeed, when the affection prevails in a considerable degree, is tolerably easy, as the cataract trembles, and the iris always swings backwards and forwards upon the slightest motion of the ey7e-ball; the globe itself is somewhat affected with atrophy7; the eye is quite spoiled, and feels flaccid and unresisting; the sclerotica, immediately around the cornea, is bluish, as in infants; and, the perception of light is uncertain. On the other hand, when the synchysis is not far advanced, the only sym- ptoms are a suspicious softness of the eye-ball, and a swinging of the iris, when the eye is sud- denly, or violently moved The other complication of cataract, sometimes very difficult to detect previously to an operation, is amaurosis. When, indeed, the pupil is ex- traordinarily large, the iris nearly, or quite mo- tionless, and the patient cannot distinguish day from night, and, of course, not the least glimmer of light, no great powers of divination are re- quired to predict with certainty, that no ope- ration will restore the eyesight, which is abolished not by the cataract, but by7 the existing amau- rosis. On the other hand, when the motions vf