545 gun-shot wounds. T advises the limb to be immediately cut off above the disorganized part. Several facts, in support of tins doctrine, are related by this experienced surgeon in his Memoire sur /« Gangrene Truu- matiqne. (See Mortification.) In that part of the dictionary will be found several additional observations, in favour of the practice adopted and recommended by Larrey, which is so opposite to that inculcated by Sharp, Pott, and the generality of writers. In the article Amputation, I have noticed a particular case of gangrene, which has been pointed out by Mr. Guthrie, as demanding the jarlv performance of amputation, and a devia- ;ion from the old rule of waiting till the mortifi- cation has ceased to spread. (See Guthrie on un-shot Wounds of the Extremities, p. 63, <£-c.) Second case. Convulsions of the wounded Limb. 't is one of Larrey’s doctrines, (though of a rerv questionable description,) that amputation >f the member, performed immediately the first y nip toms of tetanus manifest themselves, inter- upts all communication between the source of he disorder, and the rest of the body. He states, hat the operation unloads the vessels, and thus uts a stop to the tension of the nerves, and to lie convulsions of the muscles. These first ef- ects, he says, are followed by a general col- .psus, which promotes the excretions, sleep, .id the equilibrium of every part of the system, le argues, that the whole of the momentary fin, caused by the operation, cannot increase e existing irritation : besides the sufferings of canus render those of amputation more bear- le. and lessen their intensity, especially, when e principal nerves of the limb are strongly mpressed. Some observations will be made this proposal in the article Tetanus. Third case» Bad Stale of the Discharge. It en happens, that, in gun-shot wounds, com- cated with fractures, notwithstanding the most ilful treatment, the discharge becomes of a d quality; the fragments of bone lie surrounded th the matter, and have not the ienst tendency unite; the patient is attacked with hectic er, and a colliquative diarrhoea. Under these cumstances, life may sometimes lie preserved amputation. Fourth case. Bad State of the Stump. In hos- tls, as Baron Larrey observes, the cure of putations is sometimes prevented by a fever i bad character. The stump swells, the in- uments become at first retracted, and then erted and diseased a good way upward. The ind changes into a fungous ulcer, the eieatri- on of which is hindered by the deep disorder he bone, and the ulceration of the soft parts. • extremity of the bone projects. In order to edy this last evil, it has been proposed to off the projecting part of the bone, and, with • even to amputate all the flesh beyond the I ot the skin Larrey condemns such prac- as unnecessary and dangerous, and he mmends giving nature time to effect the hafion of the diseased projecting part of the *» and heal the wound. (See Memuires de '• Mihiuire, T. 2.) °UN-SHOT wounds of thf. abdomen. hese cases may be divided into two kinds ; only penetrates the parities of the belly, without hurting the contained parts ; the other does mischief also to the viscera. The event of these two kinds of wounds is very different. In the first, little danger is to be expected, if pro- perly treated; but, in the second, the success will be extremely uncertain, for, in many in- stances, nothing can be done for the patient, and, on other occasions, a good deal of art may be employed with advantage. It is observed by Mr. Hunter, that such wounds of the abdomen, as do not injure parts like the stomach, intestines, bladder, ureters, gall-bladder, large blood-vessels, &c. all which contain particular fluids, will generally end well. But, he adds, that there will he a great difference, when the ball has passed with immense velocity, as a slough will be produced; whereas, when the ball has moved with less impetus, there will not be so much sloughing, and the parts will, in some degree, heal by the first intention. Even when the ball occasions a slough, the wound frequently terminates well, the adhesive inflam- mation taking place on the peritoneum, all round the wound, so as to exclude the general cavity of the abdomen from taking part in the inflam- mation. Such is often the favourable event, when the ball, besides entering the abdomen,.has wounded parts like the omentum, mesentery, &c. and gone quite through the body. (Hunter on Inflammation ; Gun-shot Wounds, §(. p. 543.) In gun-shot wounds of the belly, an extrava- sation is apt to take place on the sloughs becom- ing loose, about eight, ten, twelve, or fourteen days, after the accident; but, says Mr. Hunter, although this new symptom is in general very disagreeable, most of the danger is usually over, before it can appear. In the article, Wounds, I have detailed at large the general principles, which should be observed in the treatment of wounds of the belly; con- sequently, it would he superfluous here to go over the whole of this extensive subject again. As a modern writer observes, “ In their treat- ment, the violence of symptoms is to he com- bated more by general means, than by any of the mechanical aids of surgery. The search for extraneous bodies, unless superficially situated, is altogether out of the question, except they can he felt by the probe, as in Ravaton’s case, (C/iiV. d,’Armee, p. 241,) or in other cases of lodgment in the bladder, where they may become the object of secondary operations. Enlarge- ment, or contraction of the original wound, as the case may require, for returning the protruded intestine, securing the intestine itself, and prpr moting the adhesion of the parts, are all that the surgeon lias to do in the way of operation ; and even in this the less he interferes the better. Nature makes wonderful exertions to relieve every injury inflicted upon her, and they are often surprisingly successful, if not injudiciously interfered with. In a penetrating wound of the abdomen, whethet' by gun-shot, or by a cutting instrument, if no protrusion of intestine take place, (and this, it must be observed, in musket or pistol wounds rarely occurs,) the lancet, with its powerful concomitants, abstinence and rest, particularly in the supine posture, are our chief dependence. Great pniu and tension, which usually accompany these wounds, must he re- lieved by IccdtoJ to the abdomen, (if they can hi M N