122 ANEURISM terminate in an obliteration of the tube of the vessel, no aneurism has been the consequenoe. Pelletan accounts for the frequency of popli had also another aneurism of the popliteal artery, equal in size to a walnut. (Biiytrr's 'finite rlts Maladiet Chirw x cneiaii accounts lor me irequency oi popli- Maladiet Cltirurgicales, IXc. p. 102 T. 2 ) The teal aneurisms somewhat differently from Riche- most remarkable case, however, proving the ex- rami: speaking of the two principal motions of istence of a disposition to aneurisms in the whole the knee, viz. extension and flexion, he re- marks, that the first of these is so limited, that it is actually an incipient flexion, necessarily pro- duced by the curvature backward both of the con- dyles of the femur, and those of the tibia. This curvature, which would seem to protect the po- pliteal artery against any dangerous elongation, that might otherwise be caused by a forcible ex- tension of the joint, becomes the very source of such an elongation in persons, who are accustom- ed to keep their limbs bent, or, who, from this state, proceed hastily and violently to extend the leg. The arterial tubes are really shortened, when the limbs are in the state of flexion, and lengthened, when the extension of the members renders it necessary. Hence, says Pelletan it is manifest, that an habitual shortened state of these vessels, and their sudden elongation, must be at- tended with hazard of rupturing their parietes. (Clinique Chirurgicale, Turn. 1. p. 1 12.) The opinion of Pelletan, however, is quite un- tenable ; because Mr. Hodgson has several times repeated the experiment mentioned by Richerand, and found, as this gentleman did, that the coats of the artery were never lacerated, unless the degree of violence had been such as to rupture the ligaments of the knee. (O/i Diseases oj Ar- teries, iXe. p. 64.) Aneurisms are exceedingly common in the aorta, and they are particularly often met with in the popliteal artery. The vessels, which are next to these the most usually affected, are the crural, common carotid, subclavian, and brachial arte- ries. The temporal and occipital arteries, and those of the leg, foot, forearm, and hand, are far less frequently the situations of the present dis- ease. But, although it is true, that the larger arteries are the most subject to the ordinary spe- cies of aneurisms, the smaller arteries seem to be more immediately concerned in the formation of one peculiar aneurismal disease, now well known by the name of the aneurism, by anastomosis, of which I shall hereafter speak. According to surgical writers, the causes of aneurisms operate either by weakening the arte- rial parietes, or by increasing the lateral impulse of the blood against the sides of these vessels. It is said to be in both these ways, that the disease is occasioned by violent contusions of the arte- ries, the abuse of spirituous drinks, frequent mer- curial courses, fits of anger, rough exercise, ex- ertions in lifting heavy burdens, &c. In certain persons, aneurisms appear to depend upon a par- ticular organic disposition. Of this description was the subject, whose arteries, on examination after death, were found by Lancisi afl’ected with several aneurisms of various sizes. I have known a person have an aneurism of one axillary artery, which disease got spontaneously well, but. was soon afterwards followed by a similar swelling of the opposite axillary artery, which last affliction proved fatal. I have seen another instance, in which an aneurism of the popliteal artery was ac- companied with one of the femoral in the other limb. Boyer mentions a patient, who died of a femoral aneurism in la Charite, at Baris, and who arterial system, is mentioned by Pelletan. “ J’ai pourtant vu plusieurs fois ces nombreux aneu- rismes occupant indistinctement les grosses ou les petites arteres, mais surtout cellos des capa- cites: j’en ai compld soixunle-trois sur un sml homme, depuis le volume d’une uveline jusqu’a celui de la moitid d’un oeuf de poule.” (Clinique Chirurgicale, Tom. 2, p. i.) Aneurisms, and those diseases of the coats of arteries, which precede the formation of aneurism, are much less frequently met with in women than men. (Lassus Futh l>gir, Chir. T. 1 p. 34^.) A few years before John Hunter died, Mr. Wilson heard him remark, that he had only met with one woman affected with true aneurism (Anu- tomy, Pathology, Cj-c of the Vascular System, p. 376.) Mr. Hodgson drew up the following table, exhibiting the comparative frequency of aneurisms in the two sexes in different cases of this disease, and also in the different arteries of the body, as deduced from examples, either seen by himself, during the lives of the patients, or soon after their death. Of the ascending aorta, the ar- teria innominata, and arch of the aorta - - - Descending aorta Carotid artery - Subclavian and axillary - Inguinal artery - - - Femoral and popliteal - Total. Males. Females. i 21 16 5 8 7 1 2 2 5 5 12 12 15 14 1 63 56 7 This table does not include aneurisms arising from wounded arteries, nor aneurisms from anas- tomosis. (See Ho Igsnn’s Treatise on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 87.) It was observed by Morgagni, and it has been noticed in this country, that popliteal aneurisms occur with particular frequency in postilions and coachmen, whose employments oblige them to sit a good deal with their knees bent. In France, the men, who clean out the dissecting rooms, and procure dead bodies for anatomists, are said al- most all of them to die of aneurismal diseases. Richerand remarks, that he never knew any of these persons, who were not addicted to drinking, and he comments on the debility, which their in- temperance and disgusting business together must tend to produce. (Nosogr. Chir. T. A. p- 74, Edit. 2.) Aneurisms are supposed by Roux to be much more frequent in England than France; a cir- cumstance, which, before he proves it to be a fact, he vaguely refers to the mode of life, and kind of labour, to which a large part of the population of England are subjected. Indeed, he connects this surmise with a reason for the very cultivated state of this part of knowledge in England, thinks, that we have been placed in favourable circumstances for perfecting the treatment of aneurisms, and