996 SUPPURATION. skin before poultices can have much effect, for they can only aflect that part. The ease of the patient, however, should be considered, and we find, that fomentations and poultices are often beneficial-in this way. By keeping the cuticle moist and warm, the sensitive operations of the nerves of the parts are soothed. On the con- trary, if the inflamed skin is allowed to dry, the inflammation is increased, and as suppuration is probably not checked by the above treatment, it ought to be put in practice. As warmth ex- cites action, the fomentation should be as warm as the patient can bear, without inconvenience. (Hunter.) “ The local treatment in phlegmonous ab- scesses (as Professor Thomson observes) is still more simple, than that by which we endeavour to procure resolution. It consists almost solely in the application of a moderate degree of warmth and moisture to the inflamed part, either by means of fomentations, or poultices. The manner in which these means act in promoting suppuration is unknown. Independently of their temperature, it seems very doubtful, whether fo- mentations and poultices have any power of pro- moting suppuration in the parts, to which they are applied. They keep the cuticle moist and warm, they promote perspiration, they sooth and allay pain in many inflammations, and these are probably the only immediate effects which they produce. The rest is the work of nature. In suppurations, attended by very severe pain, the use of warm fomentations is often found to afford singular relief, not only by their effect in easing pain, but also by their seeming to shorten the duration of the suppurative stage. In the cases of suppuration, in which they give relief, they should be repeated every four or six hours. The most common way of employing them, is by wringing linen, or woollen cloths, out of warm water, and applying these to the inflamed part, of as high a temperature as the feelings of the patient can bear. Decoctions of herbs were for- merly much employed in the way of embrocation, and were then, and are still by many practitioners, supposed to possess peculiar virtues in promoting suppuration. Whether embrocations with the narcotic herbs might not in some cases be be- neficial, by producing a sedative effect in allaying pain, I am unable to say, though I am inclined to believe, that even they act chiefly by their warmth and moisture. In cases where you find it necessary to use an embrocation with herbs, the flowers of camomile may in general be sub- stituted in place of the leaves or flowers of almost every other plant. These flowers readily imbibe and retain moisture. They are, when moist, of a soft consistence, and can be easily moulded to the figure of the parts, to which they are applied.” ( Thomson’s Lectures, p. 333.) Oatmeal, crumb of bread, and especially linseed meal, are the in- gredients mostly preferred in this country for emollient poultices. When bread is used, it is generally boiled in milk. The observations, however, which have been offered on poultices in another place, are here equally applicable. (See Inflammation.) OF THE TIME WHEN AESCESSES SHOULD RE that part of their cavity, which is next to the skin, more quickly than the bottom, they must become, in some degree, tapering towards the latter part, with their greatest breadth imme- diately under the skin. This shape of an ab- scess, when allowed to take place, is favourable to its healing, for it puts the bottom, which is the seat of the disease, more upon a footing with the mouth of the abscess, than it otherwise could be. As the bottom, or part, where the abscess began, is more or less in a diseased state; and as the1 J parts between the seat of the abscess and the ex- ternal surface are sound parts, having only al- lowed a passage for the pus, they, of course, have a stronger disposition to heal, than the bottom has. To keep the mouth of an abscess from healing before its bottom, the collection of matter should be allowed to break of itself; for, although ab- scesses in general only open by a small orifice, more especially when sound, yet, in such cases, the skin over the general cavity of the matter is so thinned, that it has very little tendency to heal, and often ulcerates and makes a free open- | irig. If the latter event should not spontaneously occur, it may now be more easily obtained by the ; interference of the surgeon. Abscesses, which are the most disposed to heal favourably, are the quickest in their progress to : the skin, and the matter comes to the surface al- most at a point; the swelling is not so conical ( as in other cases, and when it bursts, the orifice is exceedingly small. On the other hand, when there is an indolence in the progress of the ab- J scess, the collection spreads more, or distends | the surrounding parts in a greater degree, in j consequence of their not being so firmly united j by inflammation, in the one as they are in the [ other instance; nor will ulceration so readily • take the lead, and the matter will come to the ‘ ( skin by a broad surface, so as to thin a large por- tion of the cutis. (Hunter.) It may be set down as a general axiom, that all phlegmonous abscesses should be allowed to ; break, and not be opened by the surgeon. \Y hen punctured unnecessarily, or prematurely', they j never lieal so favourably'as when left to them- selves. Particular cases, however, should be opened, II as soon as the existence of matter is ascertained. J Abscesses should only be allowed to burst of j themselves, when the confinement of the matter can do no mischief. Abscesses in the abdomen, or thorax, under the cranium, near the eye, or in joints, should be mostly opened very soon. When suppuration takes place beneath ligamentous ex- pansions, or aponeuroses, which invariably retard the progress of the matter to the surface of the j body', an early opening should be made. If this be not done, the matter spreads to a great extent, ^ t, separating such ligamentous expansions from the muscles, and the muscles from each other, and, as the pus cannot get to the surface of the body, i the length of the disorder is of course increased. When matter is so situated, as to be liable to in- y sinuate itself into the chest, or abdomen, or into ^ the capsular ligaments of the joints, it is highly proper to prevent this extension of mischief, by ^ m-il-in.r n timrdv frneninrr into the abscess.