11 (30 VENEREAL DISEASE. in an hospital. (Atttalini, in Manuals di Chi- rurgitij p. 64; Milano, lslv.) Stimulating the slcin with the antimonial ointment, is also sometimes a good practice. The suppuration of buboes frequently cannot be prevented by any known means. They are then to be treated, in some respects, like any other abscess. Before opening buboes, Mr. Hunter conceived it advantageous to let the skin become as thin as possible, because a large opening would then be unnecessary, and no measures requisite for keeping the skin from closing, before the bottom of the sore had healed. Mr. Hunter was doubtful, whether the ap- plication of mercury should be continued through the whole 'suppuration. He was in- clined to continue it ; but, in a smaller quan- tity. There has been much dispute', whether a bubo should be opened, or allowed to burst of itself, and whether the opening should be made with a cutting instrument, or caustic. On this subject, Mr. Hunter remarks, that there is no peculiarity in a venereal abscess to make one practice more eligible than another. The surgeon, he says, should be guided in some degree, by the patient. Some patients are afraid of caustics ; others, of cutting instruments. But, when the surgeon has the choice, Mr. Hunter expresses a preference to opening the bubo with a lancet, in which me- thod, no skin is lost. But he observes, that when a bubo is very large, and there will be a great deal of loose skin, after the discharge of the matter, lie thinks, that caustic may, perhaps, be better, as it will destroy some of the redun- dant skin, and occasion less inflammation, than what is caused by an incision. The potassa cum calce is the caustic commonly employed. After the bubo lias been opened, surgeons usually poultice it, as long as the discharge and inflammation are considerable, and then they employ dressings, which must be of a quality, adapted to circumstances. In the mean while, mercury is continued, both to make the bubo heal, and prevent the bad effects, which might otherwise arise from the matter being continually absorbed. The mercurial course is to be pursued, till the sore is no longer venereal. But, in general, since this point is difficult to ascertain, Mr. Hunter advises the continuance of mercury till the part has healed, and even somewhat longer, if the bubo has healed very quickly; for, the constitution is apt to become contaminated. However, he did not approve of this long use of mercury in all cases ; because buboes often as- sume, besides the venereal, other dispositions, which mercury cannot cure, and will even ex- asperate. Sometimes the sores, when they are losing, or entirely deprived of the venereal disposition, become changed into ulcers of another kind, and, most probably of various kinds. How far it is a disease arising from a venereal taint, and the effects of a mercurial course jointly, says Mr. Hunter, is not certain. He suspected, however, that the nature of the part, or constitution, had a principal share in the case, and, I believe, few surgeons of the present time entertain any doubt (See Maihius on the Mercurial Disease, Ed. 3.) Mr. Hunter observes, that such diseases make the cure of the venereal affection much more un- certain, because, when the sore becomes station- ary, or the mercury begins to disagree, we are ready to suspect, that the virus is gone; but, this (he supposes) is not always the case. He had seen some buboes exceedingly painful and tender to almost every thing that touched them, and the more mild the dressings were, the more painful the parts became. In some instances, the skin alone becomes diseased. The ulceration spreads to the sur- rounding integuments, while a new skin forms in the centre, and keeps pace with the ulcera- tion, so that an irregular sore, which Mr. Hun- ter compares with a worm-eaten groove, is formed all round. It appears only to have the power of contaminating the parts, which have riot yet been affected; and those which have, readily heal. According to the same author, when buboes become stationary, and are little inclined to spread, attended with a sinus, or two, hemlock, joined with bark, is the medicine most frequently serviceable. It is to be used both externally and internally. Mr. Hunter also speaks favourably of sarsaparilla, sea-bathing, and sea-water poul- tices. He states, that at the Lock Hospital, gold refiners’ water has been found an useful ap- plication ; and that in some cases, benefit has arisen from drinking large quantities of orange- juice, and from the use of mezereon. Lues Venerea. Surgeons imply, that a lues venerea has taken place, when the venereal virus has been absorbed into the circulation. Mr. Hunter does not think the epithet constitutional strictly proper in its application to this form of the venereal disease. By constitutional disease, he observes, he should understand that, in which every part of the body is acting in one way, as in fevers of all kinds; but, the venereal poison seems to be only diffused through the circulating fluids, and, as it were, to force certain parts of the body to assume the venereal action, which action is perfectly local. To use Mr. Hunter’s phrase, it takes place in different parts in a regular succession of susceptibilities. Only a few parts are acting at the same time; and a person may be constitutionally affected in this way, and yet almost every function may be perfect. The venereal poison is generally conveyed into the system from a chancre. It may, also, according to Mr. Hunter’s doctrine, be absorbed from a gonorrhoea. There is likewise a possi- bility of its getting into the circulation from the surface of the body, without any previous ulcer- ation. According to his doctrine, it may be ab- sorbed from common ulcers, without necessarily rendering them venereal; and it may be taken up from wounds, in which cases, it generally first causes ulceration. Venereal Ulcers. In consequence cf the blood being contaminated with real venereal pus, it might be expected, that the local effects, thus produced, would be similar in their nature to those producing them. Mr. Hunter believed, that this is not the case. He notices, that the 1 1 _ a _