742 JOINTS. becomes exceedingly severe particularly at night, when the patient is continually roused from his sleep by painful startings of the limb. Some- times, lie experiences a degree of relief in a par- ticular position of the joint, and no other. As the pain increases in intensity, it becomes more fixed. In the greater number of instances, it is referred both to the hip and knee, and the pain in the latter joint is generally the most severe. At other times, there is pain in the knee, and none in the hip. A boy, in St. George’s hospi- tal, complained of pain in the inside of the thigh, near the middle; and another patient referred the pain to the sole of the foot. Wherever the pain is situated, it is aggravated by the motion of the joint, and especially by whatever occasions pressure of the ulcerated cartilaginous surfaces against each other. (Brodie's Pathol. Obs. p. 139.) The early symptoms of disease in the hip- joint are only strongly delineated to such prac- titioners, as have acquired the necessary informa- tion relative to this part of surgery, from careful study, and extensive experience. We shall next trace those characters of the present disease, which serve to denote its ex- istence. It is a curious circumstance, that when the functions of a limb are obstructed by disease, the bulk of the member generally diminishes, and the muscles become emaciated. Nearly as soon as the least degree of lameness can be per- ceived, the leg and thigh have actually wasted, and their circumference has diminished. If the surgeon make pressure on the front of the joint, a little on the outside of the femoral artery, after it has descended below the os pubis, great pain will be experienced. “ Soon after the commencement of the com- plaint, (as Mr. Brodie remarks,) the hip-joint is found to be tender, whenever pressure is made on it either before, or behind. The absorbent glands become enlarged, and occasionally there is a slight degree of general tumefaction in the groin.” The same gentleman has also adverted to the curious circumstance of there being in some cases a tenderness of the parts, to which, though not diseased themselves, the pain is re- ferred from sympathy with the disease of the hip. This occurrence he has observed in the knee several times, and in one instance in the course of the peronoeal nerve. He has also seen a slight degree of puffy swelling of the knee in a case, in which pain was referred to this joint, in consequence of disease of the hip. (P. 142, 143.) The limping of the patient is a clear proof, that something about the limb is wrong, and, if such limping cannot be imputed to diseased ver- tebrae, or some recent accident, and if, at the same time, the above-mentioned emaciation of the limb exists, there is great cause to suspect, that the hip is diseased, particularly, when the pain is augmented by pressing the front of the acetabulum. Diseased vertebrae, perhaps, always produce a paralytic affection of both legs at once, and they do not cause painful sensations about the knee, as the hip-disease does. The increased length of the limb, a symptom that has been noticed by all practitioners since De Haen, is a very remarkable and curious oc- currence, in the early stage of the present dis- ease. This symptom is easily detected by a comparison of the condyles of the os femoris, the trochanter major, and malleoli, of the dis- eased limb, with those parts of the opposite member, taking care that the patient’s pelvis is evenly situated. The thing is the more striking, as the increased length of the member is fre- quently as much as four inches. The rationale of this fact, John Hunter used to explain by the diseased side of the pelvis becoming lower, than the other. (Crowther, p. 26u.) The same thing had also been noticed by Falconer. (On Ischias, p. 9) long before the period, when Mr. Crowther printed his second edition. It is easy (says Mr. Brodie) to understand how the crista of one ilium becomes visibly de- pressed below the level of the other, when the position is remembered, in which the patient places himself when he stands erect. “ Fie supports the weight of his body upon the sound limb, the hip and knee of which are in conse- quence maintained in the state of extension. At the same time, the opposite limb is inclined for- ward, and the foot on the side of the disease is placed on the ground considerably anterior to the other, not for the purpose of supporting the su- perincumbent weight, but for that of keeping the person stead)', and preserving the equilibrium. Of course, this cannot be done, without the pelvis on the same side being depressed. The inclina- tion of the pelvis is necessarily attended with a lateral curvature of the spine, and hence one shoulder is higher than the other, and the whole figure in some degree distorted.” (Pathol. Obs. p. 146.) These effects, says Mr. Brodie, are in general all removed by the patient’s lying in bed a few weeks, except when the deformity has continued a long time in a young growing sub- ject. In justice to the memory of the late respected Dr. Albers, of Bremen, I ought here to men- tion, that he appears in his work on Coxalgia, to have first pointed out the deformity of the spine in this disease, and the reason of such change, the tenor of his observations upon this point agreeing with those subsequently made by Mr. Brodie. An appearance of elongation of the limb is not exclusively confined to the early stage of the morbus coxarius : it may attepd other cases. I remember seeing in one of the wards of St. Bar- tholomew’s Flospital, a little girl, with a diseased knee, whose pelvis was considerably distorted in this manner, so that the limb of the same side appeared much elongated. Her hip-joint was quite sound. This case was pointed out to Mr. Lawrence and myself by Mr. Cother, of Glou- cester. Volpi, Albers, and several other foreign writ- ers, point out the fact, that the eariy stage of this disease is sometimes attended with an ap- pearance of elongation, sometimes with that of a shortening of the limb. An explanation of the circumstance is given by Mr. Brodie, as follows: “ In a few cases, where the patient is in the erect position, it may be observed, that the foot, which belongs to the affected limb, is not inclined more forward, than the other, but the toes only are in contact with the ground, and the heel raised, at