EAR. 405 inference was, that the chair, on which she sat, communicated to her legs and back a certain im- pulse, which made her conscious of the motion of the door. The dissection of the ears of deaf and dumb persons has evinced some facts, explanatory of the cause of the loss of hearing. Amongst other things, it appears, that complete deafness, whether congenital, or acquired, more frequently depends upon morbid alterations of the soft parts, than upon any irregularity in the formation of the bones. Thus, in the body of a person, who had been deaf and dumb while living, Hoffmann found the auditory nerve diminished in size, while every other part of the organ was perfectly natural. Arnemann found the nerve harder, than common. Dr. Haighton met with an instance, in which the vestibulum was filled with a caseous sub- stance. (A case of original deafness, in Mem. if the Med. Society, Vol. 3, p. 1 —15.) Duver- ney and Sandifort found the auditory nerve strongly compressed by a steatoma. In one case, Itard found every part of the ear apparently so natural, that the deafness could not be ascribed to paralysis of the nerve. In another, the in- firmity depended upon obstruction of the passages. In a third, the cavity of the tympanum, and the vestibulum, contained small portions of calcareous matter. He has also seen the tympanum filled with a thick yellow lymph, or a thin fluid en- closed in membranous cells. In the dissection of the body of a deaf and dumb person, Rosen- thal noticed, amongst other remarkable circum- stances, a greater hardness of^the auditory, than of the facial nerve, and preternatural firmness of j the medulla oblongata. Thickening of the mem- brane of the tympanum. The bony roof of the cavity of the tympanum not thicker than paper, and just over the junction of the malleus with the incus, the bony substance was so absorbed, that an appearance like that of membrane alone remained. The mastoid cells, cavity of the tympanum, and the eustachian tubes, contained a limpid yellow fluid. In the tympanum, the periosteum was thickened, forming small cells, around the ossi- cula, which of were of their natural structure. Nothing particular was remarked in the laby- rinth. In a small proportion of instances, the above ] degree of deafness has been traced to anomaly in the structure of the solid parts. Thus, Mun- i dini found the cochlea composed of only one circle and a half. (Opusc. Acad. Bonon, 1791, T. 7, ' p. 422.) Valsalva found the stapes adherent to I t the fenestraovalis. (De Aure Hurnand, cup. 11); and Reimarns the ossicula entirely wanting. { (Kunstriebc der Thiere, p. 57.) In the first degree of deafness, above described, - which, when congenital, must excite suspicion of serious malformation of the organ, and abolition of the nervous influence, and when acquired in- dicates a complete injury of the functions of the nerve, the prognosis, as Rosenthal observes, must be unfavourable. Nor can it be otherwise m the second congenital degree of the disease, though only a partial imperfection of the organ and nerve can here be supposed. On the other hand, when the latter degree is acquired, there is more prospect of relief, because merely a partial u deration in the soft parts is to be suspected. 2. Hardness oj hearing. Rosenthal also di- stinguishes several degrees of, what is termed, hardness of hearing. In the first, the patient cannot hear a distant noise, and especially high tones; but, he can perceive, though it is true, not in a very distinct manner, articulated sounds, when the voice is a good deal raised. In the se- cond degree, he hears and distinguishes both high and low tones very well, and also words, but only when the voice is somewhat raised. These two cases are better understood, inasmuch as it is tolerably well ascertained, that the im- mediate cause of the infirmity is some alteration in that part of the organ, which serves as a con- ductor for the vibrations of sound, or else an in- creased sensibility of the nerve, all the internal ear being in other respects right. Amongst alterations of the conducting parts of the organ, Rosenthal comprehends : 1. A total obliteration of the meatus auditorius externus, its imperforation, or complete absence. These cases may almost always be detected by a superficial examination, the patient only hearing when some solid bodies are placed between his teeth, while his dull perception of sounds does not appear to be much lessened when the ear is covered. 2. Diseases of the cavity of the tympanum, as inflammation of its membranous lining, caries of its parietes, or collections of blood, pus. or other fluid, in its cavity. Rosenthal thinks there can be no doubt, that inflammation and suppuration in the tympanum are much more frequent, than is generally supposed, the former affection being often mistaken for a slight attack of rheumatism. In dissecting aged subjects, he has frequently found the membrane of the tympanum thickened and opaque, and he could only impute this ap- pearance to previous inflammation. After detailing a case, illustrative of the sym- ptoms of inflammation within the tympanum, and a few observations on caries, and collections of fluid in that cavity, Rosenthal notices the hardness of hearing, connected with nervous irritability, in the treatment of which case, he insists upon the advantage that would result from a knowledge of the particular species of morbid excitement prevailing in the patient. But, as nothing very certain can be made out on this point, and only conjectures can follow some dissections of bodies, that the affection consists either in a determination of blood to the part, or in a partial paralysis of the auditory nerve, the exact nature and form of which are quite incomprehensible, it is absolutely necessary to attend solely to the diagnosis of the nervous affection in general. This diagnosis will be fa- cilitated; 1st. If the patient has been previously very sensible to the impression of certain tones, or sound in general. 2dly. If the power of hear- ing has been lost all on a sudden, without any mark of inflammation. 3dly. If the affection coincides with other nervous disorders. 3. Alteration, or Diminution of Hearing. Be- tween the most perfect hearing, congenital, or acquired, and this point of diminution of the faculty of hearing, Rosenthal observes, there are a great many degrees, the cause of which is the more difficult to comprehend, as the circum- stances of structure, which enable every part to perform its functions with freedom and perfection, are not yet made out. If, says he, it were in