JOINTS. 733 apsular ligament; yet, though the occurrence :ouUl not be hindered, no harm resulted from the extravasation, which was absorbed, without having ■reated the smallest inconvenience. (Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 354.) White Swelling.—The white swelling, or spina entosa, as it was at one time not unfrequently ailed, in imitation of the Arabian writers, IIhazes nd Avicenna, has been a name indiscriminately ipplied to many diseases, which differ widely in heir nature, curability, and treatment. Wise- nan war, the first who used the term White- Iwelling; and if the expression did not confuse ogether complaints of very different kinds, not nuch fault could be found with it, because it mquestionably conveys an idea of one mark of ome of these distempers, which is, that notwith- . tanding the increase of size in the joint, the , kin is generally not inflamed, but retains its natural colour. (Pott.) The name, therefore, appears objectionable, inly inasmuch as it has tended to prevent the ntroduction of a sufficient number of well founded rnd necessary distinctions. Systematic writers lave generally been content with a distinction nto two kinds, viz. rheumatic, and scropliulous. The last species of the disease they also di- itinguish into such tumors, as primarily affect the >ones, and then the ligaments and soft parts; md into other cases, in which the cartilages, Jgaments, and soft parts become diseased, before jfj here is any morbid affection of the bones. Mr. Brodie has endeavoured to form a more R correct classification of the different complaints, k o which the term white-swelling is applied; and §1 lis descriptions are valuable, because confirmed If i >y extensive observation, and numerous dissec- M ions. With respect to the disease beginning in • : he ligaments, if the capsular ligaments be put H mt of consideration, it is, as this gentleman ob- it } .erves, a rare occurrence, and he has never met |1 vith a case, tn which the fact was proved by dis- t ■ section. (Pathol. and Surgical Ohs. p. 7.) 1. The first case is inflammation of the syno- ► dal membrane, as described in the foregoing |j rages, especially that form of the disease, which H jften arises from cold, and constitutes the dis- || i ;ase, formerly often termed a rheumatic white if swelling. 2. Another form of disease, ordinarily com- I; nrised under the general name of white-swelling, |.i ias been particularly described by Mr. Brodie : he disease originates in the synovial membrane, || which loses its natural organization, and be- ll c’omes converted into a thick, pulpy substance, of | i light brown, and sometimes of a reddish brown H wolour, intersected by white membranous lines, |i nd from ^ to 4 of an inch, or even more than an It ■ neb, in thickness. As this disease advances, it || nvolves all the parts, of which the joint is com- I;1 rosed, producing ulceration of the cartilages, B aries of the bones, wasting of the ligaments, I nd abscesses in different places. The com- i | daint has invariably proved slow in its progress, nd sometimes has remained nearly in an indolent tate for many months, or even for one or two ’ears; but (says Mr. Brodie) “I have never net with an instance, in which a real amendment 'as produced; much less have I known any, in >hich a cure was effected.” (See Mcdico-Chir. rrans. Vol. 4, p. 2'20, ftc.) The whole, or nearly the whole of the synovial membrane has always been found affected; though if a very early examination were made, Mr. Brodie con- ceives, that this might not be the case, and in one example, he found only a half of the membrane thus altered, while the rest was of its natural structure. (Pathol. and Surg. Obs. p. 94.) This gentleman further acquaints us, that the preceding affection of the synovial membrane is rarely met with, except in the knee, that he has never known an instance of it in the hip, or shoulder; that it is peculiar to the synovial membrane of thejoints; that he has never known an instance of it in other serous membranes, nor even in the synovial membranes, which consti- tute the bursas mucosae and sheaths of tendons ; and that it generally takes place in young per- sons, under, or not much above the age of puberty. In fact, Mr. Brodie has not met with more than one instance, in which it occurred after the middle period of life. “ In the origin of this disease, there is a slight degree of stiff- ness and tumefaction, without pain, and pro- ducing only the most trifling inconvenience. These symptoms gradually increase : at last, the joint scarcely admits of the smallest motion, the stiffness being greater, than where it is the con- sequence of simple inflammation. The form of the swelling bears some resemblance to that in cases of inflammation of the synovial membrane, but it is less regular. The swelling is soft and elastic, and gives to the hand a sensation as if it contained fluid. If only one hand be employed in making the examination, the deception may be complete, and the most experienced surgeon may be led to suppose, there is a fluid in the joint when there is none ; but, if both hands be employed, one on each side, the absence of fluid is distinguished by the want of fluctuation. “The patient experiences little, or no pain, until abscesses begin to form, and the cartilages ulcerate; and even then the pain is not so severe, as where the ulceration of the cartilages occurs, as a primary disease, and the abscesses heal more readily, and discharge a smaller quantity of pus, than in cases of this last description. At this period, the patient becomes affected with hectic fever, loses his flesh, and gradually sinks, unless the limb be removed by an operation.” (Brodie, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. “251,252.) In the majority of cases, this gentleman believes, that the gradual progress of the enlargement, the stiffness of the joint, without pain, and the soft clastic swelling without fluctuation, will enable the practitioner readily to distinguish this from all other diseases of thejoints. However, when the diseased synovial membrane happens to be distended with a quantity of turbid serum and flakes of coagulable lymph, the complaint some- what resembles in its feel and appearance that stage of common inflammation of the synovial membrane, where this part is left thickened, and more or less distended with coagulable lymph, but the impossibility of relieving the former case by the same means, which cure the latter, and due attention to the history of the disease, will preve the difference between them. (Brodie, Pathol, and Surg. Ohs. p. 96.) 3 . Ulceration "of the articular cartilages takes plate in the advanced stage of several diseases of thejoints, and it also exists in many instances