514 GLEET. of the appearance which is seen in the eye of a ruminating animal. In a case, however, which I lately saw in the London Eye Infirmary under I\Ir. Lawrence, it was particularly remarked, that the diameter of the pupil was not greatest in the transverse direction; a circumstance, which Beer s account would lead us to expect as con- stant. And, it particularly merits notice, that as the iris shrinks towards the margin of the cornea, its pupillary edge is inverted towards the lens, so that its smaller circle completely disap- pears. In this very dilated state of the pupil, a grey greenish opacity is perceived, seeming to be very deep, and arising from a real loss of transparency in the vitreous humor. At this period, the lens evidently becomes opaque, ac- quiring a sea-greeri hue, and the eataracta viridis, or glaucomatosa, now swells and appears to pro- ject forwards into the anterior chamber. The pain then, becomes more incessant and violent; the varicose affection of the eyeball seriously in- creases ; and the eyesight, which began hourly to diminish from the moment when the pupil was first observed to be in any degree expanded and opaque, and the iris motionless, is now so en- tirely destroyed, that not the slightest perception of external light remains, though the patient may vainly congratulate himself on discerning lumi- nous appearances produced within the eye itself, in the form of a fiery, shining circle, especially when the organ is gently pressed upon. An eye in this condition (says Boyer) has really a look, as if it were dead, the cornea being as flaccid, and void of lustre, as in a corpse. Finally, when these symptoms have attained their utmost pitch, an atrophv of the eyeball follows, and the painful sen- sations about the organ cease. In corpulent indi- viduals, however, the}' still' continue with greater violence. Sooner, or later, the other eye is also either attacked with arthritic iritis, or ophthalmy, or becomes affected with glaucoma, which is ushered in by violent and incessant headaeh. (liter, Lehre van den Augenkrunkheiten, B. 1, p. 581, cfc. 8oo. Wien. 1813.) According to this author, glaucoma and the green cataract, are never the consequences of any description of ophthalmy, but what he terms arthritic. (B. 2, p. 253, Wien. liilZ.) Both these affections, after they are conjoined with a general varicose disease of the eyeball, he sets down as generally incurable. According to Weller, when the\itreous humor first begins to be muddy, the disease may some- times be checked. (On Diseases of the Eije. Vol. 2, />• 29.) The means of relief, depended upon in Germany, are frictions on the eyebrow with tinct. opii croc., or liniment, ammon.; the avoidance of cold; camphorated bags of aromatic herbs applied over the eye, but the effect of which must be rather insignificant; issues; setons; rub- bing the antimoiiial ointment over thei spine, or behind the ears, &e. (Vol. at. p. 228.) Other authors recommend applying blisters, aud giving internally the extract of eicuta, calomel, and soup. (Encudupedie Mithodiquc, Vartte Qhir.) The topical use of aether might be tried; but, from the history of the disease, the chances of cure must evidently be nearly hopeless. (See also Tr. G. Benedict dc Mwbts J{,nine's litrei.4ta. Dips. 1809.) GLAUCOSIS, Same as Glaucoma. GLEET. By the term pled, we commonly understand a continued running, or discharge, after the inflammatory symptoms of a clap for some time have ceased, unattended with pain, scalding in making water, &e. Mr. Hunter remarks, that it differs from a gonorrhoea in be- ing uninfectious, and in the discharge consisting ot globular bodies, contained in a slimy mucus, instead of serum. He says, that a gleet seems to take its rise from a habit of action, which the pqrts have contracted. The disease, however, sometimes stops of itself, even after every meiiiod I has been ineffectually tried. This probacy de- pends upon accidental changes in the constitution, and not. at all upon the nature of the disease itself. Mr. Hunter had a suspicion, that some gleets were connected with scrophula. Certain it is, the sea-bath cures more gleets, than the common I cold bath, or any other mode of bathing; and a | cure may sometimes, but not always, be accom- plished by an injection of diluted sea-water. Gleets are often attended with a relaxed con- stitution. They also sometimes arise from other ; affections of the urethra, besides gonorrhoea. A ! stricture is almost always accompanied with a I gleet; and so sometimes is disease of the prostate | gland. It is remarked by Mr. Hunter, that if a gleet I does not arise from any evident cause, and cannot | be supposed to be a return of a former gleet, in I consequence of a gonorrhoea, either a stricture f or diseased prostate gland is to be suspected: j an enquiry should be made whether the stream I of urine is smaller than common, whether there I is any difficulty in voiding it, and whether the j calls to make it are frequent. If tRere should be jl such symptom, a bougie, rather under the com- mon size, should be introduced; and, if it passes;! i into the bladder with tolerable ease, the disease Is <k probably in the prostate gland, which should next|i be examined. (See Urethra, Strictures oj ; cn.ffilH Prostate Gland.) Balsams, turpentines, and the tinctura Iytta?r|, given internally, are of service, especially iml slight cases; and when they are useful, theyI prove so almost immediately. Hence, if they had! neither lessened nor removed the gleet in five otrJ j six days, Mr. Hunter never continued them* longer. The same observation applies to cubebsJ j so celebrated of late as a remedy for gonorrheeam and gleet, and the common dose of which is 5'j I in any convenient fluid three times a day. A all the discharge, when removed, is also apt to recur,»f such medicines should be continued for some limqtf after the symptoms have disappeared. When the whole constitution is weak, lh<$|f cold bath, sea-bath, bark and steel, may biijt given. '] he astiingent gums, and salt of steeij given as internal astringents, have little power. With regard to local applications, the astrin-| gents, commonly used, are, the decoction bark, sulphat of zinc, alum, and preparations lead. 'I he aqua vitrioliea cterulea, of the Lon> . don Dispensatory, diluted with eight times itjftl quantity of water, makes a very good injection., j I Irritating applications consist either of injec^S tions, or bougies, simple or medicated with irrilt* tating medicines. Violent exercise may be con* 3 tatmg u.uii. in^o. V IUICUL CACIVfaC IHd^ uc (Ui. : sidered as having the same effect.. Such apt jf plications should never he used till the otluf methods have been fully tried, and found uif successful. They at li>st increase the discharg'd and, on this account, are sometimes abandoned tof early. Two grains of the oxytnuriate of niercurjj