351 DIPLOPIA. ■nines the restoration of parts to their proper situations. DIPLO'PIA. (from double, and uH, the eye, or onlojoni, to see.) lisas doplicitus. This is one of the most unusual diseases of the eyes, and it is of two kinds. For instance, the patient either sees an object double, treble, &c. only when he is looking at it with both his eyes, and, no sooner is one eye shut, than the object is seen single and right; or, else, he sees every ob- ject double, whether he surveys it with one, or both his eyes. The disorder is observed to effect persons in different degrees. Patients seldom see the two appearances, which objects present with equal distinctness; but, generally, discern one much more plainly and perfectly, than the other. iThe first distinct shape, which strikes the eye, s commonly that of the real object, while the second is indistinct, false, and visionary. There- bre. patients, labouring under this affection, sel- dom make a mistake, but, almost always know ■ vhich is the true and real object. However, i here are cases, in which the patient sees with | ‘qual clearness, the two appearances which things l ssuine, so that lie is incapable of distinguish- I .ng the real object from what is false and only i imaginary. The disorder is sometimes transitory and of j hort duration, and may be brought on in a i ealthy eye by some accidental cause, generally Ian irritation affecting the organ. Sometimes, II le complaint is continual; sometimes, periodi- j ui. In particular instances, the patient only . ves objects double, when he has been straining - s sight for a considerable time, as, for example, 1 then he has been reading a small print for a long | b rile by candle-light. In this case, the disorder j t :comes lessened by shutting the eyes for a few ■ oments. There are also instances, in which the 9 jects only have a double appearance at a par- I mlar distance, and not, either when they are I arer, or further off. Sometimes the patient I :s objects. double only upon one side ; as, for ample, when he turns his eyes to the right- li nd, while nothing of this sort is experienced in I dcing in any other direction. In certain cases, | lects appear double, in whatever way the eyes ■ turned and directed. j The causes of double vision may be divided a four classes. Namely, the object, which the ? ient looks at, maybe represented double upon * retina, which is the effect of the first class of ■ ses. Or, the object may be depicted in one I differently from what it is in the other, in ard to size, position, distance, clearness, &c.; is the effect of the second class of causes, the object may appear to one eye to be in a •rent place from that which it seems to the :r to occupy ; the effect of the third class of ;es. Or, lastly, the sensibility of the optic V ees is defective, so that the image of an ob- though it may appear single to one eye as as the other, yet, in one identical situation ! * seem double to both of them. When the plaint originates from causes of the first and di class, the patient sees things double, her he is using only one, or both eyes; when it proceeds from the second and third of causes, the patient sees objects double when he is looking at them with both eyes, and, no sooner does lie shut one, than objects put on tlieir natural, single appearance. The following are the chief causes of the first class of a single object being depicted upon the retina as if double. 1. An unevenness of the cornea, which is divided into two, or more con- vex surfaces. There are cases, which shew, that such an uneven shape may actually be the cause of double vision. {Htdlcr Element. Physiol. Tom. 5, }>. 8.3.) According to Beer, this con- formation of the cornea is mostly a result of several preceding ulcers of that membrane, in which circumstance the patient sees with the affected eye not merely double, but treble, and quadruple, of which facts Beer has met with some examples. (Lebe von den Augenkr. B. 2, ]t. 31 ) However, it must not be dissembled, that in a far greater number of instances, such unevenness of the cornea, though equally con- siderable, does not occasion this defect of sight. We have principally an opportunity of obser- ving cases of this sort after the operation of extracting the cataract. Hence, it would seem, that the inequalities must be of very particu- lar shape to produce double vision The diag- nosis of this cause is easy enough ; but, the re- moval of it is impracticable ; for, bow is it pos- sible to restore the original shape of the cornea? On this case, however. Beer delivers a more favourable prognosis, than Richter, for be states, that, when the patient is not decrepit, the double vision, from altered shape of the cornea, will gradually disappear of itself, when proper care is taken of the constitution, and in particular of the eye. (B. 2, p. 32.) 2. An inequality of the anterior surface of the crystalline lens, whereby the same is divided into several distinct surfaces, it is suggested, may also be the occa- sion of diplopia. Such an inequality may pos- sibly produce the disorder; but, it is exceedingly doubtful, whether any case of this sort has ever been met with, and, as Richter properly remarks, the investigation is not worth undertaking, as the diagnosis and cure would be equally impracti- cable. The only possible method of cure would be the extraction, or depression, of the crystal- line lens ; yet, with the uncertainty respecting the nature of the cause, what man would be jus- tified in performing an operation, in which the patient is not wholly exempt from the danger of losing his sight altogether? A double aperture in the iris, or as the case is termed, a double pupil, and a deviation of the pupil from its na- tural position, have been enumerated as causes of diplopia. (Baumer in. Act. Soc. llussiuc. I, No. 27.) However, Richter deems the reality of the first of these causes doubtful; for. cases have been noticed, where double vision was not the effect of there being two openings in the iris. (Jnnin Man. mv I'Otri!.') But, were the dis- order actually to originate in this way, it would not admit of a cure. The cau-es of the second class, by the effect of which the object is represented, in regard to its size, position, distance, &c. differently in one eye from what it is in the other, are for the most part rather possible, than such as have been ac- tually observed. The causes, which make ob- jects assume an appearance contrary to the real one, may sometimes be confined to one eye, to