030 POLYPUS. cumstance is sometimes owing to the continued agency of constitutional causes, which so often remain undiscovered and unremoved. Some- times, also, the recurrence of the disease is owing to a local morbid affection ot the Schneiderian membrane, or of the bones situated beneath the root of the polypus. Richter, in this case, ap- proves of the cautery ; but few English surgeons will coincide with him. The polypus, sometimes observed subsequently to the operation, is fre- quently not, in fact, a new substance, but only a part of the original tumor, not previously noticed by the surgeon. Sometimes it occurs, that a smaller and a larger polypus are found in the nose at the same time. The larger one is ex- tracted, while the other remains undiscovered; and, when it has increased in magnitude, it is apt to be mistaken for a reproduction of the one pre- viously extirpated. (See Richter's Anfangsgr. dcr Wundarzn. B. 1. Kap. 21.) Ligature. As the extraction of the polypus is invariably attended with hemorrhage, which is sometimes profuse, another more modern method of cure has been proposed as more convenient and secure. This consists in tying the root of the tumor with a ligature, by which the polypus is thrown into the state of inflammation, suppura- tion, and sphacelus; and, at length, becomes de- tached. Many instruments have been invented for applying the ligature; but Levret’s double can- nula seems to be the best. Through this, a silver wire is to be introduced, so as to form a noose at the upper end of the instrument, proportioned in size to the anterior part of the tumor, situated in the nostril. The two ends of the wire are to hang out of the two louver apertures of the double cannula; and one of them is to be fastened to a small ring on its own side of the instrument. The other is to remain loose. The wire must be made of the purest silver, and ought to be as flexi- ble as possible, that it may not readily break. It must, also, not be too thin, lest it should cut through the root of the polypus. The cannula is to be somewhat less than five inches long. By the assistance of this cannula, the noose is to be introduced into the nose, and put round the po- lypus. But, as the cannula, which is usually constructed of silver, is straight and inflexible, while the inner surface of the nostril is preter- naturally arched, especially when much distended by the polypus, it is easy to discern that its in- troduction must be attended with considerable difficulty. In fact, it can seldom be introduced as deeply as the root of the polypus. There are two ways of avoiding this obstacle. The cannula may either be passed under the polypus, over the ossa palati, which present a tolerably straight surface, or it must be curved a little. Perhaps, a tortoise-shell cannula, says Richter, might be convenient. The noose is to be applied in the following manner. The polypus is to be taken hold of with the forceps, and drawn a little out of the nose. The noose is then to be carried over the forceps and polypus, into the nostril. In order to carry it as high as possible, it is necessary not to push the cannula straight forwards into the nose, but to move it from one side of the polypus to the other. The more deeply the instrument has entered the nose, the more of the loose end of the wire must be drawn out of the lower aper- ture of the cannula, so as to contract the noose, which otherwise might stop in the nostril, and not be carried sufficiently high. The elasticity of the silver wire tends to assist in raising it over the polypus, and, hence, it is more easy of ap- plication than a more flaccid kind of ligature. When there is cause to conclude, that the poly- pus is complicated with adhesions, they must be previously broken, in the way already men- tioned. As soon as the noose has been introduced as deeply as possible, the loose extremity of the wire is to be drawn out of the lower aperture of the cannula, and rolled round the ring on that side of the instrument. Thus the root of the polypus suffers constriction. The wire must not be pulled too forcibly, nor yet too feebly. In the first circumstance, it readily cuts through the root of the polypus; in the second, great tume- faction of the excrescence, and many inconve- niences arise, which a tenser state of the wire prevents. As the noose gradually makes a fur- row, where it surrounds the polypus, it grows slack, after a short time, and no longer constricts the tumor. One end of the wire, therefore, is to be daily unfastened, and drawn more tightly. The more tense it is kept, the sooner the sepa- ration of the polypus is brought about. Hence, when it is particularly indicated to produce a speedy detachment of the polypus, the wire should be tightened, at least, once a day. In this manner, the cannula is to remain in the nose, until the noose is detacher!, together with the polypus. There is another method of tying the tumor, without leaving the cannula in the nose. After the noose has been introduced as far as possible into the nostril, the two ends of the wire are to be twisted round the two rings, and the cannula is to be turned round a couple of times. The wire is then to be unfastened from the rings, and the cannula withdrawn. In this way, the noose is made to embrace the po- lypus, round which it remains fastly applied. Whenever it is wished to produce a greater con- striction, the cannula may be again introduced into the nose, the ends of the wire fastened to the rings, and the instrument turned round again; after which, it is to be taken away, as before. As the cannula, when it continues long in the nose, may occasion pain, and other inconveniences, the last method seems preferable to the former. However, introducing and withdrawing the can- nula every day, as Richter adds, may, perhaps, be equally troublesome and painful. The can- nula, for this purpose, being necessarily straight, is by no means handy. One might, at all events, make use of a single cannula, the upper opening of which is divided by a bridge; this could he much more conveniently twisted than a double one. Although the ligature has been very much praised by some of the moderns, it is attended with so many difficulties, that, in the majority of cases, the forceps is infinitely preferable. He- morrhage is the only inconvenience, for which extraction is abandoned for the employment of the ligature. But this, as was before stated, is much less dangerous, than is represented. I he inconveniences of the ligature are far more serious, and numerous. The cure by the ligature is always accomplished with much less expedition