DURA MATER. 391 membrane; but they are particularly apt to grow on the surface, which is adherent to the upper part of the skull, or to its basis. They arc firm, indolent, and chronic, seeming as if they were the consequence of slow inflammation, af- fecting the vessels, which supply the dura mater, and inosculate with those of the diploe. It is very difficult, one might say, impossible, to de- termine, whether, in an affection of this kind, the disease begins in the dura mater, or the sub- stance of the bone itself. The general belief, however, is, that the bone is affected secondarily, and that the disorder originates in the dura mater. The patient, who is the subject of the first case, related in a memoir by M. Louis, had received no blow upon the head, and could only impute his complaint to a fall, which he had met with four, or five months previously, and in which the head itself had not received any violence; but, from this time, he experienced a stunning sensa- tion, which continued till he died. The cranium [ and dura mater were found both equally dis- eased. Though this case may tend to prove, that fungous tumors of the dura mater may form spon- taneously, yet, it is not the less confirmed by the examination of a vast number of cases, that this affection more frequently follows blows on the head, than any other cause. Hence, a slow kind I of thickening of the dura mater is produced, | which ends in a sarcomatous excrescence, the i formation of which always precedes the de- struction of the bone. In the memoir, published I by M. Lotus in the fifth volume, 4to. of those of the Royal Academy of Surgery, there is a vety I interesting case, illustrating the nature of the I ( present disease. The subject was a young man, aged twenty- one, who had a considerable tumor on the left side of the head, which was taken for a hernia rcrebri. (See this Article.) The swelling had begun in the region of the temple, and had - gradually acquired the magnitude of a second head. The external ear was displaced by it, and , pushed down as low' as the angle of the lower jaw. At the upper part of the circumference of the base of the tumor, the inequalities of the per- ' forated bone, and the pulsations of the brain, < could be distinctly felt. Some parts of the mass ■ were elastic and hard, others were soft and • fluctuating. A plaster, which had been applied, 1 brought on a suppuration at some points, from • which an ichorous matter was discharged. Shiver- ings and febrile symptoms ensued, and ihe man died in less than four months, in the year 1764. On dissection, a sarcomatous tumor of the dura mater was detected, together with a destruction of the whole portion of the skull, corresponding to the extent of the disease. When a tumor of this nature has decidedly formed, it makes its way outward through all the parts, soft or hard, which are opposed to it. The swelling, in becoming circumscribed, is partly blended with the dura mater, and its pressure produces an absorption of such parts of the skull, aj* Oppose its enlargement. It unexpectedly elevates itself externally, confounding itself with the scalp, and presents itself outwardly in the form 0 a preternatural, soft, yielding swelling, which *jve!’ sometimes betrays an appearance of a mal '' ^’lcluat,on» or a pulsation, which may e n,lslaberi for an aneurixmal tumor. >en once the swelling has made its exit from the cavity of the cranium, it expands on every side under the integuments, which readily make way for its growth. The scalp becomes dis- tended, smooth, and oedematous over the ex- tent of the tumor, and lastly it ulcerates. The matter, discharged from the ulcerations, is thin and sanious; the outer part of the tumor is con- founded with the integuments and edges of the skull, on which it rests, so that, in this state, it is easy to mistake the tumor for one, whose base is altogether external. While the swelling thus increases in size externally, it also enlarges in- ternally. The latter change takes place in par- ticular, while the opening in the cranium is not large enough to admit the whole mass of the tumor, which then depresses the brain, and lodges in an excavation, which it forms for itself. But this cavity quickly diminishes, and becomes re- duced almost to nothing, as soon as the tumor projects outwardly. The tables of the skull are absorbed to let the swelling arrive externally; but, it is remarked, that the internal, or vitreous table, is always found much more extensively destroyed, than the external one. Sometimes, new bony matter is found deposited around the opening in the cranium. It is asserted, that, whatever maybe the situa- tion of a fungous tumor of the dura mater, the outer layer of this membrane, upon which the disease forms, is alone altered, the inner layer and the pia mater being always unchanged. (Lassus, Pathologic Chirurgicale, Tom. 1, p. 501. Edit. 1809.) In one of these cases, detailed by Walther, the inner layer of the dura mater was quite na- tural, though one half of the tumor, which was very large, was within the skull, where it had formed for itself a deep excavation in the posterior lobe of the brain. And, what is remarkable, notwithstanding this latter change, the patient, the day before her death, retained all her in- tellectual faculties, and the power of voluntary motion. (Journ.fiir Chirurgie vim C. Graefe and Pit. v. Wulther, B. 1, pi 64—65, 8vo, Berlin, 1820.) According to surgical writers, fungous tumors of the dura mater have been caused by con- tusions of the skull, falls on the buttocks, con- cussions of the head or whole body, lues venerea, scrofula, inveterate rheumatism, &c. The three last of the alleged causes, however, seem to be little better than mere conjecture; and the same may be said of Walther’s idea, that the disease is of a similar nature to white swelling of the joints, (Graefe’s .Timm. B. 1, p. 104.), beginning rather in the bone, than the dura mater. Children of the most tender years are even liable to the disease. M. Louis has related, that a child, two years of age, died of a fungus of the dura mater, which had produced a swelling above the right ear, attended with a destruction of a portion of the parietal and temporal bones. {M6m. de I’Acnd. de Chirurgie, Tom. 5, 4to. p. 31.) Though the common opinion is, that these fungi grow entirely from the dura mater, Sandi- l’ort asserts, that the vessels of the diploe have a considerable share in their production. {Be scripiio Musci Aval. Acad. Lugd. 7 . I, p. 1.52.) A similar belief was entertained by Ileister and Kaufmann, and is espoused by Siebold and Walther, the latter imputing the disease to a simultaneous affection of the vessels of the dura-