tire patient extreme pain, and no amendment | t medicine proves serviceable in keeping open the 1030 TETANUS. aquam frigidam in tetano a cau.sa interna mire prodest, in tetano a causa externa minorem effectum proestut.” (Sy sterna Chirurgiw IIo- dierniE, Part. 1, p. 169—170, Edit. 1798.) On the subject ot cold effusion and bathing, there are on record two cases, which are curious. One is related by Baron Larrey. It was an in- stance of tetanus from a gunshot wound. The cold bath was used. The two first trials gave followed. The sight of the bath the next time filled him with an invincible dread of the water, into which he refused to be put. He was covered, however, with a blanket, and immersed. The tetanic stiffness was immediately increased, and dreadful convulsions excited. It became ne- cessary to remove him directly from the bath, and put him to bed. Deglutition was from the moment utterly impeded, and the contraction of the muscles carried to the most violent degree. A tumor, about as large as an egg, suddenly made its appearance near the linea alba, below the navel. After death, this was found to be caused by a rupture of one of the recti muscles, and a consequent extravasation of blood. (See Mem. do Chirurgie Mil. T. 3, p. 287—289.) This case is decidedly in support of the truth of what Professor Cullen and Callisen have ob- served. The next is not so : it is mentioned by Sir James Macgrigor, that, in the march of the guards through Gallicia, one of them was at- tacked with tetanus, in consequence of a slight wound of the finger. As it was impossible to think of leaving the man in the wretched village where he was taken ill, he was carried on a bul- lock car, in the rear of the battalion. During the first part of the day he was drenched with rain, the thermometer standing at 52°; but, after ascending one of the highest mountains in Gallicia, the patient was in a cold of 30°; and he w’as exposed from six in the morning till ten at night, when he was found half starved to death, but free from every symptom of tetanus. (See Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 450.) Another remedy, which is said to have fre- quently effected a cure in tetanus, is mercury. It has been employed in France with the great- est success, as may be seen by referring to the forty-fifth volume of Journal dc \Medecine. This remedy, however, should be resorted to, in an early period of the disorder. Mercurial fric- tions are preferred, and these are to be put in practice, so as to bring on a quick affection of the mouth ; care being taken, however, not to render the soieness and salivation too violent. Some contend, that it matters not, whether mercury be rubbed into the body, or given internally. It is generally allowed, that opium may be advan- tageously exhibited at the same time. This practice was first adopted in the West Indies (see Edinb. Physical and Literary Essays, Eel. 3), where it succeeded in many cases. Whatever benefit, however, may have been ex- perienced from this plan in mild cases, it com- pletely fails in the acute form of the disease. Mercurial frictions appeared to Baron Larrey to aggravate the symptoms, in the cases where the plan was tried in Egypt (Mem. dc Chir. Mil. T. 1, p. 257); and Dr. Emery, Mr. Guthrie, and other medical officers, attached to our army tTi f Vi n nonineti la fripil inunction of the whole ointment, in unlimited quantity, with no degree of success. After the battle of Toulouse, a latal case even occurred in a man strongly under the influence of mercury, which he had been pre- viously using for the cure of the itch. (Sir J. Macgrigor in Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. (1, p. 454.) The submuriate of mercury, combined wdth ipecacuanha, also proved inefficacious in acute cases; but, in chronic ones, the former bowels. Another method of treating tetanus is that of administering the most powerful tonics and sti- mulants, such as wine, brandy, aether, prepara- tions of ammonia, bark, cordials, &c. The in- troduction of this plan was chiefly owing to the eminent Dr. Rush, Professor of Medicine in Philadelphia, who published in the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, Vol. 2, a paper, entitled “ Observations on the Cause and Cure of Tetanus.'' Dr. Rush considers tetanus as a disease essentially connected with debility, and he recommends for it the exhibition of the preceding class of remedies. He particu- larly advises the liberal use of wine and Peru- vian bark; and, as we have already stated, when tetanus arises from a wound, he directs the di- latation of it, and dressings with oil of turpen- tine. Considerable success is represented as having attended the practice. Several other instances of success are also recorded by Dr. Hosack. (American Medical Repository, Vol. 3.) Nothing is a more certain proof of our not being acquainted with any very effectual method of treating a disease, than a multiplicity of reme- dies, which are as opposite as possible in their effects. We have seen that the celebrated Ur. Rush conceived, that tetanus was a disease con- nected with debility, and he has recorded exam- ples, in which it was successfully treated by to- nics and stimulants. Extraordinary, however, as it may appear, many practitioners are advo- cates for venesection, especially in the early stage of tetanus. Dr. Dickson thinks, that in a full habit, where the wound is swelled, inflamed, and painfui, venesection, with free purging, and such other means as are calculated to allay the general and local irritation, affords the fairest chance of averting the danger. (See Medico- Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, Part 2.) Larrey has also published several cases, in which bleeding had a good effect. We are informed by Sir James Macgrigor, that, in our military hospitals in Spain, venesection had a fair trial. In three cases at St. Andero, detailed by Mr. Guthrie, this was the principal remedy. One patient with tetanus, from a wound of the back part of the hand, was bled nearly ad dcliquium several times with good effect, calomel and diaphoretics being also given, and he recovered. Another patient was bled in the same manner with such amendment, that he suffered but little from spasm, and could open his mouth very well, when he was seized with diarrhoea, which, in his debi- litated state, carried him off. In the third case, which was one of acute tetanus, venesection, pushed to the utmost, totally failed. (Op. Vol. 6, p. 455—45G ) The powerfully relaxing effects of tobacco elvsters. in cases of hernia and enteritis, ha'e I FI : (I