236 BRONCHOCELE. success of setons was also adverted to by Richter in the year 1788. (Bibliotheh, B. 0, 47R.y And, the plan is spoken of in another work, published in 179(1, as being eligible, where the disease is conjoined with a cyst. (Evmcloptdie Method. 1 or tig Chir. T. 1, p. 281A The prac- tice was particularly noticed by Fodere in his valuable treatise on bronchocelc; and Alibert mentions the seton as being used at the FIos- ,v pital St. Louis. (ATosol. Nut. T. 1, p. 466, Jol. Paris, 1817.) In November, 1817, Dr. Quadri, of Naples, tried this practice, which he erroneously supposed to be quite new. ‘‘By means of a trocar-pointed needle, six and a half inches long, I passed (says he) a seton from above downwards through the gland, at the depth of about four lines from its surface. Suppuration took place in forty-eight hours. On the 18th of November, the seton escaped, when the matter was squeezed out. and the irritation, occasioned by replacing it, produced an abscess on the right side of the neck, which was opened on the 28d, when it was found, that the suppuration had effected the destruction of nearly the whole gland.” The woman, who was thirty-six years of age, was seen by Dr. So- merville, in April 1818, with the circumference of her neck lessened, from sixteen to thirteen inches, French measure. In another case, re- ferred to, a seton was passed through each side of the thyroid gland, and the result was a removal of the tumor on the side, where the seton was maintained long enough; but, on the opposite side, the seton being withdrawn too early, the matter collected in a sac, and at the end of four months, a sinus and discharge still continued, the patient refusing to have a counter opening prac- tised. When the seton does not prove stimulating enough, Dr. Quadri sometimes enlarges it, or attaches to it escharotic, or irritating substances. He also frequently uses two setons. In one ex- ample, in endeavouring to perforate the gland rather deeply, Dr. Quadri appears to have injured the larger branches of the thyroid arteries, as more than an ounce of blood was discharged, and the tumor swelled, as if injected with blood. The bleeding, however, ceased spontaneously, Fie states, that the seton has been passed through the tumor not less than sixteen times, the direction being varied in every instance, without untoward accident, and he is confident, that, unless the needle be pushed deep enough almost to touch the thyroid cartilage, the trunks of the thyroid arte- ries will not be exposed to injury, while any branches, in the track of the needle, will not cause any danger. Fie insists also upon the pro- priety of retaining the seton in the tumor a con- siderable time, and observes, that it remains to be ascertained, whether this practice will answer in every description of bronchocele ? For these and several other cases and particulars, the pro- fession are indebted to Dr. Somerville. (See Merl. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10, p. 1G, §c.) Mr. Gunning applied a seton in acase of bron- chocele in St. George’s Ilospilal; but, in this instance, the irritation brought on a slough- ing ulceration, and the patient after a time died. The particulars of this(case,and of two successful examples of the practice in England, will no doubt be detailed in the 11 th'volume ofMcd. Chir. Trans, not yet published. One of the two suc- cessful cases was treated by my friend, Mr. James, oi Exeter, the other by Mr. A. C. Hutchinson, who lias taken the trouble to collect the history of them. Attempts have been made to extirpate the en-i larged thyroid gland ; but, the numerous large! arteries distributed to this part, the dilated state! of these vessels when the gland is much enlarged,! and the vicinity of the carotid arteries, render this| operation exceedingly dangerous, especially wlicnj the swelling is very large, the only instance, ini which a patient would submit to this mode ofj cure. In doing it, one would be obliged to cut! arteries large enough to pour forth a vast quan-l tity of blood in a very short time, and so situated,jj that it would be difficult to tic, or effectually com-I press them. Mr. Gooch relates two cases, which} do not encourage practitioners to have recourse! to the excision of enlarged thyroid glands. In| one of these instances, so copious an hemorrhage! took place, that the surgeon, though equal I v bolcl and experienced, was obliged to stop in the mid-fj die of the operation. No means availed in en-| tirely suppressing the bleeding, and the patient in a few days died. In the other example, thej same event nearly took place, the patient’s lift only being saved by compressing the woundei vessels with the hand, day and night for a wliold week, by persons who relieved each other in turn The surgeon found this the only way of stoppin the hemorrhage, after many fruitless attempts t tie the vessels. These cases are well calculated to deter pru-4 dent men from undertaking the hazardous opera- tion of cutting out an enlarged thyroid gland,1 except under the most urgent circumstances. When bronchoceles obstruct respiration, degluti- tion, and the return of blood from the head, ii* a very serious degree, an enterprising surgeon would feel greatly inclined to make any rational attempt to relieve his patient, even though i might be one of a bold description. In such press ing circumstances, a good operator, well ae quainted with the anatomy of the neck, might at-* tempt the extirpation of the swelling, (Sec 7 /iyr< it Gland, or, as I should prefer, he might tie one o both of the superior thyroid arteries. When th quantity of blood flowing into a tumor, is, snd dcnly, and, greatly, lessened, the size of th swelling commonly soon undergoes a considerabl diminution. This operation was practised by Si W. Blizard, who tied the arteries of an enlarged < * 5 thyroid gland, and, in a week, the tumor was re. The ligatures thci duced one-third in its size, sloughed off; repeated bleeding took place from the arteries, and by the extension of the hospita gangrene, the carotid itself was exposed. The pa tient died; yet, as Air. A. Burns maintained, thi did not militate against a repetition of the experi- ment; the same thing might have happened fron merely opening a vein, and, in the confined aii of an hospital, has actually happened. (Surgica Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 202.) In fact, the rationality of the experiment pre- vented surgeons from being intimidated by the failure in question, and, with that laudable spirit for (lie improvement of operative surgery, every where diffusing itself through the profession, oth gentlemen were soon found who had judgment enough Lo make further trials of the practice. In a young man, Uventy-four years of age, wh