INFLAMMATION. 710 T1 The most effectual remedy for this purpose is opium, which, when the pain and irritation are considerable, as very irequently happens in ex- tensive inflammations, should never be omitted. In large wounds, especially after amputations, and other capital operations, and in punctures of all kinds, large doses of opium are always at- tended with remarkably good effects. In all such cases, however, opium, in order to have a proper influence, should be administered in very large doses; otherwise, instead of proving ser- viceable, it seems rather to have the contrary effect. This circumstance is, perhaps, the chief reason why opiates in general have been very unjustly condemned in every case of inflamma- tion. (B. Bell.) On the contrary, those who are averse to the use of opium, remark, that in acute inflammation daily experience shews, independently of every theory, that the exhibition of this medicine in- creases the general fever, and aggravates the local action. Even given as a preventive of inflammation, after operations, anodynes are almost uniformly hurtful, producing restlessness, heat, thirst, and afterwards head-ach, sickness, and frequently troublesome vomiting. {Burns.) According to Dr. Thomson, “ those diapho- retics, into the composition of which opium enters, seem to be better adapted for inflamma- tion attended with fever of a typhoid character, or for cases where the inflammation has existed for a considerable time before diaphoretics are employed. Given at an early period in acute inflammatory diseases, opium never fails to ex- cite vascular action, and to aggravate all the symptoms of fever. Opium, therefore, is not to be used, unless .to allay the pain and irritation from a surgical operation, or from the recent in- fliction of an external injury. Indeed, unless when the patient is very nervous, and complains much of pain, its use, even after chirurgical operations, had, I believe, in general, better be abstained from, as it almost never fails to add to the violence of the symptomatic fever, which is the necessary consequence of the operation. Its effects are often very beneficial, when the period of this fever has passed over.” {See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 172.) Upon the whole, candour obliges me to own, that the ma- jority of surgeons in this country are decidedly against the general use of opium in inflamma- tion ; but, after the performance of severe ope- rations, and in all instances attended with ex- cessive pain, truth, I believe, will justify my saying, that they are in favour of the exhibition of this remedy. Diet and Regimen.—In all cases, the sur- geon is to forbid the use of wine and spirits ; and, when the inflammation is at all consider- able, the same prohibition is to be made in re- gard to animal food. Watery, cooling, muci- laginous drinks are proper; for they keep off thirst and heat, promote perspiration, and tend to sooth the increased action of the whole ar- terial system. For this purpose, whey, butter- milk, barley-water, decoctions of dried fruits, water-gruel, &c. may be given. When diluent drinks “are intended to allay thirst, as well as to promote perspiration, the addition of some vegetable acid, such as lemon juice, or cream of tartar, renders them in gene- ral very palatable to patients. In the earlier stages of inflammation, and where the object is to induce a moisture on the skin, the mineral acids, though they might serve to quench thirst, are not to be employed, as they tend rather to check, than promote the flow of sweat.” (Thom- son on Inflammation, p. i 72.) The chamber, in which the patient lies, should not be warmer, than his comfort requires; for heat tends powerfully to keep up an increased action of the sanguiferous system. For the same reason, the patient should not be covered with a superfluous quantity of bed-clothes. The whole body, but more especially the in- flamed part, should be preserved in as complete a state of rest as possible. Every one knows, that all motion, exercise, and muscular exertion, accelerate the circulation, and, hence, must have a pernicious effect on inflammation, by deter- mining a larger quantity of blood to the part affected. Applications. With the exception of what has been stated, concerning topical bleeding, all the foregoing remarks relate to the general treatment of inflammation : the local means re- main for consideration.. It has been already observed, that phlegmon is attended with an increase of heat in the part affected, and it is an acknowledged and well known fact, that the action of the arteries, as well as every other operation in the animal eco- nomy, is promoted and increased by the influ- ence of heat. For this reason, an obvious indi- cation arises, viz. to reduce the temperature of the inflamed part, by the topical application of cold, and, in particular, by continually abstract- ing the heat evolved in the part, by keeping up a constant evaporation from its surface. “ Of the local remedies, applied directly to inflamed parts (says Dr. Thomson) cold is un- doubtedly one of the most powerful. In re- ducing the temperature, cold diminishes the morbid sensibility and pain of inflamed parts , and, probably, in consequence of this, the action also of the vessels, by which the inflamed parts are supplied with blood. The most common mode of employing cold is by the application to the part inflamed of cloths, which have been dipt in cold water. These are to be repeated as often as they become warm, or any relief is ex- perienced by the patient from their use. When the inflammation is seated on the remote parts of either the upper or lower extremities of the body, the inflamed part itself may be immersed in water. This immersion, as I shall afterwards have occasion to mention, has often been found useful in superficial burns. In order to increase the effect produced by cold, it has been proposed to reduce the temperature of the water below that of the surrounding atmosphere, by a proper mixture of saline bodies, as some of these are known to produce cold during their solution in water, or even in very urgent cases to apply ice or snow. The ice, however, must not be ap- plied too long, nor in too large a quantity; for, it very quickly reduces the temperature of the part to which it is applied, and, in some in- stances, has been known to occasion gangrene, See. {On Inflammation, p. 180.) • With the cold water applied to phlegmonous inflammation, it is usual to blend some remedies,