HYDROPHTHALMIA. G3 7 consists in an immoderate collection of the aque- ous humour, the anterior chamber is always enlarged: on the contrary, in the present form of the disease, that cavity is manifestly lessened, for the motionless iris is gradually forced so much to- wards the cornea, that at length the chamber in question almost completely disappears. However, the colour of the iris undergoes no change, and the pupil is always rather diminutive. Around the cornea, the sclerotica is rendered bluish by dis- tention, with a somewhat smutty tinge. In the early stage, the patient is affected with shorl- , ■ sightedness, myopia; but his power of vision is 1 always seriously diminished, and, at last, is so j totally destroyed, that not a ray of light can be perceived. The motions ol the globe ot the ■eye and eyelids are lessened, or impeded at a s still earlier period, than in the first species of j hydrophthalmia, and to the touch the organ i seems like an egg-shaped stone. The very com- ; mencement of the disease is attended with pain, which daily becomes more and more severe, and, at length, is not confined to the eye and its vi- cinity, but affects all the side of the head, the teeth, and neck, being sometimes so violent as almost to bereave the patient of his senses, who urgently begs the surgeon to puncture the eye, or even is driven by desperation to do it himself, as Beer once knew happen. Even while the : pain is less afflicting, the patient is deprived of j his sleep and appetite. (Beer, Vol. cit. p.6‘23.) Though an increase in the quantity of the vitre- . ous or aqueous humour has generally been treated of as a distinct disease, and denominated bydroph - j : thalmia, Mr. Wardrop has never seen a dropsy I of the eye, without an accompanying disease of j : the sclerotic coat, or cornea. (0« the Mor- I lid Anatomy of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 126.) Beer offers no valuable remark on the causes of the preceding form of hydrophthalmia, his account j of the connexion with scrophula and syphilis ! being mere conjecture, though delivered as a posi- I tive matter of fact. However, another position I offered in the paragraph, concerning the progno- I ■ sis seems more correct; viz. that as the disease 1; is almost always conjoined with an unhealthy constitution, there can be scarcely any hope of |j a radical cure. Beer’s opinion also is, that, when the disease has made such progress, that not a ray can be discerned, and the pain in the eye and head is so violent, by day and night, ; that the sleep, appetite, and even the senses are lost; it is fortunate, if only the most perilous symptoms can be obviated by palliative treat- f ment; for the preservation of a good shaped eye is then quite out of the question. And even in the most favourable cases, the utmost, which i can be expected, is to stop the further advance of the disease, a perfect cure being extremely rare. According to Beer, the first indication is to Improve the state of the health by medicines, and regimen ; for, unless this object be effected, no |J expectation of curing the dropsical affection of treatment, in this case, little or nothing can be accomplished by it. Hence, the disease often continues to grow worse and worse, and, when the pain becomes violent, the best thing, which the surgeon can do, both with the view to the functions of the organ, and its form, is to let out the aqueous humour. But, Beer reprobates, in the strongest terms, the plan sometimes re- commended, of plunging a trocar through the sclerotica into the vitreous humour, and keeping the tube introduced, until a certain quantity of that humour is discharged. According to Beer’s experience, the usual result of such practice is a carcinomatous disease of the eye, terminating in death, which the removal of the part will not prevent. The method, preferred by Beer, is that which is mentioned by Richter, (Anfangsgr. B. 3, p. 400,) and consists in opening the cor- nea and capsule of the lens, as in the extraction of the cataract, discharging the lens and vitreous humour, and letting the coats of the eye collapse; but, in order to prevent any re-accumulation of fluid, he afterwards cuts away a little bit of the flap of the cornea. The eye is then to be dressed in the same manner, as after the extraction of the cataract. (See Cataract.) The third spe- cies of hydrophthalmia, or that produced by an accumulation both of the aqueous and vitreous humours together, is excellently described by Scarpa. He observes, that, in every case, on which he has performed the operation, and in other examinations of the different stages of the disease, made on the dead subject, he has con- stantly found the vitreous humour, more or less, altered in its organization, liquified, and con- verted into water, according as the disease was ancient, or recent. In some instances, he could not distinguish whether the increased quantity of the vitreous, or aqueous humour, had most share in the formation of the disease. Scarpa also dissected a dropsical eye, taken from the body of a child, three years and a half old, who died of marasmus. The vitreous hu- mour was not only wanting in this eye, and the cavity destined for its reception tilled with water, but the vitreous tunic was converted into a sub- stance, partly of a spongy, partly of a fatty nature. This dropsical eye was one-third larger, than natural. The sclerotica was not thinner than that of the other eye; but, in consequence of being yielding, flaccid, and separated from the choroides, it had lost its plumpness, and globular shape. The cornea formed a disk, one-third larger than that of this membrane in a sound state; it did not retain its natural pulpy structure, and was obviously thinner than the cornea of the healthy eye. There was a considerable quantity of an aqueous, reddish fluid, between the cornea and iris. The crystalline lens, with its opaque capsule, had been pushed forward a little way into the anterior chamber, but could not advance further, on account of a firm adhesion, which the capsule had contracted with the iris, around the edge of the pupil. As soon as the capsule was opened, the lens issued from it, half dissolved, the rest exceedingly soft. It was impossible to de- tach the whole of the posterior layer of the cap- sule from a hard substance, which seemed to be the altered membrane of the vitreous humour. Scarpa, therefore, slit open the choroides, from the ciliary ligament to the bottom of the eye, when a considerable quantity of n reddish aque- ous fluid gushed out, without, however, one par- ticle of the vitreous humour. In lieu of the latter body, there was found a small cylinder of a substance, partly of a fungous, partly of a fatty nature, surrounded with a good deal of