'“u ■—-* SURGERY. 1007 s phrases are still adopted in all the medical mol? of this country, and continue to modify ; style of almost every professional book, eat as Mr. Hunter’s merit ns a surgeon was, was still greater as a comparative anatomist 1 physiologist. The museum of the Royal ,liege of Surgeons, and his papers in the Phil, ans. will for ever attest his greatness in these traders. At the period, when the preceding distin- ished men upheld the character of their pro- sion in Great Britain, Lancisi, Morgagni, olinelli, Bertrandi, Guattani, Mascagni, Ma- li, Troja, and Moscati, were doing the same ng in Italy. Bertraudi’s Treatise on the ierations of Surgery, and Troja’s work on the generation of Bones, are even at this day rks of the highest repute. Of late years, the •dit of the Italian surgeons has been honour- y maintained, by Monteggia, Scarpa, Paletta, ladri, Assalini, Morigi, and others. In Hol~ al flourished Albinus. Deventer, Sandifort, d Camper; and, in Germany, and the north Europe, the immortal Haller, Heister, well own for his “ Institutiones Chirurgioe atner; Rcederer (Elcmcnta Artis Obstetricicc. Ktt. 1752. Obs. Ac Pariit Laborioso. Dccad. , 1756.) Stein, Bilguer, Acrell, Callisen, y sterna Chirurgioe Hodierncc, 2 Vol. 8vo.) ambilla, Theden, (Prog res ultcrieurs Ac la ■irurgic.) Schmucker, ( Vermischtc Chirur- rche Schriften, B. 3, and Chir. Wulirneh- tngen.) Richter, ( Traite des Hernies, 2 Vol. •j. Bib/, fitr die Chirurgic; Ansfangsgr. der ' udarzn. 7 B. and Obs. Chirurgicarum Also Arnemann, Weidmann, Beer, Soem- ring, Creutzenfeldt, Hesselbach, Hufeland, raefe, Klein, Himlv, Langenbeck, Walther, ! A. Schmidt, G. J. Beer, &c. should not be gotten, several of whom are still pursuing ir useful and honourable career. Be it also jorded as a part of the great merit of the irmatis, that they now rank amongst the best d most minute anatomists ; that they are zeal- s cultivators of comparative anatomy; that fir industry allows no improvement in medical ence, wherever made, to escape their notice; i that surgery is greatly indebted to them the best descriptions of the diseases of the On the continent, the Academy of Surgery at ris was long considered quite as the solar ht of this branch of science. The French volution, which, by a fatal abuse, involved in same prohibition, both useful and pernicious ieties, did not spare even this beneficial lblishment. Although the Academy was de- ved of the talents of Louis, who died a short e before its suppression, it yet had at this iod several members, worthy of continuing its ours and supporting its reputation : Sabatier, sault, who may be regarded as the Pott of mcc, Chopart, Lassus, Peyrilhe, Dubois, rcy, Baudeloque, Pelletan, Sue, &c. The Academy of Surgery in France was sue- dod by what is named the Ecole de Medecine. sault, who was almost a stranger in the former, ame quite the leading character in the latter, eral things recommended him strongly to the lembrance and admiration of posterity; the ctness and method, which lie introduced into the study of anatomy: the ingenious kinds of apparatus which lie invented for the treatment of fractures: a noble ardour iri his profession, which he knew how to impart to all his pupils : his clinical lectures upon surgery, which were the first ever delivered; and the boldness and simplicity of his modes of operating. Indeed, such was his genius, that even when he practised only methods already understood, he did them with so much adroitness, that he rather appeared to be the inventor of them. From the Ecole de Medecine have issued Dupuytren, Boyer, Richerand, Dubois, Lheritier, Manoury, Lalle- mant, Petid de Lyon, Bichat, &c. The researches of Bichat, who quitted sur- gery, powerfully contributed to the advance- ment of physiological science. His mind, richly stored with the positive facts which he had learned in the study of surgery, conceived no less a project, than that of rebuilding the whole edifice of medicine. Some courses of lectures upon the materia mediea, internal clinical medi- cine, and morbid anatomy, announced this vast design which was frustrated by a premature death. Bichat, as a physiologist, and man of very original genius, may be considered as the John Hunter of France ; but his qualities were of a different cast, and hardly admit of com- parison with those of Hunter, whose investiga- tions were not limited to man, but extended to the whole chain of animated beings. Bichat died in the midst of his labours, and in dying his greatest regret was that of not having completed them. His example, says Richerand, proves most convincingly what Boerhaave always in- culcated, how indispensable the study and even the practice of surgery are to him, who would wish to be a distinguished and successful phy- sician. (ATosogr. Chir. Tom. 1, p. 25.) Perhaps, nothing contributed so materially to the improvement of surgical knowledge, as the establishment of the Royal Academy of Surgery in France; a noble institution, which, fora long while, gave our neighbours infinite advantage over us, in the cultivation of this most useful profession. Indeed, every one, truly interested in the improvement of surgery, cannot fail to regret the discontinuance of a society', in which emulation and talents were so long united for the benefit of mankind. The various disserta- tions, published by the illustrious members of the academy, will serve as a perpetual memorial of the spirit, ability, and success, with which the objects of the institution were pursued; and centuries hence, practitioners will reap from the pages of its memoirs the most valuable kind of surgical information. Unfortunately, this esta- blishment, which was overthrown by the agitation of the French Revolution, has had only a very inferior substitute in the Ecole de Medecine. Were I to name any one thing, which, in my' opinion, would have the greatest influence in giving life to the study and cultivation of sur- gery in this country', I should without hesitation assign such importance to the establishment of an institution in the metropolis, on the same grand, liberal, and encouraged plan, as the late Royal Academy of Surgery in France. At the same' time, I am conscious, that the present Medical and Chirurgicnl Society of London have every claim to the encouragement