bis HERNIA. of the transversals muscle ami its tendon, which pass over the neck of the hernial sac, and by a fascia, arising from Poupart’s ligament, the se- micircular border of which passes under this part of the sac. The common, and probably the best, practice is to divide the hernial sac, together with the stricture. \\ hen this is situated at the abdomi- nal ring, the surgeon is to introduce the end of a director a little way into the neck of the sac, within the aperture in the tendon, and with a probe-pointed bistoury, guided on the latter in- strument, he is to cut the stricture upward and outward, or else directly upward; a manner, which Mr. A. Cooper recommends, because it is applicable to all cases, even the less frequent ones, in which the hernia protrudes at the inner side of the epigastric artery; and, in all common instances, we know, that this vessel runs upward round the inner side of the neck of the sac; a course prohibit- ing the division of the stricture upward and inward. In the external inguinal hernia, the method of cutting the stricture upward and outward is per- fectly safe; but when the case is what Hessel- bach calls internal, and the viscera descend on the inner side of the epigastric artery, it is a plan, which would endanger the latter vessel, and ought never to be adopted, notwithstanding any statement made in its favour by Rudtorffer. Abhandlung uher die cvnfachste tend sichcrste operations-Mcthode eingesperrter Leisten-und- Schcnkclbr'uchc. Wien. 1808.) In this work, the erroneous plan of cutting the ring inwards is inculcated, both in the external and internal in- guinal rupture. The author, however, seems to have performed many operations in this manner, without'any accident from hemorrhage; a piece of good fortune, which Professor Langenbeck ascribes to the circumstance of the knife having always been applied, as Rudtorffer directs, to the middle of the inner pillar of the ring, and to the cut having been very limited. Langenbeck is of opinion, that, if the knife had been applied a little lower, and the incision carried to any extent, the epigastric artery, in ordinary cases, would not have escaped injury. Mr. A. Cooper’s rule of al- ways cutting in one direction, viz. upward, which I believe was first advised by Autenrieth, (Dis- sert. Moment, circa Hcrniotom. prcccipiic circa evilandam art. epigastr. Iccsioncm, Tub. 1799) is perhaps a very good one, because it is at least easy for the memory, and will answer very well even when it is not in the power of the surgeon to pronounce positively, whether the case is a short- necked external bubonocele, or an internal one with an oblong oval fissure, cases having a great external resemblance, especially in women, in whom there is not the spermatic cord as a cri- terion ; for, after all, this part, when present, is the surest guide, and that on which Desault founded his perfectly safe advice, viz. when the cord is at the posterior, or inner side of the neck of the hernial sac, to divide the ring upwards and outwards, but inwards arid upwards when it lay at the outer or on the forepart of the sac. ((Euvres Chir. de Bichat, T. 2.) At least, this advice is subject but to one exception,which is the very rare one of the epigastric running round the inner side of the neck of the sac in an inter- nal bubonocele ; a possibility which has been al- ready explained, and which leads Ilcsselbach particularly to recommend the division of the ring in every internal inguinal hernia, to be made straight upwards. (P. 47.) Indeed, the long necked external bubonocele is the only case, in which he thinks the latter plarj_ghould give way to that of cutting upwards and outwards. The safety and propriety of the method of always cutting upward, are strikingly illustrated by what Scarpa observes : he states, that the right direction of the incision of the ring is directly upwards, pa- rallel to the linea alba. “ I have (says he) operated in the way which I recommend, upon several dead subjects, who had either external, or internal inguinal hernias, directing my inci- sion in the course of a line drawn from the upper part of the ring parallel to the linea alba; in all, I constantly left the epigastric artery untouched, even when I extended the cut about an inch above the inguinal ring.” (Scarpa, Traite Pratique des Hernies, p. 111.) Only one objection, as. far as I know, has been made to this plan, and it is founded on the alleged impossibility of in- troducing the knife, so as to cut straight up- wards, when the neck of the hernial sac is long, because then the posterior side of the inguinal ca- nal is in the way. (Hesselbach, p. 40.) No more of the parts, forming the stricture, should be cut, than is just sufficient for allowing the protruded viscera to be reduced, without bruis- ing, or otherwise hurting them ; and I consider the middle of the upper margin of the ring the safest place for making the necessary inci- sion. Mr. A. Cooper, in his valuable work on the Inguinal Hernia, advises a mode of dividing the stricture, considerably different from the usual method. He directs the finger of the operator to be introduced into the sac, (which in his plan, we know, is left undivided for the space of one inch below the ring.) When the stricture is felt, a probe-pointed bistoury is to be conveyed over the front of the sac into the ring (between the two partis), and the latter only is then to be di- vided, in the direction upward, opposite the middle of the neck of the sac, and to an extent just sufficient to allow the protruded parts to be returned into the abdomen, without their being hurt. The two chief advantages, which Mr. A. Cooper imputes to this method, are, that the danger of peritoneal inflammation will be less, and that the epigastric artery, if wounded, would not bleed into the abdomen. I am of opinion, that Mr. Lawrence’s remarks, concerning this proposal, are judicious : *•' An accurate compa- rative trial of both methods would be necessary, in order to determine the weight of the first rea- son. The second circumstance cannot be a mat- ter of any importance, if we cut in such a direc- tion as to avoid the risk of wounding the artery. Many circumstances present themselves as ob- jections to this proposal. The manoeuvre itself, although perhaps easy to the experienced hand of such an able anatomist as Mr. C., would, I am convinced, be found highly difficult, if not im- practicable, by the generality of surgeons. This difficulty arises from the firm manner, in which the sac and surrounding parts are connected, we might almost say, consolidated together. . 1 he experience of Richter (Traite des Hernies, p. 1IH) shews, that this objection is founded in reality. He once tried to divide the ring, with-