gutta seuena. 553 the body, generally produce, under these circum- stances" the most favourable effects upon the skiii, and, through the medium of it, upon the diseased eye. The case, however, is to be excepted where flying rheumatic, and perhaps gouty, pains constantly tease the patient, unac- companied with fever, and where bathing of the whole body in sulphurous mineral water should be preferred. (Le/ire von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 471—472.) If we are to believe Beer, the empirical employment of applications, which have the effect of increasing the secretion of mucus, is very seldom proper, such as irritating gargles, .the smoking of tobacco, and sternutatory pow- ders; for these means can only be adopted with any prospect of benefit when amaurosis is accom- panied with plethora, a sense of spasm and weight about the frontal sinuses, an incessant obtuse heaviness at the bridge of the nose, and unusual dryness of the nostril, in an individual, who has frequently suffered catarrhal Complaints, but some time previously to the origin of the amaurotic symptoms has continued nearly, or quite, free from colds ; and when the patient has no tendency to plethora, determination of blood to the head and eyes, and acceleration of the circulation. ( Vol.rit. p. 473.) The application of sternutative powders to the nostrils is, perhaps, to be regarded as a mode of treatment, established on empirical principles, .inless we can place confidence in the statement i of Schmucker, Richter, and Beer, that an un- isual dryness of the mucous membrane of the lose, foiiowing tedious and severe catarrhs, may lave the effect of inducing amaurosis. The muff employed by Schmucker, is thus com- posed : 1^,. Mercur. viv. 3j. Sacchar. alb. 3''j, Lill. Alb. Rad. Valerian, a a 3j- Misce. The late Mr, Ware imputed considerable effi- cacy to electricity and a mercurial snuff in cases if gutta serena. The snuff was compounded of ten grains of turbith mineral (hydrargyrus sul- pruiratiu,) well mixed, with about a dram of the xilvis stennitatorius, glycirrhiza, or common mgar. A small pinch of this snuff, taken up ;he nose, is found to stimulate it very considera- bly—sometimes exciting sneezing, but, in gene- •al, producing a very' large discharge of mucus. See Chir. Obs. relative to the Eye, Vol. 1.) Amongst the remedies, which, in cases of miaurosis, are intended to be applied directly to he eye, and its surrounding parts, local bleeding nerits the first rank. The extraction of blood, >y means of leeches, is the only mode in which he practice can here be executed. The method, lowever, is only proper when manifest tur- jescence of the vessels of the conjunctiva and i clerotica is combined with a feeling of constant •iressure about the eye, a sense of fulness and ension in the ball, and evident plethora, without jj my local inflammations or increase in the ve- il ocity of the circulation. Experience proves also, says Beer, that the ■mpirical application of rubefacients, or drawing •lasters, to the temples, or eyebrows, is fraught v'th not less efficacy, when all sensibility in the etina appears to be extinguished, without any ielect in the texture of the eye, any varicose i atation of its blood-vessels, or any particular ‘■'termination of blood to it. Applications, pro- ducing an evacuation of lymph, including both blisters and antimonial ointment, may be alter- nately employed upon the eyelids and temples, when there are grounds for believing, that the functions of the skin have already been long suspended by porrigo, or the stoppage of per- spiration on the forehead. {Beer, Lclirc von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 474 ) As in the rational plan of treatment, the rubbing- of fluid, pungent, or irritating medicines upon the eyebrows, in certain kinds of amaurotic blindness, is often attended with considerable efficacy; so, in Beer’s opinion, it should not be neglected in cases where the surgeon is compelled to have recourse to empirical methods of cure; for in- stance, where it is observable, that generally in the evening, or the shade, the eyesight imme- diately grows weaker; that, on the patient’s first awaking in the morning, it is weaker than in the middle of the day; and what particularly merits notice, while the case is unattended with any sensations of imaginary flashes of light; a very feeble, or entirely abolished motion of the iris; not the least vestige of any defect in the struc- ture of the ej'e; and no symptoms of deter- mination of blood to the head and eyes, or of a general tendency to inflammation. Beer re- commends pungent applications to be first tried; such as the spiritus aromaticus, balsamus vitae Hoffinanni, or Cologne water. These may be followed by aqueous substances, naptha, &c. then by narcotics, like the tincture of opium, and lastly, by irritating remedies, like the tinctura lyttse. Fluid applications, which are applied in the form of vapour to the eye, demand greater circumspection, like naptha, the liquor ammonias, &c. These may be best applied by putting a small quantity of them into the hand, over which the eye must be held in such a manner that none of the fluid will come into contact with it. But, as soon as the eye begins to be irritated by the vapour, the tears to run, or actual pain is felt, the hand is to be removed, lest too much irritation be pro- duced. {Beer, Vol. cit. p. 475.) Not only in the empirical, but also in every scientific mode of treating amaurosis, says this author, such remedies, as are intended to produce a shock upon the nerves and vessels, require the utmost caution, because, of all the various classes of remedies, they are the most powerful; and consequently, if misapplied, are likely to convert an amaurotic weakness of sight into complete blindness. This mournful event is most rapidly produced, when applications of this description are employed in plethoric subjects, affected with partial determinations of blood and local inflammations, a varicose state of thcjtf blood-vessels of the eye, defects in the transpa- rent media of that organ, or frequent head-ache. To this class of remedies belong especially the shower bath, electricity, galvanism, &c. On the empirical plan they can only be used with safety, or advantage, when decided marks of paralysis, either in the amaurotic eye or its ap- pendages, are present. (Lehrc von den Au- genkr. B. 2, p. 477.) Mr. Ware has observed, ^fliat the pupil has been generally dilated, in.-the cases benefited by electricity. lie notices, however, that there are many instances, in which a. contraction ol the