CGG HYDROCELE. proves, that, for the purpose of completely emp- tying an hydrocele, it is unnecessary to make the puncture very near the bottom of the tumor. I he corrugation of the scrotum, and a slight pressure, made by the surgeon’s hand, will suf- lice for discharging all the fluid contained in the tunica vaginalis, even when the puncture is made at the middle part of the swelling. (Scarpa, Truitt: des Ilcrnics, p. 64—68.) On account of the lower situation of the testicle in the hydro- cele of a child, than in that of a grown up per- son, these directions of Scarpa will also be of value. RADICAL CURE OF THIS HYDROCELE. Besides the employment of external applica- tions, wherewith a permanent cure has occasion- ally been accomplished, as related in my other work, six different operations have been practised for the same purpose; viz. incision; excision ; the application of caustic ; the introduction of a tent; the employment of a seton, and injecting some stimulating fluid into the cavity of the tu- nica vaginalis. The principle, on which the success of every plan of this kind is commonly believed to depend, is the excitement of such a degree of inflamma- tion in the tunica vaginalis, and tunica albugi- nea, forming the cavity which contains the water, as shall end in a mutual and general concretion of those membranes with each other, by which, it is evident, the receptacle for a future accumu- lation of fluid is completely obliterated. All the above plans are not equally eligible. Some of them, indeed, are now quite exploded ; and some, which are still practised by a few, are not more successful, though certainly more se- vere, than one, which will be presently recom- mended ; while others are very uncertain in their -effect, as well as painful. Incision. Making an incision, so as to lay open the ca- vity containing the fluid, is the most ancient me- thod, being described by Celsus. Paulas /Egi- neta. says, the incision is to commence at the middle of the tumor, and be carried to the upper part of it, in a line parallel to the raphe. This ■incision is only to go through the integuments; the bag, which contains the water, is then to be opened, and part of the sides of the sac taken away. A director is next to be introduced, and a division of the tunica vaginalis made to the bottom of the swelling. The cavity is after- wards to be dressed with lint, and healed by granulations. Hildanus, Dodoiueus, Wiseman, Cheselden, Heister, and Sharp, all coincide in stating the dangerous and even fatal conse- -quences sometimes following this mode. Mr. B. Bell, who preferred this operation to every •other one, acknowledges, that he lias seen it pro- duce creat pain and tension of the abdomen, in- flammation, and fever. Pott observes, that it can never be said to be totally void of danger, and that it bears the appearance of an operation of some severity. This eminent surgeon aban- doned the method, during the last twenty-six years of his lile. Severe as it is, it has also been known to fail, as Sabatier and Earle have con- firmed. Excision. Albucasis gave the first clear account of this operation, though Celsus has certainly men- tioned removing some of the sac. White and Douglas used to adopt this method. The latter advises making two incisions, so as to form an oval, from the upper to the lower part of the tu- mor ; dissecting off the oval piece of the scro- tum, and then making an opening into the sac, and enlarging it with scissors. The tunica va- ginalis was next to be entirely cut away, close to where it was connected with the spermatic vessels. The cavity was afterwards filled with lint. Sir James Earle justly notices, that this plan must have been tedious, exquisitely painful in the per- formance, and, as subsequently treated, attended with violent and dangerous symptoms. In mo- dern days, excision is only sanctioned, when the tunica vaginalis is more or less in an ossified state, for a mere thickening of it does not pre- vent the success of milder plans of treatment. With respect to a mode of excision, recently proposed by Mr. Kinder Wood, it differs en- tirely from the ancient method, inasmuch as it is perhaps the mildest of every plan, yet sug- gested for the radical cure, since it simply con- sists in puncturing the hydrocele with an abscess lancet, drawing out a little bit of the sac with a tenaculum, and cutting it off. (See Med. C/nr. Trans. Vol. &, p. 33.) But, further expe- rience is requisite to determine, whether this very easy plan is as certain as that with an injection. Whether the cavity is obliterated or not, as Mr. Kinder Wood himself believes, appears also still questionable. Caustic. Paulus iEgineta advises destroying the skin ; with a cautery of a particular form, dissecting oil’ , the eschar, and then cauterizing the exposed membrane. Guido di Cauliaco is, perhaps, the \.i first who described the application of caustic •] for the cure of hydrocele. Wiseman practised this method. Dionis advises it; but De la Faye and Garengeot make objections to it. Mr. Else has left the best account of the manner of I using caustic. He recommends laying “ a small caustic upo/i the anterior and inferior part of the I scrotum, which is intended to affect, and, if pos- sible, penetrate through the tunica vaginalis.” The objections to the employment of caustic I are, its causing an unnecessary destruction of j parts, and producing a tedious painful sore. K The action of caustic can never be so regulated as to make an opening with certainty through the tunica vaginalis, so that either its application must sometimes be repeated, or else a lancet, or I trocar, used alter all. Its success is also less sure, than that of an injection ; but, it is pre- ' j ferable to all the other methods, except this t j latter, the modification of excision proposed by i Mr. K. Wood, and, perhaps, the seton. Tent. , This is first mentioned by Franco. The ope- ijj ration consists in making an opening into them tunica vaginalis, and keeping the wound open a with a tent of.lint, linen, or sponge, so as to a make the cavity suppurate, in which the water I was contained. Bare, Guilleman, Covillard, Ruysch, Heister, and Marini, have all described f