72 AMPUTATION. these parts at the same time, instead of detaching them from each other. If this method be found perfectly efficient, and it be not objectionable, as exposing the muscles to be cut unnecessarily, I think the reason specified against it by Langen- beclc, and explained in a preceding page, not weighty enough to form a just ground for re- jecting a practice, which comes with the alleged advantage of superseding the necessity for all painful dissection of the skin from the muscles. However, in secondary amputations of the thigh if the integuments be unsound, and will not re- tract, Mr. Guthrie approves of their being dis- sected back to an equal distance all round. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 205—208.) Dr. Hennen, by giving an oblique direction to all the incisions through the muscles, obviates the necessity for much dissection of the integuments, and, he says, that, in a small limb, he has repeatedly performed the operation with one sweep of the knife, cutting obliquely inwards and upwards at once to the bone. (Principles of Military Surgery, p.265. Pd. 2.) This author, like Mr Guthrie, also re- commends carrying the knife through the fascia in the first circular incision; and so does Mr. C. Hutchinson, who makes no mention of dissecting back the skin, but simply states, that the “ inte- guments and fascia being divided by a circular incision, and retracted upwards, as high as is judged necessaiy, the superficial muscles should next be divided, &c.” (Pract. Ohs. in Surgery, p. 23. 8vo. Loud- 1816.) We are therefore to conclude, that he joins Graefe and others in thinking the separation of the skin from the fas- cia unnecessary. My own observations in prac- tice, lead me to believe, that the dissection of the integuments from the subjacent parts used for- merly to be carried to an extent beyond all moderation and necessity, and that, as it is a most painful proceeding, and hurtful by forming a large loose pouch for the lodgment of matter, it ought to be abandoned by every surgeon, who follows the method of sawing the bone consider- ably higher, than the first cut through the su- perficial muscles I am not, however, prepared to assert, that no dissection at all is generally requisite, but am rather disposed to believe the moderate adoption of it, as recommended by Mr. Hey, the most prudent. This gentleman, like Desault, (bEuvres Chir. T. 21. p.545.) is an advocate for amputating with a triple incision, and for preserving such a quantity of muscular flesh and integuments, as are proportionate to the diameter of the limb. By a triple incision, he means first an incision through the integuments alone; secondly, an incision through all the mus- cles, made somewhat higher, than that through the integuments; and thirdly, another incision through that part of the muscular flesh, which ad- heres to the bone, made round that point of the bone, where the saw is to be applied. The pro- per distance of these incisions from each other, he says, must be determined by the thickness of the limb, upon which the operation is to be per- formed ; making allowance for the retraction of the integuments, and of those muscles, which are not adherent to the bone. Supposing the cir- cumference of the limb to be twelve inches, where the bone is to be divided, the diameter is about four inches, and, if no retraction of the integu- ments were to take place, a sufficient covering of the stump would be allorded by making the first incision at the distance of two inches from the place where the bone is to be sawn, that is, at the distance of the semidiameter of the limb on each side. But, as the integuments, when in a sound state, always recede after they are divided, it is useful to make some allowance for this recession ; and to make the first incision, in this case at least two inches and a half, or three inches, below the place where the bone is to be sawn. As the pos- terior muscles of the thigh retract a great deal in the process of healing, Mr. Hey advises their division to be begun half an inch above the place -where the integuments were cut, and the anterior muscles three quarters of an inch. The integu- ments, says he, will retract a littleboth above and below the place, where they were divided; but, the distance from that place must be computed from the mark left upon the surface of the mus- cles in dividing the integuments. Thus, in fact, in a common thigh amputation, Mr. Hey deemed it necessary to detach the skin from the mus- cles merely to the extent of half an inch at the back part of the limb, and of three quarters in front: a very different practice from the old custom of making quite a bag of integuments, and turning them back, like the upper piece of a glove is turned down, or rather as the sleeves of a coat are turned up. In common amputations of the thigh, Roux strongly disapproves of separating the skin far from the muscles, as a circumstance highly un- favourable to the healing of the wound by ad- hesion; he divides only a few of the cellular bonds between the integuments and fascia; and occasionally he has imitated M. Louis in cutting through the skin, and superficial muscles to- gether. (Mem. sur la Reunion de la Plate apres L’ yImputation, §c. p. 9.) I believe the generality of the best modern operators are now convinced of the impropriety of dividing the muscles exactly in the manner directed by Mr. Alanson, viz. by letting the knife revolve uninterruptedly all round the bone with its edge turned obliquely upwards, towari s the point where it is intended to apply the saw. It is a topic, indeed, to which I have already called the reader’s attention in the foregoing columns. Langenbeck says, that he is perfectly convinced of the impossibility of forming a conical wound with one stroke of a large amputating knife, and joins Mr. Hey in approving of the triple incision. (Bibl. fur die Chir. h. 1, p. 564.) The objections first urged by Wardenburgh against Alanson’s method, are mathematically correct, inasmuch as the course of the edge of the knife, in this gentleman’s method, must be spiral, and the end of the incision be considerably higher, than the beginning of it. Such must be the result of performing the division of the mus- cles all round the limb by one continued stroke of the knife, with its edge directed obliquely upwards; for the idea of making the knife revolve in this manner, while its point is confined to an imaginary, regular, determinate circle on the bone, I believe, is now abandoned, as not really' practicable. Yet, with the exception of Desault, who confined himself to the triple incision, con- ducted on the principles of M. Louis, ((Eurres Chir- T. 2, p. 547,) few experienced surgeons refuse to acknowledge, that, in this operation, immense advantage does proceed from the ob- lique division of the muscles, the honour of bring-