•)64 SCR single instance in which sarsaparilla cured the venereal disease without the aid of mercury, either given before, or in conjunction with it. (Pract. Ohs. on the Use of Corrosive Subli- mate, cj-c. p. 78.) Mr. Pearson also contends, that sarsaparilla has not the poxver of curing; any one form of the lues venerea ; but he allows, that it may suspend, for a time, the ravages of that contagion, the disease returning, if no mer- cury should have been used. This gentleman admits, also, that sarsaparilla will alleviate sym- ptoms derived from the venereal virus. He maintains, that the exhibition of sarsaparilla does not diminish the necessity for giving less mer- cury. Nocturnal pains in the limbs, painful en- largements of the elbow and knee, membranous nodes, cutaneous ulcerations, and certain other symptoms, resembling venereal ones, are often experienced after a full course of mercury. Such complaints, Mr. Pearson allows, are greatly benefited by sarsaparilla, and exaspe- rated by mercury ; and, he observes, that it is from these complaints having been mistaken for venereal ones, that the idea has arisen, that sar- saparilla has cured syphilis, when mercury had failed. Mercury, and the venereal poison, may jointly produce, in certain constitutions, sym- ptoms which are not strictly venereal, and are sometimes more dreadful, than the simple effects of syphilis. Some of the worst of these appear- ances are capable of being cured by sarsaparilla, while the venereal virus still remains in the system. When this latter disease has been era- dicated by mercury, sarsaparilla will also cure the sequelae of a course of the other medicine. (Pearson on the EJfcctsof various Articles in the Cure of Lues Venerea, 1807.) The value of many of the foregoing opinions is much affected by the results of modern inquiries into the nature of the venereal disease, the pos- sibility of generally curing which, without the aid of mercury, seems well established, though the expediency of the method is another question. SCA'LPEL. (from scalpo, to scrape.) Ori- ginally a raspatory, or instrument for scraping diseased bones, Ac. The term now generally signifies a common, straight, surgical knife. SCA'RIFICATION. (from scariflco, to scarify.) The operation of making little cuts, or punctures, in a part, for the purpose of taking away blood, letting out fluid in anasarcous cases, or air, in instances of emphysema. SCIRRIIUS; SCIRRHOMA; SCIR- RIIOSIS. (from (Tx.pfcw, to harden) The etymological import of these terms seems merely to be any induration. The first is now gene- rally restricted to the induration, which precedes cancer in the ulcerated state. SCLEIIJASIS; SCLEROSIS. (from cy.'k-n^M, to harden.) A hard tumor, or in- duration. SCRO'PIIULA, or SCR.OFULA. (from scroja, a sow.) So named as is commonly sup- posed, because swine are said to be subject to it, though the correctness of this etymology is rendered very questionable by the remarks of Dr. Henning, and the statement, that pigs are reallv liable to scrophula would appear to be erroneous. (See Critical Inquiry into the Pa- - . n t \ .11 1 » SCR of submitting patients formerly to the supposed beneficial efleets of the royal touch. A disease, one of the chief, or most palpable symptoms of which is a chronic swelling of the absorbent glands, in various parts of the body, which glands generally tend very slowly to imperfect suppura- tion. Our notions of scrophula, however, would be very imperfect, were we to define the disorder to be a morbid state of the lymphatic glandular system. The first appearances, indeed, fre- quently consist of spots on different parts of the body, and of eruptions and ulcerations behind the ears. As a judicious author remarks, the system of absorbent glands, it is true, seldom, or never fails to become affected in the progress of the disease ; but, there is reason to believe, that scrophula frequently appears, for the first time, in parts, which are not of a glandular nature. There are, perhaps, but few, if any, of the textures of the human body, or of the organs, which these textures form, that are not liable to attacks of scrophula, and to scrophula as an original idio- pathic affection. (Thompson s Lectures on In- flammation, p. 134.) These sentiments are en- tirely at variance with those of Alibert, and many other moderns, who describe the disease as having its commencement in the conglobate glands, especially those of the neck, (Nosol. Naturcllc, T. 1, p. 441, 4to. Paris, 1817;) and they are equally opposite to the doctrine of Dr. Henning, who argues, that the superficial ab- sorbent glands alone are susceptible of the origi- nal action of the cause of this disease, and that if other parts become affected by it, such affec- tion is consequential. (On the Pathology of Scrophula, Chap. 6.) Scrophula generally shews itself during in- fancy, between the age of three and seven; sometimes rather sooner; but, frequently, as late as puberty, and, in some instances, though a very few, not till a much more advanced period of life. In the latter cases, the disease is said to be rarely so complete, or well marked, as it is in young subjects. “ Cetie maladie (says Alibert) est comrnunement le partage de la pre- miere enfance. II est rare qu’elle se developne ehez les adultes. Je l’ai pourtant observee chez des septuagenaircs; mais presque toujours ce sont, les effects de la dentition qui la font cclore, et ceux de la puberte, qui la font evanouir. — (Nosol. Naturcllc, p. 448.) By some authors, it is stated, that the disease seldom attacks the glands in children under two years of age. Dr. Thomson, however, has seen the glands affected before this period, and Dr. Cullen used to mention a case, in which the dis- ease broke out in an infant only three months old; which, according to Dr. Thomson, is tin- common. But, though glandular scrophula oc- curs most frequently in children, it is by no means confined to that period of life. Dr. Thomson has even found the lacteal glands af- fected with serophulous inflammation in persons of very advanced age. (Lectures on Inflam- mation, p. 136.) Probably, however, such pa- tients had laboured under serophulous complaints in their earlier (lavs ; and it merits notice, that some authors, like Dr. Ilenning, (P- 110) do not regard enlargement of the mesenteric glands, __ i : Tt i«