JOINTS. 72 At first, as Mr. Brodie has observed, the joints should be kept perfectly quiet, and blood should be several times taken from the part, by means of leeches and cupping. The latter is the me- thod, to which the preceding writer expresses the preference. The use of cold evaporating lotions is also to be continued until the inflam- mation has further abated, when a blister may be applied, and kept open with the savin cerate, or a repetition of blisters kept up, as preferred by Mr. Brodie. “ The blisters (he says) should be of considerable size; and if the joint be deep- seated, they may be_ applied as near to it as pos- - sible; but, otherwise, at a little distance. Thus, when the synovial membrane of the hip is af- fected, they may be placed on the groin and nates; but, when that of the wrist is inflamed, they should be applied to the lower part of the forearm. Mr. Brodie thinks blisters have more effect, than any other means, in removing the swelling; but, excepting in very slight cases, he very rightly condemns their use, unpreceded by the abstraction of blood. After the subsidence of the inllammation, moderate exercise of the joint, and stimulating liniments arerecommended. The camphor liniment is to be strengthened with the addition of liquor ammoniac, or tinctura lyttae, or the following formula adopted, as that to which the above gentleman seems to give the pre- ference. Olei olivre <jiss. acid, sulpli. ~ss. M. He speaks also favourably of the effects of the antimonial ointment, in the proportion of >j. of the antira. tart, to t j; ung. cetacei. Plas- ters of gum ammoniac he regards as sometimes useful in preventing relapses. Issues and setons are never serviceable, unless ulceration of the cartilages has begun. For the removal of the remains of the swelling and stiffness, Mr. Brodie joins other writers in praising the efficacy of fric- tion and exercise. The friction may be made with camphorated mercurial ointment, or with powdered starch; but the friction is to be em- ployed with caution, as otherwise it may produce a return of the inflammation. When this hap- pens, it is to be discontinued, and blood taken from the part. On the whole, Mr. Brodie ap- pears to consider friction better adapted to cases, where the stiffness depends upon the state of the external parts, than in others, where it arises from disease in the joint itself. With respect to the plan of allowing a column of warm water to fall on the part, as suggested by Le Dran, and practised at the watering places, he allows, that it is beneficial, but that it requires the same caution, as the employment of friction. (Pathol. and Surg. Ohs. p. 30, <| c.) I have met with several instances, in which lotions, composed of vinegar and muriate of am- monia, sufficed for the removal of the chronic complaints, left after the acute stage of the disorder. The severity of the constitutional symptoms is mostly, if not always, greater, when the inflam- mation of a large joint arises from a wound, than when it is the consequence of a bruise, or sprain. Loouc cartilages in joints.—Hard, roundish, or flattened bodies, mostly of a cartilaginous nathre, are sometimes formed within the cap- sular ligaments, occasioning more or less pain in the affected joints, and a considerable impedi- ment to the freedom of their movements. The disorder, though not noticed by any of the very ancient writers, is far from being uncommon. Fare is the first who speaks of it: he says, that a hard polished, wh ite hod//, of the size of an almond, was discharged from the knee of a pa- tient, in the year 15f>8, in which he had made an incision for an aqaeoas apostumc, (without doubt an hydrops urticuli.) (Liv. 2b, chap. 15, p. 772.) A hundred and thirty-three years afterwards, viz. in 1691, Peehlin published the full details of another case, in which a carti- laginous body was successfully extracted from the knee. (Ohservat. Physico-med. Ohs. 38, p. 306.) Dr. Alexander Monro in 1726, dis- sected the knee joint of a woman, who had been hung, and found in the articulation a cartilaginous body, of the shape and size of a small bean. These were the only examples of the disease known before the year 1736, at which period Mr. Simson cut out of the knee a similar sub- stance, which he supposed at the time of the operation was only beneath the skin. (See Edinh. Med. Essays, Vol. 4.) Since the publication of this last case, the dis- ease has been several times met with in England by Bromfield, Hewit, Middleton, Gooch, Ford, Home, Bell, Abernethy, &c. ; in Germany, by Henckel, Theden, Loefller, &c.; and in France, by Desault, Sabatier, and many other practi- tioners. Hence, as Boyer remarks, this dis- order is now as well known, as most others, to which the joints are subject. (Traite des Mai. Cldr. T. 4,p. 434.) Such detached and moveable cartilages are not peculiar to the knee, as they occur in other joints; yet they are most frequently met with in the knee, and it is in this joint that they pro- duce symptoms, which render them the object of a chirurgical operation. Morgagni and B. Bell met with them in the ankle; Haller in the joint of the jaw; and Hey in the elbow. According to Sir Everard Home, these sub- stances are analogous in their structure to bone; but, in their external appearance, they bear a greater resemblance to cartilage. They are not, however, always exactly of the same structure, being in some instances softer, than in others. Their external surface is smooth and polished, and, being lubricated by the synovia, allows them to be moved readily from one part of the joint to another. They seldom remain long at rest, while the limb is in motion ; and when they happen to be in situations where they are pressed upon with force by the different parts of the joint, they occasion considerable pain, and materially interfere with its necessary motions. The circumstance of their being loose, and having no visible attachment, made it difficult to offer good conjectures respecting their formation; and, according to Sir E Home, no satisfactory account of their origin had been given, when Mr. Hunter made his observations. In the course of his experiments, instituted with a view to esta- blish a living principle in the blood, Mr. Hunter was naturally induced to attend to the pheno- mena, which took place, when that fluid was ex- travasated, whether in consequence ol accidental violence, or other circumstances. Fhe lirst change lie found to be coagulation; and the coagulum thus formed, it in contact with living parts, did not produce an irritation similar to