336 CINCHONA. form new skin, they are generally guided to it by the surrounding skin, which gives this disposition to the surface of the adjoining granulations. 'I he new-formed skin is never so large as the sore was, on which it is formed, owing to the contraction of the granulations, and the yielding of the surrounding old skin. If the sore" is situ- ated where the adjoining skin is loose, as in the scrotum, then the contractile power of the granu- lations being quite free from obstruction, a very little new skin is formed; but if the sore is situ- ated where the skin is fixed or tense, the new skin is nearly as large as the sore. The new skin is at first commonly on the same level with the old. This however is not the case with scalds and burns, which frequently heal with a cicatrix, higher than the skin, although thegranu- lations may have been kept from rising higher than this part. The new-formed cutis is neither so yielding nor so elastic as the original is; it is also less move- able. It gradually becomes, however, more flexi- ble and loose. At first it is very thin and tender, but it afterwards becomes firmer and thicker. It is a smooth continued skin, not formed with those insensible indentations, which are observed in the natural or original skin, and by which the latter admits of any distention, which the cellular mem- brane itself will allow of. This new cutis, and indeed all the substance which had formerly been granulations, is not nearly so strong, nor endowed with such lasting and proper actions, as the originally formed parts. The living principle itself is less active; for when an old sore breaks out, it continues to yield, till almost the whole of the new-formed matter has been absorbed, or has mortified. The young cutis is extremely full of vessels; but these afterwards disappear, and the part be- comes white. The surrounding old skin, being drawn toward the centre by the contraction of the granulations, is thrown into loose folds, while the new skin itself seems to be upon the stretch, having a smooth shining appearance. The new cuticle is more easily formed from the cutis, than the cutis itself from granulations. Every point of the surface of the cutis is con- cerned in forming cuticle, so that this is form- ing equally every where at once ; but the forma- tion of the cutis is principally progressive from the adjoining skin. The new cuticle is at first very thin, and rather pulpy than horny. As it becomes stronger, it looks smooth and shining, and is more trans- parent than the old cuticle. The rete mucosum is later in forming than the cuticle, and in some cases never forms at all. In blacks who have been wounded, or blistered, the cicatrix is a considerable time before it becomes dark; and in one black, whom Mr. Hunter saw, the scar of a sore, which had been upon his leg when young, remained white when he was old. Many cicatrices of blacks, however, are even darker than any other parts of the skin. (Hunter cm the Blood, Inflammation, tyc. The nailer may also consult Thomson's Lectures on Injiammation, p. 399, dfc.) CICUTA. See Conium Mac (datum. CINCHONA. As one of the designs of this dictionary is to embrace the subjects of a surgical pharmacopoeia, peruvian bark, which is admini- stered in a multiplicity of surgical cases, cannot be passed over in silence. Its great repute for its virtues in stopping mortifications, and accelerating the separation of the sloughs, every person, whether of the medical profession or not, lias frequently heard of. In- deed, so high is the character of the medicine, that many practitioners order it in some stage, or another, of almost every distemper, often pre- scribe it when it is totally useless, give it when it actually does barm, and make their patients swal- low such quantities as operate perniciously, when smaller doses would effect striking benefit. Some- men are credulous enough to think, that from the peruvian bark vigor and strength are directly extricated, and infused into the constitution, in exact proportion to the quantity of the medicine, which the stomach will keep down and digest. While a doctrine of this sort prevails, we must expect to see indiscriminate and erroneous prac- tice. The generality of diseases will always be attended with an appearance of languor and weak- ness, and, certainly, while there exists a supposi- tion that a drug is at hand, possessing the quality of evolving and communicating strength, it would be absurd to fancy, that so important an article will not be largely exhibited in a multiplicity of surgical cases. I shall not presume to hazard an idea of the powers of the peruvian bark in the practice of physic; but, I have not the least doubt, that they have been unwarrantably exag- gerated in surgery, so as to blind and prejudice many a practitioner of good abilities, and lead him to adopt injudicious and hurtful methods of treatment. Under particular circumstances, bark has un- doubtedly the quality of increasing the tone of the digestive organs ; and, of course, whenever the indication is to strengthen the system by nourishing food, and the appetite fails, this medi- cine may prove of the highest utility, provided it is given in moderate doses, and it appears to agree with the stomach and bowels. But, the plan of making the patient swallow as much of p the medicine as can be got into his stomach, must, in my opinion, be invariably followed by- bad, instead of good effects. How can it be reasonably expected, that the stomach, which is already out of order, can be set right by having j an immoderate quantity of any drug whatever forced into it ? In fact, if the alimentary canal were in a healthy state, must not such practice be likely to throw it into a disordered condition ? Barkis an excellent medicine, when judiciously- administered ; but, like every other good medi- ; cine, in bad bands, it mayT be the means of pro- '■ ducing the worst consequences. How much good ; does mercury effect in an infinite number of sur- j gical diseases, when prescribed by a surgeon of understanding ; what a poison it becomes under the direction of an ignorant practitioner ! With j respect to cases of mortification, bark is often most strongly indicated, when the sloughing is not surrounded with active inflammation, when ; the patient is debilitated, and his stomach cannot j take nutritious food, 1 have always regarded the i notion of giving bark, as a specific for gangrene, as totally unfounded and absurd. I have watched its effects in these cases, and could never dis- ! cern, that it had the least peculiar power of ope-