still continue to drink water from the same source as before, without taking any precaution, as boil- i,,,, 4. The disease in this country is lessfre- (iiientlv found among men. 5. Many instances may be related ofa swelling in the neck, sometimes very painful, and generally termed bronchocele, being produced very suddenly, by difficult parturition, violent coughing, or any other unusually power- ful effort. "(See Ed in. Med. and-Surgical Jour- mu', Vol. 4, p. 279.) When the gland is sudden- ly enlarged during a violent exertion, the disten- tion is said to be produced by the passage of air from the trachea into the substance of the thyroid ■dand, and surrounding cellular membrane. But, whether this statement be a fact or not, it is un- questionably true, that, in many patients, the tumor always becomes increased in size, when they speak loud, sing, or make any effort. (Fla- jivu Cullez. d’Oss. 6\c. T. 3, p. 276, and Pgstig- lione, p. 24.) The disease is sometimes seen in scrofulous subjects ; but, there is every reason to believe, that it is quite independent of the other disorder, as Prosser, Wilmer, and Kortum have particularly explained. The following are some points of difference, between bronchocele and scrofula, as indicated by Dr. Postiglione. 1. The true bronchocele is simply a local disease of the neck, the constitution being unaffected. On the contrary, scrofula extends its effects to the whole >vstcm, attacking not only the lymphatic glands, >ut also the muscles, the cellular membrane, the igainents, cartilages, and bones. 2. Both diseases •biefly occur in young subjects; but, bronchocele lften begins at a later age, than scrofula, and does tot, like the latter, spontaneously disappear, as the ratient approaches puberty, and gains strength. •. Scrofulous glands often suppurate and ulcer- te; bronchocele rarely undergoes these changes, i. The thickening of the upper lips of serofu- ous subjects, is not an attendant on bronchocele; nd, while theformer patients generally enjoytheir nental faculties in perfection, as long as they live, helatterdisease in certain countries isoftenjoined ith cretinism. Scrofula is likewise always hcre- itary; while bronchocele is not so : no healthy ersons become scrofulous by living a long hile amongst scrofulous patients; but many in- ividuals contract bronchocele by going from a juntry where this disease is unknown, and taking p their residence in places where it abounds. . Nature alone often cures scrofula, while art Idom succeeds; on the contrary, bronchocele is Horn cured by nature, but very frequently by t. G. The muriate of lime, recommended by ourcroy for the cure of scrofula, is always use- ss: but, in bronchocele, it proves a valuable re- edy. (Pos liglume Memorin suit a Nat nr a del Goz- ,<5t. p. 25.) The error of confounding broncho- le with scrofula is now generally acknowledged, t the hospital St. Louis, says Alibert, scrofu- us patients are very numerous, while those with oiichocde are very rare. (iNasal. Nat. T. I, 165.) On the mountainous parts of Derby- ire, Genoa, and Piedmont, they attribute the oncbocele to drinking water cooled with ice. > this theory, many of the objections, concern i the earthy impregnation of water, stand in 11 force; with this additional rcllection, that BRONCHOCELE. 2:kJ met with, nor, (says Watson) did I ever see one of them in Westmorland, where we have higher mountains, and more snow than they have in Derbyshire, in which county, they are very com- mon. But what puts the matter beyond a "doubt, i% that these wens are common in Sumatra, where there is no snow, during any part of the year.” (T'Fafswi’s Chemical, Assays, No/. p. 1 57.) The above opinion was also refuted by Fodere, who remarks, that the Swiss, who reside at the bottom of the Glaciers, are the least sub- ject to the disease. Bronchoceles are also said to be unknown in Lapland. Respecting the influence of particular water in bringing on the disease, Dr. Odier gives credit to the opinion, because it has appeared to him, that distilled water prevented the increase of the tumor, and even tended to lessen its bulk. (See Manuel lieMedecine Pratique, 8vo, Gener. 181 1.) However, without denying this power of distilled water, I think the foregoing considerations satis- factorily prove, that the disease neither proceeds from snow water, nor water impregnated with particular salts. An observation, lately made by an intelligent writer, would lead one to conclude, that cretinism depends upon malformation of the head. Speak- ing of goitre, as it appears among the inhabitants of the valley ofMaurienne, Baron Larrey informs us, that, in many of these people, with this fright- ful deformity is joined that of the cranium, ofr which the smallness and excessive thickness are especially remarkable. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. 71 1, p. 123.) Dr. Leake thinks, that tumors of this sort may be owing to the severity of the cold damp air, as they generally appear in winter, and hardly ever in the warm dry climates of Italy and Portugal. The latter part of the observa- tion, however, is not correct, for Dr. Postiglione and other Italian writers assure us, that the dis- ease is extremely common in some of the warm- est parts of Italy. “ Qtn in Napoli, eper tutloil regno, si veggono mold gozzuti, mn jion in numera tale, come in Casoria, ed in pochi ultri villaggi.” (p. 21.) Prosser is inclined to consider the bronchocele, as a kind of dropsy of the thyroid gland, similar to the dropsy of the ovary, and he mentions, that Dr. Hunter dissected one thyroid gland, which had been considerably enlarged, and contained many cysts filled with water. These, he erroneously concludes, must have been hyda- tids. Dr. Baillie remarks, that when a section is made of the thyroid gland, affected with this disease, the part is found to consist of a number of cells, containing a transparent viscid fluid. In all probability, the ordinary bronchocele is entirely a local disease, patients usually finding themselves, in other respects, perfectly well. The tumor itself frequently occasions no particular inconvenience, and is only a deformity. There is no malignancy in the disease, and the swelling is not prone to inflame, or suppurate, though, as- Dr. Hunter remarks, abscesses do occasionally form in it. Alibcrt’s case of bronchocele be- coming cancerous is singular. Mr. Gooch never knew life to be endangered by this sort of tumor, however large, a remark very much with the observations of sonic other 7 at variance __ In Greenland, where snow-water is commonly practitioners; but, lie had seen great inconveni ct* these unsightly protuberances are never cnee arise from it, when combined with quinsy