SUTURES. 1011 - his subject well deserves perusal; and it may seen either in Larrey'x Me moires tie Chi- rk MiUtaire, or in the Diet, des Sciences dial lex, T. 5. USPENSORY. A bandage for supporting scrotum; a bag-truss. Bandages of this 1 are now usually sold at the shops, and om made by surgeons themselves; therefore irticular description of them is not essential i his work. In cases of hernia humoralis, cocele, cirsocele, some particular ruptures, several other affections of the testicle, and inatic chord, a suspensory bandage is of in- e service. . UTURES. (from sko, to sew.) A suture, irgerv, means a mode of uniting the edges wound, by keeping them in contact with lies. [r. Sharp remarks, that “ when a wound is nt, and the parts of it are divided by a sharp •ument, without any further violence, and, uch manner, that they may be made to sp- elt each other, by being returned with the is, they will, if held in close contact for some :, reunite by inosculation, and cement, like branch of a tree ingrafted on another. . To itain them in this situation, several sorts of res have been invented, and formerly prac- I, but the number of them has, of late, been much reduced. Those now chieHy de- >ed are the interrupted, the glover's, the ’ d, the twisted, and the dry, sutures; but, interrupted and twisted are almost the only id ones, for the quilled suture is never pre- le to the interrupted; the dry suture is ri- ous in terms, since it is only a piece of er, applied in many different ways, to re- i the lips of the wound; and the glover’s, linterrupted stitch, which is recommended in rficial wounds, to prevent the deformity of a does rather, by the frequency of the stitches, sion it, and is therefore to be rejected, in ur of a compress and sticking plaster.” cr. of Surgery.) The twisted suture is de- >ed in speaking of the harelip; and gas- (tphe, which also properly belongs to the ent subject, forms a distinct article in this ttooaiy. nterrupted Suture.—The wound being tsed from all clots of blood, and its lips r brought evenly into contact, the needle, :d with a ligature, is to be carefully carried without, inwards to the bottom, and so on within outwards. Care must be taken to ? the puncture far enough from the edge of round, lest the ligature should tear quite igh the skin and flesh. This distance, ac- ug to Mr. Sharp, may be three, of four- s of an inch. The other stitches required inly repetitions of the same process. The ids having been all passed, “ you are in ral to begin tying them in the middle of round; though, it the lips be held carefully iher, (says Mr. Sharp,) it will not be of t consequence, which stitch is tied first.” 'rations, Chap. 1.) Jrgical writers in general state, that the her of stitches must, in a great measure, nd upon the extent of the wound. The non rule is, that one suture is sufficient for i inch of the wound; but, that, in some in- stances, a stitch must be more frequently made, particularly when a wound gapes very muqh, in consequence of a transverse division of muscles. As we have already explained, it is necessary to pierce the skin, at a sufficient distance from the sides of the wound, lest the thread should cut through the flesh in a short time: but, though Mr. Sharp lays down the necessary distance, in general, as three, or four-tenths of an inch, and others advise the needle to be always carried through the deepest part of the wound, we must receive these directions, particularly the last, as subject to numerous exceptions. When a wound is very deep, it would be conspicuously absurd, and even, in many instances, dangerous, to drive the needle through a vast, thickness of parts, Other wounds, of considerable length, might not be, in some places, four-tenths of an inch deep; though it is true, sutures could never be requisite at such points. The needles for making the interrupted suture will pass, with the greatest facility, when their shape corresponds exactly with the segment of a circle, and they should always form a track of sufficient size to allow the ligatures, which they draw after them, to pass through the flesh with the utmost ease. The interrupted suture obviously receives its name from the interspaces between the stitches; and it is the one most frequently employed. Its action is always to be assisted, and supported, either with the uniting bandage, (see Bandage,) or with strips of adhesive plaster, compresses, &c. ' Quilled Suture.—As Mr. John Bell has observed : “ when the wound was deep among the muscular flesh, the old surgeons imagined, that so large a wound could not be commanded by the common interrupted suture, however deep the stitches might be driven among the flesh; they were, besides, fearful of using the continued (glover’s) suture in deep gashes, lest the wound should be made to adhere superficially, while it was still open within, forming perhaps a suppuration, or deep collection of matter. They believed, that a deep muscular wound could not be safely healed, without a degree of suppura- tion; while they wished to bring it together at the bottom, they were afraid to close it very exactly at the mouth, lest the matter should be collected in the deeper parts of the wound; it was for this purpose (says Mr. John Bell) that they used, what they called the compound or quilled suture. It is merely the interrupted suture, with this difference, that the ligatures are not tied over the face of the wound, but over two quills, or rolls of plaster, or bougies, which are laid along the sides of the wound. In per- forming this suture, we make first two, three, or four stitches, of the interrupted suture very deep, and then, all the ligatures being put in, we lay two bougies along the sides of the wound, then slip one bougie into the loop of the ligatures on one side, drawing all the ligatures from the other side, (Mr. Bell should rather have said towards the other side,) till that bougie is firmly braced down. Next we lay the other bougie, and make the knots of each ligature over it, and draw it also pretty firm; and thus the ligatures, in form of an arch, go deep into the bottom of the wound, and hold it close, while the bougies, or quills, ' :$ 1' 2