1142 VENEREAL DISEASE. gonorrhoea. The connexion took place within an hour. (Military Surgery, Edit. 7, p. 526.) These facts would indeed be much more interest- ing! if the disease! with which the women were affected, had been ascertained, and one could securely calculate upon the men not having ex- posed themselves, within a given time, to any other sources-of infection. In short, without a perfect history and description of cases of this kind, from their beginning to tlmir end, no light is thrown by them on the question about the venereal and gonorrhoeal poisons. Nor does Dr. Hennen quote them with this view; but for the purpose of exemplifying the variety of effects, produced on different individuals apparently by the same infection, though the same considera- tion, which prevents any certain inference from such observations, in regard to the identity of the venereal and gonorrhoeal poisons, seems also to interfere with the other conclusion. In the experiments, detailed both by Hunter and B. Bell, there is also one point assumed by both parties, though it is far from being determined ; viz. that, the matter discharged from the urethra is always of one kind, in respect to its infectious principle whatever this may be, and that the secretion from every chancre contains one, and only one species of infectious matter. From the candid and very practical work of Mr. Evans, it would appear, that some ulcerations on the penis, such as would usually be called chancres, though they have of late years been sometimes named elevated ulcers, arise from an altered secretion, without any breach of surface, or discernible disease in the female organs. The same gentleman was also frequently present at the examinations of the public women in Valenciennes, and always surprised at the small portion of disease to be found amongst them : “ At one which I attended (says he), no less than 200 women of the lowest description, and, of course, the most frequented by soldiers, were examined, and not one case of disease was found among them: nevertheless the Military Hospitals had, and continued to have, their usual number of venereal cases (ulcerations). “ At an inspection, I have since attended, where 100 women were examined, only two were found with ulcerations : I noticed several with increased secretions, and one with purulent dis- charge, but these were taken no notice of by the attending surgeons, as they did not come suffi- ciently under the head of virulent gonorrhoea. “ That the two women, above mentioned as having ulcers, infected the whole of the men dis- eased in garrison, during the preceding fifteen days, no one can for a moment admit even as likely; but, if it be allowed, that an altered se- cretion be sufficient for the production of this disease, (the ulcus elevatum) we shall at once have an explanation of how it happened, that the military hospitals continued to have their usual number of venereal cases, &c.” (Evans on Ulcerations of the Genital Organs, p. 72, 73, dj-e.) From the investigations of the same au- thor, the ulcus elevatum is the most frequent of all the sores met with on the genitals, and besides being excited by diseased secretions, and go- mnHnr ic rn nrthlr nf' ht’ill rr trail s/r r rrri Lagneau admits, that gonorrhoea may not al- ways proceed from the same poison, as the vene- real disease; but, he believes, that in the greater number of instances, the virus is of the same quality. He is led to this opinion by the consi- deration of several women having been infected by the same man with both complaints, and of the two diseases having been communicated to several men who had cohabited with one woman, and as is presumed with her alone, at least, in- asmuch as may relate to the possibility of any other infection weakening the conclusion -at- tempted to be drawn from the case; a point, which has only been assumed, and by no means ascertained. However, be this and other similar narrations true, or not, in every particular, I agree with Mr. Guthrie in believing, that the evi- dence, adduced on the point under consideration, justifies the opinion, “ that ulcers will arise on the penis from the matter of gonorhoea; that gonorrhoea will in its turn be caused by the mat- ter of these same ulcers, and that both occur in consequence of promiscuous, or uncleanly inter- course. That many of the ulcers, produced in this manner, will occasionally assume every character of chancre, and cannot be distinguish- ed from it, I am perfectly satisfied of from re- peated observation; but, I am equally certain, that a gonorrhoea in men, with the worst appear- ances and symptoms, can, and often does, arise from irritating causes common to parts free from any specific disease, or poison, is not distinguish- able from one that has arisen from promiscuous intercourse, and that both complaints are curable in the same way, and without mercury.” On the question, whether gonorrhoea, or the ulcers resulting from the matter of gonorrhoea, can pro- duce constitutional symptoms, Mr. Guthrie be- lieves, that they generally do not, although he does not affirm, that they cannot under particu- lar circumstances of constitution; and he is fur- ther of opinion, that if such symptoms ever really arise, they become serious only in consequence of the exhibition of mercury. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 554.) From what has been already observed, it must be evident, that one of the greatest obstacles to our arrival at a satisfactory knowledge of the na- ture of lues venerea, is the fact, that under this denomination, many various diseases are com- prised and confounded, and the particulart di- stinctions of each of which are not yet suffi- ciently made out, to enable surgeons to form a well-founded, and practical classification of them, satisfactory to every impartial observer, aiidj agreeing with general experience. But though) such progress has not yet been made, the atten-* tion of modern practitioners, and especially tha of Mr. Carmichael, has been directed to the subHf ject. In fact, notwithstanding some mysterioui circumstances in particular syphilitic cases may not admit of complete and satisfactory explana- tion by the doctrine of a plurality of poisons, nq| intelligent surgeons, I believe, now suppose that the diseases, frequently communicated by sexua intercourse, always proceed from one peculiai poison. As Mr. llose has observed, long befon I syphilis is supposed to have commenced its ca rnur in the world, some of these diseases werd r