1161 VENEREAL DISEASE. lake their appearance on any surface whatever, ither the throat, or common skin. But, Mr. lunter conceived, that if the matter, when in ie constitution, were to act upon the same spe- .,tic principles, ns that, which is externally ap- lied, a gonorrhoea would arise, when it affected . canal, and, only sores, or chancres, when it at- ueked other surfaces. Mr. Hunter found, that even the sores, which ree caused in the throat, are very different from nancres. He says, that the true chancre pro- aces considerable inflammation, often attended ith a great deal of pain, and quickly followed vy suppuration. But, the local effects, arising om the virus in the constitution, are slow in aeir progress, attended with little inflammation, | id are seldom or never painful, except in parti- ular parts. However, Mr. Hunter allows, that iis sluggishness in the effects of the poison de- ends on the nature of the parts diseased; and, owns, that when the tonsils, uvula, or nose, re affected, the progress of the morbid mischief rapid, and bears a greater resemblance to a lancre, than when it occurs on the skin. Even those parts Mr. Hunter thought, that the ul- ;rs were attended with less inflammation, than lancres, which were spreading with equal ce- • rity. Before the time of Mr. Hunter, the matter, creted by sores, which arise from a constitu- Jnal infection, was always considered to be of a aisonous quality, like the matter of a chancre. • t first, one would expect, that this must actually : the case, because venereal matter is the cause, . d mercury cures chancres, and also ulcers pro- eding from a lues venerea. Mr. Hunter re- marks, however, that the latter circumstance is it a decisive proof, since mercury is capable of 'ring many diseases, besides the venereal. e also takes notice, that when pus is absorbed im a chancre, it generally produces a bubo ; a, that a bubo is never occasioned by the ab- : rption of matter from a venereal sore, arising >m the virus diffused in the circulation. For stance, when there is a venereal ulcer in the roat, no buboes occur in the glands of the ■ck ; when there are syphilitic sores on the ms, or even suppurating nodes on the ulna, no ellings form in the glands of the arm-pit, al- ough these complaints occur, when fresh vene- 1 matter is applied to a common sore on the m, hand, or fingers. No swelling is produced the groin, in consequence of nodes, or blotches i the legs and thighs. Some very important experiments are related Mr. Hunter’s Treatise on the Venereal Dis- se, in order to prove, that the matter from a ■norrhcea, or chancre, is capable of affecting a tn locally, who is already labouring under a -S venerea, and that the matter from secondary philitic sores has not the same power. The rticulars, however, are too long to be inserted this book. Purls most susceptible of tht Lucs Venerea, '• Some parts of the body seem to be much *s susceptible of the lues venerea, than others; deed, Mr. Hunter observes, that, as far as our lotvledgc extends, certain parts cannot be of- -ted at all. The brain, heart, stomach, liver, lneys, and several other viscera, have never en known to be attacked by syphilis. The first order of parts, or those, which be- come affected in the early stage of the lues venerea, are the skin, tonsils, nose, throat, in- side of the mouth, and sometimes the tongue. The second order of purls, or those, which are affected at a later period, are the periosteum, fasciae, and bones. Mr. Hunter conceived, that one great reason of the superficial parts of the body suffering the effects of the lues venerea sooner, than the deep- seated ones, depends on the former being more exposed to external cold. He remarked, that even the second order of parts do not all become diseased at the same time, nor every where at once. But, on the contrary, such as are nearest the external surface of the body, are first disr eased, as, for instance, the periosteum, bones of the head, the tibia, ulna, bones of the nose, &c. Neither does the disease affect these bones equally on all sides ; but, first on that side, which is next to the external surface. It was Mr. Hunter’s belief, however, that the susceptibility of particular bones did not altogether depend upon their nearness to the skin; but, upon this circumstance, and their hardness together. The foregoing account by no means agrees with the results of modern inquiries into the nar ture of the venereal disease ; for, unless mercury be given, it appears, that the bones are very seldom affected by it. Thus, in the cases, which were treated by Mr. Rose without mercury, he observes, that “ the constitutional symptoms were evidently not such as could be regarded as venereal, if we give credit to the commonly re- ceived ideas on the subject. Caries of the bones, and some of the least equivocal symptoms, did not occur. In no instance, was there that uni- form progress, with unrelenting fury, from one order of symptoms and parts affected to another, which is considered as an essential characteristic of true syphilis.” {Med. Chir. Trans. Vol.8, p. 423.) We learn also from Mr. Guthrie, that the bones were not affected in any of the cases, cured entirely without mercury in the York Hospital, though there were several other cases admitted, “ in which a few mercurial pills had been taken, and the mouth not affected, and in which the primary symptoms were followed by eruptions, both papular and scaly, by ulcers in the throat, by nodes, and, in one case, by in- flammation of the periosteum covering the bones of the nose, and ulceration of the septum nasi, although mercury was resorted to for its cure.” (Vol. cit. p. 560.) It: the examples, treated without mercury, un- der the superintendence of Dr. Hennen, this gentleman did not see “ a single case, in which the bones of the nose were affected: some cases of periostitis, and of pains and swellings of the bones of the cranium and extremities were met with ; but, except in two, he never remarked any nodes, which could be regarded as unequivocally syphilitic.'1 One of these yielded to blisters and sarsaparilla; the other, after resisting guaia- cum and sudorifics, was dispersed by mercury, [On Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 581.) Dr. Hennen’s statement on this subject would have been more satisfactory, had it comprised his opinion of the characters of an unequivocally syphilitic node. On the whole, it appears toler- ably certain, that mercury, especially when cm.