COllNEA. 313 the incision in the conjunctiva. The wound con- tracts, and growing smaller and smaller, soon cicatrizes. Bathing the eye with warm milk and rose-water is the only local treatment necessary in this stage of the complaint. Thus, not only the transparency of the cornea is revived, but also the preternatural laxity of the conjunctiva is diminished, or even removed. AVhen the conjunctiva subsequently appears, yel- lowish and wrinkled, the use of topical astrin- gents and corroborants, and of Janin’s ophthal- mic ointment, may be highly beneficial, in pre- venting the recurrence of the varicose state of the vessels. (Scarpa sulle maluiiie degli vcchi, c. S.) According to the experience of Dr. Vetch, Scarpa’s plan of removing the plexus of varicose vessels, together with a portion of the conjunc- tiva, produces no good effect, “ except In cases of great relaxation of the membrane covering the eye.” He asserts, that new vessels immediately appear in the room of those removed, and the good derived from the bleeding does not com- pensate for the irritation produced by the opera- tion. (A P radical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 86.) However, when it is reflected, that Scarpa advises this practice only for advanced cases, and particularly recommends topical astrin- i gents for the more recent stages of the disease, he i nearly agrees with Dr. Vetch, as far as this point is concerned. But, Scarpa’s account of the dis- ease and its treatment is left imperfect by the omission of any notice of the connexion, fre- quently existing between opacity of the cornea, and a rough scabrous granulated state of the 1 lining of the eyelids. Yet, perhaps, Scarpa was not to be expected to treat of this combination in his chapter on nebula, because his defini- tion of this superficial opacity will not altogether I suit the affection of the same membrane, referred • to in the following observations. It is remarked by Dr. Vetch, that, after the complete cessation of conjunctival ophthalmia, as far as regards that ; portion of the membrane, which covers the eye, the villous elongation of the vessels of the lining i of the eyelids, instead of recovering their natural I > state, acquire a further increase of size, so as to ■ produce a rough, scabrous, or granulated surface, ij with a secretion of puriform matter. The irri- B t tation of this unequal surface gradually induces 9 an inflammatory state of the sclerotic vessels, Ij and, consequently, a greater flow of blood to- • wards the cornea: the superficial vessels become | varicose; the conjunctiva assumes a dusky and I loaded appearance; and the cornea becomes I opaque, not partially, but throughout the whole extent of its structure. This affection, says Dr. Vetch, is essentially different from those 1 nebulous, or partial opacities, which take place in v primary sclerotic inflammation, and which con- j fist in slight extravasations, accompanied by in- tolerance of light, and in which any affection of -he palpebral linings is a secondary, instead of i primary circumstance. The cornea is of the freen colour, presented by abroken gun-flint; and while it is sufficiently diaphanous to permit the Jerception ol light, it is yet too opaque to ullow ■ in patient to discern external objects, except by ' a"rsh.ades< Nor can l*ie colour of the iris, of the pupil be seen. Dr. Vetch also escribe* the conjunctiva as being sometimes so much relaxed, and its vessels so generally loaded, as to give it a dusky appearance similar to that of the cornea; and, in other instances, without much alteration of its thickness, or transparency, it is said to lose for a considerable extent its close attachment td the subjacent lamina of the cornea. Along with the opaque state of the cor- nea, there is more generally an enlargement of individual vessels, which penetrate almost to its centre, increase as they come outwards, and ter- minate in trunks, which run to the duplicature of the conjunctiva. Dr. Vetch represents this disease of the palpebrae as consisting at first in a highly villous state of their membranous lining. Tiiis state, if not rectified by proper treatment, gives birth to granulations, which, in time, become more deeply sulcated, hard, or warty, accom- panied by an oozing of purulent matter. Dr. Vetch has explained, that the use of the actual cautery, excision, and friction, for the purpose of curing the diseased state of the eyelids, may be traced back to Hippocrates, who prefers escha- rotics. Dr. Vetch ascribes their first employ- ment in these cases to St. Ives. Mr. Saunders, he observes, took an early and a just view of the relations, existing between the diseased conditions of the palpebral linings, and the opaque state of the cornea; and he succeeded in establishing the cure of the latter by the removal of the former. In short, Dr. Vetch admits, that, in the case, which more especially formed the claim of Mr. Saunders to the discovery of the nature of the disease, the practice of excision was attended with complete success. Dr. Vetch contends, however, that, this method is for the most part inadequate to the cure of the disease ; .and that there are very few cases, in which the more cer- tain and consistent process of gradually repress- ing the diseased surface by escharotic substances will not produce a more complete and permanent cure. After giving a fair trial to a great variety of eseliarotics, made into ointments, and applied to the inside of the upper eyelid, Dr. Vetch found the direct application of the escharotic sub- stances themselves was preferable. AVhen there is too much increased action in the vessels of the sclerotic coat, Dr. Vetch recommends the use of escharoties to be preceded by cupping the temples ; or, where there is any risk of a slough, the application of a leech to the inside of the lower eyelid. Whatever will bring on a deter- mination of blood to the head is to be avoided, and a low regimen observed. The escharoties, preferred by Dr. Vetch, are the sulphate of copper and nitrate of silver, scraped in the form of a pencil, and fixed in a portcrayon. In this \>ay, Dr. Vetch says, they should be ap- plied, not as some have conceived, with the view of producing a slough over the whole surface, but, with great delicacy, and in so many points only, as will produce a gradual change in the con- dition and disposition of the part. As long as there is any secretion of pus, the above application may be materially assisted by the daily use of the un- diluted liquor plumbi acetatis. AVhen the disease resists these remedies, and its surface is hard and warty, Dr. Vetch applies to the everted surface powder of verdigris, or burnt alum, finely levi- gated ; or even lightly touches the diseased sur- face with the kali purum. In employing these remedies, he enjoins confining their operation to