ABDOMEN. from an aneurism. The patient died suddenly (as Ballonius imagined) of a rupture of one of the vessels of the spleen. (jjallonii Epidemicorum et Ephenirridum, libri 2. Venetiis, 1734. Cun- silioium. Med. Lib. 1. p. 37f).) Dr. Albers has also described the particulars of a man’s case, recorded by Burggraf, and en- titled, “ Diuturna, magna, et valde molesta pulsatio in epigastrio.” (Fit/. Acta Natur. Cur. Niu'imh. 1740, Vul. (?, Ohs. 131). Burggraf gives his reasons for believing, that, in- this in- stance, the pulsation arose neither from the aorta nor from the coeliac artery; and suspects that it was caused by a dilatation of that considerable branch of the inferior mesenteric artery, which inosculates with the branch of the superior me- senteric. This idea, however, which was merely surmise, could not be correct, as the patient was cured by taking in the form of pills, every morn- ing and evening, half a dram of a mass com- posed of equal parts of Gum Ammoniac, extr. Centaur. Minor, and Venice soap. Then follows an example taken also from Burggraf. (Auserlesene Med. Falle und Gu- tuchien, FrankJ'. Am. M. 1784, S. 300.) A young man, after experiencing some complaints of the stomach, began to feel pain and tenderness about the scrobiculus cordis. At length a pulsation was detected just below the ensiform cartilage. It was not very considerable when the stomach was empty, but always increased after a meal. In the course of the disease, the patient had various symptoms of dyspepsia, and became so costive, that he had a motion only once in three • or four days. Various opinions were given by the physicians concerning the nature of the dis- ease, about which, however, Burggraf finally leaves the reader in the dark. Dr. Albers details the particulars of another case from the work last quoted. (p. 310.) The patient, a young woman, three and twenty years of age, whose menses had been obstructed five months, became affected with violent throbbings in the epigastric region, which were synchronous to the pulsations of the heart, and so forcible, that they seemed as if they proceeded from a displacement of the latter organ into the upper part of the abdomen. Dr. Massuet of Amster- dam considered the affection altogether as an effect of obstructed menstruation and hysterics, and, of course, prescribed medicines calculated to re-establish that evacuation. Some physicians ofLeipsie, however, who were probably quite mis- t-ken, looked upon the case as an aneurism either of the arteria gastrica, or gastro-epiploica, and ordered repeated venesection, aperients, and a bandage. In the valuable essay of Albertinus, on diseases of the heart, as a cause of difficult respiration, there is a passage where he is speaking of the diagnosis of enlargements of the heart, aneurism of the curvature of the aortae, &c., which Dr. Albers cites, as deserving attention in the pre- sent subject. “ Verurntamen extra pectus ubi deficiente solido arcu costarum, tantum difficul- tatis in hac indagine non ostenditur, me satis scio pluries indicavisse ex eo, quod vasis dia- metrum non auctum perceperim validas, assiduas- que arterire cceliacte, vel aortas in abdomine pul- sationes fuisse sine dilatktione, nec judicium meum eventus fefellit.” (De Bononiensi Scien- turruin et Artiurn Inslitu/n, ntque Acrulernia Cnm- ment. Bononitr, 1748, T. 1, p. 387.) An example follows from the writings of the celebrated Stork. After death, the symptoms were found to have arisen from disease of the pan- creas, which weighed thirteen pounds, and con- tained a large cyst filled with lamellated blood. (Aimus Medians, l'in dub. 17 GO, p. 245). The subsequent c.’se, somewhat analogous to the former, is from a different author. A man, aged GO, complained of pain in the left side of the abdomen, midway between the um- bilicus and crista of the ilium. Emaciation, weakness, distress of countenance, anorexia, con- stipation succeeded. At length, a large pulsa- ting tumour was discovered in the epigastric re- gion. The case was now pronounced aneurism of the abdominal aorta. There was no nausea, nor vomiting, except that some days before death, a quantity of fetid, blackish fluid was twice or thrice voided. No fever. The swelling caused a sense of constriction rather than pain, and the tlrtobbings became more perceptible. The pulse was feeble, but slow and regular. After death, the stomach was found adhering to the liver, pancreas, and abdomen; and a cancerous tumor occupying its internal surface from the duodenum to the insertion of the oesophagus, the coats of the stomach being an inch thick. The surface of the pancreas was also diseased, and the pylorus, situated in the midst of the cancerous mass, was contracted by the thickening of the parietes of the stomach, and obstructed by numerous fungi. The liver was large, but apparently sound; the spleen small. The aorta, the ccdiac trunk, and its brunches were quite natural. (See Jouxn. de Med. per Leroux, Oct. 1815, and Medico- Chir. Journ. Vol. I. p. 289). Morgagni describes the case of a woman, 44 years of age, who, after a suppression of the menses for some months, was attacked with pal- pitations in the epigastrium. Morgagni, on ap- plying his hand to the part, felt a large hard body moving forcibly. At first, it was regarded as an aneurism in the abdomen ; but, as there were no similar throbbings in the chest, and there was nothing extraordinary in the pulse at the wrists, Morgagni concluded, that the movements in ques- tion could not depend upon the heart. Neither did he take the disease for an aneurism, because the throbbings did not correspond to the pulse. As for the large indurated mass, it appeared to him more easy to say what it was not, than what it was: it could not be merely a u Gbits iu/stericus, which never beats like an aneurism. Morgagni considered the case as an hysterical spasmodic complaint, ordered the patient to be bled, and the following day the pulsations ceased. (Mor- gagni, deSedibus et Can sis Morborum, T. 2, Epist. 39. 18). Aaskow relates a case, in which, after the subsidence of a hard painful swelling under the upper false ribs of the right side, a peculiar throbbing movement presented itself in the same part. The phenomenon was imputed to the dia- phragm : “ et in loco dolente singulars motus palpitationis instar, evidenter enim conspiciebatur, quasi musculus diaphragmatis se constringendo partes vieinas comprimeret et extrorsum pre- truderet.” (Acta Societatis Medicer Iiavnicmis. Homin', 1777, Vol. 1, p. 208, <SV.)