HERNIA, 642 were requisite, the orifice of the sac should he dilated directly forwards. (On Crural Hernia, <S'C‘ If ) I1 or a further account of the ischiatic hernia, and references to the most interesting works on the subject, see First Lines of Sur- gery, Vol. 2, p. 84, $c. Phrenic Hernia.—The abdominal viscera are occasionally protruded through the diaphragm, either through some of the natural apertures in this muscle, or deficiencies, or wounds, and la- cerations in it. The second kind of case is the most frequent: Morgagni furnishes an instance of the first. Two cases, related by Dr. Macauley in Med. Ohs. and hup Vol. 1, two more de- tailed in the Medical Records and Researches, and two others published by Mr. A. Cooper, are instances of the second sort: and another case has been lately recorded by the latter gentle- man, affording an example of the third kind. A laceration of the diaphragm by fractured ribs, has produced a hernia. A case of this kind was dissected by Mr. Travers, at Guy’s Hospital. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 375.) In this last volume, may also be found the particulars of an interesting example, in which a considerable part of the large curvature of the stomach was protruded through a fissure of the diaphragm. The accident was unattended with any fracture of the ribs, and was caused by the upsetting of a stage-coach, on which the patient was an out- side passenger. Before death, he vomited up a large quantity of blood, and a small semicircular aperture was discovered on dissection in the lower part of the strangulated portion of the stomach. (P. 378, 379.) See also B. Ste- helin, Tentamcn Med. quod ventriculum, qui in thoracem migraverat, <fc. describit, 1721; (in Hallerii Disp. An at. 6, 675.) Hildanus, Pare, Petit, Schenck, &c. also mention cases of phrenic hernia. The disease is quite out of the reach of art. Mesenteric Hernia.—If one of the layers of the mesentery be torn by a blow, while the other remains in its natural state, the intes- tines may insinuate themselves into the aper- ture, and form a kind of hernia. The same con- sequence may result from a natural deficiency in one of these layers. Mr. A. Cooper records a case, in which all the small intestines, except the duodenum, were thus circumstanced. The symptoms during life were unknown. (On Cru- ral Hernia, <ffrc. p. 82.) Mesocolic Hernia.—So named by Mr. A. Cooper, when the bowels glide between the layers of the mesocolon. A specimen of this disease is preserved at St. Thomas’s hospital. Every surgeon should be aware, that the in- testines may be strangulated within the abdomen from the following causes: 1. Apertures in the omentum, mesentery, or mesocolon, through which the intestine protrudes. 2. Adhesions, leaving an aperture, in which a piece of intestine becomes confined. 3. Membranous bands at the mouths of hernial sacs, which becoming elongated, by the frequent protrusion and return of the viscera, surround the intestine, so as to strangulate them within the abdomen, when re- turned from the sac. (See A. Cooper on Crural Hernia, p. 85.) Pott remarks, that “ Ruysch gives an account of an impregnated uterus being found on the outside of the abdominal opening; and so do Hildanus and Sennertus. Ruysch also gives an account of an entire spleen having passed the tendon ol the oblique muscle. Arid I have my- self seen the ovaria removed by incision, after ; they had been some months in the groin.”; ( Vol. 2.) More particulars respecting all theji less frequent kinds of hernia are given in the] second volume of the First Lines of Surgery\ Franco, Traitc des Hernics, fyc. 8m, Lyon,I 1561; Lud. von Hammen, De Herniis, 12mo., \ Lugd. 1581. Malach-Geiger, Kclegraphuif sive Dcscriptio Hcrniarum, cum carnnden\ curationibus, tarn, Medicis, quam Cliirurgicisl 12mo., Monachii, 1631. Ant. Lc Quin, Lt4 Chirurgien Herniaire, 12mo., Paris, 1 G97J| Littre, Observation snr unc NouveUe EsqectAI de Ilcrnic, Mem. de l'Acad, des Sciences M 1700. Mery, in the same work; 1701- Littre, sur une Hemic Rare; same work A 1714. Mauchart de Hernia incarcerate novaL\ encheiresi extricat a, Tubing. 1722. Heist crm Instit. Chirurg. et De ilernict Incurcerat Suppurata non semper lethali. Vogel, Ab- handlung allcr Arten der Bruche; Leipzl 1738. Peyronie, Observations, Sfc. sur la Cure des Hernics avec Gangrene; Mem, de VAcad, de Chir. T. 1. Gunz, Obscrvationum Anatomico-chirurgicarum de Herniis libellus i Lips. 1744; et Prolusio Invitatoria in qua d< Entero-Epiplocele agebat, Lips. 1746. P Kirkschbaum, De Her nib Ventriculi, Argent 1749. P. S. Kok, De Herniis; Rotcrod. 17821 Arnaud on Hernias, 1748; also his Mem. d* Chir. Haller de Herniis Congcnitis, 1749. Ga- rengeot, sur plusieurs Hernics singulieres j Mem. de VAcad, de Chir. tom. 2. Moreau sus les suites (Tune Hemic opdrtc; Mem. d«\ TAcad, de Chir. t. 3. Bcncvoli, una Erni assai particolare; Firenzo, 1750. G. L Troschcl, De Morbis ex Alieno Situ Partiui, Abdominis, Francof. 1754: (Haller, Disp. a Morb. 4, 143.) Haller Hcrniarum ad not Hones ; extant, in opuscul. pathol. 1755. Blau NouveUe Methode d’operer les Hernics ; a un Essai sur les Hernics, par M. Hoin ; O/ leans, 1767 ; 8vo. Louis, Reflexions snr V Ope- ration de la Hemic; Mem. de VAcad, de Chin Tom. 4. Hoin, Essai sur les Hernics rarcs peu connues; 1767. Medical Observationi and Enquiries. Pott's Works, vols. 2 and ,‘5 Goursaud sur la Difference des Causes de I'd tranglement des Hernics; Mem. dc VAcad, d Chir. Tom. 4. Lc Dran, Trait e des Op&nt tions de Chir. et Observations dc Chir. obs. 57 F. Hildanus, cent. 5. obs. 54. J. L. PctU Traite des Mai. Chir. Tom. 2. Sharp on th Operations, and his Critical Enquiry. Be, trandi, Traitc des Operations; et Exempt (Pune Ilcrnic formic, du cote droit par Pit. testin ileum settlement, dent unc portion s'etc echappcc par unc des echancrures ischiatique. en seglissant sur les ligaments sacro-sciatique. Mem. dc Chir. Tom. 2. Saltzmann, Disp. Vcsiccc Urinaria Hernia; 1712. Mery si des Dc.sccntes dc la Vcssic; Acad, des Science 1713. •/• L. Petit sur les Hernics dcla Vcssitf Acad, des Sciences, 1717. Vcrdier, Rcchcrch sur la Hemic dc la Vcssic; Mem. de l'Aca< dc Chir. Tom. 2. Divoux, Disp. de linn Vesica Urinaria; Argent. 1732. Levrct, Oh