TREPHINE. urpose. Its use is to fix the trephine, when it ; first applied, that is, before the teeth of the lstrument have made a sufficient circular groove, i which they can steadily work. When this is been accomplished, the centre-pin must al- ,iys be removed; because now it is not only jt needed, but, if left, it would retard the pro- ess of the operation, and inevitably wound the ira mater and brain, when the teeth of the saw d cut to a certain depth through the cranium, y trephines have their centre-pins contrived to de up, or down, and to be fixed in either posi- m by turning a little screw. This method |erns to me both ingenious and convenient. The cylindrical part of the trephine is often •med the crown of the instrument. The sur- on should have at least two, or three eylindri- t saws of various sizes; for, it is always a ! \ unmendable rule, never to saw away any more the cranium, than is absolutely requisite for ; accomplishment of some rational object, sere is no occasion, however, for having any ore than one handle, which may be made to ew on any of the saws. Trephines are also occasionally applied to ler bones, besides those of the cranium. In : articles Antrum, Caries, Exostosis, Frac- es of the Sternum, Necrosis, Spina Ventosa, •er cases are mentioned, in which the em- ■ yment of these instruments sometimes be- nes proper. i It is not always desirable to remove a com- ‘ te circular portion of the cranium, the taking ; ly a piece of smaller size, and of a different if pe, being frequently much more advan- eous. Some surgeons, I understand, who . act to removing any unnecessary quantity of cranium, have been in the habit of employing ■■ephine, terminating only in a semi-circular, tead of a. circular saw, by which means, they i often cut across the base of a depressed por- a of the skull, and take it away, without any asion for removing also a circular piece of ■ e. An instrument of the latter kind may tainly be sometimes useful. The saws, however, which Mr. Hey has de- ibed, should constantly be kept in every case rephining instruments. This practical writer iarks, that “ the purposes, for which any por- t of the cranium is removed, are, to enable I surgeon to extract broken fragments of bone, elevate what is depressed, and to afford a per issue to blood or matter that is, or may confined, &c. • When a broken fragment of bone is driven sath tbe sound contiguous part of the crani- it frequently happens, that the extraction ■ not be executed without removing some of the 'token part, under which the fragment is de- *sed. This might generally be effected with i little loss of sound bone, if a narrow por- i of that, which lies over the broken fragment, Id be removed. But such a portion cannot emoved with the trephine. This instrument only saw out a circular piece. And as, in cuting this, the central pin of the saw must 'laced upon the uninjured bone, it is evident, - a portion of the sound bone, greater than the area of the trephine, must be removed :v'ery operation. When the broken and de- pressed fragment is large, a repeated application of the trephine is often necessary, and a great destruction of sound bone must be the conse- quence. “ When the injury consists merely of a fissure with depression, a small enlargement of the fis- sure would enable the surgeon to introduce the point of the elevator, so as to raise the depressed bone. But a small enlargement of the fissure cannot be made with the trephine. When it is necessary to apply the elevator to different parts of the depressed bone, a great deal of the sound cranium must be removed, where a very narrow aperture would have been sufficient. “ The same reasoning will apply to the case of openings, made for the purpose of giving a discharge to extravasated blood, or matter. “ If a saw could be contrived, which might be worked with safety in a straight, or gently cur- vilineal direction, it would be a great acquisition to the practical surgeon. Such a saw I can now with confidence recommend, after a trial of twenty years, during which time, I have rarely used the trephine in fractures of the skull. Its use has been adopted by my colleagues at the General Infirmary in Leeds; and will be adopt- ed, I hope, by every surgeon, who has once made trial of it.” Mr. Hey next informs us, that the instrument was first shewn to him by Dr. Cockell, of Pontefract; but that there is a saw, formed on the same principle, in Scultetus’s Armamentarium Chirurgicum. The saws al- luded to are very short ones, fixed at the end of a longish straight handle; their edges are made either straight, or semicircular. The latter con- struction qualifies the instrument for cutting in a curvilineal direction, which is often proper. The edge of the saw should always be made a little thicker than the rest of the blade, by which means it will work in the groove, which is cut, with more facility. Saws, made on the principle just described, are also of infinite use in cutting away diseased portions of other bones, besides the skull, exos- toses, &c. In cases of necrosis, when a dead part of a bone is quite wedged in the substance of the surrounding new bony matter, Mr. Hey’s saws may often be advantageously employed for cutting away the parts, which mechanically pre- vent the detachment of the dead pieces. The saws, invented by Mr. Machell and Professor Graefe, are also highly ingenious, and particu- larly merit attention, when there is very little room for the working of the instrument, and the bone to be cut lies rather deep. They are wheel- like saws, turned by machinery. Besides trephines of various sizes, and the saws just now noticed, the surgeon should also take care to have in his case of trephining in- struments a little brush for occasionally cleans- ing away the particles of bone from the teeth of the saw, in the progress of the operation; a pair of forceps for extracting the round piece of bone after it has been detached by the saw; a lenticular for removing any in- equalities, which may present themselves, round the sawn edge of the cranium, after the circular piece is taken out; a raspatory for the same purpose, and, also, for Scraping the bone in order to see whether it will bleed, which is a circum- 13 X %