AORTA. external wound. Neither the omentum nor the intestines protruded; and, during the progress of the operation, only one small convolution projected beyond the wound.” With his finger- nail he scratched through the peritoneum, on the left side of the aorta, and then gently moving his finger from side to side, he gradually passed it between the aorta and spine, and again penetrated the peritoneum on the right side of the aorta. A blunt aneurismal-needlc, armed with a single ligature, was next conveyed under that vessel, and tied, with the precaution of excluding the intestines from the noose. The wound was then closed, by means of the quilled suture and adhe- sive plaster. During the operation, the feces were discharged involuntarily, and the pulse both im- mediately, and for an hour after the operation, was 144. An opiate was given, and the involuntary passage of feces soon ceased. The sensibility of the right leg was very imperfect. In the night, the patient complained of heat in the abdomen; but he felt no pain upon pressure; and the lower extremities, which had been cold a little while after the operation, were regaining their heat, but their sensibility was very indistinct. ^ At six o’clock the following morning, the sensibility of the limbs was still imperfect; but at eight o’clock the right one was warmer than the left, and its sensibility returning. At noon, the temperature of the right limb was ninety-four; that of the left, or aneurismal one, eighty-seven and a half. At three o’clock, an enema was ordered. The heat of the right leg was now ninety-six ; that of the left, or diseased limb, eighty-seven and a half. It is unnecessary, here, to detail all the various circumstances which preceded the pa- tient's death. Vomiting, pain in the abdomen and loins, involuntary discharge of urine and feces ; a weak pulse, cold sweats, &c. were some of the most remarkable symptoms. At eight o’clock on the second morning after the opera- tion, the aneurismal limb appeared livid and cold, more particularly round the aneurism ; but the right leg was warm ; and between one and two o’clock, the same day, the patient died. On opening the abdomen, there was not the least appearance of peritoneal inflammation, except at the edges of the wound ; and the omentum and intestines were of their natural colour. The ligature, which included no portion of intestine e-r omentum, was placed round the aorta, about three quarters of an inch above its bifurcation. When the vessel was opened, a clot, of more than an inch in extent, filled it above the liga- ture ; and below the bifurcation, another clot, an inch in extent, occupied the right iliac artery, while the left contained a third, which extended as far as the aneurism. The neck of the thigh- bone was also found broken within the capsular ligament, and not united; an accidental com- plication. As there were no appearances of in- flammation of the viscera, Mr. A. Cooper refers the cause of the man’s death to the want of cir- culation in the aneurismal limb, which never recovered its natural heat, nor any degree of sensibility, though the right leg was not pre- vented from doing so: hence, says this ex- perienced surgeon, “ in an aneurism similarly situated, the ligature must be applied before the swelling has acquired any very considerable mag- nitude.” (Surgical Essay:, vol. l.p. 114, <3jc.) Indeed, the most important conclusions from this case are—First, that, where no other im- pediments exist, the circulation will continue in the lower extremities, though the abdominal aorta be tied, or suddenly obstructed. Secondly, that suffering aneurismal swellings to become very large, before the operation is done, exposes the patient to considerable disadvantage, on account of the pressure of the disease upon the sur- rounding anastomoses, whereby the continuance of the circulation is rendered less certain than it would be, were the operation done at an earlier period. RUPTURE OF THE AORTA WITHIN THE PERI- CARDIUM. The surgical writings of Scarpa, in relation to the formation of aneurisms, have now gained ex- tensive celebrity in the world. It is well known, that this author maintains the doctrine, that, in all aneurisms, the internal and muscular coats of the artery are ruptured, and that the aneurismal sac is not formed of these tunics, but of the dila- ted cellular sheath, which surrounds the vessel. When a large aneurism bursts, there is always a double rupture ; one of the artery ; another of the aneurismal sac. The last is that, which is the immediate cause of the patient’s destruction, by altering the circumscribed state of the aneurism into the diffused. There are some exceptions, however, to the foregoing statement, and Scarpa has not failed to point them out. When the internal and muscu- lar coats of the aorta are ruptured in a situation, where the outside of the vessel is only covered by a thin, tense, closely adherent membrane, such membrane may be ruptured at the same time with the proper coats of the artery, and sudden death be occasioned by the effusion of blood in the cavity of the thorax. These events are liable to happen, whenever the proper coats of the aorta are ruptured, within the pericardium, where the vessel is only covered by a thin layer reflected from this membranous bag. Wal- ter has recorded one example of this kind, and Morgagni several others. A similar case is re- lated by Scarpa. (See Haller Disput. Chir. Tom. 5. Acta Medic. Berlin. Vol. 8, p- 8<>. Mor- gagni de Sed. et Causis Morb. Epist. 56, art. 7. 17. 21. Epist. 27, Art. 28. Scarpa on Aneu- rism, iransl. by Wishart, p. 81. Also Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins.) STEATOMATOUS TUMORS OF THE AORTA. Two steatomatous tumors were noticed by Stenzel in the body of a male subject. They were situatod in the substance of the membranes of the aorta, immediately below its arch. Not- withstanding these swellings rendered the vessel almost impervious, the man had the appearance of strength, and of having being well nourished. Iitec corpora fere cor magnitudine erquubant ut omnem propemodum exeunti e sinistri cordis the- lamo sanguini spatium pree cinder ait. De Stea- tomatibus in principio artcrire aortas, &c. Wit- temb. 1723. This is another striking fact, illustrating the great power of the inosculations to carry on the circulation.