FRACTURES. 453 this is almost always the ease with the fractured patella. The olecranon and os calcis have likewise been broken by a violent contraction of the mus- cles inserted into them. With respect to the heel, Petit records two instances, one of which was communicated to him by Poncelet, and the other seen by himself in Madame La Presidente de Boissire, who met with the accident in walk- ing a gentle pace in the court of the Hotel de Soubise. When the injury happens in leaping, or falls from a high situation, Leveille thinks it more probable, that a portion of the os calcis is torn off by the powerful action of the muscles of the calf, than that it is broken by any blow im- mediately on the part. He states, that Desault used frequently to cite two examples of this kind, one of which is recorded in his (Euvres Chirur- gicales. Whether the long bones can be fractured Ly the mere action of the muscles, is yet an unset- tled point. In the Philosophical Transactions, a fracture of the humerus is ascribed to this cause, and Botentuit saw the same accident produced by striking a shuttle-cock with a battledore. Ac- cording to Debeaumarchef, as a man was de- scending a ladder at a quick rate, his heel got entangled in an opening, and he made a violent exertion to avoid falling. The consequence was a fracture of the lower third of the leg. Caret informs us, that a cabin-boy, aged seventeen, made a considerable effort to keep himself from being thrown down by the rolling of the ship, as he was making water. The femur was fractured by the powerful action of the muscles of the thigh. The lad had no fall, and, with some dif- ficulty, supported himself on the other limb, till he received assistance. We are told, says Leveille, bv Poupee Des- portes, that a negro, about twelve or thirteen years old, was seized with such violent spas- modic contractions of the muscles of the lower extremities, that the feet were turned backward, and the neck of each thigh bone was fractured, the ends of the broken bones also protruding through the skin upon the outside of the thigh. A cure was effected, after an exfoliation. We read also, in the Melanges des Curieux dela Nature, that, during a fit of epilepsy, a child, ten years old, had its left humerus and tibia broken, and, that upon opening the body, other solutions of continuity were observed. Doctor Chamseru recollects having assisted, at his father’s house, in dressing a child, eleven or twelve years old, that had broken the humerus in throwing a stone a considerable distance. (Leveille, Nuavel/e Doctrine C'lir. T. 2, p. 164, 16'6.) Ilicherand, however, positively denies, that a long bone, when healthy, can ever be broken by the mere contraction of the muscles. (iVojogr. Cnir. T. 3, /». 12, Edit. 4 ) For my own part, making all due allowance for the inaccuracy of some of the reports made by writers, I think the possibility of the long bones being broken by the violent action of the muscles is sufficiently proved. I have never seen but one example of the occurrence; but, it was a very unequivocal one. I once attended for the late Mr. Ramsden, an exceedingly strong man, at Pentonville, who broke his osbracliii in making a powerful blow, although lie missed his aim and struck nothing at all. The whole limb was afterwards affected with vast swelling and inflammation. This man, 1 remember, was also visited by Mr. Welbank, of Chancery-lane. According to Nicod, the greater number of frac- tures of long bones, by mere muscular action, are preceded by pains in the broken limbs, and, in one of the cases, published by this author, not only was this circumstance remarked, but an abscess and exfoliation of a portion of the frac- tured humerus ensued. In another instance, reported by this gentleman, the clavicle, in a state of preternatural fragility from disease, was fractured in an effort to carry the arm far behind the back.^ After the re-union of the fracture, an abscess took place, and a piece of the bone ex- foliated. (Annunire Med. Chir. ties ILqntaux de Paris, p. 491—98, die. 4to. Paris, 1819.) 3. Symptoms of Fractures. Some of the symptoms of fractures are equi- vocal. The pain, and inability to move the limb, commonly enumerated, may arise from a mere bruise, a dislocation, or other cause. The cre- pitus ; the separation and inequalities of the ends of the fracture, when the bone is superficial; the change in the form of the limb ; and the shortening of it; are circumstances, communi-, eating the most certain information ; and the crepitus, in particular, is the principal symptom to be depended upon. The signs of fractures, however, are so exceedingly various, according to the bones, which are the subject of injury, that, it cannot be said, that there is any one, which is invariably attendant on such cases, and characteristically confined to them. The writers of systems of surgery usually notice loss of mo- tion in the injured limb, deformity, swelling, tension, pain, &c. as forming the general dia- gnosis of fractures. However, it is easily com- prehensible by any one, acquainted with anatomy, that numerous fractures cannot prevent the mo- tion of the part, nor occasion outward deformity; and every surgeon must know, that, though, at first, there may be pain in the situation of a frac- ture, no swelling and tension take place till after a certain period. When, therefore, a limb is broken, and the event is not manifest from the distortion of the part, it is proper to trace, with the fingers, the outlines of the suspected bone: if it be the tibia, let the surgeon examine with his fingers, whe- ther any inequality can be discovered along the anterior surface, and along the sharp front edge of that bone. If it be the clavicle, let him trace the superficial course of the bone, in the same attentive manner. Wherever any unusual pain occurs, or an)r unnatural irregularity appears, let him try, if a grating, or crepitus, cannot be felt, on endeavouring to make one end of the suspected fracture rub against the other. When the humerus, or the os femoris, is the subject ot enquiry, a crepitus is felt almost as soon as the limb is touched, and, in the case of the broken thigh, there is a considerable shortening ot the extremity, except in a few cases ot fractures; completely transverse. But, when there are two bones, as in the leg and the forearm, and only one is broken, the other continues to prevent the limb from being shortened, and thrown out of