501 FRACTURES. inability to*perform the motion of pronation and supination j and an almost constant halt-bent state of the fore-arm. There is one case, however, in which, the fracture being very near the wrist joint, similar appearances to those of a dislocation of this part mav arise. But, attention to whether the styloid processes, are above, or below, the deformity, will discover whether the case be a fracture, or dis- location. In a fracture, the part is also more move- able, and there is a crepitus. ((Enures Chir. tie Desault, pur Birluit, T. 1.) According to Boyer, the two cases may be distinguished by simply moving the hand, by which motion, if there be a luxation without fracture, the styloid processes of the radius and ulna, will not change their situation; but, if a fracture exist, they will fol- low the motion of the hand. The connexion of the two bones of the fore- arm, by the interosseous ligament, which occupies the interspace by which they are separated, and the manner, in which the muscles at- tached to both, are inserted into them, render any displacement of the broken pieces in the longitudinal direction very difficult; and in reality, such displacement is seldom observed, and never iii any considerable degree. When it does take place, it is to be ascribed to the cause of the fracture, rather than to muscular con- traction. On the contrary, in the transverse dis- placement, the four pieces approach one another, and the interosseous space, is diminished or en- tirely obliterated near the seat of the fracture; attended with evident deformity of the part. There is an angular displacement, which the fracturing cause always produces, either forward or backward, according to its direction. Boyer gives the following account of the treatment of the fracture of both bones of the fore-arm. The fore-arm is to be bent to a right angle with the arm, and the hand placed in a position be- tween pronation and supination. The fore-arm and hand being thus placed, an assistant takes hold of the four lingers of the patient, and ex- tends the fractured parts, while another assistant makes counter-extension by fixing the humerus with both his hands. By these means, the operator is enabled to restore the bones to their natural situation, and to push the soft parts into the in- terosseous space, by a gentle and graduated pressure on the anterior and posterior sides of the arm. The bones are kept in their place by applying first on the anterior and posterior sides of the fore-arm two longitudinal and graduated com- presses, the base of which is to be in contact with the arm. The depth of these compresses should be proportioned to the thickness of the arm, increasing as the diameter of the arm di- minishes. In the next place, the surgeon takes a single headed roller about six yards long, and makes three turns of it on the fractured part; he then descends to the hand by circles partially placed over one another, and envelopes the hand by passing the bandage between the thumb and index finger: the bandage is next carried upward in the same manner, and reflected wherever the mequality of the arm may render it necessary. ic compresses and bandage being thus far ap- plied, the surgeon lays ori two splints, one an- teriorly, the other posteriorly, and applies the remainder of the bandage over them. The com- presses and splints should be of the same length as the fore-*arm. It would be useless to employ lateral splints in this case, unless (what is scarcely ever to be expected or met with) a displacement should have taken place in that direction. Lateral splints would counteract the compresses and two other splints, by lessening the radio-cubital dia- meter of the arm, and with the action of the pro- nators tend to push the ends of the fracture into the interosseous space. The surgeon’s attention should be particularly directed to preserve the in- terosseous space; for, if this be obliterated, the radius cannot rotate on the cubitus, nor the mo- tion of pronation or supination be executed ; and this object maybe obtained with certainty by ap- plying the compresses and splints in such a man- ner, that the fleshy parts may be forced into, and confined in the interosseous space, and by renew- ing the bandage every seven or eight days. If the fracture be simple, and the contusion inconsiderable, the patient need not be confined to bed; but may walk about with his arm in a sling. FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS Are the most frequent of those of the fore- arm. The radius being almost the sole support of the hand, and placed in the same line with the humerus, is for both these reasons more exposed to fractures, than the ulna. Fractures of the radius, whether transverse or oblique, near its middle part or extremities, may be caused by a fall or blow on the fore-arm, or, as happens in most cases, by a fall on the palm of the hand. When likely to fall, we extend our arms, and let the hands come first to the ground; in which case, the radius, pressed between the hand on the ground, and the humerus, from which it receives the ivhole momentum of the body, is bent, and, if the fall be sufficiently violent, broken more or less near its middle part. When, after an accident of this kind, pain, and difficulty of performing the motions of pro- nation and supination, supervene, the probability of a fracture of the radius is very strong. The truth is fully ascertained by pressing with the fingers along the external side of the fore-arm. Also, in endeavouring to perform supination or pronation of the hand, a crepitus and a motion of the broken portions will be perceived. When the fracture takes place near the head of the radius, the diagnosis is more difficult, on account of the depth of soft parts over that part,£f the bone. In this case, the thumb is to be placed under the external condyle of the os humeri, and on the superior extremity of the radius, and at the same time the hand is to be brought into the prone and supine positions. If, in these trials, which are always painful, the head of the radius rests motionless, there can be no doubt of the bone being fractured. Here the causes of displace- ment are the same as in fractures of the tore- arm ; it can never take place, except in the di- rection of the diameter of the bone, and is effected principally by the action of the pronating muscles. The ulna serves as a splint in fractures ol the