9K> PARACENTESIS. to make the purteture practicable without danger. Desauit used to tap dropsical patients once a week, and, in many cases, after he had performed the operation two or three times, the disease was stopped. I he great number of times that the operation has been repeated in some individuals is surpris- ing ; for instance, twenty-nine times (Schmuekcr, Wahrnchvmngen, 2 B. p. 102.); forty-one times {Med. Communications, Vol. 2.); fifty- two times {Schmucker, Vol.cit. p. 187.); sixty- five times {Mead); one hundred times {Callisen, Syst. Chir. Hodiernce, Vol. 2, p. 55.); one hundred and fifty-five times {Phil. Trans. Vol. 69.) ; and if it be possible to credit Bezard, even six hundred and sixty-five times upon one woman in the course of thirteen years. When the patient died, the peritoneum was found to be three lines in thickness. The omentum, mesentery, and even the liver, gall-bladder, spleen, pancreas, kidneys, and bladder, had almost disappeared, a scirrhous mass contain- ing pus occupying their place towards the right side. (See Bulletin de la Socidte Modi calc d1Emulation, No. 12, Dec. 1815.) Whenever a considerable quantity of fluid is suddenly let out of the abdomen by tapping, the quick removal of the pressure of the water off the large blood vessels, and viscera, may produce swooning, convulsions, and even sudden death. These consequences led the ancients to consider paracentesis as a very dangerous operation, and, when they ventured to perform it, they only let out the water gradually, and at intervals. Dr. Mead, after considering what might oc- casion the bad symptoms resulting from too sudden an evacuation of a large quantity of fluid from the abdomen, was led to try what effect ex- ternal pressure would have in preventing such consequences. This practitioner'' thought, that, in this way, he might keep up the same degree of pressure, which the fluid made on the viscera. The success, attending some trials of this plan, fully justified the opinion Dr. Mead had con- ceived; for when the compression is carefully made, the whole of the water, contained in the abdomen of a dropsical patient, may be safely discharged, as quickly as the surgeon chooses. For this purpose, however, the whole abdomen must be equally compressed, the pressure in- creased in proportion as the evacuation takes place, and kept up in the same degree, for se- veral days .afterwards. In St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, while the water is flowing out, the necessary degree of pressure is usually made with a sheet which is put round the abdomen. Two assistants, who hold the ends of the sheet, gradual!}' tighten it, in proportion, as the fluid is discharged. Immediately, after the operation, some folded flannel, sprinkled with spirit of wine, is laid over the whole anterior part of the belly, and covered with a broad linen roller, applied with due tightness round the body. Dr. Monro invented a particular kind of belt, for the pur- pose ; but, though it may be well adapted to the object in view, it is, perhaps, unnecessary, as the cibove method seems to answer eveiy end. The instrument used for tapping the abdomen, is called a trocar. (See Trocar.) Of this instrument there are several varieties; geons, give a decided preference to the common trocar. Most of the modern alterations, which have been made in the construction of trocars, have only tended, says Ilichter, to render the employment of these instruments more difficult. There is no reason for the ordinary objection, that the common trocar cannot be introduced without considerable force. If the part, into which it is about to be passed, be made tense; very little force will be necessary, especially, if care be taken to rotate the instrument gently, as well as push it forward. Hence, all the inven- tions, which have originated from this supposed imperfection, are represented by Richter to be entirely useless. He condemns the trocar with a double-edged point, as a bad instrument. The proposal of Mr. Cline to make a puncture with a lancet first, and then to introduce into the opening a blunt-pointed trocar, is alleged to be superfluous. Nay—these innovations are declared to be worse than useless. A cutting instrument is liable to injure blood vessels, and bring on a weakening degree of hemorrhage; and it is said, that the wound thus made does not heal so readily, as that made with a common trocar. That sharp-edged instruments are at- tended with the inconvenience of being apt to wound enlarged veins, and produce an unpleasant degree of hemorrhage, is a truth, of which I have myself met with a convincing example. A female, who had a strong aversion to being tapped with a trocar, prevailed upon me to make the opening with a lancet. The puncture was made in the linea alba, about three inches below the navel. A stream of dark-coloured venous blood con- tinued to run from the wound, the whole time the water was flowing out of the cannula, and did not cease until a compress was applied. The quantity of blood lost could not be less than a pint, or a pint and a half. In many cases, the loss of so much blood would prove fatal to dropsical patients, and is what one must always feel anxious to avoid. The most convenient position for the opera- tion, is certainly when the patient is sitting in an arm-chair. However, weakness and other circumstances frequently make it necessary to operate on the patient, as he lies in bed. Until of late, the place, in which surgeons used to puncture the abdomen, in cases of ascites, was the centre,of a line, drawn from the navel to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and, on the left side, which was preferred, in consequence of the liver not being there. The place, for the puncture, was usually marked with ink, and was supposed to be always situated just over a part of the linea semilunaris, where there is no fleshy substance, nor any' large blood vessel, exposed to injury. This calculation, however, was made, without considering/that, in dropsy, the parietes of the abdomen do not yield equally in eveiy situation. On the contrary, it is known, that the front is always more distended, than the lateral parts, and that the recti muscles, in par- ticular, are sometimes very much widened. In consequence of these alterations, induced by the disease, no dependence can be put on any mea- surement, made with the view of ascertaining the precise situation of the linea semilunaris, The sureoon, who trusts to his being able to intro- . 53 .1 il •_ .-I f. OllV li M Si