WOUNDS. 1214 spect to ulceration of the intestines from other causes, circumstances may be very different. And it is but justice to state, that Mr. Travers’s opi- nions have received some confirmation from an interesting ease, published by Dr. J. Crampton, of Dublin. It is an instance of rupture of the stomach, and fatal effusion of its contents into the cavity of the abdomen. The patient was a young lady, aged 2‘). She was suddenly taken ill with spasm in her stomach, and other severe symptoms, and died in about twelve hours. “ On opening the abdomen, the stomach was ob- served to be pale, flaccid, and empty. Its con- tents, amongst which were recognized oatmeal and castor oil, had escaped into the cavity of the abdomen, through a round aperture situated on its anterior surface, at the union of the cardiac and pyloric portions. This perforation of the stomach was perfectly circular, about the size of a pea, and appeared to be the result of an ulcer on the mucous surface, which had gradually penetrated the other coats. This ulcer was hol- low and circular, nearly the size of a shilling, and had the appearance, as if it had been made with caustic, with the orifice in its centre.’' (J. Crampton, Med. Clivr. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 280.) To the preceding, Mr. Travers has an- nexed some addilional facts: one is an example of a rapidly fatal effusion of the intestinal con- tents, through ari ulcerated opening about a fin- ger’s breadth below the pylorus. The foramen had a peritoneal margin, and proved to be the centre of an irregular superficial ulcer of the mucous coat. Another case is that of a similar ulceration of the small intestines, and fatal ex- travasation of their contents. In another ex- ample, a circular aperture of the peritoneum, large enough to admit a crow’s quill, was found after death at the junction of the duodenum and stomach. It also was the centre of an ulcer, that had destroyed the villous and muscular coats of the bowel to the extent of half an inch. For many o‘her ingenious observations, I mpst refer tbe reader to Mr. Travers’s paper, who concludes with remarking, that the chief diag- nostic symptoms of these hopeless cases appear to be : 1. Sudden, most acute, and unremitting pain, radiating from the scrobieulus cordis, or the navel, to the circumference of the trunk, and even to the limbs. A peculiar pain, the in- tensity of which, like that of parturition, absorbs the whole mind of the patient, who, within an hour from the enjoyment of perfect health, ex- presses his serious arid decided conviction, that if the pain be not speedily alleviated, be must die. Coeval with the attack of pain, remarkable rigidity and hardness of the belly, from a fixed and spastic contraction of the abdominal mus- cles. A natural pulse for some hours, until the symptoms are merged in those of acute peri- tonitis and its fatal termination in the adhesive stage. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 231, ci seqd Blood is more frequently extravasated in the abdomen, than any other fluid, but, it does not •lUunvK take nlacp. unless the wounded vessels be ami their action on each other, oppose this effect. The action alluded to, which depends on the ab- dominal muscles and diaphragm, is rendered very manifest by what happens, in consequence of operations for herniae, attended with altera- tion of the intestines, or omentum. If these viscera burst, or suppurate, after being reduced, the matter which escapes from them, or the pus, which they secrete, is not lost in the ab- domen ; but is propelled towards the wound in the skin, and there makes its exit. The intes- tinal matter, effused from a mortified bowel, has been known to remain lodged the whole interval, between one time of dressing the wound and an- other, in consequence of the surgeon stopping up the external wound with a large tent. When the above-mentioned action or pressure of the muscles, is not sufficient to keep the blood from making its escape from the vessels, still it may hinder it from becoming diffused among the con- volutions of the viscera, and thus the extravasa- tion is confined in one mass. ,The blood, effused and accumulated in this way, is commonly lodged at the inferior and anterior part of the abdomen, above the lateral part of the pubes, and by the side of one of the recti muscles. The weight of the blood may propel it into this situation, or perhaps, there may be less resistance in this di- rection, than in others. In opening- the bodies of persons, who have died with such extravasa- tions, things may put on a different aspect, and the blood seem to be promiscuously extravasated over every part of the abdomen. But, when such bodies are examined with care, it will be found, that the blood does not insinuate itself among the viscera, till the moment when the ab- domen is opened, and the mass previously lies in a kind of pouch This pouch is frequentlv cir- cumscribed, and bounded by thick membranes, especially when the extravasation has been of some standing, i Sa'xitlcr Mcdecinc Optra- toirc, T. 1, p. 28—80.) Every practical surgeon should remember well, that all the abdominal viscera closely touch either each other, or the inner surface of the perito- neum. This is one grand reason, why extravasa- tions are seldom extensively diffused; but, com monly lie in one mass, as Petit, Sabatier, and all the best moderns have noticed. The pressure of the elastic bowels, diaphragm, and abdominal muscles, not only frequently presents an obstacle to the diffusion of extravasated matter, but often serves to propel it towards the mouth of the wound. The records of surgery furnish nume- rous instances, in which persons have been stab- bed through the body, without fatal consequences, and sometimes without the symptoms being even severe. In Mr. Travers’s publication many cases, exemplifying this observation, are quoted from a variety of sources : Fab. Hildan. Obs. Chirurg. Cent. 5. Obs. 74. CEuvres de Pare, liv. 10. Chap. 85. Wiseman’s Surgery, p. 871. La Motte’s Traite Complet de C.hirurgie; &c. &c. In such cases, the bowels have been supposed to have eluded the point of the weapon, and, perhaps, in a few instances, this may actually have been the fact; but, in the generality of such examples, the bowels must have been punctured, and the extra- vasation of intestinal matter prevented by the