211 BANDAGE. ami particular. Tiie latter often derive their names from the parts, to which they are usually applied. A simple bandage is a long piece of linen or cotton, of an indefinite length, and from three to six inches in breadth. When about to be applied, it is commonly rolled up, and the rolled part is termed its Iteutl. When rolled up from each end, it is called a double-headed roller or bandage. The chief of the simple bandages are the cir- cular, the spiral, the uniting, the retaining, the expel!ent, and the creeping. The circular bandage is the simplest; con- sisting merely of a few circles of a roller cover- ing, or over-lapping each other. The spiral bandage is the most frequently used of all; for, it is this, which is seen in such com- mon employment on the limbs, in cases of ulcers, varices, See. In applying, a common roller to the w hole of a limb, the bandage must be carried round the part spirally ; for otherwise the whole mem- ber cannot be covered. When the leg is the part, the surgeon is to begin by surrounding the foot with a few turns. Then carrying the head of the bandage over the instep, lie is to convey it back- ward, so as to make the bandage unroll, and apply itself just above the heel. The roller may next be brought over the inner ankle; thence again over the instep, and under the sole; and the sur- geon then brings the bandage spirally upward once more to the outer part of the leg. After this, evety circle of the roller is to be applied, so as to ascend up the limb in a gradual, spiral form, and so as to cover about one third of the turn of the roller immediately below it. The increasing and diminishing diameter of the limb, is one great cause, which brings into view the unskilfulness of a surgeon in this common operation ; for, it pre- vents the roller from lying smoothly, although spirally applied, unless a particular artifice be dex- terously adopted. The plan alluded to, is to dou- ble back the part of the roller that would not be even, were the application to be continued in the common spiral way, without this manoeuvre. W lien the bulk of the limb increases very sud- denly, it is sometimes necessary to fold, or, as it is termed, reverse, every circle of the bandage in the above manner, in order to make it lie evenly on the limb. It is manifest, that the pressure of the roller will be greatest where the duplicatures are situated, and hence, when it is an object to compress any particular part, the surgeon should contrive to reverse the turns of the bandage just over the situation where most pressure is desira- ble. When a roller is to be applied to the forearm, it is best to make the few first turns of the band- age round the hand. Care must be taken not to make the bandage very tight, it it be intended to wet it afterwards with any lotion; far, it is always rendered still more tense by moisture. Mr. John Bell describes the principal purposes for which a roller is employed, as follows: “Al- though in recent wounds, it is with plasters and sutures that we unite the parts point to point, 7.e^1 *s w'th the bandage that we support the "Ini , preserve the parts in continual and perfecl ' ontact with each other, and prevent any strait "pon the sutures, with which the parts are imme- diately joined, and we often unite parts by the bandage alone. (This is called the Uniting Band- age, and will he presently described.) But it is particularly to be observed, that in gun-shot wounds, and other bruised wounds, though it would be imprudent to sew the parts, since it is impossible that they should altogether lAiite, yet the gentle and general support which we give"by a compress and bandage, prevents them from separating far from each other, unites the deep parts early, and lessens the extent of that surface, which must naturally fall into suppura- tion. “ In the bemorrhagy of wounds, we cannot always find the artery; we dare not always cut parts for fear of greater dangers; wc are often alarmed with bleedings from uncertain vessels, &c. or from veins as well as arteries : these he- morrhages are to be suppressed by the compress; which compress, or even the sponge itself, is but an instrument of compression, serving to give the bandage its perfect effect. Frequently, jn bleedings near the groin, or the arm-pit, or the angle of the jaw, wherever the bleeding is rapid, the vessels uncertain, the cavity deep, and the blood not to be commanded by a tourniquet, and where the circumstances forbid a deliberate and sure operation, we trust to compress and bandage alone. “ Bandage is very powerful in suppressing bleeding. At one period of surgery, it took place of every other method, See. If a compress be neatly put upon the bleeding arteries, if there be a bone to resist the compress, or even if the soft parts be firm below, and the bandage be well rolled, the patient is almost secure. But such a roller must be rolled smoothly from the very ex- tremity of the fingers or toes ; the member must be thoroughly supported in all its lower parts, that it may bear the pressure above. It is par- tial stricture alone that does harm, creates into- lerable pain and anxiety, or brings on gangrene. Hemorrhagy requires a very powerful compres- sion, which must therefore be very general, &c. It must not be made only over the bleeding ar- teries, which is all that the surgeon thinks of in general, Sec. “ In abscesses, where matter is working down- wards along the limb, seeking out, as it were, the weak parts, undermining the skin, and wast- ing it, insulating and surrounding the muscles, and penetrating to the bones, the bandage does every thing. The expelling bandage, the pro- pelling bandage, the defensive bandage, were among the names, which the older surgeons gave to the roller, when it was applied for these particular purposes; and these are properties of the roller, whieh should not be forgotten.” (Principles of Surgery, Vol. 1.) Soon after this description of some of the chief surgical uses of the roller, Mr. John Bell proceeds to explain, in what manner this most simple of all bandages may be put on a limb. “ Practice will convince you, that the firm- ness and neatness of a bandage depend altogether upon these two points; first, upon the turns suc- ceeding each other in a regular proportion; and, secondly, upon making reverses, wherever you find any slackness likely to arise from the vary- ing form of tlio limb. Thus, in rolling from the foot to the ankle, leg, and knee, you must take