304 CATARACT. length, which is nearly two inches. The short- ness of the needle is peculiarly useful, when the capsule is so opaque that the point cannot be seen through the pupil. tl. “ As this needle becomes gradually thicker towards the handle, it will remain fixed in that part of the sejerotis, to which the operator lias pushed it, while he employs its point in depress- ing and removing the cataract. But the spear- shaped needle, by making a wound larger in diameter, than that part of the instrument, which remains in the sclerotis, becomes unsteady, and is with difficulty prevented from sliding forwards against the ciliary processes, while the operator is giving it those motions which are necessary for depressing the cataract. “ On the same account the common spear- shaped needle may suffer some of the vitreous humor to escape during the operation, whereby the iris and ciliary processes would be somewhat displaced, and rendered flaccid; whereas the needle which I use, making but a small aperture in the sclerotis, and filling up that aperture com- pletely during the operation, no portion of the vitreous humor can flow out so as to render the iris and ciliary processes flaccid. 3. “ This needle has no projecting edges ; but the spear-shaped needle, having two sharp edges, which grow gradually broader to a certain di- stance from its point, will be liable to wound the iris, if it be introduced too near the ciliary liga- ment, with its edges in a horizontal position. 1 have been informed, that, in an operation per- formed by one of the most eminent surgeons in the metropolis, now deceased, the iris was di- vided as far as the pupil. If the operator, in or- der to avoid this danger, introduces his needle with its edges in a vertical position, he will di- vide the fibres of the sclerotis transversely, and, by thus enlarging the wound, will increase the unsteadiness of the instrument. Besides, how- ever, the needle be introduced, one of its sharp edges must be turned toward the iris in the act of depressing the cataract; and, in the various motions which are often necessary in this opera- tion, the ciliary processes are certainly exposed to more danger, than when a needle is used which has no projecting edge. 4. “ It has no projecting point. In the use of the spear-shaped needle, the operator’s intention is to bring its broadest part over the centre of the crystalline. In attempting to do this, there is great danger of carrying the point beyond the circumference of the crystalline, and catching hold of the ciliary processes, or their investing membrane, the niembrana nigra. This accident is the more probable, as the point of the needle must unavoidably be directed obliquely forwards, and this motion, if carried too far, brings the point into contact with the ciliary processes, as they surround the capsule of the crystalline. “ A needle, (recommended by Mr. Hey) will pass through the sclerotis with ease. It will de- press a firm cataract readily, and break down the texture of one that is soft If the operator finds it of use to bring the point of the needle into the anterior chamber of the eye (which is often the case), he may do this with the greatest safety, for the edges of the needle will not wound the iris. In short, if the operator, in the use of this needle, does but attend properly to the motion of! its point, he will do no avoidable injury to the eye, and this caution becomes the less embarrassing, as the point does not project beyond that part of J the needle by which the depression is made, the! extreme part of the needle being used for this! purpose.” {Hey.) Scarpa employs a very slender needle, pos-j sessing sufficient firmness to enter the eye with- j out hazard of breaking, and having a point, which j is slightly curved. The curved extremity of the|| needle is fiat upon its dorsum, or convexity, sharpli at its edges, and has a concavity, constructedjj with two oblique surfaces, forming in the middle a gentle eminence, that is continued along to the very point of the instrument; there is a mark on the side of the handle, which corresponds to the convexity of the point. The surgeons of the Leeds Infirmary have had one advantage in the needle, which they have used in imitation of Ba- ron Hilmer ; I mean, having it made of no greater length, than the purposes of the operationl demand. A couching needle is sufficiently lonj1 when it does not exceed, at most, an inch ii length : this affords the operator a greater com maud over the motions of the point, and enables him to judge more accurately, how far it has pe- netrated the globe of the eye, before he has an opportunity of seeing it through the pupil. To the needle, therefore, so much recommended by Scarpa, and so successfully used by him, and Doctor Morigi, principal surgeon of the hospital at Piacenza, and one of the most expert opera- tors of the present day in Italy, it seems proper to unite the improvement of having it made nc longer than is necessary. The needle, here de- scribed, will penetrate the sclerotic coat as rea- dily as any straight one, of the same diameter, and, by reason of its slenderness, will impair the internal structure of the eye less in its move-1 ments, than common couching needles. Wher cautiously pushed in a transverse direction, till its point has reached the upper part of the opaque lens, it becomes situated with its convexity to- wards the iris, and its point in an opposite direc- tion ; and, upon the least pressure being made} by its convex surface, it removes the cataract a little downward, by which a space is afforded at the upper part of the pupil, between the eataracl and ciliary processes, through which the instru- ment may be safely conveyed in front of thfl opaque body and its capsule, which it is prudent to lacerate in the operation. In cases of caseous, milky, and membranous cataracts, the soft pul of the crystalline may be most readily divided and broken piece-meal by the edges of its curv extremity; and the front layer of the capsule la cerated into numerous membranous flakes, whicl by turning the point of the instrument toward the pupil, may be as easily pushed through thi aperture into the anterior chamber, where Sc finds absorption takes place more quickly, tha behind the pupil. I ought to mention, however, that Beer, a few other skilful operators, still give the pr ference to a straight spear-pointed needle; an if such an instrument be selected, I do not thin a better one can be devised, than that describe by Scan a, but made quite straight. As I\Ir. Travers has observed, in all cases