865 OPHTHALMY a, ... [ ; often used for dispersing ganglions : the tu- jors are to be rubbed with it two or three times OLEUM PALME CAMPHORATUM. 1. Camphorae §ij. Olei palmae jj,j. '1 he : I umphor is to be reduced to powder, and the palm il, being melted, and suffered to become almost ,,olJ., is to be mixed with it in a mortar. This .plication is a mild topical stimulant; and has •en used for promoting indolent suppurations, specially those of a scrophulous nature, which ike place under the jaw, and are attended with a . ood deal of chronic induration. OLEUM RICINI. In surgical cases, re- tiring the bowels to be opened with the slightest >gree of irritation possible, the oleum ricini is le best and safest medicine. The usual dose is ae large table-spoonful, which must be repeated, /erv two or three hours, till the desired effect is . roduced. OLEUM TEREBINTHINE. Oiloftur- entine is employed externally as a stimulating niment, and a styptic. In the article Lini- n’nt may be seen some formulae, in which tur- entine is the most active ingredient. It is ometimes exhibited internally, for the cure of l6CtS« OLEUM TEREBINTHINATUM. R. )lei amygdalae ^ss. Olei terebinthinae gutt. u Misce. In deafness, occasioned by defective, or dis- lsed action of the glandulae cerumineac, Mr. laule directs a little of this oil to be dropped ito the patient’s ear, or applied at the end of a nail dossil of cotton. When a thin secretion takes place, the cure is so promoted by a small blister, which is placed i near the ear as convenient, and kept open with le savine cerate. The meatus auditorius ex- :rnus must also be cleansed every day with a ■ngthened bit of soft cotton, affixed to a probe, lee Pharmacop. Chirurgica.) OMPHALOCE'LE. (from o^a^oj, the avel, and x>)Xr, a rupture.) A rupture, or her- ia at the navel. (See Hernia.) ONYCHIA. (ovo^, the nail.) An abscess ear the nail of the finger. (See Whitlow.) ONYX, (from cvo£, the nail.) A small ollection of matter, situated in the anterior hamber of the aqueous humour, and so named •om its being shaped like a nail. It is of the ime nature as Hypopium, to which word I mst refer the reader. Maitre-Jean, Mauchart, nd several other oculists, imply by the term ’iyx, a small abscess between the layers of the ornea. OPHTHALMY. (from the eye.) Ophthalmia. Ophthalmitis. Inflammation of ie eye. This is not only a consequence of iveral affections of the eye, and adjacent parts, n the existence of which other disorders its con- nuance entirely depends, but is frequently the B rimary complaint, and too often the forerunner f such irreparable mischief as for ever bereaves 13 patient of vision. The determination of a reternatural quantity of blood into the organ, nd fulness of its vessels, or a congestion, as everal writers express themselves, is, according 3 Beer, the earliest change, which occurs in phthalmy in general. The next symptom is aid to be redness, which becomes more intense, I ’ -1 as the disorder makes progress, and it the com- plaint be protracted, the red assumes a dark hue, then a brownish, and lastly, a blaeish tinge. However, when the arteries and veins, affected soon return to their natural state, the redness of the textures of the eye may not attaiu the greatest intensity. Professor Beer seems to adopt similar views of the nature of the process of inflammation to those, which are taken by Dr. W. Philip, and some other writers already men- tioned, (see Inflammation,) for, in consequence of the small arteries and veins being deprived of their propelling power, he considers, that the blood in the texture, which is the immediate seat of inflammation, is in a state of actual stagna- tion. (Lchrc von den Augcnkrankheiten, B. 1, p. 30.) The third general symptom of oph- thalmy, described by Beer, as closely following the redness, is a tense, hard, painful swelling of the texture, directly affected. Lastly, in pro- portion as the pain, redness, and swelling are considerable, the more obvious is another com- mon effect of inflammation, viz. an increase of temperature, or heat. But. although the dis- turbed intercourse between the arterial and ve- nous systems is more obvious, than the effects of inflammation in other parts of the organization of the eye, yet, that the secreting and excret- ing vessels, and the absorbents, are also affected, is evinced by the augmented secretion and ex- cretion in the early stage of the disorder, fol- lowed, when the inflammation has become more intense, by a suppression of these functions, and a dryness and want of pliancy in the inflamed tex- tures of the eye. The disturbance of the connexion/ between the nerves and muscles also produces first various involuntary movements, which, as the inflammation makes progress, become more and more limited, and, at length, there is a complete loss of action in the textures of the eye, which are the seat of inflammation. But, inasmuch as every disease of the eye presents some differences, depending upon the nature of the disorder itself, and others, arising from the peculiar organization of the texture, which happens to be principally affected, the characteristic appearances of ophthalmy must be subject to a vast number of modifications, ac- cording as this, or that, structure of the eye is inflamed; and hence, sometimes one symptom of inflammation, sometimes another, chiefly pre- dominates, while others are less conspicuous, and often scarcely distinguishable. Yet, says Beer, none of the characteristic marks of inflam- mation are ever entirely absent. This author represents the degree of pain as being propor- tioned in a great measure to the tough unyield- ing nature of the parts, immediately around the inflamed texture of the eye, to the firm nature of the inflamed texture itself, and to the quantity of nerves, with which such texture, and the parts in its immediate vicinity, are supplied, hi proof of the truth of this doctrine, lie instances whit- lows and internal ophthalmy, where the pain is very severe; while inflammations of the con- junctiva, not extending to the deeper textures of the eye, are described as cases, in which the pain is slight, because the structure affected is loose and yielding. But, without scrutinizing every reason, assigned by Beer, for the varieties observable in the symptoms according to the 3 K