606 HERNIA. it were, spontaneously, after a bleeding, or whilst the patient was in the both. If, what J have said upon the subject of the acute strangulation, and the treatment that it requires, were generally known by surgeons, I think, that operations for strangulated hernioe would be less frequent, lliings are different, with regard to the chronic strangulation ol old large hernice, in feeble, or aged persons; for, in these cases, it is of great importance to support the patient’s strength. Bleeding, the warm bath, and other weakening means, should also be avoided, which, in pro- ducing a general atony, might bring on gan- grene of the intestine, either during the strangu- lation, or after the reduction of the viscert. It is ascertained, that these kinds of strangulation are almost always occasioned by an accumulation of fecal matter, or an extraordinary quantity of air in the hernia. Nothing is more efficacious, than cold applications, for promoting the action of the bowel on the matter, which distends it, or for lessening the volume of the air. They pro- duce a corrugation of all the scrotum, and con- tractions of the cremaster, which alone sometimes suffice for reducing the viscera, in a much better manner, than could be done by the hands of the most experienced surgeon.’'1 (Scarpa, Trait6 dcs Hermes, p. 244—247.) Bleeding.—The inflammation, which attacks the protruded viscera, and spreads thence over the whole abdomen, and the temporary weakness and often fainting, which the sudden loss of blood induces, and which is a peculiarly fa- vourable opportunity for reducing the hernia by the hand, are the reasons in favor of bleeding. Sharp, Pott, B. Bell, Sabatier, Richter, Callisen, and Scarpa, names which can never be surpassed in respectability, are all subscribed in favour of bleeding. Wilmer, Alanson, and A. Cooper, have published against the practice. Mr. Hey has related two cases, w hich strongly evince the manner, in which bleeding facilitates the return of a hernia: the protruded viscera, in one in- stance, went up spontaneously, on blood being taken away; in the other, the taxis succeeded immediately afterwards,' though the previous at-^ tempt had been made in vain. (P. 125, 126.) Mr. Key’s experience, however, leads him to concur so far with Wilmer and Alanson, as to declare, that bleeding has generally failed to pro- cure a reduction of the strangulated intestine, though he is persuaded that, in many cases, it may be used with advantage. But he cannot agree with Wilmer, that it> generally renders the subsequent operation more dangerous. (P. 126.) —The majority of candid practitioners, I believe, will allow, that bleeding is always proper, when the hernia is small and recent; the abdomen tense and painful; and the patient young, strong, and plethoric. Purgative Medicines.—My experience, (says Mr. Hey) leads me to condemn almost uni- versally the use of purgatives, while an intestine remains firmly strangulated. In the entero- epiplocele, when the intestine has retired, and the omentum remains strangulated; or in a sim- ple strangulation of the omentum, where the in- testine has not been prolapsed, purgatives aie ol great utility. So likewise in very large and old hernias, where there is reason to doubt, whether the disease is not to be considered as a morbid affection of the intestinal canal, rather than the effect of strangulation, purgatives may be as useful as in the simple ileus without hernia. While the intestine remains firmly strangulated, they usually increase the vomiting, and add to the distress of the patient. If they are to be tried at any time with hope of success, the trial would appear to have the greatest advantage when the vomiting has been removed by means of an opiate; yet I have repeatedly given them in vain during such an interval of relief. (Prac- tical Observations in Surgery, p. 128.) Purgatives are supposed to operate by exci- ting the peristaltic action of the intestine, and thereby' extricating it from the stricture. Be- sides the above eminent surgeon, Pott and Richter have joined in their general condemna- tion, and, to all appearances, with very great reason. Purgative glysters certainly have not the objection of increasing the irritation; but, their efficacy is not deserving of much confidence. Mr. Hey says that he has never seen one case, in which either purgative, or emollient glysters produced a return of a strangulated hernia. Such injections will empty the large intestines; but, they do no more- It is common also for a natural evacuation to be the immediate conse- quence of strangulation. (P. 131.) Warm Bath.— “ Many instances (say's Iley) are upon record of the good effect of warm bathing in procuring the reduction of a strangu- lated hernia. I have often seen it useful; but I have also often seen it fail. Whenever it is used in this disease, the patient should be placed, if possible, in a horizontal position. Gentle ef- forts with the hand to reduce the prolapsed part are perhaps attended with less danger, and with greater prospect of success, while the patient lies in the bath, than in any other position. The free use of opiates coincides with that of warm bathing, and under some circumstances, these means deserve to be tried in conjunction.” (P. 132.) Cold Bath, and Cold Applications.—The cold bath, and dashing of cold water on the pa- tient, are little to be depended upon, though suc- cess has sometimes been obtained in this man- ner. (Petit, Traite dcs Chir. T. 2, p. 325; Hey, p. 136.) Wilmer strongly recommended the applica- tion of cold to the tumor itself, and this plan has acquired the approbation of the most celebrated modern surgeons. It is generally’ tried in con- junction with the effect of tobacco glysters, which will be presently noticed. Cold applications, in the form of ice, were indeed, particularly recom- mended by B. Bell. The best way is to pound the ice, tie it up in a bladder, and place it on the rupture. When ice cannot be procured, Mr. A. Cooper employs a mixture of equal parts of nitre and muriate of ammonia. To one pint of water, in a bladder, ten ounces of the mixed salts are to be added. “ If, after four hours, (says this distinguished surgeon) the symptoms become mitigated, and the tumor lessens, this remedy may be persevered in for some time longer; but, if they continue with unabated violence, and the tumor resist every attempt at reduction, no far- ther trial should be made of the application.” (O/f Inguinal and Congenital Hernia.) When iec is not at hand, mther sometimes proves a