RET 961 RIC i stricture of the gut; a mistake which, he says, ' las often been made, and, as I believe, too often vilfully, and from motives of imposition. Mr. Copeland further advises the bowels to be kept mnstantly lax, by the use of castor oil, or 'lectuary of senna, during the whole of the treat- nent. (P. 30.) Whatever be the nature of the trieture, whether it be that kind in which the rec- um is obstructed by tubercles, by membranous laments intersecting its canal (which two species Mr. Copeland says are the most easily relieved), •r whether it be the indurated stricture, from a hickening of the coats of the intestine, this local reatment is equally necessary.—The plan is o be persisted in, until a full-sized bougie will readily pass, and even after all symptoms have lisappeared, it is recommended to introduce the ■ougie, and withdraw it again, once every two or hree days, for some time, in order to prevent a elapse. The indurated, annular stricture, which ong resists the bougie, Mr. Copeland sometimes livides with a probe-pointed curved bistoury on he side which is contiguous to the os sacrum ; md he has frequently seen the late Mr. Ford >erform the same operation. (P. 3-1.) When he disease is either combined with venereal ■ymptoms, or there is any reason for suspecting : t to be itself “ the solitary symptom” of lues, Mr. Copeland joins Desault in recommending a !; rial of the effect of mercury, in conjunction : < vith bougies. (P.44.) The formation of ab- ;ocesses, he remarks, is very frequent in the ad- j j r -anced stages of the disease, and he has often 'I een the common operation for fistula done un- ‘ icier such circumstances without success. (P.35.) When any stoppage of urine occurs in the dvanced stage of the disease, Mr. Copeland ad- rises surgeons not to use the catheter hastily. P. 39.) And, in the event of great pain and ■ rritation in the rectum, he has seen the greatest >enefit derived from the local application of ;pium, either in a glyster, or by the introduction }f one or two grains of the medicine within fie anus. He also speaks favourably of the effects of the warm bath, and fomentations, in giving temporary relief; and he has also exhi- bited in these cases the pil extracti conii cutn iivdrarg. submur with considerable advantage. A fatal case of mortification of the rectum is detailed by Larrey. (Parisian Chirurgical Journal, Vol. 2, p. 398, ti[C. See J. L. Petit, (Euvrcs Posthum. T. 2. Dr. Shcrwin on the Khirrho-contructed rectum, in Mem. of the London Medical Society, Vol. 2. Sir Everard Home, Obs. on Cancer, p. 129, 8[C. 8vo. Loud. 1805. L. F. J.Duchadoz, De Proctostcuia, sen ie Morbosis Intestim Recti Augustus, Monsp. 177!. C. O. Sicbold, De Morbis Jntesiini Recti. BaiJlic's Morbid Anatomy, p. 1116. (Eu- ercs Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, T. ‘2,p. 422. Observations on the principal Diseases of the Rectum, S(c. by T. Copeland, 1814.’ W. White, Observations on the Contracted Jutes- tinum Rectum, fit<o. Bath, 1812.) RESOLU1 ION. (from rcsolvo.) The subsidence of inflammation without any abscess, ulceration, mortification, fee. Also the disper- sion of swelliims, indurations, fee. RETENTION OF URINE. See Urine, Retention of, i RK l ROVERS 10 UTERI. A turning back - ward of the womb. See Uterus, Retroversion RICKETS. (Rachitis) Ts (mostly met with in young children ; seldom in adults. Mo- rand, however, (Acad, dcs Sciences, 1753.) mentions an instance, in which an adult became affected. The disease, it is said, may even take place in the foetus in utero; but the most com- mon period of its commencement is in children, between the ages of seven or eight months, and two years. Hence, as Mr. Wilson observes, its origin has frequently been imputed to the effects of dentition. He adds, that he has often known it to make its appearance after this time, and that it not unfrequently attacks the spine a little while before puberty, and may do so even later. (On the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, Ac. p. 162.) Pinel has given a description of the ske- leton of a rickety foetus. (Four crop’s Journal.) The disease seems to consist of a want of due firm- ness in the bones, in consequence of a defieieney in the phosphate of lime in their structure. The causes of the affection are involved in great ob - scurity. Authors have referred them to scro- phula, scurvy, lues venerea, difficult dentition, &c. ; and Richerand still firmly believes, that rachitis is only one of the effects of scrophula in its worst forms. (Nosographie Chir. T. 3, p. 148, Edit. 4.) But these are merely con- jectures, which will not bear a rigorous investi- gation. Professor Boyer, in particular, has well exposed their invalidity. (Traite, des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 611.) Rickety subjects are often at the same time scrophulous; and this is, probably, the only rea- son for scrophula being accounted a cause of the other affection. The particular appearances of rickety children we need not detail, as every 'one is familiarly acquainted with them : such children are usually of a bad, weak constitution, and their limbs and bones become bent in direc- . tions determined by the action of the muscles, and the weight and pressure which they have to sustain. When the affection is very general, the spine becomes shorter, and is curved in va- rious directions ; the breast becomes deformed, not only in consequence of the curvature nf the spine, but by the depression of the ribs, and projection of the sternum. The bones of the pelvis fall inwards, and the os pubis ge- nerally approaches the sacrum. The latter circumstance is one of the causes of difficult parturition. The clavicles become more bent and prominent forward; the os humeri is dis- torted outward ; the lower ends of the radius and ulna are twisted in the same direction; the thighs are curved forwards or outwards; the knees fall inwards; the spine and front surface of the tibia become convex ; and the feet are thrown outwards. According to the observations of Mr. Stanley, when the tibia and fibula become curved, they sometimes “ acquire increased breadth in the direction of the curve, losing a proportionate degree of thickness in the opposite direction. Hence the bones become, ns it were, newly mo- delled, passing from the cylindrical into the flat- tened form. This would seem to be designed for the purpose of enabling them to support more efficiently the weight of the body, since by this alteration they acquire increased breadth and 3 Q