122(3 ‘ ZINC. in a due position. Some writers think the use of a bandage quite sufficient for the purpose. When the sterno-cleido-mastoideus is affected, perhaps, the excision of a small portion of it would be prudent. Boyer met with a case of paralysis of the ex- tensor muscles of the head, attended with a con- stant approximation of the chin to the sternum. The disease resisted every plan of treatment, and an apparatus for supporting the head was the only thing found of any use. (See Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. *61, 8no. Paris, 1821.) Sharp's Treatise on the Operations of Sur- gery, chap. 35. Blatius, Ols. Med. Bar. p. 2, No. 1. Cure effected ly operation. M chart, De Capita Obstipo, Tult. 1737. Chi. rurgical Works of B. Gooch, Vol. 2, p. f;j. B. Bell's System of Surgery. lioonhuysen, Ileylcuren, p. 1, No. 22 and 33 : successful operation. Encyclopedic Methodique, Purtic Chirurgicale, T. 2, Art. Torticollis. Jolt. Christ. Gottfr. Jorg. uber die VerrJcriimmun- gen des Mcnschlichcn KUrpers, und cine ra~ tionellc und sickerc IIcilari dcrscllen; Leipzig, 3 810. Baron Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. T. l,p. 48, 8t’0. Petris, 1821. ZINC. The preparations of this metal are of considerable use in surgery. With respect to the sulphate of zinc, it may be said to be generally the best emetic, in cases, where it is desirable to empty the stomach without the least delay, as in cases of poison, for which purpose, the common dose is £)j. “ As an external ap- plication, this salt dissolved in rose water, in the proportion of griss to t?j. of rose-water, forms an excellent collyrium in the latter stage of ophthal- mia, after the inflammatory action has subsided ; it is a good injection in a similar stage of go- norrhoea; and a lotion in some kinds of su- perficial inflammations. Of double strength, this solution is the best application that can be used in serophulous tumors, after they have sup- purated, and the abscess been discharged.” (A. T. Thomson, London Dispensatory, Ed. 2, p. 559.) The unguentum zinci, composed of an ounce of the oxide of zinc, and six ounces of prepared lard, is an useful astringent, mildly stimulant application; and is frequently em- ployed in various cases of cutaneous diseases, ring-worm, sore nipples, and chronic inflamma- tion of the conjunctiva of the eyelids.