RRONCIIOCELE. 231 1. The simple bro-nchocele or thyrophraxia, is the most common limn of the disease, and is a mere enlargement of the thyroid gland. The in- teguments covering the part, arequite unchanged. Women are observed to be more subject to it than men. It is also well known to be in gene- ral free from danger, the office of the thyroid gland not being of such importance in the animal economv, as to be essential to the continuance of life. Alibert assures us, however, that he has seen one example, in which the tumor became cancerous, and destroyed the mother of a family. s’. The compound bronchocele is that which presents the greatest variety, and astonishes every beholder. Sometimes a more or less voluminous cvst is formed round it, tilled with a pultaceous, or purulent matter. Sometimes, in compound brouchoceles, calcareous, and other heterogenous substances are found. In two cases, Alibert ob- served, on the outside of the enlarged gland, a vellow fatty mass ; and, in a third instance, the gland itself formed a true sarcoma. (Norn dug ie Nat it telle, T. 1, 4b-4—4ii5, folm, Paris, 1817.) The term bronchocele, always signifies in this country, an enlargement of the thyroid gland, which, with the disease of the surrounding parts, sometimes not only occupies all the sp$ee from one angle of the jaw to the other, but forms a con- siderable projection on each side of the neck, ad- vancing forward a good way beyond the chin, and forming an enormous mass, which bangs down over the chest. The swelling, which is more or less unequal, in general has a soft spongy elastic feel, especially when the disease is not in a very advanced state; but. no fluctuation is usually per- ceptible, and the part is exceedingly indolent. The skin retains nearly its ordinary colour; but, when the tumor is of very long standing, and great size, the veins of the neck become more or less varicose. According to Prosser, the tumor generally begins between the eighth and twelfth years. 11 enlarges slowly during a few years, till, at last, it augments rather rapidly, and forms a bulky pendulous tumor. Women are far more subject to the disease, than men, and the tumor is ob- served to be particularly apt to increase rapidly during their confinement in childbed. Sometimes bronchocele atlects the whole of the thyroid gland, that is to say the two lateral lobes, and the intervening portion, and it is in this kind of case, that it is not unusual to remark three dis- tinct swellings, for the most part of unequal size, frequently, only one lobe is affected ; while, in many cases, the three portions of the thyroid gland are all enlarged, and so confounded together, that they make, as it were, only one connected globular mass. Finally, in some dissections, the thyroid gland lias been found quite unchang- ed, the whole of the tumor having consisted of a sarcomatous disease ol the adjacent lymphatic glands ami cellular membrane. ( Postiglionc, )>. ?1 •) When only one lobe of the thyroid gland is affected, it may extend in front of the carotid artery, and be lilted up by euch diastole of ibis vessel, so as to appear to have the pulsatory mo- llou ol aneurism (W. Purus's Surgical Aaa- l""n/ of i/it fleuduiiil Sock, p. 1<)5, ami Parisian Vol. % p. 2J2, 293.) Alibert, * ,l ves, that lie first made the remark, that the right lobe was more frequently enlarged, than the left. ( t\nsol. A'at. T. 1 p. +ti.'■>.) The ordinary scat of bronchocele, us Flajani remarks, is in the thyroid gland; but, sometimes cysts are formed in the cellular membrane. {Collet. ii’ Oss. T. 3, p. 277.) And Postiglionc also observes, that the swelling is sometimes en- cysted, and tilled with matter of various degrees of consistence, resembling honey, &c.; in some cases, it is emphysematous, or tilled with air ; and, in other instances, it is sarcomatous, having the consistence of a gland, which is enlarged, but not scirrhous. These different characters, says be, indicate, that the treatment ought not to be the same in all cases. (Mentoria satin Autura lit / Gozzo, p. 20.) Bronchocele is common in some of the valleys of the Alps, Apennines and Pyrennees. Indeed, there are certain places, where the dis- ease is so frequent, that hardly an individual is totally exempt from it. Larrey, in travelling through the valley of Maurienne, noticed, that almost all the inhabitants were affected with goitres of different sizes, whereby the counte- nance was deformed, and the features rendered hideous. {Mint. tie Cinr. ALL. T. 1. p. 123.) And Postiglione remarks, that in Savoy, Swit- zerland, the Tyrol, and Carinthia, there are vil- lages, in which all the inhabitants without ex- ception have these swellings, the position and regularity of which are there considered as indi- cations of beauty. {Memoria. sulla JVatura del Goizo, y. 22.) In many, the swelling is so enormous, that it is impossible to conceal it by any sort of clothing. A state of idiotisrn is ano- ther affliction, which is sometimes combined with the goitre, in countries, where the latter affection is endemic. However, all, who have the disease, are not idiots, nor cretins us they have been called, and in Switzerland, and elsewhere, it is met with in persons who possess the most perfect intellec- tual faculties. Where bronchocele and cretinism exist together, Fodere, and several other writers, ascribe the affection of the mind to the slate of the thyroid gland. (See I'ruile an- it: Goitre >t lc < 'reliuisnie, 8or. Paris, an. 8.)'This opinion, how- ever, appears to want foundation, since the men- tal faculties are from birth weak, and, in many the idiotism is complete, where there is no enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland, or where the tumor is not bigger than a walnut, so that no impediment can exist to the circulation to, or from the brain. (Burns on the Surgical Anatom p of the Head ami Neck, p. 192.) The direct testimony of Ur. Reeve also proves, that, in the countries, where cretins are numerous, many people of sound and vigorous minds have bronchocele. 'See Dr. liet i’ s’-i Paper on Cretinism, Palin. Med. and Surgical Journal, Pot. 5, p. 31.) Hence, as Mr. A. Burns has remarked, the combination <>t bronchocele and cretinism must he considered as accidental; a truth, that seems to derive con- firmation from the fact, that, in some parts of this country, bronchocele is frequent, where cre- tinism is seldom or never seen. In the valleys of several mountainous countries, particularly Switzerland, Savoy, the Tyrol, Carinthia, Der- byshire, Stc. brnnchncule i* endemic; and it occurs remarkably often in young subjects, ami much more frequently in the female, than the mate sex.