,t73 HEAD. blood, was easily extracted. The patient, how- ever, was not saved ; a circumstance, ascribed by Larrev, to the operation having been done too late. In another case, one of the Imperial Guards, wounded at the battle of Moskowa, died with symptoms of compression, and, after death, a quarter of a bullet, arid a fragment of bone, were found un er the skull, attended with an ulcer- ated or woundud) state of the adjacent portion of the brain. Larrey very properly expresses his opinion, that this soldier would have had a chance of being saved, had the trepan been used. (See Mem. de Chir Mil T. 4, p. 183, SfC.) The practice of trephining for the removal of balls, situated near a fracture of the skull, within this bony cavity, or lodged amongst the frag- ments, or between the two tables, forced asunder, (see Engel's Case in Vermischte Chir. Schrif- ten von J. L Schmucker. B. 1, p. 242,) is not peculiar to Larrey, for it has been done by many other surgeons, (seeSchmucker's IFahrnchmun- gen. B\,p. 2,98; but, I do not know, that he has been anticipated in his bold practice of making a counter-opening in t ie skull, when the ball is lodged at such distance from the fracture, that it cannot be extracted through any perforation made in the vicinity of the original injury; for, it is a principle, which he ventures to lay down, that, when a hall has entered the cranium, without quitting the roof of this cavity, the case is one requiring the application of the trepan. {Mem. de Chir. Mil. T 4, p. 180.) In the 2d vol. of this work, (p. 139,) the reader will find the account of a soldier, who was struck on the mid- dle of the fore-head with a ball, which penetrated the os frontis, and then passed obliquely back- wards, between the skull and the dura mater, in the course of the longitudinal sinus, as far as the lambdoidal suture, where it stopped. Larrey traced the situation of the ball, by the introduc- tion of an elastic gum catheter into the opening and measuring the distance between the fracture and the place where he felt the ball, he cut down upon that part of the skull, beneath which he concluded that the ball was lodged. The bone was then perforated with a large trepan; a good deal of pus was discharged ; the ball was ex- tracted, and the patient recovered. One thing here merits the attention of surgeons : Larrey tells us, that a good deal of pus issued as soon as an opening was made in the skull; there must then have been suppuration under the bone, and inflammation and detachment of the dura mater; circumstances always indicated, according to Pott, by a corresponding separation of the pericranium, and a puffy tumor of the scalp. Did these sym ptoms take place in the foregoing case, so as to be of an}- assistance to Larrey, in judging of the place where the ball was lodged? And, has the mention of them been omitted only by accident? or, are we to infer, that suppuration may happen between the cranium and dura mater, without any detachment of the pericranium and puffy tumor of the scalp ; a thing, which Bichat as- serts is proved by daily experience in the Hotel- Dicu, at Paris ? ( See CEuvres Chir. de Desault, T. 2, p. 29.) Larrey, in his 3d vol. p. (32, gives us another case, in which a ball pierced the left parietal bone, and lodged near the lambdoidal suture. Its situation was detected with the aid of an elastic gum catheter, and partly in conse- quence of there being a slight ecchymdsis over the part. Here a crucial incision was made through the scalp, and a small fissure discovered. As the symptoms of compression increased, the trepan was applied, so as to include the fissure. A half of the ball flattened was found directly under the perforation, and a good deal of blood was voided from the two openings in the cranium. For a fortnight, the case went on favourably, but, the patient was then attacked with what Lar- rey terms hospital fever, but which, in all pro- bability, was inflammation and suppuration of the membranes of the brain, and died. The records of surgery furnish numerous in- stances, in which the patients lived a considerable time with balls lodged in the cavity of the cra- nium. Thus, one is related by Paroisse, where the patient soon recovered his senses after the injury, and, at the end of six months, felt no in- convenience, except a difficulty of opening the mouth. {Opusculesde Chir. Obs. I,8r>0. Paris, 1806 ) Ramdohr has published another case, where a soldier was shot through the frontal sinus, and'the ball was found after death in the medul- lary substance of the left hemisphere of the brain, half an inch above the ventricle: yet, this patient lived four months after the injury, and soon re- covered bis senses after its occurrence. For a considerable part of this time, he was also free from an) bad symptoms. At last, he was affected with a kind of stupor, and an inability to open his left eye, and fell into a lethargic, and convulsed state. {Schmucker Vermischte Chir. Schrif- ten, B. 1, p. 277.) A French soldier, at the battle of Waterloo, was wounded with a musket ball, which entered at the anterior portion of the squamous suture, lodged in the substance of the brain, and on the fifth clay, after an enlargement of the wound, and the removal of several frao-- ments of bone, was extracted from the posterior lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain, where it was found resting on the tentorium. Yet, during the several previous days, the man, with the exception of a slight headach, and partial deafness of the right ear, seemed to enjoy per- fect health. The case ended well. (See Hen- lien's Mil. Surg. p 289. Ed. 2.) Still more remarkable instances of the duration of life, and even of the absence of very serious symptoms, after great and serious wounds of the brain, and the lodgment of balls, might here be cited; but, it will suffice to refer to the instructive I'-ssay of JVI. Quesnay, on the subject, in vol. 1, of the Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir.4to , and to the account of twenty-two French soldiers, whose vertices, with more or less of the brain, were cut off by sabre strokes. \11 these men ulti- mately died ; but, at first, had not a single bad symptom, and performed a journey of thirty leagues after being wounded, and one-half of this distance on foot. (See Paroisse Opuscules dc Chir. p. 41, $c.) 5. Extravasation under the Cranium, Sym- ptoms of Pressure an the Brain, (Jr. Mr. Pott remarks, “ the shock, which the head sometimes receives by falls from on h'gli, or bv strokes from ponderous bodies, does not unfre- quentlv cause a breach in some of the vessels, either of the brain, or its meninges; and, thereby, >