*2* GUA tion of the manner in which coagulable lymph, or granulations, are penetrated with blood-vessels, present themselves the moment we begin to re- llect on the manner, in which the same granula- tions. are provided with nerves, and these dif- ficulties are still increased, when we reflect, that the same granulations are in thq course of a few hours provided, not only with blood-vessels and nerves, but also with a system of absorbents, lhe existence of absorbents in granulations is proved, not only by the changes of bulk, which we see them daily undergo, becoming gradually, in the healthy state, smaller, firmer, and more compact, but, also, by the frequent disappearance, in whole, or in part, of a granulating surface by the process of ulcerative absorption.” (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 419.) livery young dresser of sores at an hospital, who has been too lavish of the red precipitate oint- ment, must have learned from experience, that mercury may be absorbed from the surface of ulcers, and bring on an unwished-for salivation of the patient. GUAIACUM. Many writers of the six- teenth century contended, that guaiacum was a true specific for the venereal disease; and the celebrated Boerhaave, in the .eighteenth, main- tained the same' opinion. Mr. Pearson men- tions, that when lie was first entrusted with the care of the Lock Hospital, in 178!, Mr. Brom- field and Mr. Williams were in the habit of re- posing great confidence in the efficacy of a de- coction of guaiacum wood. This was adminis- tered to such patients as had already employed the usual quantity of mercury; but who com- plained of nocturnal pains, or had gummata, nodes, ozaena, and such other effects of the ve- nereal virus, connected with secondary sym- ptoms, as did not yield to a course of mercurial frictions. The diet consisted of raisins, and hard biscuit; from two to four pints of the de- coction were taken every day; the hot bath was used twice a week; and a dose of antimonial wine and laudanum or Dover’s powder, was commonly taken every evening. Constant con- finement to bed was not deemed necessary ; neither was exposure to the vapor of burning spirit, with a view of exciting perspiration, often practised; as only a moist state of the skin was desired. This treatment was, sometimes, of singular advantage to those whose health had sustained injury from the disease, long confine- ment, and mercury. The strength increased; had ulcers healed; exfoliations were completed; and these anomalous symptoms, which would have been exasperated by mercury, soon yielded to guaiacum. Besides such cases, in which the good effects of guaiacum caused it to be erroneously regarded, as a specific for the lues venerea, the medicine was also formerly given, by some, on the first at- tack of the venereal disease. The disorder being thus benefited, a radical cure was considered to be accomplished-; and, though frequent relapses followed, yet, as these partly yielded to the same remedy, its reputation was still kept up. Many diseases, also, which got well, were probably not really venereal cases. Mr. Pearson seems to allow, that, in syphilitic affections, it may, in- deed, operate like a true antidote, suspending, fdr a time, the progress of certain venereal syn.- GUN ptoms, and removing other appearances alto- gether; but, he observes, that experience has evinced, that the unsubdued virus yet remains active in the constitution. Mr. Pearson has found guaiacum of little use in pains of the bones, except when it proved su- dorific; but, that it was then inferior to anti- mony", or ammonia. When the constitution has been impaired by mercury", and long confine- ment, a thickened state of the ligaments, or pe- riosteum, or foul ulcers, still remaining, Mr. Pearson says, these effects will often subside, during the exhibition of the decoction. He says, it will often suspend, for a short time, the pro- gress of certain secondary symptoms of the lues venerea ; for instance, ulcers of the tonsils, ve- nereal eruptions, and even nodes. Mr. Pearson, however, never knew one instance in which guaiacum eradicated the virus; and he contends, that, its being conjoined with mercury, neither increases the virtue of this mineral, lessens its bad effects, nor diminishes the necessity of giv- ing a certain quantity of it. Mr. Pearson re- marks, that he has seen guaiacum produce good effects in many" patients having cutaneous dis- eases, the ozaena, and scrofulous affections of the membranes and ligaments. (See Peaison on the Effects of Various Articles in the Cure if Lues Venerea, chit. 2. 1807.) GUMMA, a soft tumor, so named from the resemblance of its contents to gum. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS receive their name from the manner, in which they are produced, being generally" caused by hard, obtuse, metallic bodies, projected from cannons, muskets, or some other species of fire-arm. With such in- juries, it is also usual to comprehend a variety" of dreadful accidents arising from the explosion of shells, or the violence, with which pieces of stones from ramparts, or splinters of wood on board of shipy are driven about. Gun-shot wounds are the most considerable of the contused kind; and what is to be said of them, will apply, more or less, to all contused wounds, according to the degree of contusion. They are particularly characterized by", what the French surgeons are fond of calling, a disorganization of their surface. The excessive contusion, and vio- lence, observable in gun-shot wounds, de- pend upon the rapidity, with which the bodies occasioning them, are propelled. The parts, touched by the ball, are frequently converted into a blackish slough, the colour of which made our ancestors suppose, that bodies, projected by gunpowder, became heated, and actually’ burnt the flesh, with which they came into contact. But reason and experience have now pioved, that whatever may be the rapidity of a projectile, it never acquires in its passage any’ perceptible heat. Indeed, a modem writer asserts, that such a degree of heat as would be requisite to make a ball burn parts in its passage, would really melt it. (Richeraud, Nosogmjihie Chir. T. 1, />. 217, edit. 2.) In general, gun-shot wounds do not bleed much, unless large blood- vessels be injured ; their circumference is often livid; and the shock, that attends their infliction, or the injury done to the nerves, may occasion in the limb, or part, a kind of torpor, sometimes ex- tending itself to the whole system. However, as Dr. Hennen most truly observes,