1182 WOUNDS. Upon this interesting topic of the advantages of union by the first intention, the most enlight- ened surgeons of all Europe now begin to enter- tain only one opinion. The practice is generally adopted both in the treatment of accidental cuts, and of the wounds resulting from surgical opera- tions. Thus Assalini, one of the best modern surgeons in Italy, begins his Manual of Surgery with the following axiom: “ Wounds and inju- ries of the soft parts, produced by cutting instru- ments, from the trifling wound of a vein, made for the purpose of discharging a few ounces of blood, to the incision in the uterus for the extrac- tion ofthelcctus, inclusively, should all be united by the first intention.” (See Manuale di Chi- rurgia; Discorso Prhno. Milano, 1812.) British surgeons have, indeed, been accused by M. Roux of indiscriminate partiality to the plan of uniting all incised wounds by the first intention, and his countryman Baron Larrey has wished the method to be discontinued after am- putation, in order (as he states) to lessen the chance of tetanus. But, the exceptions, which these surgeons wish to make, are few, and few as they arc, they are not likely to be established, since several of the circumstances, alledged as reasons for limiting so beneficial a practice, are hypothetical, and far from being clearly proved. (SeeiiOK.r, Memoirc ct Ohs. sur la Reunion im- mediate de, la Plaic apres VAmputation circu- laire dcs Mcmbres, 8vo. Paris, 1814. Larrey, Mem. de Chir. Mil. Tome 4, 8vo. 1812—17.) Sometimes, the attempt to procure union by the first intention fails, even in cases of incised wounds; but, in this circumstance, no harm arises from the kind of practice, which has been followed. The case, in fact, now falls into nearly the same state, as would have occurred, had no attempt at union be made at all. The patient has taken the chance of a quicker mode of cure ; but, he has not been successful, and he must now be cured by a process, which on account of its slowness he at first wished to avoid. It is to be observed, also, that union by the first intention, if not spoiled by sutures, rarely fails so completely, that there is not a par- tial adhesion of some points of the wound. The moment, when we observe pain, inflammation, and swelling of the wound, a separation or gaping of its lips, the stitches tense (when these have been used,) and the points, where the stitches pass, particularly inflamed, Mr. John Bell advises us to undo the bandages, draw out the sutures, and take away every thing, which acts like a stricture on the wound. These pru- dent measures, he observes, may abate the rising inflammation, and prevent the total separation of the skin, while an endeavour may still be made to keep the edges of the wound tolerably near each other by the more gentle operation of stick- ing-plasters. However, when the inflammation rises still higher, and it h evident, that a total separation of the sides of the wound cannot be avoided, Mr. John Bell wisely recommends leaving the parts quite loose, and applying a large soft poultice; for, says he, should you in this cri- tical juncture, persist in keeping the parts toge- ther with sutures, the inflammation, in the form After the wound has been brought into a favour- able state, another attempt may be made to bring the edges near each other, not with sutures, but, strips of adhesive plaster, or the gentle ap- plication of a bandage. Mr. John Bell concludes with remarking, that the suppuration, production of granulations, and all that follows, are the work of nature. The only thing, that the surgeon can usefully do, is to take care of the health. When the wound does not suppurate favourably, the discharge generally becomes profuse, thin, and gleety. This state is to be amended by bark, wine, rich diet, and good air. I shall conclude this subject of union by the first intention, with an extract from the writings of Mr. Hunter, who observes that “ It is with a view to this principle of union, that it has been recommended to bring the sides (or lips) of wounds together; but, as the natural elasticity of the parts makes them recede, it has been found necessary to employ art for that pur- pose. This necessity first suggested the prac- tice of sewing wounds, and afterwards gave rise to various inventions in order to answer this end, such as bandages, sticking-plasters, and ligatures. Among these, the bandage commonly called the uniting bandage is preferable to all the rest, where it can be employed; but its application is very confined, from being only adapted to parts where a roller can be used. A piece of sticking- plaster, which has been called the dry suture, is more general in its application than the uniting bandage, and is therefore preferable to it on many occasions. “ I can hardly suppose (says Mr. Hunter,) a wound, in any situation, where it may not be applied, excepting penetrating wounds, where we wish the inner portion of the wound to be closed equally with the outer, as in the case of hare-lip. But even in such wounds, if the parts are thick, and the wound not large, the sides will seldom recede so far as to make any other means neces- sary. The dry suture has an advantage over stitches by bringing a larger surface of the wound together, by not inflaming the parts to which it is applied, and by neither producing in them sup- puration nor ulceration, which stitches always do. When parts, therefore, can be brought together, and especially where some force is required for that purpose, from the skin not being in large quantity, the sticking-plaster is certainly the best application. This happens frequently^ to be the case after the removal of tumors, in amputa- tion, or where the sides of the wound are only to be brought together at one end, as in the hare-lip; and I think the difference between Mr. Sharp s cross-stitch, after amputation, as recommended in his Critical Inquiry, and Mr. Allanson’s prac- tice, shews strongly the superiority of the stick- ing plaster (or dry suture). In those parts of the body where the skin recedes more than in others, this treatment becomes most necessary; and as the scalp probably recedes as little as any, it is therefore seldom necessary to apply anything in wounds of that part; the practice will certainly answer best in superficial wounds, because the bottom is in 'these more within its influence. “ The sticking plasters should be laid on in