BLEEDING. 225 the tube of the vein is free from induration. Sometimes the inflammation is rather indolent, producing a circumscribed and slowly suppurating tumor. Sometimes it is more diffused, and par- tabes of the erysipelatous nature. On other oc- casions, the affection is of the phlegmonous kind. \t lien the lancet has been bad, so as rather to have lacerated, than cut the parts; when the constitution is irritable, and especially when care is not taken to unite the edges of the puncture, and the arm is allowed to move about, so as to make the two sides of the wound rub against eacli other, inflammation will most probably en- sue. The treatment of this case consists in keeping the arm perfectly at rest in a sling, ap- plying the saturnine lotion, and giving one or two mild saline purges. When suppuration takes place, a small poultice is the best local applica- tion. 3. Absorbents influrned. Sometimes, particularly when the arm is not kept properly quiet after bleeding, swellings make their appearance about the middle of the arm, over the large vessels, and on the fore-arm, about the mid-space, between the elbow and wrist, in the integuments covering the flexor muscles. The swelling at the inner edge of the biceps is sometimes' as large as an egg. Before such swellings take place, the wound in the vein often inflames, becomes painful, and suppurates, but without any perceptible induration of the venal tube, either at this time, or after the subsidence of the inflammation. Pain is felt shooting from the orihce in the vein, in lines up and down the arm, and upon pressing in the course of this pain, its degree is increased. On examining the arm at- tentively, indurated absorbents may be plainly felt, leading to the tumor at the side of the biceps muscle. The pain and swelling often extend to the ixilla, where the glands also sometimes enlarge. hordlike substances, evidently absorbents, may iometimes be felt, not only leading from the mneture to the swelling in the middle of the irtn, but also from this latter situation up to the ixillarv giands, and from the wound in the vein town to the enlarged glands at the mid-space etween the elbow and wrist, over the flexor mscles of the hand. Tlie enlarged glands very often proceed to uppuration, and the patient suffers febrile svmp- )ms. It may be suspected 'that the fore- oing consequences arise from the lancet being nvenomed, and from the absorption of the indent matter; but the frequent descent of the isease to the inferior absorbents militates against •is supposition. [ When the absorbents become inflamed, they •ickly communicate the affection to the sur- uinding cellular substance. These vessels, hen indurated, appear like small chords, per- M>s of one eighth of an inch in diameter: this instance cannot be the slender sides of the 'ssels, suddenly increased in bulk, but an indu- V“n ti,e surrounding cellular substance. •p inflammation of the absorbents, in consc- I ,i‘rnc® ff local injury, is deducible from two I ll.’rs‘ nnc, the absorption of irritating matter; licet of the mere irritation of cnee of •uses; "I the other, the the divided tube. When virulent matter is taken up by the absorbents, it is generally conveyed to the next absorbent gland, where its progress being retarded, its stimulating qualities give rise to inflammation, and, frequently, no evident disease of the vessel, through which it has passed, can be distinguished. When inflammation of the absorbents happens in consequence of irritation, the part of the vessel nearest the irritating cause, generally suffers most, while the glands, being remotely situated, are not so much inflamed. The treatment of the preceding case consists in keeping the arm peifectly quiet in a sling, dress- ing the puncture of the vein with any mild sim- ple salve, covering the situation of the inflamed lymphatics with linen wet with the saturnine lo- tion, and giving some gentle purging medicine. When the glandular swellings suppurate, poultices should be applied, and if the matter does not soon spontaneously make its way out- ward, the surgeon may open the abscess. (See Abernethy’s Essay on this subject.) 4. Inflammation of the Vein. When the wound does not unite, the vein it- self is very likely to inflame. This affection will vary in its degree, extent, and progress. One degree of inflammation may only cause a slight thickening of tlie venal tube, and an adhesion of its sides. Abscesses, more or less extensive, may result from an inflammation of greater vio- lence, and the matter may sometimes become blended with the circulating fluids, and produce dangerous consequences, or the matter may be quite circumscribed, and make its way to the sur- face. When the vein is extensively inflamed, a good deal of sympathetic fever is likely to ensue, not merely from the excitement, which inflam- mation usually produces, but also from the irri- tation continued along the membranous lining of the vein towards tlie heart. If, however, the excited inflammation should fortunately pro- duce an adhesion of the sides of the vein to each other, at some little distance from tlie wounded part, this adhesion will form a boundary to the inflammation, and prevent its spreading further. The effect of the adhesive inflammation in pre- venting the extension of inflammation along membranous surfaces, was originally explained by Mr. Hunter. In one case, Mr. Hunter ap- plied a compress to the inflamed vein, above the wounded part, and he thought that lie thus suc- ceeded in producing an adhesion, as the inflam- mation was prevented from spreading further. When tlie inflammation does not continue equally in both directions, but descends along the course of the vein, its extension in the other direction is probably prevented by the adhesion of tlie sides of the vein to each other. (See Ohs. on tlie Inflammation of the interval, coats of veins by J. Hunter, in Trans, of a Soc. for the Improve- ment of Med. # Chir. Knouleduc, T o/. 1, p. IS. $r.) More information on this subject will be found under the head of Veins. Mr. Abernethy mentions bis having seen only three cases, in which an inflammation of the vein succeeded venesection. In neither of these did the vein suppurate. In one, about three inches of the venal tube inflamed, both above and below the puncture. The integutncnls over the