160 ANEURISM. membrane was separated with the finger, until the pulsation of the subclavian artery was felt where the vessel passes over the first rib. The finger being pressed upon this part of the artery, the cellular sheath investing it was carefully opened with the point of a knife. A ligature was then conveyed underneath the artery, by a com- mon aneurism-needle, with the greatest facility.” As soon as the ligature was tied, the pulsation in the tumor ceased. On the second day after the operation, the left arm began to have more feeling, and was as warm as the right. However, difficulty of breathing, twitchings, delirium, &c. afterwards ensued, and the patient died on the evening of the eighth day, previously to which event the ring and middle fingers turned black. On opening the body, the pericardium exhibited the effects of a high degree of inflammation, and the heart was covered with flakes of lymph, its posterior sur- face being of a deep red colour. The inner mem- brane of the ascending aorta was of a bright scarlet hue, was much diseased, and studded with white patches. A reddish appearance was also noticed in the lining of the right carotid, left subclavian, and even the abdominal aorta. The boundaries of the aneurismal tumor were in a state of spha- celation. These are ail the circumstances which I wish here to notice; but more particulars may be perused in Mr. Hodgson's work, p. 602. It is remarkable, that in the cases operated upon in the London Hospital, there was no difficulty experienced in passing the ligature under the artery with a common aneurism-needle, a cir- cumstance which must have depended upon the space between the clavicle and the first rib having been less deep in these instances than the two which fell under my own observation, or in others which occurred in the practice of Dr. Colies and Mr. A. Cooper. (See Lund. Med. Review, vi>/. 2. p. 200, mid Ldinb. Med. mid Sttrg. Journ. January, 1815.) In Dr. Colles's first case, the artery was tied before it reached the scaleni muscles, as the tumor, which was in the right subclavian artery, extended from the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle along the clavicle, a little beyond the arch of that bone, and rose nearly two inches above it, in a conical form, the apex of the cone being situated at the outer edge of the foregoing muscle. After a tedious dissection, it was found, that only a quarter of an inch of the artery was sound, and on this portion the ligature was placed. Great difficulty was encountered in passing it round the artery, and the pleura was supposed to have been slightly wounded. Before tightening the ligature, the breathing became laborious, and the patient complained of oppression about the heart. These symptoms, indeed, were so violent, that it was judged prudent not immediately to tighten the ligature. On the fourth day, how- ever, the artery was constricted, when the pulse at the wrist ceased, the patient not seeming to suffer much from what had been done. The pa- tient then went on pretty well till the ninth day, when he was seized with a sense of strangling, and pain about his heart, and becoming delirious, died in nine hours after the beginning of this attack. On dissection, the aorta was found dis- eased, and the disease ext tiding into the sub- clavian artery. In another instance, Dr. Colics tied this vessel at the point, where it emerges from between the scaleni muscles, without any particular difficulty. The operation, however, was soon followed bv a train of severe symptoms, delirium, and mortifi- cation, and the patient died on the fifth day. (See Edinl). Med. and Surg. Journ, Juunary, 1815.) The first case, in which complete success at- tended the operation of tying the subclavian artery, where it first comes from behind the an- terior scalenus muscle, was that under the care of Dr. l’ost, of New York. The patient was a gentleman, with an aneurism in the left axilla. Dr. Post performed the operation on the 8th of September, 1817, in the following manner. “ An incision, commencing at the outer edge of the tendon of the mastoid muscle, was carried through the integuments about three inches in length, in a direction deviating a little from a parallel line with the clavicle. This divided the external jugular vein, the bleeding from which required a ligature for its suppression; and, in proceeding with the operation, three or four ar- terial branches were cut, which it was also ne- cessary to secure. The subclavian artery was then sought for immediately external to the scaleni muscles, and was easily laid bare. Passing over the artery at this place, in contact with it, were three considerable branches of nerves, running downwards towards the chest from the plexus above. These were separated, and a ligature passed under the artery, with great facility, by the instrument well adapted to this purpose, in- vented by Drs. Parrish, Hartshorne, and Hew- son, of Philadelphia. On tying the ligature, all pulsation ceased in the limb.” In the afternoon, the temperature of the limb was observed to be rather higher, than that of the other arm. On the 17th of September, the aneurismal tumor burst, and about three ounces of dark coagulated blood were discharged. On the 26th the ligature came away from the subclavian artery. Oct. 11, the wound was entirely healed, and, on the 16th of the same month, the patient required no fur- ther attendance, his only complaints being now a little occasional pain in the fingers, and a su- perficial sinus at the part where the tumor burst. (See Medica-Chir. Trans. vaU 9- P- 185. The instructions, delivered by Mr. Hodgson, for the performance of this operation, are the best with which I am acquainted. When the subclavian artery (says this gentleman) has emerged from behind the anterior scalenus mus- cle, it passes obliquely over the flat surface of the first rib, with which it is in immediate con- tact. The cervical nerves are situated above, and a little behind the artery: the subclavian vein passes before it, and underneath the clavicle. If the linger be passed down the acromial margin of the anterior scalenus muscle, the artery will be found in the angle, formed by the origin of that muscle from the first rib. The shoulder being drawn down as much as possible, the skin is to be divided, immediately above the clavicle, from the external margin of the clavicular portion of the mastoid muscle, to the margin of the cla- vicular insertion of the trapezius. No advantage whatever is gained by cutting the clavicular at- tachment of the stcrno-cleido-mastoideus. I he exposed fibres of the platysma mvoides arc now to be carefully divided, without wounding the external jugular vein, which lies mmediately