LITHOTOMY. 765 Bull’s Principles of Surgery ; Deschamp’s Traite Historique, See. do l’Operation de la Taille, T. 1, LIQUOR POTASSiE (L. P.) This has been riven with a view of dissolving urinary cal- culi, in considerable doses, for a length of time. The trials, however, have not proved so success- ful as could have been wished, nor is the exhi- bition of so active a remedy unattended with dis- advantageous consequences to the system; for which reason, soda water and other alkaline waters, supersaturated with fixed air, have of late been much substituted. The proper dose of the liquor potassre, at first, is from ten to twenty drops, twice a day, in some linseed tea. At St. Thomas’s Hospital, the fol- lowing is the way in which the liquor potassse is prescribed:—j^,. Liq. Potassae ^i. Aquas Dis- iillatae t;ij. iYIisce Dosis Drachma una bis die ex uncus quatuor infusi lini. LIQUOR PLUMBI A GET AT IS (L. P.) —Is extensively used, largely diluted with water, as an application to inflamed parts. (See In- flammation.') One dram to a quart of water is quite strong enough for common purposes. Mr. Justamond and Dr. Cheston used to apply it, mixed with an equal proportion of a spirit re- sembling the tinctura ferri muriati, to the edges of cancerous sores. L1THONTRIPTICS. (from Xi0of, a stone ; and to break.) Medicines for dissolv- ing stones in the bladder. (See Urinary Cal- culi.) LITHOTOMY, (from a stone; and Tjjutva.’, to cut.J The operation of cutting into the bladder, in order to extract a stone. It has been correctly remarked, that no single operation of surgery has attracted so much no- tice, or had so much written upon it, as lithotomy. A full and minute account of the sentiments of every writer, who has treated of the subject, and a detail of the infinite variety of particular modes of making an opening into the bladder, would occupy as many pages as are allotted to the whole of this dictionary. It must be my endeavour, therefore, rather to describe what is most interesting and important, than pretend to offer an article which is to comprehend every thing. May I be allowed to premise, that throughout the following columns, I suppose the reader to be already well informed of all that relates to the anatomy of the bladder and adjacent parts, and that of the perinacum ? Without correct know- ledge of this kind, a man must be presumptuous, indeed, to set himself up for a good lithotomist; and if he were to distinguish himself at all, it would only be by the murders which he com- mitted, while his successful feats, if he achieved any, could redound little to his honour, since every young student would soon find out, that they were not the effect of science, but of me- chanical habit and imitation. I would particu- larly recommend every one, who wishes to un- derstand well the anatomy of the pelvic viscera and perineeum, with a view to lithotomy, in the first place to dissect those parts himself, and then avail himself of the valuable instructions to be derived on the subject from Winslow’s Ana- tomy ; Le Dran’s Parallele de Tailles; Le f at’s Deuxieme Recueil, planche 5 et 6 ; Hal- ier’s Inst. Med. of Bocrhaave, and Elem. Physiol. P. 5 ; Morgagni, Adversar. Anat. 3, p. 82, 97 ; Camper’s plates; Sabatier’s Anatomy; John p. i, occ. ; and Langenbeck’s description of the parts, and the matchless plate, which he has given of them in his valuable work on lithotomy, cited at the end of this article. A few subjects, which are closelv connected with the present, will be found in other parts of this dictionary. For instance, the nature of stones in the bladder will be considered under the head of Urinary Calculi, where also will be seen some observations on lithontripties. The manner of searching for the stone, or, as it is now more commonly expressed, of sounding, will be explained in the article Sounding. Here I shall principally confine myself to the symptoms of the disease, and the chief methods of executing the much diversified operation of lithotomy. SYMPTOMS OF THE STONE. The symptoms of a stone in the bladder are, a sort of itching along the penis, particularly at the extremity of the glans; and hence the patient often acquires a habit of pulling the prepuce, which becomes very much elongated ; frequent propensities to make water, and go to stool; great pain in voiding the urine, and difficulty of retaining it, and often of keeping the feces from being discharged at the same time ; the stream of urine is liable to stop suddenly, while flowing in a full current, although the bladder is not empty, so that the fluid is expelled by fits, as it were; the pain is greatest towards”the end of, and just after, the evacuation; there is a dull pain about the neck of the bladder, together with a sense of weight, or pressure, at the lower part of the pelvis: and a large quantity of mucus is mixed with the urine ; and, sometimes, the latter is tinged with blood, especially after exercise. (Sharp, Earle, Sabatier.) Frequently (says Deschamps) a patient will have a stone in his bladder a long while without the occurrence being indicated by any symptom or accident. 'Most commonly, however, the presence of the stbne is announced by pain in the kidneys, more especially in adults’ and old persons, children scarcely ever suffering in this way, because in them the stone is hardly at all detained in the kidneys and ureters, but descends immediately into the bladder, the preceding tubes being in them more dilatable, and the rudiment, or nucleus of the stone smaller. It seldom happens, that calculous patients void blood with their urine, before the svmptoms and accidents, usually caused by the stone, have taken place. It is not till after the foreign body has descended into the bladder, acquired some size, and presented itself at the orifice of that viscus, that pain is occasioned, particularly when the surface of the stone is unequal. The patient then experiences frequent inclination to make water, attended with pain. The jolting of a carriage, riding on horseback, and much walk- ing, render the pain more acute. The urine appears bloody, and its course is frequently in- terrupted, and sabulous matter and particles of stone are sometimes discharged with it. The want to make water bt conics more frequent and more*Insupportable. The bladder is inflated,