1075 ULCERS. time, before they were removed from the limb. He had soon the satisfaction to observe, that the inconvenience was not only prevented, but that even,- succeeding case justified the confidence he now began to place in the remedy. He also discovered, that moistening the bandages was attended with advantages which he did not ex- pect : while the parts were wet and cool, the patients were much more comfortable, and the surrounding inflammation was sooner removed, than he had before observed it to be. By the mode of treatment here recommended, Mr. Baynton found, that the discharge was less- ened, the offensive smell removed, and the pain abated in a very short, time. But, besides these advantages, he also found, that the callous edges were in a few days level with the surface of the sore ; that the growth of fungus was prevented, and the necessity of applying painful escharotics much lessened, if not entirely done away. Mr. Baynton gives the following description of his method. “ The parts should be first cleared of the hair, sometimes found in considerable quantities upon the legs, by means of a razor, that none of the discharges, by being retained, may become acrid, and inflame the skin, and that the dressings may be removed with ease at each time of their re- newal, which, in some cases, where the discharges are very profuse, and the ulcers very irritable, may, perhaps, be necessary, twice in the twenty- four hours, but which I have, in every instance, been only under the necessity of performing once in that space of time. “ The plaster should be prepared by slowly melting, in an iron ladle, a sufficient quantity of litharge plaster, or diachylon, which, if too brittle, when cold, to adhere, may be rendered adhesive by melting half a drachm of resin with every ounce of the plaster: when melted it should be stirred till it begins to cool, and then spread thinly upon slips of smooth porous calico, of a convenient length and breadth, by sweeping it quickly from the end, held by the left liandmf the person who spreads it, to the other, held firmly by another person, with the common elas- tic spatula used by apothecaries; the uneven edges must be taken off) and the pieces cut into slips, about two inches in breadth, and of a length that will, after being passed round the limb, leave an end of about four or five inches. The middle of the piece so prepared, is to be applied to the sound part of the limb, opposite to the inferior part of the ulcer, so that the lower edge of the plaster maybe placed about an inch below the lower edge of the sore, and the ends drawn over the ulcer with as much gradual extension as the patient can well bear; other slips are to be secured in the same way, each above and in contact with the other, until the whole surface of the sore and the limb are completely covered, at least one inch below, and two or three above, the diseased part. “ The whole of the leg should then be equally defended with pieces of soft calico, three or four times doubled, and a bandage of the same, about three inches in breadth, and four or five yards in length, or rather as much as will be sufficient to support the limb from the toes to the knee, should be applied as smoothly as can be possibly performed by the surgeon, and with as much firm- ness as can be borne by the patient, being first passed round the leg, at the ankle joint, then as many times round the foot as will cover and sup- port every part of it, except the toes, and after- wards up the limb till it reaches the knee, obser- ving that each turn of the bandage should have its lower edge so placed as to be about an inch above the lower edge of the fold next below. “ If the parts be much inflamed, or the dis- charge very profuse, they should be well moist- ened, and kept cool with cold spring-water, poured upon them as often as the heat may indi- cate to be necessary, or, perhaps, at least, once every hour. The patient may take what exer- cise he pleases, and it will be always found, that an alleviation of his pain and the promotion of his cure will follow as its consequence, though, under other modes of treating the disease, it aggravates the pain, and prevents the cure. “These means, when it can be made conveni- ent, should be applied soon after rising in the morning, as the legs of persons affected with this disease are then found most free from tumefac- tion, and the advantages will be greater than when they are applied to limbs, in a swollen state. But at whatever time the applications be made, or in whatever condition the parts be found, I believe it will always happen, that cures may be obtained by these means alone, except in one species of the disease, which seldom occurs, but that will hereafter be described. The first appli- cation will sometimes occasion pain, which, how- ever, subsides in a short time, and is felt less sensibly at every succeeding dressing. The force, with which the ends are drawn over the limb, must then be gradually increased, and when the parts are restored to their natural state of ease and sensibility, which will soon happen, as much may be applied as the calico will bear, or the surgeon can exert; especially if the limb be in that enlarged and compressible state, which has been denominated the scorbutic, or if the edges of the wound be widely separated from each other.” Mr. Baynton afterwards takes notice of the breaking of the skin, near the ulcers; a circum- stance, which sometimes proved troublesome, and arose partly from the mechanical effect of the adhesive plasters, and partly from the irritating quality of the plaster. Mr. Baynton, however, only considers such sores of serious consequence, when they are situated over the tendon of Achil- les, in which situation they are sometimes several weeks in getting well. This gentleman recom- mends, with a view of preventing these ulcers, a small shred of soft leather to be put under the adhesive plaster. Mr. Baynton next adds, “that cures will be generally obtained without difficulty, by the mere application of the slips and bandage; but, when the parts are much inflamed, and the secretions great, or the season hot, the frequent application of cold water will be found a valuable auxiliary, and may be always safely bad recourse to, where the heat of the part is greater than is natural, and the body free from perspiration.’ (See A Descriptive Account of a new Method oj treat- ing old lfleers of the Legs, Edit. 2, 17119.) One circumstance, strongly in iuvour ot the fl Z 2