ANEURISM. 144 Tliis subject died of a fever in March, 1787, and, on dissection, the femoral artery was found impervious from the giving off of the arteria profunda down to the place of the ligature, and an ossification had taken place for an inch and a half along the course of this part of the vessel. 13elow this portion, the vessel was pervious, till just before it came to the aneurismal sac, where it was again closed. What remained of the sac was somewhat larger than a hen’s egg, and it had no remains of the lower opening into the popliteal artery, The rest of the particulars of this dissection are very interesting. (See Trans, nf a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Cliir. Knowledge, Vol. 1, p. 153.) This celebrated case completely established the important fact, that simply taking off the force of the circulation is sufficient to cure an aneurism, as the tumor is afterwards diminished and removed by the action of the absorbent vessels. In order to confirm the same fact, Sir E. Home related a case of femoral aneurism, which got well without an operation, but, on a similar principle, to what occurs, when the arterv is tied. A trial of pressure had been made without avail. The tumor became very large, and such in- flammation took place in the sac and integu- ments, that mortification was impending: no pulsation could now be felt in the tumor, or the artery above it. The correct inference of Sir E. Home was, that a coaguium, which we know always occurs in an artery previously to mor- tification, seemingly to prevent bleeding, had formed in this instance, and in conjunction with the effusion of coagulable lymph about the root of the aneurism, had kept the blood from entering the sac. Mr. Hunter’s second operation was on a trooper. Instead of using several ligatures, which were found hurtful, he tied the artery and vein with a single strong one; but, unluckily, the experiment was made of dressing the wound from the bottom, instead of attempting to unite it at once: and the event was, that the man died of hemorrhage. After this case, Mr. Hunter’s practice was to tie the artery alone with one strong ligature, and unite the wound as speedily as possible. Having recorded Mr. Hunter’s cases, which first established the present method of operating for the cure of popliteal aneurisms, I shall not repeat the strong reasons which exist against the employment of reserve-ligatures, metallic com- pressors; two ligatures, with the division of the vessel between them ; the interposition of pieces of linen, wood, cork, agaric, &c. between the knot and the vessel; the use of large liga- tures; and other contrivances, the merits, or rather demerits, of which have been already fully considered in the preceding section. My next duty is to explain the method of performing the Hunterian operation, as brought to its modern state of improvement, and adapted to the wise principles, which first emanated from the valuable experiments and investigations of Dr. Jones. (See Hemorrhage.') In the arrangement of the assistants, one of them should be so placed, that if required, in con- sequence of any accidental wound of that vessel in the operation, lie can compress the femoral artery as it passes over the brim of the pelvis; but, as Scarpa justly observes, no pressure of this kind is to be made, unless the accident referred to should happen, because the pulsations of the artery, inasmuch as they indicate the track of the vessel, must tend materially to facilitate the operation. The surgeon, says Scarpa, is to ex- plore with his forefinger the course of the artery from the crural arch downwards, and when he comes to the place, where the vibration of this vessel begins to be less distinctly felt, this point is to be fixed upon for the lower end of the ex- ternal incision. This angle of the wound will fall nearly on the inner edge of the sartorius, just where this muscle crosses the track of the femoral artery, and at the very apex of the triangle formed by the convergence of the tri- ceps and vastus internus. A little more than three inches above the place here fixed upon, the surgeon is to begin with a convex-edged bis- toury, the incision through the integuments and cellular substance, and carry the wound down the thigh, in a slightly oblique line, from with- out inwards, so as to make it follow' the course of the artery, as far as the apex of the above- mentioned triangular space, or the point where the vessel passes under the inner edge of the sartorius muscle. In order to make this first external incision with correctness, I consider it a good rule always to take particular notice of the line described by the sartorius on the thigh, the inner margin of which muscle at the place where it meets the artery, as we have seen, forms at once the lower boundary of the incision, and an important guide to the vessel itself. By ob- serving the track of the sartorius attentively, we shall likewise avoid all chance of making the wound too low dowm, so as to have this muscle intervening between the incision and the artery; a greater source of embarrassment in the ope- ration, and of troublesome consequences after- wards than, perhaps, any other error; for, when this has happened, and the surgeon has not room enough afforded by the higher part of the wound to get at the artery above the sartorius, he is compelled to dissect and raise up this muscle from its natural connexions, ere he can plainly discover the vessel. This inconvenience made a deep impression on me in the first case, where I tied the femoral artery, for the intervention of the sartorius in a stout soldier, upon whom the operation was done, threw me into the dilemma of either dissecting at the outer edge of this muscle and drawing it inwards, or of enlarging the wound upwards. The latter proceeding was that to which I gave the preference, because it seemed to me an excellent maxim in this ope- ration, to avoid making any further detachment of parts from their natural connexions, than is absolutely necessary, and I knew, that when the wound was extended a little higher up, the artery would present itself more superficially, quite un- concealed by any muscle whatever. Strongly, therefore, as my principles have led me to con- demn Scarpa’s modification of the ligature, his use of from four to six threads, and his inter- position of a roll of linen between the knot and the vessel. I feel pleasure in expressing my con- viction of one excellence in his mode of ope- rating ; an improvement, which is now obtain- ing, if it has not already obtained, the universal approbation of the surgical profession. '1 Ins amendment consists in making the incision in