OPHTHALMY. 8C9 leir matter be applied immediately to the eye self; but, lie admits, that they often dispose lis or<mn to inflame from slight causes, by the npairment, which they produce of the general ealth. On the other hand, he considers all mtagums as very quickly affecting the whole r the constitution, directly through the medium ‘ the skin, or the trachea, lungs, oesophagus, c. Hence, contagion is set down as being ■tch more frequently, than infection, the in- rect cause of ophthalmy. Beer conceives, how- ver, that as the contagious prinoiple is blended 5th the atmosphere, it may also have an imme- ate operation upon the eyes, and thus he at- mpts to account for the organs not unfre- lently exhibiting a tendency to inflammation the very moment of the contagion taking lect. (j8. ], p. 121.) But, this is a difficult id obscure subject, which can be viewed to ore advantage, when particular kinds of oph- lalmy are considered. In Beer’s general observations on the treat- lent of inflammations of the eyes, the first indi- rtion specified, is to remove immediately every iing, which is obviously producing an U n- iting effect upon the eye, and to take care that no resh source of irritation to the organ incident- lly take place. And, as it frequently happens, ven in healthy, strong individuals, that ophthal- iv is occasioned by foreign bodies, either lodged nder the eyelids, or inserted in some part of the y’eball, and not suspected to be there, the earli- ;t attention should always be paid to their gentle ad skilful removal. Easy as this object is of :complishment, when not delayed, when the ye has not been seriously irritated by friction and pressure, and the patient is not of a weak, it ritable constitution, it is often attended with reat difficulty under one, or the other of these ircumstances, especially the last. In this case, trong convulsive rotations of the eyeball, fol- ded by a violent and obstinate spasmodic clo- ure of the eyelids, render it impossible to sepa- ate them; and the spasm is the stronger and acre lasting, the more the extraneous substances re calculated by their shape and chemical quality, o irritate the eye; and the greater the irrita- ility of the patient is. In this state of things, very attempt forcibly to open the eye, or to xamine it in the light, is not only useless, but icreases and keeps up the spasm, which nothing dll lessen and shorten, except darkness and erfect repose. But, as timid irritable persons re exceedingly apprehensive of the consequences f the lodgment of extraneous substances in the ye, the surgeon should endeavour to lessen their iquietude, by assuring them that every thing fill be right again, which is strictly true, when he foreign bodies are of the first class. Then he spasmodic closure of the eyelids will cease, md the extraneous substance admit of being •roperly taken away. Success, however, does not always attend this ample method ; for, in very weak subjects, the •pasm of the orbicularis palpebrarum is so vio- ent and obstinate, especially when a foreign joi y lodges in the eye, and at the same time nechanically and chemically irritates i t, (as is ■ e case with particles of snulf,) that it becomes ndispensable to have recourse to medicinal appli- cations. kor this purpose, Beer’s experience has convinced him, that the best tiling is a bread poultice, made either with milk or water, and containing some of the vinous tincture of opium. Care is to be taken, however, never to let it be- come quite cold, during its application ; for then the spasm would only be aggravated by it; and, if such spasm has been of long continuance, when the surgeon is first sent for, the poultice, according to Beer, may be rendered more effica- cious by the addition of hyosciamus to it. In very irritable hysterical and hypochondriacal per- sons, such local treatment alone is frequently insufficient, and recourse must be had to the in- ternal exhibition of antispasmodic anodyne medi- cines. At length, when the spasm of the orbi- cular muscle is so far diminished, that the eye- lids can be effectually opened without any force for the extraction of the foreign body, great caution and gentleness will yet be necessary, and, in particular, the eye should be kept in a very moderate light, as the spasm would be im- mediately excited again, either by sudden ex- posure of the eye to too much light, or rough handling of the eyelids. Sometimes, a person rubs his eye at first awaking in the morning, and if the eyelashes are very numerous and rigid, one of them will lodge between the eyeball and lower eyelid: it may readily betaken away with the end of a fine moist sponge, or camel-hair pencil, the eyelid being depressed as much as possible, and the eye itself turned upward, so that the hair may not be con- cealed in the fold of the conjunctiva. When the hair is situated under the upper eyelid (which Beer says rarely happens,) it always lodges in the fold of the preceding membrane, whence it may be extracted in the manner above directed, with the difference that the eyelid must be raised, or everted, and the eye rotated downwards.— (Lchrc von den Krankh. B. 1, p. 128, 130.) For directions respecting the treatment of re- dundant and inverted ciliae, see Distichiasis and Trichiasis. Small globular smoqth extraneous bodies, lodged under the eyelids, are very easily ex- tracted, when the eyelid is gently taken hold of both by its edge and the eyelashes, and lifted up from the eye, while the patient inclines his head forwards, and the eye is turned completely down- wards: the effusion of tears, excited by these manoeuvres, will now generally wash these ex- traneous substances out of the eye, as they are not at all fixed. When the fissure between the eyelids is wide and open, but the eyeball at the same time very prominent, the object may also be easily accomplished, when the upper eyelid is gently and repeatedly stroked with the finger from the outer towards the inner canthus; in which case, the round smooth foreign body soon makes its appearance above the caruncula la- chrymalis, whence, it falls out of itself, or may be taken with the corner of a pocket handkerchief. The worst cases are those, in which the eyes are very prominent, and the fissure of the eye- lids small, as all the above methods are then useless, and only productive of irritation. In this circumstance, therefore. Beer recommends the surgeon to take hold of the eyelid by the cilirc and its edge witli the thumb and forefinger, and separate it from the eyeball, which is to be turned downwards, while, with Daviel’s small