1038 URETHRA. with a view to deaden the edge of the stricture, as the only probable means of effecting a cure. The degree of irritation was already great; I was, however, led to believe, that the application of the caustic was not likely to increase it; since, by destroying the irritable part, it might lessen, and even remove, the spasmodic affection ; but if, contrary to my expectation, the irritation continued, we still should be able to draw off the water, as the slough formed by the caustic would prevent the edge of the stricture from acting and obstructing the instrument. “ -The application of the caustic was, upon these grounds, determined on ; and it was ap- plied in the following manner. “ I passed a common bougie, nearly the size of the canal, down to the stricture, to ascertain its exact situation, and to make the canal of the urethra as open as possible. The distance was then marked, upon a bougie armed with caustic, of the same size, which was conveyed down as quickly as the nature of the operation would ad- mit. It was retained, upon the stricture, with a slight degree of pressure; at first there was no pain from the caustic, but a soreness from press- ure ; in less than a minute, a change was felt in the sensation of the part, it was at first a heat, succeeded by the burning pain peculiar to cau- stic ; as soon as this was distinctly felt, the bougie and caustic were withdrawn, having remained in the urethra about a minute altogether. The soreness, he said, was entirely local, by no means severe, was unaccompanied by irritation along the canal, and he thought the uneasiness in the bladder diminished by it. He described the pain as resembling very exactly the first symptoms of gonorrhoea. This sensation lasted half an hour after withdrawing the bougie. “ The caustic was applied about one o’clock in the forenoon, and he passed the day mere free from irritation, than he had been since the beginning of the attack, which had lasted six days. In the evening, the water was drawn off, with more ease than the night before. He passed a tolerable night, and, the next day, continued free from irritation. On the third clay, the caustic was again applied in the forenoon; the painful sensation was less than on the former application, lasted a shorter time, and in an hour after the armed bougie was withdrawn, he made water freely for the first time since the com- mencement of his indisposition. He said the irritation in the bladder was removed, and he felt very well, his appetite returned, he slept very well, and continued to void his urine with ease. “ In this state, nothing was done till the fifth day, leaving always a day between the applica- tions of the caustic. “ On this day a common-sized bougie went readily into the bladder; it was immediately withdrawn, and the cure was considered as com- plete; ho bougie was afterwards passed, lest it might bring back an irritation upon the passage. I met this gentleman twelve months afterwards, and he assured me, he had continued perfectly well, and I have since learned, that, in three years, there has been no return. ,l From the result of this case, I was encou- raged to hope, that the caustic might be applied 4., pfi'i/iturnp i„ tim in'oilirn with moic confidence did not bring on, or increase the general irrita- tion, but, on the contrary, seemed to allay it.” The foregoing case, together with anothei, which Sir E. Home has related, convinced tins gentleman, that he had discovered an effectual mode of treating such strictures, as do not admit of being relieved by the common bougie. Hence, he adopted the use of armed bougies, as a gene- ral practice; but, he has not concealed the cir- cumstances, under which the method does not prove successful. Sir Everard informs us that “ In some constitutions, where the patients have resided long in warm climates, every time the caustic is applied to a stricture, a regular parox- ysm of fever, called by the patient an ague, takes place; and this has been so violent as to render it impossible to pursue this mode of practice. Of this I have met with two instances. I con- sider this disposition to fever as the effect of climate, and not of any natural peculiarity of constitution; for the brother of one of these" pa- tients laboured under the same disease, but as he had not been in warm climates, it was removed by the caustic, without his experiencing such attacks.” In gouty constitutions, attacks of the gout have in two instances brought on spasmodic constrictions, after the stricture had been re- moved by caustic. This, however, cannot be called a failure of the caustic. It only shews, that gout can affect strictures, and reproduce them. , “ In some patients, the strictures are so ob- durate, that the use of the caustic is necessary to be continued for a longer time, than the parts can bear its application, or even that of the bougie passing along the urethra; irritation there- fore comes on and stops the progress of the cure, and when the same means are resorted to again, the same thing takes place. The cases of failure of this kind that I have met with, some of which may yet ultimately be cured, if the patients will take the necessary steps for that purpose, amount in all to six. “ In some patients, the stricture is readily removed by the caustic, but, in a few weeks, contracts again. The stricture being wholly spasmodic, the caustic, by taking oft’ the spasm, is allowed to pass through, and cannot com- pletely destroy the stricture. Of this kind, I have met with one instance, which I must con- sider as a failure, as I have hitherto been unable to get the better of it. “ In those cases, where the caustic gradually removes the stricture, and brings the urethra to a size, that allows the patient to make water perfectly well, if there is any return, it is not to be attributed to the failure of the caustic, but to the want of proper management, either from the caustic being too small, or its use left off too soon; but, all such eases are, I believe, within the power of being cured by the caustic, if its use is recurred to when that is found necessary.” For the generality of strictures in the urethra, which do not occupy more extent of the canal, than if caused by a piece of packthread being tied round it, bougies, armed with lunar caustic, an- swer very well, and so, I believe, do common bougies, "to which the general preference ought perhaps, to be given. For eases, also, in which