320 cataract. operator, without increasing 'the pressure of the finger on the eyeball, lest the vitreous humor burst, and a great part of it be lost, and without lessening tfie pressure, lest the c ataract sink back into the eye, should introduce David’s curette into the above interspace, with its hollow surface applied against lhe back surface of the cataract, which is to be gently pushed out of the eye. In doing this, Beer owns that a small part of the vitreous humor is almost always lost, but the quantity is not at all comparable to what is lost, when the hyaloid membrane gives way before David’s curette is introduced, which can then only be passed into the eye through the protruded vitreous humor for the purpose of pushing out the cataract. Beer notices the occasional protrusion of the iris, in the third stage of the operation, more or less between the edges of the incision in the cor- nea, immediately after the exit of the cataract. Here, says Beer, the iris should be reduced with- out the least delay, and the pupil, which is com- pletely oval, made round again ; a thing, which the operator may easily perform, by applying his band flat upon the patient’s forehead, letting the latter shut his eye, rubbing the upper eyelid quickly, yet gently with the thumb, and then suddenly opening the eye, by which means, a moderate light will all at once strike it, and induce an expansion of the iris. In all patients, who have been operated upon for cataracts, the edges of the eyelids become glued together with mucus on the first night after the operation; yet, according to Beer, in indi- viduals particularly subject to copious secretions of mucus, it is not unusual for the puncta lachry- malia and lachrymal ducts to be blocked up with thickened mucus, whereby the tears are prevented from duly passing down into the nose, so that from time to time they are discharged from the inner angle of the eye, and collect under the eye- lids. In this case the patient soon begins to complain of a violent, continual, and increasing sense of pressure on the eye, and the upper eye- lid swells, unattended with any redness. Irritable persons also experience a stupefying dull bead- ach. These inconveniences may be immediately removed by clearing away the mucus with a little lukewarm milk from the inner cantlius, and let- ting a stream of clean water fall over the cheek. Care must also be taken to hinder a recurrence of the circumstance again, and to remove it, if it should happen. The inflammation, consequent to extraction, chiefly affects the iris and neighbouring textures. Beer refers its origin principally to the entrance of air into the interior of the eye; which, owing to the size of the wound, he says, is not entirely to be prevented. But, another cause is the in- troduction of different instruments into the eye, and hence, the inflammation is generally severe, when it has been necessary to remove fragments of the cataract with David’s curette, or to take away the capsule with forceps, or destroy it with the tenaculum-needle. However, Beer is of opinion, that a surgeon, who knows how to ope- rate well in every mode, will not find the inflam- mation, under these circumstances, more violent after extraction, than other methods, and there- fore, he thinks, that, when no considerable im- pediment exists, it should be preferred. Bet who considers extraction as a radical mode of r« moving a cataract, thinks, that when there are w great and insurmountable obstacles to its perforu ance, and the operator can execute it as well 4 all other methods, and with the requisite skill,! ought to be preferred. But, when he is deficit] in skill, he is himself the greatest impediment | the success of the operation. The particuli cases, in which the methods of depression an reelination are indicated, have been already splj eified, and in these, of course, extraction is n| advantageous. There are also some examples, f| Beer remarks, in which the latter oueration imjj be hazardous for a beginner, and therefore, in rt spect to such an operator by no means eligibl as in cases of bur-cataract, and capsulo-lenticutll cataracts with a cyst of purulent matter. (Bed B. 2, p. 396.) OF keratonvxis. The etymology and meaning of this term \vj be found in its place in this dictionary. Tlj operation requires the pupil to be first artificial dilated. It admits of being divided into tJ stages; first, the introduction of the neeq through the cornea and pupil as far as the cafl ract; and, secondly, the breaking of the Jens pieces, and the division and laceration of its ca sule. For these purposes, Beer prefers a coi mon, straight, spear-shaped, sharp-edged couq ing-needle to any curved one, however fine it mi be made; first, because it pierces the cornea vi; greater facility; secondly, because both a sc i cataract and the capsule can be more effectual i cut with it, a larger opening being made, throul which the aqueous humor may flow over the frai I ments of the lens, and the dissolution of the caf u ract be thus rendered more certain; whereas, wl j a curved needle, Beer says, the lens can 6nly i|y disturbed, and the capsule torn, under which cijj cumstances, inflammation and a secondary capsu! d cataract is likely to be produced. He directs tl instrument to be introduced either at the lower, 1 I at the external part of the cornea, one line anqlj half from its margin, the point being direct j obliquely towards the pupil, and the capsule i to be effectually cut by moving the extremity ! the needle laterally in various ways; and, abal. all things, it is necessary at the time of breaki j the lens piecemeal, not to let the instrument cc tinue always within tins bod}’, but, at every stro to lift it completely out of the lens and caps; and then introduce it into them again in diffe directions. As Beer observes, this method of operati must soon have been found as little adapted to cataracts, as any other mode; for, otherwise, suggestion would not have been made to prac reelination through the cornea. To this forn reelination, however, Beer adduces great obj tions ; for, he says, that, in this manner, eit the cataract cannot be properly turned, if the be duly spared; but it will continue to lie obliqu being always quite evident below the pupil, very apt to rise again from the slightest cau or it is indeed dep: essed far enough towards bottom of the eye, but, however much the p may be artificially dilated, the pupillary