LITHOTOMY. 737 cut upwards and outwards, at angles of 45° and 69° from the axis of the urethra; and that the o-orovts of Cruickshnnk, B. Bell, Desault, Mr. Cline, and most other surgeons are constructed for cutting either directly outwards, or outwards and downwards. It appears to me, that the incision, through the whole of the parts cut in lithotomy, should always be made in a straight, regular, direct manner, from the surface of the skin in the peri- neum to the termination of the wound in the urethra and bladder. In an adult subject, the external wound should commence about an inch above the anus. The impropriety of beginning it higher up has been duly insisted upon by Sharp, Bertrandi, Callisen, and every good writer on the operation. “ II ne faut couper l’uretre quc le moins, qu’on peut, parcequ’on obtient par ce moyen une meilleure voie pour penetrer dans la vessie sous Tangle du pubis. C’est avec raison que Sharp dit que l’incision de Turetre faite au dessus de cet angle est si peu utiie pour Textraction de la pierre, qu’on n’en retireroit pas plus d’avantage en le coupant pres- que dans toute sa longueur.” (Bertrandi, Traite, des Operations, p. 1&7.) And Callisen lays it down as a maxim “ Ut em partes haud sectione attingantur, qute pro calculi egressu nihil faciunt; adeoque bulbus urethrae, et hujus pars corpore spongioso circumdata intacta relin- quatur.” (Sy sterna Chirurgice Hodiernw; Pars Poster ior ; p. 655.) Extraordinary as it may seem, it is not the less true, that cutting too much of the urethra is one of the most common faults still committed by modern surgeons. The incision in the in- teguments is to be large, that is to say, at least, three inches in length in an adult subject, be- cause a free opening in the skin is not only exempt from danger, but attended with many ad- vantages, especially, those of facilitating the other steps of the operation, and preventing any future lodgment and effusion of urine. The ex- ternal wound ought to be directed towards a point, situated a very little towards the anus, from the innermost part of the tuberosity of the ischium. From the line, thus made, the in- cision should be carried inward and upward, through all the parts between it and the side of the prostate gland. Another line, extending from the inferior angle of the wound to the ter- mination of the cut in the bladder, forms the pre- cise limits, to which the depth of the incisions should reach, and no further. The great principle of making the axis of the wound as straight and direct as possible, should always be kept in view, whether the surgeon employ a common scalpel, which cuts into the bladder, from without inwards, or other instru- ments, which divide the prostate gland, and neck of the bladder, from within outwards, like the bistoire cache, beaked knives, and every kind of cutting gorget. In the latter circumstance, the only difference consists in cutting, from the blad- der and urethra, downwards and outwards to- wards a point, situated a little way more in- wardly than the tuberosity of the ischium, in- stead of carrying the incision from this point, upwards and inwards, through the side of the prostate gland and the orifice of the bladder. The following may be enumerated as important advantages of attending to the foregoing prin- ciple : 1. The wound is made in that direction, which affords the greatest room for the extraction of large stones ; and the axis of the incision being also as nearly straight as possible, the introduc- tion of forceps, and the passage of the calculus outward, are materially facilitated. That these are important advantages, I think every surgeon will allow, who knows how much the pain and danger of lithotomy depend upon the injury, which the parts suffer from the force sometimes used in the extraction of the stone, and the repeated introduction of the forceps. Chesel- den, the most successful lithotomist England ever produced, made the incision in the direction here recommended, sometimes inward and upward; sometimes outward and downward. The follow- ing remarks of another excellent surgeon merit particular attention:—“ J’ai vu plusieurs fois dans les Hospitaux de Paris, que les Chirurgiens, coupant trop en haut vers Tangle du pubis, sen- toient une grand resistance au perine, quand ils vouloient retirer le calcul avec les tenettes; on voyoit le perine se tumefier par la pression, qu’y faisoit la pierre; en ce cas, quelques operateurs plus sages abandonnoient la pierre, introduisoient de nouveau le gorgeret, et en tournant en des- sous la cannelure de celui ci, prolongeoient l’in- cision obliquement vers la tuberosite de l’os ischion ; et enfin a la faveur de cette plus grande ouverture, retiroient la pierre sans causer de dechiremens.” (Bertrandi, Traite des Opera- tions, p. 133.) Larger stones may likewise be thus extracted, without being broken, than in any other mode of making the lateral incision, as must be obvious to every practitioner, who recollects the very limited room, afforded at the upper part of the triangular space, between the arch of the pubes, the ramus of the ischium, and the neck of the bladder. This consideration cannot fail to have great weight with all surgeons, who feel duly convinced, how unsatisfactory a method it is to break a calculus, in order to get it out of the bladder. The measures necessary for the re- moval of all the fragments protract the com- pletion of the operation, and seriously increase its danger; while the continuance of a single part of the stone behind may cause a renewal of all the grievances, for the cure of which the pa- tient submitted to the operation. By these re- marks, however, I am far from meaning to say, that large calculi should not be broken : on the contrary7, my7 only wish is, that the necessity for the practice may be avoided, as much as possible, by making a free incision into the bladder, and even enlarging the opening, if necessary, as far as can be done with safety. In short, instead of breaking the stone, I prefer the practice of Mr. Martineau, of Norwich, perhaps the most suc- cessful lithotomist now living in this country7, as out of 84 patients, whom he has cut, only two have died ,• a statement highly favourable to ope- rating with a knife, and making an adequate opening. “ Should the stone be large, or there be any difficulty in the extraction, rather than use much force, while the forceps have a linn hold of the stone (says Mr. Martineau), I give the handles to an assistant, who is to draw7 them outwards and upwards, while the part form- ing the stricture is cut; which is easily done, as 3 E H