960 RE JTUM. able length of the gut, but is generally more cir- cumscribed. f he coats of the bowel become much thicker and harder, than natural. The muscular is subdivided by membranous septa, and the in- ternal coat is sometimes formed into hard, irre- gular folds. Ihe surface of the inner membrane is occasionally ulcerated, so as to form a can- cerous disease. Every vestige of the natural structure is sometimes lost, and the gut is changed into a gristly substance. The cavity of the bowel is always rendered narrow at the scir- rhous part, and is, sometimes, almost obliterated. When the passage through the gut is very much obstructed, the botyel is always a good deal en- larged just above the stoppage, or stricture, from the accumulation of the feces there. As the disease advances, adhesions form between the rectum and adjacent parts, and ulcerations pro- duce communications between them. As the disease, at first, is not very painful, it is usually not much noticed till somewhat ad- vanced. The patient is habitually costive, and usually voids his stools with a little difficulty. In time, a good deal of pain is felt in the part affected, especially at stool, after which some relief is experienced. “ As the gut continues to decrease in diameter (says Mr. Copeland), the efforts to expel the feces become more violent, and the consequent progress of the disease more rapid. The stools, which have been long evacu- ated with difficulty, become contracted in size, appearing like earth-worms in their form, or small pelletsand, if the finger be intro- duced into the rectum, “ the gut will be found either obstructed with small tubercles, or intersected with membranous filaments ; or else the introduction of the finger will be opposed by a hard ring of a cartilaginous feel, composed of the diseased inner membrane of the intestines.” These states, as Mr. Copeland observes, are very different from the regular tumor, on the ante- rior part of the rectum, occasioned by an en- largement of the prostate gland ; a case apt to be suspected. As the disease advances (says the same author), the feces become more fluid, end there is a thin sanious discharge from the anus, accompanied with tenesmus.” According to Desault, pus and blood may sometimes be no- ticed with the excrement, particularly when the disease has advanced to the ulcerated state. The patient at length becomes sallow’, frequent eructations of air from the bowels, as Mr. Cope- land observes, torment the patient, and render his life miserable; the constitution suffers, and dissolution follows. Severe tenesmus attends the whole course of the disease. (CEuvrcs Chir. par Bichat, T. 2.) Sometimes a small fistulous orifice at the verge of the anus communicates with the infe- rior portion of the diseased part. Such a fistula, in a case recorded by Sir Everard Home, was half an inch in length. (Ohs. on Cancer, p. 133.) Desault has often seen the disease form a communication between the rectum and vagina, and the feces passed through the latter part. In the latter stage of the affliction, the rectum, bladder, vagina, uterus, and adjacent parts, are im.nltfrjrl tv, niltt nntllllinil llloeiUtlOll. state, it is probably always incurable. Palli- atives can only now be resorted to, such as ano- dyne and emollient glysters, the warm-bath, &c. with the exhibition of medicines like opium, cicuta, uva ursi, &c. Claudinus applied his re- medies to the inside of the bowel, by means of tents, and did not employ the latter as a mode of curing the disease when less advanced. Val- salva introduced a cannula, pierced with numerous holes, and then made his patient get into a bath, so as to let the fluid enter the intestine. Nu- merous practitioners, among v’hom is Morgagni, made mercurials the base of their treatment, from a supposition that the complaint was of ve- nereal origin. I believe the latter opinion is, at present, entirely abandoned by all the most ju- dicious surgeons in England, and this, whether mercury ever prove useful or not. When the disease is not attended with ulce- ration, the contraction and thickening of the gut may be diminished by introducing bougies, keep- ing them for a certain time, every day, so in- troduced, and increasing their size graduallv. The pressure of these instruments seems to less- en the disease, and stop its progress; a proof that its nature differs from that of a common malignant scirrhus. Desault used to employ long tents, made of lint, smeared with cerate, and passed into the bowrel by means of a probe, with a forked end. Their size was graduallv increased, so as to keep up the compression, to which, it was conceived, all the good was owing. Their length was also augmented, by degrees. At first, fresh ones were introduced twice a day. When any hardnesses were situated on the out- side of the anus, Desault cured them on the same principle, viz. by making pressure on them /with compresses and a bandage. In this man- ner he effected the cure of a scirrho-contracted rectum. The patient was taught to pass occa- sionally the tents, without assistance, in order to prevent a relapse. Instead of tents, modern surgeons employ bougids for the dilatation of strictures in the rec- tum. When from habitual costiveness, the al- tered figure of the stools, and other circum- stances, there is reason to suspect organic ob- struction to the passage of the feces, and this suspicion' is confirmed by an examination of the rectum with the finger, “ the first object of the surgeon (says Mr. Copeland) should be an enlargement of the obstructed part, by the in- troduction of a bougie. This should be of such a size, as to .pass when well lubricated with oil, without much difficulty or pain. Sometimes, when the disease has been of long continuance, it will be necessary to begin even with a large sized urethra bougie, or one of the same size as those which are made for a stricture of the oeso- phagus, and of a length that is likely to pass be- yond the end of the stricture, that is, about six, or seven, or eight inches. But I think it of consequence to use a bougie at first, which is rather too small than too large.” (P. 29.) When it has remained for half an hour, or more, it is to be removed, and passed again the next day, the same sized bougie being continued a for several days. In the introduction ot the bourne. Mr. Copeland cautions the practitioner !' i r j I; .