142 ANEURISM. OF THE rorUTEAT. ANEURISM, AND OPERATION FOR ITS CURE. Notwithstanding the solitary example in which 1\I. A. Severinus, early in the I7tli century, tied the femoral artery near Poupart’s ligament in a case of aneurism, (Re Effiaic. Med. Lib. 1, p. 2. e. 51,) the practice of tying arteries, wounded either by accident or in the performance of sur- gical operations, and even the plan of tying the humeral artery for the cure of the aneurism at the bend of the arm, were known long before the operation for the relief of the popliteal aneu- rism was attempted. The considerable size of the femoral artery ; its deep situation, the urgent symptoms of the disease, and ignorance of the resources of nature for transmitting blood into the limb, after the ligature of the vessel, are the circumstances, which appear to have deterred former surgeons from this operation. Valsalva treated popliteal aneurisms on the debilitating method, and published one or two equivocal proofs of its success. In Pelletan’s first memoir on aneurism, and in the third vol of Sabatier’s Medecine Operatoire, as I shall hereafter notice again, are two cases of axillary- aneurisms, which were cured by Valsalva’s treat- ment. But, encouraging as such examples may be, experience is not yet sufficiently favourable to this practice to allow it to bear a comparison, in point of efficacy, with the surgical operation, or to justify the general rejection of this last more certain means of cure. As Pelletan admits, Valsalva’s treatment is extremely se- vere; the event of it doubtful; and should the plan fail, the patient might not be left in a con- dition to bear an operation, for the success of which it seems necessary-, that a certain strength of vascular action should exist, in order that the blood may be freely transmitted through such arterial branches, as are to supply the places of the main trunk, after this last has been tied. The time, therefore, has not yet arrived, when surgical operations for the relief of aneurisms should be relinquished. (Pelletan, Clinique Chirurgietde, T. I,p. 111.) The cure of popliteal aneurisms by- means of compression is occasionally effected; but, it happens too seldom to claim a great deal of confidence, or to lessen in any material degree the utility and importance of operative surgery in this part of practice. Pelletan records the cure of one popliteal aneurism by compression and absolute repose, during eleven months (T. 1. p. 115),) Boyer relates two instances (Traitddes Mill. Cliir. p. 204, T. 2), one is mentioned by Richerand (Dir', dcs Sciences Med. T. 2, p. 96); the practice of Dubois is said to have furnished several examples of the same success (Vol. cit. p. 97); and a case, in which Dupuytren effected a cure by compressing the femoral artery by means of an instrument applied just above the place where the vessel perforates the tendon of the triceps muscle, is detailed by- Breschet. (Fr. TronsL nf M'\ Hodgson's Work, I. 1, p 249, <V0 The circumstances, under which the employ- ment of compression affords the best chance of success, have been already mentioned, as well as the prudence of assisting this plan with perfect quietude, venesection, spare diet, and cold as- tringent applications, especially ice, which was first recommended by Donald Monro, and hajs subsequently been most highly praised by Guerin. Aneurisms in general, and, among them, the popliteal case, are all attended with some little chance of a spontaneous cure; yet this desirable event is too uncommon to be a judicious reason for postponing the operation, especially, as it is the usual course of the disease to continue to in- crease; while in the early stage the cure may- be more speedily accomplished. In fact, the ex- perience of modern operators leaves no room for apprehending, that the anastomoses will not suffice for the due nourishment of the leg, and consequently, proves, that waiting beyond a cer- tain time for the enlargement of the collateral vessels to take place is altogether an unne- cessary and disadvantageous method. Popliteal aneurisms, as well as other external tumors of the same nature, stand the best chance of a spontaneous cure, when any- cause induces a ge- neral, violent, and deep inflammation all over the swelling; for, then the communication be- tween the sac and artery is likely- to be- come closed with coagulating lymph, and the pulsation of the tumor to be suddenly- and per- manently- stopped. If, in this state, the disease sloughs, and the patient’s constitution holds out, the coagulated blood in the sac and the sloughs, are gradually detached, leaving a deep ulcer, which ultimately- heals, An example, in which a popliteal aneurism was cured by- such a pro- cess, is related in the Trans, of a Society fir the Improvement of Med. and Chirui gicul Knowledge, Vol. 2, p. 2f!8. In former times, when all hopes of curing a popliteal aneurism by Valsalva’s method, by compression, or a natural process, were at an end, amputation of the limb was considered as the sole and necessary- means of saving the pa- tient’s life. But, about fifty y-ears ago, the con- fidence of surgeons in the sufficiency of the anastomosing vessels or the continuance of the circulation began to increase, and, in opposition to the tenets of J. L. Petit and Pott, experience soon proven, that, in general, not only might the patient’s life be saved, but his limb also, and this without any operation, that could be compared with amputation, in regard to severity. On look- ing back to the history of amputation, we shall find, that A. N. Guenault was one of the earliest writers, who disapproved of amputation, as not truly indispensable for the cure of popliteal aneu- rism. It is alleged, that Teislere, Molinelli, Guat- tani, Mazotti, and some other celebrated Italian surgeons, were the first, who ventured to tie the popliteal artery for the cure of aneurism. The path, as Pelletan remarks, had been pointed out to them by Winslow and Haller, whose valuable descriptions and plates of the arterial anasto- moses about the knee joint, shewed by what means the lower part of the limb would be nourish- ed, after a ligature had been placed on the prin- cipal arterial trunk. For almost thirty years, however, the practice of tying the popliteal artery was confined to the Italian surgeons. Pelletan believes, that he was the first, who at- tempted such an operation at Paris nearly thirty years ago, (alluding to about the year 1780, the Clinique Chiturgicale being dated 1810.)