347 CORNEA. cornea are recorded, which were benefited by Mr. Wardrop’s operation of puncturing the cornea and discharging the aqueous humor. In the first example, there was an ulcer on the central part of the cornea, and a cluster of blood-vessels pass- ing towards it. The whole eyeball was also much inflamed. The puncture was made at the p.ace where the vessels passed. The patient’s severe head-ach was relieved, and under the use of fomentations, and the vinous tincture of opium, all the other symptoms rapidly subsided. In the second case, there were two or three erosions, with a good deal of niuddiness of the cornea, head-ach, &c. The obscurity of this membrane instantly disappeared, and the head-ach subsided, apon the aqueous humor being discharged. With die help of bleeding and fomentations, the sym- ptoms abated, the ulcer healed in a few day's, and he eye recovered. (See Med. Chir. Trans. >1. 4,)). —187.) In superficial ulcers of the cornea, attended vith much inflammation of the conjunctiva, Mr. I’ravers recommends opium, combined so as to ■perate upon the skin, and keeping the bowels veil open! Here he differs from Scarpa, in spe- ifying the use of the nitrate of silver, as the est local treatment. Warm fomentations, he ays, afford temporary relief, and where the in- animation-of the sclerotica is intense, he advises s ie exhibition of mercury. (Syopsis of the Dis- ises >f the Eye, p. 278.) With regard to the treatment of indolent, and jep sloughing ulcers of the cornea, Mr. Travers •aises, in addition to the employment of the trate of silver, the occasional use of leeches, id the administration of tonics and sedatives. The same author has also noticed chronic in- rstitial ulcers, where the cornea is transparent, but indented, like a bonce, when struck upon marble hearth, or pitted, according as the cers are diffused, or circumscribed.” These e said to succeed acute inflammation, when rge quantities of blood have been lost, and to cur frequently in children imperfectly nou- died. or in adults, who are very debilitated, 'ith the aid of good diet, tonics, and moderate pical stimulants, like the vinum opii, or the sc collyrium, they become hazy, which de- tes the commencement of the adhesive inflam- ition. (Up. cit. p. 117*) OSSIFICATION OF TIIE CORNEA. Mr. Wardrop has seen only' one instance of iification of the cornea ; and, in that case, the ole eye was changed in its form, and the cor- t had become opaque. On macerating the lat- part, a piece of bone, weighing two grains, ll-shaped, hard, and with a smooth surface, s found between its lamellae. A piece of ie was also found between the choroid coat 1 retina. The same gentleman informs us, that Walter l, in his museum, a piece of cornea, taken m a man sixty years of age, containing a bony »s, which was three lines long, two broad, and ghed two grains. In Mr. VVardrop’s publication, there is also nrded a curious case, in which a portion of if was formed, either in the substance of the cornea, or immediately behind it, and which was extracted from the eye by Mr. Anderson, sur- geon at Inverary. The patient was a woman thirty'-one years of age, and the formation of the bony substance, which was about half as large as a sixpence, is said to have been occasioned by' a fall against the root of a tree, fifteen years before the operation, by which accident the eye was struck, though not cut. (See Wardrop's Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vo/. 1, chap. 10.) ALTERATION IN THE FORM OF THE CORNEA. This is the last subject which I shall take _ notice of in the present article. It is well known, that the convexity of the cornea varies in dif- ferent persons, and in the same individual at different periods of life, this part of the eye being naturally most convex in young subjects. It appears, also, from the experiments of the late Mr. Ramsden, and those of Sir E. Home, that the sphericity of the cornea is altered according to the distance, at which objects are viewed. Sometimes the cornea projects, or collapses, so considerably, without its transparency being affected, that sight is much impaired, or quite destroyed. The first case has been called by some authors, the Staphyloma pellucidum ; the second Rhytidnsir. Leveille, the French translator of Scarpa’s book on the diseases of the eye, has described a case, in which the cornea of both eyes became of a conical form. Mr. Wardrop met with two examples of a similar disease; but only one eye was affected in each of them. In both cases, the conical figure of the cornea was very remarkable, and the apex in the cone was in the centre of the cornea. When the ey'e was viewed laterally, the apex resembled a piece of solid crystal, and when looked at directly opposite, it had a trans- parent sparkling appearance, which prevented the pupil and iris from being distinctly seen. One of these cases occurred in a lady upwards of thirty years of age, and the changes produced in her vision were very remarkable. At the dis- tance of an inch, or an inch and a half, she could plainly distinguish small objects, when held to- wards the temporal angle of the eye, although it required considerable exertion ; but, the sphere of vision was very limited. On looking through a small hole in a card, she could distinguish objects held very close to the eye, and could even read a book. At any distance greater than two inches, vision was very indistinct; and, at a few feet, she could neither judge of the distance, nor the form of the object. When she looked at a distant luminous body, such as a candle, it was multiplied five or six times, and all the images were more or less in- distinct. She could never find any glass suf- ficiently concave to assist her vision. She did not remark this complaint in her eye, until she was about sixteen years of age, and she does not think it has undergone any change since that time. In Mr. Wardrop’s publication may be read a letter from Dr. Brewster, giving an explanation of the phenomena of the foregoing case.