ULCERS. 1072 application, and .solutions of vitriol and alum have been recommended. When indolent ulcers are not attended with certain peculiarities, a solution of the argentum nitratum is one of the best of the watery ap- plications. It stimulates the granulations, and makes them put on a more healthy appearance, and its strength may be increased according to circumstances. An ulcer, which at first cannot bear this solution above a certain strength, with- out pain, and without the granulations being absorbed, becomes able, after the application has been used, about ten days, or a fortnight, to bear it twice as strong, without such effects being produced : a proof of the granulations having acquired strength. The tincture of myrrh is' often employed as an application to indolent ulcers. Hunezowsky has praised a decoction of the walnut-tree leaves, and soft covering of the walnut, for the same purpose. (Acta Acad. Hied. Chir. Vindob. T. 1, 1788.) Sir E. Home gives his testimony in favour of both the latter dressings. Diluted sulphuric acid, and the expressed juice of the pod of different species of pepper in a recent state, are mentioned by SirE. Koine as having been used as applications to indolent ulcers : the latter one in the West Indies. This gentleman recommends also a scruple of nitrous acid, mixed with eight ounces of water, as a very useful medicine for external use. The strength must be increased or diminished, ac- cording to circumstances. Sir E. Home has found, that this application promotes, in a very uncommon manner, the progress of the cure. The first application of diluted nitrous acid gives a good deal of pain, which lasts about half an hour, and then goes off. When an indolent ulcer heals with the diluted nitrous acid, the process of skinning is accom- plished with more rapidity, than when other ap- plications are employed; and the new skin is said to be more completely formed. The acid coagulates the pus as soon as it is secreted. Sir E. Home states, that several patients, who had ulcers dressed with the diluted nitrous acid, were allowed to walk about, without finding the progress of the cure retarded, although no bandage to support the limb was made use of, This gentleman informs us, also, that, in ulcers of the leg, attended with an exposure of a piece of bone, which retards the cure, because it does not exfoliate, and come away, the application of diluted nitrous acid to the bone removes the earthy part, and excites the absorbents to act upon the remaining animal portion. 3. The only application, in the form of powder, adapted to indolent ulcers, is, according to Sir E. Home, the hydrargyrus nitratus ruber. It may be occasionally used for ulcers of the most indolent kind. 4. Ointments are represented as being par- ticularly good applications for indolent sores. The idea of the air having bad effects on sores, which are exposed to it, is now disbelieved. That air has no irritating property of this kind, is proved by the fact, that, when the abdomen of an animal is filled with it, no inflammation is excited. When the cellular membrane is loaded with it, in cases of emphysema, the parts do not afterwards inflame. Nor do ulcers in the throat, as Sir E. Home justly remarks, heal less favourably than others, although they are of necessity always exposed to the air. Whatever ill effects arise, may probably be explained by the consequences of evaporation, which converts the soft pus into a scab. The granulations are, in all probability, most favour- ably circumstanced, when they are covered with their own matter, which should only be now and then removed, in order that such applications may be made, as wiil stimulate them to secrete a more perfect pus. From what has been just stated, it must be obvious, that indolent ulcers should not be frequently dressed, and, that if they are so, and the dressings are stimulating, the practice will do harm. Changing the dress- ings once in twenty-four hours is deemed quite sufficient, unless the quantity of matter be very great, which seldom happens. One part of the unguentum hydrargyri nitrati mixed with three of hog’s lard, is one of the best applications. Its strength, however, must be increased after being used, for some time, as a dressing for the same ulcer. The unguentum hydrargyri nitrati has the effect of quickly removing the thickness of the edges of indolent ulcers, and the surrounding dark red colour of the skin. It seems also to have particularly great power in making the granulations become small and healthy, and, of course, the ulcer less likely to break out again. With some ulcers, however, this ointment is found to disagree. The unguentum resinse Havre, and the un- guentum elemi, mixed with the balsam of tur- pentine, or that of copaiba, are oilier common, applications to indolent sores. Sir E. Home " states, that the resins and turpentines are not so powerful, as the acids and metallic salts, in giving the granulations a healthy appearance, and a dis- position to resist being absorbed. Cases, attended with a degree of indolent thickening, are such as are most likely to be improved, by’ camphorated ointments. In numerous cases, the applications, whatever they are, soon lose their effect, and others should then be substituted for them. The past and present states of the sore are always to be con- sidered. Although the ulcer may be in its na- ture indolent, it is liable to temporary changes, from constitutional causes, and hence, a tcin? porary alteration in the treatment becomes proper. 5. Bandages are undoubtedly’ of the mo essential service in healing many kinds of ulcer but, their efficacy is so great in curing numerou indolent sores, that they are sometimes considcro the principal means of cure. But, among modern advocates for rollers Mr. Whately is one of the most zealous. While this gentleman acknow- ledges, that the efficacy’ of pressure in counter- acting the effects of the dependent posture, vms known to Wiseman, who recommended the use of the laced stocking for this purpose, he con- ceives, that the effects of pressure, in the cure o* ulcers on the extremities, previously, to the ap- pearance of Dr. Underwood’s treatise, were not duly insisted upon by’ surgical writers. However, he confesses, that there always have been prac- titioners, who were acquainted with the un-