6B0 HYDROPHOBIA. to account for the fact, by the more copious he- morrhage from larger wounds, and the frequent neglect of lesser injuries. Perhaps, another rea- son is, that, the virus is more likely to be.con- fined in a wound with a small 'orifice, than in one, which is ample and admits of being more effectually washed. The more numerous the wounds are, the greater is the risk. If it be inquired, what is the average number of persons attacked with rabies out of a given number, who have received bites ? The question can only be answered by referring to the extremes. Thus, Dr. J. Vaughan speaks of between twenty and thirty individuals, bit by a mad dog, of whom only one was afterwards attacked with rabies; and Dr. J. Hunter tells us of an instance, in which out of twenty-one persons hit, only one became affected. (See also Fothergill in Med. Obs. and Inq. Vol. 5, p. 195.) On the other hand, out of fifteen persons, bit by a mad dog, and taken care of at Senlis, three at least were seized with the disorder, [Hist, de la Soc. Roy. de Med. p. 130;) of seventeen others, bit by a wolf, ten were attacked ; (ib. •p. 130); and of twenty-three, bit by a she-wolf, thirteen died of rabies. (/,. F. Trolliet, Nouveau Traite de la Rage, fyc. Obs. Chirurgique, S(C. No. 25.) Two important facts should always be re- collected ; viz. the disease may often be pre- vented; it can hardly ever be cured. Expe- rience has fully proved, that when hydrophobia once begins, it generally pursues its dreadful course to a fatal termination, the records of me- dicine furnishing very few unequivocal, and well authenticated, cases to the contrary. Hence, the imperious necessity of using every possible means for the prevention of the disorder. Probably, however, many things which possess the character of being preventive of hydrophobia, have no real claim to such reputation. I would extend this observation to all internal medicines, mercurial frictions, and plunging the patient for a considerable time under water. The instances, in which a prevention is in- ferred to have taken place by different writers, in consequence of such means,, may all be very rationally ascribed to other circumstances. Facts already cited sufficiently prove that, out of the great number of persons, frequently bitten by the same dog, only a limited proportion is commonly affected. The hydrophobic poison is known to reside in the saliva of the animal; consequently, the chance of being affected must greatly depend upon the quantity of this fluid which is insinuated into the wound; and, if the teeth of the animal should have previously pierced a thick boot, or other clothing, before entering the skin, the danger must obviously be much diminished. Many patients wash and suck the wound, im- mediately after its occurrence, and thus, no doubt, very often get rid of the poison. Even when it is lodged in the wound, it may not be directly absorbed, but be thrown off with the dis- charge. All prudent patients submit to excision of the bitten part. Now, under each of the above circumstances, escapes have frequently occurred, while internal medicines, half drowning or sa- livating the patients, had also not been neglected, so that all the efficacy of preventives has too often been most unjustly ascribed to means, which probably never yet had, and never will have, any beneficial effect whatever. What con- firms the truth of the preceding statement is these facts; that persons bitten by the same animal have sometimes been treated exactly on the same plan; some of them escaped the dis- ease; others had it, and of course, perished: on other occasions, some of the patients, bitten by the same animal, have been treated in a particular way, and have escaped hydrophobia; while others bitten at the same time by the animal, also never had any constitutional effects, although they took no medicines, nor followed any other particular plan. If to these reflections be added the considera- tion, that it is frequently doubtful, whether the bite has actually been inflicted by a truly rabid animal, and that the mental alarm will sometimes bring on a symptomatic hydrophobia, it is easily conceivable, how mistaken a person may be, who believes, that he has prevented the disorder, and how unmerited is the reputation of the means, which he has employed for the purpose. The bite of a naturally ferocious beast has often been thought to be attended with more risk, than that of an animal, naturally tarne; and hence the bite of a wolf is said to be more frequently followed by rabies, than that of a dog. This proposition is admitted to be true; but, the explanation is erroneous. The true reason of the difference is, that a wolf usually seizes the face, and inflicts a deeper bite; while a dog only snaps as he runs along, and mostly bites through the clothes. (See Diet, d-cs Sciences, Med. T. 47, p. 88.) The bite of a rabid animal may be rendered much more dangerous by being situated near a part, or an organ, which increases the difficulty, or risk, of adopting an effectual mode of removing the whole of the flesh, in which the virus may be lodged. Thus, bites near the large arteries, the eyes, the joints, &c. are of a more serious description, than others. Dr. J. Hunter rated the hazard in some degree by the vascularity of the bitten parts. The prog- nosis will always be more unfavourable, when no proper measures have been applied to the bite soon after its infliction, and perhaps the risk may be increased by certain causes not having been duly avoided, which, as already stated, are thought to have a tendency to accelerate the attack of rabies. The exact time after a bite, when the prevention of rabies is no longer practicable, is quite an undetermined point; but every fact, known upon the subject, evinces in an urgent manner the necessity of adopting preservative measures without the least delay. In almost all the dissections of patients, who have died of rabies, certain indications of in- flammation have been perceptible; more fre- quently, in some part of the space between the pharynx and the cardiac orifice of the stomach, in the stomach itself, in the lungs, the choroid plexus, and membranes of the brain. (See Med. Repository, Vol. 3, p. 51.) M. Trolliet opened with the greatest care six bodies of persons, de- stroyed by this disease. The mouth and fauces in each subject were first examined, and found of a pale greyish colour scarcely lubricated with mucus, and quite free from all frothy matter. All the salivary glands seemed perfectly healthy. When the larynx, trachea, and bronchia: were opened, they appeared to have been the seat of inflammation, the traces of which were the most