66’8 HYDE cannula. The patient usually feels some pain in the groin, and about the kidneys, on the in- jection being introduced: which symptoms are rather desirable, as they evince, that the stimu- lus ot the fluid is likely to have the wished for ellect of exciting the necessary degree of inflam- mation. This plan, which was brought to a high pitch of perfection by the late Sir James Earle, maybe deemed almost an infallible means of obtaining a permanent cure; and being, at the same time, mild, is mostly preferred in England, France, and Germany. The treatment after the operation is exactly like that of the common swelled testicle (see Hern ia Humoralis), consisting of the use of fomentations, poultices, leeches, saline purges, and, above all, of a bag truss for keeping up the scrotum. There is a particular case, that has been called the congenital hydrocele, by which is implied a collection of water in the tunica vaginalis, with a communication between the cavity of this mem- brane and that of the peritonaeum. Desault used to cure this disease by a red wine injection. After the protruded viscera had been returned into the belly, and while the opening between that and the inside of the tunica vaginalis was care- fully compressed and closed by a trust}' assistant, Desault, after letting out the water in the com- mon way, used to throw in the injection. The method, it is said, succeeded, without causing the perilous consequence, one might d priori expect, viz. inflammation of the peritonaeum. This kind of hydrocele has not been described by many writers. The case is easily distin- guished by the fluid being capable of being pushed into the belly. According to Desault, this disease admits of a cure by injections, care being first taken to press the upper part of the cord, so as to keep the injection from coming into contact with the peritonaeum. A successful instance of this practice is related, by which a boy was cured both of a congenital hydrocele and hernia. The patient was nine years old, and had in his scrotum, ever since he was born, a fluctuating semi-transparent tumor, which was free from pain, of the size of a large egg, and disappeared when compressed, and in a horizontal posture. (See (Euvrcs Chir. de Desault, T. 2, p. 442.) This subject of congenital hydrocele has been more particularly considered in my other work. One caution it is necessary to offer, before taking our leave of this subject; it has some- times happened, during the operation, that the cannula has slipped out of the tunica vaginalis, and its inner mouth become situated in the substance of the scrotum, in which event the operator, if he persists in propelling in the injection, will fill the cellular texture of the part with a stimulating fluid, which may cause slough- ing, and other unpleasant symptoms, without en- tenng the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, or pro- ducing a radical cure of the hydrocele, which, however, I have known happen from this cause, as I have elsewhere related. (See J'iist Lines of Surgery, Vol. 2.) When such an accident happens, it is better to defer the operation, till a sufficient quantitv of fluid has collected again. Hydroceles have been cured by applying to the scrotum a solution of muriate ol ammonia in OCELE. vinegar and water. (Keute.) But, the appli- cation frequently creates a good deal of pain and irritation, and docs not often succeed, to say the best of it. (jEarle.) Distending the tunica vaginalis with air, cold water, or even the fluid discharged, has sometimes effected a radical cure. (See Sup- plement to Ploucquci, Tub. 13 14, p. 103.) For many other important remarks, concern- ing hydroceles, I am obliged to refer to the 2d vol. of the last edition of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, 1820. Monro on the Tumors of the Scrotum in the Edvnb. Med. Essays, Vol. 5. John Douglas, A Treatise on Hydrocele, 8vo. Lmnl. 1755 ; and Answer to Remarks on that Work, 8vo. Land. 1758. Pott on the Hydrocele ; Else on the Hydro- cele, Pjvo. Loud. 1776; and the Works of Joseph Else, 8vo. Land. 1782. W. Dcasc, on the Different Kinds of Hydrocele, 8vo. London, 1798. Kcatc ; B. Bell, on Hydro- cele, Sarcocele, fyc. 8vo. Edinb. 1794. Sir James Earle, Treatise on the Hydrocele, 2d Ed. 8vo. Lond. 1803. Schreger Chirur- gisches Versuche, B. 1, 8vo. Numbcrg, 1811 ; a cure effected by the injection of air, p. 306. Bertrandi, in Mem. de VAcad, de Chir. T.3; and in Trattato delle Opcrazioni di Chirurgia, Nizza, 1763. Desault, Remarques, Sfc. sur diverses cspeces d'Hydrocele. CEuvrcs Chir. T. 2. S. Sharp's Treatise on the Operations, and his Critical Enquiry. J. Howard, Obs. on the Method of Curing the Hydrocele by Means of a Seton, 8vo. Lond. 1783. Saba- tier, Medceine Ope.rat.oirc, T. 1, Ed. 2. Scarpa, Traite des Hernies, p. 64, fye. Lar- rcy, Memoircs de Chir. Militaire, T. 3, p, 409, S)C. T. Ramsden, Practical Observa- tions on the Sclcrocelc, S[C. 8 vo. Lond. 1811. W. Wadd, Cases of Diseased Bladder and Testicle, 4to. Lond. 1815. Kinder Wood, some Observations on the Cure of the Hydro- cele of the Tunica Vaginalis, without procur- ing an Obliteration of the Sac, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 9, p. 38, 8vo. Lond. 1818. HYDROPHOBIA (from -Jiuip, water, and <po£o;, fear. A dread of water.) This being, for the most part, a striking symptom of the fatal indisposition which results from the bite of a mad dog, and some other animals affected in the same way, the disease itself has been named Hydrophobia. Some have used the more ge- neral term, hygrophobia, from '-JyAv, liquid. But strong objection has been made to both these terms, because derived from a symptom, which does not exclusively belong to the disease, nor constantly exist in it. The old writers, as we learn from Caelius Aurelianus, used the terms aerophobia, or a dread of air, and pantophobia, or a fear of all things, since the impression of cold air some- times excites terror, and the disorder is maiked by a singular degree of general timidity and dis- trust. Others called itphobodipson sig- nifying thirst,) because the patient is thirsty, yet fears to drink. Several modern authors, however, objecting to any appellation expressive only of one symptom, denominate the disease rabies, and rabies, canine, or canine madness. The French call it la rage. With respect to hydrophobia, or the dreadful