AMAUROSIS. 'll its circumference be enlarged, nor any tendency to exoplithalmia be really present. Nor is it very uncommon to find the affected eye preternaturally hard, soft, or even quite flaccid; but it is less common to find the dimensions of the globe of the eye increased, or the organ affected with atrophy. (Beer, Vol. cit. p, 438.) The principal subjective morbid effects, which appertain to amaurosis, have been already de- scribed in speaking of the several defects of vision, which accompany an amaurotic weakness of sight. Besides these, however, there are other subjective symptoms, which merit attention. For instance, the patient feels in the eye and sur- rounding parts an irksome sensation, without any actual pain, and complains of a remarkable sense of fulness, or weight in the organ. Amau- rotic patients are also frequently attacked with sudden violent giddiness, which usually ends in a considerable diminution of the eyesight, andsome- times in severe general headach. Occasionally, they fancy, that small atoms of dust are lodged under the eyelids, and are fearful of moving either these parts or the eye. It is also well known, that many persons become amaurotic, while labouring under severe hemierania, which either extend from or to the diseased eye; while, on other occasions, the most violent pains are confined particularly to the region of the eye- brow, and have the appearance of being strictly periodical. In certain other cases, the pain is wandering, and shoots in ever}' direction about the eyebrow. These painful feelings often pre- cede the amaurotic blindness a considerable time, and often first take place when one or both eyes are already blind; but the pains and loss of sight are not unfrequently produced together. Lastly, some patients are met with, in whom the worst pains only last until the amaurosis is perfectly formed, when they gradually and permanently cease. In all these painful cases of amaurosis, the pain and the blindness chiefly depend upon the same cause, and one is seldom the occasion of the other. Sometimes,amaurotic patients ex- perience such violent pain, that they lose their senses, and grow delirious; but, in these cases, if we can credit the assertion of Beer, important morbid changes in the bones of the skull, or the brain itself, are invariably noticed after death. (See Lelire von den Augenkr. B. “2, p. 439.) In some amaurotic patients, lethargic symptoms may be remarked ; in others restlessness; and, more rarely, delirium in all its degrees, either as a transient, or permanent affection. Paralytic appearances may precede amaurosis, either in the vicinity of the eye, or in the muscles of the face, or, in a distant situation, as the ex- tremities. Sometimes they accompany the dis- ease, and sometimes closely follow the amaurotic amblyopia, such a case of amaurosis being not •infrequently the forerunner of a fatal attack of apoplexy. In the same way, convulsive symptoms may be conjoined with amaurosis, and when they first occur in the complete stage of the latter disease, ccr pronounces them a very unfavourable omen tor the patient’s life. But, according to the same experienced oculist, ^ 'cn in a ease ol perfect amaurosis, several of ‘ , 0,l,' r external senses are aflected; and lastly, * eti the internal senses begin to.suffer, when for instance the hearing, and then the smell, and taste are lost, and afterwards the memory and other intellectual powers fail, the patient’s speedy dis- solution may be expected. (See Lehre von den Augenkrankli. B. 2, p. 441, llrien, 1817.) As Professor Beer correctly observes, age cannot be considered a predisposing cause of amaurosis, as it is of cataract; for there are many more blind persons, who have been deprived of their sight by amaurosis in their best days, than of old persons thus attacked. Amaurosis spares no age—not even the newborn infant. Neither does sex nor race appear to have any influence over the origin of the complaint; but it would seem that dark eyes, especially those which are called black, are more disposed to amaurotic blindness than such as are light co- loured. According to Beer’s experience, for every grey or blue eye affected with amaurosis, there are five and twenty or thirty brown or black ones, thus diseased. In the peculiar constitution of the eye, then, as well as in a sanguineous and choleric temperament, there exists a tendency to the disorder. More frequently, than cataract, amaurosis is found to be a true hereditary disease:—this is so much the case, that most of the members of a family, for more than one generation, may lose their sight from amaurosis at a certain period of life. Beer says, that he is acquainted with more than one family, in which this has happened, and, what merits attention, the women of one of these families, down to the third generation, became completely and permanently blind from amaurosis on the cessation of the menses, while all the others, who had had children, were unaffected. But the males of this unfortunate family, who, as well as the females, have very dark brown eyes, all seem to be weak-sighted, though none of them are yet blind. (Lelire von den Augen- krankheiten, B. 2. p. 443.) In women, especially those with black eyes, the time when the menses stop is a dangerous period for the commencement of amaurosis, particularly that form of it, which Beer chooses to denomi- nate gouty. According to the same writer, patients, whose piles used to bleed periodically for a long time, but are now suddenly stopped, and whose eyes are dark, are often attacked with amaurosis. One of the less common causes of amaurosis is an idiosyncrasy in relation to this or that sort of nutriment or medicine, or this or that particular state of the body. Here is to be reckoned the amaurotic weakness of sight, or the perfect amau- rosis, which comes on at the very commencement of pregnancy, and subsides after delivery, but al- ways attended with dyspepsia and insuperable vo- miting. This species of amaurosis,however, should be carefully distinguished from that, which >ome- tiines first originates in the final months of preg- nancy, and chiefly from strong and long conti- nued determination of blood to the head and eyes, particularly when the bowels are at the same time loaded, and the patient constipated. This latter case usually continues till after delivery; or, if the labour be tedious, difficult, and attended with considerable efforts, the blindness may first attain its complete form at the time of delivery, and not afterwards subside. Beer saw a young Jewess, who, at the very