986 STAPHYLOMA. cornea, which they in time distend in all its dimensions, so as to make it project beyond the eyelids, at the same time rendering it thinner in a ratio to its bulk and magnitude. Scarpa has never met with a voluminous staphyloma, project- ing beyond the eyelids in adult persons, which had not originally made its first appearance in infancy ; and he has invariably found, that the thickness, and density of the'cornea, both in the living, and dead bodies of those, who have been affected with this disease, were in an in- verse ratio to the eye. In inveterate cases of staphyloma, forming a large protuberance be- yond the eyelids, the iris may here and there be clearly discerned through the diseased cornea, and, if it be not equally manifest at all points of the tumor, it is because the conjunctiva ex- ternally spread over the cornea forms, in con- junction with its varicose vessels, on the surface of the tumor, a stratum of matter, not every where equally dense, and opaque. This dense stratum of the conjunctiva, spread over the cornea, easily causes deception in a staphyloma of considerable bulk. The more the tumor in- creases, the more the substance of the cornea seems to become dense and thickened; while, in reality, the contrary happens; for the augmenta- tion in the density of the layer of the conjunctiva, covering the cornea, only partly supplies the diminution in the thickness of the latter mem- brane. In staphyloma, as Mr. Wardrop ob- serves, <c the pupil is hid according to the situa- tion and degree of the opacity of the cornea; but, in most cases, it is altogether obliterated, and even in those, where a transparent portion of the cornea is opposite to it, the vision is much impaired; for, as the eye has lost its formas an optical instrument, the change in its refractive power must render objects' very indistinct.” (Morbid A nat. of the Eye, Vul. 1, p. 101.) The sclerotica is also subject to staphyloma, that is, to a partial distention, and prominence of its anterior hemisphere in the white of the eye. Scarpa never met with any tumor, or pro- minence on the front surface of the sclerotica, corresponding to the white of the eye; but in the dead subject he has met with two examples of staphyloma, in the posterior hemisphere of the sclerotica. According to Mr. Travers, in the spheroidal staphyloma of the cornea, the sclerotica sometimes yields so much as greatly to increase the deformity. “ This happens in hydropic and other degenerations of the hu- mours. It also frequently becomes extenuated, or bulged near its junction with the cornea in the amaurosis, which follows inflammation of the choroid. This protrusion, larger or smaller, is sometimes circumscribed, and, in other in- stances, diffused over a large portion of the ball. It is often seen encircling the cornea, and pre- senting a sacculated or pouched appearance. It has a bluish grey tint, dec.” (Synopsis of the Discuses of the Eye, p. 1:10 ) When in the staphyloma of the cornea, this part is affected with irremediable opacity, Scarpa thinks, that if the disease be recent, and in a child, the only object must be to hinder the in- crease of the swelling of the cornea, the organi- —i!m ,u' is nlrpndv destroved. The tumor inveterate, very large, and prominent beyond the eyelids, it is to be diminished by surgical means, so as to return within the orbit, suffi- ciently to permit the deformity of the face to be amended by the application of an artificial eye. In cases of recent staphyloma, Richter used to make at the bottom of the tumor of the cor- nea an artificial ulcer, by repeatedly applying the argentum nitratum, or the oxygenated muriate of antimony (butter of antimony), and to keep the little sore open by the continued use of the same caustic, with the view of effecting a dimi- nution of the swelling of the cornea. In this way, Richter frequently succeeded in lessening staphyloma, and, in one particular case, he even restored the transparency of the cornea. Ter repetitd operatione, quarto scilicet, septimo cl decimo die, nc vestigium quidem viorbi die decimo-quarto superubat. Obs. Chir. Fasci- culus 2. Though Scarpa has frequently attempted to cure the recent staphyloma of infants, by the abovemethod, he has never yet met with such suc- cess, as can be at all compared with Richter’s, either in restoring the transparency of the cor- nea, or accomplishing a diminution of the volume of the staphyloma. Having formed with the argentum nitratum a small ulcer, at the bottom of the cornea, and kept the sore open thirty days and more, he failed in obtaining any benefit, in respect to the diminution, much less the opacity of the cornea, in three infants, one a year and a half old, and the two others somewhat more than three, all which subjects had been recently at- tacked with staphyloma in one eye, in conse- quence of the small-pox. A violent ehemosis, in a very short time, produced a staphyloma in the eye of a child five years old. Scarpa made an ulcer at the bottom of the cornea, in the un- organized, swollen substance of which he intro- duced, for a little depth, the flat part of a lancet. Scarpa kept the sore open for five weeks, with a solution of the argentum nitratum, and he re- marked, that the staphyloma became somewhat flatter, so as to lose the acute prominence, which it had at its centre; but the cornea continued, as before, every where opaque. Though Scarpa employed the same method in two other subjects, of about the same age, and in the same circum- stances ; though he kept the ulcer open fifty days, he was never able to effect any depression or diminution of the staphyloma; and, conse- quently, the pointed, pearl-coloured projecting part of the tumor continued in the same state as it was before. The conical shape, which the cornea assumes in this disease, he observes, is a characteristic symptom by which a staphyloma maybe distinguished from a leucoma, with total opacity of the cornea. If, also, in the course of further trials, prtial benefit be found to accrue from this plan, adopted not for the purpose of re-establishing the transparency of the cornea, but for that of merely checking, and diminishing the recent staphyloma in infants, still Scarpa is of opinion, that no one » will be easily persuaded, that the same treatment can ever prove of the least service in diminish- ing the size of the large, inveterate, staphyloma in adults ; in other words, of that which projects