CANCER. 273 : Ir. J. Burns has seen it distinctly marked, and ttended with a fatal event, in children of five ears old : he mentions two instances of the eye »imr affected in such subjects, though from the te observations of Mr. Wardrop, we may now tasonably suspect, that these examples were ■ally cases of the fungus hmmatodes. An in- ance, in which a cancerous disease of the breast gan at the age of fifteen, is related by Sir E. ome. (Obs. on Cancer, ij'c. p. 50.) TREATMENT OF CANCER. i Cancers have sometimes been supposed to be .general disorder of the system; sometimes ?rely local affections. This is a point of much portance in practice ; for, if cancers areorigin- y onlv local affections, no objection can be ide to extirpating them. They who think, it cancer is a constitutional disease, regard the oration as useless, perhaps hurtful, inasmuch as may convert a scirrhus into an open cancer, make the affection occur in some other part. : Some of thebest practitioners of the present day, wever, reject the doctrine of cancer depend- ' on constitutional causes ; and, we have stated E. Home’s sentiments, in opposition to the nion. When cancer breaks out again, in the aepart, after the performance of an operation, s often owing to some portion of the disease -ing been blameablv left behind, or to the ration having been put off too long. How . ly it is, that some of the cancerous disease ,* be left unremoved by the operator, is obvious considering the manner, in which the white ds, resembling ligament, shoot into the sur- ading fat; and that, even the fibres of the ides, beneath a cancerous disease, are fre- ntly affected. At the same time, it must be wed, that the disease is sometimes, to all ap- ‘ances, so freely and completely removed, that ecurrence maybe imputed, perhaps with equal inability, to the continued operation of the e unknown cause, which originally produced first cancerous mischief. Jntil late years, the accounts given of the Its of operations for cancers were so unpro- ng, that they deterred many patients from :ergoing a timely operation ; which, for can- us complaints, is the only remedy to be de- led on, with which we are as yet acquainted. Mr. B. Bell remarks, the great authority of Alexander Monro must have had no incon- ■able influence even with practitioners, in ing them much more backward in undertaking extirpation of cancers, than they otherwise d have been. “Of near sixty cancers,” says lie, ich I have been present at the extirpation of, four patients remained free of the disease, e end of two years : three of these lucky le had occult cancers in the breast, and the > h had an ulcerated cancer on the lip.’J nb. Med. JEfsayi, Vol. 5.) Dr. Monro also ves, that, in those, in whom he saw the dis- relapse, it was always more violent, and a quicker progress, than it commonly did hers, on whom no operation had been per- 2d. Hence, he questions, “ whether ought irons tumors to be extirpated, or ought the jj tive method only to be followed?” and, tne whole, he concludes against their extir- n, except in such as are of the occult kind, m young healthy people, and have been occa- sioned by bruises, or other external causes. More modern experience, however, has afforded a very different result, and given ample encour- agement to the early performance of an opera- tion, and even to making an attempt to cut away the disease, in every instance, both of the occult, and ulcerated kind, when such a measure can be so executed, as not to leave a particle of the can- cerous mischief behind. Mr. Hill, in 1772, published some valuable remarks on the present subject. At this period, he had extirpated from different parts of the body eighty-eight genuine cancers, which were all ul- cerated, except four; and all the patients, except two, recovered of the operation. Of the first forty-five cases, only one proved unsuccessful; in three more, the cancer brolcq out again in dif- ferent parts ; and, in a fifth, there were threaten- ings of some tumors, at a distance from the ori- ginal disease. These tumors, however, did not appear, till three years after the operation ; and the woman was carried off by a fever, before they had made any progress. All the rest of the forty- five continued well, as long as they lived; or are so, says Mr. Hill, at this day. One of them sur- vived the operation above thirty years; and, fifteen were then alive, although the last of them was cured in March, 17 b’ I. Of the next thirty-three, one lived only four months ; and, in five more, the disease broke out afresh, after having been once healed. The rea- son, why, out of forty-five cases, only four or five proved unsuccessful, and six, out of thirty- three, was as follows : “ The extraordinary suc- cess, I met with, (says Mr. Hill,) made cancer- ous patients resort to me from all corners of the country, several of whom, after delaying till there was little probability of a cure by extirpation, or any other means, forced me to perform the opera- tion, contrary both to my judgment and incli- nation.” Upon a survey in April, 1764, made with a view to publication, the numbers stood thus: Total cured, of different ages.from eighty down- wards, sixty-three; of whom there were then living thirty-nine. In twenty-eight of that num- ber, the operation had been performed more than two years before; and, in eleven, it had been done in the course of the last two years. So that, upon the whole, after thirty years’ practice, thirty-nine, of sixty-three patients, were alive and sound ; which gives Mr.Hill occasion to observe, that tfie different patients lived as long after the extirpation of the cancers, as according to the bills of mortality, they would have done, had they never had any cancers, or undergone any operation. The remaining twenty-five, which complete the eighty-eight, were cured since the year I 764. Twenty-two of these had been cured, at least, two years; and some of them, it may be re- marked, were seventy, and one ninetyyears old. In the year 17"P. the sum of the whole stood thus : Of eighty-eight cancers, extirpated at least two years before; not cured, two ; broke out afresh, nine; threatened with a relapse, one ; in all, twelve, which is less than a seventh part of the whole number. At that.time, there were about forty patients alive and sound, whose can- cers had been extirpated above two years before. Mr. R. Bell, who was present at many of these