FRACTURES. 4 69 tion which was contiguous to the fracture, and thus served to unite the ends of the fragments, between which it was interposed. He admits, also, in some cases, that the internal periosteum, or medullary membrane, may furnish produc- tions extending between the ends of the fracture, like the continuation of the external periosteum, with which they become connected. Lastly; he supposed, that, in young subjects, whose bones had not acquired their full degree of hard- ness, the cartilaginous part was capable of exten- sion, and that in cases of fracture, it contributed to the more perfect union of the fragments. The system of Duhamel was opposed by Hal- ler and Dethleef, who, after a long series of well performed experiments, came to the conclusion, that the callus was formed by a gelatinous juice, which exudes from the extremity of the fractured bone, particularly from the medullary texture, and is effused all about the fracture ; that such juice is organized, forms a cartilage, and at length ossifies. But, as Boyer justly remarks, whatever dif- ference there may seem to be betwixt this doc- trine, and that of Duhamel, it is merely in the mode of explaining the facts. All these ob- servers noticed the same phenomena; and all the experiments of Dethleef accorded perfectly well with those of Duhamel. Both found, dur- ing the first days, immediately after the fracture, a lymph extravasated between the fragments, and a small tumor in the situation of the frac- ture. Both also remarked, that this tumor be- came softer, and that it afterwards formed a ge- latinous, then a cartilaginous, and lastly a bony, substance, which composed the uniting medium. But, Duhamel contends, that the cartilage is produced by the periosteum, while Haller and Dethleef argue, that it is the production of the extravasated lymph. Professor Boyer thinks, that Duhamel imputes too much to the periosteum; but, that Haller arid Dethleef were also wrong, if they supposed, as Fougeroux alleges, that an unorganized lymph could produce an organized substance by inspissation. (See Le Second Mdmoire sur les Os, par M. Bordenave, recueilli et pub Lid par M. Fougemux, p. 124.) It appears to Boyer much more natural to believe, that the gelatinous lymph already contains the rudiments of organ- ization, which become visible as they are de- veloped ; just as it is usually believed, that the rudiments of all our organs are contained in the transparent rnucilage, of which the embryo seems to consist. The experiments of Duhamel and Dethleef were carefully repeated by Bordenave, who as- certained several new and interesting facts. The result was the same in regard to the phenomena observed; but the explanation of them was dif- ferent. Instead of attributing the formation of callus to the periosteum, like Duhamel; or to the ex- travasation of lymph, like Dethleef; Bordenave conceived, that broken bones unite again by a process analogous to that, which nature employs tor the union of the divided soft parts. His in- ference is principally founded on two facts ge- nerally admitted ; 1st, that there is in the bones i vascular texture, designed to maintain the cir- culation in them ; 2dly,that such texture dilates when fractures are uniting, as appears from the swelling in the situation of the fracture, without which swelling, there could be no union. Bor- denave further remarks, with Haller and Deth- leef; 1st, That callus, at the commencement of its formation, appears to consist of a glutinous fluid effused from the ruptured vessels. 2dly, That this substance afterwards assumes the form of cartilage, to which certain vessels are distri- buted, which deposit the bony matter, and thus begin the generation of callus. 3dly, That the particles of bone, being all joined together, the callus changes into a porous substance, which in time becomes solid and compact, like the sub- stance of bones. Doubtless (says Boyer) we shall always re- main ignorant of the process, which nature em- ploys for the union of the bones, as well as for that of the soft parts. Every theory, which can be invented on this point, will only be con- jectures more or less probable. However, if this author were to adopt any system exclusively, he expresses that he should prefer that of Bor- denave. The mechanism of nature, in the formation of callus, must be analogous to that which she adopts in the union of wounds. The principal difference seems to be, that in the union of a fracture, the vessels after a time deposit the phosphate of lime. The vessels of the periosteum, medullary membrane, and probably also those of the soft parts in the immediate vicinity of the fracture, first effuse coagulating lymph. This gradually becomes vascular, and in proportion as the vessels acquire the power of secreting earthy matter, it is by degrees converted into new bone, termed callus, which from being at first soft and flexible, at length becomes firm and unyielding, and fit for constituting the fu- ture bond of union between the two extremities of the fracture. The observations, made by Baron Lqrrey, lead him to reject, as entirely erroneous, the doctrine, which refers the production of callus to the pe- riosteum, and he adopts the opinion, that the union and reparation of bones.are the work of their own vessels. He adverts to examples, in which after the use of the trephine in young sub- jects, the perforation becomes more or less closed by new bone, thrown out from the circumference towards the centre. Here, says he, the ossifica- tion assuredly can neither be referred to the pericranium, nor the dura-mater. The first of these membranes has been extensively destroyed, and, if the second were concerned, a vertical substance, shutting up the opening, would be ap- parent. In further support of his opinions, Baron Larrey cites the well known celerity, with which fractures of the lower jaw unite, on account of the great vascularity of that bone, and he believes, with Mr. A. Cooper, that If the ends of a fracture do not touch inconsequence of loss of substance, the intervening space remains unfilled up by new bone; a position, which seems rather repugnant to what has been said, concerning the mode of reparation after the use of the trephine. Larrey has often seen the superficial layers of the tibia exfoliate, after a necrosis produced by a cause, which had destroyed the whole of the periosteum on the front surface of that bone, as is sometimes the case in hospital gangrene. He