103 AMPUTATION. flap of skin to cover the bone; but this is quite unnecessary, if care be taken to draw the skin a little up, and to cut where Mr. Sharp directs. However, as making a small flap gives little pain, I have generally followed this method, though it appears to me nearly a matter of indif- ference which plan is adopted. In operating at the joints between the phalanges and metacarpal bones, a flap should always be made, either on the upper, or under part of the fingers to be removed. Although it is generally best to remove the fingers at the joints, it is sometimes thought right, where the injury just includes the joint, and no more, to saw through the bone, instead of operating at the next articulation. (See Guth- rie on Gunshot Wounds, p. 384.) It may happen, that the bones of the toes, and only part of the metatarsal bones, are carious, in which case, the leg need not be cut off, but only so much of the foot as is disordered. A small spring saw is here the most convenient. When this operation is performed, the heel and the remainder of the foot will be of great service, and the wound heal up safely, of which Mr. S. Sharp says, he had in his time seen one example. (Op. of Surgery, Chop. 37, Ful. 3.) Mr. Hev confirms this statement of Sharp’s concerning the impropriety of removing the whole foot, when the metatarsal bones are carious, and every other part of the leg is sound, as the remainder of the foot is of immense service in walking, the use of the aukle not being destroyed. Mr. Hey describes a new mode of removing the metatarsal bones, which on repeated trial has fully answered his expectations. 13y the term new, I here mean a particular method, which had not been previously described, though it may have been performed by others before Mr. Hey himself; for, the merit of having first done it is imputed to the late Mr. Turner, of North Yar- mouth, who did it with success about the year 1787. (See Hutchinson's Pract. Ohs. p. 70.) Mr. Iiey makes a mark across the upper part of the foot, to denote where the metatarsal bones are joined to those of the tarsus. About half an inch from this mark, nearer the toes, he makes a transverse incision, through the integuments and muscles covering the metatarsal bones. From each extremity' of this cut, he makes an incision along the inner and outer side of the foot to the toes: lie removes nil the toes from the metatar- sal bones, and then separates the integuments and muscles, forming the sole of the foot, from the inferior part of the metatarsal bones, keeping the edge of the knife as near the bones as pos- sible, in order to expedite the operation, and pre- serve as much muscular flesh in the flap as can be saved. • He then separates the four smaller metatarsal bones, at their junction with the tarsus, and divides, with a saw, the projecting part of the first cuneiform bone, which supports the great toe. The arteries being tied, Mr. I ley applies the flap, which had formed the sole of the foot, to the integuments, which remain at the upper part, and keeps them in contact with sutures. The cicatrix being situated at the top of the foot, is m no danger of being hurt, while the place where •he toes Were situated, is covered with such strong skin, viz. what previously formed the sole °* loot, that it cannot be injured by any moderate violence. (See Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 535, 3fr.) When the metatarsal bone of the great toe is alone diseased, Mr. Hey' recommends dissecting it out from the cuneiform bone, instead of sawing it. The latter plan cannot be easily accomplished, without removing part of the integuments and muscles, and making a transverse, as well as a longitudinal, incision. These disagreeable things may' be avoided by following the method of Mr. Hey, or of Mr. C. Bell. For removing the metatarsal bone, either of the little, or great toe, the latter gentleman directs us to carry a scal- pel round the root of the toe, and then along the side of the foot. The flaps are then to be dis- sected back, the metatarsal bone is to be sepa- rated from the next; and its square head is to be detached from the tarsus. (Operative Surgery, VoU 1, p. 390.) The removal of the central metatarsal, and metacarpal bones, is an operation of much diffi- culty, and, the sawing of them is hardly' practi- cable, without injuring the soft parts. Hence, I am decidedly of opinion, with Mr. C. Bell, that, instead of a formal amputation, it is better to extract the diseased bones from the foot, or hand, as, indeed, Mr. Hey was in the habit of doing. That skilful surgeon, Langenbeck, however, has devised a ready' mode of taking away the middle finger with its metacarpal bone, from the os magnum, or the ring finger, with its metacar- pal bone, from the articulation of the latter with tlw2 os magnum and os cuneiforme. In order to find out these articulations, he draws a line from the upper head of the metacarpal bone of the thumb straight across to the metacarpal bone of the finger to be extirpated, and, at this place, he begins his first incision, which runs towards each side of the finger, like an inverted V. The bnue is then separated all round from the soft parts, and dislocated from the carpus, when notning remains to be done but to cut the parts towards the palm, where the wound is also made to resemble an inverted V, but does not extend any farther than is necessary to complete the separation. (See Langenbeck's Bihl. B. 1, p. 575, and Plate 3, F. 1.) This is unquestiona- bly a simple and excellent method of operating, which Langenbeck also recommends as the best way of removing such bones of the metatar- sus, as are not situated at the sides of the foot; care being taken to save a flap from the sole. It is often difficult, however, to know with certainty, whether the disease is confined to the metacarpal, or metatarsal bones; and, if it be not, and the carpus, or tarsus be aflected, the operation will not answer, and amputation be indispensable. This happened in one of Laugenbeek’s cases, in which he lied removed one of the metacarpal bones. Modern surgeons never amputate the whole of the foot, or hand, when there is a reasonable chance of preserving any' useful portion o! it, though Lite rest may be most severely shattered. Thus, where a soldier had been struck by a grape shot, which shattered the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers, grazed'the middle finger, and'' tore up the integuments on the palm and back of the hand, Mr. Guthrie succeeded m saving the two fingers and thumb, although, in the re-