12°2 WOUNDS. made the patient lie on the wounded side, during the night, and in proportion as the blood con- tinued to be thus evacuated, the breathing be- came free from oppression. -4. The methods above explained, may be of use, when the blood retains its natural state of fluidity; but, when it is coagulated, as often happens, they can be of no avail. In this cir- cumstance, most authors direct a proper opening to be made, and tepid water then to be thrown into the chest, with the view of loosening, and dissolving the coagula, and washing them out of the wound. 1 he French writers, even the modern ones (Sabatier) most absurdly re- commend the injection of various detergent vul- nerary decoctions, and of solutions of honey of roses, soap, salt, Ac. What idea these authors can entertain of the great tendency to inflammation of the lungs and pleura, or what good they can expect from such applications, is difficult of conception. I am firmly convinced, that the meanest scribbler on surgery, in this country, would be ashamed of offering such advice. 5. When the wound is narrow, and situated at the upper part of the chest, the extravasated blood cannot be discharged, unless a counter- opening be made at the lower part of this cavity. The best place for making the opening, and the proper manner of executing the operation, are de- scribed under the head of Paracentesis. As soon as the opening has been made, the blood flows out. Its discharge is then to be promoted by such a posture, as will render the opening depending. The old surgeons, who had mucli more fear, than the moderns, of letting the opening heal up, sometimes employed tents, for the purpose of preventing this event, until all danger of another collection of blood, or matter, seemed to be over. However, as in these cases tents are apt to bring on inflammation of the pleura and lungs, hinder the escape of whatever fluid is contained in tire chest, and cause great irritation, pain, and even exfoliations from the ribs, their use is now relinquished. As large tents had the effect of hindering the discharge of blood, or matter from the cavity of the chest, some of the old French surgeons em- ployed a kind of wick ; but, in the present state of surgery, I do not consider that it would be at all edifying to enter into a comparison of these contrivances. If any means be ever requisite for keeping the opening from closing, there can- not be a better thing for the purpose, than a short cannula, with a rim to keep it from slipping into the thorax, and two little rings for confining it in its situation with a riband. This should only just enter deeply enough to have its inner orifice on a level, or a very little further inward, than the pleura costalis, so that it may not irritate the lungs When the patient has been dressed, he is to be kept in bed, with his head and chest somewhat elevated, and his thighs hunt, in which position, the breathing will be least oppressed. It is usual also to recommend him to lie, as much as pos- sible, on the side on which the operation has been done. He is to keep himself in as quiet a con- dition as he can. lie is to he put on very low diet. and. if his strmiofli allows, lie is to he bird peated with other antiphlogistic means, as often as the urgency of the fever and inflammatory symptoms indicates, and the strength allows. ' Bleeding from the arm, besides counter-acting inflammation in the chest, which is a principal source of danger, does good by lessening the force of the circulation in the wounded vessels, and thus diminishing the tendency to internal hemorrhage. The old practice of keeping open wounds of the chest, is now nearly exploded ; but, if it ever be advisable, particular caution must be used not to let the tents, and pieces of the dressings, glide into the cavity of the pleura. Tulpius speak's of a Danish gentleman, who had been under a care- less surgeon, on account of a wound in the thorax, and who coughed up, six months afterwards, a large tent. A similar fact is recorded by Hil- danus. A man was stabbed in the right side of the chest, near the axilla, between the second and third ribs. For a fortnight, a great deal of blood was discharged, both from the wound, and the mouth. The wound healed; but, the patient continued to be afflicted with considerable dif- ficulty of breathing, an incessant cough, and to spit up a greenish, fetid matter. Three months afterwards, he coughed up two tents, which had slipped into the cavity of the thorax. A relaxation of the antiphlogistic regimen must be made with very great circumspection. Too much nourishment, talking too frequently, and any exertion, are circumstances, which may in- duce a renewal of the hemorrhage, and extrava- sation. Vesalius saw an accident of this nature happen, a fortnight after the wound, and eleven days after the operation for empyema. A soldier, who had been stabbed in two places with a sword above the right nipple, was attacked with fever, difficulty of breathing, restlessness, and acute pain at the bottom of the chest. These sym- ptoms induced Vesalius to infer, that an extrava- sation had taken place ; but, he was afraid of making an opening in the chest, for fear the he- morrhage should still continue from the wounded vessels. However, as the patient remained in the same state, the fourth day after the receipt of the wounds, and he still had strength enough, Vesalius undertook the operation, by which a considerable quantity of extravasated blood was discharged. The patient felt great relief at the instant. The oozing of blood continued for a few days, after which a favourable suppuration took place in all the three wounds, and the ease was expected to end well. But, the .pa- tient having regained his strength, and taken too much food, the recurrence of hemorrhage caused his death. Lombard saw a soldier die instan- taneously of internal hemorrhage, brought on by throwing a bowl at some nine pins, two months after he had been cured of a wound of the lungs. When the edges of a penetrating wound of the chest are to be brought together, writers state, that the patient should be requested to make a strong inspiration, with the wound closed, and then a long, slow expiration with it open, and so on, till as much of the air is discharged from the thorax as possible, and then the wound is t" be accurately closed with sticking-plaster. From what has been observed, however, in the article^ Jimnhusr.ma, it will appear, that when there is a