SUTURES. 1012 keep the middle of the wound, and lips of it pressed together with moderate closeness, and prevent any strain upon the threads, or any coarse and painful tying across the face of the wound.” In a note Mr. J. Bell says, that Dionis violently reprobates the quilled suture; but, that De la Faye (the annotator on Dionis) says, it is good for deep muscular wounds. The quilled suture is now scarcely ever employed; nor has it any advantages, except, perhaps, in some wounds in the belly. (See Principles of Surgery, Vol. I. p. SO.) I think the reader will more easily compre- hend the manner of making the quilled suture, from the following simple directions. Take as many needles, as stitches intended to be made; arm them with a double ligature, or one capable of being readily split into two; introduce the ligatures through the wound; cut off the needles: lay a piece of bougie along one side of the wound, and tie the ends of the ligatures over it. Next draw the other extremities of the ligatures, so as to bring the first piece of bougie into close con- tact with the flesh; lay the second piece of bougie along the opposite side of the wound, and tie the other ends of the ligatures over it, with sufficient tightness. Glover’s Suture—This had also the name of the continued suture. It was executed by in- troducing the needle first into one lip of the wound, from within outwards, then into the other in the same way; and, in this manner the whole track of the wound was sewed up. The glover’s suture has long been rejected by’- all good surgeons, as improper to be employed in cases of common wounds. It was not, how- ever, till very lately, that this suture was totally abandoned; for, Mr. Sharp, and several eminent writers, since his time, have advised its adoption in wounds of the stomach and intestines. From what has been said in the articles Wounds of the Abdomen, and Hernia, the reader will perceive, that even in such particular instances, the glover’s suture would not be advisable; so that it may, in every point of view, be now considered as totally disused in every case of surgery, which can pos- sibly present itself. When we remember, in making this suture, how many stitches are un- avoidable; how unevenly, and in what a puckered state, the suture drags the edges of the skin to- gether; and what irritation it must produce; we can no longer be surprised, at its now being never practised on the living subject. It is commonly employed for sewing up dead bodies ; a purpose for which it is well fitted ; but, for the honour of surgery, and the sake of mankind, it is to be hoped, that it will never again be adopted in practice. False, or Dry Suture.—Modern surgeons commonly understand by this expression nothing more, than the plan of bringing the sides of a wound together, by means of adhesive plaster; nor did Mr. Samuel Sharp attach any other meaning to the phrase, which he sets down as highly ridiculous, as there is no sewing employed. For the following remarks, I am indebted to Mr. Carwardine, of Earls Colne Priory, near llalsted, Essex. Alluding to what Was stated the precise mode of its application, or why it was so called. Indeed, it is a curious circumstance, how this method of dry suture should have been so lost, as not to be described by any modern surgeons, who laugh at the very term, speaking of it as a mere application of a strip of adhesive plaster. In the suturu sicca, so called in op- position to the sietura efuenta, where blood followed the needle, some adhesive plaster was spread on linen, having a selvage. A piece of this was applied along each side of the wound (the selvages being opposed to each other), and then drawn together by sewing them with a common needle, without bloodshed. Hence the term sutura sicca. The dry suture was used in all wounds of the face to avoid scars. You will find it thus described by our countryman Thomas Gale in his Enchiridion, 1563 ; and also by A. Pare)’, who gives a figure of it in his folio work, 1579.” I feel much obliged to my friend Mr. Carwardine for this explanation, without which the expression dry suture is undoubtedly absurd. As the common way of dressing wounds with stick- ing plaster will come under consideration in a future part of this work (see Wounds'', I shall not here detain the reader upon that topic. Sutures, by which I mean such as were made in the flesh with a needle and ligature, were much more frequently employed by the old sur- geons, than they are by the moderns. The best practitioners of the present day never resort to this method of holding the sides of a wound in contact, except in cases in which there is a real necessity for it, and other modes will not suffice. There were, indeed, certain instances, in which the employment of sutures was long agfl forbidden. Of this kind were envenomed wounds, in which accidents the destruction of the poison always formed a principal indication in the treat- ment.—Wounds, accompanied with considerable inflammation, were not deemed proper for the use of sutures, as the stitches had a tendency to increase the inflammatory symptoms. Also, as contused wounds necessarily suppurated, and, consequently, could not be united, sutures were not recommended for them; nor were they judged expedient for wounds attended with such a loss of substance as prevented their lips from being placed in contact. For- merly, wounds penetrating the chest, were Ed united by sutures ; nor were those in which la blood-vessels were injured; at least, until all danger of hemorrhage was obviated by the ves sels being tied. Dionis believed, with several other autho that wounds should not be united, when bo were exposed, on account of the exfoliatio which might be expected. This precept is longer valid : for w hen bones are neither alter nor diseased, and are only simply denuded, divided with a cutting instrument, no exfoliaf will commonly follow, if the surgeon take care replace the fresh-cut soft parts, so as to co the exposed portion of the bone. The practi bleness of uniting wounds, attended with division of a bone, is confirmed by numer facts. De la Peyronie communicated to French Academy of Surgerv, a case concl , 1 • 1 a *