301 cataract. is on the eve with the needle, is valuable: Tn inarv cases, there is not the least occasion any preparatory treatment previous to the ration • all that prudence requires is, that the ent should abstain from animal food, and fer- ited liquors, for a few days, before submitting t, and should take one dose of a gentle pur- ve. But this, like every other general ob- ation, is liable to particular exceptions. Hy- londriacal men, hysterical women, and patients ect to affections of the stomach and^nervous cm, should take, for two or three weeks be- || the operation, tonic bitter medicines, particu- the infusion of quassia, either with, or with- || a few drops of the tether vilriolieum to each ■; or, in other cases, 3j °f Peruvian bark, jjj of valerian, may be administered two or e times a day with particular benefit. It is ob- II ed by the most accurate writers upon this sub- that, in such persons, the symptoms conse- it to operations upon the eyes, are often much i violent than in common cases ; and it there- seems proper to endeavour, previously, to orate their constitutions. When the patient aid, it is very advisable to give him, half an before the time of operating, about fifteen s of the titictura of ii, with a little wine. 11 ime patients, besides being afflicted with 11 acts, have the edges of the eye-lids swollen m gummy, with relaxation, and chronic redness || e conjunctiva. In this case, before ur.der- ;g to couch, it is advisable to apply a blister H e nape of the neck, and to keep it open for 'M >r three weeks, by means of the savin cerate, to insinuate every morning and evening, een the palpebrae and globe of the eye, a quantity of the unguentum hydrarg. nitrat. s, prepared according to the pharmacopoeia :. Bartholomew’s Hospital, increasing its gth gradually, ([y. Unguenti hydrargyri i, 2'v. Adipis Suillae ^viij. Olei Olivse, In obstinate cases, when this ointment does .reduce the desired effect, an ointment re- tended by Janin, (Memoires sur l’Oeil,) d be substituted : it consists of ^ss of hog’s yij of prepared tutty, 3ij of armenian bole, j of the white calx of quicksilver. At first, ihould be taken to use it lowered, with twice •ice its quantity of lard. In the day time, a ium, composed of Jiv of rosewater, Jss of mcilage or quince seeds, and gr. v. of the ite of zinc, may also be frequently used with erable advantage. By such means, the 1 secretion from the Meibomian glands, and rnnous lining of the eye-lids, will be checked, 2 due action of the vessels, and natural flexi- jf the eye-lids, will be restored. (Saggio di uziimiy dfc. sidle piincipati mulallie degli 1 enet. 11502.) ire are three different operations practised ■ cure of cataracts, viz. one termed coudf- r depression, of which the method, called 'ion, is a modification, as will be hereafter ied; another, named extraction; and a enominated keratnuyxis, which consists in ring the cornea with a needle, the point of is to be conveyed through the pupil, so as h the cataract which is to be gently broken igments. As Beer observes, each of these '■as, in particular cases, manifest advan- ij iff •f! i r [ e! I i! V t i. tages over the other two ; but, no single method will ever be exclusively preferred, and invariably followed, by any man of experience and judgment. In every operation for a cataract, the position of the patient, assistants, and surgeon, is of great importance. In order to enable the assistant, who stands behind the patient, to be conveniently near the head of the latter, Beer prefers letting the patient sit on a stool, which has no back. However as I shall presently notice, some emi- nent surgeons have urged good reasons in favour of employing a chair, which is completely perpen- dicular. When the left eye is to be operated upon, the same assistant is to apply his right-hand under the patient’s chin, and press the head of the latter against his breast, at the same time that he inclines it and himself more or less forwards towards the operator, who sits upon rather a high stool, in front of the patient. In this country, a music-stool is commonly preferred, the height of which can be regulated in a moment, by simply turning the seat round to the right, or left, whereby the screw, with which it is connected, is made to rise, or descend, as may be found most desirable. The same assistant then places his left-hand fiat upon the left side of the patient’s forehead, with the points of the fore and middle fingers, somewhat under the edge of the upper eye-lid ; and, with the fore-finger, he is now to raise the edge of this eye-lid, as much as possible, following that finger immediately with the middle one, so as to fix the eye-lid with greater certainty. The ends of these fingers, however, must be so applied, as not to touch the globe of the eye in the slightest man- ner, much less make any pressure upon it, yet, so that the upper part of the eye-ball and cornea may be gently resisted by them, when the eye rolls upwards away from the instrument about to be introduced, whereby this position, which is ex- tremely inconvenient to the operator, may be imr mediately rectified. The patient should also sit obliquely opposite a clear window, so that a suf- ficient light may fall obliquely upon the eyes, without any rays being reflected to the cornea, and becoming a hinderance to the operator. Nor should light from any other quarter be ever allowed to fall upon the eyes. The surgeon should sit in front of the patient, whose head ought to be directly opposite the operator’s breast, whereby the latter will be enabled to see from above, with the greatest correctness, every thing in the eye during the operation, and .will not be under the necessity of raising Ifis arms too considerably. Supposing it to be the left eye, which is to be operated upon, he next effectually draws down the lower eye-lid with the left fore- finger, the end of which must be placed over the edge of the eye-lid, towards the globe of the eye, just like those of the assistant, who supports the upper eye-lid. The middle finger is then to be applied in a similar way over the caruncula la- chrymalis. The operator now takes in his right- hand the requisite instrument for the operation, viz. the needle, or knife, which is to be held, like a pen, between the thumb and the fore and mid- dle fingers. By this particular arrangement of the fingers of the assistant and operator, which, indeed, is i.artly ineffectual where the fissure of the eye-lids is very narrow, and the eye-ball is diminutive and sunk in the orbit, the restless eye i d 'Taessc; isssag* * ■