SGG DISLOCATION. mentioned by authors as dislocations of the lum- bar and dorsal vertebrae, have only been concus- sions of the spinal marrow, or fractures of such bones. The cervical vertebrae, however, not having such extensive articular surfaces, and having more motion, are occasionally luxated. The dislocation of the head from the first vertebra, and of the first vertebrae from the second, par- ticularly the last accident, is the most common; but luxations of the cervical vertebra lower down, though very rare, are possible. Indeed, according to Boyer, many examples have hap- pened, in which one of the inferior oblique, or articular processes of a cervical vertebra has been dislocated, so as to cause a permanent in- clination of the neck towards the side opposite to that of the displacement. (Traiie des Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 114.) Whether the case, published by Mr. C. Bell, under the name of a subluxation of the spine, ought to be received as an unequivocal specimen of a displacement of the last cervical from the first dorsal vertebra, I cannot pretend to deter- mine. This author speaks of an evident loosening between these two bones ; of a considerable space between them ; of the destruction of the interver- tebral substance ; and of an immense quantity of pus around the injured part of the spine; as cir- cumstances seen in the dissection. “ On the back part, the pus had extended under the scapulae, and on the fore part was bounded by the (Eso- phagus,’’ and, in the spinal canal, it had de- scended through the whole length of the sheath to the cauda epuina. (0. Bell, Surg. Obs. Vol. 1, />. 14S.) DISLOCATION OP THE HEAD FROM THE FIRST VERTEBRA, OR ATLAS. The os occipitis, and first cervical vertebra are so firmly connected by ligaments, that there is no instance of their being luxated from an ex- ternal cause, and, were the accident to happen, it would immediately prove fatal by the unavoid- able compression and injury of the spinal marrow. Five examples of displacement of the atlas by disease are in the Museum at Leyden, and are described by Sandifort. Boyer has seen one at la Charite; and a very interesting descrip- tion of a similar case, illustrated by engravings, has been recently published by Schupke. (Be Lu.ratione Spontanea Atlantis et Epistrophei, 4to. Berol. IS 16.) In this tract is collected from the writings of J. P. Frank, (Delect. Opusc. Vol. 5.) from those of Reil, (Feiberlehre, B. 2, § 102;) and of Rust, &c. an exact detail of the svm - ptoms of the disease; an important topic on which Boyer confesses his inability to give any information. These spontaneous displacements of the atlas may depend upon caries and scro- phulous disease of its articular surfaces, or upon an exostosis of its transverse process, or a simi- lar tumor growing from the neighbouring portion of the os occipitis, or petrous portion of the tem- noral bone. By these causes, the anterior, or posterior arch, or one ol the sides of the atlas, has been made to intercept a third, the half, and even two-thirds of the diameter of the foramen magnum. Notwithstanding the very remarkable constriction of the medulla spinalis, thus occa- sioned, it is noticed by Boyer, that life may be carried on, and the nutritive functions performed sufficiently well to afiord time enough either for i the exostoses to attain a large size, or for the the anchylosis, binding together the head and most of the cervical vertebrae, to acquire great solidity. According to the same author, the atlas j is never found free and distinct, when thus dis- placed, but is confounded at least with the os . j occipitis, and mostly with five or six of the sub- jacent vertebrae. And, another interesting fact is, that, in cases of this description, the joint m between the atlas and occiput is never the only j one, which is displaced and deformed, unless the disease be very slightly advanced; for, the arti- culation of the processus dentatus with the atlas, and sometimes that of the point of the same pro- cess with the occiput, are considerably affected. Sometimes, the processus dentatus and the occi- put retain their natural position with respect to ; each other, and the atlas alone^ seems to be dis- placed between them. Sometimes, the second vertebra is out of its place with respect to the os occipitis in the same direction as the atlas, but not in quite so great a degree. Lastly, in some other instances, the two vertebrae are twisted in opposite directions, as, for instance, one to the left, the other to the right; or vice versa. In one of the cases, recorded by Sandifort, this kind of lateral displacement in opposite directions was so extensive, that an interspace, only six lines in breadth, was left between their approximated an- nular margins. An instance was seen by Duver- ney, where the displacement of the two vertebrae was from before backward, and where the pro- cessus dentatus was approximated to the poste- ! rior arch of the atlas to the extent of two-thirds i of the annular opening in this vertebra. In these cases, nothing can be more obvious, than that there must be a destruction, or at all events a thoroughly diseased state, of the ligaments between the atlas and dentatus, and of those , connecting the dental process to the occiput. (Boyer, T ol. cit. 105.) As for the treatment of the preceding forms of disease, experience has hitherto furnished little j satisfactory knowledge. But, as an analog}- is , seen between these cases, and the scrophulous > and carious affections of other joints, blisters, i setons, and issues have been proposed and tried, ! Rust found these remedies only capable of retard- ing the progress of the disease, and of producing an abatement of the symptoms. The pain often reaching from the back of the head to the fore- head, was rendered less severe; and the difficulty of swallowing was considerably lessened. But, the means here specified were not found adequate j to arrest the morbid change in the bones. How- ever, Rust thinks, that greater benefit might be expected, if a case were to present itself arising altogether from a local cause, without its origin being connected with constitutional disease. (Soliburger, Med. Ca r. Zeitun : JJirgang. 1813, B. 3, p- 108.) DISLOCATIONS OF THE FIRST CERVICAL VERTEBRA FROM THE SECOND. The rotatory motion of the head is chiefly performed by the first vertebra moving on the second. When this motion is forced beyond its proper limits, the ligaments which lie the pro-