AMPUTATION. 85 to think it best, therefore, to let a small quantity of skin be detached and saved at the back part of the le<*, so that there may be a certainty of having enough to cover well the extremity of the divided muscles of the calf. As soon as the skin has been separated in front, and on the outside of the leg, the surgeon is to detach the skin from the calf for about an inch, and having reflected or drawn this preserved portion out of the way, he is to place the edge of the knife close to the edge of the re- tracted or reflected skin at the back of the limb, and cut obliquely upwards through the muscles of the calf, from the inner edge of the tibia quite across the fibula, supposing the operator to be on the outside of the right leg, and that it is this member, which is undergoing removal. In per- forming this last incision, as M. Louis well ob- serves, it is essential to incline the edge of the knife obliquely upwards. In this manner the skin will be longer than the muscles, and the cure will be considerably accelerated. (Mem. de C Acted. (te Chirurgie, com. 5. edit, m 1 2mo.) In the leg, the necessity of dissecting the skin from the subjacent parts, is acknowledged to be greater than in the thigh : thus, Mr. Guthrie says, “ as the attachment of the skin to the bone will not readily allow of its retraction, it must be dissected back all round, and separated from the fascia, the division of which in the first incision would avail nothing, from its strong attachment to the parts beneath.” (On Gunshot ITounr/.t, p. 220.) In dissecting the skin, however, a much greater detachment of it should be made at the front and outer part of the limb, than at the oppo- site points, as already explained. The flap formed by the integuments, and mus- cles of the calf, is then to be held back by one of the assistants, while the surgeon completes the division of the rest of the muscles, together with that of the interosseous ligament, by means of the catling, a kind of long, narrow, double-edged knife. In amputating below the knee, very particular care must be taken to cut every fasciculus of muscular fibres, before using the saw. Every part, except the bones, being divided, the soft parts are next to be protected from the teeth of -ihe saw by a linen retractor, made with two slits to receive the two bones, care being taken to let the unslit part be applied to the muscles of the calf, as particularly advised by Graefe. (Op. cit. r• 136.) In the leg, there are only three principal arteries, requiring ligatures, viz. the anterior and posterior tibial, and the peroneal or fibular arteries. In addition to these, however, there are sometimes large muscular branches, which require to be taken up. The anterior tibial artery will be found in front of the interosseous membrane, and between the extremities of the bones ; the fibular artery behind the fibula; and the posterior tibial, situated more inwardly than the last amongst the fibres of the soleus, near the tibia. (( . Bell, Opei. Surgery, vul. I. p. 385.) When the soft parts have been cut in the pre- ceding way, the bones sawn, and the arteries tied, the wound is to be closed by bringing the /fl1 of skin over the front and external part of 1 c stump, so as to meet the flap composed of the gastrocnemius, soleus, and integuments on the opposite side. This should be done without let— tlng any tight strap of plaster press tne skin against the sharp edge of the tibia, a serious and hurtful practice, which has often occasioned ul- ceration and sloughing of the integuments, and protrusion and necrosis of the bone. It is this danger which leads Mr. Guthrie to prefer closing the wound vertically, or nearly so, and applying the adhesive straps from side to side. (On Gun- shot Wounds, p. 221.) I think, however, the above mode of operating almost necessarily re- quires the wound to be closed, so as to form a line, extending in a direction from the tibia to the fibula. But, where a great deal of skin is saved all round the limb, and the muscles of the calf are not chiefly calculated upon for covering the bones, the perpendicular line of the wound will answer very well. Many surgeons, however, operate differently. They first make the circular incision through the skin, two inches below where they mean to saw the bones. They next detach the skin from the muscles and bones equally all round the limb to the extent of about a couple of inches. The integu- ments are then turned up, and a division of the muscles made all round down to the bones, on a level with the line where the detachment of the skin has terminated. The parts between the bones are afterwards cut through, &c. The hemorrhage having been stopped, the integu- ments are drawn down over the stump. Here, I think, the wound might be closed so as to let the cicatrix be perpendicular; yet Ilicherand recommends it to' be united from before back- ward, because (says he) the greatest diameter of the stump is from without inward. (Nusographie Cliimrg. t. 4. p 485—486. edit. 4.) In the army, the practice has sometimes been adopted of sawing oft' the sharp upper ridge of the tibia ; but I can offer no exact judgment on the merits of the innovation, which is makingonly slow progress. It has been done a few times at St. Bartholomew’s, and I should have no objec- tion to giving it a fair trial, especially as it has the sanction of Mr. Guthrie, who says, that, in thin persons, where the spine of the tibia is very sharp, this part should be removed with the saw. (p. 222.) Occasionally, surgeons have also removed the small remnant of the fibula, and such was some- times the practice of Larrey, when he amputated nearer the knee than common. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. T.3. p. 389.) Whether the above plan of amputating the leg so high up, when the foot or ankle is the part diseased or injured, be on the whole most ad- vantageous, I cannot presume to determine. There are certainly many clever men who con- demn the practice, and though we see it pursued by the best surgeons in this metropolis, we may safely assert, that the matter requires further consideration. If it were a decided point, that the common custom of bending the knee, for the sake of bearing the weight of the body on its anterior part, were the only one admissible, after amputation of the leg, there could be no doubt of the propriety of performing the operation a little way below the knee, in preference to any other situation. But, since there have been nu- merous instances of persons walking very se- curely with machines, which allow them to make use of the knee, and are more pleasing to the eye, on account of their perfect resemblance to