AMAUROSIS. uncomplicated affection* or, at least, \\ ith the ap- pearance of such a form of disease of the eye, depending solely upon a morbid state of the optic nerve, aifd cognizable by a diminution, or com- plete abolition, of the power of vision; or the disease is co-existent with other diseased appear- ances either in the eye, its vicinity, or some other oro-ans at a distance from the eye, or in the general constitution. These appearances merit the most earnest consideration, because they are for the most part connected with the cause of amaurosis. According to this statement, then, there is a genuine local amaurosis, and a compli- cated amaurosis, which last may be either local, or general, or of both descriptions together, and therefore named by Beer, perfectly complicated. (VoU cir. p. 431.) On the whole, genuine local amaurosis, that is to say, a diminution or total loss of the eyesight, unattended with any other apparent local or con- stitutional defect, may be said to be a very rare case, the disorder being usually more or less complicated. To the hitherto ascertained local complications, says Beer, belong the cataract; glaucoma; a general varicose state of the eyeball (cirsophthal- mm;); exophthalmia; atrophy of the eye; spasms in the organ and surrounding parts ; paralysis of one or more muscles of the eye (ophthalmoplegia;); paralysis of the eyelids; ophthalmia in general, and internal ophthalmia in particular; a scorbutic blood-shot appearance of the eye; (Hypoema Scorbuticum;)-, and, finally', wounds or contusions of the eye, or adjacent parts. From this simple enumeration of local complications, one may see how frequently, under such circumstances, amau- rosis is only a symptomatic effect of another dis- order of the eye, with which it is conjoined, and how often it is connected with the same common causes, which pertain to another or several other diseases of the eye, as, for instance, in gouty sub- jects, with glaucoma, cataract, cirsophthalmia, &c. Amongst the general complications, Beer enumerates those which are purely' nervous; im- pairment of the health in various forms by' infec- tion, contagion, or miasmata; a bad habit of body; typhoid fevers; asthma; internal and ex- ternal hydrocephalus; organic defects of the ab- dominal viscera; worms ; chlorosis ; consump- tion ; old ulcers of the legs ; organic disease of the brain and skull; complaints arising from pregnancy; hemorrhage; &c. In these general complications, Beer remarks that the causal con- nexion between amaurosis, and some other re- mote disease of another organ, or of the whole constitution, cannot be mistaken ; and, says the same author, in these cases, wc often see the disease of some other distant part from the eye, suddenly or gradually diminish, and immediately appear again as a sympathetic action in the form of amaurosis, of which thd most remarkable in- stance is seen after the sudefen healing of old ulcers o the legs. [Beer, Leljre von den Augcnkr. B, 2j ji, 433.) From the above general remarks upon amau- rosis, it is quite manifest, that the objective and ■subjective symptoms of the disease-vary con- s' if i accnrding to the violence of its causes, n n the local and general complications, though the seat of the disease, and what is particularly the proximate cause of the loss of vision, be in tfie optic nerve; and it depends especially on the nature of the causes, whether this or that morbid appearance take place in the eye. One may consider as the only real inseparable subjective symptom of amaurosis, that weakness of sight (Amblyopia) or that complete blindness, in which neither with the unassisted nor assisted eye the least defect can be perceived in the struc- ture and shape of the affected organ. Hence, Beer names such impairment of vision, or blind- ness, amaurotic. But how seldom this subjective symptom of amaurosis exists alone, and how frequently' it is obscured by some other defect in the structure and form of the eye, is proved by daily experience. The objective symptoms of amaurosis have hitherto been set down as merely consisting of a considerable dilatation of the pupil, and immobility of the iris, because these appearances are indeed the most frequent; but, as Beer observes, this is another proof what ignorance has prevailed re- specting the true nature of that disease of the eye, and its modifications, which are usually termed amaurosis; the objective symptoms of the complaint being, according to the nature of the causes, as numerous as the subjective. First; the objective symptoms of amaurosis may consist in the faulty' size and shape of the pupil. In many cases, the pupil is very" much dilated, immoveable, and possesses its natural black colour, and usual transparency. It cannot be denied, that this is the state of numerous cases; but, it is equally true, that there are many exceptions. Sometimes, according to Richter, in the most complete and incurable cases, the pupil is of its proper size, and even capable of very free motion (Tarbes, Recueil Periodique, <$-c, T. 2, p, 319.); and, occasionally', it is actually smaller, and more contracted, than natural. This aperture often continues extraordinarily large in the strongest light; but in some instances it is unusually small in every' kind of light. (Arrachard, Recueil Period. Sfc. T. !, p. 27 3.—■ Richter, Anfangsgr. &;c. B. 3. p. 424; Beer, Lehre, §c. B. 2, p? 435.) According to the. latter writer, the pupillary edge of the iris rarely has its primitive shape, being generally more or less angular ; either at some indeterminate point; or above and below, so as to resemble in some measure the pupil of the cat-race; or towards the nose, or temple, so as to have some similitude in its form to the pupil of ruminating animals. These appearances are highly important, having great influence over the diagnosis. Frequently not only the size and shape of the pupil are faulty, but the position of that opening is quite unnatural, being inclined either upwards or downwards, or outwards or inwards; but most commonly' in a diagonal line between inwards and upwards, and, in these cases, the pupillary mar- gin of the iris never describes a regular circle, but is always more or less angular, (Beer, Vol, cit. p. 436'.) The pupil of an eyre affected with amaurosis (as Richter remarks) seldom exhibits the clear shining blackness, which is seen in a healthy eye, In general it is of a dull, glassy, hornlike black- I 1 . . At,