HEMORRHAGE. £.83 not the centre; while, on other occasions, it is only the upper, or lower half, which is discerned. Sometimes objects are seen thus imperfectly, whether distant, or near ; sometimes, only when they are near, and not at a great distance. The causes of hemiopia are divided by Richter into four kinds. To the first belong opacities of the cornea and crystalline lens, especially, such as destroy the transparency of only a certain portion of these parts. The cure of this species of hemiopia depends upon the removal of the partial opacity from which it originates. (See Cataract, and Cornea, Opacities of'.) Under certain circumstances, persons, whose upper eye-lid cannot be properly raised, are af- fected with hemiopia. They can only discern the lower half of an object, which is near and of large size, unless they go farther from it, draw their heads backward, or turn their eyes down- ward. The pupil, in particular instances, be- comes drawn away from the middle of the iris. This may also be a cause of hemiopia : it is a case, that does not admit of a cure. The affec- tion may likewise proceed from a separation of the iris from the margin of the cornea by exter- nal violence, or other causes. Here the cure is equally impracticable. The foregoing species of hemiopia are merely effects of other diseases. The fourth and last kind is the most important, being generally re- garded as an independent disorder. Sometimes, it appears rather to be the effect of a sudden and transient irritation, producing a morbid sensibility in the optic nerve. The causes of this sort of case, if we can credit Richter, are mostly seated in the abdomi- nal viscera. When the affection is more durable, forming what has been termed amaurosis dimi- diala, the same treatment is indicated, as in Amaurosis, in which indeed, it often terminates. (Richter, Anfaugsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 3, Kap. 17.) HEMORRHAGE, (from a\y.u, blood, and pyvoy.i, to break out.) Bleeding. This is doubtless one of the most important subjects in Surgery. The fear of hemorrhage retarded the improvement of our profession for ages: the ancients, ignorant how to stop bleed- ing, were afraid to cut out the most trivial tumor, or they did so with terror. They generally per- formed slowly and imperfectly, by m£ans of burn- ing irons, or ligatures, the same operations, which the moderns execute quickly and safely with a knife. If the old surgeons ventured to nnputate a limb, they only did so, after it had nortified, by dividing the dead parts, and so great was their apprehension of hemorrhage, that they inly dared to cut parts which could no longer rleed. (,/o//«. Bell's Principles of Surgery, V°l \,P- H2.) But, not only as a consequence >f surgery, is hemorrhage to be feared; it is also me of the most alarming accidents, which sur- gery is called upon to relieve. “ Un sentiment 'ailarcl uttaehe a Videe. de perdre son sung; un t,:rrcur machinate, dont l'enfant, qui com- ’■nientc u purler, el I’humme le, plus decide, sont go cmrtit suscrptihlrs. On tie pent point dice, Vtf t.ettc pent- iaii ehimerique. Si I'on com- ptoil ceu.v,qui perdent la vie dans une bataille,on verroit, que les trois quarts ont peri par quelque hemorrhagic; et dans les grandes operations de chirurgie cet accident est presque tuujours le plus formidable." {Mor and. Man. de l'Acad. Royale dc Chirurgie, Vol. 5. 8vo.) As the blood circulates in the arteries with much greater impetus and rapidity, than in the veins, it necessarily follows, that their wounds are generally attended with much more hemorrhage, than those of the latter vessels, and that such hemorrhage is more difficult to suppress. How- ever, as the blood also flows through veins, of great magnitude, with great velocity, bleedings from them are frequently highly dangerous, and sometimes unavoidably fatal. When an artery is wounded, the blood is of a bright scarlet colour, and gushes from the vessel per saltum, in a very rapid manner. The blood issues from a vein in an even, unbroken stream, and is of a dark purple red colour. It is of great practical use to re- member these distinguishing differences, between arterial and venous hemorrhage, because, though in both cases the oozing of blood may be equal in quantity, yet, in the latter instance, the surgeon is often justified in bringing the sides of a wound together, without taking farther means to sup- press the bleeding, while it would not be proper to adopt the same conduct, were there an equal discharge of arterial blood. Dr. Jones has favoured the world with a match- less work, on the present subject; and as one grand object of this Dictionary is to present a careful account of the principal modern improve- ments in surgical science, I shall first endeavour to make the reader acquainted witli the more ac- curate doctrines first promulgated by this gentle- man relative to the subject of hemorrhage. Afterwards, the surgical means, to be practised in different cases, will be considered. The sides of the arteries are divisible into three coats. The internal one is extremely thin, and smooth. It is elastic, and firm, (considering its delicate structure) in the longitudinal direction, but so weak in the circular as to be very easily torn by the slightest force applied in that direc- tion. Its diseases show, that it is vascular, and it is also probably sensible. The middle coat is the thickest, and is com- posed of muscular fibres, all arranged in a circu- lar manner; they differ, however, from common muscular fibres in being more elastic, bv which they alone keep a dead artery open, and of a cy- lindrical form. As this middle coat has no longi- tudinal fibres, the circular fibres are held toge- ther by a slender connexion rwhich yields readily to any force, applied in the circumference of the artery. The external coat is remarkable for its white- ness, density, and great elasticity. When an artery is surrounded with a tight ligature, its middle and internal coats arc as completely di- vided by it, as they could be by a knife, while the external coat remains entire. Besides these proper coats, all the arteries, in their natural situations, are connected, by means of fine cellular substunce, with surrounding mem- branous sheaths. If an artery be divided, the divided parts, owing to their elasticity, recede from each other, and the length of the ecllulai