254 CAESAREAN OPERATION. the arm kept extended fora length of time by the use of a splint. It is hardly necessary to observe, that, cutting a large cicatrix entirely away, must always be a severe, and sometimes a dangerous operation : therefore, the avoidance of it, if pos- sible, cannot but be desirable. (See B. Bell's System of Surgery ; Medical Fads and Observa- tions, I ol. 2; J. Sedillnt, de Ambustione Theses, 4to. Purisiis, 1781. Richter’s Anfungsgmnde der Wundarzneyhunst, Band 1. Earles Essay on the Means of Lessening the Effects of Fire on the Human Body, 8vo. Land. 1799. Kentish’s Two Essays on Burns, the first of which was published in 1798. Hedin, Diss. sistens Observationes circa vulnera ex com bust ione, <|t. 4 to. Upsaliec, 1804. Larrey, MSmoires dc Chirurgic Militaire, Tom. 1, p. 93—96. Boyer's Traite des Maladies Chir. T. 1, p. 160. Nodes Dickinson, Remarks on Burns and, Scalds, chiefly in reference to the prin- ciple of treatment at the time of their infliction, suggested by a perusal of the last edition of an Essay on Burns, by E. Kentish, M.D. 8to. Land. 1818. Lectures on Inflammation. by John Thomson, p. 585, £<fo. Ed in. 1813. Lassus Pathologic Chir. T. 2, p. 391. Leveille, Nuuvelle Doctrine Chir. T. 4, p. 355. Pearson’s Principles of Surgery, p. 171. Edit. 1808.) BURSAE MUCOSAE. These are small membranous sacs, situated about the joints, par- ticularly the large ones of the upper and lower extremities. For the most part, the}7 lie under tendons. The celebrated Ur. A. Monro, of Edinburgh, published a very full account of the bursae mucosae, and also of their diseases. These parts are naturally filled with an oily kind of fluid, the use of which is to lubricate surfaces, upon which the tendons play, in their passage over joints. In the healthy state, this fluid is so small in quantity, that it cannot be seen without open- ing the membrane containing it; but, occasion- ally, such an accumulation takes place, that very considerable swellings are the consequence. Tu- mors of this sort are often produced by bruises and sprains, and, now and- then, by rheumatic affections. These swellings are not often attend- ed with much pain, though, in some cases, it is very acute, when pressure is made with the fin- gers. The tumors yield, in a certain degree, to pressure ; but, they rise again, with an appear- ance of elasticity, not remarked in other sorts of swellings. At first, they appear to be circum- scribed, and confined to a small extent of the *joint; but, sometimes, the fluid, forming them, is so abundant, that they extend over a great part of the circumference of the limb. The skin, unless inflamed, retains its usual colour. In this morbid state of the bursae mucosae, they contain different kinds of fluids, according to the cause of the disease. When the tumor de- pends on a rheumatic affection, the contents are ordinarily very fluid. They are thicker, when the cause is of a seroplndous nature. When the disease is the consequence of a bruise, or sprain, tiie effused fluid often contains hard concretions, and, as it were, cartilaginous ones, which are sometimes quite loose, and, more or less, nu- merous. Such substances may frequently be felt, whan the tumor is examined with the fin- gers. In practice, such distinctions are not of much consequence. While the swellings are not very painful, an attempt maybe made to disperse them, by warm applications, friction, .''particularly, with camphorated mercurial ointment,) or blisters, kept open with the savin cerate. But, if these tumors should become very painful, and not yield to the above methods, Dr. .Monro recommends opening them ; a practice, however, which can seldom be really necessary, or proper. This au- thor was continually alarmed at the idea of the bad effects of air admitted into cavities of the body, and, hence, in the operation, even of open- ing the bursa; mucosa;, he is very particular in directing the incision in the skin, not to be made immediately opposite that made in the sac. Care must also betaken to avoid cutting the tendons, near the swelling. Dr. Monro had seen eases, in which amputa- tion became indispensable, in consequence of the terrible symptoms following the opening of bursa; mucosae. On account of such evil consequences, which are imputed to the air, though they would as of- ten arise, were the same practice pursued in a situation, in which no air could have access at all, it has been recommended to pass a seton through the swelling, and to remove the silk, after it has remained just long enough to excite inflammation of the cyst, when an attempt is to be made to unite the opposite sides of the cavity by pressure. I have never seen any swelling of this kind, which could not be discussed, by the means usually employed for promoting the absorption of other tumors. Indeed, the treatment should he very like that of Hydrops articuli. (.Sec Joints.) Consult Monro’s Description of all the Bursa Mucosa;, S)C. with remarks on their accidents and diseases, djc. fol- Edin. 1788. C. M. Koch, dc Morbis Bursarum tendinum mucosurum. c. CfZESAREAN OPERATION. Called also / Hyslerotomia, from icrrepa, uterus, and -roan, sectio. Fliny, hook 7, chap. 9, of his Na- tural History, gives us the etymology of this operation. Auspicatnis (says lie) cnectd parcutc gigvuntur, sicut Scipin Africanus prior natus,pri- musque Catsur a nr so malris vtcro dictus; qua de causa civsoncs appcllati. Sitnili modo nalus est Manlius qiti Carthagincm cum e.rcrcitu intra- vit. From this passage, we are to infer, that the Cmsarean operation is extremely ancient, though £ no description of it is to he found in the works cwftt Hippocrates, Celsus, Paulus AEgincln, or Albu- casis. The earliest account of it in any medical work, is that in the Chirurgia Guidonis de Cau-