UTERUS, RETROVERSION OF. 1129 r5etwe (jbs. sitr la Cure Radicate des plusicurs Polypes, <Jc. Morgagni, de Sedibus et Causis Morborum, Epist. 45. Kulmus, de Uteri Delapsu, Suppressions Urines, et subsequentis Mortis Causa, Gedani, 17S2. White, in Med. Obs. and Inq. Vol. 2. Shaw, in Mem. of the Medical Society of London, Vol. 1. Portal, Cours d’Anatomic Med. T. 5, p. 538, et Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. T. 3. Sabatier, in Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. T. 5, p. 361, and Metlc- cine Operatoire, T. 2. Ducreux, in Mem. de VAcad. de Chir. T. 8, p. 493. Osiandcr, Annulcn, B. 1. p. 175. Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 23, art. Hysteroptose. UTERUS, RETROVERSION OF. Re- troversion of the uterus is said to happen, when fundus is forced downward and backwards, etween the sacrum and the posterior part of the vagina, while its cervix inclines towards the jymphysis pubis. The ancients are thought to b lave had some imperfect notions of this case, ^ land, in proof of this opinion, certain passages [ . ire referred to in (Etius, (Tetrab. 4, Serm. 4, ( C. 77.) Mercurialis, Mercatus, and others. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 23, p. 273.) Be :his as it may, it is generally confessed, that the subject had fallen into oblivion, when Dr. Wm. Hunter called the attention of his pupils to the subject, in 1754, and afterwards drew up an nteresting paper concerning it. {Med. Obs. md Inquiries, Vol. 4, Svo. Land. 1771.) Sub- sequently, the knowledge of the subject was xtended by the observations of Wlzezeek, {De lUtero retroflexo, Prag. 1777,) the remarks of iichter, {Chir. Bibl. B. 5, p. 521, <^- B. 9, >• 182.) and those of Wall, {Diss. de Uteri ctroversione, Hal. 1782,) and by the memoir if Desgranges, to which the prize of the Royal \cademy of Surgery at Paris was adjudged, in .he year 1785. According to Sabatier, retro- ersion of the womb was a case mentioned by jregoire in his private lectures on midwifery, it Paris. Walter Wall, an English surgeon, who had ittended Gregoire, suspected, that he had met vith a retroversio uteri in a woman, some months idvanced in pregnancy, and he called in Dr. lunter, in order to have the advantage of his idvice. The woman was attacked with an obsti- late constipation, and retention of urine, and lied in about a week. A large tumor was found 'ccupying the whole of the pelvis, and pushing the ■agina against the os pubis. It had been found mpracticable to push the swelling back into the bdomen, although the patient had been put on .er knees and elbows, while one hand had been ntroduced into the vagina, and two fingers of he other hand into the rectum. Great curiosity xisted about what information would be afforded •y dissection. On opening the body, the blad- ier, which was exeedingly full of urine, filled boost the whole anterior part of the abdomen, n the same manner ns the uterus does in the ast month of pregnancy. When it had been ■mptied, that part of it, in which the ureters ter- ninate, and which is connected with the vagina nd cervix uteri, was found raised up, a3 high as hi) upper aperture of the pelvis, by a large tu- nor, which tilled the whole cavity of the pelvis, n was found to he the uterus. A catheter, r'i s when passed into the vagina, could be made to lift up the latter viscus and the upper part of the tumor. This portion of the swelling, on which the bladder lay, consisted of the cervix uteri, while the fundus of this organ was situated down- rvards towards the os coccygis and anus. The uterus was so large that it could not be taken out of the pelvis, before the symphysis pubis was divided, and the two ossa innominata were pulled asunder. It was found impossible to assign any cause for the displacement of the uterus, as the patient had been making no exertion, and had met with no fall, though she is said to have been frightened at something just before the complaint commenced. Dr. Hunter, struck with the singular nature of the case, thought it deserving of the attention of medical men, and he made it the subject of a lecture, which he delivered in 1754. He was afterwards consulted by several persons, who were afflicted with the retroversio uteri; but, not in so acute a way, as in the above instance. All the patients were in the third month of preg- nancy, and first suffered a difficulty of making water, succeeded by retention of urine, and after- wards by constipation. Dr. Hunter always emptied the bladder by means of a catheter and glysters, which measures sometimes effected a cure, the uterus spontaneously resuming its na- tural position. In every instance, the accident disappeared, when pregnancy was more advanced, and the uterus had acquired larger dimensions. In some cases, in which Dr. Hunter was con- sulted too late, the trials to replace the uterus proved fruitless, and the women died. Dr. Hunter was so firmly convinced of the impos- sibility of saving patients circumstanced in the above manner, unless extraordinary means were resorted to, that he thought one should endea- vour to diminish the size of the uterus, by intro- ducing a trocar into the body of this viscus, through the posterior parietes of the vagina, so as to let out the water of the amnios, the relative quantity of which is known to be greater in the early, than in the advanced, stage of pregnancy. (See Jour cl in Bulletin de la Faculte de Med. p. 173, an. 1812.) Such a puncture might certainly be the means of the uterus resuming its natural position ; but there would be considerable danger of its exci- ting the contraction of the uterus, and causing abortion. No risk of this kind would be en- countered by puncturing the bladder above the pubes. In this manner, a free passage would be afforded for the escape of the urine, and the re- duction of the uterus might be effected. Mr. Lynn, a surgeoh in Suffolk, knew an in- stance of tiie bladder bursting, and the urine be- coming extravasated in the abdomen, in a case of retroversion of the uterus, in consequence of the patient’s refusal to submit to the preceding ope- ration. The woman was forty years of age, of a relaxed habit, mother of several children, and had been pregnant four mpnths. She had also been for some time afflicted with a prolapsus of the vagina. The swelling had been a few davs reduced, when, in consequence of tripping, she felt something become displaced in her abdomen, and fall towards the lower part of her back. She was immediately attacked with constipation, reten-