708 INFLAMMATION. principal remedy, to which we can trust for a cure. I lie quantity of blood, which in these inflammations it is necessary to take away, varies according to the violence of the inflammation, the temperament, strength, and habits of the patient, and according to the structure, functions, and situation of the organ in which it occurs. From twelve to twenty ounces, or even more, ought generally to be drawn every time we have occa- sion to use the lancet in the cure of inflamma- tion, and bleeding to this extent may be repeated two or three times in the course of the first twenty-four hours, according to the effects which it seems to produce, as well as according to the violence and urgencyof' the symptoms. In in- flammation of internal parts, we judge of the effect of bleeding, and of the necessity of a re- petition, from the feeling and continuance of pain, from the state of the pulse, and also from the appearance of the blood, which has been last drawn. “ A partial, and in some instances, an almost complete'- cessation of pain takes place even during the operation of blood-letting. This is always a favourable symptom, and indicates, that the inflammation has made no great, nor very alarming progress. In other instances, the re- lief from pain, though inconsiderable, at the time of bleeding, becomes afterwards more sensible, and the other symptoms of inflammation abate in nearly the same proportion ; while, in other in- stances again, the pain is either not relieved by the bleeding, or, if relieved, the relief is but of short duration. These last are cases, in which, the other symptoms of inflammation continuing unabated, recourse must be had again to the use of the lancet, and as much blood drawn, as can be done with safety to the patient. “ The changes, which take place in the state of the pulse, either with regard to its frequency, or strength, during, or soon after the abstraction of blood, though they afford criteria, by which we may judge of the state of the inflammation, and of the effects of the bleeding, are by no means marks so sure of the advantage, which has been obtained, as that derived from the cessation of pain. “ In some inflammations of the head, for ex- ample, the pulse is slower, than natural, though it beats with its accustomed, or even with an increased degree of strength. In inflammations also of the peritonaeum, and of the intestinal canal, we find the pulse not much quicker, than natural, small, and contracted. We should de- ceive ourselves, therefore, were we to infer, that an increase of inflammation had taken place, because, in the first instance, the pulse had be- come quicker, and in the second, fuller, and stronger, during, or soon after the abstraction of a quantity of blood. “ The pulse, it may be remarked, has often a contracted, cord-like feel in inflammation, and it may always be regarded as a favourable event, when it becomes softer, fuller, and slower, during, or soon after blood-letting.” (See Thomson’s Lectures on Inflammation, p. 166, 168.) With respect to the huffy coat of the blood, Dr. Thomson states, that it is not by the buffy coat alone, but by the buffy coat, in conjunction with the quantity and firmness of the coagulum, that we must judge of the propriety of any further j detraction. When the buffy coat has a firm and I tenacious consistence, and when the pain con- J tinues unabated, we may conclude, that the in- flammation Is not subdued. But, when the 1 coagulum is soft and easily broken, and when the colour of the buffy coat is changed from a : yellowish to a greenish hue, Dr. Thomson thinks, I that little or no benefit can be derived from bleed- I ing. But, as already mentioned, every prac- I titioner should remember, that, in particular con- I stitutions, and in pregnancy, the blood taken | away naturally exhibits a buffy appearance, in- j dependently of inflammation. The preceding remarks chiefly relate to gc- I neral bleeding; for, in phlegmonous inflam- | mation, topical bleeding is scarcely ever im- j proper. It is always a point highly worthy of I the surgeon’s consideration, whether bleeding in I or near the part will answer better, than taking I the blood from the general habit; for, certainly I less may be removed in this way, so as to have I equal effect upon the part inflamed, and proba- I bly, upon every other disease that is relieved by bleeding, with less injury to the constitution. I Although, in many cases, the general habit is j relieved by bleeding, yet it is the part affected J which most requires this evacuation. That lo- cal bleeding has very considerable effects on the inflamed part, is proved by the sudden relief, | which is often produced by the application of j leeches in cases of gout. The mere use of I leeches, without other measures, will also some- times remove a tumor in the breast, having all the appearances of a scirrhus, which cannot be considered as inflammatory, so that topical bleeding extends its power further, than the mere checking of inflammation. Some part of its effect has been imputed to sympathy. (Hunter.) There are three modes of performing topical bleeding: by cupping; bv leeches; and by dividing, or scarifying the dilated vessels leading to the inflamed part. (See Bleeding.) Upon the head and face, leeches are commonly employed; upon the chest, either leeches or cupping; upon the abdomen, leeches; and upon the joints, either cupping or leeches, j When the eye is inflamed, leeches may either be applied to the adjoining temple; or the di- lated vessels of the conjunctiva may be scarified ; or both methods may be adopted. When the inflammation extends quite to the surface of the bodv, leeches are always most eligible, as their bites cause less irritation in inflamed parts, than the punctures of the scarificator, or the pressure of cupping glasses. Purging. The exhibition of mild laxative j medicines, and saline purgatives, is a principal means of diminishing inflammation. Purging does not produce such lasting weakness as is the consequence of bleeding, and, therefore, it is i scarcely ever omitted, even when the abstraction of blood is deemed improper. Saline purges must | lessen the quantity of circulating blood, inasmuch | as they increase the secretion from the intestinal’ ! arteries; and therefore, they probably operate beneficially in the cure of local inflammation, > much upon the same principle as bleeding. Mr. j Hunter was of opinion, that purging lowers action, without diminishing strength, by which