ULCERS 1073 ..ance of this mode of treatment, and adopted their practice. He then criticises the work iir Everard Home, in which, it is remarked, ; the effect of pressure is not much relied a for the cure of these complaints. Indeed, Mr. Whately, it is stated in that book, not t that no benefit is derived from compression ;veral species of these ulcers, but that many -s are rendered worse, more painful, and > unhealthy in their appearance by its use; iss which it would be impossible for Mr. lately to refute. They are, I conceive, ad- ;d by himself, when he observes, that there ertain conditions of an ulcer, which will not ccompression. Whether Sir Everard Home aot given a sufficiently favourable account e effects of pressure in the cure of ulcers of ;ec, I will not presume to determine; per- , he may not have insisted so much upon r.reatment as it deserves; but, I can find no i with him for speaking of it as frequently ious, because the fact is notorious the cases, published in Mr. Whately’s very little variety of dressing was used ; ure being the principal means of cure, with exceptions particularly specified in the work. . cannot doubt (says Mr. Whately) that the ice here recommended must, in the end, II, notwithstanding it has this great obstacle untend with, that surgeons must condescend, ;ie most part, to apply the bandages with own hands. The clumsy and ineffectual ;er, in which this business is too frequently can never be expected to produce the de- c effect. I am certain, that if the necessary be taken, according to the directions here i town, such effects will uniformly follow, as : convince the unprejudiced mind, thattohave - rse to the operation of tying varicose veins, he application of a great variety of reme- r can be very rarely, most probably never sary. I can safely declare, that all such as are described by Sir E. Home to be by this operation, have readily 3Tielded, the proper management of pressure alone.” th respect to Mr. Baynton’s mode of treat- while Mr. Whately regards it as a con- ion of the principles insisted upon in his ract, he considers the plan of making the ire with adhesive plaster inconvenient, and -eral accounts objectionable. In every ease 1 by Mr. Bavnton, he is sure, that the • application of compresses and flannel ,, would have produced similar good ,. The instances of success by this method, I he supposed failure by the roller, he attri- to the pressure made with the plasters, ; been applied with Mr. Baynton’s own whereas that with the roller, was probably de, that the effect intended by it, could not ly be obtained. No surgeon, he observes, ill not be at the trouble of applying the roller mpresses himself, can bea judge of what may :cted. by the proper management of them. : following is the calamine cerate, which V hately has usually employed: ^Axung. Porcin. depur. lib. iij. ‘-mpl. Plumbi. lib. iss. Lap. Calam. praep. ap. lib. j 0 this formula, (says Mr add another for making a 1 t nearly resembles the unguentum tripharmicum of the old Dispensatory, but being less oily, it makes a much more adhesive plaster. It should be spread on rag, or silk, as an external cover- ing to the dressing on lint, where a tow plaster cannot be conveniently used; as in wounds of the face or hands, a bubo, or any other sore, where an external plaster cannot be readily re- tained in its situation by a bandage. This plaster is likewise so mild, that it never irritates the skin. I have found it also a very useful plaster in fractures. The following is the formula : j^.. Empl. Plumbi. lib. j. Axung. Porcin. depur. unc. vj. Aceti unc. iv. M.” With respect to the proper method of applv- ing the roller and compresses, Mr. Whately offers the following remarks: “ The best width for a flannel roller, de- signed for those who M. Whately,) I cerate, which have slender legs, is three inches; but for those, whose legs are of a large size, they should always be three inches and a half in width. They must therefore be at first torn a little wider, that they may be of their proper width when repeatedly washed. It will likewise be found, that rollers made of fine, soft, and open flannel, will answer much better, than those made of coarse or hard flannel. “ For those who have full sized legs, the length of six yards is but just sufficient to an- swer all the purposes intended by a roller; but in those who have very small legs, five yards is a sufficient length. Care should be taken that the rollers be washed in very hot water, and they should be hung up to dry immediately on being washed. If these precautions be not attended to, repeated washing them will, in some kinds of flannel, make them as narrow as tape, by which they will be rendered almost useless. They should be often washed, as they are much softer, and of course sit easier, when quite clean than when they are soiled. “ In applying a roller, (says this gentleman,) the first circle should- be made round the lowest part of the ankle, as near as possible to the heel; the second should be formed from thence round the foot; the third should be passed again round the foot quite to the toes. The roller should then be passed from the foot round the ankle and instep a second time to make the fourth circle. In doing this, it should be brought nearer (but not over) the point of the heel than it was at the first time of going round this part. 'I he fifth circle should pass over the ankle again, and not more than half an inch higher up the leg than the fourth circle. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth circles should ascend spirally along the small of the leg, at the exact distance of three- fourths of an inch from each other. Having pro- ceeded thus far up the leg, we may begin to in- crease the distances of the circles from each other: they may succeed each other upward to the knee at the distance of from one to two inches, according to the size and shape of the leg. At that part where the calf of the leg commences, it is gene- rally necessary to let the upper edge of the roller be once, twice, or thrice, turned downwards for about half the circumference of the leg, in order to make the roller lay smooth between the middle of the calf, and the small of the leg. When the roller has been thus applied as far as the knee, *> y O tJ