TRI 1054 TRU already too opaque, perfect vision is re-esta- blished. Mr. Saunders directs a piece of thin horn, or a plate of silver, having a curvature corresponding to that of the eyelid, to be intro- duced under this part, with its concavity towards the eyeball. On this instrument, the eyelid is to be stretched. An incision is to he made through the integuments and orbicularis palpebrarum, down to the tarsus, immediately behind the roots of the cilia. The cut should extend from the punctum lachrymale to the external angle. The exterior surface of the tarsus is then to be dis- sected, until the orbital margin is exposed, when the conjunctiva is to be cut through directly by the side of the tarsus, which must now be dis- engaged at each extremity. The punctum la- chrymale must be left uninjured. The operation is described as being simple, and if any embar- rassment arises, it is from the hemorrhage of the ciliary artery, the blood sometimes obscuring the punctum lachrymale, just when the operator is about to divide the tarsus by the side of it. No dressings are required, it being merely necessary to keep the eye covered for a few days. The skin will continue to be elevated, just as the per- fect eyelid was; and, though less completely, yet enough to leave the pupil, clear, when the eye is moderately directed upward. In all the cases, in which Mr. Saunders operated, a fungus grew from the wound. He recommends the excres- cence to be destroyed with caustic, or the knife. Respecting this operation, I shall merely ob- serve, that it is more severe than that advised by Professor Scarpa, and even than the method of Schreger, and must leave greater disfigurement. Unless, therefore, the latter methods prove in- effectual, I should consider the practice unjusti- fiable. Nor is Schreger’s method allowable, ex- cept in cases which resist the milder plan, sanc- tioned by Beer, Scarpa, and all the best practi- tioners in ophthalmic surgery. Inversion of the lower eyelid is much less common, than that of the upper one. The late Mr. Saunders never saw this disease arise from the same causes which induce it in the upper eyelid, though he acknowledges the possibility of such a case. However, he met with several in- stances of the affection, in consequence of en- cysted tumors, which, as they increased, carried the orbital edge of the tarsus outwards, and, in the same proportion, inclined the ciliary edge towards the globe of the eye. An inversion of the inferior palpebra is some- times produced by inflammation and swelling of that part of the conjunctiva, which connects the eyelid with the eyeball. In cases of ophthalmy, this membrane often forms between the latter parts a distinct fold, which is situated just on the inside of the orbital edge of the tarsus, and pushes it outward ; while the contraction of the orbicularis muscle turns the ciliary edge inwards, and inclines it between the swelling of the con- junctiva and the eye. In this particular case, Mr. Saunders assures us, that replacing the eye- lid in the early stage of the disease, and main- taining it so, until the ophthalmy has been less- e.ied by proper means, will be found effectual. But, when the conjunctiva is much thickened and indurated, Mr. Saunders recommends cutting such diseased part of it away, and the application tarsus inward. (See also Travers’s Siinoviii p. 234 and 355.) Albinus has recorded a species of trichiasis, which originated from the growth and inversion of one of the hairs upon the caruncula Jachry. malis. The plan of relief consisted in plucking out the irritating hair; but it is not mentioned, whether the hair grew again. J. Sculletus, Trichiasis Admiranda, tive Morbus Pilaris Mirahilis, 12mo. Norik. IGoflj Scarpa suite principali Malattic degli Occ/tiJ 11. Crampton, Essay on the Entropcon, Land. 1805. Saunders's Obs. on several practical Points relative to the Discuses of the Eye, Edit. 3. Richter's Anfangsgrunde der Wundarxney- kunst, B. 3. G. J. Beer, Lehre von den Au. genhranheiten, B. 2, p. 111 — 117, 8vo. JVicn. 1817. Schreger, Chirurgische Vcrruche, II. 2. Note Methode die Trichiasis zu Opcriren, p. 253, 8vo. Niirnberg. 1818. B. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 232— 354, &c. 8vo. Loud. 1820. TRISMUS, (from Tg»<jw, to gnash the teeth.) The locked jaw. See Tetanus. TROCHAR, or Trocar, (from the French, trois-quart, three-fourths, from its point being of a triangular form.) An instrument used for discharging aqueous fluids, and, now and then, matter from different cavities in the bodv, parti- cularly those of the peritoneum, and tunica va- ginalis, in cases of ascites and hydrocele. Tro- cars are also employed for tapping the bladder, dropsical ovaries, &c, A trocar consists of a perforator, or stilette, and of a cannula, which latter is so adapted to the lirst piece of the instrument, that, when the puncture is made, they both enter the wound together, with perfect ease, after which, the sti- lette being withdrawn, the cannula remains in the wound, ar.d gives a ready passage for the fluid outward. Such are the uses of a trocar, and the princi- ples on which it should be constructed. It would be unnecessary in this work to detail every little particularity in the instrument. I shall merely observe, that the triangular-pointed trocars seem to retain the greatest share of approbation; for, although those of a flat, lancet-pointed shape enter parts with more ease, their cannulae are not large enough for the ready escape of fluids, which are at all thick, gelatinous, or blended with hydatids, and flaky substances. The trocar for puncturing the bladder from the rectum, should be longer than a common trocar, and ’of a curved form ; but, as Mr. Carpue ha* explained, it should not be passed too high up the rectum, lest the peritonaeum be wounded. Surgeons ought always to have, at least, three trocars; one of full size, another of middling Width, and a third of small dimensions. ** ■ cases of hydrocele, the latter is often preferable. TRUSS. (trousse, French.) Brac/icrinm- A bandage, or apparatus, for keeping a hernia reduced. A truss, which fulfils its intention' properly, should compress the neck of the herniB sac, and the ring, or external opening of tW hernia, in such a manner, that a protrusion ot any of the contents of the abdomen will be pre- vented with complete security. Hence, it is the indispensable quality of a good truss, first,