blood, purulent matter, or other fluid effused in he whole of the urine, and the catheter is the ■nlv thing, by which this tluid can be discharged. T'his artificial mode of evacuation, however, only ti’ords temporary relief; for, as the bladder is low in recovering its tone, a relapse would be levitable, if the employment of the catheter •ere not continued. Hence, this instrument mst either be left in the bladder, or introduced . s often as the patient has occasion to make ater. When^i skilful surgeon is constantly at and, or when the patient knows how to pass the itheter himself, Desault thinks it better to in- •oduce the instrument only when the bladder is i be emptied, by which means, the inconvenience ising from the continual presence of a foreign ody, will be avoided. In this case, either a lver catheter, or an elastic gum one, may be sed with equal advantage; but, if the instru- : ent is to be kept in the bladder, one made of .astic gum, and provided with a curved stilet, to be preferred. As in old subjects, the : -ethra is flaccid, a large catheter is generally und to enter more easily, than one of smaller ameter. As the treatment must be continued for a ng while, and the bladder seldom perfectly re- i tins its tone in old age, the patient should be structed how to introduce the catheter him- lf, and he is to pass it whenever he wants to aake water. After a certain time, however, he ..ay try if he can empty the bladder without this strument. When he finds, that he can expel •e urine, he should certify himself by means of ;e catheter, that the last drops of this fluid are ly voided. Should they not be so, he must r rsevere in the use of the instrument. In this sort of retention of urine, it has been oposed to throw into the bladder astringent ejections: Desault tried them; but, he does >t give a favourable report of the practice. Warm, balsamic, diuretic medicines; cold thing; and liniments containing the tinctura tas; have likewise been praised; but, accord- l to Desault, these means frequently prove : rtful to persons of advanced years, and are dom useful. He restricted his own practice the use of the catheter, which, when skilfully iployed, often restored the tone of the bladder, d, when it failed, other means also were inef- tual. A blister over the sacrum may deserve t rial. Passing over the cases of retention of urine, ■ erred by Desault to the effects of intemperance h women, and the immoderate use of diuretic nks; cases, which considerably resemble in ■ir nature and treatment the retention, from • weakened state of the bladder in elderly sons, I proceed to another example of the order, still more interesting to the practical geon URINE, RETENTION OF. Ill7 the vertebral canal, and the effects, which a caries of the spine has upon it; may all operate as so many causes of a retention of urine. This form of the complaint may also be the conse- quence of tumors situated in the track of the nerves, which are distributed to the bladder. Whether the retention of urine, common in typhus fever, arises from an affection of the nerves of the bladder, or from the general de- bility extending itself to the expelling powers, may be a question ; but, the liability of patients in fevers to this disorder should never be out of the practitioner’s recollection. When a retention of urine arises from injury or disease of the spinal marrow, an insensibility and weakness of the lower extremities are almost always concomitant symptoms. The patients suffer very little; most of them are ignorant of their condition; and do not complain of any thing being wrong in the functions of the urinary organs. The surgeon, aware that a retention of urine is common in these cases, should examine, whether there is any interruption of the evacua- tion, either by feeling the state of the abdomen just above the pubes, or by introducing a ca- theter. As this species of retention of urine is only symptomatic, and not dependent upon any pre- vious defect in the bladder, it is not in itself alarming; but, with reference to its cause, it is exceedingly dangerous. Affections of the spine, complicated with injury of the spinal marrow, are often fatal. By means of a catheter, it is always easy to relieve the inconveniences, arising from the bladder not contracting, and thus fulfil the only indication, which this sort of retention of urine presents; viz. the evacuation of the urine. But, this proceeding is merely palliative; and the bladder will not recover its contractile power, until the causes of its weakness are removed. The last then is the main object in the treatment, which must vary according to the nature and extent of the disorder. The consideration in detail of all the means, which may be requisite for the relief of the dif- ferent accidents and diseases of the spine, belongs to other parts of this work. (See Dislocations and Fractures of the Vertebra:; Vertebra:, Dis- ease of.) In shocks and concussions of the spinal marrow, Desault had a high opinion of the be- nefit, resulting from cupping. This was done on, or near the part of the back, which had been struck, and the number of scarifications was proportioned to the strength of the patient. The plan was sometimes repeated the same day, and for several days in succession; and when the patient could not bear the loss of more blood, dry cupping waff employed, which, in this coun- try, would be deemed less efficacious, than stimu- - Uctrniion of Urine from an Ejection of lating liniments or blisters. In diseases of the Nerves of th, r, Nerves of the IVadder.—These nerves may 'affected either at their origin, or in the course their distribution. Injuries of the brain are lorn followed by a retention of urine; but, complaint often accompanies those of the ■ la marrow. A concussion of this medullary •stance, from blows, or falls upon the vertc- colutnn; the injury which it suffers in trac- es and dislocations of the vertebrae, or from i.) ent strain of the back ; its compression by spine, Desault also preferred the moxa, to caustic issues. 3. Retention of Urine from Distention of the Bladder.—Desault thought that this form of the disorder might very properly be called secondary. because it is invariably preceded and produced by a jirin,ary retention. Of course, its remote causes arc all those circumstances, which may bring on the other forms of the complaint; but, its immediate cause depends altogether upon the*