OPHTIIALMY. 893 mtagious ophthalmia, either in regiments, in ilk'll manv of them have been incorporated ; or invalid houses, where others have obtained ieir retirement; or in the individuals belonging i the different classes of society. Such is the ijcction that has been made, and may always be ain urged, against the opinions and observe- rs of the English, respecting the Egyptian hthalmv.” (Roux, Voyage fuitc a Londres 1814, 0.7 Parallels dc la Chir. Angloisc, $c. 49.) Baron Larrey, who admits that the disease ay be communicated by application of the tatter, argues, that it is not contagious in any :her way, because, in Egypt, for want of suf- fient hospital room, patients with this and other seases were mixed together, without the ophthal- .ia being propagated to any of the patients, ho were careful to avoid the above mode of in- ■ction. (Graefe’s Journ. B. 1, p. 179.) Lar- 2v, however, need not have used this reasoning ith us, because it is a mistake in him to sup- ose, that the disease is here commonly regarded s communicable through the medium of the at- nosphere. While, however, English surgeons hiefly explain the extension of the disease by he infectious nature of the discharge when ap- >lied to the eyelids, and Larrey admits that the natter is thus infectious, the latter, as well as loux, assures us, that none of the healthy sol- liers, who came home with the blind invalids fom Egypt, were attacked with this species of phthalmy. A great number of those invalids vere received in the hospital of the guards at aris, and treated there without any of the other atients being infected. (Gracfc's Journ. loc. it.) On my return from the Mediterranean hrough France in 1802, I saw many of the French troops in a town between Marseilles and Lyons, with bad eyes, contracted in Egypt, as- sociating with other soldiers, whose eyes were perfectly healthy, and living in the same bar- racks ; a proof, that the French soldiers, with the exception of climate, or some other protect- ing cause, were placed apparently in circum- stances, in which the disease here made such extensive ravages. This is a point, which I humbly conceive, is not at all solved by Dr. Vetch’s belief, that the difference is explicable by the French troops being sent into the field ; for, in fact, the soldiers with diseased eyes were in barracks, or hospitals, as well as our own troops. But, notwithstanding it seems proved, that the discharge from the eyes in the Egyptian ophthalmy is so actively infectious in England, it appears from an experiment, made by Mr. Maekesy, that its application may sometimes be made to a healthy eye, without the disease fol- lowing as a matter of certainty. This gentle- man, who was surgeon to the G2d regiment, applied to his own eyes linen impregnated with matter discharged from the eyes of patients in the fully formed stage of the disease, and even allowed some of the matter to pass under the eyelids; yet the complaint was not commu- nicated. (See Eilitib. Med. and Surg. Journ. rol. 12, p. 411.) One of the most material circumstances, in w neh the practice of English surgeons differs >nm that of foreign practitioners in cases of severe purulent, and especially Egyptian, ophthal- my, is the freedom and boldness, with which the former attack the disease in its first stage. Mr Peach recommends taking away at once as much as GO ounces of blood; (Ediitli. Med. and Surg. Journ. for January, 1807) and Dr. Vetch lays great stress on the striking benefit of bleeding the patient till syncope is produced. “ When inflammation has its seat in the sclerotic coat, (says this gentleman) general blood-letting may for the most part be dispensed with, and even when employed to the greatest extent, the same benefit does not ensue. In the purulent inflammation of the conjunctiva, however, al- though some good may be derived from deple- tion, yet a perfect command over the disease de- pends less on lowering the system, than on the temporary cessation of arterial action by syn- cope, which it becomes the object of the operation to produce. This practice, besides its efficacy, will accomplish the cure with a much less ex- penditure of blood, than is occasioned by the repeated bleedings generally had recourse to, where this method of rendering one equal to the cure of the complaint has been neglected. Some time before the approach of faintness, the redness of the conjunctiva fort'he most part disappears; but this is no security against the return of the disease, if the flow' of blood be stopped, without deliquium animi succeeding.” (Vetch on Dis- eases of the Eye, p. 206.) The attacks of a painful sensation, as if gravel were in the eye, are considered by this gentleman as a proof of the disease increasing, and are regarded by him, in the early stage of the disease, as a better indi- cation of the necessity for bleeding, than the ap- pearance of the eye itself. With respect to applications, Dr. Vetch speaks very highly of the beneficial effects produced in the beginning of the. case by dropping into the eye the undiluted liquor plumbi subaceta- tis, vdiich, he says, diminishes the discharge, lessens the inflammation, and is incapable of doing harm in any stage of the disease. He places great confidence in the salutary results of a free exposure of the eye to the atmosphere; and speaks in high terms of the good derived from applying at night to the eye an infusion of tobacco, two drams of the leaves to eight ounces of water. “ It possesses (says Dr. Vetch) the valuable properties of acting as a powerful astringent, restraining the purulent discharge, and diminishing the oedema, or external swelling of the palpebrae; at the same time, that its narcotic qualities often relieve the pain and the perpetual watchfulness, which the largest doses of opium cannot subdue.” (P. 211.) Bleeding, how- ever, is the “ sheet anchor,” and the only means of preventing the destruction of the cornea, whenever attacks of pain in the eye, or orbit, denote the unsubdued state of the disease. (F. 212.) When the disease shifts its violence from one eye to the other, and is of long dura- tion, Dr. Vetch recommends cupping, and the eye to be more carefully cleaned by the injection of tepid water, or any gentle astringent lotion, and afterwards wiped dry. When the discharge continues acrid and scalding, he directs blisters to be applied to the nape of the neck, and behind the ears. He wishes it to be distinctly kept in mind, that, the time for the employment of bleeding, with the view of saving the eve is