238 BRONCHOTOMY. Ionic Chirurg. T. 1, />. 408, <3fY. Petit, (Fuvres Posthuines, I. 1, p. 25!t. Haller, Opuscula Pallwlogiat, Obs. 5, p. 16. J. L. AUberl, Naso- logic Naturelle, T. 1, p. 464, Ac ; f,L Paris, 1817. Fur the best plates of the disease, see Dr. Bail he's Series nt Engravings, <V. Ease. 2, Tab. I. LLONCIIO TOMY. (from /Bpoy^oj, the windpipe, and Ttgty&i, to cut.) This is an opera- tion, by which an opening is made into the larynx, or trachea, either for the purpose of making a passage for the air into, and out of, the lungs, when any disease prevents the patient from breathing through the mouth and nostrils; or of extracting foreign bodies, which have ac- cidentally fallen Into the trachea; or, lastly, in order to be able to inflate the lungs in cases of sudden suffocation, drowning, &c. The ope- ration is also named tracheotomi/. Its practicable nature and little danger are founded on the facility, with which certain wounds of the wind- pipe, even of the most complicated kind, have been healed, and on the nature of the parts cut, which are not furnished with any vessel of con- sequence. When the incision is made in the larynx, the operation is termed larpngoionni. With respect to bronchotomy, its performance cannot be regarded as either difficult, or dangerous : dunemode, (says Fabrieius ab Aquapendente) qui seeat sit anutomes peritus, quia sub hue medico el artifice, omnia hi t mime ct feliehsimi peragu-»tur. Bronchotomy is occasionally practised in order to enable the patient to breathe, when respiration through the mouth and nostrils is impeded by disease. Cynanche laryngea sometimes creates a ne- cessity for the operation, and this is particularly the case, when the disease is situated in the edges of the rima glottidis, which opening becomes so contracted as scarcely to leave the smallest space. For this reason, and on account of the tension of the ligaments of the glottis, the voice is rendered excessively acute, and hissing as it were. The suffocation is imminent; the lungs not being ex- panded, the blood accumulates, in these organs, and more or less impediment prevails to the re- turn of the blood from the head. There can be little doubt, that many patients who have perished under these circumstances, might have been saved by a timely incision in the trachea. The majority of writers, who have treated of bronchotomy, ns a means of preventing suffocation in inflamma- tory diseases of the larynx, have regarded this operation as the ultimate resource. Both the Greeks and Arabians were of this sentiment; and Avicenna only recommends bronchotomy in violent cases of cynanche, when medicines fail, and the patient must evidently die from the un- relieved state of the affection, lihazes also ad- vised the operation only when the patient was threatened with death. Thus in former times, though practitioners were aware of the principle, on which bronchotomy became necessary, tiny generally found the operation fail, because it was delayed "too long, and rarely done, ere effusion bad commenced in the lungs themselves. It was doubtless in consequence of the ill- success of the operation, that Paulus TEgineta observed: hi cpnunchicis quidnn cutrurginm im- probamus, cum inuitlis sit jneccisio. Lroncho- lj tomy, says Louis, will always be done too k when only practised as an extreme measure, cases of inflammation about the throat, the dangejl of perishing by suffocation, as this author remark* has been known from the very dawn of medicin< The advice of Hippocrates, to remedy this urgertj symptom, is a proof of it, and, he observes, thaJ the danger is evinced when the eyes are aflectesj and prominent, as in persons who have bee* strangled, and when there is great heat about thl face, the throat, and neck, without the appearand of any external defect. lie recommends fistulri in fuuc.es ad mnxillas intrudenda, quu. spiritus in palm ones trukalur. No doubt, he would hav(| advised more, had it not been for the doctrine ol his time, that wounds of cartilages were in-f curable. This method, defective as it was, continued! till the time of Asclepiades, who, according tc» Galen, was the first proposer of bronchotomy. Since Asclepiades, this operation has always beenl recommended, and practised in cases of quinsy, threatening suffocation, notwithstanding the in- culcation of Caelius Aurelianus, who treated it; as fabulous. The mode of doing it, however, has not been well detailed by any body who put it in practice, except Paiuus /Fgiueta, who is precise and dear. “ We must (says he) make the in- 1 cision in the trachea, under the larynx, about 1 the third or fourth ring. This situation is the I most eligible, because it' is not covered by any muscle, and no vessels are near it. The patient’s head must be kept back, in order that the trachea may project more forward. A transverse' cut is to be made between two of the rings, so as not to wound the cartilage, onlv the membrane.” The O 7 knowledge of this method, and its advantages in cases of the avgina struiigulnns, when, practised in time, ought, according to Louis, to have ren- dered its performance a general practice. The convulsive angina of Boerhaave, which C particularly affects those, who can only breathe well in an upright posture, has also been ad- duced as a case demanding the prompt per- formance of bronchotomy. Mead, in his Pre- cept a et Manila Medico, mentions a case, in which the patient had been bled very copiously twice in the space of six hours, but he died not- withstanding this large evacuation. The same author took notice in Wales, especially, on the sea-coast, of an epidemic catarrhal quinsy, which carried the patients off in two or three days. In these instances, bleeding was not of much use. and bronchotomy, which was not performed, was the only means by which the patients might have been saved. In cases of angina and croup, some modem practitioners have been less sanguine in their ex- pectation of benefit from bronchotomy than Louis was. From the observations of Dr. Cheyne, it would appear; that in croup, the operation can- not be necessary for the purpose of admitting air into the trachea; for. in those, who have died ol the disease, lie has found a pervious canal of two- righths of an inch in diameter, and through a tube of such diameter, even an adult can sup- port respiration for a considerable time. Accord- ing to the same writer, bronchotomy is equally unfitted for the removal of the membrane former by the effusion of lymph ; for. from its extent.