80.9 MERCURY. scrotum there were several warty excrescences of considerable size. Mr. Booty, assistant stall surgeon, prescribed mercury, by which they were certainly cuntf with surprising expedition. In this particular case, I think the plan of treatment adopted was the best, because, on account of the number of excrescences, and the situation ot some of them at the lower and back part ot the scrotum, it would have been dillicuit to have treated them altogether by local applications. PREPARATIONS FOR INTER NAT, EXHIBITION. occasions, it will fail of affimliWg the least ad-* Vantage to the patient, from tirst to last. I do- sometimes, indeed, employ this preparation in venereal cases; hut it is cither at the beginning of a mercurial course, to bring the constitution under the influence of mercury at an early period, or during a course of inunction, with the intention of increasing the action of simple mer- cury. I sometimes, also, prescribe it after the conclusion of a course of frictions, to support the mercurial influence in the habit, in order to guard against the danger of a relapse. But, on no oc- casion whatever do I think it safe to confide in The acetite of mercury is supposed to be a mild preparation, and was the active ingredient in the celebrated Keyser’s pills. In solution it iias also been recommended to be applied cx- ternallv for the removal of some cutaneous af- fections. It may 1 e made into pills with crutn of bread. Tiie (lose is troni one to five grains every night. When it is wished to excite a salivation quickly, when mercurial ointment alone will not produce this effect, or cannot be employed, and when fumigations are not convenient nor agree- able, the hvdrargyri oxydum rubrum is often pre- scribed. The common dose is a grain, which may be increased to two, a day. It is apt, how- ever, to disagree with the stomachs and bowels of many patients ; an inconvenience sometimes ob- viated by conjoining the preparation with opium. At present, the hydrargyrus cum er'eta is rarely or never prescribed for the cure of the venereal disease. But it is frequently prescribed as a mild alterative lor children in doses of from gr. v. to gr. x. twice a day, blended with any viscid substance. The oxymuriate of mercury (corrosive sub- limate) was a medicine highly praised for its antisyphilitic virtues by the celebrated Van Swicten, and, indeed, there is no doubt, that, like other preparations of mercury, it possesses such qualities. It retains great reputation even now, and, probably, will always do so. How- ever, like the red oxide, it sometimes deranges the stomach and bowels, and from some sur- geons does not receive the same degree of con- fidence, in respect to its power over syphilis, as mercurial frictions. Mr. Pearson remarks, that “ when the sublimate is given to cure the primary symptoms of syphilis, it will sometimes succeed; more especially when it produces a considerable degree of soreness of the gums, and the common speoific effect of mercury in the animal system. But it will often fail of removing even a recent chancre; and where the symptom has vanished during the administrations of corrosive sublimate, I have known a three months’ course of that medicine fail of securing the patient, from a con- stitutional affection. The result of my observa- tions is, that simple mercury, calomel or calcined mercury, arc preparations more to be confided in, for the cure of primary symptoms, than cor- rosive sublimate. The latter will often check the progress of secondary symptoms very con- veniently ; and I think it is peculiarly efficacious in relieving venereal pain3, in healing ulcers of the throat, and in promoting the desquamation of eruptions. Yet, even in these eases, it never confers permanent benefit; for, new symptoms will appear during the use of it; and, on many this preparation singly and uncombined, for the cure of any truly venereal symptom.’’ (Pearson on Lucs Venerea.) The dose of oxymuriate is a quarter of a grain. The following is a common mode of ordering it: Jy. Hvdrargyri oxmuriatis gr. I. Aqiue Nueis Mosehatae ^ij. Misce. ^ss. Omni noete sumenda. The muriate of mercury (calomel) is not very much used by modern surgeons for the cure of the venereal disease. Sometimes, indeed, it is given in cases of gonorrhoea, both with the view of preserving the constitution from infection, and keeping the bowels regular. It is more ex- tensively given as an alterative, and for the cure of such surgical diseases as require the system to be slightly under the influence of mercury. It generally proves actively purgative, when more than two or three grains are given. The most simple preparations of mercury have generally been deemed the most effectual in eradicating the venereal disease. The pihihe hvdrargyri are the most simple of the internal formula:, being merely mercury triturated with mucilaginous or saccharine substances. Next to mercurial frictions, they are, perhaps, most fre- quently employed for the cure of the incipient form of the venereal disease, that is, while a chancre is the only complaint. They are also very commonly given in all stages of the dis- ease, to aid mercurial frictions in bringing the system under the influence of the specific'remedv. Ten grains of the mass, kept for these pills, is the usual dose. When they purge, opium will sometimes prevent this effect. See Venereal Disease. Mercury is employed both constitutional!y and locally in numerous surgical cases; for the removal of indolent thickenings and indurations of parts ; for tiie relief of porrigo, herpetic dis- eases, tetanus, hydrophobia, hydrops nrtieuli, iri- tis, and a multitude of other affections, which need not here be specified. MEROCELE. (from /aisoc, the thigh, anil a»jXri, a tumor.) A femoral or crural hernia. See Hernia. MEZEREON was recommended by Dr. A. Russell for a particular class of venereal sym- ptoms, in the following terms : “ The disease, for which I principally recommend the decoction of the mezereon root as a cure, is the venereal node that proceeds from a thickening of the membrane of the bones. In a thickening of the periosteum, from other causes, I have seen very good effects from it: and it is frequently of service in the removal of those nocturnal bains, with which venereal patients are aillieted; though.