NECROSIS. 839 — [ the prognosis doubtful, when the disease is ex- tensive, and complicated with other affections, either of the same, or different bones; when it attacks bones, which are of high importance on account of their functions, or situation ; when it is situated in the interior of the bone, and affects several parts of it; when it arises from an in- ternal cause, for which there is no certain and quick-acting specific ; when the patient is weak- ened by age, or disease; and especially, when the sinuses extend into the neighbouring articu- lations. (Weidmann de JVecrosi Ossium, p. 22.) The process of cure is said to take place with more celerity in the lower jaw, than any other bone, and may be completed in three months. Mr. Russell has never known a necrosis of the tibia get well in less than a year; but, in gene- ral, nearly two years elapse first; sometimes, the cure is protracted to a much greater length of time. Necrosis of the lower jaw and clavicle never proves fatal: that of the lower extremities, which is the worst case, does so very seldom, and only from the violence of the first inflammatory sym- ptoms, which rapidly bring on a hectic fever, which proves incurable, unless its local cause be re- moved by a timely amputation. When the vio- lence of the first stage, however, has abated, the irritation ceases, and the hectic symptoms, if there are any, are generally moderate. Nor is this state of tranquillity disturbed, till the sequestrum, in making its way outward, again produces irri- tation. At this second period of urgency, ex- tensive inflammation may originate, ulcerations spread all over the surface of the limb, assume an unhealthy appearance, violent fever succeed, and the patient either perish, or sink into a state, in which he must consent to amputation, as the only means of saving his life. This is the last crisis of imminent danger ; but, in general it is less perilous, than when the inflammation comes on in the incipient stage of necrosis. (Russell.) In the treatment of necrosis, the first grand object of the surgeon should be to aid nature in her endeavours to effect a cure, and not to dis- turb her operations by any superfluous, or un- seasonable interference. The second should be to assist her sometimes by the boldest proceed- ings, when she loses her way, and cannot by herself accomplish the end. But, in order not to attempt any thing wrong, the surgeon must understand correctly what na- ture does in this disease, what it is in her power to perform; what she either cannot accomplish at all, or not with any degree of certainty; and lastly, the circumstances in which she may err, and endanger the patient’s life. When a portion of bone dies, nature uses all her endeavours to bring about its separation from the part of the bone, which still remains alive. Surgeons have denominated this process, exfo- liation, (see this word,) which resembles the separation, that occurs between parts affected wiih gangrene and sphacelus, and the living flesh. An exfoliation of bone, however, happens much more slowly, than the separation of a slough of l.e parts. Neither are all exfoliations com- [> eted at a regular period; for they proceed most quickly during youth, when the constitu- tion is usually more full of energy, the bones more vascular, and less replete with solid inor- ganic earthy matter. On the other hand, the process is slower, in old, debilitated subjects, whose vitality is less active. A thin small scale of bone separates sooner, than a large thick por- tion ; and the most tedious exfoliation is that of a thick bone, from which a portion, including its entire diameter, is coming away. The separation of a necrosis takes place more expeditiously in bones of a light texture, than in those of a solid structure; and sponer, in the less compact parts of bones, such as the epiphyses and spongy sub- stance, than in those of greater density. When a necrosis has originated from the scurvy, syphilis, &c. and appropriate remedies are not administered, nature cannot effectually ac- complish the process, by which the dead bone is separated ; the case becomes worse; and life endangered. The separation happens precisely at the dif- ferent points where the living and dead parts of the bone come into contact; and it is obvious, that the particles of the dead bone, which are at a distance from the part, that retains its vitality, cannot be acted upon by it. A variety of opinions have been entertained, concerning the means employed by nature in effecting this separation. Hippocrates believed, that the dead part was pushed away by a fleshy substance, which grew underneath it. (De Cap. vuln. Cap. xxiv.) Ludwig, Aitken, Bonn, and many others, adopted the same idea. (See Ad- versaria Med. Pract. Vol. 3, p. 63 ; Syste- matic Elements of the Theory and Practice in Surgery, p. 287. Thesaur. Oss. Mori), p. 1.) Van Swieten conceived, that the dead part was forced away by the incessant beating of the arte- ries. (Comment. inAphor. Bocrrhavii, § 252.) M. Fabre ascribed the separation to the exten- sion and expansion of the vessels. (Mem. de VAcad, de Chir. Tom. 4, p. 91.) Others sup- posed that the exfoliating piece of bone became loosened partly by the suppuration, and partly by the rising of the new granulations. (See B. Bell on Ulcers.) As Weidmann observes, there is unquestion- ably a reddish fleshy substance formed between the dead and living bone, and which Celsus has noticed under the appellation of caruncula. (De Medccina, lib. 8, cap. 3.) But, it would be erroneous to refer the expulsion of the dead por- tion of bone to it, since it can never be produced, before a change has taken place in the structure of bone, there being in fact no space for it to grow in ; and hence, it is never seen before the disunion of the parts has considerably advanced. There must consequently be some other power, which destroys the cohesion between the dead and living bone, and produces the groove, or interspace, in which the soft granulations arise. Besides, amongst other facts proving the falsity of the idea, 'that the granulations push oft the dead bone, Weidmann particularly adverts to the occasional exfoliations of the whole circum- ference of a cylindrical bone. Here, il the granulations had the power of causing a disunion on one side, they could not have the same effect on the opposite one; but would tend to make the contact more intimate.