.. „ i M till 11 mil 076 SCROTUM. j>. 448, fol. Paris. 1820. Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 50, art. Scrofules, 8vo. Paris, 1820. E. A. Lloyd on the Nature and Treatment of Scrophula. 8vo. Loud. 1821. SCROTOCE'LE. (from scrotum, and wm, a tumor.) A rupture, or hernia in the scrotum. SCROTUM, CANCER OF. (Chimney- sweepers Cancer. The soot-wart.) Mr. Pott gives the following account of this peculiar dis- order. “ It is a disease, which always makes its first attack on, and its first appearance in, the inferior part of the scrotum ; where it produces a super- ficial, painful, ragged, ill-looking sore, with hard and rising edges: the trade call it the soot-wart. I never saw it under the age of puberty, which is, I suppose, one reason why it is generally taken, both by patient and surgeon, for venereal, and being treated with mercurials, is thereby soon and much exasperated: in no great length of time, it pervades the skin, dartos, and mem- branes of the scrotum, and seizes the testicle, which it enlarges, hardens, and renders truly and thoroughly distempered ; from whence it makes its way up the spermatic process into the ab- domen, most frequently indurating and spoiling the inguinal glands: when arrived within the abdomen, it affects some of the viscera, and then very soon becomes painfully destructive. “ Other people, besides chimney-sweepers, (says Pott,) have cancers of the same part; and so have others, besides lead-workers, the Poictou colic, and the consequent paralysis : but it is nevertheless a disease to winch they are pecu- liarly liable; and so are chimney-sweepers to the cancer of the scrotum and testicles. “ If there be any chance of putting a stop to, or preventing this mischief, it must be by the immediate removal of the part affected; I mean that part of the scrotum where the sore is; for, if it be suffered to remain until the virus has seized the testicle, it is generally too late even for castration. I have many times made the ex- periment ; but though the sores, after such operation, have, in some instances, healed kindly, and the patients have gone from the hospital seemingly well, yet, in the space of a few months, it has generally happened, that they have re- turned either with the same disease in the other testicle, ordn the glands of the groin, or with such wan complexions, such pale leaden coun- tenances, such a total loss of strength, and such frequent and acute internal pains, as have suf- ficiently proved a diseased state of some of the viscera, and which have soon been followed by a painful death. “ If extirpation ever bids fair for the cure of a cancer, it seems to be in this case; but then the operation should be immediate, and before the habit is tainted. The disease, in these people, seems to derive its origin from a lodgment of soot in the rugae of the scrotum, and at first not to be a disease of the habit. In other cases of a cancerous nature, in which the habit is too fre- quently concerned, we have not often so fair a prospect of success by the removal of the dis- tempered part; and are obliged to be content with means, which I wish I could say "cie truly palliative: but here the subjects are young, in in all probability local; which last circumstance may, I think, be fairly presumed from its always seizing the same part: all this makes it (at first) a very different case from a cancer, which appears in an elderly man, whose fluids are become acri- monious from time, as well as other causes; or from the same kind of complaint in women who have ceased to menstruate. But be all this as it may, the scrotum is no vital organ, nor can the loss of a part of it ever be attended with any, the smallest degree of inconvenience; and if life can be preserved by the removal of all that por- tion that is distempered, it will be a very good and easy composition; for when the disease has got head, it is rapid in its progress, painful in all its attacks, and most certainly destructive in its event.” (Pott's Works, Vol. 3. See also W. Simmons's Cases and Ohs. on Lithotomy, to which are added Obs. on Chimney-sweeper's Cancer. 8vo. Manchester, 1808.) SCROTUM, Sarcomatous Thickening and Enlargement of. The investigations of Baron Larrey lead him to believe, that cases of enor- mous growth of the scrotum are endemial in warm countries, or, at least, that they are seldom observed in cold climates ; since most of the ex- amples, which have been seen in Europe, came from Asia and Africa. The scrotal tumor of Delacroix, formerly minister of external rela- tions, says Larrey, is perhaps the only well au- thenticated instance of the origin of such a dis- ease in our own climate; and it wras also much smaller, than the instances related in the Ephe- merides German, for the year 1692, in the sur- gical writings of Dionis, in the 9th vol. of the Bibliotheque de Mtdecine, and those which Lar- rey was surprised to meet with in Egypt. The smallest of these latter, after they had attained their full size, weighed more than 2.5 kilograms (between 6'0 and 70 pounds). Several cases of this curious disease are re- corded by other writers, particularly by Dr. Cheston, Dr. Tilley, and the celebrated San- difort. I lately saw in Mr. Abernethy’s mu- seum, a considerable fleshy substance, which was a portion of diseased scrotum. In the cases, which Larrey had an opportunity of seeing in Egypt, the fleshy mass, into which the scrotum was converted, was broad below, and suspended from the pubes by a sort of pedicle. “ Externally (as Larrey observes , the tumor presents rugosities of different sizes, separated by particular lines, or sinuses, to which the mu- cous cryptae and roots of the hairs correspond. Upon a large portion of its surface, especially when the case is of long standing, yellowish scaly crusts are always seen, the detachment of which constantly leaves so many small herpetic ulcers* which emit an ichorous discharge. The tumor is indolent, and hard at some points, but softish at others. It maybe handled, and pressed in different directions, without the least pain. 1 he patient is only incommoded by its weight, and the impediment which it causes to his walking well. Hence, he is necessitated to employ a suspensory bandage. In consequence of the si- tuation of the urethra, the urine dribbles over the swelling; but without causing any excoriation. In most of the cases, seen by Larrey, the sper-