535 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. over the lint, so as to keep it moist, or if such lint has not been spread with some mild salve, or dipped in oil, I deem it a good rule to apply an emollient poultice over it the evening pre- ceding the morning, on which the dressings are to be first changed. By this means, they will be loosened, and admit of being taken away without pain or irritation. With the same view, plenty of warm water should be squeezed from a sponge, and allowed to fall upon the dressings. Pledgets of oil, or ointment, should generally be taken off' earlier than dry lint, for they are less adherent, and, in warm weather, soon become rancid and irritating. For the first days, the matter seldom assumes a healthy appearance; but as soon as the sloughs separate, it then becomes of aproper quality, and the wound is to be treated as a simple abscess. Sometimes the healing process does not com- mence, though suppuration has prevailed a eon- ! siderable time. On the contrary, notwithstand- I ing the exhibition of tonics, and a generous diet, t the suppuration ceases to proceed favourably, and the wound becomes unhealthy, and the mat- ter thin. The bones shew no disposition to | unite, and the patient, reduced by hectic sym- ptoms, is rapidly approaching dissolution. In :his state, life may sometimes be preserved by L imputation; the anceps, but unicum remedium. »Ve ought never to be deterred from undertaking he operation by the fever and weakness, which i requently soon disappear when the local cause I s s removed. OF AMPUTATION IN CASES OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. The 2nd edition of this dictionary, published in ; 813, contained all the valuable observations of ! :!aron Larrey, in favour of immediate ampu- ltion in every instance, in which the operation ; considered indispensable. Since then, the ' ublic have been favoured with several good : radical books, in which the propriety and ne- ■ ;ssity of early or immediate amputation in such ; ises are urgently inculcated, and the truth of le doctrine is illustrated by additional facts. It to be observed, however, that for nearly two rndred years past, there have always been some Locates for this judicious practice. “ Du hesne (says Dr. J. Thomson) is the first writer \ i military surgery, in whose works I have i und the recommendation to amputate in the ! verer injuries of the extremities; and, it is | D orthy of remark, that he directs the operation be performed before inflammation and other J rnstinitional symptoms sha'l have supervened.” 1 ‘'iee Trait6 de la Curege'neraleel pai ticuliire des 1 rebusudes. Par Jos. DuChesne; Paris, lb'25, 143; and Thomson's Report, #r. p. 160.) Hseman not only recommended and practised imediate amputation; but the same thing was )t unfrequently done by the military surgeons his time. {Chirurgical Treatises, by H. Wise- ■ “"» 3d Edit. London, 1696, p. 410.) The ■lebrated Le Dran. in his excellent little ma- ial of military surgery, declared himself an Locate for immediate amputation in all cases, which that operation from the first appears ' be indispensable. Le Dran has at the same me stated briefly, but most distinctly, the com- parative advantages of that practice, with those which may be expected by delay. (See 'fraiti oil hfflexions tiroes de la Pratique sur les Plaies d’Amies d feu. Par U. F. Le Dran ; d Paris, 1737.) Ranby, who was serjeant surgeon to King George II. entertained similar opinions to those of Le Dran, with regard to the utility of immediate amputation. In order to give imme- diate relief to the wounded, and to facilitate the performance of the necessary operations, Ranby proposed, that the surgeons, during battle, should be collected into small bodies, and stationed in the rear of the army. (See the Method of treat- ing Gun-shot Wounds. By John Ranby. Edit. 3, p. 29, London, 1781.) After the battle of Fontenoy, in the year 1756, the Royal Academy of Surgery in France offered a prize for the best dissertation on the gun-shot injuries requiring immediate ampu- tation, and on other cases of the same nature, where the operation, though deemed inevitable, might be delayed. L’amputation Plant abso- lument neeessaire dans les plnyes compliquees de fracus des os, et principalement celles qui sont faites pur armes d feu, determiner les cas oil il Juut faire I’operution sur le champ, et ceux ou il convient de la difjprer, et en donner les raisonsJ’ The prize was adjudged to the dissertation of M. Faure, the main object of whose paper was to recommend delaying the operation. The side of the question espoused by 1VI. Faure has found some modern advocates of distinguished talents and celebrity. Suffice it to mention the names of Hunter, Baron Percy, and Lombard. It is, however, only justice to M. Faure to state in this place, that, though lie regarded immediate amputation as full of danger, he admitted, that there were several kinds of injuries of the extre- mities, in which it was indispensably and imme- diately required. “ The enumeration (says Dr. Thomson) which this author has given of these injuries is more full and distinct than any which had been published before his time; and, what may appear singular, it does not differ, in any essential respect, from the enumerations given by later writers, who, in combating his opinions, have represented him as an enemy to ampu- tation in almost all injuries of the extremities.’* (See Report of Observations made ir. the Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 169.) In 1792, Baron Percy, who was a few years ago at the head of the medical department of\the French army, published a book, in which he gives a preference to delaying amputation at first, even in cases where it is certain, that the operation cannot ultimately be dispensed with. (See Manuel de Chirurgien d'Armee ) Even as .ate as 1801, Lombard, Professor in the Military Academy of Strasburgh, defended the doctrines of M. Faure. (See Clinique Chirurgicule des Plaies lakes par armes a feu.) Although, in France, the academy of surgery thought proper to decree the prize to M. l<aure, whose doctrine thus received the highest appro- bation, yet, in that country, very opposite tenets were set up by some men of distinguished talents and extensive military practice. Thus Le Dran, consulting surgeon to the French army, in his work on gun shot wounds, published in 1737, expressly states, “ That when the amputation