NECROSIS. 0-18 times from the tibia, and four times from the thigh-bone, with perfect success. (Vid. Man. dc la Sock16 lloy ale de Medecinc, Tom. 4.) The method consists in exposing the bone, and making in it an opening of sufficient size for the removal of the loose dead fragments. Experience has proved, not only that patients, affected with necroses, easily bear this operation, but, also, that, after its performance, the ulcers commonly heal very favourably, the health be- comes re-established, and the functions of the part affected are hardly at all impaired. Surgeons, however, are not indiscriminately to choose any period for doing the operation. If they are too hasty, they will run a risk of find- ing the dead portion of bone still adherent to the adjacent parts; and, if they delay too long, the patient may be irrecoverably reduced, while the new bone, on account of the hardness which it has now acquired, cannot be so easily perforated. Patients are met with, who have been afflicted with necrosis several years. In such cases, great circumspection is necessary, and the prac- titioner should carefully endeavour to ascertain, that the dead pieces of bone have not been ab- sorbed, or come away piecemeal in the discharge, lest an useless operation should be done, as once happened in the practice of M. Bousselin. (Man. de la Socicte-Royalc de Medccinc, T. 4, p. 304.) Therefore, when the disease is of long continuance; when the discharge is much less than it was at the commencement; when small pieces of bone have at times been voided ; and the sequestrum cannot be felt with a probe; it is doubtless, says Weidmann, most prudent to abandon all idea of operating, and allow nature to finish what she has so well begun. In short, when the sequestra are undergoing a gradual ab- sorption, without ever making their appearance externally, or giving any considerable disturb- ance to the constitution; or, when the dead bone is making its way outward without occasioning urgent inconveniences ; the surgeon should in- terfere very little with the natural progress of the case. When the dead bone does not tend to make its way through the skin, but lies quietly concealed in the new osseous shell, the occur- rence of extensive suppurations may be prevent- ed, by occasionally applying leeches, and keeping open a blister with the savine cerate, as recom- mended by Mr. Abernethy in his lectures, and Mr. Crowther, in his work on the White Swell- ing. The blister will, at the same time, have great effect in promoting the absorption of the se- questrum, and, of course, in accelerating the process of cure. If the surgeon operate as soon as the seques- trum becomes loose, he will find the new bone so soft, that it can be divided with a knife; a circumstance, which materially facilitates and shortens the operation. Keeping in mind the foregoing precepts, the surgeon is to begin with exposing the bone, in which the sequestrum is contained. When the bone lies immediately under the skin, Weidmann recommends making such incisions as will lay bare the whole of its surface, and when its situa- tion is deeper beneath the muscles, he even sanc- tions cutting away as much of the flesh, as may be necessary to allow the instruments to l.^j freely worked upon the bone. I cannot, howi ever, see the propriety of this advice: exposing the whole surface of the bone in the first i: 4 stance, before it is known, whether the saw neujl be so extensively used as to require such a del nudation, certainly appears irrational. And, ad for cutting av'ay any portions of muscle, thui can be no more necessary here, than it is in tlicj operation of trephining. But, it is unquestion- ably proper to make with the bistoury sufficient j space for the use of whatever instrument is em-§ ployed for the division of the bone. Yet, it id ;? only necessary to make this exposure in the firsts i instance in one place. The surgeon can after- [* wards enlarge the incision, or practise others, as | circumstances may indicate. The surface of tbel % bone being brought into view, if the cavities, in: ; which the dead fragments lodge, present aper- j tures, which are too narrow, these apertures musk; I be rendered larger by means of small trephines, I or saws constructed on the principles of thosejjj 9 described by Mr. Hey, of Leeds. The perpendi- cularly acting wheel-like saw, turned by machinery,, •3 n rl 1 VI iron I or! I-v-rv "7\ Tn nit l» nun 1 . , cuiany acting wneei-lik'e saw, turned by machinery,, . and invented by Mr. MacHell, here promises also i] to be of important assistance. It has been used by Sir Astley Cooper, who has given an engrav- ing of it in his Surgical Essays, Part 1. PI. 8. Fig. 7- And another saw, constructed on some- what similar principles, has been employed by Graefe of Berlin with great advantage for se- veral years. A tract, giving an account of it, was sent to me by the late Dr. Albers, a little before his death; but, as I have now lent the publication to Mr. Stanley for the purpose of as- sisting Mr. Evans in the construction of the in- strument, I shall merety add, that Graefe’s saw is turned by a handle, which projects horizontally from the cutting part of the instrument, and that it has a frame, or fulcrum, on which it works. With such instruments the pieces of bone ex- tending across the above openings, and impeding the extraction of the sequestra, mayT also be re- moved. But, when the preceding cavities are closed on every' side, and it is impossible to reach into them in any other way, than through the cloaca;, a trephine is to be applied, which must comprise within its circle a half of the fistulous opening. The crown of the trephine, however, must not be broader than the cavity of the bone, nor yet nar- rower than the sequestrum. If, after making a perforation in this manner, the sequestrum should be found too large to pass through the opening, a small saw must be em- ployed for enlarging the aperture. When the bone is so hard and thick, that it cannot be well cut with a saw, the surgeon has the sanction of authority, and experience, for using a gouge and mallet. When the sequestrum is found to be very- large, it will be necessary to expose more of the surface of the bone by' incisions. In this sort of case, Weidmann recommends applying the tre- phine to the upper and lower parts of the cavity', and then cutting away the intervening portion of bone with the saw, or gouge. But, there can be no doubt, that a more prudent way would bo to go on with the enlargement of the aperture in the bone, fit the place where the first perforation