ANUS. 187 out the extent of the discoloration. This generally happens to persons, whose habit is either naturally bad, or rendered so by intem- perance. In each of these different affections, the whole maladv is often confined to the skin and cellular membrane underneath it; and no other symp- toms attend, than the usual general ones, or such as arise from the formation of matter or sloughs in the part immediately affected. But it also often happens, that, added to these effects, the patient is made unhappy by complaints arising from an influence, which such mischief has on parts in the neighbourhood of the disease; such as the urinary bladder, the vagina, the urethra, the luemorrhoidal vessels, and the rectum; pro- ducing retention of urine, strangury, dysury, bearing down, tenesmus, piles, diarrhoea, or obstinate costiveness; which complaints are sometimes so pressing, as to claim all our atten- tion. On the other hand, large quantities of matter and deep sloughs are sometimes formed, and great devastation committed on the parts about the rectum, with little or no previous pain, tumor, or inflammation. Sometimes the disease makes its first appear- ance in an induration of the skin, near to the verge of the anus, but without pain or alteration of colour ; which hardness gradually softens and suppurates. The matter, when let out, in this case, is small in quantity, good in quality; and the sore is superficial, clean, and well-conditioned. On the contrary, it now and then happens, that although the pain is but little, and the inflammation apparently slight, yet the matter is large in quantity, bad in quality, extremely offensive, and proceeds from a deep crude hollow, which bears an ill-natured aspect. The place also where the abscess points, and where the matter, if let alone, would burst its way out, is various and uncertain. Sometimes it is in the buttock, at a distance from the anus ; at other times near its verge, or in the perineum, and this discharge is made sometimes from one orifice only, sometimes from several. In some cases, there is not only an opening through the skin, externally, but another through the intestine into its cavity: in others, there is only one orifice, and that either external, or internal. Sometimes the matter is formed at a consider- able distance from the rectum, which is not even laid bare by it; at others, it is laid bare also, and not perforated : it is also sometimes not only denuded, but pierced; and that in more places than one. All consideration of preventing suppuration, is generally out of the question: and our busi- ness, if called at the beginning, must be to nio- derate the symptoms; to forward the suppuration; when the matter is formed, to let it out; and to treat the sore in such manner, ns shall be most likely to produce a speedy and lasting cure. When there are no symptoms which require particular attention, and all that wc have to do is to assist the maturation of the tumor, a soft poultice is the best application. When the dis- ease is fairly of the phiegmonoid kind, tho inner the skin is suffered to become, before t ie abscess be opened, the better; as the indura- tion of the parts about will thereby be the more dissolved, and, consequently, there will be the less to do after such opening lias been made. This kind of tumor is generally found in people of full, sanguine habits; and who, therefore, if the pain be great, and the fever high, will bear evacuation, both by phlebotomy, and gentle cathartics : which is not. often the case of those, who are said to be of bilious constitutions; in whom the inflammation is of a larger extent, and in whom the skin wears the yellowish tint of the erysipelas; persons of such kind of habit, and in such circumstances, being in general seldom capable of bearing large evacuation. When the inflammation is erysipelatous, the quantity of matter formed is small, compared with the size and extent of the tumor; the dis- ease is rather a sloughy, putrid state of the cellular membrane, than an imposthumation; and therefore, the sooner it is opened, the better: if we wait for the matter to make a point, we shall wait for what will not happen; at least not till after a considerable length of time : during which, the disease in the membrane will extend itself, and consequently, the cavity of the sinus, or abscess, be thereby greatly in- creased. When, instead of either of the preceding appearances, the skin wears a dusky, purplish- red colour; has a doughy, unresisting kind of feel, and is very little sensible : when these cir- cumstances are joined with an unequal, falter- ing kind of pulse, irregular shiverings, a great failure of strength and spirits, and inclination to doze, the case is formidable, and the event generally fatal. The habit, in these circumstances, is always bad; sometimes from nature, but much more frequently from gluttony and intemperance. What assistance art can lend, must be adminis- tered speedily; every minute is of consequence ; and if the disease be not stopped, the patient will sink. Here (says Pott) is no need for evacuation of any kind : recourse must be immediately had to medical assistance; the part affected should be frequently fomented with hot spirituous fomenta- tions; a large and deep incision should be made into the diseased parts, and the application made to it should be of the warmest, most antiseptic- kind. This also is a general kind of observation, and equally applicable to the same sort of disease in any part of the body. Our ancestors have thought fit to call it in some a carbuncle, and in others, by other names: but it is (wherever seated) really and truly, a gangrene of the cel- lular and adipose membrane: it always implies great degeneracy of habit, and, most commonly, ends ill. Strangury, dysury, and even total retention of urine, are no very uncommon attendants upon abscesses forming in the neighbourhood of the rectum end bladder: more especially if the seat of them be near the neck of the latter. They sometimes continue, from the first attack of the inflammation, until the matter is formed, and has made its way outward: and sometimes lasts few hours only. The two former most commonly are easily relieved by the loss of blood, and the use of gum arable, with nitre, &c. But in the last (the total retention), they who have not often seen