1177 WHITLOW. is distinguishable kes place under the nail, in which case, the pain severe, and not unfrequently shoots upward, far as the external condyle. The second kind of whitlow is chiefly situated the cellular substance under the cutis, and, for e most part, occurs at the very end of the jger. In this sort of case, the inflammatory rmptoms, especially the pain, are far more vio- :at, than in other common inflammations of not £ A.eater extent. However, although the pain is us severe, it does not in general extend far om the part affected. Writers usually impute ;s violence of the pain, and the considerable de- tee of inflammation attending the complaint, to hard and unyielding nature of the skin on the uger. To the same cause they also ascribe the irfieulty of perceiving any fluctuation, after titter is formed; and the slowness, with which :e pus makes its way outward. The third kind of whitlow nm the others by the following circumstances, "ith the most excruciating pain, there is very : tie swelling in the affected finger, but, a vast :al in the hand, particularly, about the wrist, and . er the whole fore-arm. The pain extends to e hand, wrist, elbow, and even the shoulder, hen suppuration takes place, a fluctuation can ver be felt in the finger, though it may very ten be distinctly perceived in the hand, at the ■fust, or even somewhere in the fore-arm. The Iflise is frequently accompanied with consider- We fever. The disease is seated in the tendons :d their sheaths, und the power of moving the rgers, ami even the whole hand, is lost. . Authors describe the fourth kind of whitlow, arising principally from an inflammation of periosteum. The case is attended with one < culiarity, which is, that, however violent the in may be, it never extends to the hand, and |r -e-arm, nor is there any external swelling of : affected finger. Suppuration generally fol- vs very soon, the usual consequence of which a carries, or rather a necrosis, of the subjacent ger-bones. ’ Whitlows commonly begin on the inside of ; fingers; but, they do occasionally commence the back of these parts, and even on that of : hand. Though pain about the wrist is usually 2 effect of inflammation in the finger, Acrel mtions a case, in which the disorder was alto- ther confined to the hand itself. (Vorfalle, Hi. p. 191.) Mr. Wardrop has favoured the public with an count of a particular species of whitlow, which, mm its malignant character, he has denominated :; onychia maligna. “ The commencement ' this disease is marked by a degree of swelling, a deep red colour, in the soft parts at the root the nail. An oozing of a thin ichor after- • rds takes place at the cleft formed between the >t of the nail and soft parts, and at last the soft -ts begin to ulcerate. The ulcer appears on : circular edge of the soft parts at the root of ■ nail, it is accompanied with a good deal of elling, and the skin, particularly that adjacent the ulcer, has a deep purple colour. The ap- uance of the ulcer is very unhealthy, the edges ang thin and acute, and its surface covered th a dull yellow, or brown coloured lymph, d attended with an ichorous and very fetid dis- charge. The growth of the nail is interrupted, it loses its natural colour, and at some places ap- pears to have but little connexion with the soft parts. In this state (says Mr. Wardrop) I have seen the disease continue for several years, so that the toe, or finger, became a deformed bul- bous mass. The pain is sometimes very acute; but, the disease is more commonly indolent, arid accompanied with little uneasiness. This disease affects both the toes and the fingers. I have only observed it on the great toe, and more fre- quently on the thumb, than any of the fingers. It occurs, too, chiefly in young people; but, I have also seen adults affected with it.” (War- drop in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 135, 136.) The causes of whitlows are generally of a local nature. Writers enumerate the following as the most common : a contusion ; suddenly warming the finger when it is exceedingly cold ; pricks with needles, or other sharp instruments ; and the insinuation of irritating matter into scratches on the finger. A surgeon, in operating for a fistula in ano, has been known to cut his finger, and have in consequence of the accident a very severe and dangerous kind of whitlow. Richter also mentions a person, who had a most obstinate whitlow, in consequence of a slight wound on the finger, in examining the head of a horse, that had the glanders. Sometimes, the cause of a whitlow depends on a splinter, or thorn, which continues lodged in the part. Very often, no particular cause whatever can be assigned for the complaint. The first case, which occurs about the root of the nail, ought to be opened as soon as possible. When this plan is not adopted, the matter is apt to penetrate more deeply, reach the root of the nail, and occasion a loss of this part. When an effectual opening is not made, the matter collects again. In general, a detachment of the cuticle takes place, as far as the abscess extends. When the inflammation has been very violent, and the matter has made its way as far as the root of the nail, the nail itself is in general gradually de- tached, while the denuded portion of the root of the nail acts on the sore as a foreign body, and hinders it from healing. Hence, the surgeon should repeatedly cut away as much of the lower edge of the nail as he can, and insinuate a little soft lint between the margin of the nail and the sore, in order to keep the latter from being irri- tated by the former. In proportion as the old nail gradually separates, a new one makes its ap- pearance. When matter lies under the nail, an opening should be made through the part, as speedily as possible, for the discharge of the abscess. In order to perform this operation, Richter advises the surgeon to scrape the nail with a piece of glass, till it is as thin as it can well be, when it may be cut through with a bistoury. In the second species of whitlow, suppuration may sometimes be prevented, and the inflamma- tion be resolved, by the timely employment of proper means. When the pain is violent, and acute fever prevails, it may be advisable to bleed the patient. In a few severe cases, the applica- tion of three or four leeches to the affected finger has been known to procure prompt relief.