WOUNDS. 528 GUN-SHOT may come on, when the slough is detached, al- though no material quantity of blood may have been previously lost. (See Hunter, p. 525.) Thus, several days after the receipt of the wound, and when all danger from inflammation is over, a bleeding per anum, occasioned by the separa- tion of a slough from some internal vessel, may destroy the patient, as happened in a very in- teresting case reported by Mr. Guthrie. (P. 13, Ed. 2.) A soldier of the 2d battalion of the 44th regiment was shot in the ham at the assault of Bergen-op-zoont in 1814. There was no he- morrhage for ten days; but, at the end of this period, the popliteal artery gave way, and I was obliged to take up the femoral artery, by which means the bleeding was effectually stopped, and the man recovered. This fact, and another re- lated by Baron Boyer, (Annmire Med. Chir. de Par is j p. 364, 4to. Paris, 1819,) prove, that a ligature on the femoral artery may sufficiently check the current of blood through the popliteal artery to put a stop to hemorrhage from a wound in it; and, though such practice in some other cases of wounded arteries is inefficient, on account of the facility with which the blood passes through the anastomoses into the part of those vessels be- low the ligature, (See Arteries.) its general suc- cess, in gun-shot wounds of the ham, would be of infinite advantage, not only on account of the difficulties of taking up the popliteal artery itself (difficulties ably depicted by Scarpa), but because laying open the inflamed and diseased parts would frequently have a fatal termination. At the same time, 1 would have surgeons always recollect the important difference between an aneurismal and a wounded artery; for, as in ,the first case, there is no outlet for the blood, the transmission of this fluid into the part of the vessel below the ligature may keep up a pulsa- tion in the tumor, and retard the cure of the dis- ease, but is attended with no risk of hemorrhage : while the same ffee passage of the blood into the wounded portion of a large artery would give rise to dangerous bleeding ; and hence, the general necessity of applying two ligatures, one imme- diately above, the other below, the aperture in such a vessel. A single ligature on the brachial artery fails, as 1 had an opportunity of seeing in Holland in a case of gun-shot wound, where either that vessel, or the commencement of the radial, or ulnar, gave way, on the loosening of the sloughs, and, as there was considerable swelling, oedema, and inflammation of the limb, threaten- ing gangrene, the surgeon, under whose care the patient was, deemed it right to perform amputa- tion. I should be sorry, if these observations were to hold out any general encouragement of the wrong and dangerous practice of applying only one ligature above a wound in a large arterv. or in anv recent case of jdisc dijjitsed aneurism. The remarks, delivered above, were chiefly intended to refer to gun-shot wounds of the ham, villi in- jury of the popliteal artery, and hemorrhage first breaking out several days after the receipt ol the wound, when all the parts behind the knee are enormously swelled, and in a state of inflamma- , tion and suppuration. Here the hope of avoid- ing any additional violence, or injury of the dis- eased parts behind the knee, may lie a good rea- son for taking the chance of slopping Hie blced- ing by a ligature applied to the femoral artery; a reason, however, which would not exist in the case of a recent wound of the popliteal artery with a knife. At the same time, I believe, this means of checking the current of blood will not alwavs suffice, and that occasionally either the dangerous expedient of cutting open the swelling in this diseased state of the ham, and of applying a ligature .above and below the aperture in the popliteal artery must unavoidably be encountered, or amputation performed. Why the first plan has answered in some cases, and not in others, may depend upon the size and condition of the wound, or opening in the artery; and, in ex- amples of sloughing, upon the degree in which the tube of the vessel may have been closed by the adhesive inflammation. Some wrong conclusions may' also have been made, respecting the trunk of the vessel being wounded, or opened, while in fact only a branch of it was concerned. As a qualification, therefore, of any inferences, which might be drawn from the partial success of apply- ing one ligature only in cases of large wounded arteries, I annex the following remarks, pub- lished some little time ago in an ably conducted periodical work. “ It appears to us, that some of the cases, which M. Roux has given, as the most favourable for the operation of Hunter, are the least so; for example, he performs it in the cases, where aneurism has formed in consequence of the wound of the artery. In support of this, he gives two cases, where, upon the authority of M. Mirault, of Angers, the ligature of the artery above the wound was sufficient. In one ease, the humeral was the artery said to be wounded; in the other, the femoral. We doubt if the fe- moral were really wounded in this case; for, on referring to the report, we do not find sufficient evidence of that fact; it appears more probable, that a branch only was wounded. We have seen the operation of Hunter performed unsuccess- fully in two cases of aneurism, consequent upon a wound of the artery'; and we have Seen the preparation of a third case, where the same operation was performed and failed; that is to say, the inosculations were so free, that hemor- rhage returned by the lower orifice. In the first case, the popliteal artery' was ruptured by a spi- cula of bone. The second was a wound of the femoral artery by an iron spike: and the third was a stab of the femoral artery by a knife. In each of these cases, the hemorrhage returned by the lower part of the artery. There is, in the Bulletins de la Faculte de Medecine, for 1818. a case by the same Mirault, of an aneurism of the femoral artery, in consequence of a wound some considerable time before. Mirault operated according to the method of Hunter, that is, he tied the artery above the aneurism. The sac burst, two hemorrhages ensued, and the second carried off the patient on the fifteenth day' after the operation. (N B. Here, however, it is proper to remark, that, if the case had been a true aneurism, and the sac had burst, while a stream of blood wak yet passing through it, as always happens for some days after the ligature of the artery , above the tumor, hemorrhage would have occurred just as it did in the present case of false aneurism. The premature bursting of the tumor, in fact, converted the case directly into one, analogous to a wounded artery, the blood