1047 TREPHINE. . paralytic, is affected with convulsions; the se is full and hard; and the respiration ster- ous; in short, the symptoms are analogous to . se caused by apoplexy. Hie evacuating plan, recommended for the .tment of concussion, (see Head, Injuries of) II that can be done, when every thing is un- ain relative to the situation of the extravasa- . It is all that can be done in those frequent , ances, where the effusion has taken place in substance of the brain, so that it cannot pos- / be voided. The trepan then is indicated 7 when there is an extravasation between the i mater and the bone, the fracture being situ- at a part of the skull accessible to instru- ts, and not at the base. We will not here 11 upon the doubtful example, where the fluid .between the dura mater and the arachnoides. , are the cases, which havejust been described, requent as they are supposed to be? Cannot ffi'used blood be sometimes discharged through interspaces of the broken pieces of bone? Is trepan usually necessary for the relief of inju- of the head, as Quesnav, Pott, and the mem- of the French Academy of Surgery main- ed? Many of the best surgeons now think —The operation is.often useless, and some- es dangerous. I believe that it should be ted to a small number of cases, in which not • the existence and situation of the pressure inown, but in which the symptoms, arising i! this cause, are urgent and dangerous, and aressure can be removed by no other means, -icherand contends, that extravasations be- n the skull and the dura mater, so consider- . as to produce compression of the brain, and er the trepan necessary, are much less com- . than many surgeons think. Even when do occur, the dura mater is always detached certain extent, and, according to this writer, le bone is much broken, the interspaces of | ’ragraents are quite sufficient for the evacua- of the effused blood. The following case is ed in proof of this observation. A woman ed her bead, by falling from a height of fif- feet. The fracture reached the whole dth of the skull, so that when the os frontis taken hold of with one band, and the os oc- is with the other, the two halves of the era- admitted of being manifestly moved and •ated. Blood issued from the fissure, the s of which were kept apart by a small wedge ood in such a manner that the pulsations of uain were visible. On the sixth day, as no- ; was discharged from the fissure, the bit of l was removed, and on the fifty-second the id had completely healed without any exfo- ns. On the seventy-second, the patient discharged from the Hotel-Dieu, perfectly 1. (Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 292, Edit. aus we see, that the trepan is not always ssary in injuries of the head with fracture of skull, notwithstanding there may be some ee of bleeding from the edges of the bone. doctrine is very different from what is ht in the memoirs of M. Qucsnay in the volume of those of the French Academy of ;ery, Desault in the last years of his prac- abandoned the operation of the trepan alto- er. It had been remarked for many years, that, in the Hdtel-Dieu, this operation was al- most always unsuccessful; a circumstance, which once excited a suspicion, that the foul air of the wards of that establishment might have a share in bringing on the unfavourable event. I shall not here expatiate on the bad effect of the at- mospheric air on the membranes of the brain ; a thing, of which B. Bell seems to have convinced Richerand. When the skull is fractured by a blow, or fall, and the case is a simple fissure, the trepan ought to be applied upon the solution of continuity', if the symptoms indicate a dangerous degree of pressure on the brain, and the edges of the frac- ture are not sufficiently' separated to let the ex- travasated fluid escape. When the detached portions of bone are de- pressed, so as to compress the brain, the opera- tion is still requisite, if they cannot be elevated, by other means. But Richerand maintains, that a positive indication for trepanning is not fre- quent, either because it is difficult to judge of the existence and situation of extravasations, or be- cause extravasated fluids readily escape through the interspaces of the fragments, when there is a splintered fracture. Such facility is also in- creased, when one of the portions of broken bone is totally detached, so that it can be re- moved, leaving an aperture equivalent to what would be produced by the application of the tre- pan. When the operation is determined on, it is. more convenient to have the head shaved : in- deed, this is often done immediately the surgeon' is called, in order that he may have a better op- portunity of seeing what parts of the scalp have been struck; for, it is in such situations, that he has most reason to apprehend fractures of the bone, or extravasations beneath it. If, however, the violence has occasioned a large wound, or laceration of the scalp, the practitioner, knowing where the force has been applied, is frequently content with having a little of the hair shaved off the parts surrounding the injury’. All that need be said on this subject is, that it is alway’s- better to have enough of the hair taken away, to afford the surgeon an uninterrupted oppor- tunity of examining the scalp freely, and doing whatever may be necessary’. The loss of a little hair is of very little consequence, while the concealment of the seat of a depressed frac- ture, or extravasation, might lead to fatal con- sequences. When the propriety and necessity of trephi- ning are fully indicated, provided the wound, or laceration of the scalp, should not have exposed a sufficient surface of the bone for the applica- tion of the crown of the trephine, an adequate dilatation of such wound ought immediately to be made. If, in the situation of the blow, there should only be a contusion, or a lump, unattended with any wound, a division of this part of the scalp is to be made by carrying the knife quite down to the bone. In those cases, in which the swelling, occasioned by the violence, is consider- able, and attended with the sensation of a crepi- tus; as well as in other instances, in which there is only a contusion, under which a fracture and displaced pieces of bone may be felt; the scalp must be divided in the same manner, only with greater caution, lest the point of the knife should