INFLAME -htlip) are calculated either to lessen the con- .ents of the morbidly distended vessels, or to •xcite these vessels to expel them. The gene- -al means are regulated by the effects, produced jy the disease or) the more distant vessels, through the medium of the nervous system ; the objects of this part of the treatment being, neither to allow the action of these vessels to fall so low, that it is incapable of supporting any degree r>f circulation in the debilitated vessels, nor to become so powerful, as farther to distend by gorging them •with blood. Thus, when the symptoms of active inflammation run h igh, we lessen the vis a tergo ; when gangrene is threat- ened, we increase it.” (IV. Philip, on the Vital Functions, p. 285, Ed. 2.) In short, as soon as the fact is established, that a strong flow of blood towards an inflamed part tends to aggra- vate the disorder, all difficulty ceases in recon- ciling the usual means of relief to that theory of inflammation, which takes into the account a retarded state of the circulation in the distended capillaries. The means employed for the relief of inflam- mation have been cursorily noticed in a pre- ceding article. (See Antiphlogistics.) We shall now devote a few pages to a more particular con- sideration of them. Removal of exciting causes,— In all cases, the first circumstance, to be attended to, is the re- moval of all such exciting causes as may happen to present themselves. If the irritation of a splinter were to excite phlegmonous inflamma- tion, who would not of his own accord directly take away the extraneous body? In wounds, fo- reign substances frequently excite inflammation, and ought to be taken away as speedily as pos- sible ; splintered pieces of bone often give rise to the affection, and require removal; the head of a bone, being out of its place, may press and in- flame the part on which it lies ; and who does not immediately see the propriety of putting it back into its natural situation? These and other similar exciting causes may often be detected and removed at once, and this is doing a great deal towards the cure and even the prevention of inflammation. However, many of the exciting causes of this affection are' only of momentary application; yet, though they no longer exist, the process of inflammation must follow, as a kind of salutary operation, without which, the injured or- ganization, and tone of the parts, still remaining, could not be rectified again. Hence, besides taking away the remote cause, whenever this can be done, it is proper to moderate, by other means, the increased action of the larger arteries, and lessen the velocity of the blood’s motion towards the inflamed part. Bleeding.—As there is reason to believe, that, in common inflammation, a greater quantity of blood is impelled towards the inflamed part, than in the natural state, and experience proves, that nothing has a more powerful effect in checking the disorder, than diminishing the determination of blood to the part, bleeding must be a principal means of relieving inflammation : it lessens the action of tin; whole sanguiferous system, and, of course, of that part of it, which is directly con- cerned in regulating the quantity of’blood trans- mitted to the part affected. On the principle also ATION. 707 of lessening the whole mass of blood in the cir- culation, it must have a similar effect. Bleeding, however, is often misemployed, especially when regarded as the only remedy for inflammation, and other steps are neglected. The general obstinacy and vehemence of the process in weak constitutions prove, that bleed- ing is not invariably proper, and in such indi- viduals it often appears, as if their general irri- tability and the difficulty of curing the inflam- mation were in a ratio to their weakness. When inflammation is complicated with disorder of the chylopoietic, blood should be taken away with great circumspection. A great deal of induration, with little pain and heat in the inflamed part; the probability of a long and copious suppuration, as is the case in many compound fractures; and the connexion of the inflammation, with a want of tone in the part; are particular instances, in which the practitioner should be sparing of this evacuation. Bleeding is sometimes quite unnecessary, when the local inflammation and symptomatic fever are trivial, when the patient is feeble or very old, and when the cause of the affection can be entirely re- moved. ( Richter.) On the other haml,Jdeeding is highly bene- ficial where the inflammation is uncomplicated with any previously existing disorder of the gas- tric system, while it is considerable in extent and degree, and attended with a good deal of febrile disturbance. The same practice is also strongly indicated, when the part affected is very sensible, and highly important, in regard to its office in the system. Thus the lancet must be freely employed in acute ophthalmy, or inflammation of the eye, which is a most sensible part; and in inflammation of the lungs, brain, or stomach ; organs, the sound state of which is essential to the regular continuance of all the various ope- rations in the animal machine; and if a success- ful effort be not promptly made to stop such in- flammation by the most vigorous means, death itself will be the result. In general, bleeding may be said to be indi- cated, when the patient is young, robust, and plethoric; when the cause of the disorder can neither be removed nor diminished ; and when there is a very strong motive for wishing to avoid the formation of matter. Inflammation of the eye is a case, illustrative of the truth of the last observation; for, if suppuration take place in this organ, the common consequence is so serious a destruction of its internal structure and organization, that the future restoration of sight is totally impossible. In the examples, falling under the conditions specified as requiring blood to be taken away, it is sometimes necessary fre- quently to repeat the evacuation. The efficacy of bleeding is greater, the sooner it is practised, and the more suddenly the blood is evacuated. Bleeding near the part affected is usually more effectual, than when done in a re- mote situation. Hence, in inflammation of the eye, or brain, it is often considered most advan- tageous to take blood from the temporal artery. “ In many inflammations, particularly those of the parts contained in the three great cavities of the head, chest, and belly, general blood-letting (says a judicious writer) if not the only, is the Z Z 2