CAESAREAN OPERATION. 2G5 lustily any positive conclusion, respecting the nature of the case, before the ordinary time of parturition. In many women, the gravid uterus in- clines to one side, and numerous pregnant females have dragging pains, which may depend upon other causes. Things, however, are different when the foetus has lived to the ordinary period of parturition, and the woman is attacked with labour-pains; because, besides the unequivocal signs of the presence of a child in the abdomen, the womb is empty, and is little changed from j its common state. Should we now, asks Saba- |j tier, have recourse to the Caesarean Operation, just as if the foetus were in the womb ? Can we ] be sure, that the pouch, which contains the child, j ■ will contract itself, like the uterus, and that the incision, which is in contemplation, will not give rise to a fatal hemorrhage ? Would it be easy to separate, and remove the whole of the pla- centa? How could the discharge, analogous to a the lochia, find an outlet, and would not its ex- travasation in the abdomen, be likely to prove Ej fatal ? Sabatier thinks, that the risk, which is I to be encountered, is much less, when things I are left to nature. The child, indeed, must s inevitably perish. It will either give rise to ab- I scesses, with which it will be discharged in I fragments, or it will remain for a length of time I in the abdomen, without any urgent symptoms, y "Sabatier also calls our attention to the great pre- fa cariousness of an infant’s life, and expresses his I opinion, that, there can be no difficulty in de- ji riding what conduct ought to be adopted, r i Happily, practitioners are not often placed in ; circumstances so delicate, and extra-uterine con- ; ceptions mostly perish, before the end of the I, common period of gestation. We have then only to second the efforts of nature; either by : cromoting suppuration, if it should seem likely : o occur ; by making a suitable opening, or en- i arging one that may have formed spontaneously ; |] i jy extracting such fragments of the foetus as pre- A ; sent them selves; bybreaking the bones, when their arge size confines them in the abscess, as Littre |j lid in an instance, where the abscess burst into 1 c he rectum; and, lastly, by employing suitable | 11 njections. (See Subatier’s Medecine Operatoirc, "o/n. 1.) An extremely uncommon case of extra-uterine i| onception, was related a few years ago by I osepiii: the foetus having at length passed into he bladder by ulceration, and caused such af- detion, as renderedan incision into that receptacle | B idispcnsable, with the view of extracting the i ;| arts of the foetus lodged in it. The operation H as done above the pubes; but, the internal mis- i | hief already existing was so great, that the * (patient did not recover. (Utber die Schwanger- t B :haj't ausserhalb der Geb'drmutter; Rostock, ; -803. 8to.) Govei, p. 401, relates a case of ventral con- I eption, in which instance the Caesarean Opera- p on was done, and the child preserved. A lady, P ged 21, had a tumor in the groin, which, was : first supposed to be an epiplocele, but an rterial pulsation was perceptible in it. In about •n weeks, the swelling had become as large as ■pound of bread. Govei, solicited by the lady, pened the tumor. He first discovered a sort I membranous sac, whence issued a gallon of a limpid fluid. The sac was dilated, and a male foetus found, about half a foot long, and large in proportion. It was perfectly alive, and was baptized. After tying the umbilical cord, the placenta was found to be attached to the parts just behind, and near, the abdominal ring; but it was easily separated. Govei does not mention whether the mother survived; but the tliino- would not be very astonishing, considering the situation of the foetus. Bertrandi says, he was unacquainted with any other example of the Caesarean Operation being done, in cases of extra-uterine foetuses, so as to save both the mother and infant. This eminent man con- demned operating, in ventral cases, on the ground that the placenta could not be separated from the viscera, to which it might adhere, or, if left behind, it could not be detached, without such inflammation and suppuration, as would be mortal. But if, in addition to such objections, says Bertrandi, the operation has been proposed by many, and practised by none, we may con- clude, that this depends on the difficulty of judg- ing of such pregnancies, and of the time when the operation should be attempted. Pie puts out of the question the dilatations, which have been indicated for extracting dead portions of the foetus, and also Govei’s case, who operated without expecting to meet with a foetus at all. [Bertrandi Traiti des Operations de Chirurgie, Chap. 5.) Whenever the Ctesarean Operation, or gas- trotomy, has been performed, the practitioner is not merely to endeavour to prevent inflamma- tion, heal the wound, and appease any untoward symptoms, which may arise; he should also pre- vail upon the mother to suckle the child, in order that the lochia may not be too copious, and, after the wound is healed, she should be advised to wear a bandage, for the purpose of hindering the formation of a ventral hernia, of which, according to surgical writers, there is a considerable risk. Fr. Roussetus; Ccesarei Partus Assertio Histo- riologica, dfr. 8to. Paris, 1590. Fr. Roussetus, Fcetus vivi ex niulrc viva sine alterutrius periculo Caesura. 12mo. Basil. 1591. Theoph. Raynaud, De Orlu Infantium contra Nuturam per Sectioncm, Caesar cam, ftc. 12/no. Lugd. 1637. A. Ci/pria- nus, Epistola Historium exhibens Fcetus humani post 21 menses ex uteri tuba, matre salva, ac superstite, cxcisi. 8m. Lugd. Bat. 1700. This is the celebrated case, related by Albosius at the end of Bauhin's Transl. of Rousset. J. B. Verduc, Traiti des Operations de Chirurgie; mnivelle Edit. 12mo. Par. 1721. Sabatier’s Medecine Operatoire, T. 1, Ed. 2. Recherches sur I’Operution Cesarienne par M. Simon, in Mini, de l’Acad. Roy ale de Chirurgie, Tom. 3, p. 210, ftc. and Tom. 5, p. 317, ijjc. Edit, in 127/10. Bertrandi Traite des Operations de Chirurgie, Chap. 5. Buudclocque’s Traiti: des Accouchement, Paris, 1807. Denman s Introduction to Mid- wifery, 4to. 1805. Also Obs. on the Rupture of the Uterus, ftc. 8t’o. 1810. Hull’s Defence of the Caesarean Operation, 8vr. Manchester, 1798. Also his Letters to Mr. IK. Simmons. Iluighton’s Enquiry concerning the true and spurious(arson au Operation. P. Bcrtcn, Dc Scctionc Sigoultiaum cl Cavsarctt, hurumque Scctionum inter sc ( ompu-