8.5.5 NOL If NIT oners give it ns follows: R. Gum. Arab. ;iv. aqua? menth. fviij. acid, n'itrosi, vel nitric! "ij ~ jij. F. M. Of this mixture, a table spoon- ul is to be taken every hour mixed with some weetened water. Should the acid occasion colic, r diarrhoea, its quantity must be lessened, and ,pium added to the mixture. As the nitrous and nitric acids decompose nd destroy the teeth, some care must be taken i prevent "so serious an effect. Their being pro- ,erly diluted, and blended with sugar, syrup, or nucilage, will materially tend to hinder the evil, lot the safest way is always to drink the mix- ure through a glass tube, and wash the mouth ,v’l immediately after every dose. Strong nitrous acid, extricated in the form of apour, is often employed as a means of purify- nil the air of large crowded hospitals and ick-rooms; a subject, on which the observa- ions of Dr. J. C. Smyth and G. de Morveau ire particularly interesting. The nitrous acid is ;ometimes taken by accident, or design, as a ooison. Here, according to the observations of Tartra, Orfila, &c., the best antidote is calcined nagnesia, or soap. If the first of these articles re at hand, a dram of it, suspended in a glass of .vater, is to be instantly given, followed by co- rious draughts of some mucilaginous drink, the design of which is to fill the stomach, and excite t to reject the diluted poison. While the voinit- ng is going on, the doses of magnesia are to be •epeated, and followed as in the first instance by Iraughts of linseed tea, solution of gum arabic, nilk, or broth. The nitrous acid has also been extensively ried as a means of curing syphilitic complaints, in the form of svhat is termed the nitro muriatic bath, of which a description will be given in -peaking of the Venereal Disease. When reiterated courses of mercury induce dropsy, as not unfrequently happens in very im- paired constitutions, Mr. Carmichael prescribes the nitrous acid, in as large doses as the stomach will bear, conjoined with digitalis. (Essays on Venereal Diseases, S(c.) Taken in doses of eight, ten, or fifteen drops, two or three times a day, it is alleged to be efficacious in the cure of some eruptive complaints, especially of thelower extremities, connected with disorder of the liver. (Wilson's Pharm. Chir. p. 6.) Another well informed writer also bears testimony to its good effects when used together with mercury, for old obstinate ulcerations of the legs, though no ve- nereal taint can be suspected; and, he says, it may be applied with benefit as a local stimulant to fetid ulcers, attended with a thin ichorous dis- charge, and in some examples of caries. In such cases, Jij. of the diluted acid is to be mixed with }j of water. (See A. T. Thomson's Dis- pensatory, p. 441, Ed. 2.) With respect to caries, in the sense of necrosis, however, the reader will understand from what is stated in the article on that subject, that it can rarely be ad- visable to apply this, or any other acid either to the exfoliating portion of bone, or to that which >* yet alive. The nitrous acid has sometimes b-‘en used for destroying warts, condylomata, and other excrescences. I3y Sir E. Home, it is praised as a local application for certain ulcers, when properly diluted. (See Ulcers.) Itislike- vuse commended by some writers as a vary use- ful local application in cases of hospital gangrene. And, an interesting paper has been just pub- lished by Mr. R. Welbank, detailing the excel- lent effects of the undiluted nitric acid, as an ap- plication to diseases, which he has described under the name of sloughing phagedoena, and which he considers as identical with hospital gangrene. “ If the disease be not far advanced (says this gentleman) I at once apply the undi- luted acid, after cleansing the surface with tepid water, and absorbing the moisture with lint. Where, however, there is a thick and pulpy slough, it is better to remove as much of it as possible, with forceps and scissars, before the ap- plication is made. The surrounding parts being then protected by a thick coating of lard, or ce- rate, I proceed to press steadily'-, and, for some minutes, a thick pledget of lint, previously im- mersed in the undiluted acid on every point of the diseased surface, till it appears converted into a firm and dry mass. The parts may be then covered with simple dressings, and evaporation kept up externally by cooling lotions.” An opiate is afterwards given, and the eschar removed at the end of 16, or 20 hours. When there is no pain, and the subjacent parts present a florid healthy appearance, the sore may now be treated as a common wound, though stimulant dressings are generally best. Mr. Welbank uses the cera- tum lapidis calaminaris, or a solution of the ar- gentum nitratum, in the proportion of two, or three gr. to an ounce of distilled water. But, if there is any recurrence of pain, whether the af- fection be slight, or severe, and the remaining slough deep or superficial, Mr. Welbank advises the reapplication of the undiluted acid. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11, p. 369.) The cases, reported by this gentleman, are highly favourable to the practice, which, as may be seen by reference to the article Hospital Gangrene, is not entirely new, with respect to this disease, and in speaking of Mortification, I have men- tioned that it was Dr. Kirkland’s practice some- times even to dress certain sloughing diseases with a solution of mercury in nitrous acid. But, notwithstanding these facts, and the well known custom of Sir Astley Cooper to apply to sloughing phagedenic ulcers the nitric acid lo- tion, composed of 50 drops of the acid, and a quart of distilled water, I feel that Mr. Welbank has rendered a service to the profession by draw- ing their attention still more particularly to the use of undiluted nitric acid in the forms of pha- gedoena, which he has so well described. NODE. A swelling of a bone; a thickening of the periosteum, or a fascia; or a tumor on a tendon, from a venereal cause See Exostosis, and Venereal Disease. NOLI ME TANGERE. A species of lupus, under which term Dr. Willan intended to comprise, together with the noli me tangere affecting the nose and lips, other slow tubercular affections, especially about the face, commonly ending in ragged ulcerations of the cheeks, fore- head, eyelids and lips, and sometimes occurring in other parts of the body, where they gradually destroy the skin and muscular parts to a con- siderable depth. {Bateman s Synopsis of Cu- taneous Diseases, p. 296, Ed. 3.) Sir E. Home says, that the ulcers, for which he has been led to employ arsenic, arc named.