384 DISLOCATION. forwards, upon the obturator foramen, are the next in frequency to those upon the dorsum of the ilium. The accident is facilitated by the great extent, to which the abduction of the thigh can be carried; by the notch at the inferior and internal part of the acetabulum; by the weak- ness of the orbicular ligament on this side; and by the ligamentum teres not opposing, nor being necessarily ruptured by it; that is to say, it is only broken, when the head of the femur has been carried with great violence, further from the acetabulum than common. The head of the bone is thrown between the obturator ligament, and obturator externus muscle. The symptoms are as follows: the injured limb is longer than its fellow, the head of the femur being situated lower than the acetabulum ; the trochanter major, which is less prominent than natural, is removed to a greater distance from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the thigh is flattened, in consequence of the elongation of the muscles. A hard, round tu- mor, formed by the head of the femur, is felt at the inner and superior part of the thigh, towards the perineum. The leg is slightly bent; and the knee and foot, I believe, are generally turned out- wards. However, according to Mr. A. Cooper’s experience, the foot, though widely separated from the other, is generally turned neither out- wards, nor inwards; but, he has seen a little varia- tion in this respect, in different instances. Hence, he prefers as the diagnostic symptoms, the bent position of the body, the separated knees, and the increased length of the limb. ( Essays, Part ], p. 37.) The latter symptom alone is a suf- ficient indication of the accident not being a fracture. Dislocations on the obturator foramen, are very easy of reduction. The pelvis having been fixed, the extension is to be' made downwards and outwards, so as just to dislodge the head of the bone. The muscles then generally draw it into the acetabulum, on the extending force being gradually relaxed, if the upper part of the bone be pulled outward, with a bandage, and the ankle be at the same instant inclined inwards. Thus, the limb is used as a lever, with very considerable power. Mr. Hey says, that “ In this species of dis- location, (downwards and forwards,) as the head of the bone is situated lower, than the acetabulum, it is evident, that an extension made in a right line with the trunk of the body, must remove the head of the bone farther from its proper place, and thereby prevent, instead of assisting, reduc- tion. The extension ought to be made with the thigh at a right angle, or inclined somewhat less than a right angle, to the trunk of the body. When the extension has removed the head of the bone from the external obturator muscle, which covers the great foramen of the os inno- minatum, the upper part of the os femoris must then be pushed or drawn outwards; which mo- tion will be greatly assisted by moving the lower part of the os femoris. at the same moment, in a contrary direction; and, by a rotatory motion of the bone upon its own axis, turning the head of the bone towards the acetabulum.” (Hey, 316.) The ensuing case illustrates Mr. Key’s practice. “ The lower bed-post, on the right side of the bed on which the patient lay, was placed in con- tact with a small immoveable iron pillar (about • I an incli square in thickness.) such as in our wards are used for supporting the curtain rods of the beds. A folded blanket being wrapped round the bed-post and pillar, the patient was placed astride of them, with his left thigh close to the post, and his right thigh on the outside of the bed. A large piece of flannel was put be- tween the blanket and the scrotum, that the lat- ter might not be hurt during the extension. “The patient sat upright, with his abdomen in contact with the folded blanket which covered the bed-post. He supported himself by putting his arms round the post, and an assistant sat be- hind him to prevent him from receding back- wards. He was also supported on each side. “ Two long towels wrere put round the lower part of the thigh, after the part had been well de- fended from excoriation by the application of a flannel roller. The knot, which the towels form, was made upon the anterior part of the thigh, that the motion intended to be given to the leg might not be impeded by the towels. “ The thigh being placed in a horizontal posi- tion, or rather a little elevated, with the leg hanging down at right angles to the thigh, I sat down upon a chair, directly fronting the patient, and directed a gentle extension to be made by the assistants standing at my left side This was done with the view of drawing the head of the bone a little nearer to the middle of the thigh, and the extension had this effect. I then placed the two assistants, who held the towels, at my right side, by which means the extension would be made in a direction a little inclined to the sound limb. Mr. Logan stood on the right side of the patient, with his hands'placed on the upper and inner side of the thigh, for the pur- pose of drawing the bead of the bone towards the acetabulum, when the extension should have re- moved it sufficiently from the place in which it now lay. “ 1 desired the assistants to make the exten- sion slowly and gradually ; and to give a signal when it arrived at its greatest degree. At that moment, Mr, Logan drew the upper part of the bone outwards, while 1 pushed the knee inwards, and also gave the os femoris a considerable rota- tory motion, by pushing the right leg towards the left. By these combined motions, the head of the os femoris was directed upwards and out- wards, or, in other words, directly towards the acetabulum, into which it entered at our first at- tempt made in this manner. “ The scrotum, as the patient assured me, was not hurt in the least by the extension.” (Hey, [ p. 318.) The thigh-bone is sometimes luxated up- wards and forwards on the pubes. The whole > limb is turned outwards, and shortened by one inch ; the trochanter major is nearer the anterior s superior spinous process of the ilium than na- : tural; the head of the bone forms a tumor in : the groin above the level of Poupart’s ligament, on the outer side of the femoral artery and vein ; and, pressing on the anterior crural nerves, causes great pain, numbness, and even paralysis; j and the knee is generally carried backwards. In the account of the position of the limb, | however, authors vary; and, in opposition w ;