1092 URETHRA. generally allows to elapse between the applications of the caustic. The rule, however, may nowand then be deviated from; but, the potassa l'usa oug'ht never to be re-applied, till the action of the last application has completely ceased. In a few instances, the interval may only be five days; in some others, it may be eight, nine, or even a longer space. In the above method of using the potassa fusa, Mr. Whately represents, that this substance is equally diffused over every part of the strictured surface, and only abrades the membrane of the stricture, without producing a slough. The degree of this abrasion, he says, may be increased, or lessened, as circumstances dictate, by paying attention to the quantity of the caustic. The foregoing account will suffice for con- veying an adequate idea of Mr. Whately’s me- thod. I am sorry I cannot add my favourable opinion of the practice. To abrade, without de- stroying, is rather too nice a distinction for a practical man, doing business as it were in the dark. Nor can I conceive, that a liquid caustic (for so it is represented as becoming) can be applied with the accuracy to strictures, which Mr Whately seems to suppose happens. This however is merely my own sentiment; and I do not wish to conceal, that there are yet a few sur- geons who believe, that Mr. Whately’s plan is the most eligible for all cases, in which the stric- ture is irritable, or far advanced. (See How- ship's Pract. Obs. on the Urinary Organs, p. 207.) On the other hand,. I know some very eminent surgeons, who formerly took up this practice with great zeal, yet now have entirely abandoned it, I consider it myself the worst and most random mode of applying caustic to stric- tures, and more likely to act on the sound, than the diseased portion of the urethra. Upon the whole I may safely declare, that caustic bougies are now much less frequently used by the best surgeons in London, than they were about fifteen years ago. Several distin- guished practitioners, who to my knowledge were then accustomed to recommend and employ them, have at present returned either to the use of common bougies, or those made of metal, or clastic gum, to which, after many comparative trials, I acknowledge, a general, but not uni- versal, preference seems to me to be due. We learn from M. Roux, that caustic bougies never had many advocates in France; and the in- quiries, which he made when he was in London, authorized him to announce to his countrymen after his return, that such instruments are at present not more in general favor here, than they are at Paris. (See Voyage fait d Londres cn 1814, on Par allele dr. la Chirurgic Angloisc, 15.) Cases of stricture, however, where the disease is far advanced, of long standing, and attended with such obstruction, that no kind of common bougie can be introduced, appear to me to be the examples, in which the employment of bougies, armed with the nitrate of silver, ought princi- pally to be continued. This mode seems to me less’ violent, than that of employing a common bougie, or iron sound, with sufficient force to . make its way through the stricture by laceration. T». i. 1... L,<1 lncc riclr nf run. At the same time, if the stricture occupy some length of the passage, and a common bougie, which is the best instrument in this circumstance, cannot be introduced through the obstruction so o as to dilate it, I believe a passage through it must often be attempted on the principle of exciting ulceration, and that for this purpose, a sound, or metallic catheter should be employed. In the first instance, however, I would try the armed bougie. I have already explained, that the armed bougie has likewise been particularly recommended for what has been termed the irritable stricture, and it is even declared in Sir Everard’s third volume, that lunar caustic has a greater power of removing spasm, than any other kind of caustic. A Treatise on the Venereal Disease, by John Hunter, 2d Edit. Practical Obs. on the Treatment of Strictures in the Urethra and Oesophagus, by Sir Everard Home, in 8 Volt. 8vo, Load. An improved Method of treating Strictures in the Urethra, by Thomas Whately, Edit. 2, 1806. M. W. Andrews's Obs. on the Application of Lunar Caustic to Strictures in the Urethra and (Esophagus, 8t o. Lond. 1807. T. Luxmore's Practical Observations on Stric- tures, cfjT. 8t’0. Loud. 1809. Howship's Prac- tical Obs. on the Diseases of the Urinary Organs, 8vo. Loud.. 1816. Soemmering Ab- liandlung iiber die schnell and langsam \ tbdtlichen Krankheitcn dcr Harnblasc and Harnrohre bey Manncrn im hohen Alter. Mo. Frank,f. 1809. Letters concerning the Diseases of the Urethra, by C.Bcll, 1810,- subsequently 1 republished with additions by Air. Share. I James Wilson, Lectures on the Structure and Physiology of the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, and their Diseases, 8vo. Lond. 1821. James Arnott, a Treatise on Stricture of the Urethra, Svo. Lond. 1819. Having given an account of this gentleman's dilator, and his ft method of treatment, in the 2d Vol. of the last 'll edition of the First Lines of the Practice of ■■ Surgery, 1 have not considered it necessary to _ repeat the statement in the present work. J. Cross, Sketches of the Medical Schools of j Paris, p. Ill, &rc. Svo. Lond. 1815. URETHRA, FALSE PASSAGE IN. j One of the worst consequences, of using cathc- J ters and bougies, in an improper manner, is the jj rupture of the urethra, or the formation of a I false passage by ulceration. With bougies, this I accident is generally occasioned by trials to ex- cite ulceration by the application of the end of j the bougie to the stricture, when this instrument :i cannot be passed through it. When once the ! E new passage has been formed, whenever the • bougie is introduced, it cannot be hindered from ; going into the false track, and its action on the ill!- stricture is altogether frustrated. In this kind of case Mr. Hunter has advised j| the following operation to be practised. Pass -| a staff, or any such instrument into the urethra, J as far as it will go, which will probably be to the ,r bottom of the new passage, and this, we may be jt certain, is beyond the stricture. Feel for the j end of the instrument externally, and cut upon | it, making the wound about an inch long, if the ; disease be before the scrotum; and an inch and f n linlf. nr more, if in the perineum. If the new