ISC 721 IRI ••ould be inevitable, were the protruded vesicle ■i question formed by the delicate elastic pellicle, ,-hieh is said to invest the inner surface of the ornea. Besides, the little transparent tumor lisappears when the incision is made; but often notlier one, exactly similar to what was cut off, ; found in the very same place the following av. Had the little transparent tumor been otnposed of the tunic of the aqueous humour, tongated out of the wound, or ulcer of the ornea, it could not at all events have been re- roduced at the same part of the cornea. Actuated by such reflections, it is clear to carpa, that the pretended prolapsus of the tunic •fthe aqueous humour is not what it is imagined ) be; but, strictly speaking, only a forcible pro- usion of a portion of the vitreous humour, hieh, from too much pressure being made on te eve, either at the time of the operation, or ; terwards, or from a spasm of the muscles of the >-e, insinuates itself between the edges of the ound after the extraction of the cataract, and rojects ill the form of a transparent vesicle. The ime tiling also happens after ulcers of the cor- •ea, whenever the aqueous humour has escaped, nd a portion of the vitreous humour is urged by ircible pressure towards the ulcer facing the upil; or whenever an elongated piece of the itreous humour, after the recision of a prolapsed ortion of the iris, passes by a shorter route, nan through the pupil, between the lips of the Jeer of the cornea. At length, we understand, hy in both these instances a transparent vesicle rirms, even after the recision of the tunic of le aqueous humour, or ulceration of the cor- ea; and why it very often reappears in the ime place, though it has been cut away to a ■vel with the cornea. It is because one or more dells of the vitreous humour, constituting the ansparent vesicle, are succeeded after their re- loval by other cells of the same humour, which i lide between the lips of the wound, or ulcer of le cornea, into the same situation. The treatment of this species of prolapsus : onsists in removing the transparent vesicle, rojecting from the wound, or ulcer, hy means f a pair of curved scissars with convex edges, nd bringing the edges of the wound of the cor- es immediately afterwards into perfect apposi- on, in order that they may unite together as xactly as possible. But, when there is an ulcer f the cornea, as soon as the vesicle is removed, le sore must he touched with the argentum itratum, so that the eschar may resist any new rolapsus of the vitreous humour, and at the ime time dispose the ulcer of the cornea to ■ ranulate and heal. If, in some particular cases, the vesicle should ot project sufficiently from the wound, or ulcer 1 the cornea, to be included in the scissars, the ime object may he accomplished hy puncturing !<• tumor with a lancet, or couching-needle; ir, when the limpid fluid which it contains is ischarged, the membrane forming it shrinks I’itbin the edges of the wound, or ulcer of the ornea, and no longer hinders the union of the rrmer or the cicatrization of the latter. Should the transparent tumor reappear in the ame situation, the day after its recision, or punc- urei it is right to repeat one of these operations, nd to adopt further measures for maintaining the edges of the wound of the cornea in contact; or, if it should he an ulcer, the eschar must he made to adhere more deeply to its bottom and sides, so as to form a greater obstacle to the escape of the vitreous humour. In these cir- cumstances, the surgeon must take all possible care to obviate such causes as have a tendency to propel the vitreous humour towards the wound, or ulcer, of the cornea; particularly too much pressure on the eyelids, spasms of the muscles of the eye, coughing, sneezing, efforts at stool, and other similar ones; and care must also he taken to check the progress of inflammation. The chorbid coat is, likewise, not exempt from prolapsus. Scarpa has seen this complaint in M. Bressanini, an apothecary at Bescape. A small abscess, formed between the sclerotica and choroid coats, at the distance of two lines from the union of the cornea, with the sclerotica, in the inferior hemisphere of the globe of the eye, in consequence of*a severe internal and external oplithalmy, which had been treated, in its in- cipient state, with repellent remedies. The ab- scess hurst, and discharged a small quantity of thick viscid lymph ; then a small blackish body, composed of the choroid coat, presented itself on the outside of the little ulcer of the sclerotica. The treatment consisted in applying the argen- tum nitratum several times to the projecting portion of the clioroides, until it was consumed, and reduced to a level with the bottom of the ulcer of the cornea. The part then healed. The eye remained, however, considerably weakened, and the pupil afterwards became nearly closed. Scarpa suite Principali Malattie degli Ocelli. Venezia, 1802. Richter’s Anfangsgrundc dcr Wundarzncykunst, B. /3, Von dem Vorfalle dcr Rcgcnhogcnhaut. Pettier, Ohs. sur I’CEil, p. 3.50. G. J. Beer, Lehre von den Augcn- kranlcheitcn, B. 1, § 402, 518, and 592, and B. 2, § 58, 62, |c. 8vo. Wien. 1813—1817. J. War drop. Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vol. 2, p. 51, 8 vo. Lond. 1813. •/• Vetch, A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 53, S(C. Lond. 8z>o. 1820. B. Travers, A Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 1 lb', 280, S[C. 8vo. Lond. 1820. Weller on Diseases of the Eye, Transl. by Dr. Monteath, 8vo. Glasgow, 1821. For a description of the manner of dividing the iris, in order to make an artificial pupil, when the natural one is closed, refer to Pupil, Clo- sure of. Iris, Effects of certain narcotics upon, see Belladonna and Cataract. The following work upon the subject also merits attention. C. Ilimly de la Paralysie dc VJris par nnc ap- plication locale dc la Jusquiaumc, ct de son ntilite dans le traitement dcplusieurs maladies dcs Yeux, ‘idc Ed. \‘2mo. Altona, 1805. IRITIS. Inflammation of the iris. See Ophthalmy. ISCIIU'RIA. (from tc^w, to restrain; and «3ov, the urine!) A suppression, or stoppage of the urine. The distinction between a suppression ami re- tention of urine, is practical and judicious. I lie former most properly points out a defect in the secretion of the kidneys; the latter, an inability of expelling the urine when secreted. (Hey.) The first disease is not very common, is named 3 A