441 FEVERS. nife, freely divides the conjunctiva and oblique luscles, so as to separate the eyeball and lachry- nal gland from the base of the orbit. Drawing he eve then gently forwards with the ligature, le introduces a double-edged knife, “curved readthwise’’ at the temporal commissure of the ds, for the purpose of dividing the muscles, ver- t els and nerves, by which the globe remains at- iched. The hemorrhage he represses with a ' nail bit of fine sponge put into the orbit, and a jht compress, applied over the eyelids, and sup- I orted with a bandage. The sponge, he says, iould not be suffered to remain longer, than j e following day, when a soft poultice in a mus- t bag may be substituted for the compress. I le approves of giving an opiate at bed-time, ■ id joins the late Mr. Ware in condemning the [ -actice of cramming the orbit with lint, or larpie, and leaving it to be discharged by sup- I iration. {Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, 308.) . For a few days after the operation, antiphlo- stic treatment is proper. Sometimes, fungous I -anulations continually7 form in the orbit, not- | thstanding they are repeatedly7 destroyed ; and | metimes, the disease in the orbit extends even to | e brain, and produces fatal consequences. When j alignant fungous excrescences grow from the j rnea alone, it is clearly unnecessary to extir- J te the whole ey7eball. i For information, relating to the subjects of > s article, consult particularly Mimoire sur plit- | urs Maladies da Globe de I’CEil; ou l1 on ex - j u'ne particulierement les cas qui exigent Cextir- tion de cet organe, et la Metliude d’y procedtr; ' M. Louis, in Mem. de l’Acnd. de Chirurgie, m. 13, p. 262, Edit, in 12mo. C. F. Kaltsch- • 7<EVERS, SURGICAL. Underthishead may be comprehended two species of fever, . the inflammatory, and the hectic, which are I ticularly7 interesting to surgeons, because fre- 1 ntly attendant on surgical disorders. [ n treating of inflammation, I have mentioned, I t a febrile disturbance of the constitution is at- {. dant on every considerable inflammation. In 1 present article, some account will be offered !• he particulars of this disorder. Hie fever about to be described is known and d inguisbed by several names; some calling it immattrry; some symptomatic; and others syin- set ic. It is sometimes idiopathic ; that is to it occasionally originates at the same time i the local inflammation, and from the same <e3. {Burns.) In other instances, arid, in- 1, we may say, in all ordinary surgical cases, • symptomatic; or, in other words, it is pro- ; id, not directly by the causes, which originally luced the inflammation, but in consequence •e sympathy of the whole constitution with the arbed state of a part. ' he idiopathic inflammatory fever is said to be •ys preceded by chilliness. '1 he symptomatic, tympathetic inflammatory fever, sometimes s place so quickly, in consequence of the | enre of the exciting cause, or of the local in- imation, that no preceding coldness is ob- meid, Programma de oculo ulcere canceroso labo- rante feliciter extirpato, tyc. Jence. 1748. J.G.G. I oil, Oculi Humani Anatomia et Pathologic ejus demquein statu morboso Extirpatio, 8vo. Norimb. 1810. Bertrandi, Traitd des Operations de Chi- rurgie, p. .519, Edit. 1784, Paris. Sabatier, de la Medecine Operaloire, Turn. 3, p. 54, Edit. 1. Richter, Anfangsgr. dev Wundarzn. B. 3, p. 415, Gbtt. 1795. Mdmoire sur l’Extirpation de I'CEil Carcinomateux in GSunres Chi', de Desault par Bichat, T. 2, p. 102. Richerand, Nosogruphie Chin. T. 2, p. i 03, £fc. Edit. 2. Ware, in Truns. of the Medical Society if London, Vol. 1, part ], p. 140, $-c. Lassus, Pathologie Chir. T. 1, p. 450, Edit. 1809. Wardrop on Fungus Hcemo- todes, p. 93, $-c. Scarpa on the Principal Diseases of the Eye, chop. 21, Ed. 2, transl. by Briggs, 8 vo. Loud. 1818. B, Travers, A Synopsis of the Dis- eases of the Eye, Sec. 4, 8 vo. Land. 1820. F.YE, DISEASES OF. See Amaurosis; Cataract; Cornea; Encanthis; Exophthalmia; Fungus Hecmatodcs; Gutta Serena; Hemeral- opia; his; Hydropthalmia; Hypopium; Leu- coma; Nyctalopia; Ophtkalmy; Pterygium.; Pu- pil., Closure of; Siaphyloma, <fc. 5dc. EYELIDS, DISEASES OF. See Ectro- pium; Lagophthalmus; Hordeolum ; Ptosis; Tri- chiasis ; and Tumors Encysted. In the examina- tion of the interior of the upper eyelid, a modern very convenient plan is now pursued, which is to evert the part over a probe, which is to be placed just across the upper edge of the cartilage of the tarsus, which is then to be suddenly in- clined outwards, when the whole inner surface of the lid will be exposed, the part continuing in this everted state until replaced by the surgeon. servablc. If, however, the local inflammation be more slowly induced, and, consequently, operate more gradually on the system, then the coldness is evidently perceived. The symptomatic fever, induced by scalding, or burning a part, is quickly produced, and we have very little time to attend to the earliest period of i ts formation. On the other hand, the symptomatic fever, induced by wounds, is excited more slowly, and the period of itsforma- tion is longer. This fever is not produced, when the inflammation only affects parts in a slight de- giee; but, it makes its appearance, if the local inflammation be considerable, or if it affect very sensible parts. {Burns.) The degree, in which this fever is excited, does not altogether depend upon the absolute quantity, or violence of the inflammation ; but, in a great measure, upon the degree of the local inflammatory action, compared with the natural power and action -of the part affected. Farts, in which the action is naturally low, are extremely painful when inflamed, and the system sym- pathizes greatly with them. Hence, the con- stitution is very much affected, when tendons, bones, or ligaments, are the parts ■ inflamed. Severe inflammation of a large joint, every one knows, is apt to excite the most alarming, and even fatal derangement <4 the system., v lien very sensible parts arc inflamed, as toi instance.