1055 TRUSS. B Heated, without causing pain, or inconvenience the patient; secondly, not easily to slip out its right situation, in the varying motions and sitions of the body. Trusses are either of an elastic or non-elastic :d. The latter are composed of leather, fus- 1, dimity, or similar materials. These cannot at all depended on, and, should, therefore, be irelv banished from surgery. Since, (as Mr. i iv re nee has remarked! the size of the abdomen ies, according to the different states of the vis- a, and to the motions of its parietes in respira- 1, a non-elastic bandage must vary constantly is degree of tightness, and keep up either too at, or too little pressure. The omentum, or istine, easily slips out when the opening is exactly closed, and the patient, who wears h a bandage, must be in a state of constant :curity. Those, who lead an active life, or obliged to use laborious exertions, will be :e particularly exposed to risk. If the patient, •r experiencing these defects, endeavours to icdy them by drawing the bandage tighter, he *’ confine the viscera, but he produces other mveniences. The increased pressure injures ■ spermatic chord, and may afiect the testicle: integuments become red, painful, and exco- ed; and the bandage must be entirely laid e, until the parts have recovered. Richter has n seen painful tumefaction of the testicle, rocele, and even cirsocele, produced from this re, and entirely dissipated by the employ- . t of a proper truss. (Traits, des Hcrnies, 4.) He also saw the pad of a non-elastic ; iage excite, in the region of the abdominal , a considerable inflammation, which termi- d after a few days in suppuration. The her- never appeared again after the cure of the ssess. The inflammation had extended to the : of the sac, and obliterated that part.— zerence on Ruptures, Edit. 3, p. G9—70.) spring is a very essential part of every elas- russ, and it consists of a flat long piece of !, which is adapted to the side of the body, which the hernia is situated. It is not a t many years since the spring used to be e of common iron, and Arnaud and Richter ess their preference to a mixture of malle- iron and steel, so that the instrument may mulded by the hand to any particular shape; as Mr. Lawrence well observes, a truss, h admits of such management, must be ■ or less liable to the objections, which apply iclastic bandages, and the only material, h possesses the requisite qualities of firmness elasticity, is well tempered steel. The front of the steel spring has an expanded form, when the truss is properly applied, ought situated over the mouth of the hernial sac. spring of a truss has commonly been a se- ek*, with the posterior end resting on the i. Camper proposed to carry it round to interior superior spine of the ilium on the 1 side | a plan, of which Scarpa highly ap- -s* 1 russes of this form fit with a degree eadiness, which cannot be given to'others, ghtening the strap. They keep up the rup- better than even a stronger spring of the non kind. Under the back surface of the tor end of the spring is placed the pad, which should be adapted in shape and size to the passage, which is intended tu be shut up. The steel spring is usually covered with leather, is lined with soft materials, and after being put on the patient, is fastened in its situation by means of a strap, which extends from the two ends of the spring, round that side of the body, on which the hernia is not situated. Hare-skin, with the fur outwards, is sometimes considered the best covering for preserving the spring from the ill- effects of perspiration. When it is necessary to make strong com- pression, as in large old ruptures, and in per- sons who cannot avoid labour and exercise, the elastic spring should be made accordingly thicker and broader. But, an object of the first-rate im- portance is to make the spring press equally upon every point of the body, which it touches. This is what demands the earnest attention both of the surgeon and the instrument-maker, espe- cially as the hips of some individuals are flat and narrow, while those of other persons are broad and prominent. A thick, flexible, metal- lic wire, accurately applied round the pelvis, will serve to take the measure and proper shape of the spring, which may afterwards be altered a little, if found necessary. The wire, however, should be somewhat longer, on account of the length of the spring. The springs of trusses, intended for children, and persons, who do not undergo much labour' and exertion, need not be made so strong, as those designed for hard working, active people. The idea, that children cannot wear steel trusses, is as erroneous, as it is dangerous in its practical consequences; a point, on which Mr. Pott has strongly insisted. Trusses are sometimes fabricated with a pad moveable on the spring, instead of being riveted to it. This may be inclined upwards, or down- wards, according to the form of the abdomen ; and it is retained at the desired point by a spring fitting into the teeth of a rack. In others, the plate contains a screw, by which the cushion is pushed further inward, or allowed to recede at pleasure. Although there cannot be a doubt, that some of these inventions possess considerable merit, and are in certain instances superiorly useful, it must be confessed, that, in general, their utility is not so much greater, than that of common pads, as to make amends for the want of simplicity and the increase of expense. I should be sorry, however, to say any thing that would unfairly discourage all such ingenious endea- vours to improve an instrument so difficult to bring to perfection as a truss; especially as I believe there are particular cases, in which pads, with racks, screws, springs, &c. may be em- ployed with great advantage. Notwithstanding every care, sometimes even elastic trusses cannot be hindered from slipping away from the part, which they are designed to compress. Sometimes they slip downwards, which in fat subjects is generally caused by the projection of the abdomen. Occasionally, the fault consists in the instrument becoming dis- placed in the direction upwards, which mostly happens in thin persons, and is produced by the flatness of the abdomen. In the first ease, the displacement is to be prevented by the use of an