1144 VENEREAL DISEASE. which ends in desquamation, pains in the joints resembling those of rheumatism, soreness of the fauces, and frequently swelling of the lymphatic glands of the neck ; but without any nodes of the bones. Sdly. lhat the ulcer, with elevated edges, in the few instances in which it was traced by Mr. Carmichael to its constitutional sym- ptoms, was followed by a pustular eruption, which terminated in mild ulcers, pains in the joints, and ulcers in the throat, but no appear- ance of nodes. 4thly. That the phagedenic and sloughing ulcers are generally attended with con- stitutional symptoms of peculiar obstinacy and malignancy : viz. pustular spots and tubercles, which form ulcers, generally spreading with a phagedenic edge, and healing from the centre. Extensive ulceration of the fauces, particularly of the back of the pharynx, obstinate pains of the knees, and other joints, while nodes are fre- quently present, and the bones of the nose are occasionally affected. (See CarmicliacVs Es- says and his Obs. on the Symptoms, S[C. of Fen. Diseases,p. 9.) The observations of other modern writers seem generally to coincide with those of Mr. Carmichael, respecting the great variety of character in primary venereal sores, and partly also with regard to the hypothesis of there being various kinds of poisons, or infectious matter. But, on some other great questions, immediately connected with these points, little similarity of opinion prevails between him and other gentle- men, who have laudably and impartially entered into the disquisition. And, in the first place, without adverting again to certain statements, already premised, which render it probable, that differences of the virus, or, at all events, differ- ences in the forms of the primary complaints in the contaminating individuals, would not always explain the reason of the diversified appearances and nature of the primary forms of disease in the contaminated, I shall lay before the reader other evidence, having an immediate relation to Mr. Carmichael’s sentiment, that each kind of pri- mary venereal sore is followed by a peculiar and corresponding train of constitutional symptoms. In the cases, recited by Mr. Rose, “ most of the papular eruptions followed ulcers, which were not very deep, and which healed without much difficulty. Several of them had a thickened, but not a particularly indurated margin. This corresponds with the observations of Mr. Car- michael,—I could not, however, discover any decidedly uniform character in such sores; and the 16th case I should have considered as a well marked instance of chancre.” {Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 899.) Iri another place, it is stated, that the appearances of sores can seldom be relied on in parts of such vascular structure, and in the midst of sebaceous glands. (/,. 419.) With respect to the phagedenic ulcer, Mr. Rose expresses his belief, that it is rarely followed by secondary symptoms, though he inclines to the opinion, that it arises from the application of some morbific matter, acknowledging, however, the great difficult}' of deciding, “ whether the great degree of erethismus, excited by the local affection, should be attributed to any peculiarity in that matter, or is owing to the peculiar state reported by Mr. Fergusson, where “ the infec- tion was communicated by an opera dancer at Lisbon, apparently in perfect health, who con- tinued on the stage for several months after- wards, occasionally infecting others, without any thing extraordinary, as far as he could learn, in the nature of the symptoms.” {Op. cit. Vol. 4, p. 1V.) And, on the same subject, Mr. Guthrie does not think, “ that Mr. Carmichael's opinion, as to the secondary symptoms, peculiar to the phagedenic and sloughing ulcer, receives any support from what occurred to the troops iu Portugal; because it did not appear, that either of them, following sexual intercourse, were de- pendent on the cause which produced the ulcer. Where many men have had intercourse with the same woman (and with no others?), they have not all had the same complaint, although one of the ulcers, so originating, has become phagedenic or sloughed ; neither has the same woman her- self suffered from this distemper: indeed, the nature of an ulcer of either kind must, after a short time, effectually prevent any intercourse, and we often find, that their peculiar characters only appear after the ulcer has existed for several days. I firmly believe also, that, in the greater number of cases of sloughing ulcer, where mer- cury is not given, no secondary symptoms would appear: and, in those cases, in which they did appear, I apprehend, they would be equally de- pendent on the state of the constitution, as to the mode of cure, and their destructive characters. In other words, my observations lead me to con- clude that 4/iesc ulcers do not depend upon a specific poison, but on the state of the constitu- tion, under particular excitement, and that, when secondary symptoms occur, they are not depend- ent on the state of the ulcer; although I am ready to admit, that, in a constitution where an ulcer will readily become phagedenic, the second- ary symptoms, when they occur, may be differ- ent to a certain extent from those that follow more simple ulcers, in a healthier habit of body.” {Guthrie in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 564.) My observations lead me to believe, with Mr. Guthrie, that, primary sloughing ulcers do not depend upon any peculiar poison, and I am also disposed to join him in the opinion, that, when hurtful local treatment is out of the question, they are chiefly owing to the state of the consti- tution. According to my experience, all kinds of ulcers on the genitals, may, from particularity of constitution, impairment of health, and some- times from the pernicious effects of the immode- rate and indiscriminate employment of mercury, assume in their progress a sloughing disposition, and even have it from their very commencement. Mr. Rose mentions a case, in which a healthy young man was affected with a sloughing sore on the penis, in consequence of a suspicious con- nexion. It was not attended with any constitu- tional disturbance, and yielded readily to mer- cury. The same patient, twice afterwards, at a very considerable interval, had a fresh infection, and the sores each lime had precisely the same character as the first. This, says Mr. Rose, is no uncommon occurrence, and it is not probable, that the sloughing and appearance of the sores arose from the peculiarity of the poison. {Med.