HARE-LIP. tel for making the edges of the fissure raw and ca- pable of union, all practitioners entertain the same sentiment, with regard to the object of this operation, which consists in reducing the pre- ternatural solution of continuity to the state of a simple wound, by cutting off the edges of the separated parts throughout their length, and then keeping these parts in contact until they have completely grown together. But, although such principles have been generally admitted, there was formerly some difference of opinion, with re- spect to the best method to be followed in prac- tice ; some operators having preferred sutures for keeping the edges of the wound in contact; while others disapproved of them, believing, that i perfect cure might always be accomplished by means of adhesive plaster and an uniting bandage, so as to save the patient from all the pain and annoyance of sutures. M. Louis thought, that the use of sutures, in the operation for the hare-lip, proceeded from a false idea respecting the nature of the disease; for, the fissure in the lip being wrongly imputed to loss of substance, it was deemed impossible to keep the parts in contact, except by a suture. “ The separation of the edges of the fissure in the lip,”says M. Louis, is only the effect of the retraction of the muscles, and is always propor- tioned to the extent of the cleft. Persons with hare-lips, are capable of bringing the edges of the fissure together by muscular action, by puckering up their mouths. On the other hand, the separation is considerably increased when they laugh, ami the breach appears excessively large, after superficially paring off its edges on both sides. The interspace in the hare-lip must not, therefore, be mistaken for a loss of sub- stance. This truth is confirmed by the effects of sticking plaster, which has sometimes been ap- plied to the hare lip, as a preparatory measure before the operation, and which materially lessens the separation of the parts. “ According to the confession of all who have written in favour of the twisted future, it seems advisable only on the false idea, that the hare-lip is the effect of a greater or lesser loss of sub- stance : and they say, positively, that we must not have recourse to it when there is only a simple division to be united. The twisted suture must then be proscribed from the operation for the natural hare-lip, since it is proved, that this malformation is unattended with loss of sub- stance. At the same time, a loss of substance is but too real, after the extirpation of scirrhous and cancerous tumors, to which the lips are very sub- ject. Yet, even in these cases, the extensibility of the lips allows an attempt to be made to re- unite the double incision, by which the tumor has been removed, and it succeeds without the smallest deformity, when care is taken to direct each in- cision obliquely, so that both of them form, where they meet, aiiacute angle, in the base of which the tumor is comprised. Here the means of union ought to be the more efficacious, because the difficulty of keeping the edges of the wound approximated is greater. M. Pibrac in his me- moir on the abuse of sutures, when speaking of t >e hare-lip, has already explained, that they are badly conceived means, and more hurtful in pro- portion as there is a greater loss of substance, because the greater the interspace is between the two parts, the more fear is there of their efforts on the needles or pins left in the wound. Hence, care has always been taken to make the dressings aid the operation of the suture. After this con- sideration, judiciously made by the partisans of this plan, there was only one more step to be taken, according to M. Pibrac, in order to evince the necessity of proscribing it. The cap, or copper head-piece, described by Verduc and Nuclc, for compressing the cheeks; the clasps of Heister; and strips of adhesive plaster; are all only inventions for the support of the parts, and keeping them from being disunited. When the suture failed, it was by these means, that the original deformity was corrected, together with that produced by the laceration, which would not have occurred without the suture. As, then, the dressings, when methodically applied, are capable of effectually rectifying the mischief of the suture, M. Lcfuis inquires, why should they be considered only as a resource in a mere ac- cidental case? Why should they not be made the chief and primary means of reuniting the lip, even when there is a loss of substance? “ Nothing can be opposed to the proofs ad- duced upon this point. Tiiey are even drawn from the practice of those, who have employed sutures without success. Such persons have themselves furnished the proofs of the bandage being capable of repairing the mischief resulting from the twisted suture.” M. Louis, with a view of perfecting our no- tions on this matter, lays it down as a fact, that, the retraction of the muscles being the cause of the separation of the edges of the fissure, it is not to these edges we are to apply the force which is to unite them; but that it should be applied further to the very parts, whose action (the cause of the separation) is to be impeded, and whose contraction is thus to be prevented. A great many means for supporting the wound, only irritate the muscles and excite them to ac-' tion, and it is this action which we should en- deavour to overcome. The means for promoting union can only be methodical, when directly em- ployed to prevent such action, by an immediate application on the point where it is to be resisted. The facility, with which the parts may be brought forward, so as to bring the two commissures of the lips into contact, by the mere pressure ol the hands, shews what may be expected from a very simple apparatus, which will execute the same office without any effort, in a firm and permanent manner, and which will render sutures unneces- sary, the inconveniences of which are too well known. M. Louis, after having explained the reasons of the theory, ort which he founded his method, relates several cases, taken either from his own practice, or that of others, to illustrate its advan- tages. He details the history ol twenty cases, in which his plan perfectly succeeded, both in accidental hare-lips, with considerable loss of substance, and in natural ones. In most of these instances, however, it was thought proper to as- sist the bandage with one stitch at the extremity of the fissure, close to the vermilion border of the lip, for the purpose ot keeping the parts se- curely on a level.