303 CATARACT. OF COUCHING, OK DEPRESSION OF THE CATAKAOT, AND KECUNATION. ^ The operation of couching was once supposed to consist altogether in removing the opaque lens out of the axis of vision, by means of a needle, constructed for the purpose; but, it is well known to be frequently effectual on another prin- ciple, even when the nature and consistence of the cataract do not admit of the depression of the opaque body. In short, experience fully proves, that the diseased lens, when broken and disturbed with the needle, and especially when freely ex- posed to the contact of the aqueous humor by a proper laceration of its capsule, is gradually dis- solved and removed by the action of the absorbents. However, when a surgeon speaks of.depression, he always means the operation of pushing the cataract nearly perpendicularly, and to a sufficient depth below the pupil into the vitreous humor, ; so as to prevent the opaque substance from ■ being an impediment to vision. Writers of the highest reputation and greatest expeijence differ so widely about the merits of this operation, that, T think it fair to conclude, that, on each side, strong prejudices and exaggerations have been suffered to enter the question. In general, it will be observed, that oculists, and others, who >eek for a name in this branch of surgery, decry .he operation of depression; and, if it were de- signed to make the use of the needle an exclu- sive practice, then I believe the results of mo- dern experience would compel every impartial surgeon to enter a protest against the decision, fn this respect, the doctrines of Pott, Cal- isen, Hey, and Scarpa, are undoubtedly wrong, . hough their sentiments are blended with many valuable and important truths. Beer, who is by 10 means a great advocate for depression, admits ts utility in particular cases. It is easily com- trehensible, says he, that, in this way, a firm and arge cataract, either cannot be removed without njuring the retina, and the attachment of the cor- ius ciliare to the vitreous humor, or not far inough to prevent the opaque body from rising - gain at the first opportunity, Hence, the former tomplaints about the frequent return of the cata- act, and other ill consequences, unappeasable omiting, suddenly produced amaurosis, and se- cre inflammation, &c. But, while Beer acknow- .idges the frequency of these ill effects of depres- ion, he condemns the universal rejection of it, ttempted at the present day, and the unlimited abstitution for it of reclinuiiun, which consists in pplying the needle in a certain manner to the aterior surface of the cataract, and depressing the paque body into the vitreous humor, in such a ay, that the front surface of the cataract is now •e upper one, its back surface the lower one, its pper edge backwards, and its lower edge for- ards ; a change, which Beer says, cannot be >ade without an extensive destruction of the cells * ‘be vitreous humor. Hence, with few excep- ans, this author thinks the common mode of ipression should be preferred. (Le/ire von den n^enkr. B. 2, p. db'i.) And, in this sentiment, ! >s joined by Mr. Travers, who remarks, that * u6*! °bjec‘ion ‘° couching is the breaking up * 'ki "n<i ‘ex‘urc ‘be globe of the eye, by the rcl ® depression of the lens. ,t Whether it be depressed edgeways, or breadthways, makes no difference in the result; it must still occupy a breach in the cells of the vitreous humor, and must derange and disorder that delicate texture, and those connected with it. A slow insidious inflammation marked by a gradual developement of the symptoms of disorganization, viz. conges- tion of vessels, turbid humors, flaccid tunics, and palsied iris, is too often the consequence. The sight, instead of improving, when the immediate effects of the injury are passed away, remains habitually weak and dim, or declines and fades altogether. The advocates for reclinution seem to forget, that the principle, which is the same in both operations, is the real ground of objection. As to the position of the lens, 1 suspect less mis- chief is done by the old method of depression, as less force is required to break a space for the ver- tical, than the horizontal lens, provided the de- pression be carried to no greater extent, than is necessary to clear the inferior border of the pu- pil.” (Synopsis of the Dheases of the Eye, p. 318.) Beer divides both the operations of couching and reclination into three stages: the first is that in which the needle is introduced into the eye; the second that, in which it is passed into the posterior chamber and placed across the anterior surface of the cataract; the third is that, in which the operator accomplishes the act of depression, or reclination. There are two couching needles, which now seem to be generally preferred; namely, that which was used by the late Mr. Hey; and that recommended by Scarpa. The length of Mr. Hey’s needle is somewhat less than an inch. It would be sufficiently long if it did not exceed seven-eighths of an inch. It is round, except near the point, where it is made flat by grinding two opposite sides. The flat part is ground gradually thinner to the extremity of the needle, which is semi-circular, and ought to be made as sharp as a lancet. The flat part extends in length, about an eighth of an inch, and its sides are parallel. From the part where the needle ceases to be flat, its diameter gradually increases towards the handle. The flat part is one-fortieth of an inch in diameter. The part which is nearest the handle, is one-twentieth of an inch. The handle, which is three inches and a half in length, is made of light wood, stained black. It is octagonal, and has a little ivory inlaid in the two sides, which correspond with the edge of the needle. Mr. Hey describes the recommendations of this instrument in the following terms : 1. “ It is only half the length of the common needle; and this gives the operator a greater command over the motions of its point, in re- moving the crystalline from its bed, and tearing its capsule. It is also of some consequence, that the operator should know how far the point of his needle has penetrated the globe of the eye, before he has an opportunity of seeing it through the pupil; as it ought to be brought forwards when it has reached the axis of the pupil. Now he may undoubtedly form a better judgment re- specting this circumstance, when the length of his needle does not much exceed the diameter of the eye, than when 1m uses one of the ordinary