223 BLI tlic excoriated surface in a particular manner. Practitioners used formerly to mix powder of eantliarides with an ointment, and dress the part with this composition. But, such a dressing not unfrequontly occasioned very painful affections ot the bladder, a<scalding sensation in making- water, and most afflicting stranguries. An in- flammation of the bladder, ending fatally, has oeen thus excited. The treatment of such com- plaints consists in removing every particle of eantliarides from the blistered part, which is to be well fomented, and making the patient drink abundantly of mucilaginous drinks. Camphor is now suspected to prove more hurtful, than useful. These objections to the employment of salves, containing eantliarides, for dressing blistered surfaces, led to the use of mezereon, euphor- bium, and other irritating substances, which, when incorporated with ointment, form very pro- per compositions for keeping blisters open, with- out the inconvenience of irritating the bladder, like eantliarides. The favourite application, however, for keep- ing open blisters, is the powder of savine, which was brought into notice by Mr. Crowther, in the first edition of his book on the White Swelling. In the last edition, this gentleman remarks, that he was led to the trial of different escharotic applications, in the form of ointment, in conse- quence of the minute attention, which caustic is- sues demand ; and among other things, he was induced to try powdered savine, from observing its effects in the removal of warts. Some of the powder was first mixed with white cerate, and applied as a dressing to the part, that had been blistered; but, the ointment ran off, leaving the powder dry upon the sore, and no effect was produced. Mr. Crowther next inspissated a decoction of savine, aii|l mixed the extract with the ointment, which succeeded better, for it pro- duced a great and permanent discharge. At last, after various trials, he was led to prefer a pre- paration analogous to the unguentum sambuei P. L. and he now offers the following formula, as answering every desirable purpose : Subivcc recenlis coat nice lbij, Ceres jlaxee lbj, Adi pis suit- hx lbiv. Adi pc et ccra liquefucta, incoque sabh- vam el cola. The difference of this formula from that, which Mr. Crowther published in 1797, only consists in using a double proportion of the savine leaves. The ceratum sabinar of Apothecary’s Hall, he says, is admirably made: the fresh savine is bruised with half the quantity of lard, which is submitted to the force of an iron press, and the whole is added to the remainder of the lard, which is boiled until the herb begins to crisp; the ointment is then strained off, and the pro- portion of wax, ordered, being previously melted, is added. On the use of the savine cerate, im- mediately after the cuticle, raised by the blister, is removed, it should be observed, says Mr. Crowther, that experience has proved the advan- tage of using the application lowered by a half, or two-thirds, of the unguentum certe. An at- tention to this direction will produce less irrita- tion and more discharge, than if the savine cerate were used in its full strength. Mr. Crowther sayS also, that he has found fomenting the part with flannel wrung out of warm water, a more easy, and preferable way of keeping the blistered BON surface clean, and fit for the impression of the ointment, than scraping the part, as has been directed by others. An occasional dressing of the unguentum resinae flavae, he has found, a very useful application for rendering the sore free from an appearance of slough, or rather dense lymph, which has sometimes been so firm iri its texture, as to be separated by the probe, with as much readiness, as the cuticle is detached after blistering. As the discharge diminishes, the strength of the savine dressing should be pro- portionally increased. The ceratum sabinse must be used, in a stronger, or weaker degree, in pro- portion to the excitement produced on the pa- tient’s skin. Some require a greater stimulus, than others, for the promotion of the discharge, and this can only be managed by the sensations, which the irritation of the cerate occasions. Mr. Crowther has used ointments, containing the flowers of the elematis recta, the capsicum, and the leaves of the digitalis purpurea. The two first produced no effect: the last was very stimulating; and Mr. Crowther mentions his intention to take the first convenient oppor- tunity to determine its qualities more accurately. He has also used caustic potassa, mixed with sper- maceti cerate, in the proportion of one dram to an ounce : it proved very stimulating, but pro- duced no discharge. He has tried one dram of the oxymuriate of mercury, blended with two ounces of the above cerate ; but, the application was so intolerably painful, that at the end of two hours, it became necessary to remove the dress- ing; and the patient was attacked with a most severe ptyalism. (Practical Observations on the II kite Swelling, $c., a new edition, bp B. Crou- ihtr, 1808.) Instead of keeping a blivter open, it is fre- quently a judicious plan to renew the Application of the emplastrum lyttie, after healing up the vesication first produced, and to continue, in this manner, a succession of blisters, at short inter- vals, as long as the circumstances of the case may demand. W here the skin is peculiarlv ir- ritable, and, particularly, in young children, where the emplastrum lyttse sometimes acts so vio- lently as to produce sloughing, or, in any cases, where the plaster produces strangury and irrita- tion of the urinary organs, I am informed, that the inconvenience may be avoided, and the cuti-j cle raised very well, if a piece of silk paper be interposed between the plaster and the integu- ments. Mr. A. T. Thompson recommends for the same purpose a piece of thin gauze, wet with vinegar, and applied smoothly and closely over the plaster. (Dispensatory, p. 717, Ed. 2.) Fori infants, a proportion of opium has sometimes! been added to the emplastrum lyttae, in order! to render its action less violent; a proposal made! I believe, by Mr. Chevalier. BOIL. (See Furunculus.') BONES D.senses of; See Antrum ; Caries.« Exostosis; Jaiitts; Mollifies; Necrosis; sarcoma; Rebels; and Venereal Disease. Thejj following works, relative to the pathology ofl the bones, deserve notice:—F. C. Spocndli*. De. Sen.'i'nlitatc Ossium Morbosa, 4<o Gott. j 1814. A. l\Iurray, Dc Scnsibihtate Ossium i Morbosa; (Ludw. Script. Near 4.) O. Mur-1 ray, I Ids, Acad, de Scnsihilittilc Ossium Mar-1 busa. (Frank. Del. Op. 12.) J. G. Stuimius, U