291 CATARACT. sons are firm, lie says, this is frequently contra- dicted bv experience. In cataracts, extracted from thin, aged individuals, the lens is some- times found dwindled, as hard as wood, nearly of a chesnut-brown colour, and with its two surfaces as flat as if they had been compressed. This case has sometimes been denominated the dark-grey cataract, and, is very difficult to make out pre- viously to an operation, being liable to be mis- taken for an incipient amaurosis. Hence, in or- der to judge of it effectually, the pupil should al- ways be dilated with hyosciamus. To the firmish, consistent kind, Beer refers several capsulo-lenticular cataracts, namely, the encusted, and conical, or pyramidal cataracts, that to which he applies the epithet dry husked, the gypsum-cataract, in particular, and the bur-cata- ract, which at least is always partly firm, as well as all the varieties of spurious cataruc.l. (Beir, B. 2. p. 309.) The fluid, or milky cataract, has usually a white appearance; and irregular spots and streaks, different in colour from the rest of the cataract, are often observable on it. These are apt to change their figure and situation, when frequent and sudden motions of the eyes occur, or when the eyes are rubbed and pressed; sometimes, also, these spots and streaks vanish, and then re- appear. The lower portion of the pupil seems more opaque than the upper, probably, because the untransparent and heavy parts of the milky fluid, sink downward to the bottom of the cap- sule. The crystalline lens, as it loses its firm- ness, commonly acquires an augmented size. 1 Hence, the fluid cataract is thick, and the opa- city close behind the pupil. Sometimes, one can perceive no space between the cataract and mar- . gin of the pupil. In advanced cases, this aper- ture is usually very much dilated, and the iris moves slowly and inertly. This happens because :he cataract touches the iris, and impedes its action. The fluid cataract is sometimes of such l thickness, that it protrudes into the pupil, and presses the iris so much forward, as to make it issume a convex appearance. Patients, who have nilky cataracts, generally distinguish light from larkness very indistinctly, and sometimes not at ill; partly, because the cataract, when it is hick, lies so close to the iris, that few or no rays >f light can enter between them into the eye; i jartly, because the fluid cataract always assumes, nore or less, a globular form, and therefore has io thin edge, through which the rays of light can penetrate. (Riclitei’s Anfungsgr. der Wun- ion. 3 B. 171, 175.) Mr. Travers believes, that luid cataracts are rarely contained in a transparent . apsule, and his experience has taught him, that his membrane is partially opaque, presenting a lotted, or mottled surface. The opaque spots are nost distinguishable when viewed laterally. (See 'fed. Chir. Trans. Vat. 4, p. 284.) According to Beer, a fluid cataract is mostly onjoined with a complete opacity of the capsule : ts diagnosis therefore is commonly very difficult, .nd sometimes its nature cannot be known with ertainty, until an operation is undertaken. When he capsule is opaque only in some places, he ■dates, that the following circumstances may be 'oticed. The cataract lies close to the uvea, and vlien the patient inclines his head forwards, the ataract presses the iris towards the cornea, and the anterior chamber becomes evidently smaller; but, when ho lies upon his back, the cataract re- cedes in some degree from the uvea. The power of distinguishing the light is decided. When the head is kept quiet for a long time, a thick sedi- ment, and a thinner part can be plainly remarked in the cataract; during which state, that is, while the two substances are undisturbed, the patient can sometimes distinguish large well lighted ob- jects, as through a dense mist; but, when the head, or eye, is quickly moved, these two sub- stances become confused together again, and the cataract again presents an uniform white co- lour. ( Vol. cit.p. 3 12.) It cannot be denied, says Beer, that what is called the congenital cataract, and which presents itself in infants soon after- birth, when their eyes have been exposed to im- moderate light, is not unfrequently fluid ; but in such cases, it must not be presumed, that the lens is always in this state; for, in fact, the cataract is often of that sort, which Beer describes under the name of dry-dusked. Sometimes the opaque lens is of a middling consistence, neither hard, nor fluid, but about as consistent as thick jelly, curds, or new cheese. Cases of this description are termed soft or case- ous cataracts. The consistence, here spoken of, may be confined to the two surfaces of the lens, or may exist in its very centre. The first case is the most frequent. The diagnosis is pot difficult • for, it always has a light grey, greyish wliite, or seagreen colour. When it is far advanced, it quite impedes the eyesight, and sometimes con- siderably interferes with the perception of light. (Beer, B. 2, p. 310.) As the lens softens in this manner, it commonly grows thicker and larger, even acquiring a much greater size than the fluid. It is not unfrequent to meet with caseous cataracts of twice the ordinary size of a healthy crystalline lens. The motions of the iris are very sluggish. (Richter's Anfungsgr. der Wundarm. p. 178. 3 B.) Indeed, Beer says, that it is some- times requisite to use the hyosciamus, in order to ascertain that no adhesions exist between the uvea and the cataract, for, in such cases, the posterior chamber is very often completely abo- lished, as the more caseous the lens is, the larger it is; and hence likewise, the black ring at the edge of the pupil is not at all owing to the sha- dow of the iris, but entirely to the dark border of the iris at the margin of that opening. Accord- ing to Beer, the colour of such cataracts is never uniform, but more or less speckled; the spots, how- ever, either have no determinate outline, or they seem like mother-of-pearl fragments, into which the cataract crumbles when extracted, or couched, or else they assume the appearance of clouds. (Beer, B. 2, p. 311.) According to Mr. Tra- vers, the caseous cataract has a heavy dense ap- pearance, uniformly opaque, a clouded, not a fleecy, whiteness, and sometimes a greenish, or dirty white tinge. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 285.) He further states, that what he terms the jlocculent or Jli ccy, and the caseous, or doughy cataracts, are most frequently met with ; thejluid, or milky cases, and those called hard, being com- paratively rare. (Op. el loc. cit.) As Beer observes, a cataract, which is recent, and has originated suddenly, especially in young subjects, requires much more circumspection, ere an operation is determined upon, than a cataract,