316 CATARACT. proceed from the incision having been begun below the transverse diameter of the cornea, "in this manner, nine-sixteenths, or rather more than halt of the circumference of this membrane, will not be divided; which extent the incision ought always to occupy, in order to allow the cataract to be extracted with facility. When however the cornea is remarkably flat, and the iris projects unusually forward in the an- terior chamber, Mr. Ware recommends including only one-third of the cornea in the first incision, and afterwards enlarging the aperture, on the outer side, by means of curved scissars. Taking care to fix the eye in Mr. Ware’s way, is represented by this author as being of great consequence in hindering the wound in the cor- nea from being made too small. Whenever the wound in the cornea is made too small, it should always be enlarged before pro- ceeding further in the operation; and, according to Mr. Ware, this can be best accomplished with a pair of curved blunt-pointed scissars, on the outer side of the cornea, where the knife first made its entrance. For doing this. Beer recommends the use of Daviel’s scissars, which are to be introduced with their concavity towards the operator, and their point directed towards the pupil. Beer also in- troduces the point of the inner blade into the mid- dle of the wound of the cornea, under the flap already made, and passes it somewhat higher than the place to which it is necessary to enlarge the incision. Then he first conveys the instrument to the inner or outer angle of the wound, where the dilatation is to be made, keeping the blade, which is within the cornea, not parallel to the iris, but in an oblique position with respect to it, for otherwise the best scissars will fail to make a clear division. The scissars also must not be opened more, than is absolutely necessary, and they should be very quickly shut, and in such a manner, that the outer blade ought only to move towards that within the cornea, lest the eye suffer injury. Beer says, that it is hardly ever neces- sary to enlarge the incision in the cornea at both its angles ; and, in these cases, he confesses, that all idea of shaping the wound altogether as it ought to be, must be renounced. (Lehre von den Aitaejilcr. B. 2, p. ”82.) Wounding the iris with the cornea-knife, is the second accident, which Mr. Ware considers. The principal cause seems to him to be a dis- charge of the aqueous humor, before the knife has passed through the cornea low enough to hinder the lower part of the iris, which forms the inferior rim of the pupil, from getting beneath the edge of the instrument. According to Mr. Ware, the escape of the aqueous humor may be owing to some inaccuracy in the shape of the knife, or unsteadiness in introducing it. The falling of the lower part of the iris under the edge of the knife, Mr. Ware believes, cannot always be pre- vented by the utmost skill, or precaution of the operator. Happily, however, says he, wc have been taught, that the iris may be reinstated, after it has been thus displaced, and without suffering any injury, by making gentle frictions on the cornea, with the point of the finger. By unsteadiness in passing the knife, Mr. Ware means, that the knife may not only be suffered to make a punctuation through this tunic, but, that its edge may, at the same time, be unintentionally pressed downward, so as to make an incision likewise ; in consequence of which downward ’ motion of the knife, an aperture must unavoid- j ably be left in the cornea, through which the aque- j ous humor will escape. If the cornea knife in- i crease through its whole length, both in width and ( thickness, and if it be merely pushed through the j cornea, no space will be left, through which any j fluid can escape. According to Beer, the escape of the aqueous j humor, as the knife passes across the anterior chamber, may happen with, or without any fault ; on the part of the operator, and the iris fall not merely against the posterior surface of the knife, but even project under its edge, and over its back. When this happens, Beer joins Ware In recom- mending the end of the middle finger, situated at the inner canthus, to be gently pressed without i delay upon that part of the cornea, which is in , front of the knife, and, at the moment, when this is done, the iris will recede from the edge of the instrument, and the operator, by being very' quick, may proceed again without any' risk of injuring that part of the eye. But, if the iris should be found to project again above and below the knife immediately the point of the finger is removed from the cornea, such removal should not be made, and the knife be boldly pushed on until its point pierces the other side of the cornea; or, if the point has already passed some way out of the cornea towards the inner canthus, the blade is to be pushed on so far, that no protrusion of the iris is possible. For, says Beer, while the finger continues to make gentle pressure upon the cor- nea, the iris will not fall under the knife. Should the eye chance to withdraw itself from the knife, after this has penetrated the anterior chamber; a circumstance, which may easily happen in rest- less timid patients, the greater part or the whole of the aqueous humor is immediately discharged, and the iris comes in contact with the empty cor- nea. In this case, Beer says, that the operator should find out the wound with another knife, and with a wriggling motion of the instrument, con- duct it between the iris and the cornea, twist- ing and turning the point about until it has suc- cessfully' passed beyond the external, then beyond the inner pupillary margin of the iris, 'anil has finally come out of the cornea again. Now the incision in the cornea may be properly finished, in doing which, it is always necessary to keep the middle finger applied to this membrane, in con- sequence of the disposition of the iris to fall against the knife. Beer mentions it as a curious fact, that most of the patients, who are restless and unmanageable at the first introduction of the ; knife, and who themselves cause that disagreeable occurrence now spoken of, are, on the contrary, very quiet during the foregoing manoeuvres. (helve von den Augenkr. B. ‘2, p. 381.) The third accident, noticed by' Mr. Ware, is the escape of the vitreous humor. The common occa- sion of this occurrence is the undue application of pressure. It may' take place, either when the inci- sion is made through the cornea, or at the time of extracting the cataract. Some ey'es are subject to spasm, which renders them much more liable to this accident. To prevent it, Mr. Ware recom-