TEN or, and anterior, see Lehrs von den Augenkr. 2, p. 54 and p. 263. Also Begcr, De Sy- hia sen pretermit nr all adhesione cornea cum lc. Jlnller, Disp. Chir. T. 1, p. 435. SYNTHESIS. (from aw, together, and position, situation.) A generic term, for- TEN 1015 merly much used in the schools of surgery, and comprehending every operation, by which parts which had been divided, were reunited. SYPHILIS. Lues Venerea. The venereal disease. (See Venereal Disease.) T. ■ \ - - BANDAGE. A bandage, so named _ from its figure. It is principally used for porting the dressings after the operation for cure of fistula in ano, in diseases of the pe- tcum, and those of the groins, anus, Ac. It composed of two longitudinal pieces of cloth, . greater or lesser breadth, according as occa- n requires. The transverse piece of cloth ves to go round the body above the hips : the rpendieular piece is sewed, at one of its ends, the middle of the latter; and, in general, its rer extremity is slit into two portions, or tails, rut six or eight inches long. The perpendi- ar piece of the T bandage applies itself be- een the glutaei muscles, and to the perinaeum : ile its two ends, just described, are to be car- d between the thighs and the pudenda to the lit and left, and fastened to the tranverse piece •rounding the body. Besides the common T idage, there is another one named double, ich has two perpendicular pieces, sewed to the nsverse one, about four inches apart. The uble T bandage is said to be more particularly plicable after lithotomy, and for the diseases of .* perinreum ; because one rnay make the two rpendieular pieces cross each other on the part ected, and leave the anus uncovered; an ad- ntage which the simple T bandage certainly .s not. The T bandage may be used in some her ways, which have been noticed in the tide Bandage. I'ALPA. (a mole.) A tumor, which creeps ider the skin as a mole under the surface of e ground. Such is the etymology. It is ten applied to an encysted tumor, which forms i the head, and contains a paplike matter, lee Atheroma and Tumors, Encysted.) TAPPING. See Paracentesis. TARAXIS. (from Taonacn", to disturb.) slight ophthalmy, or inflammation of the re. PAX IS. (from raaax, to put in order.l lie operation of reducing a hernia with the ind. (See Hernia ) TENDONS, RUPTURE OF. The ten- ms, liable to be broken by the violent action of ‘C muscles with which they are connected, are e tendo A chillis, that of the extensor muscles the leg. and the tendon of the triceps extensor ,"‘‘i The ancient surgeons seem not to have well acquainted with the rupture of the •ndo Acbillis, which they probably might mis- ibe for a sprain, or some other complaint. In »sos, in which this part had been cut, they rc- omtnended approximating the separated por- ibiti een tions, and maintaining them in contact by menus of a suture. When the ruptured tendo Achillis was after- wards better understood, the plan just mentioned was even adopted in this case, the integuments having been previously divided, lor the purpose of bringing the tendon into view. But there is no necessity for having recourse to this painful proceeding. (Encyclopedic Methodiquc, Pur- tic Chir. T. 1, p. 55.) The superficial situation of the tendo Achillis always renders the diagnosis of its rupture ex- ceedingly obvious, and the accident can only be- come at all difficult to detect, when there is a considerable degree of swelling, which is very rare. When the tendon has been cut, the divi- sion of the skin even allows the accident to be seen. When the tendon has been ruptured, the patient hears a sound, like that of the smack of a whip, at the moment of the occurrence. In whatever way the tendon has been divided, there is a sudden incapacity, or, at least, an extreme difficulty either of standing or walking. Hence, the patient falls down, and cannot get up again. Besides these symptoms, there is a very palpable depression between the ends of the tendon, which depression is increased when the foot is bent and diminished, or even quite removed when the loot is extended. The patient can spontaneously bend his foot, none of the flexor muscles being interested. The power of extending the foot also is still pos- sible, as the peronaei muscles, the tibialis posticus, and long flexors of the toes (see a cape recorded by J. L. Petit) remain perfect, and may per- form this motion. ((Euvrcs Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, T. 1.) The indications are to bring the ends of the divided part together, and to keep them so, until they have become firmly united. The first ob- ject is easily fulfilled, by putting the foot in a state of complete extension; the second, namely, that of keeping the ends of the tendon in contact, is more difficult. In order to have a right comprehension of the indications, we should consider what keeps the ends of the tendon from being iu contact. The flexion of the foot lias this effect on the lower portion ; the contraction of the gastrocnemius, and solieus, on the upper one. The indications then are to put the foot in an unalterable state of extension, and to counteract the aetion ot the above muscles. The action of the muscles may be opposed : — 1. By keeping these powers in a continual slate