23 CAT All lower eye-lid ; tiie remains of a pannus ; or, a strong aversion to light. Lastly, as Beer observes, every operation must fail, when the cataract is manifestly joined with complete amaurosis, a dissolution of the vitreous humor, dropsy, or atrophy of the eye, some spe- cies ol ophthalmy, glaucoma, or a general vari- cose affection of the blood-vessels of the eye. The capacity of distinguishing light from dark- ness, and, in a shady place, where the pupil is not too much contracted, of perceiving bright colours and the shadows of objects, is, as Scarpa has par- ticularly noticed, a very important desideratum in every case, selected for operation. The power of distinguishing light from dark- ness, is even more satisfactory, than motion of the iris. I saw many years ago, in St. Bartho- lomew’s and the York hospitals, several cases of complete gutta serena in both eyes, in which there was the freest contraction and dilatation of the pupils. Had such patients been also afflicted with cataract (a complication by no means un- frequent), and a surgeon, induced by the move- able stale of the iris,' had undertaken an opera- tion, it must of course have proved unavailing, since the rays of light could only have been trans- mitted to an insensible retina. Richter, and Wenzel, make mention of these peculiarities, and the latter refers the phenomenon to the iris de- riving its nerves wholly from the lenticular gan- glion, while the immediate organ of sight, is con- stituted entirely byanother distinct nerve. Hence, motion of the iris is not an infallible criterion, according to several authors, (Waihen) that the retina is endued with sensibility. Relat- ing to this subject, Mr. Lucas has made a curi- ous remark : he attended, in conjunction with Hey and Jones, five children of a clergyman at Leaven, near Beverley, who were all born blind. He Writes, “ None of them can distinguish light from darkness, and, although the pupil is, in com- mon. neither too much dilated nor contracted, and has motions, yet these do not seem to de- pend upon the usual causes, but are irregular.” (Mir/. Oby. rmd Ivq. Vnl. 6.) The reciprocal sympathy between the two organs of sight, is so active, that no one, solici- tous to acquire either physiological or pathologi- cal knowledge respecting them, ought, for a mo- ment, to forget it. Hence, in the examination iff cataracts, it is of the highest importance to keep one eye entirely secluded from the light, while the surgeon is investigating the state of the iris in the other ; for, the impression of the rays of light upon one eye, sensible to this stimulus, is known to be often sufficient to produce corre- sponding motions of the iris in the opposite one, although in the state of perfect amaurosis. In other examples of cataract, the pupil may be quite motionless, and yet sight shall be restored after the performance of an operation. (Wenzel.) There are two circumstances, however, which may pfeVctit us from ascertaining, whether the retina is sensible to light or not: the first is, a circular adhesion of the crystalline capsule to the iris. Here Richter thought, that some opi- nion might be formed of the nature of this case, by observing the distance between the cataract and pupil : inferring, that when the space, be- tween the pupil and opaque lens, was inconsider- able, such an adhesion had happened; and, when ACT. the cataract did not seem particularly close to the ||) pupil, and yet the patient could not discern light j from darkness, that it was complicated with amau- ; rosis. The second circumstance, sometimes ut- i terly preventing the ingress of any light to the I] healthy retina, is the round bulky form of the cataract. But, although the power of distinguishing light h from darkness is more satisfactory, than motion j of the iris, it is not an unequivocal test of the jl5' retina being perfectly free from disease. While l»i the gutta serena is incomplete, the patient can I yet distinguish light, and the shadows of objects. Ili Dilatation of the pupil is, also, a deceitful crite- I rion of the complication of gutta serena with the t cataract. When the cataract is large, or adhe- s rent to the iris, the pupil is frequently much di- fi lated, however natural and sound the state of the , optic nerve may be: the pupil often continues ! quite undilated in a perfect gutta serena. (Richter) I From all this it must be manifest, 1 st, that the S irregularity, and inconstancy of the symptoms of gutta serena, together with the possibility of par- J iicular states of the cataract rendering the patient [I utterly unconscious of the stimulus of light, make If it necessary for the surgeon to be particularly at* j| tentive to the appearance, and to the history of the origin and progress of the disease, in order to I understand the real condition of certain cases. 2d, That, when the patient can distinguish light I from darkness, though the iris may be motionless, there is good ground for trying an operation. Possibly, in this circumstance, an incipient amau- rosis may exist, but, the chance of the defect of the iris arising from other causes; the certainly, that the opaque body must be removed from tbfe axis of sight, (even if the disease of the retina be cured,) ere sight can be restored; and the impro- bability, that an operation to cure the cataract, will render the other complaint at all less reme- diable; fully justify the attempt. Frequently, the patient has a full formed cataract in one eve, j which presents the signs of amaurosis, while «n incipient cataract, or one as much advanced, exists in the other which, at present, is free from these symptoms : in this case (says Mr. Travers.) the cataract of the latter should be removed, without delay. (Synopsis, &r. p. 314.) The concurrent testimony of almost all writers upon the subject tends to prove that the restora- tion of sight has sometimes been effected in the most hopeless cases, and I am, therefore, of opi- nion with Mr. Lucas, that in all doubtful cases, an operation should be tried as a remedy, by no means violent or hazardous. (Med. Ohs. and En- quiries, I ol 6 p. 257.) I shall conclude this part of the subject, with annexing the sentiment of Mr. Travers, viz. that it would be incorrect to say, that the operation is unadvisable in all cases of cataract, in which the patient has no sense of light; for, it is possible, that the density of the lens may be such as abso- lutely to exclude the light, and that the motions of the iris may be therefore suspended ; or from some degree of pressure of the lens, or adhesion of the uvea to the capsule, that the pupil may oe undiluted, and the circumference of the lens per- manently covered. But, undoubtedly, says 1* r. Travers, a case of this description is unpromising. ‘ A strong sense of light, by which at least to know the direction, in which it enters the apa