726 JOINTS. the bones; but, as the swelling is chiefly caused by the distention of the synovial membrane, “ its figure depends in a great measure on the situa- tion ot the ligaments and tendons, which resist it in certain directions, and allow it to take place in others. Thus, when the knee is affected, the swelling is principally observable on the anterior and lower part of the thigh,” where there is only a yielding cellular structure between the extensor muscles, and the bone. “ It is also often consi- derable in the spaces, between the ligament of the patella and the lateral ligaments, because at these points, the fatty substance is propelled out- ward by the collection of fluid. In the elbow, the swelling occurs principally above the olecra- non, under the extensor muscles of the forearm; and in the ankle, it is between the lateral liga- ments, and the tendons in front of the joint. In the hip and shoulder, where the disease is less frequent, the fluid cannot be felt, but the swelling is perceptible through the muscles. In the be- ginning of this disease in the hip, a fulness both in the groin and nates maybe remarked; but, afterwardsthenates become flattened, and the glu- taei wasted from want of use. The pain is usually confined to the hip, but Mr. Brodie has seen cases, in which it was also referred to the knee. It may be discriminated from the case, in which the cartilages of the hip are ulcerated, by observ- ing, that the pain is more severe in the beginning, than in the advanced stage of the disease; it never amounts to the excruciating sensation, felt in the other disease; and it is aggravated by motion, but not by pressing the cartilaginous surfaces against each other. The wasting of the glutaei is also preceded by a fulness of the nates. After the inflammation has subsided, the fluid is absorbed, and the joint frequently regains its natural figure and mobility; but, in the majority of cases, stiffness and swelling remain, and the pa- tient continues very liable to relapse, the pain re- turning, and the swelling being augmented, when- ever the patient exposes himself to cold, or exer- cises the limb a great deal. In cases, where the synovial membrane is thickened, a slow kind of inflammation sometimes continues in the part, notwithstanding the fluid has been absorbed, and the principal swelling has subsided, the disease at length extending to the cartilages, suppuration taking place, and the articular surfaces being completely destroyed. According to Mr. Brodie, in this advanced stage, the history of the dis- ease, and not its present appearance, is the only thing, by which one can learn, whether the pri- mary affection was inflammation of the synovial membrane, or ulceration of the cartilages. Though such is the most common character of inflamma- tion of the synovial membrane, it is admitted, that its nature is sometimes more acute, exhi- biting the symptoms mentioned at the beginning of this section. (See Brodie's Pathol, and Surg. Obs.p. 21, #c.) It is remarked by Mr. Wilson, that, when coagulable lymph is effused, the whole of it does not always adhere to the inflamed surface, but some of it forms flakes, which float in the fluid within the joint in masses large enough to be sometimes felt through the capsular ligament. In other instances, the lymph becomes solid, adheres to the inside of the syno- vial membrane, and becomes vascular. I he sur- face of this adventitious coating is sometimes smooth; but, occasionally, it forms thick pro- jecting masses, of different degrees of thickness and length, and so numerous as to conceal every part of the original smooth surface of the syno- vial membrane, as exemplified in a preparation in Windmill-street. (On the Skeleton and Dis- eases of Bones and Joints, p. 31,0.) When inflammation of the synovial membrane has arisen from a protracted, or ill conducted course of mercury, Mr. Brodie recommends a trial of sarsaparilla; and when the disorder is connected with rheumatism, the medicines ad- vised are opium with diaphoretics, preparations of colchicum autumnale, and other usual reme- dies for rheumatic complaints. In some in- stances, however, in which several joints were affected, this gentleman has known benefit de- rived from moderate doses of mercury, (p. 31.) But, whether the disease be local, or dependent on the state of the constitution, Mr. Brodie con- siders topical remedies of most importance. It will considerably shorten what we have to say concerning the treatment of inflamed joints, to observe, that, in the acute form of inflamma- tion of the synovial membrane, the antiphlogistic plan, in the full sense of the expression, is to be strictly adopted. But, as there is a variety of means often adapted to the same purpose, it seems necessary to offer a few remarks on those, which lay the greatest claim to our commenda- tions. There are few other surgical cases, in which general, and especially topical bleeding is more strongly indicated. The violence of the inflam- mation, and the strength, age, and pulse of the patient, must determine, with regard to the use of the lancet; but, the application of leeches may be said to be invariably proper. When the leeches fall off, the bleeding is to be promoted by fomenting the part. The surgeon should daily persist in this practice, until the acute stage of the inflammation has subsided. As Mr. Brodie observes, attention should also be paid to the state of the bowels, and saline draughts, and diaphoretic medicines be exhibited. (Pathol. and Surgical Obs. p. 32.) In conjunction with this treatment, the lotio plumbi acetatis must be em- ployed. In a few instances, however, the patient seems to derive more ease and benefit from the em- ployment of fomentations and emollient poul- tices, which, according to Mr. Brodie, is the case, when the swelling has been produced ra- pidly, and is attended with considerable tension. But, on this point, as I have remarked in speak- ing of Inflammation, the feelings of the afflicted should always be consulted; for, if the pain be materially alleviated by this, or that application, its employment will hardly ever be wrong. Nothing more need be said, concerning the rest of the treatment, proper during the vehe- mence of the inflammation, as the dutj' of the surgeon is not materially different from what it is in other inflammatory cases. As soon as the acute stage of the affection has subsided, the grand object is to remove the ef- fects which have been left. These are a thick- ened state of the capsular ligament, and parts surrounding the articulation; a stiffness of the joint, and pain, when it is moved; fluid in the capsule, Ac.