807 MERCURY. formed on the face, as in other parts of the body, before falling offi divide asunder, so as to leave cracks and fissures, which produce an hideous expression of countenance; and the eyelids are also, from the general swelling of the face, com- pletely closed. The back and hairy scalp are last affected, and, even in very severe cases, these parts are sometimes observed to escape en- tirely. The patient, whilst in this state, is com- pelled to desist from every kind of motion, on account of the pain which he experiences on the slightest exertion, and which he describes as if his flesh were cracking. The crusts also fall off in such abundance, that the bed appears as if strewed with the cones of hops. Whilst the eruption is only making its appearance in one place, another part may have arrived at its most advanced form ; so that all the different stages of the disease may be present at one time in the same individual. It is attended with typhus through its entire course; but it is very curious to observe, that the appetite for food, in most cases, remains unimpaired, and sometimes is even voracious. This circumstance was parti- cularly remarkable in a patient who laboured under the disease, in its worst form, for the space of three months, in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh ; for double the usual hospital allow- ance of food was scarcely sufficient to satisfy his hunger. When the catarrhal symptoms have continued during the progress of the complaint, they are, at this advanced period, particularly ag- gravated : the anxiety and pain of the breast are also very severe, attended with cough, and bloody expectoration, and the patient always feels lan- guid and dejected. The pulse becomes frequent, feeble, and irregular, the tongue black and parched, and at length diarrhoea, delirium, con- vulsions, gangrene of the surface of the body, and death, supervene. In its mild form, it only goes through the first stage, and terminates, as we have already stated, in a few days, by a slight desquamation. Rut, when severe, it is often protracted more than two months, every stage of the eruption continuing proportionably longer; and when, in this manner, it has run its course, it repeatedly breaks out on the new surface, and passes through the same stages.” (MLMullin in Edinb. Med. and Surg. .Journal, No. 5.) With respect to the remote cause, this is the employment of mercury. Dr. M‘Mullin is in- clined to believe with Dr. Gregory, that the ap- plication of cold to the body, while under the ac- tion of mercury, is absolutely necessary, for its production; an opinion strengthened by the con- stant prevalence of catarrhal symptoms. How- ever, Mr. l’earson thinks, that cold has no con- cern in bringing on the complaint in patients under the influence of mercury. At the same time, it merits particular attention, that the dis- ease is not exclusively occasioned bv mercury either in its general, or more partial attacks: it has been observed to follow exposure to cold, and to recur in the same individual, at irregular intervals, without any obvious or adequate cause. (Bateman'* Synopsis, p. 25G, Ed. 3 ; Hotter in Ediv. Mai. and Surg. Journ. Vol. 5, p. 143; Marcel in Med. C/tir. Trans. Vol. 2, art. 9.) In the early stage, Mr. Pearson recommends small doses of antimonial powder, with saline draughts, or the ammonia aeetata. A gentle purgative should be given every three or four days, and opium to procure sleep. The latter medicine sometimes does most good, when joined with camphor, or Hoffman’s anodyne liquor. Sarsaparilla and bark may be given, when the discharge is no longer ichorous, and the tumefaction has subsided. Vitriolic acid has seemed to give relief. The diet may be light and nutritive, without fermented liquors, how- ever, till the desquamation has somewhat ad- vanced. Frequent use of the warm bath, and often changing the patient’s linen and sheets, which soon become stiff and rough with the dis- charge, afford much benefit. If the warm bath cannot be had, Mr. Pearson advises washing the body very tenderly with warm water-gruel; he also covers parts, from which the cuticle is detached, with a mild cerate, and renews the ap- plication twice a day. (P. 173.) Dr. M'Mullin advises the immediate discon- tinuance of mercury ; the removal of the patient from wards, where this mineral is in use; emetics and diaphoretics ; but on account of the very ir- ritable state of the bowels, he says antimonials are hardly admissible, and that when purgatives are indicated, only the mildest ones, such as ol. ricini, sulphate of magnesia, &c. ought to be given. He advises mucilaginous draughts with opium for relieving the soreness of the fauces. In the second stage, the cold infusion of bark with aro- matics and opium, or, what is more praised, wine, porter, &c. To relieve the ophthalmia tarsi, the unguentum oxidi zinci, and to appease the painful sensation of the skin cracking, the linimentum ealcis, which should be liberally ap- plied as soon as crusts appear. Consult Essay' on a Peculiar Eruptive Dis- ease, arising from the Exhibition of Mercury, by G. Alley, 8vo. Dublin, 1804; also Obscrr nations on the Hydrargyria, or that Vesicular Disease arising from the Exhibition of Mer- cury, 4/o. Lond. 1810. A Description of the Mercurial Lepra, by Dr. Mori arty, 12mo. Dublin, 1804. Spcns and M‘Mullin, in Edin- burgh Med. and Surgical Journal, No. 1, and 5. Pearson on Lucs Venerea, Edit. 2. Bale- man's Synopsis, p. 256, efre. Ed. 3. Frictions with Mercurial Ointment. No metal acts in its pure metallic state; it must first be more or less combined with oxygen. The mercury, contained in the unguentum hy- drargyri, becomes in a certain degree oxydated, when triturated for the purpose of blending it with the fat. The metal, however, in mercurial ointment, is in the most simple, and least com- bined form, of all its preparations, and hence, it not only generally operates with more mildness on the system, but, with more specific effect on the disease. Various salts of mercury, when given internally, operate more quickly than mercurial frictions; yet, there are many practi- tioners, who do not like to confide solely, in any internal preparations for curing the venereal dis- ease, particularly, when the virus has produced effects in consequence of absorption. We shall only just mention in this part of the work, that rubbing in mercurial ointment is the mode of af- fecting the system with mercury, which is gene- rally considered to agree best with most constU