ERYSIPELAS. 427 been bled previously to their admission into the hospital, were invariably the most serious and obstinate, particularly, when the bleeding had been frequently repeated. In cases of bilious erysipelas, many modern practitioners would be bolder with antimonials, than Desault, first, by imitating Richter, and living an emetic at the commencement of the attack, and then by exhibiting more freely either antimonial powder, or tartarized antimony, with a dose or tv o of calomel. In phlegimmons erysipelas, Desault was an advocate for bleeding in the beginning of the disorder, and, this practice he followed up by I the administration of tartarized antimony and evacuants. In cases of idiopathic, erysipelas, whether }>hicg- mo ous or bilious, external applications have been deemed useless, or hurtful, by a large proportion of practitioners, amongst whom is Desault. In the early stage of the disease, Dr. Bateman has found powdery substances, like flour, starch, chalk, 6 c. increase the heat and irritation, and afterwards when the fluid of the vesications oozes out, such substances produce additional irritation, by forming with the concreting fluid hard crusts upon the tender surface. This prac- tice is also condemned by Mr. Pearson. The only plan, perhaps, which is unobjectionable, as a means of allaying the irritation produced by the discharge from the vesication, is that advised by Dr. Willan, and which consists in fomenting, or washing the parts from time to time with milk, bran and water, or a decoction of elder-flowers and poppy-heads. In the early stage of the in- flammation, Dr. Bateman has found great relief derived from moderate tepid washing, or the application of the diluted liquor ammon. acet. (Si/nopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, p. 133, Ed. 3.) Though Desault forbids local remedies in cases of idiopathic erysipelas, he does not extend the prohibition to examples, either of bilious or phlegmonous erysipelas, from a contusion, wound, or an ulcer; regimen and internal medicines, ac- cording to Desault, here being insufficient, un- less topical applications are employed to abate the local irritation, and excite suppuration. With this view, he commends cataplasms, but he deems one caution essential, viz. that the application of 1 the poultice should not extend much below the I contused surface, or the edges of the wound. If | any application is permitted on the rest of the erysipelatous surface, he thinks, that it should ] be the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus made weak, j (Parisian Clururg. Journ. Vul. 2.) Mr. Pearson prefers mild warm cataplasms, < composed of the powders of aniseed, fennel, • camomile flowers, See. mixed with a fourth part, ■ or an equal quantity, of bread, and a proper quantity of milk. Linseed powder, he says, may sometimes prove a convenient addition. Little more need here be said, respecting the ! treatment of secondary, or symptomatic erysipelas. • Generally less important, than the other disease, • with which it is associated, its management is . quite subordinate to that of the latter affection. Yhus, when erysipelas makes its appearance round a wound, or ulcer, the practice only re- quires to be somewhat modified according to the circumstances, slate, and nature of the injury, ■ or sore. As for what is termed accidental erysipelas, or that caused by casual local irritation, applied directly to the skin, as from acrid substances, heat, friction, the sting of insects, &c. the re- moval of the cause, the employment of cold, or even ice-cold lotions, and other antiphlogistic means, are the only measures essentially ne- cessary. Cases of universal erysipelas have been suc- cessfully treated by warm-bathing, aperient me- dicines, and small doses of the acetate of potassa. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 13, p. 26'G.) In the cedemutmis erysipelas, perhaps, bleeding is never admissible. The loss of even a very small quantity of blood may have the most fatal consequences. One should also be exceedingly sparing of other evacuations. A determination to the skin should in particular be kept up by antimonials, and irritation and pain soothed by administering the mther sulphuricus, camphor, opium, &c. When the disorder seems to shift its situation to any internal part, and, particularly, to the brain, blisters should be applied between the shoulders, to the head or legs, without the least delay. And, it is in the oedematous erysi- pelas more especially, that the patient’s strength should be supported by tonic remedies, wine, bark, and cordials. In cases of phlegmonous erysipelas, if the in- flammation continues in an unabated form be- yond the seventh, or eighth day, suppuration is to be apprehended. Here Boyer recommends the employment of emollient applications, and im- mediately a fluctuation is distinguishable (or even what he terms “ un cmpatemcvt purulent”) he advises the surgeon to make such incisions as may be necessary for the discharge of the matter. He also states, that the incisions should be made at several depending points. (See Br.ycr’s Truitt des Maladies t hirnrgicales, T. 2, p. 22.) It appears from the observations of Mr. A. C. Hutchison, late surgeon to the Naval Hospital at Deal, that seafaring men are very liable to phlegmonous erysipelas of the extremities, particularly, of the legs. The cause is ascribed to the irritation of the salt water, and the friction of their loose coarse trowsers. In this description of patients, the disease frequently proceeds rapidly to the gan- grenous state, and the consequence is the loss of many lives and limb?. Even when the danger of mortification is avoided, abscesses often occur, which spread between the muscles and under the integuments to a surprising extent: “ from the ankle to the trochanter, and over the glutaei muscles.” In the first few cases, which came under the care of Mr. Hutchison, this gentle- man’s plan of treatment, in addition to the usual medical means, consisted of local bleeding by means of cupping glasses, followed by fomentations. Sub- sequently, however, lie adopted the method of making several free incisions with a scalpel on the inflamed surjace, in a longitudinal direction, through the integuments, and down to the muscles, as early in the disease as possible, and before any secretions have taken place. These incisions may be about on inch and half in length, tico or three inches apart, and vary in number from six to eighteen, according to the extent of surface, which the disease is found to occupy. Mr. Hutchinson states, that these incisions will yield between fifteen and twenty ounces ol blood, and give re-