704 INFLAMMATION. scarlet colour. (Hunter.) very carefully conducted- experiments, it was re- marked, that the weakened action of the smaller vessels was always accompanied with an altera- tion in the appearance of the blood. In the natu- ral state of this fluid, globules can be distinctly seen ; but, after inflammation has commenced, the globular structure disappears, the blood be- comes redder, and the most minute capillaries are distended with it. (Hastings on Inflam- mation, fyc p. 95.) Swelling.—This effect arises from several causes: 1. The increased quantity of blood in the vessels. 2, The effusion of coagulating lymph, and serum, and deposition of new matter. 3. The interruption of absorption, particularly noticed by Soemmering, de. Mart). Vas. Absorb. Pain.—-This is observed to be the greatest during the diastole of the arteries. The affec- tion is probably owing to the unnatural state of the nerves, and not to mere distention, ns many have asserted. Were the latter cause a real one, the pain would always be proportioned to it. “ Parts, which in the sound state have little, or no sensibility (as Dr. Thomson remarks) be- come exquisitely sensible in the inflamed. That this is the case with tendon, ligament, cartilage, bone, and membrane, seems to be fully esta- blished by Dr. Whytt in the very instructive con- troversy carried on between him and Haller, respecting the sensibility and irritability of the different parts of man and other animals.”— (Lectures on Inflammation, p. 4.5.) Heat—The heat or real increase of tempera- ture in an inflamed part, when judged of by the thermometer, is generally much less, than might be supposed from the patient’s sensations. It is said never to exceed the heat of the blood at the heart. This in health is usually about 100°. Fahrenheit’s thermometer; but sometimes in diseases it arises to 106° or even 107”- Mr, Hunter artificially excited inflammation in the chest of a dog, and in the abdomen, rectum, and vagina of an ass, without being able to dis- cover any obvious rise of temperature in these parts. In a patient, however, on whom he ope- rated for hydrocele, the thermometer, introduced into the tunica vaginalis, and kept for some time close to the side of the testicle, was only 92°; but, rose the following day, when inflammation had come on to 98^°. As Dr. Hastings ob- serves, the advocates for excited action of the vessels in an inflamed part have thought, that the increase of temperature favours their hypo- thesis, and have called to their aid the ingenious calculations of Dr. Crawford. They have even gone so far as to say, what state of the arteries enables the blood to give out most caloric. They tell us, that, in consequence of excitement of the vessels, more blood is transmitted into the mi- nute arteries; the capacity of a greater quantity of this fluid for heat is of course diminished, and more caloric is evolved in the inflamed part. (Hastings, on Inflammation, p. 110.) Yet, this theory, besides involving the contradicted hypothesis of an increased and accelerated flow of blood through the vessels of the inflamed part, cannot be reconciled to various other consider- ations. “ Daily experience convinces us, (says the above writer,) that the temperature is not always proportional to the velocity o( the eir- And, in some late culation. In fevers, the author has several timesJ ascertained, with the thermometer, that the heatfl was 101 °, when the pulse beat only 45 times injj a minute. In hydrocephalus, with a pulse fronil b'O to 70, the heat is often above the degree it# reaches in health. In these cases, according tojl the theory of Dr. Crawford, the heat should ratherB be under, than above, the natural standard.’!* (Op. cit. p. 1 12.) And, as another judicioual writer has noticed, although the former mode on explaining the production of animal heat has been! held adequate to account for the phenomena byjl such philosophers as Black, Crawford, Lavoisier,# and Place, the evidence on which it rests, is nooK so clear as to have commanded universal assent)* or entirely set aside objections. It has indeetil been generally allowed, that respiration and then changes it produces in theairand animal fluids,araj essential conditions of the evolution of caloric iuii animals; but, it has been thought, that there aral other circumstances, hitherto, perhaps, not well! understood, which influence the phenomena. ltd external appearance, the blood is the same in alu the vessels of the foetus : is this any proof, than I its temperature is owing to the conversion oil oxygen gas into carbonic acid? Is the uni-B formity of temperature in the higher animals.* under varying states of respiration and circula-J tion, and the consumption of various quantities! of oxygen, whether in the same, or different in-1; dividuals, consistent with the theory? And can# local variations of temperature be explained bvi; it? (Rees's Cyclopcedia, art. Respiration.flI: Doubts must also spring from the recollection oil. the discordance of the experiments, related byjmE Dr. Crawford, Dr. John Davy, De la RoeheJIj and Berard. In fact, the determinations of thejl specific heats of oxygen gas and carbonic acidbyjii the two latter experimenters are conceived to be*lt very much against the probability of Dr. Craw-p ford’s theory. Other stronger grounds for scep-J]J ticism in this subject are the results of Mr-C Brodie’s investigations. Having pithed, or de- capitated animals, he kept up artificial respirn-|j tion, and thus maintained their circulation. The blood continued to be changed in the lungs* ; from venous to arterial, and from arterial trtj | venous, in the general circulation. The respect-*! jt: ive colours of the two kinds of blood could not be j distinguished from those, which they exhibit inti! living and healthy animals. 'I et, the temperature j| of an animal, thus heated, sunk faster, than thauji of another animal simply killed and left to itself and the former was supposed to be more quicklyjii cooled by the air conveyed into its chest. Othei#jj experiments, detailed by Mr. Brodie, tend tofjj prove, that the oxygen of the air. employed iniu artificial respiration, underwent its usual con-*ifr version into carbonic acid. A living rabbitn* formed 50, or .5b’ cubic inches of carbonic aciiwi in an hour. A decapitated animal, in whonwl artificial respiration was kc-pt up, emitted 40—4*1 inches in the same time. The thermometer i*jf the rectum of the latter had fallen from 97 to P0j|| while, in another rabbit left to itself, but similarly!!# treated in all other respects, it had fallen only tif; jl 91. In a rabbit, poisoned with woorara, or thip jj essential oil of bitter almonds, not decapitated,!# and, in which artificial breathing was kept up, 51 cubic inches of carbonic acid were emitted in an t hour. The thermometer in the rectum had surf ji