73 'l JOINTS tendon of the extensor muscles of the ley, all which parts the synovia raises, and pushes for- ward, though in a much less degree, than the capsular ligament. Of these lateral portions, the internal is broadest and most prominent, because the part of the capsule between the patella and edge of the internal condyle being larger, than that situated between the patella and edge of the external condyle, yields in a greater degree to the distending fluid. The motions of tiie leg, which are generally little interrupted by this dis- ease, make a difference in the shape and con- sistence of the swelling. In flexion, the tumor becomes harder, tenser, and broader, and more prominent at the sides of the knee-pan, which is somewhat depressed by its ligament. In extension, the tumor is softer, and the fluctuation plainer. In order to feel distinctly the fluctuation, which is one of the best symptoms of the disease, the ends of two or three fingers should be placed on one side of the swellin o’ while the opposite end of the middle side is to be struck with the finger of the other hand. The patella, being pushed forward, away from the articular pulley, is very moveable, and, as it were, floating. When it is pressed backward, while the leg is extended, it can be felt to move a certain way, before it meets with the resistance of the articular pulley. And on the pressure being discontinued, it immediately separates from this part again. By such symptoms, hydrops articuli may easily be distinguished from other diseases of the joints, from tumors of the bursa mucosa under the extensor tendons of the leg; from ganglions in front of the knee-pan ; from rheu- matism ; oedema, &e. The prognosis is most favourable, when the swelling is recent and small, and has been quick in its progress. On the contrary', when the tu- mor is of long standing and large; the effused fluid thick and viscid; and the synovial mem- brane thickened ; the removal of the fluid by ab- sorption, and the restoration of the parts to their natural state, will be more slow and difficult. The worst case is that, which is complicated with dis- ease of the capsular ligament, cartilages, and bones. The cure of the above described dropsical af- fection of the joints, depends upon the absorp- tion of the effused fluid. And, when the case is combined with acute or chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, the treatment is the same, as that already recommended for those particular forms of disease. When inflammation subsides, the absorption of the fluid is sometimes altogether spontaneous, and it may always be promoted, by mere friction, by rubbing the joint with camphorated mercurial ointment, and par- ticularly, by the employment of blisters. The operation of a blister may be very ma- terially assisted with a moderately tight bandage. Among other effectual means of cure, we may enumerate frictions with flannel impregnated with the fumes of vinegar; electricity; and the ex- hibition of mercurial purgatives. When hydrops articuli occurs during the debility, consequent to typhoid, and other fevers, the complaint t an hardly be expected to get well, before the patient has re- gained some degree of strength. As, however, bydrop? articuli is generally quite a local disease, Boyer contends, that it should be chiefly treated with topical remedies; and he sets down diuretics, sudorifics hydragogues, &c. as improper or inefficient. (Op. cit. p. 467.) lie is strongly in favour of repeated blisters, Loth for the prevention and cure of the disease. Circumstances do not often justify making an opening into the joint; but, excessive distention, in some neglected eases, might certainly be an urgent reason for performing such an operation. Also, if the complaint should resist all other plans of treatment, and the irritation of the tu- mor greatly impair a weak constitution, the practice would be justifiable. An interesting example of this kind is related by Mr. Latta! (System of Surgery, Vol. 2, p. 490.) It is best to make the opening in such a way, that the wound in the capsular ligament after the operation, will not remain directly opposite the wound in the skin. For this purpose, the in- teguments are to be pushed to one side, be- fore the surgeon divides them. (Encyclopedic Method. Part. Chir. Art. Hydropisic dcs Join- tures.) I he operation is not always successful, being sometimes followed by alarming symptoms, which either end fatally, or occasion a necessity for am- putation. Ihe fluid also generally collects again, and as the synovial membrane is mostly thickened, it often inflames, and suppuration in the joint en- sues. Hence, when hydrops articuli originates from rheumatism; when it is recent, indolent, : and not large; and when it does not seriously impair the functions of the joint; Boyer recom- mends the operation not to be done. But, he sanctions its performance, when the disease is combined with extraneous cartilaginous bodies in the joint; or when it is very considerable, at- tended with sfevere pain, and impairment of the functions of the joint. (Op. cit. T. 4, p. 473.) Collections of Blood in Joints.—Most syste- matic writers speak of this kind of case, though it : must be uncommon. Tumors, about the joints, composed of blood, and set down in numerous | surgical works, as extravasations within the cap- sular ligaments, are generally on the outside of i them. Certainly, if a collection of fluid were to take I place in a joint immediately after a sprain, or contusion, and to continue to increase gradually, I for some time afterwards, there would be reason I to believe most of the contents of the tumor to I be blood. The production of an abscess, and the I secretion of any fluid, would have required a I longer time. Were blood known to be undoubtedly effused i in a large articulation, however, no man would *■ be justified in making an opening for its dis- I charge. No bad symptoms are likely to result fi from its mere presence, and the absorbents will,, j in the end, take it away. If an incision were n made into the joint, the coagulated state of the ' extravasated blood would not allow such blood tot be easily discharged. The best plan is to apply discutient remedies;: a lotion of vinegar, spirits of wine and muriate ofl ammonia for the first three or four days; and) afterwards, friction with camphorated linimentsi may be safely adopted. Mr. licy relates a case, in which the knee-joint| was wounded, and blood insinuated itself into they