HERNIA. 635 when the bandage was removed, did not cause the least protrusion. I thought it proper, however, to continue the use of the bandage a little while longer. A small substance, like fungous flesh, projected, after the funis had dropped off] about half an inch from the bottom of that depression which the navel forms. A dossil of lint spread with cerat. e lapide calaminari, and assisted by the pressure of the bandage, brought on a com- plete cicatrization.” (P. 217.) This gentleman has related another example, in which the intestines were quite uncovered, and inflamed, the sac having burst in delivery. The parts were reduced; but the child died. (See also G. A. Fried de Fcetu intestinis plane midis extra abdomen propendentibus nato. Argent. 1760.) UMBILICAL HERNIA IN CHILDREN. The umbilical hernia, which is sometimes formed in the foetus, from causes difficult of ex planation, takes place, in other instances, at the moment of delivery; and then, as Sabatier re- marks, should it, be tied by mistake, with the funis, death would be the consequence. Most frequently, however, it is not till the second, third, or fourth month after birth, that the dis- ease occurs; and the numerous cases collected by Desault prove that, of ten infants attacked with this hernia, nine become afflicted at the pe- riods just mentioned. The umbilicus, still open, now begins to con- tract, so as to close the cicatrix, which, soon forms an obstacle capable of preventing a pro- trusion of the viscera. Sometimes, however, the repeated crying of the child, propels the viscera through the opening, and thus the closure of the cicatrix of the navel is prevented. By degrees, the umbilical ring becomes more and more di- lated, the quantity of protruded bowel increases, and thus a tumor arises, which, from being of trivial size at first, at length, attains the size of an egg, or large walnut, and presents itself with all the characteristic marks of a hernia. The presence of a piece of intestine and omentum in the tumor, keeps the umbilicus open, and opposes the continual tendency which it has to close. Such tendency, however, being sometimes superior to the resistance of the pro- truded parts, forces them back into the abdomen, obliterates the opening through which they passed, and thus the spontaneous cure of the umbili- cal hernia in children is accomplished. Two cases illustrative of this fact, are related by Bi- chat. (GCuvres C/tir. dc Desault, T. 2, p. 318.) Nature, however, does not effect many such cures, and when the case is left to her alone, she not only fails in bringing about a radical cure, but gradually renders it impossible. In short, the propensity of the opening to close dimi- nishes, and is lost, as the subject grows older. J bus, the umbilical hernia of children seems to be essentially different from that of adults, •n the tendency of the aperture to contract. Hence the ease of effecting a radical cure in chil- dfen, and the almost utter impossibility of doing so in adults. In the former, it is enough to keep the inteotincs from protruding, and the opening becomes of itself obliterated; in the lat- ter, the opening always remains, whether the bowels continue in it or not. This indisposition of the aperture to contract in the adult, also fre- quently depends upon the protrusion not being through the umbilical ring itself, but through a fissure in the vicinity of it, not endued with the same natural tendency to close, which the umbi- licus possesses in young subjects. In fact, it would appear from the observations of Scarpa, detailed in the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, that, unless a grown up person has the protrusion from infancy, it never occurs exactly through the umbilical ring itself. The means of curing the umbilical hernia of children, are of three kinds; external applica- tions ; compression ; and the ligature. The first are totally useless; and, as they occasion a waste of time, are improper. Compression, and the li- gature, are the only rational plans. The former is the most modern ; the latter the most ancient treatment, as it is mentioned by Celsus. Desault tells us, that the design both of the ligature and compression is the same. viz. to prevent the lodg-, ment of the protruded viscera in the opening of the umbilicus, and thus facilitate the approxima- tion of its sides. To accomplish this end, the ligature retrenches the hernia! sac, and skin pushed before it; and, by the union of the cut parts, a cicatrix is produced, which hinders the protrusion of the viscera. At the same time, the sides i f the opening, obeying their natural ten- dency, compression closes the deficiency, or opening, in the parietes of the abdomen, hinders the protrusion of the bowels, and keeps these parts from resisting the contraction of the sac. De- sault remarks, that though compression occasions no pain, it is irksome, during the great length of time its employment is necessary. The ligature (he says) produces momentary pain; but it is not at all irksome, and it effects in a few days, what compression, when successful, accomplishes in several months. In one plan, long continual attention is requisite, and if its employment be only for a short time neglected, the previous ef- fect becomes almost destroyed. The other me- thod always accomplishes its object with cer- tainty, independently of the crying of the child, and the care of its attendants. When com- pression is adopted, it is executed either by means of a flat compress applied to the opening, and which does not enter it, or else by means of some round or oval body, such as a ball of wax, a nutmeg, &c. adapted to the shape of the aper- ture, and. as Platner, and Richter, (in his Trea- tise on Hernia) advise, continually kept within the opening. In the first case, Bichat argues, that if the bandage be exactly applied, the skin and sac will form a fold in the aperture of the navel, hinder its closure, and operate in the same manner, from without, inward, as the protruded intestines did from within outward. ■ In the se- cond case, he observes, the foreign body, being depressed .into and maintained in the opening, will occasion, notwithstanding what Richter says, the same inconveniences, and, in a more striking manner, similar consequences. But, on the contrary, when the ligature is employed, the sac and skin of the tumor are removed, while the opening remains free, and nothing prevents its