CAT Alt ACT. 31o '* paraffin' the cataract from the vitreous humor, immediately the opaque substance is disposed to pass out of the eye. Also in the completely tluid cataract, when the capsule is partially opaque auj thickened, a circumstance easily known by appearances, the same mode of extraction must ho attempted. But, if the hook should tear its way out, and the capsule empty itself, the ex- traction must be performed altogether with the forceps. The latter instrument is to be cau- tiously introduced in the same manner as the capsule-needle, into the pupil, one of the largest and thickest portions of the capsule are then to be taken hold of, and suddenly drawn out towards ihe opposite side, by which means, generally the whole anterior layer, and sometimes also the posterior layer of the capsule will be detached, and the pupil immediately cleared. On the con- trary. in what Beer has called the bar-cataract, which, he says, is seldom fit for an operation, as soon as the cornea has been opened, the bar must first be separated, by means of the capsule-needle, from the uvea, in whatever way is found most practicable, and then it is to be extracted with the small cataract-tenaculum, or teeth forceps; when this has been done, the cataract itself must be taken out of the eye in the same manner ns the encysted cataract. (J3. 2, p.377.) When extraction has been completed, the next object is to dress the eye: while the patient turns his eye upwards, the lower eyelid is to be drawn downwards from the eye with the fore- finger, and steadily held so, until the patient has shut his eye as much as possible. At this mo- ment, Beer applies a small strip of adhesive plas- ter, perpendicularly over the fissure of the eyelid, a practice very properly not imitated in this coun- try ; and then a doubled piece of fine linen, which is fastened on the forehead with a common band- age. Both eyes he dresses in the same manner, even when only one has been operated upon. Mr. Mare found, that a dossil of lint, steeped in plain water, or brandy and water, and covered with the spermaceti, or saturnine cerate, and re- moved once every day, is the most easy and con- venient dressing, that can be applied after the operation. The cerate over the lint prevents the latter, when impregnated with the discharge, from becoming stiff, and irritating the lids. Mr. Ware thought the mode of applying the compress and bandage over the eye, a circumstance of no small importance, because, if too loose, the dress- ings are very apt to slip off and, consequently, to press unequally and injuriously on the eye ; and, if too tight, the undue pressure will excite pain and inflammation, and even force out some ' of the vitreous humor. Mr. Ware’s compress is made of soft linen, folded, two or three times, wide enough to cover botli eyes, and sufficiently long to extend from the upper part of the fore- head to the lower part of the nose. This lie pins at the top of the patient’s night-cap; and >its lower part, which is divided in the middle, ■° the nose to come through it, he lays • ooscly over the eyes. The bandage, also made . 0 <' finen, and as broad as six fingers, he car- ies round the head over the compress, and pins '? 1 10 *Me tbc night-cap moderately tight. A ,nP of liucii is afterwards carried under the chin. 1 pinned at each end to the side of the bandage, so as to prevent it from slipping upwards. ( Ware.) Beer recommends the patient to lie upon his back, with his head not too low, and in a chamber which is not too light, and to remain in this way at least until the wound in the cornea is closed. As, during the first two days after the operation, the doubled piece of linen, which Beer places over the eye, is repeatedly wet through with the dis- charged aqueous humor, it is to be changed several times a day, care being taken to let the fresh pieces of linen be well aired and warmed. With respect to the after treatment, Beer also en- joins the observance of every thing, which has been already pointed out as proper after depression and reclination; and, in particular, while the wound in the cornea is not firmly healed, and the eye cannot be kept open, the patient must refrain from taking snuff and smoking tobacco. According to the same author, no thoughts should be entertained of opening the eye again, till two, or three days after the discharge of the aqueous humor has completely ceased ; a circumstance always indi- cated by slight prickings in the eye itself, by a burning, though not very severe, pain, attending the escape of that fluid from the inner eanthus, and in irritable, nervous, debilitated subjects, even by the sensation of transient luminous appear- ances. Therefore, Beer says, the eye should sel dom be opened before the 5th, or 6th day. When this is first done, the light should be very mode- rate, and the patient placed with his back towards it, all unnecessary lateral light beingkeptfrom the eye by the linen attached to the forehead, while the daily trials of the newly recovered powers of the eye should be made with the utmost precau- tion. On the 8th, 9th, or, at latest, on the 1 Oth day, Beer recommends leaving the eye open, but screen - ed above by a green eve-shade, in a half dark- ened chamber; and he is afterwards to be treated, until his eye is perfectly well, according to the rules already laid down as proper to be observed after couching. And, especially when the patient has had cataracts in both eyes, Beer thinks it as well to apprize him, in order to prevent unneces- sary alarm, that, upon first going out into the open air, particularly in the evening, he will be for some moments almost blinded, and then begin to see again, but every object will now appear co- vered with a white, shining circle, which at length goes off’; though, in the open air, it will some- times continue for several days. (15. 2, p. 380.) The late Mr. Ware published an inquiry into the causes preventing the success of extraction of the cataract. The first, which he considers, is making the incision through the cornea too small. In this circumstance a degree of violence will be required to bring the cataract through the wound; and, if the cataract be not altered in its figure, tbe wound will be forcibly dilated, and the edge of the iris compressed between the cornea and the cataract. In this way, either some of its fibres may be ruptured, or it may be otherwise so much injured, as to excite a considerable degree of inflammation, and even induce, in the end, a closure of the pupil. This accident may arise from the operator’s cutting the cornea, without being able to see ex- actly the position of this membrane, in conse- quence of the eye having turned inward, owing (o its not being properly fixed. The fault may also