GRANULATIONS. 523 Treatise on the Venereal Disease, by J. Hunter, 1788. I! Rowley, The must cogent Reus,ms, why astringent Injections, §c. should be banished, iJr. 8t<>. howl. 1800. J. II G. Schlegel, Versvch einer Geschichtc des Strcites iiber die I dent it'd t des Venus and Trippergiftes, 12mo. Jence. 1706. IVhutely on the Gonorrhea Vmtlenta, 8vu. Loud. j 801. React. Obs. on Venereal Complaints, by F. Smediaur, M. D. Edit. 3. An Enquiry into some oj' the EjJtcts of the Venereal Poison, by S. Sairrey, 1802. Ohs. on Morbid Poisons, by J. Adams, 31. jD. Edit. 2, 1807. J. C. Jacobs, Demonstration del'ldenlue des Virus de la Ft rule et de la Gonoirhce, 8to. Bruielhs, 1811. J. F. Hernandez, Essui Analytique sur la von- idattite des Virus Gonorhoique et sypliilitique, Sen. Toulon, 1812. H. Carmichael, Essays on the Vend eat Diseases, which have been confounded uith Syphilis, 3c. 4to. Loud. 1S14, and his Obs. on the Symptoms and Specific Distinctions of Venereal Diseases, 8to. hand. 1818. GORGET. An instrument, used, in the operation of lithotomy, for the purpose of cutting the prostate gland and neck of the bladder, so as to enable the operator to introduce the forceps and extract the stone. It is, in fact, a sort of knife, at the end of which is a beak, that fits the groove of the staff, and admits of being pushed along it into the bladder. Besides cutting gorgets, constructed for the preceding design, there are also blunt ones, in- tended to be introduced into the wound, when their concavity serves as a guide for the forceps into the bladder. GRANULATIONS. The little, grain-like, fleshy bodies, which form on the surfaces of ul- cers, and suppurating wounds, and serve both for filling up the cavities, and bringing nearer to- gether and uniting their sides. We must here consider the operations of na- ture, in bringing parts as nearly as possible to their original state, whose disposition, action, and structure have been altered by accident, or disease. Having formed pus, she immediately sets about forming new matter, upon surfaces in which there has been a breach of continuity. This process is called granulating, or incarnation; and the substance formed is called urunulations. Granulations arc an accretion of animal mat- ter upon the wounded, or exposed surface; they are formed by an exudation of the coagulating lymph from the vessels; into which new sub- stance, both the old vessels very probably ex- tend, and in which new ones are formed. Hence, granulations are extremely vascular; indeed, more so than almost any other animal substance. “ That this is the case (says Air. Hunter) is seen in sores every day. I have often been able to trace the growth and vascularity of this new substance. 1 have seen upon a sore a white sub- stance exactly similar, in every visible respect, to coagulating lymph. I have not attempted to wipe it off, and the next day of dressing I have found this very substance vascular; for, by wip- ing, or touching it with a probe, it has bled freely. I have observed the same appearance on the surface of a bone that lias been laid bare. J once scraped off some of the external sur- face of a bone of the foot to see if the surface would granulate. I remarked the following (lav, that the surface of the hone was covered with a whitish substance, having a tinge of blue- When I passed my probe into it, I did not feel the hone bare, but only its resistance. 1 con- ceived this substance to be coagulable lymph thrown out from inflammation, and that it would be forced off when suppuration came on ; hut, on the succeeding day, I found it vascular, and appearing like healthy granulations.” The ves- sels in granulations pass from the original parts to their basis, and thence towards their external surface, in tolerably regular parallel lines. The surface of this new substance has the same dis- position to secrete pus, as the parts which pro- duced it. The surfaces of granulations are very convex, the reverse of ulceration, having a great many small points, or eminences, so as to appear rough. The smaller such points are, the more healthy are the granulations. The colour of healthy granulations is a deep florid red. When livid, they are unhealthy, and have only a languid circulation. Healthy granulations, on an ex- posed or flat surface, rise nearly even with the surface of the surrounding skin, and often a little higher; but, when they exceed this, and take on a growing disposition, they are unhealthy, be- come soft, spongy, and without any disposition to form skin. Healthy granulations are always prone to unite to each other, so as to be the means of uniting parts. Granulations are not easily formed on the side of an abscess, nearest the surface of the body. They are not endowed with the same powers as parts originally formed. Hence, they more readily ulcerate, and mortify. The curious mode in which granulations contract, when sores are healing, and even for some time after they are healed, we have explained in the article Cicatri- zation. (See A Tieatise on the Blood, Inflam- mation, djc. by John Hw.ter, p. 473, et scq. 1794.) It is a question, whether granulations can ever be formed without suppuration ? Mr. Hunter seems inclined to think, that they may occasion- ally be produced without it, and he supports his opinion by the relation of the dissection of a frac- tured limb, in which he observed a substance re- sembling granulations. Dr. John Thomson, on the other hand, declares, that he lias never seen* any thing, which he could regard as an example of a granulation, and still less of a granulating surface, where pus was not formed. (See Lec- tor’s on Inflammation, p. 408.1 The exact process, by which the blood vessels, nerves, and absorbents of granulations are formed, is still amongst flie secrets of nature. The observations of Mr Hunter on the subject amount only to conjecture. “ The growth of nerves, and their developement in new formed flesh, or granulations (says Dr .1. Thomson), is a subject of equal curiosity with the growth of blood-vessels in the same structure. Their ex- istence in granulations is proved by the pain, which is felt on our pinching, rubbing, or wiping, the surfue'e of a sore. Even the granulations, which arise from the surface of bone, are sensi- ble, though we are not very well able to prove the sensibility of the larger branches of nerves, frpm which the newly formed, and sensible nerves and filaments in the granulation, are immediately derived. All the difficulties, which 1 formerly mentioned to you, as occurring in the explana-