ANEURISM. ture of the inner coats of an artery, are always at first circumscribed by the resistance of the outer tunic. ”1 he circumscribed false aneurism consists of a sac, composed of the external coat of the artery, or, in case this has given way, it is com- posed of an artificial pouch, formed amongst whatever parts happen to be in the vicinity of the burst artery. This cavity is filled with blood, and situated close to the artery, with which it has a communication. Hence, in false aneurisms, a throbbing is always perceptible, and is more manifest, the smaller such tumors are. The larger the sac becomes, the less elastic it is, and the greater is the quantity of laminated coagula in it; so that in very large aneurisms of this kind, the pulsation is sometimes wholly lost. 1 The tumor is at first small, and on com- pression entirely disappears; but, returns as soon as this is removed. It also diminishes, when the artery above it is compressed; but, resumes its wonted magnitude, immediately such pressure is discontinued. When there is coagu- lated blood in the sac, pressure is no longer capable of producing a total disappearance of the tumor, which is now hard. The swelling is not painful, and the integuments are not changed in colour. It continually increases in size, and, at length, attains a prodigious magnitude. The following are generally enumerated, as the discriminating differences between circum- scribed true and false aneurisms: the true aneu- rism readily yields to pressure, and as readily recurs on its removal; the false one yields very gradually, and returns in the same way; and, as it contains laminated coagula, it cannot be re- duced in the same degree by compression, as an aneurism formed by a dilatation of the arterial coats, where such strata of coagulated blood are usually absent. Frequently, a hissing sound is audible, when the blood gushes into the sac. The pulsation of the false aneurism is always more feeble, and, as the tumor enlarges, is sooner lost, than that of the true one, which throbs after it has acquired a considerable volume. (See Richter’s Aufangsgr. 13. 1.) FORMATION OF ANEURISMS. If the doctrines of Scarpa, published in 1804, had proved correct, the grand distinction of aneurism into true and false must have been rejected, as erroneous: “ for,” says he, “ after a very considerable number of investigations, instituted on the bodies of those, who have died of internal, or external aneurisms, I have ascer- tained, in the most certain and unequivocal manner, that there is only one kind, or form of this disease; viz. that caused by a Solution of continuity, or rupture of the proper coats of the artery, with effusion of blood into the surround- ing cellular substance: which solution of con- tinuity is occasioned sometimes by a wound, a steatomatous, earthy degeneration, a corroding ulcer, or a rupture of the proper coats of the artery, I mean the internal and muscular, without the concurrence of a preternatural dilatation of these coats being essential to the formation of this disease; and, therefore, that every aneurism, whether it be internal, or external, circumscribed, or diffused, is always formed by effusion.” (Treatise on Aneurism: Trunsl. by Wishurt, Reef) According to Scarpa, it is an error to suppose, that the aneurism at the curvature, or in the trunk, of the aorta, produced by a violent and sudden exertion of the whole body, or of the heart in particular, and preceded by a congenital relaxation of a certain portion of this artery, or a morbid weakness of its coats, ought always to be considered, as a tumor formed by the dis- tention, or dilatation of the proper coats of the artery itself, that is, of its internal and fibrous Coats. Scarpa considers it quite demonstrable, that such aneurisms are produced by a corrosion and rupture of these tunics, and, consequently, by the effusion of arterial blood under the cellular sheath, or other membrane, covering the vessel. If ever there be a certain degree of preceding dilatation, it is not essential to constitute the disease: for it is not a constant occurrence, most aneurisms are unpreceded by it, and, in those rare cases, in which an aneurism is preceded and accompanied with a certain degree of dila- tation of the whole diameter of the curvature of the aorta, there is an evident difference between an artery simply enlarged in diameter, and the pouch, which forms an aneurismal sac. Careful dissections, says Scarpa, will prove, that (he aorta contributes nothing to the formation of the aneurismal sac, and that this is merely the cellular membrane, which, in the sound state, covered the artery, or that soft cellular sheath, which the artery received in common with the neighbouring parts. This is raised by the blood into the form of a tumor, and is covered, in com- mon with the artery, by a smooth membrane. This eminent professor does not deny, that, from congenital relaxation, the proper coats of the aorta may occasionally yield and become disposed to rupture; but, he will not "admit, that dilatation of this artery precedes and ac- companies all its aneurisms, or that its proper coats ever yield so much to distention, as to forni the aneurismal sac. The root of an uneu- risin of the aorta never includes the whole circum- ference of the artery ; but the aneurismal sac arises from one side in the form of an appendix, or tuberosity. On the contrary, the dilatation of the artery always extends to its whole circum- ference, and, therefore, differs essentially from aneurism. Thus, he urges, that there is a remarkable difference between a dilated and an aneurismatic artery, although these two affections are sometimes found combined together, especially, at the origin of the aorta. If we also consider, that the dilata- tion of an artery may exist, without any organic affection, the blood being always in the cavity of the vessel: that in an artery so affected, there is never collected any grumous blood, or poly- pous layers; that the dilatation never forms a tumor of considerable bulk; and, that, while the continuity of the proper coats remains uninter- rupted, the circulation of the blood is not at all, or not so sensibly changed, we shall be obliged to .allow, that aneurism differs essentially from one kind of dilatation of an artery. Some additional remarks on this topic, more recently published by Scarpa, will be presently considered. By dissections of arteries, both in the sound