8 ALU heart, in cases of asphyxia, must create that sensation. (See Berlioz, J\Um. sur les Maladies Chroni'ques, el sur l'Acupuncture, p. 305-309, Hvo. Paris, I 8 Ih’.) ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. That kind ot inflammation, which makes parts of the body adhere, or grow together. It is the process, by which recent incised wounds are often united, without any suppuration, and it is frequently synonymous with union by the flrst intention. (See Union by the First Intention.') iEGYLOPS (from a goat, and u;4., an eye). A disease so named from the supposition that goats were very subject to it. The term means a sore just under the inner angle of the eye. The best modern surgeons seem to consider the regylops, only as a stage of the fistula lachry- malis. Mr. Pott remarks, when the skin covering the lachrymal sac has been for some time in- flamed, or subject to frequently returning inflam- mations, it most commonly happens, that the punetalachrymaliaare affected by it, and the fluid, not having an opportunity of passing off by them, distends the inflamed skin, so that, at last, it be- comes sloughy, and bursts externally. This is the state of the disease, which is called perfect aiguiops, or (sgylops. (Pott on Fistula Lachrymalis.) iEgylops was a very common term with the old surgical writers, who certainly did not suspect, that obstruction in the lachrymal parts of the eye, is so frequently the cause of the sore, as it really is. The skin over the lachrjunal sac must un- doubtedly be, like that in every other situation, subject to inflammation and abscesses; but, we do not find, that sores, unconnected with disease of the lachrymal sac, are here so frequent, as to merit a distinct appellation. iERUGO (Subncctas Cupri.) Prepared ver- digrise is occasionally employed by surgeons as an escharotic. Mixed with an equal quantity of powdered lyttse, it is sometimes used as an ap- plication for destroying warts and other excre- scences. At present, the old practice of attempting to destroy the surface of chancres with it, with the view of hindering the absorption of the vene- real poison, and rendering the exhibition of mer- cury needless, appears to be exploded. AGARIC. A species of fungus, growing on the oak, and formerly much celebrated for its efficacy in stopping bleeding. (See Hemorrhage.) ALBUGO (from albas, white). A white opacity of the' cornea, not of a superficial kind, but affecting the very substance of this mem- brane. The disease is similar to the leucoma, with which it will be considered. (See Leucoma.) ALPHONSIN is the name of an instrument for extracting balls. It is so called from the name of its inventor Alphonso Ferrier, a Neapo- litan physician. It consists of three branches, which separate from each other by their elasticity, but are capable of being closed by means of a tube, in which they are included. ALUM. (An Arabic word). Alum, either in its simple state, or deprived of its water of crystallization, by being burnt, has long been used in surgery. The ingenious author of the Pharmacopoeia Chirurgica remarks, that except for external use, as a dry powder, the virtues of alum are not improved by exposure to fire. Ten grains of alum, made into a bolus with conserve of roses, are given thrice a day at Guy’s llospi- ALV tal, in such cases, as demand powerful tonic, or astringent remedies. In a relaxed state of the urinary passages, or want of power of the sphinc- ter vesicae, small doses of alum have been found of service. Alum is employed as an ingredient in several astringent lotions, gargles, injections, and collyria. It is also recommended by Dr. Perceval, as a remedy for counteracting the poison of lead. Burnt alum is a mild caustic, and is a principal ingredient in most styptic powders. ALVINE CONCRETIONS. Comprehend- ing under this head both gall-stpnes and intestinal concretions, an interesting subject presents itself, certain parts of which have been chiefly elucidated in modern times, as will be hereafter explained : where the concretions voided are very numerous, they are generally gall-stones. Thus Dr. Coe relates an instance, in which seventy were dis- charged in one day. In the same short time Petermann knew of seventy-two being voided from one individual; Birch, one hundred ; Bar- bette, Sloane, and Vogel, two hundred; and Russell, four hundred. A patient, under the care of Van Swieten, had voided two hundred, and was still continuing to expel others. Iiiverius speaks of another patient, who had voided calculi from the bowels for several years whenever he went to stool. (Observ. Commun.) Femelius likewise adverts to eases, in which the concretions evacu- ated were innumerable. (Pathol, lib. 6. cup. 9.) But if we take a Hew of alvine concretions ge- nerally, and include all their different kinds, we shall 'find that they are of various sizes. Most of them are not larger than a pea or nut; but others are as large as an orange, and weigh four pounds. (See Monro's Morbid Anat. of the Hu- man Gullet, <Sfc. and Medico-Cliir. Joum. vol. 4. p. 188.) Morgagni saw one, which equalled in size a moderate finger, and Gooch, Guettard, Heuermann, Mareschai, (Mem. del'Acad Roy- ale de Chir. t. 3. p. 55.) and others, have seen con- cretions of this nature, which were too voluminous to pass -out of the rectum without surgical aid. In certain examples, recorded by Heuermann and Mareschai, the passage of the concretion outward lacerated the sphincter ani. Horstius speaks of one concretion, which was as large as an apple, (Epist-1. 2. sect.2.Opp. 2. p. 237.) and Marcellus Donatus, Schwind, (Srhmucktr's Verm.SchriJten, 2 h.p. 129.) Hooke, Venette, and Hecquet, give the particulars of other examples, in which the concretions discharged were as .large as a hen’s egg. Mr. Charles White extracted two from the rectum which were nearly as big as the fist; (Cases in Surgery, p. 18.) and in a boy, who had died in an emaciated state, after continued pain in the abdomen, attended with frequent attacks of ileus, Mr. Hey found in the transverse arch of the colon so large a concretion, that it could not pass any further along the bowel, and appeared to have been the sole cause of the boy’s death. (Practical Obscrualions in Surgtry, p. 509. rd. 2.) An analogous case is also reported by White (p. 28.) It is stated, in the Mini, de I’Acnd. de Chir. that Duhamel saw a concretion that had been discharged, which was two inches and a half in length, one inch and a half in diameter, three inches and a half in circumfer- ence, and tlic weight of which was three drams and a half. But, judging by their weight, how