AMPUTATION. a natural limb ; ami since also, the operation at the lower part of the leg is more easy of per- formance, and safer, than when done high up ; some very eminent surgeons have thought that it ought always to be done near the ankle, when possible, instead of near the knee. Mr. White of Manchester, in a paper dated 176'9 (Met/. Ohs. and Inq. vnl. 4.), informs us, that he took the hint to amputate a little above the ankle, from seeing a case, in which this had been done by a simple incision, with such suc- cess, that the patient could walk extremely well, though with a machine that was very badly con- structed. After this, Mr. White began to operate above the ankle with the double incision ; and he invented a machine much better calculated for the patient to walk upon. In 1773, Mr. Bromfield published his Cliirur- ■f’Kul Cases and Observations, wherein he mentions his having begun about the year 1740 to ampu- tate above the ankle, in a case of gangrene of this part of the leg. The patient walked so well, with the aid of a very simple machine, both along a level surface, and in going up and down stairs, that it was difficult to perceive he had lost his foot. Mr. Bromfield was persuaded, how- ever, to give up this practice, until he learned that, in 1754, a Mr. Wright had thrice ampu- tated in this way with success, when he again had recourse to it, without the least unpleasant con-' sequences. (See Chir. Cases and Obs. vol. 1. p. 18,9, $c.) The advantage of amputating a little below the knee is, that pressure in walking with a wooden leg is entirely confined to the front of the limb, and the cicatrix itself is not subjected to irrita- tion. After amputating at the ankle, the pressure in walking operates directly on the cicatrix ; but if the mechanical contrivances for walking are now brought to such perfection, that this pressure does no harm, the operation, perhaps, ought not to be entirely abandoned. According to Sabatier, however, the plan has been extensively tried in France, and not found to answer, the stump being incapable of bearing pressure, and not con- tinuing healed. (Me de cine Opdratoire, T. 3. p. 377. edit. 2.) Baron Larrey also speaks of it as an objectionable operation, not merely because some patients, as for instance, soldiers, have not the means of providing themselves with artificial legs, of the above description, but because it is almost always followed by bad symptoms, owing to the small quantity of cellular substance anil flesh, and the thickness of the bone at this part of the leg, whereby cicatrization is impeded. A nervous irritation is more apt to be produced by this, than the common mode of operating, and the suppuration, which is always sanious, takes place with difficulty. “ I have (says Larrey,) seen many amputations done at this part, but nearly all the patients died of nervous fever, or tetanus.'’ (Mem. dc Chir. Mil. t. 3. p. 3.94.) In the foregoing columns, I have given some account of the flap-amputation of the leg, as done by Lowdham, Verduin, Garengeot, Vermale, and others, arid, in particular, the practice of O’Hal- loran has been touched upon, whose chief pecu- liarity, viz. that of not laying down the flap until ten or twelve days had elapsed, was un- questionably his greatest error, though the idea may have, been admired and followed by'a few speculators in modern times. (See Faroisse, Opusr. de Chir. p. lfjG, <£c. Furis, 180(h) This last author, who is a general approver of flap- amputations, leaves the stump unclosed for some days after the removal of the limb; but what i surprises me is, to hear, that, in one of the finest hospitals in this metropolis, three or four trials j have been made, in the course of the last year, of J a modification of this absurd practice, after am- j putation by the circular incision. Instead of I bringing the sides of the wound together, the j stumps were only partially closed, and kept for a day or two covered with wet linen. The last patient whom I heard of as having been treated in ! this manner, died a few days after the operation; ; and it gives me pleasure to hear, that all further intention of subjecting more patients to the ex- periment, in the hospital alluded to, is given up. In flap amputations below the knee, Alan- son and Lucas conjectured, that the cure might I be rendered more safe, easy, and expeditious, by j applying the flap, with the view of uniting it by • the first intention. The following case explains Mr. Alanson’s flap-operation. The disease was in the left leg, the patient, therefore, lay on his right side, i upon a table of convenient height, so as to turn the part to be first cut fully into view. The in- tended line, where the knife was to pass in form- ing the flap, had been previously marked out with • ink. A longitudinal incision was made with a j common scalpel, about the middie of the side of j the leg ; first on the outside, then on the inside, ; and across the tendo Achillis : hence, the in- tended flap was formed, first by incisions through the skin and adipose membrane, and then com- pleted by pushing a catling through the muscular j parts in the upper incised point, and afterwards carrying it out below, in the direction of the line already mentioned. The flap was thick, con- I taining the whole substance of the tendo Achillis. I The usual double incision was made; the retractor J applied to defend the soft parts ; and the bone j divided, as high as possible, with the saw. The flap was placed in contact with the naked ! stump, and retained there, at first, by three super- ficial stitches, between which adhesive plasters i were used. Notwithstanding the patient caught an infectious fever a few days afterwards, the stump healed in three weeks, except half an inch at the inner angle, where the principal vent had been. In another week, the wound was reduced to a spongy substance, about the size of a split- pea. This, being touched with caustic, healed in a few days. The man was soon able to use an artificial leg, with which he walked remarkably well. He went several voyages to sea, and did his business with great activity. He bore the pressure of the machine totally upon the end of the stump, and was not troubled with the least excoriation or soreness. In the next instance, in which Mr. Alanson operated, he formed the flap by pushing a double- edged knife through the leg, and passing it down- wards and then outwards, in a line, first marked out for the direction of the knife. In this way, the flap was more quickly made. (Alanson on Amputation.) The leg should be completely extended during the operation ; and kept in that posture till the wound is perfectly healed.