FRACTURES. 497 ever, are not so easily ascertained, and, for want of attention, have been frequently confounded with luxations of that bone. Yet, the diagnostic symptoms of these two affections are very dif- ferent. When the neck of the humerus is fractured, a depression is observed at the upper part and ex- ternal side of the arm, very different from what accompanies the luxation of that bone down- ward and inward. In the latter case, a deep de- pression is found, just below the projection of the acromion, in the natural situation of the head of the humerus; whereas, in fracture of the neck of that bone, the shoulder retains its natural form, the acromion does not project, and the de- pression is found below the point of the shoulder. Besides, on examining the arm-pit, instead of finding there a round tumor, formed by the head of the humerus, the fractured and unequal extre- mity of that bone will be easily distinguished. The motion of the broken portions, and the cre- pitus, thus produced, serve still further to establish the diagnosis. [Boyer.) In a simple fracture of the body of the humerus, the prognosis is generally favourable; but frac- tures near the elbow are liable to be followed by more or less stiffness of the joint, often very dif- ficult of removal. In ordinary fractures of the os brachii, it is usual to apply two pieces of soap-plaster, which together surround the limb, at the situation where the accident has happened. Extension, if ne- cessary, being now made by an assistant, who at once draws the lower portion of the bone down- ward and bends the elbow, the surgeon is to ap- ply a roller round the limb. The external splint is to extend from the acromion to the outer con- dyle, and, being lined with a soft pad, the wood cannot hurt the limb by pressure. The internal splint is to reach from the margins of the axilla to a little below the inner condyle, and is to be well guarded with a pad, filled with tow, or any other soft materials. Some surgeons are content with the applica- tion of two splints ; but, though the two, above described, are those on which we are to place the greatest reliance, yet, as the cylindrical form of the arm conveniently allows us completely to in- case this part of the limb in splints, I consider the employment of four better; one on the out- side, one on the inside, one on the front, and another on the back of the arm. These are to be carefully fixed in their respective situations by means of tape. Throughout the treatment, the elbow and whole of the fore-arm are to be quietly and ef- fectually supported in a sling. fracture of the head, or neck of the os BRACHII. Chirurgical language here differs from that adopted by anatomists, and, under the name of •racture of the neck of the humerus, is not meant, that of the circular, hardly perceptible depression, which separates the head from the tuberosities of tus bone. By this expression, surgeons imply e fracture of that contracted part of the liu- morus, which is bounded above by those tubero- uties ; which below is continuous with the body of the bone; which has the tendons of the pecto- ralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major in- serted below it; and which many practitioners extend even as low as the insertion of the deltoid muscle. Indisputable facts, however, prove the possi- bility of the anatomical neck of the bone being fractured, and C. Larbaud shewed Bichat the humerus of a young man, aged 17, the head of which bone was accurately detached from its body, by a division which had obliquely interested the upper part of the tuberosities. An in- stance of this kind, I think, was pointed out to me this spring (1821) in St. Bartholomew’s hospital. The patient was a boy, whose elbow had been strongly kept up, on the supposition, that the case was a fracture of the neck of the scapula, and, consequently, the irregular end of the humerus formed a remarkable projection in front of the acromion, yet capable of being pushed back, where, however, it would not re- main. When the accident is produced by a di- rect blow or fall on the fleshy part of the shoulder,, the deltoid is sometimes contused and affected with ecchymosis. Even blood may be effused from some of the ruptured articular veins, or arteries, and form a collection, which Desault recommended to be speedily opened, though the reason of such practice, as a general thing, must be questionable, because large extravasations of blood about the shoulder are usually very soon absorbed. The counter-fracture arises from a fall on the elbow, when this part is separated from the trunk, or else from a fall on the hand, which a natural instinct makes us extend, with the arm and fore- arm, to protect ourselves at the time of falling. The whole of the symptoms of a fracture of the neck of the humerus sufficiently denote its existence; but, it is not always an easy matter to see this whole, and here more difficulties oc- cur in the diagnosis, than in any other fracture of the humerus. An acute pain is experienced at the moment of the fall; sometimes, the noise of something breaking is heard. There is always a sudden in- ability to move the limb, which, left to itself, re- mains motionless. But, on external force being- applied to the member, this readily yields, and admits of being moved, with the greatest ease, in every direction. An acute pain attends such motion, which, carried too far, may cause bad consequences, as has been observed in patients in whom the frac- ture has been mistaken for a dislocation. Below the acromion a depression is remark- able, always situated lower down, than that which attends a dislocation. If we place one hand on the head, while the lower part of the bone is moved in various directions with the other hand; or, if, while extension is made, an assistant com- municates to the bone a rotator}’ motion, the fol- lowing circumstances are perceived. 1. The head of the humerus remains motionless. 2. A more or less distinct crepitus is felt, arising from the two ends of the fracture rubbing against each • other. These two symptoms are characteristic of the accident; but the swelling ol the joint may prevent us from detecting them. Sometimes there is no displacement ol the K K