INFLAMMATION. 701 lated during the state of inflammation. The infractions of these vessels, indeed, it has been lid are increased also in a ratio proportional to le ’dilatations; but, this is an assertion, which as not yet been proved, either in the way of speriment. or of observation. c -fi,e sense of throbbing, which the advocates r the hypothesis of increased capillary action ■(rard as the strongest proof of that action, Mr. .hen is disposed to attribute to the difficulty, hich the blood meets with in passing from the unk into the capillary branches. This sensation f throbbing, and appearance of increased action, ,.iay be produced in an instant, by applying a r. jam re to an uninflamed finger, so as to ob- ruct the motion of the blood through its point, esides, this throbbing, or pulsatory motion, can "ford us no criterion, by which to judge of the >ree, with which the artery contracts, for, it is •odueed in the dilatation of the artery, and by a .owcr foreign to the artery itself.” (Thomson i Inflammation, p. 73.) Dr. Wilson Philip, many years ago, en- deavoured to ascertain, by means of the micro- :ope, the state of the vessels in the various Liages of inflammation, both in the warm and i lid blooded animal. I have put the epithet arm in Italics, because it has been very recently i bserved by my friend Mr. James, that “ ana- .tgies between the higher and lower orders of fimals, the chief subjects of these experiments, . innot be deemed conclusive.” (On some of the •encral Principles of Inflammation, p. 29, vo. Land. 1821) as if it had escaped attention, tat many of the experiments were really made l the more perfect animals. From the yaluable s jservations, to which I here allude, (See Philip ■i Febrile Diseases, Part 2, Introd.) it appears, . tat the state of the smaller vessels in an inflamed art is that of preternatural distention and de- lity. As for the larger vessels, whose state my be ascertained, without the aid of the mi- roscope, “ they do not undergo a similar dis- union, and the increased pulsation of the ar- •ries sufficiently evinces their increased action, n inflammatory affections of the jaw and the ead, for example, a greatly increased action of le maxillary and temporal arteries is readily per- eived by the finger. It is to be observed, how- ver, that, although inflammation, as was evident om the foregoing experiments, begins in the ipillaries, if it continues, the circulation in the nallest vessels becoming very languid, those nmediately preceding them in the course of • le circulation begin to be distended, and conse- f ientlv debilitated.” Dr Philip adds, that such < istention and debility of the vessels, which im- -lediately precede the capillaries, cannot go far, acause when the former lose their power, the rculation in the latter is not supported, and angrene soon ensues. “ In short, (says Dr. milip) inflammation seems to consist in the ehitity of the capillaries, followed bp an in• -cased action of the larger arteries,” and is uminated by resolution, when the capillaries re so far excited, and the larger arteries so far eakened, by the preternatural action of the itter, that the power of the capillaries is again ' due proportion to the vis d tergo. “ Thus far. (says Dr. Philip) I cannot help unking the nature of inflammation appears suf- ficiently evident. The motion of the blood is retarded in the capillaries, in consequence of the debility induced in them ; an unusual obstacle is thus opposed to its motion in the arteries preced- ing them in the course of the circulation; which are thus excited to increased action. Several difficulties, however, remain, on which the ex- periments just related throw no light. Why does a failure of power, of small extent in the ca- pillaries of a vital part, strongly excite, not only the larger arteries of the part affected, but those of the whole system ; while a more extensive de- 'bility of the capillaries of an external part excites less increased action in the larger arteries of that part, and often none ai all in those of the system in general? Why does inflammation often move suddenly from one part to another, when we sec- no cause, either increasing the action of the ca- pillaries of the inflamed part, or weakening those of the part now affected? Why does inflamma- tion often arise in parts only sympathetically affected, and consequently far removed from the offending cause? Why is inflammation often as apt to spread to neighbouring parts, between which and the part first affected, there is no direct communication of vessels, as to parts in continuation with that part? “ These phenomena, it is evident, (says Dr. Philip) are referrible to the agency of the nervous system, and seem readily explained by the ex- periments, which prove, that the effects of both stimuli and sedatives, acting through this system, are felt by the vessels, and that independently of the intervention of any effect produced on the heart. (Exp. 27, 28.) Thus, the irritation of the nerves of the inflamed part may excite the larger arteries of this part, or of distant parts, or of the whole sanguiferous system. It will of course be most apt to do so, where the irritation excited by the inflammation is greatest, and, consequently in the more important vital parts. It cannot appear surprising, that inflammation should suddenly cease in one part and attack an- other, when we know, that the netves are capable of exciting to due action the capillaries of the one part, and in the other of impairing the vigour of those, which have not suffered. In the same way, we account for parts only sympathetically affected ^becoming inflamed, and for inflammation readily spreading to neighbouring parts, which always sympathize, although there is no direct communi- cation between them, either of vessels, or nerves.” (On the Vital Functions, p. 279, Spc. Ed. 2.) Respecting the inference, made by Dr. Philip from his experiments, that the circulation is slower in inflamed, than uninflamed arteries; Dr. J. Thompson conceives, that its truth “ is not necessary to the establishment of Mr. Allen’s hypothesis; and from a number of experiments which I have at different times made upon frogs, I am inclined to believe, that a diminished velo- city of the blood, in the capillary branches, is by vo means a necessary, constant, nor even the most common (fleet of incipient and mode- rate degrees of inflammation.'' (P- 75.) In order to reconcile this difference in the statements miple by the only two writers, who have examined this subject by experiment, Dr. Hastings repeated their mode of investigation with the aid of the microscope. His conclusions are, “ that certain stimuli, applied to living parts.