I 109 URINARY CALCULI. us. It is evident, that a stone, so situated, would not in general produce a great deal of irritation, nor admit of being felt with a sound ; though, as I have stated in the article Lithotomy, there have been a few exceptions to this observation. Mrs. Steevens first gave calcined egg-shells alone; but, finding costiveness produced, she added soap. In time, she rendered her process more complicated, adding snails burnt to black- ness, a decoction of camomile flowers, parsley, i sweet fennel, and the greater burdock. That, in the lithic acid diathesis, the carbo- nated fixed alkalies, taken in large doses, have the effect of passing into the urine, and saturating the redundant lithic acid in the unhealthy state of that fluid, is a fact decidedly proved. If there were any doubt yet remaining upon this point, it would be immediately removed by the perusal of the case of the celebrated Mascagni as detailed by himself. (See Mem. della Soc. Ital. 1801.) This eminent anatomist being much afflicted with gravel, derived benefit from drink- ing the aqua alcalina mcphitica, or Selzer Water; but, conceiving, that more good might I result from a trial of carbonate of potash, he took I at first half a dram of this substance in the I morning, and as much in the evening, dissolved I in ten ounces of water. The second day, the I dose was augmented to two drams, and on the t: third to three, which quantity, dissolved in 20 • ounces of water, was continued for ten days. Before taking the carbonate of potash (says l 'Mascagni) my urine was very acid, and iinme- f' liately reddened litmus paper: as soon as the ! nedicine was begun, I made the same experi- i nent with the urine then voided, and found the i ntensity of the colour of the paper less. The l ’ccond day, the paper teas very little altered, I tnd, on the third, the urine did not redden it I it all. The acid in my urine, therefore, was I aturated, and, at the same time, the pain in my oins diminished, and no more gravel was voided j vith my urine. Afterwards, the pain ceased en- I irely, the urine became clearer, and I perceived hat it contained an excess of potash.” Being | ittackcd again at a subsequent period with the | ;ravel, Mascagni adopted the same treatment, 9 md experienced equal benefit from it. In the lithic acid diathesis, the caustic alkali, I n the form of the liquor potassa.*, has sometimes i »cen thought to have more efficacy, than the C ; arbonate. Sir E. Home and Mr. Hatchet first suggest- I iid the utility of giving magnesia in cases of j tone; and the proposal was communicated to f he public by Mr. Brande (Phil. Trans. 1810.) Vs Dr. Marcet observes, magnesia is often t "mnd advantageous in long-protracted cases, in ! tdiich the constant use of the subcarbonated, or i : austic alkalies, would injure the stomach. But, Je properly remarks, that, if magnesia is somc- mes beneficial, it has of late years often done arm. For, as this earth is the base of one of ic most common species of calculi, viz. that ontaming the phosphate of ammonia and mag- esia. thereis nearly an even chance, when mag- - esia is prescribed, without any previous know- dgc °1 the nature of the calculus, that it will rove injurious. Magnesia, also, when long and rotusely administered, sometimes forms large masses in the intestinal canal, causing serious distress, and even fatal consequences. According to Dr. Prout, purgatives will sometimes stop calculous depositions, especially in children; and Dr. Henry, of Manchester, has observed, that a quack medicine, composed of turpentine and opium, will occasionally pro- duce a plentiful discharge of lithic acid from the bladder. On the whole, I believe, reason and experience will allow us to consider limewater, soap, acidu- lous soda water, the carbonate of potassa, the liquor potassae, and magnesia, only as palliative remedies, by which the pain of the disorder may sometimes be diminished, and the urinary secre- tion improved, it being more rational to impute the few supposed instances of greater success to the calculi becoming encysted. As medicines, taken into the stomach, will not dissolve urinary calculi, solvent injections have been introduced through a catheter directly into the bladder. Fourcroy and Vauquelin ascer- tained, that a ley of potassa, or soda, not too strong to be swallowed, softens and dissolves small calculi, composed of the uric acid and urate of ammonia, when they are left in the liquid a few days. They proved, that a beverage, merely acidulated with nitric or muriatic acid, dissolves with still greater quickness, calculi, formed of the phosphate of lime, and of the triple phos- phate of ammonia and magnesia. They also as- certained, that calculi, composed of the oxalate of lime, which are the most difficult of solu- tion, may be softened, and almost quite dis- solved, in nitric acid, greatly diluted, provided they are kept in the mixture a sufficient time. Liquids are then known, which will dissolve calculi of various compositions; but, as I have already hinted, much difficulty occurs in employ- ing them effectually in practice. For, although they can be easily injected into the bladder, this organ is so extremely tender and irritable, that the action of such liquids upon it, as would be requisite for dissolving a stone, would produce sufferings, which no man could endure, and the most dangerous and fatal effects on the bladder itself. Another objection to this practice also arises from the surgeon never knowing what the exact composition of a calculus is, before this body is extracted, and his consequent inability to determine what solvent ought to be tried. Until the complete success of lithontriptics is established, therefore, the operation of lithotomy, severe and hazardous as it is, must continue an indispensable practice, wherever the patient’s suf- ferings arc great, and the calculus too large to be voided, or extracted through the urethra. In the early stage, however, before calculi have ex- ceeded a certain size, if they cannot be expelled with the urine, the)- may sometimes be taken out by means of an instrument, invented by Mr. Weiss, of the Strand, shaped like a sound, but the end of which, after its introduction into the bladder, admits of being opened, and made to grasp the calculus, which is then to be drawn through the urethra. The urine is first to be discharged, through a catheter. See an Ac- count of a Cast, in which numerous Calculi, were extracted without cutting Instruments, by