185 ANUS. operations, was prevented. When only the skin has been divided, the rest of the treatment is doubtless more simple; for, then, nothing more is requisite, than keeping a piece of lint, for a few days, in the opening made with the knite. But, when the extremity of the rectum is at a certain distance, though we may generally hope to effect a cure,, after having succeeded in living vent to the intestinal matter; yet the Treatment, after the operation, will always de- mand for a long while a great deal of attention and care on the part of the surgeon. The difficulty of success may be considered as, in some measure, proportioned to the depth of the necessary incision. In a case, like that recorded by Dr. Palmer, to which I have above adverted, die inutility of any attempt to discharge the feces by an operation, in the usual site of the anus, must be sufficiently obvious. (Medico- Chir. Journ. 1 «>■'. I, t>. 181). Sometimes, while the anus appears pervious and well-formed, infants suffer the same symp- toms, as if there were no anus at all. The reason of this depends upon the intestine being occasionally closed by a membranous partition, situated more or less upward, above the aperture of the anus. (C-wrtud, No uveites Obs. sur les Os, p. 147), and, sometimes the symptoms are owing to the termination of the gut in a cul-de- sac. "This erroneous formation may always be suspected, when an infant, whose anus is ex- ternally open, does not void any excrement, for two or three days after its birth, and, espe- cially, when urgent symptoms arise, such as swelling of the belly, vomiting, &c. We are now to endeavour to ascertain, whether the rec- tum is impervious above the anus, by attempting to inject glysters, or to introduce a probe. If the gut be shut up, there is nothing to be done, but having recourse to the method described above, and forming a communication by means of a bistoury guided on the finger, or else with a pharyngotomus. If the obstacle should only consist of a transverse membrane, the operation will be easy, and its success almost certain. But, if there should be a strangulation, or obstruction of the intestine, the case is infinitely more serious. However, as the operation is the only resource for saving the child’s life, we ought not to hesi- tate about performing it. When the anus is imperforatCj the intestine sometimes opens into the vagina, or bladder. ( Dmnus in Rfcueil Periodique dt la Sue. dc Med, T. 3, N. 13. UEveilU Rapport des Travnux dt la Hoc Phihm. Vol. 1. p. 145. Murray l)i s. Aircsis uni vcsicnlis, Ups, 1794 /let. Nut. Cur. Vul. 8, Ohs. 24, IV. 9, Obs. 11, Roestrl in Mursinna s Jtmni. fiir die Chir. 1 11 p. 547. Ohs. Med. Decnd. 2, Nr. 2.) The first of these cases is the least dangerous of all the malforma- tions of this sort. The intestine may' also open and terminate at two places, at the same time, viz. at the usual place, so as to form a proper anus, more or less perfect; and also in the vagina. If these two openings should be ample enough, for the easy evacuation of the excrement, nothing can be done at so tender an age; for, though voiding the feces through the vagina, is a most unpleasant inconvenience, yet, there is no effectual means of closing the opening of the intestine in this situation, nor could one be de- vised, which would not seriously incommode the infant. But, when the two openings are exceedingly small, and the alvine evacuations cannot readily pass out, even with the aid of glysters, the opening of the anus ought to be dilated by can- nulas of different sizes. If this method should not avail, the knife must be employed, and the wound dressed, as already explained. For the most part, the intestine has only one opening in the vagina. In this circumstance, as in the instance in which the feces have no vent at all, we must make an incision in that place, which the anus ought to occupy. The natural course of the feces being opened by this opera- tion, which in such a case is not at all perilous, much less excrement will pass out of the vagina and, of course, the infirmity will be diminished. By the introduction of a tube into the new anus, the communication between the rectum and vagina, might possibly be obliterated, and a perfect cure accomplished. The opening be- tween the intestine and vagina, may, also, be too small for the easy evacuation of the feces, and even expose the infant to the same sort of dangerous symptoms, as it would be subject to, if the rectum had positively no opening at all. In male infants, the rectum sometimes opens into the bladder, and, in this circumstance, there is generally no anus. The case is easily l^nown by the meconium being blended with the urine, which acquires a thick greenish appearance, and is voided almost continually, though in small quantities. Only the most fluid part of the me- conium is thus discharged. The*thicker part not getting from the rectum into the bladder, nor from the bladder into the urethra, greatly distends the intestines and bladder, and produces the same symptoms, as take place, in cases of total imperforation. Hence, without the speedy interference of art to form an anus, capable of giving vent to the feces, with which the urinary organs cannot remain obstructed, the infant will inevitably die. This case must, therefore, be treated like the foregoing examples. Though we can hardly hope to prevent altogether the incon- veniences, resulting from the rectum opening into the bladder, since even a new passage will not completely hinder the feces from following the other course; yet we shall thus afford the child a very good chance of preservation, and the only one which its situation will allow. In cases, in which we cannot procure an out- let for the feces, by any of the methods pointed out above, it has been proposed by M. Littre, to make an opening above one of the groins, find out a portion of intestine, open it, fix it in this situation with a few stitches, and thus form an artificial anus. M. Sabatier was only acquainted with one case, in which this proceeding had been actually done, viz. the example, where M. Duret, a French naval surgeon, operated, 'llus gentleman cut into the abdomen at the lower part of the left iliac region, and, having opened the sigmoid flexure of the colon, he fixed it near the wound. The child was saved by the forma- tion of an artificial anus; but at the nge of