246 BRONCHOTOMY. head should have been turned downward, in order to keep the blood from 1 lowing backward into the trachea. It is asserted, that the opening of this tube was not always opposite the external wound, in consequence ol the convulsive ^action of the muscles, and that the patient on this account could hardly breathe. Hence, Vigili was induced to slit open the trachea, down to the sixth cartila- ginous ring ; and it was only then that he inclined the patient’s head forward. The bleeding now ceased, the patient breathed with ease, and, on the second day, the inflammation was so much better, that respiration went on without the aid of the opening in the trachea. In order to obviate the preceding accident, a proposal has been made to adapt a cutting blade to a cannula, of a suitable size, calculated for re- maining in the wound, and sufficiently compress- ing the orifices of such vessels as may be opened. In Richter’s Obaervutumes Cidrurgiccc, a descrip- tion of some instruments of this kind may be seen. Mr, B. Bell has described one, somewhat like a flattened trocar, only not quite so long. The patient’s head being inclined backward, as far as possible, the point of the instrument is to be introduced between two of the cartilages : be- tween the lower margin of the thyroid, and the upper edge of the cricoid, is said to be the best situation, being more extensive, less vascular, and, after the division of the skin, only the crico-thyroid ligament requires to be divided. When the instrument has entered, the lancet is to be withdrawn, and the cannula fixed, by means of a ribbon, which is tied to each of the wings of the instrument, and must be fastened at the back of the patient’s neck. Should the instrument be too long, it must be passed through two or three little compresses, before being put into the wind- pipe, which artifice will make it answer as well as if it were shorter. A piece of gauze is then to be tied over the orifice of the cannula. A more simple and natural mode, however, of obviating all trouble from the entrance of blood into the trachea, is to tie any bleeding branch of the thyroid artery, or vein, before the windpipe is opened. Sometimes, though very seldom, the cannula becomes obstructed with mucus, or clots of blood. Such an accident nearly suffocated a patient at Edinburgh. An ingenious person happening to be at hand, suggested the introduction of a second cannula into the first; the second one being taken out, and cleaned, as often as necessary, and then replaced. The use of the cannula must be continued as long as the causes, obstructing respiration, re- main. Thus, in one very interesting case of cynanche, detailed in a modern, publication, the patient, thirteen months after the operation, had not been able to discontinue the tube. (See Med. Chir. Journ. Vol. 5, p. 7.) This example was attended in its progress with a singular cir- cumstance, viz. the expulsion through the can- nula of several portions of calcareous matter, or bone. When respiration is suspended by the presence of a foreign body in the trachea, and the extrane- ous substance does not make its appearance at the opening, a trial may be made to discover its situation by means of a bent probe. When it lies downward, which it hardly ever does, the wound in the trachea may be enlarged in this direction, and the body extracted with a pair of curved forceps. The extraneous substance is mostly forced out by the air, as soon as the incision in the trachea is opened. When it can- not be immediately found, some practitioners (Heister and Raw) have succeeded by keeping the lips of the wound asunder with a leaden cannula, by which means, the force of the air in expiration has, in a few hours, expelled the foreign body. Richter gave the preference to a curved can- nula; and since his time many surgeons have chosen to use such an instrument, though if it be double, the inner tube cannot be so easily intro- duced as that of a straight cannula, and, no doubt, the chief disadvantage of the latter has often proceeded from its having been made of too great length. In some instances, like that referred to above, a cannula has been borne quietly in the trachea, while in others, it has produced so much irrita- tion, cough, and sense of choking, as to render its immediate removal necessary'. Mr. Lawrence, in speaking of the obstruction of the glottis from the disease already adverted to in this article, ob- serves, that, when the cannula causes inconveni- ence, he should advise a longitudinal incision, of about half an inch, in the middle of the trachea, and tho removal of a thin slip of the tube, which would leave an artificia opening for respiration equal in size to the natural one. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vnl. 6, p. 240.) On the continent, the operation of laryngoto- my, which was first advised, by Vicq d’Azyr, 1 and was recommended by Desault, is frequently' preferred to tracheotomy'. The surgeon makes an incision over the anterior part of the thyroid car- | tilage, punctures the crico-thy'roid membrane, and, if it be necessary', introduces a director, and slits the thyroid cartilage upwards. A single j opening in the crico-thyroid membrane, would suffice for the introduction of a cannula for the purpose of enabling the patient to breathe; but for the extraction of foreign bodies, it would be necessary also to cut the thyroid cartilage. The fact, that extraneous substances, when they are loose, are almost always lodged at the upper part of the larynx, proves, that laryngotomy, in such cases, must commonly be most advantageous; and, according to Desault, even when the foreign bodies are lower down in the trachea, they may in general be most easily extracted with the aid of a pair of curved forceps. In this country', laryn- gotomy has been less commonly practised, though commended a few years since, by Mr. Coleman, and more recently by Mr. C. Bell. “ Of the three situations (say's Mr. Lawrence,) in which it has been proposed to make the open- ing, viz. in the thy’roid cartilage, between that and the cricoid, or in the trachea, I consider the first as the least eligible. Besides the objections from the ossification of the cartilage, and the danger of wounding, or otherwise injuring, the chordae vocales, there is the inconvenience in the case of angina laryngea, arising from the swoln and thickened state of the membrane, which may actually impede the passage of the air. I am not aware of any objection to a transverse open- ing between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The prominence of the former in the neck, serves as a guide to the part, which should be opened. Whether bronchotomy, or laryngotomy, ought to