ANEURISM. 128 Whenever the treatment by pressure is at- tempted, the plan should be assisted with res- peated bleedings, spare diet, and perfect quietude in bed. Digitalis has also been sometimes pre- scribed, with the view of lessening the impetus of the circulation. It is likewise a favourite plan with some practitioners, to apply snow, or pow- dered ice to the tumor, as I shall notice in de- scribing Valsalva’s treatment of aortic aneurisms. These last applications have been employed for the purpose of promoting the coagulation of the blood within the aneurismal sac, and the con- sequent obliteration of the cavity of the aneurism and the artery. Various examples, in which it has been thought to have produced a cure, are recorded by Guerin. (Pecueit Period. de la Sac. (It Santd iIt Pari', No. 3. Pell elan Clinique Chir. and Riht', Bulletins de la Farulte (It Med. de Paris, 18 J 7. No. i. and 2. p. 284.) The employment of ice, however, is not considered proper in every case. Breschet says, that, when the swelling is large, the parts very tense, their texture changed, and the skin thin, the practice is likely to accelerate the formation of a slough ; and he confirms a remark made by Mr. Hodgson, that some patients cannot continue this treat- ment longer than a few minutes, while others find it absolutely insupportable. (Fr. Trunsl.of Mr. Hodgson's Wars, r. I. p. 212—229.) The grand means, most to be depended upon, for curing aneurisms, is tying the artery above the tumor. This more certainly preventsthe great ingress of blood into the sac, and, what is more important, more certainly excites the adhesive inflammation within the tied part of the vessel, and, by holding the opposite sides of it steadily in con- tact. brings about their union, and an obliteration of the tube of the vessel, with tolerable regularity. The chief current of blood into the sac is thus stopped, the contents of the aneurism are after- wards gradually absorbed, and the tumor dwindles away in proportion. The natural course of the blood being now permanently interrupted in the arterial trunk, it passes more copiously into the collateral branches, and these enlarging and anas- tomosing with others, which originate from the large arteries beyond the obstruction, the neces- sary circulation is carried on. (See Anastomosis and Indscuhition.) The ligature of the superficial femoral artery, may be performed with the same confidence of success, as the ligature of the brachial artery, that is, without any fear i f destroying the cir- culation, or depriving the subjacent limb of its vitality. Indeed, the numerous and con- spicuous anastomoses, which are met with all round the knee, correspond exactly with those which are observed round the elbow, and at the bend of the arm. This is not a peculiarity of the arteries of the extremities, but it is a general rule which nature has followed in the distribution of all the arteries, that the superior trunks com- municate with the inferior, by means of the lateral vessels. After the principal trunk of an artery is tied, its lateral branches not only carry on the circulation in the parts below the ligature, but do so with greater quickness and activity than they did previously, while the course of the blood was unimpeded through the principal trunk. This evidently arises from the increased determination of blood into the lateral vessels, as well ns from the enlargement of the diameter of these vessels. After the amputation of the thigh, while the blood flows in a full stream from the superficial femoral artery, very little or no blood is poured out of the lateral vessels; but as soon as that artery is tied, the blood issues with impetuosity from the small arteries, which run along, within the vasti and crurajus muscles; and on these smaller arteries being also tied, the blood imme- diately oozes out from the minute arterial vessels of the muscles and cellular membrane. When the principal trunk of an artery is tied, its lateral branches gradually acquire a much larger diame- ter. After amputation of the thigh, on account of a popliteal aneurism, the size and situation of which could not fail materially to impede the course of the blood through the trunk of the femoral artery, it has been often remarked, that, although both the trunk and the greater and smaller branches had been tied with the greatest accuracy, the patients have been in danger of losing their lives, on account of the repeated copious hemorrhages from the innumerable small lateral vessels that had become unusually en- larged. In several cases, during the treatment, and especially after the radical cure, of popliteal aneurism, by tying the superficial femoral arterv, in the upper third of the thigh, all the ramifica- tions of the recurrent popliteal arteries have been felt beating strongly round the knee. We have already noticed, that Boyer found, in a man who some years previously had been operated on for a popliteal aneurism, but had afterwards died from a caries of the tibia, that an arterial branch, which runs in the substance of the sciatic nerve, was di- lated so much, as to be equal in diameter to the radial artery. White, in dissecting the arm of a lady, who, fifteen years before, had been operated on for an aneurism in the bend of the arm, found the brachial artery obliterated, and converted into a solid cylinder, for three inches below the place of the ligature, and as far as the division into the radial and ulnar arteries ; but the recur- rent radial and ulnar branches had become so much enlarged, that, taken together, they ex- ceeded the size of the brachial artery, above the situation of the ligature. In the dead body it is found, that an anatomical injection will pass more freely from one extremity to the other of an aneurismatie, than of a sound l:mb, and this even when no vessels are visibly enlarged. Although it be self-evident, that the circulation through the collateral vessels ought to be much more easy and quick the lower down the ligature is applied to the principal trunk; yet experience shows, that this difference is not to be estimated very high ; for in cases of popliteal aneurism, ierinu j in tints, the success is the same, whether the femoral artery' be tied very low down, or very high up in the thigh. (Scm-pa.) This facilityof the passage of the blood through the lateral vessels, is not the same in subjects of all ages; and, in the same subject, it is not the same in the inferior, as in the superior extremity. An age under forty-five, and the operation being done on the arm, which is nearer the source of the circulation, than the lower extremity, in- creases the chance of success. However, not- withstanding these are the opinions of Scarpa, and as general ones may not be incorrect, surgeons in England now operate for ancu-