150 ANEURISM. the disease, and that it is this last mode alone, which has gained such approbation, und been attended with unparalleled success. The French surgeons have not practised the Hunterian operation with the same degree of success, with which it is now performed in Eng- land, and, consequently, they very commonly pur- sue the old method of opening the sac, &c. Even Professor Boyer avers his relinquishment of what he calls Anel’s plan. ( Frail# ties Mai. Ch.ir, T. 2. p. 148.) But, we shall not be sur- prised at their ill success, when we hear that they neglect the right principles, on which liga- tures ought to be applied to arteries, as ex- plained by Dr. Jones in his work on hemorrhage. Even Baron Dupuytren adheres to the use of ligatures of reserve; and Boyer applies four loose ligatures round the artery, besides two tight ones; and consequently a large portion of the vessel lies separated from its natural con- nexions, and irritated by these extraneous sub- stances. Hunter’s first operation nearly failed also on account of so many ligatures, none of which were tightened so as to cut through the inner coats of the artery, and thus promote its closure. (See Hemorrhage.) In reference to the operation for popliteal aneurism, RosenmulLev’s Chir. Anal. Platts deserve to be consulted, Part 3, Tab. 8 9. Scarpa’s matchless engravings, and Haller’s leones, should likewise be ex- amined. ANEURISMS OF THE LEG, FOOT, FOREARM AND IIAN D. Doubts were not long ago entertained, re- specting the possibility of curing an aneurism at the upper part of the calf of the leg by tying the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh. ^lush- tuta Ital. di Scienze ed Arn, Vo I. T, Parte 2, p. 266.) The author, here referred to, was led by this uncertainty to have recourse in one instance to the severe method of laying open the tumor, in order to get at the vessel lower down. On this case, Scarpa makes some cor- rect reflections: the operator (says he) assured himself, that, on campressing the femoral artery at the upper part of the thigh, the tumor at the tap »f the calf censed to pulsate; and that, when the compression was continued Jar some time, the swelling partly disappeared, and became softer. It ought to have been evident, therefore, that the aneurism might have been cured by tying the trunk of the femoral artery, as described in the foregoing section. In Scarpa’s work is a case, in which an aneurism at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery was cured by the ligature of tjie femoral artery. (Seep. 451, Ed. 2.) Mr. Hodgson has seen three aneurisms, situated at the commencement of the tibial arteries, cured by the same operation. (On Diseases of Ar- teries, See. p. 487.) But, as Scarpa remarks, though the Hunterian operation answers in the cure of aneurism in the bend ot the arm, and at the upper part of the calf of the leg, it is not so effectual for aneurisms situated on the back or palm of Hie hand, or the dorsum, or sole of the foot. The free communication, which the ulnar and radial arteries keep up with each other in the hand, and the tibial arteries have in the foot, prevent the operation from succeeding, whether the brachial, or femoral artery, or one of the two large arteries of the forearm, or leg, be tied. In proof of this statement Scarpa cites two cases of aneurism seen by himself; one on the instep; the other in the sole of the foot; and a third case of the same disease in the latter situation; all of which were found to be incurable by the ligature of the anterior tibial artery. (P.311.) He thinks, however, that the operation of tying this vessel where it passes over the dorsum of the foot, might succeed, if aided by compression, applied so as to stop the current through the other main channel; and he seems to approve of this practice, be- cause the plan of tying the artery above and below the disease (which is the most certain means of cure) could not be done, without ex- tensive incisions in the sole of the foot. In an aneurism at the lower part of the leg, Mr. Hodgson judiciously insists upon the prudence of tying the artery, as near as possible to the tumor, because the recurrent circulation, through the large inosculations in the foot, might still cause the swelling to enlarge, in consequence of the blood sent into the sac from the lower extremity of the vessel, passing through the aneuristnal cavity into branches arising from the artery between the aneurism and the ligature. (P. 438.) In the same manner, when an aneurism arises from the radial, ulnar, or in- terrosseous arteries near the elbow, tying the brachial will suffice; but, if the disease be lower down, the vessel from which it proceeds must be taken up near the swelling. (Op. cit. p. 393.) Scarpa mentions a case, where the dorsal artery of the thumb was wounded; but, as the hemor- rhage returned several times, and pressure failed in suppressing it, the surgeon took up the radial artery at the wrist. After cutting off this direct current of blood towards the injured vessel, pressure on the wound proved effectual. Three months afterwards, the patient having died, tire radial artery was found impervious for three fingers’ breadth below where the ligature had been applied, and the dorsal artery was likewise obliterated from the root of the thumb to the beginning of the palmar arch. The manner of exposing, and tying, the prin- cipal arteries of the leg and forearm will be described under the term, Arteries. OF ANEURISMS HIGH UP THE FEMORAL ARTERT. Several facts, already specified in the pre- ceding columns as having occurred many years befor# the operation of tying the external iliac artery was attempted, amounted to a full proof, that the circulation might go on in the lower extremity, notwithstanding the artery in the groin were tied, or obliterated. On this point, some of Guattani’s cases were most decisive. The ligature of the external iliac arterv, for aneurisms of the femoral artery in the bend of the groin, has now been practised so frequently, and the instances of success are so numerous, that till doubt concerning the propriety and utility of the attempt has entirely ceased. The French, who have evinced great backwardness in espousing the Hunterian method of operating