necrosis. S47 ampbor? Neutral Salts? Issues? (Vid. Wris- ■rg\ Comment. Sue. Reg. Gott. Vol. 9, p. 36, 1789.) He a(Ws, tli:U> Perhups, many va- labie discoveries will hereafter be made on this rl'he reasons already detailed, and a variety of riments successfully made bv Weidmann, ad him to set it down as an established prin- ple, that the separation of a necrosis is almost ,tirelv the work of nature, and that surgery ;n do" very little in the business. Ignorance of this important fact paved the way j the wrong practice of making incisions, for ie purpose of exposing the whole surface of a ecrosis, immediately the existence of the dis- rder was known. As such incisions very soon .osed up again, so as to leave only a small out- •t for the matter, they were in many cases re- eatedly practised before the dead bone became lose. The avowed design of the incisions was to rake room for the topical remedies, which were r3 render the exfoliation quicker; but, as these emedies possess no real efficacy, it follows, that aaking incisions, before the dead bone is loose, nly torments the patient, without producing the ;ast benefit. The orifices cf the ulcers, then, which allow he discharge to escape freely, are, says Weid- aann, sufficient as long as the fragments of one are not entirely detached, and the surgeon hould all this period abstain from the use of the t nife. Although Weidmann condemns every mode of •eatment, which is inefficacious, painful, and sometimes even hurtful, he would not have it upposed, that he altogether rejects all assistance rom medicine. On the contrary, he approves f all those means, which are consistent with the lews of nature, which really assist her, and do :iot tease the patient to no purpose. In short, ays he, the indications are limited to removing he original cause of the disease ; to alleviating i he symptoms; to supporting the patient's trength, and improving the state of the consti- ution, in whatever respect it may be bad ; and, astly. removing the dead portions of bone, vhen they become loose. Above all things (continues this sensible prac- itioner) the surgeon must not regard every liece of exposed bone, as necessarily affected vith necrosis, and, in consequence of such idea, iave recourse to acrid, drying, caustic applica- ions. Such means are not only useless, but bsolutely pernicious; because they may actually ause a necrosis, which did not exist, before they vere used, and which would not have taken place t all, if only mild simple dressings had been mployed. When the disease presents itself with violent •ymptoms, the inflammation and fever being in- ense, the severity of the case is to be assuaged >y low diet, antiphlogistic remedies, emollient ipplications, and venesection in moderation, the lisease being one which is of long duration, and •pt to wear out the patient’s strength. Here, >erhaps, topical bleeding ought always to be ^referred to venesection. When the necrosis ias arisen from syphilis, scrophula, or scurvy, kc. the medicines, calculated for the cure of these affections, must be exhibited, ere any fa- vourable changes can be expected in the state of the diseased bone. Lastly, it is the duty of the practitioner to ex- tract the fragments of dead bone, in order that the deficiencies produced by them may be filled up, and the ulcers of the soft parts heal. Nature, who succeeds by herself in detaching the dead pieces of bone, can do very little in pro- moting their passage outward. Frequently, in- deed, she has no power at all in this process, and it is only from surgery that assistance can be derived. When a dead piece of bone is still adherent at some points, its extraction should be postponed, until it has become completely loose. If it were forcibly pulled away, there would be danger of leaving a part of it behind, which must have titpe to separate, ere the cure can be ac- complished. But, when a fragment is entirely detached, and the orifices of the sores are sufficiently large, it is to be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and extracted. When the ulcer has only a very narrow open- ing, suitable incisions must be practised, in order to facilitate the removal of the loose dead bone. Sometimes, the dead fragment protrudes from the ulcer, and projects externally, so that, if loose, it admits of being taken hold of with the fingers and removed. In this way, Weidmann took away a large dead piece of the humerus, which protruded nearly two inches out of an ulcer in the middle of the arm. The patient was a young lad, 14 years of age ; and the limb con- cave within, convex externally, thicker, and one inch shorter than its fellow. He got quite well three weeks after the removal of the dead bone. We have already adverted to the example, re- corded by Weidmann, in which a shoemaker re- moved by himself nearly the whole body of the tibia. Doubtless, the projection of the bone, and its looseness, enabled the man to do this easily with his fingers. But, there are cases, which present more difficulty: such are those, in which the sequestrum is included in a cavity, either of the original, or new bone. The old surgeons were in the habit of ampu- tating limbs, which were in this state; although instances were not wanting in their days to prove the possibility of relieving the disease, without amputation. This blamable custom of remov- ing every limb, thus affected, is justly exploded from modern surgery. Albucasis was the first, who attempted to cure such a case of necrosis, by the judicious employment of the knife and saw. (Lib. 2, cap. 88.) The same kind of practice was successfully adopted in two instances by the celebrated Scultetus. (See Armament. Chirurg. Tab. 46, and Obs. 81.) This com- mendable method, however, afterwards fell into disuse, until M. David, by twenty examples ol success, refuted all the objections which had been urged against it. (F. 197-) Since the period of this distinguished author, the practice has been imitated by all enlightened surgeons, so that the case is no longer regarded, as u disease necessarily requiring amputation. M. Bousselin has cut out the sequestrum eight