405 ECCIIYMOSIS. our power to determine what is truly the re- gular structure of each part, we should then be furnished with a means of judging correctly of the anomalies of function, the changes in which would be indicated, quite as clearly, as in the eye, by shades of organization, absolutely in the same way, as we judge of the modifications, which the image of objects must undergo at the bottom of the ocular mirror, by the greater or less con- vexity of the cornea, or lens, or the consistence of the other humours. In the present state of physiological and pathological knowledge of the ear, therefore, llosenthal conceives, that little can be attempted with respect to a scientific classification of these cases of altered, or diminished hearing. As the cavity of the tympanum and its contents are the parts, which have principal influence over the in- tensity of sound, and a great share in thepropaga- tion of articulated sounds, their faulty condition must here be chiefly the subject for consideration. And, amongst their numerous defects, traced by dissection, and already specified in the foregoing columns, Rosenthal particularly calls the at- tention of the reader, 1. To alterations of the membrane of the tympanum, whether proceeding from congenital malformation, or situation, or from thickening, ossification, perforation, or laceration of the same part. 2. The lodgment of some fluid in the cavity of the tympanum, more frequently produced, than is commonly supposed, by obstruction of the Eustachian tube. In most new-born in- fants, Rosenthal has also found the cavity of the tympanum filled with a thick, almost gela- tinous fluid, which for some days is not absorbed, and is probably the cause of the indifference, evinced by new-born children, to sounds, which are even so intense as to be offensive to the ears of an adult. 3. Alterations of the membrane of the fenestra rotunda, such as its imperfect formation, or erroneous situation, its thickened state, &c. But, it is remarked by Rosenthal, that as the difference in the intensity of sound may occasion a modification in the sensations of the ear, the merely conducting parts of the auditory apparatus must not be forgotten, as the external ear and the meatus auditorius externus, which re- gulate the quantity of sonorous waves, which strike the auditory nerve. However, the mal- formations of the meatus and the state of the ceruminous secretion within it, are observed by Kritter and Lentin (Ueher das Schivere Gehoerc, L. 19, Leipz. 1794.) to have more effect on the hearing, than defects of the auricle itself, the whole of which, as we have stated, may be lost without any material deafness being produced. Lastly, Rosenthal calls our attention to the nervous action, or influence, which, whether too much raised, or depressed, may equally render the hearing dull; and some useful information may for the most part be derived from attending to the patient’s general sensibility. (See Journ. Cumplcm. T. 6, p. 21, $r. Duvemcy tie l'Or gone dcl’Ouie, \ '2mo. 1633; P. Kennedy, A Treatise on the Eye, and on some of the Diseases of the. Ear, 8vo. Loud. 1713- A. D. Diencrt, Q/ ceslio, &;c. an absque Membranev Tympani apertura topica injici in concham possint, Paris, 1748. Memoire sur la Theorie des Maladies de TOreille, et sur les moyens que la Chirurgie peat employer pour leur deration, inprixdel’Acad, de Chir. T. l),p. 11 l.tyr. Edit. 12mo. I.D.A rnemann, Bemerkungen idler die Durchborung des Processus Mastoidcus ingewmen Fallen der Taubheit, 8vo,Gutt. 1792. G.Ii.Trampel von den Krunkheiten des Ohres in Acnemunn’s Magazinfur die Wnndarzneiwissenschajl, B. 2, p. 17, cjfc. 8w>. Gott. 1798. Richerand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 135, Sfc. Edit. A. A. Cooper, in the Phil. Trans, far 1802 ; Saunders on the Anatomy and Diseases of the Ear, 1806. Dcsmonceaux, Trait6 ties Maladies des Yeux et des Oreilles, 2 Tom. 8to. Paris, 1806. Lassus, Palhologie Chirurgicale, T. 1, p. 84, Edit. 1809. IV. Wright, An Essay on the Human Ear, i/s Anatomical Structure, and incidental Complaints, 8tw. Jbmd. 1817. Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Oreille, T. 38, 8i>o. Paris, 1819. Rosenthul, Essai d’uve Puthologie de VOrgane de l’ Ouie, in Journ. Complementaire du Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 6, p. 17, 8vo. Paris, 1820. For an account of malformaho is of the organ, see Mechel’s Iiandhvch der Pathol. Anat. B. 1, p. 400, fyc. 8vo. Leipz. 1812.) ECCHYMOSIS. (from exyyw, to pour out) A superficial, soft swelling, attended with a livid or blue colour of the skin, produced by blood ex- travasated in the cellular substance. The causes of eccltymosis are falls, blows, sprains, &c. which occasion a rupture of the small vessels on the surface of the body, and a consequent effusion of blood, even without any external breach of continuity. Eccbymosis is one of the symptoms of a contusion. (See Con- tusion.) A considerable ecchymosis may originate from a very slight bruise, when the ruptured vessels are capable of pouring out a large quantity of blood, and particularly when the parts contain an abundance of loose, cellular substance. In general, ecchymosis does not make its appear- ance immediately alter the blow, or sprain, and sometimes not till several hours after the ap- plication of the violence: at least, it is not till this time that the black, blue, and livid colour of the skin is most conspicuous. A black-eye, which is only an ecchymosis, is always most disfigured six or eight hours after the receipt of the blow. In the article Bleeding, we have noticed how an ecchymosis.may arise from the blood getting out of the vein into the adjacent cellular sub- stance. Common cases of ecchymosis may generally be easily cured, by applying discutient lotions, and administering one or two doses of any mild purgative salt. The best topical applications are vinegar, the lotio muriatis ammoniac; spirit, vin. camph. and the liquor ammon. acet. The object is to avert inllammation, and to promote the absorption of the extravasated fluid. In cases of ecchymosis, I have seen such suc- cess attend the practice of dispersing collections of extravasated blood, by means of absorption, that the plan of evacuating it by an incision, seems to me to be seldom necessary. When an opening is made, and air is admitted, the portion of blood, which cannot be pressed out, soon pu- trefies, and extensive inflammation and suppura- tion, are the too frequent consequences. The quick and powerful action of the absorb- ent vessels in removing extravasations of blood>