* 568 HEAD. tumor of the scalp for the direction of our judg- ment. Our whole attention must be directed to the wound and general symptoms. The edges of the former will digest as well, and look as kindly, for a few days, as if no mischief was done under- neath. But, alter some little space of time, when the patient begins to be restless, and hot, and to complain of pain in the head, these edges will lose their vermilion hue, and become pale and flabby. Instead of matter, they will discharge a thin gleet, and the pericranium will loosen from the skull, to some distance from the said edges. Immediately after this, all the general symptoms are increased and exasperated ; and as the in- flammation of the membrane is heightened, or extended, they become daily worse and worse, until a quantity of matter is formed, and col- lected, and brings on that fatal period, which,- though uncertain as to date, very seldom fails to arrive. “ The method of attempting the relief of this kind of injury consists in two points, viz. to endeavour to prevent the inflammation of the dura mater; or, that being neglected, or found impracticable, to give discharge to the fluid col- lected within the cranium, in consequence of such inflammation. “ Of all the remedies in the power of art, for inflammations of membranous parts, there is none equal to phlebotomy. To this truth many diseases bear testimony; pleurisies, ophthalmies, strangulated hernias, &c. and if any thing can particularly contribute to the prevention of the ills likely to follow severe contusions of the head, it is this kind of evacuation; but then it must be made use of in such a manner as to become truly a preventive; that is, it must be made use of im- mediately, and freely.” Mr. Pott admits, that it will in general be found very difficult to persuade a person, who has had what may be called only a knock on the pate, to submit to such discipline, especially if he finds himself tolerably well: yet, in many in- stances, the timely use, or the neglect of this single remedy, makes all the difference between safety and fatality. “ It may be said, that as the force of the blow, the height of the fall, the weight of the instru- ment, &c. can never precisely, or certainly de- termine the effect, nor inform us, whether mis- chief is done under the bone, or not, a large quantity of blood may be drawn off unnecessarilv, in order to prevent an imaginary evil. This is in some degree true; and if the advice just given was universally followed, many people would be largely bled without necessity; but then, on the other hand,many a very valuable life would be pre- served, which, for want of this kind of assistance, is lost. Nihil interest, presidium an satis la- tum sit, quod unicumist, is an incontested maxim in medicine; and if it be allowed to use such means as may be in themselves hazardous, surely it cagnot be wrong to employ one which is not so; at least, if it be considered in a general sense, whatever it may accidentally prove to some few particular individuals.’ Acceleration, or hardness of pulse, restless- ness, anxiety, and any degree of fever, after a smart blow on the head, are always to he sus- pected and attended to. Immediate, plentiful, arid repeated evacuations by bleeding, have, in many instances, removed these, in persons, to whom, Mr. Pott firmly believes, very terrible mischief would have happened, had not such pre- caution been used. In this, as well as some other parts of practice, we neither have, nor can have any other method of judging, than by com- paring together cases apparently similar. Mr. Pott has more than once or twice seen that in- creased velocity and hardness of pulse, and that oppressive languor, which most frequently pre- cede mischief under the bone, removed by free and repeated blood-letting ; and has often, much too often, seen cases end fatally, whose begin- nings were full as slight, but in which such evacua- tion had been either neglected, or not complied with. This judicious writer. “ would by no means be thought to infer from hence, that earl)- bleed- ing will always prove a certain preservative; and that they only die, to whom it has not been ap- plied : this, like all other human means, is fallible; and, perhaps, there are more cases out of its reach, than within it: but, where pre- ventive means can take place, this is certainly the best, and the most frequently successful. “ The second intention, viz. the discharge of matter, collected under the cranium, can be answered only by the perforation of it. “ When, from the symptoms and appearances already described, there is just reason for sup- posing matter to be formed under the skuli, the operation of perforation cannot be performed too soon; it seldom happens, that it is done soon enough.” In short, whenever the dura mater, after the head has received external violence, 'separates, or is detached spontaneously from the bone un- derneath it, and such separation is attended with the collection of a small quantity of thin, brown ichor, an alteration of colour in the separated pericranium, unnatural dryness of the bone, chilliness, horripilatio. languor, and some de- gree of fever, Mr. Pott considers the opera- tion indispensably necessary to save the patient s life. “ When the skull has been once perforated, and the dura mater thereby laid bare, the state of the matter must principally determine the sur- geon's future conduct. In some cases, one open- ing will prove sufficient for all necessary pur- poses ; m others, several may be necessary. Notwithstanding the operation of perforation he absolutely and unavoidably necessary, as Mr. Pott remarks, “ the repetition of blood-letting or cooling laxative medicines, the use of anti- phlogistic remedies, and a most strict observance of a low diet and regimen, are as indispensably requisite after such operation as before ; the per- foration sets the membrane freeffrom pressure, and gives vent to collected matter, but nothing more; the inflamed state of the parts under the skull, and all the necessary consequences of such inflammation, call for all our attention, full as much afterwards as before; and although the pa- tient must have perished without the use of the trephine, yet, the merely having used it, will not preserve idm, without every other caution and care.” (Pott.) I think it not improper to recommend again the practice of applying cold wet cloths to the head for the prevention and relief of inflamma- tion of the dura mater; a plan, to which, as