1071' ULCEUS. • ULCERS IK PARTS, WHOSE ACTIONS AllE TOO INDOLENT TO FORM HEALTHY GRANU- LATION'S, WHETHER THIS INDOLENCE ARISES FROM THE STATE OF THE PARTS, OR OF THE CONSTITUTION: THE CALLOUS ULCERS OF SE- VERAL WRITERS. • Such is the next division of ulcers adopted by «• E. Home, in his treatise on the subject. I. ie indolent ulcer forms in its appearance a com- V;te contrast to the irritable one. The edges the surrounding skin are thick, prominent, moth, and rounded. The surface of the gra- lations is smooth and glossy. The pus, in- >nd of being of a perfect kind, is thin and , .tery, being composed of a mixture of pus, d coagulating lymph. The lymph consists of kes, which cannot be easily separated from the rface of the sore. The bottom of the ulcer t -ms quite a level, or nearly so, and, as Sir E. Dine very accurately remarks, the genera! pect conveys an idea, that a portion of the skin d parts underneath has been for some removed, thout the exposed surface having begun any w action to fill up the cavity. When, however, the indolence of the ulcer is t so strongly marked, the sore does not eor- spond to the preceding description, but resem- in appearance the ulcer, which possesses an erior degree of irritability, and can only be ^criminated from it by receiving no benefit :>m smoothing applications. iThe odd circumstance of some indolent sores wing the appearance of irritable ones, is, in me degree, explained by ulcers always being iuenced by changes in the constitution, and •idental circumstances affecting the parts. Most of the ulcers, which are to be seen in the -ndon hospitals, are of the indolent kind. An lolent disposition in the ulcer may proceed alto- ther from the long existence of the disease; d hence, Sir E. Home very justly observes, >s immaterial whether at first it was healthy, ak, or irritable, for, if not cured within a cer- n time, it becomes indolent, with the excep- ti of a few of the irritable kind, which never itige their nature. .Indolent sores do form granulations; but :se, every now and then, are all on a sudden aorbed, and, in the course of four and twenty jrs, the sore becomes as much increased in ee, as it had been diminished in as many days, • weeks. This absorption of the granulations 'ses principally from their not being of a s iltliy kind; but the event is promoted by t mges in the weather, anxiety, fatigue, &c. The object in the treatment of indolent ulcers not simply to produce a cure, but to render fill cure as permanent as possible. This can ly be accomplished by altering the disposition the granulations, and rendering them strong lugh to stand their ground after the ulcer is cd up. When an ulcer, which has existed six months, Iressed with poultices for a week, the granu- ons, at the end of this time, will partly have -d up the hollow of the sore, but they will isent a large, loose, and glossy appearance, ould the poultice be now discontinued, and ne proper stimulating application used for itlier week, the granulations will be found, at the expiration of this time, to have become smaller, more compact, redder, and free from the glossy appearance. The ulcer, when healed by the latter application, will not be so likely to break out again, as when healed with large, loose, flabby, glossy granulations. Sir E. Home states, that the number of indo- lent sores, which heal under the use of stimula- ting applications, and do not break out again, compared with similar cases, treated with mild dressings, are as four to one. Al*PLICATIONS TO INDOLENT ULCERS. 1. Medicines in the form of vapour cannot heal indolent sores, so as to accomplish a lasting cure. It is only when these ulcers assume a foul appearance, and are in a temporary stale of irrita- tion, that such applications can be advantage- ously employed. In general, patients, on their first admission into hospitals with sore legs, have their ulcers in a temporary state of irritation from neglect, ex- ercise, excesses, ike. Hence, it is generally found advantageous, for the first few days, or even a week, to have recourse to poultices and fomentations. I believe, that any common fomentation, whether of chamomile, poppy-heads, or mere warm water, answers equally well. The time for using it is while a fresh poultice is preparing, and this latter application should be changed twice a day. '1. Moist applications, such as poultices, are to be employed when fomentations ore proper, and they may be made of bread, oatmeal, or linseed. Sir E. Home describes a species of indolent ulcers, which occur in patients of debilitated con- stitutions, which put on a sphacelated appearance, without any apparent cause, even after they have made some progress towards a cure, and in this way spread to a very large size. Some’of these ulcers, if judged of from their appearances, would be ranked as irritable ones; but, as sooth- ing applications do not agree with them, they are not to be classed with the latter kind of sores. They are said to occur particularly in seamen, and soldiers, who have been long at sea, and have been termed scorbutic ulcers. Sir E. Home represents them, however, as not being necessarily connected with the scurvy, and being often met with in patients, who have not been on the sea. He states that they are not of ne- cessity joined with any specific disease; but are common to all kinds of patients, whose consti- tutions have been impaired, either by salt pro- visions, warm climates, or drinking. From some trials, first made by Dr. Harness, and afterwards by Sir E. Home, it appears, that these particular ulcers, when in a sphacelated state, are benefited by employing the gastric juice of ruminating animals, as an external ap- plication. It makes the sloughs fall off, and the sore assume a better appearance. Some pain follows on its being first applied, and it is to be regarded as a stimulating application. Sir E. Home mentions, that in the West Indies, such ulcers are advantageously dressed with the fresh root of the cassada, grated into it pulp. Lync-juice has also been found a useful