PUPIL. U53 mil left the pupil very nearly of its natural size, (ts shape was not quite round; but, the sight ras immediately restored, and to so great a de- .ree, as to enable the patient, by the help of .uitable convex glasses, to see distinctly both ear and distant objects, neither pain nor inflam- mation being consequent to the operation.” Where there is a prolapsus of the iris, through t breach of the cornea, involving more or less of he pupillary margin, Mr. Travers considers Dheselden’s method the most applicable; “ viz. he transverse division of the stretched fibres of he iris, and which, if the section be made in 'rant of the membrane, i. e. from before back- yards, admits of no improvement. The edges jf the section instantly recede and form an ex- cellent pupil.” However, he afterwards adds, ‘ that a partial adhesion of the pupillary margin nay be combined with a healthy lens It) this ease, the removal of the free border of the pupil, Irawn by means of forceps, through an incision n the cornea, will be preferable, on account of ^reserving the transparency of the lens.” (Sy- upsis of the Discuses of the Eye, p. 343.) In a modern work. Professor Maunoir of Ge- neva, has published a very successful case, in vhich an artificial pupil was.formed, and a case- tus cataract extracted. “ I operated, (says M. Maunoir) on the right eyeiri the followingman- ner. The patient being seated on a chair, and taving the head inclined upon a cushion, I placed ■ nyself behind him, and with the fore-finger of .be left hand, confining the upper eyelid, whilst n assistant depressed the lower, I made with he right hand a semicircular incision in the lower and external part of the cornea. This in- csion occupied a full third of the circumference i if the membrane. On re-opening the eye, the ris was seen projecting a little from the wound n the cornea. I replaced it with the blunt point >f my scissors. Introducing the two blades dosed into the anterior chamber, and then open- ng them, I caused the pointed blade to penetrate he iris, leaving the blunt blade between that membrane and the cornea; then closing the tcissars, a perpendicular incision of the iris re- ulted, describing a little more than half the chord d an arc of two-fifths of the circumference of the ris, traced on the side of the temple. The first ncision not having occasioned the formation of i pupil of the necessary size, 1 introduced the icissars into the iris a second time a little ob- iquely; and immediately the pupil appeared of i satisfactory form and size, hut exhibiting the ■rystalline entirely opaque. The second stroke >1 the scissars had divided the capsula: I tliere- ore introduced a small curette, in order to en- ■eavour to destroy what ddhered of the crystal- me to the shrunk and contracted circumference >t the old pupil. This attempt did not succeed. Lastly, I effected th e passage of a portion of the ipaque lens, by means of a slight pressure with i large scoop, exercised on the lower part of the 'lube ot the eye. The crystalline, which was of i cheesy consistence, came out with the greatest ase, and though it was not entirely removed, >et a sufficient quantity was discharged to leave he artificial pupil of a most perfect black. This lew pupil was on the side of the temple ; and at he exterior and lower part of the iris.” ^Sec Mid. Cltir. Trunt, Vot. 7, p. .’{05, vt set/.) In this communication are also two other cases, in which Professor Maunoir operated, with success, though complicated with cataracts, and adhesions ol the lens to the iris. In some remarks annexed by Professor Scarpa to tlie preceding account, the latter expresses his opinion, that it is not ne- cessary to be scrupulous, whether the crystalline be partly, or entirely opaque, whenever the cap- sule is opaque, and adheres to the iris, behind the edge of the interior and inclosed pupil. “ In this case only one remedy can be pointed out, namely, the removal of the opaque adherent cap- sule, and consequently of the crystalline, whether it be transparent, or opaque. In the second place, (says Scarpa) I think there is no reason to doubt, that, in similar cases, it is advisable to make an incision upon the iris, proportioned to the size of the body to be extracted, rather than to make it small, which obliges the operator to divide the crystalline and the capsule, with the intention of extracting a part, and of abandoning the rest to the powers of absorption. Thirdly; I would establish as a fundamental principle, in similar cases, that, after the complete extraction of the crystalline, with its opaque capsule, by means of the least possible introduction of the instruments, the artificial pupil ought not to be too near the incision in the cornea, arid consequently not too near the cicatrix occasioned by it.” (P. 317.) Scarpa then recommends a particular method of operating, in cases where there are cataracts: after having made, in the manner of Wenzel, a transverse incision in the iris, and in the cornea, he would introduce Maunoir’s scissars, blunted at both points, into the anterior chamber of the aqueous humour, and make an incision in the iris, diverging from the cut made with the knife. The aperture thus made, Scarpa thinks would be large enough to allow easy egress to the opaque lens. Amongst other late opinions, professed by this distinguished surgeon, we find the following: that no instrument is so proper as the scissars for making an incision in the iris; that, when the case is not complicated by cataract, a very small wound in the cornea is sufficient; that the for- mation of a triangular edge in the iris, by means of a double incision with the scissars, is the most easy and least painful of all the methods hitherto proposed for obtaining a permanent artificial pu- pil; and, lastly, that spots of the cornea present no obstacle, because it is possible to produce the artificial pupil opposite the transparent part of that membrane. (Med. Cldr. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 320, As I have already noticed, the contraction of the natural pupil is sometimes occasioned by the iris being stretched towards some point of the cornea, to which it is adherent. This state, as Scarpa observes, is most frequently accompanied with partial opacity of the cornea, around the ad- hesion, or prolapsus of the iris, as well as with opacity of the lens and its capsule. At other times, however, these internal parts preserve their natural transparency, notwithstanding the deviation of the natural pupil. In tiie latter case, the pupil, though removed from its situa- tion, is not in reality obliterated, but merely very much contracted, and incapable of admitting the quantity of light necessary for vision, especially, if the opposite part of the cornea be slightly