GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. interfering with those which are deeply and firmly lodged in the wound. He should await suppura- tion, and the detachment of sloughs, and when the foreign bodies become moveable and apparent, he should extract them, with or without an in- cision, as circumstances may demand. The ex- amination of the wound ought to be made as much as possible with the finger, which irritates less, and feels more distinctly, than a probe. A great variety of instruments have been devised, either for ascertaining the position of balls, and other foreign bodies in gun-shot wounds, or for extracting them. But, however numerous and diversified bullet-drawers may be, they all admit of being divided into three kinds. The first are constructed on the principle of a pair of forceps. Others are shaped more or less like spoons. And a third description are made on the plan of a cork-screw or worm. These last are only de- signed for cases, in which the ball is fixed in the substance of a bone, and is quite immoveable; for, if it were lodged in the soft parts, the pres- sure, requisite for introducing the screw into it, would injure and lacerate the parts at the bottom of the wound. Bullet-drawers, constructed on the plan of forceps, have the inconvenience of not being adapted for seizing the ball, unless their blades are expanded, which always stretches the wound, and creates a great deal of irritation. Forceps have been contrived with blades, which may be introduced separately, and then joined together with a screw. When a ball lies super- ficially, the fingers, or a small pair of forceps, will extract it most conveniently. And, with re- spect to bullet-extractors, as Dr. Hennen has justly observed, they are completely superseded by the common forceps, or that of Baron Percy, though unfortunately the aid of instruments is most required in tortuous deep passages, where we can least make use of them. (Principles of Military Surgery, p. 76, Ed. 2.) The event of the treatment above recom- mended, is various. Extraneous substances re- maining in the wound, either loosen gradually, and come into view so as to be easily remove- able ; or they continue concealed, prevent the cure, and give birth to a fistulous ulcer. In some instances, the w'ound closes, and the foreign bodies remain in the limb during life, without in- convenience; and, in other cases, after a time, they bring on a renewal of inflammation and suppuration. Sometimes a foreign body varies its situation, sinking down, and afterwards ma- king its appearance at a different part, where it may excite inflammation and suppuration. When the ball lodges in the wound, it is usu- ally difficult to trace it, as the parts collapse after its passage, and leave an opening in the skin much smaller than the ball itsfelf. The ball does not regularly take a straight direction through the injured part, but, often, a very tortuous one, particularly when the ball is nearly spent. In every case, in which it is not easily discoverable, all painful examinations should be abandoned, and the foreign body left in its situation, until its place is better known, and the first inflamma- tion is over. Sometimes, the ball may be both easily found and extracted. At other times, it lodges on the opposite side of the limb, closely under the skin. According to Mr. Hunter, if the integuments, under which the ball is lodged, should be so con- tused that they will probably slough, they are to be considered as already dead, and an opening is to be made in them for the extraction of the ball. But, when the ball lies so remotely from the skin that it can only just be felt, and the skin itself is quite uninjured, no counter-opening ought to be made. The wound heals better when the ball is left in, and far less inflammation takes place in the vicinity of this extraneous body, than about the orifice of the wound. A counter-opening always renders the inflammation at the bottom of the wound, as great as at its . orifice. It is better to let the wound heal up, and extract the ball afterwards. (See Hunter, p. 541.) To the justness of this advice, Mr. Guthrie does not assent, who assures us, that he has cut ;i out a great number of balls, which were not j more than an inch from the surface, and never found any inconvenience ensue. But, when the ball lies three or four inches from the surface, and cannot be distinctly felt, bethinks, that no I incision should at first be made with the view of extracting it. (On Gun-shut Wounds, p. 94— 95, Ed. 2.) Sometimes, the ball penetrates the spongy part I of a bone, and lodges firmly in it. When it has l only entered superficially, it may sometimes be 1 loosened and extracted, by means of an elevator I with a thin and somewhat curved extremity, and I when it is more firmly fixed, a screw bullet- f drawer will sometimes serve for its removal, j Should the attempt fail, the employment of a i trepan for the removal of the ball is recommended j by some writers; while others, fearful of the irritation, difficulty, and effects of such an ope- j ration, and recollecting that balls have sometimes I remained fixed in bones for many years, without I any serious inconvenience, condemn that prac- I tice. On the contrary, Mr. Guthrie lays it down l as a general rule, subject to a few exceptions, that a ball should never be allowed to remain in j a bone; for, says he, “ if a ball lodge in the | head of a bone, and is not removed, it generally j causes caries of the bone, disease of the joint, amputation, or death. If in the shaft of a long | bone, necrosis for the most part follows, with j months and years of misery. On a flat bone, I caries is equally the result, and, if it be sur- I rounded by large muscles, sinuses form in va- t rious directions, contractions of the limb take I place, and the patient drags on for years, careless | of life, and ready to submit to any thing to obtain i relief.” (On Gun-sliot Wounds, p. 91—93, I Ed. 2.) In many of these cases, one thing de- serves to be recollected, however, that the necrc- t sis, abscesses, and sinuses are less the effect of the lodgment of the ball, than of the violence i originally committed on the parts, against which it has struck. Although Baron Larrey only sanctions the attempt to remove balls with a trephine, when they actually produce danger- i ous effects,) Mem. dc Chir. Mi!. T. 4, p. j 185,) I am disposed to believe, that whenever the p situation of the ball is such, that it can be re- ■ moved at once from a bone with tolerable cer- i tainty, and without too much irritation, the prac- j tice is commendable. This branch of the treat- > ment of gun-shot wounds appears to me still to i require further elucidation, for though experience j