iismt-euH **-**—■** ■' *«P- HYDROPHOBIA. 679 pears from facts, referred to, that the dread of liquids does not depend upon the pain, which the patient has already suffered from his attempts to drink as it sometimes occurs before any such attempt has been actually made. (Vol. cit. p. SO.) An inclination to bite has been noticed, as happening in the patient, whose case is recorded by Dr. Powell. Yet, this disposition is far from being usual; and it never presented itself in any of the cases, which fell under the observation of the author of the article rage in the foregoing publication, or P. Desault, Duchoisel, Dr. J. Vaughan, Sabatier, Dupuytren, &c. And, even when the patient’s imagination is so disordered, that he cannot help biting, he commonly warns the bystanders to avoid the danger. The frothy slaver, which is voided with considerable and re- peated efforts, is a symptom, which is said not to commence before the respiration begins to be con- vulsive. As the disease advances, there is no remission of the sputation, necessary to clear the throat of this viscous secretion ; and, at the approach of death, when it cannot be expelled, it collects in the mouth, and covers the patient’s lips. The symptoms of what is termed cerebral ex- citement become stronger and more marked in the second stage of the disease. The eyes, the brightness of which is still further increased, ap- pear, as it were, inflamed; the patient never shuts them again; and, as the daylight and brilliant colours are offensive, be prefers dark- ness. The hearing becomes very acute, and as well as the sight, is troubled with hallucinations. The toucli is extremely fine; the speech abrupt and rapid; and the conversation energetic, and often expressive of the most touching sentiments. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 12.) Dr. Marshall made a very just distinction, between the real convulsions which came on to- wards the termination of the case in death, and the strong sudden action of the muscles, excited in the course of the disorder by the light, the sight of liquids, and the feel of the air. (The Morbid Anatomy of the Brain, S(c. p. 88.) Convulsions and hiccough, in fact, are the symptoms of dis- solution. Delirium is far from being a constant sym- ptom,' and only happens the last day of the dis- order. Neither'is it always without remissions; for the patients, aflected with it, sometimes give rational replies. Every case upon record, where delirium is described as being one of the first symptoms, or as coming on with the dread of liquids, is set down on good authority, not as true rabies, but a symptomatic hydrophobia, attended witli mania. The dread of swallowing liquids, though the most singular symptom of the disease, con- stitutes but a small part of it. It is true, that none, or very few recover, who have this sym- ptom, yet, they certainly do not die, in conse- quence of the difficulty of swallowing liquids; for, the human body could easily exist double the time, at the end of which the disease usually proves fatal, without food, or drink. Besides, the sick can often swallow substances, that are nou- ishing, in a pulpy state, without, however, having their lite thereby at all prolonged. It. is not, therefore, the difficulty, or impossibility of swal- lowing liquids; but the effects of the poison upon the constitution at large, which occasion death. (Dr. J. Hunter in Trans. Jbr the Improvement of Med. Knowledge, Vol. 1, p. 805.) The extreme sensibility of the sick to all im- pressions, appears in the displeasure which they express at even the air blowing upon them; in their dislike to a strong light; in their aversion to new faces, or even the sight of their friends and relations; and in the terror they express at being touched, which almost threatens to throw them into convulsions. As the disease advances, the mind is more and more filled with dreadful fears and apprehensions. (Op. cit. p. 307.) In the second stage, the epigastrium, as well as the chest, is the seat of considerable pain; the patient is constipated, but the urine is plentiful and high-coloured. Before a certain period, the pulse is generally strong, regular, and a little accelerated ; but, towards the end of the case, it becomes small, irregular, feeble, and rapid. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 83.) The duration of life, from the appearance of hydrophobia till death, varies from thirty-six hours to four or five days: the most common period is from two to three days. (Dr. J. Hunter, Op. cit. p. 308.) The event is said to be directly caused by asphyxia, or the cessation of respiration. Of ten persons, who were bitten by tiie same animal, nine died on the second and third day, from the commencement of the horror of fluids, and only one on the fifth day. There is an account of a child at Senlis, who lived nine days, but the description of the case, and the cir- cumstance of fourteen worms being found in the intestines, may raise doubts about the nature of the disease. (See Hist, da la Soc. Roy. dc Med. p. 209, 155.) Whatever maybe the resemblance found be- tween rabies and hydrophobia, with regard to the rapidity of their course, their causes, and some of their symptoms, the following considerations, as a modern writer observes, will always serve for the discrimination of one disorder from the other: tetanus attacks the muscles of the jaw, which remains motionless, while, in rabies, the jaw is not only moveable, but incessantly moving, in conse- quence of the efforts unremittingly made by the patient to free his mouth from the thick saliva, with which it is obstructed. In this last disorder, the muscles are alternately contracted and re- laxed ; but, in tetanus, they always continue rigid. Tetanus is rarely attended with any aver- sion to liquids, and the patient may be kept for a long time in a bath without inconvenience; and the paroxysms are neither excited, nor increased by a vivid liglrt, a noise, the patient’s being touched, or the sight of water, or shining sur- faces. In addition to these differences, it is to be remembered, that tetanus is most frequent in warm climates, and that it mostly comes on a few days after the receipt of a local injury, and may occur as a complication of any kind of wound, even that which is made in a surgical operation. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. 7\ 47, p. 80’.) On the subject of prognosis, with respect to the bite inflicted by a rabid animal, and its effects, as evinced in the decided form of rabies, there are several things worthy of attention. Accord- ing to some writers, small wounds are not less dangerous than others, find an attempt is mad$