797 LUMBAR ABSCESS. patient’s health is usually little, or not at all im- paired; indeed, we see in the faces of many per- sons with such abscesses, what is usually under- stood by the picture of health. Hence, how likely our professional conduct is to be arraigned, when great changes for the worse, and even deatli occur very soon after we have let out the matter, seemingly, and truly, in consequence of the ope- ration. Every plan, therefore, which is most likely to prevent these alarming effects, is en- titled to infinite praise; and such, I conceive, is the practice recommended by Mr. Abernethy. This gentleman’s method is to let out the matter, and heal the wound immediately after- wards by the first intention. He justly con- demns all introductions of probes, and other in- struments, which only irritate the edges of the puncture, and render them unlikely to grow to- gether again. The wound is to be carefully closed with sticking plaster, and it will almost always heal. These proceedings do not put a stop to the secretion of matter within the cavity of the abscess. Of course, a fresh accumulation takes place; but, it is obvious that the matter, as fast as it is produced, will gravitate to the lowest part of the cyst, and, consequently, the upper part will remain for a certain time undistended, and have an opportunity of contracting. When a certain quantity of matter has again accumulated, and presents itself in the groin, or elsewhere, which may be in about a fortnight after the first puncture, the abscess is to be punc- tured again, in the same manner as before, and the wound healed in the same way. The quantity of matter will now be found much less, than what was at first discharged. Thus the abscess is to be repeatedly punctured at intervals, and the wounds as regularly healed by the first intention, by which method, irritation and inflammation of the cyst will not be induced, the cavity of the matter will never be allowed to become distended, and it will be rendered smaller and smaller, till the cure is complete. In a few instances, the surgeon may, perhaps, be unable to persevere in healing the repeated punctures which it maybe necessary to make; but, after succeeding once or twice, the cyst will probably have had sufficient opportunity to contract so much, that its surface will not now be of alarming extent. It is also a fact, that the cyst loses its irritability and becomes more indolent, and less apt to inflame, after the contents have been once or twice evacuated, in the above way. Its disposition to absorb be- comes also stronger. The knowledge of the fact, that the cysts of all abscesses are absorbing surfaces, should lead us never to neglect other means, which Mr. Abernethy suggests, as likely to promote the dispersion of the abscess, by quickening the action of the absorbents. Blisters kept open with savine cerate, issues, electricity, occasional vomits of the sulphate of zinc, are the means most conducive to this object. When the ver- tebrae are diseased, issues are doubly indicated. in the latter complication, the case is always ' jmgerous. If an opening be made, in the abscess, the cyst is at first more likely to be irritated, than when the bones are not dis- eased, and the affection of the spine is ren- dered much less likely to undergo any improve- ment, in consequence of the mere formation of an outward communication. The same bad effect attends necrosis; in which ease, the ab- sorption of the dead bone is alwavs retarded by the presence of unhealed fistulse and sores, which lead down to the disease. Mr. Crowther succeeded in dispersing some large lumbar abscesses without opening them. Large blisters, applied to the integuments covering the swelling, and kept open with the savine cerate, effected the cure. When this gentleman punctured such collections of matter, he used a small trocar, which he introduced at the same place as often as necessary. He ob- serves, that the aperture so made does not ulcerate, and allows no matter to escape after being dressed. I cannot, however, discover any reason for his preferring the trocar to the ab- scess lancet, except that the cannula enables the surgeon to push back with a probe any flakes of lymph, &c. which may obstruct its inner orifice. But, this is scarcely a reason, when Mr. Aber- nethy informs us, that the opening, made with an abscess lancet, is large enough to allow such flakes to be discharged; and when they stop up the aperture, a probe might also be employed to push them back. A wound made with a cutting instrument will, cceteris paribus, always unite more certainly by the first intention, than one made with such an instrument as a trocar. Mr. Crowther may always have succeeded in healing the aperture; but, I do not believe, that other practitioners would experience equal success. Were the tumor not very prominent, from the quantity of matter being small, suddenly' plung- ing in a trocar might even endanger parts, which should, on no account, be injured. Some writers recommend opening lumbar ab- scesses with a seton. The matter being made to form as prominent a swelling as possible, by- pressing the abdomen, and putting the patient in a position, which will make the contents of the abscess gravitate towards the part where the seton is to be introduced, a transverse cut is first to be made in the integuments down to the fascia. A flat trocar is next to be introduced within the incision, which should only be just large enough to allow the instrument to pass freely up under the skin, for at least three quarters of an inch ; when the hand is to be raised, and the trocar pushed obliquely and gentlv up- wards, till the cannula is within the lower part of the sac. The trocar must now be withdrawn, and the matter allowed to flow out gently', stop- ping it every now and then for some minutes. The assistant must now withdraw his hand, to take away the pressure, and the thumb of his left hand upon the opening of the cannula, hold- ing it between his fore and middle fingers. It must then be pushed upward, nearly to the top of the tumor, where its end may be distinctly' felt with the fore-finger of the right hand. As soon as it can be plainly' felt, it must be held steadily in the same position, and the trocar is to be introduced into it again, and pushed through the skin, at the place where it is felt, and the can- nula along with it. The trocar being next with- drawn, a probe with a skein of fine soft silk, dipped in oil, must be passed through the can- nula, which being now taken away', leaves the