LITHOTOMY. 773 LATERAL OPERATION. So named from the prostate gland, and neck of the bladder, being laterally cut. From some quotations made by Mr. Carpue from the-works of Franco, it appears clear enough, that the latter was not only the inventor of the lateral operation, but that he placed his pa- tients in the position adopted at the present time, used similar instruments to those now employed, (excepting that his gorget had no sharp side) and made the same incisions. Now, as this claim of Franco to an invention of such importance had been nearly, or quite forgot, when Mr. Carpue’s work made its appearance, the latter gentleman deserves much praise for reminding the profession of what may be due to the memory of an old surgeon, whose name must flourish, as long as the history of the rise and progress of surgery is interesting to mankind. But, though Franco appears probably to have practised the lateral operation, or something very much like it, he never established the method as a per- manent improvement in surgery, which measure was left to be completed long afterwards by an ecclesiastic, who called himself Frere Jacques: lie came to Paris in 16'97, bringing with him abundance of certificates of his dexterity in ope- rating ; and making his history known to the court and magistrates of the city, he got an order to cut at the Hotel-Dieu, and the Charite, where he performed this operation on about fifty persons. His success did not answer the pro- mises, which he had made, and from that time his reputation seems to have declined in the world, if we may give credit to Dionis, who has furnished us with these particulars.—(Sharp's Operations.) Frere Jacques used a large round staff without a groove, and when it was introduced into the bladder, he depressed its handle, with an intention of making the portion of this viscus, which he wished to cut, approach the perinseum. He then plunged a long dagger-shaped knife into the left hip, near the tuber ischii, two finger-breadths from the perinaeum, and pushing it towards the bladder, opened it in its body, or as near the neck as he could, directing his incision upward from the amts. He never withdrew his knife, till a sufficient opening had been made for the extrac- tion of the stone. Sometimes he used a conductor to guide the forceps, but more commonly di- rected them with his finger, which he passed into the wound after withdrawing the knife. When he had hold of the stone, he used to draw it out in a quick rough manner, heedless of the bad consequences. His only object was to get the stone extracted, and he disregarded every thing else; all preparatory means, all dressings, all after-treatment. (Allan, p. %:i.) Totally ignorant of anatomy, and thus rude and indiscriminate in practice, Frere Jacques soon sunk into disrepute. However, there were several eminent surgeons, who conceived, from considering the parts, which he cut, that his method might be converted into a most useful operation. [Sharp's Operations.) The principal defect, in his first manner of cutting, was the want of a groove in his staff, which made it difficult to carry the knife into the bladder. At length, Frere Jacques was pre- vailed upon to study anatomy, by which his judgment being improved, he readily embraced several improvements, which were suggested to him. Indeed, we are informed, that he now suc- ceeded better, and knew more, than is generally imagined. Mr. Sharp says, that when he him- self was in France in 1702, he saw a pamphlet, published by this celebrated character, in which his method of operating appeared so much im- proved, that it scarcely differed from the prac- tice of that time. Frere Jacques had learnt the necessity of dressing the wound after the opera- tion, and had profited so much from the criti- cisms of Mery, Fagon, Felix, and Hunauld, that he then used a staff with a groove, and, what is more extraordinary, had cut thirty-eight patients successively, without losing one. (Sharp's Ope- rations.) In short, as a modern writer has observed, he lost fewer patients, than we do at the present day, in operating with a gorget. Fie is said to have cut nearly 5000 patients in the course of his life, and, though persecuted by the regular lithotomists, he was imitated by Marechal at Paris, Raw in Holland, and by Bamber, and Cheselden in England, where his operation was perfected. (Allan.) For a particular history of Frere Jacques, and his operations, Allan refers us to Bussiere's Letter to Sir Hans S/oane, Philos. Trans. 1699. Observations sur la Maniere de tailler dans les deux Sexes, pour VExtraction de la Pierre, pratiquee par F. Jacques, par J. Mery, Lister's Journey to Paris in 1698. Cours d' Operations de Chirurgie, par Dionis. Ga- rengeot Traitd dcs Operations, T. 3, Mo- rand, Opuscule Chirurgie, Part 2. Among the many, who saw Frere Jacques operate, was the famous Professor Raw, who carried his method into Flolland, and practised it with amazing success. He never published any account of it himself, though he admitted several to his operations; but, after his death, his successor Albinus, gave the world a very circumstantial detail of all the processes, and mentions, as one of Raw’s improvements, that he used to open the bladder, between its neck and the ureter. But, either Albinus, in his re- lation, or Raw himself in his supposition, was mistaken ; since it is almost impossible to cut the bladder in that part upon the common staff, without also wounding the neck. (Sharp in Operations and Critical Enquiry.) Raw’s method was objectionable, even when accomplished, as the urine could not readily escape, and became extravasated around the rec- tum, so as to produce terrible mischief. There is little doubt, that Raw’s really successful plan was only imitative of Frere Jacques’s second improved one, though he was not honourable enough to confess it. (See Ferhius de Calculo Vcticcc.) Dr. Bamber was the first man in England, who made.a trial of Raw’s method on the living subject, which he did in St. Bartholomew’s Flos- pital. Cheselden, who had been in the habit of practising the high operation, gladly^abandoned it, on receiving the account of Raw s plan and success, and, a few days after Bamber. lie began to cut in.this way in St. 1 honias s Hospital. Cheselden ubed at first to operate in the fol-