AMPUTATION. 91 a knife. However, this cannot be considered as amputation at the hip-joint. Dividing a few dead fibres was a thing of no importance, in re- gard to the likelihood of its creating any bad symptoms. The proceeding, in fact, seems to me to have no analogy at all to the bloody ope- ration of taking the thigh bone out of the socket. It is quite a different thing, when the operator lias to cut through parts, which bleed profusely, and are endued with life and sensibility. In addition to the memoir by Barbet, thirty- three other essays were offered to the academy, the majority of which were filled with arguments in favour of the operation; and, besides these pro- ductions, two other memoirs were published at Paris, one by Goursaud in 1758, explaining a new method of operating, and another by Moublet. (See Joum. at Meade. an. 1759.) in which, says Professor Thomson, the operation is very ably considered in all its different relations. (Ohs. inane in the Mil. Hospitals in Belgium, p. 260. 63.) Some of the first modern surgeons condemn the proceeding. The following are Mr. Pott’s sentiments : “ M. Bilguer, and M. Tissot, are the only people whom I have met with, or heard of, in the profession, who speak of an amputation in the joint of the hip, as an advisable thing, or as being preferable to the same operation in the thigh.’’ After a quotation or two, he continues ; “ that amputation in the joint of the hip is notan impracticable operation (although it be a dread- ful one) I very well know. I cannot say, that I have ever done it, but 1 have seen it done, and am now very sure I shall never do it, unless it be on a dead body. The parallel, which is drawn between this operation and that in the shoulder will not hold. In the latter it sometimes happens, that the caries is confined to the head of the os hu- meri, and that the scapula is perfectly sound and unaffected. In the case of a carious hip-joint, this never is the fact; the acetabulum ischii, and parts about, are always, more or less in the same state, or at least in a distempered one, and so indeed most frequently are the parts within the pelvis,” &e. (Putt on Amputation.') Callisen has diffi- culty in supposing any circumstances, in which the amputation could be undertaken with hopes of suc- cess. (Syst. Chir. Hod. p. 418, Tom. 2, edit. 1800.) And Richerand thinks, that, unless the limb be nearly separated by the disease, or accident, a prudent surgeon should decline making the at- tempt. (A osogr. Chir. Tom. 4. p. 519. edit. 4.) As Professor Thomson has justly observed, it is a remarkable fact in the history of surgery, that an operation, which had been invented in 1'ranee, and concerning which so much had been written in that country, should have been first actually put in practice in England. “ I have been informed, (says he) that the operation was performed in London by the late Mr. II. Thom- son, surgeon to the London Hospital, arid ima- gine, that it must have been his operation, to "hicli Mr. Pott alludes.” (Obs. made in the Mil. Hospitals in Belgium, p. 264.) At all events, whether this was the identical case which Mr. Pott saw, or not, the example referred to by this distinguished surgeon is the earliest instance of the operation being actually performed. It was even repeated in this country before it was ever practised on the continent, as far as can be made 01:1 from the records of the profession ; lor, it was performed by Mr. Kerr, of Northampton, on a girl, between eleven and twelve years of age, in a case of diseased hip; a case, in which I am now completely satisfied that it ought never to be attempted, for the reason laid down by Mr. Pott. In fact, Mr. Kerr, after removing the limb, found the acetabulum, and all the adjacent parts of the ossa innominata, carious. But, the experiment was here rendered still more hopeless, by the pa- tient being consumptive. Yet, with all these dis- advantages, the girl lived till the eighteenth day from the operation, and, after death, her lungs were found to be a complete mass of disease, one of them being totally reduced to matter. (See Duncan’s Med. Commentaries, vol. 6, p. 337, 8oo. Load. 1779.) M. Larrey performed this operation twice in Egypt; and once, while he was a surgeon to the French armvon the Rhine. He was encouraged to make these attempts to save his patients by the consideration, that he had already preserved some lives by amputating either both thighs, both legs, or both arms, or re- moving the humerus at the shoulder joint. Lar- rey has also the true merit of having first done the operation in the only description of cases, in which perhaps it ought ever to be performed; viz. gunshot injuries of the head, neck, and upper part of the femur, with, or without injury of the femoral artery, or where the limb had been car- ried away by a shell, or cannon-ball, too high up to admit of amputation in the ordinary manner. However, he also regards as fit occasions for amputation at the hip-joint, circumstances in which, from gunshot violence, the limb is seized, or threatened with gangrene, nearly up to the hip. (Mem. de Chir. Mil. 1. 2, p. 185.) Severe as the operation is, Larrey contends, that it is an act of humanity, if it ever is the means of saving lives, which are in danger, and, he argues, that it is justifiable by the old maxim of Hippocrates, “ Ad extremos morbos ex- trema remedia.” To the chief objections, which have been made to it, he replies, 1st, That the wound is more alarming than dangerous. The Caesarean operation, (says he) has been success- fully performed on the living female, and is still recommended by many practitioners. L’Aumo- nier, principal surgeon bf the Rouen Hospital, has successfully removed a scirrhous ovary of considerable size. Examples are recorded of the arm and scapula being torn away, and the patients soon recovering. Besides, the surgeon has it in his power to lessen the wound, produced by the operation. 2dly. The dangers of hemorrhage may be obviated by the assistants temporarily placing their fingers on the mouths of the cut vessels, until ligatures can be applied. In confirmation of his sentiments, concerning the propriety of the operation, Larrey adverts to a fact reported by Morand, where a soldier had both his legs amputated very high up, and also both his arms so near the shoulders, that he could hold nothing in his armpits. Yet, mutilated as he was, he enjoyed good health. (Opuscules de Chir. p. 183.) And, Larrey, in his own work, has recorded several instances, in which the whole of a limb was removed, or more than the halves of both the upper or lower extremities of the same subject, without any fatal constitutional dislurl)- ance. (Mdin. de Chir. Mil. t. 2, 7’- 182-184.) One of his patients above alluded to, survived the