372 DISLOCATION. minenee, formed by the lower end of the frac- ture in the axilla, might otherwise cause. (See Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus.) Inflammatory symptoms seldom follow dis- locations of the humerus. Many authors, par- ticularly B. Bell, speak of an (edematous swell- ing of the whole upper extremity, as a frequent consequence of a dislocation inward, and it is re- ferred to the compression of the axillary glands. Experience has not often demonstrated this oc- currence at the Hotel Dieu, except in very old luxations; and when the thing has occurred, very beneficial effects have been obtained, in certain instances, by applying, for a few days, a moderately tight bandage from the fingers up to the axilla, after the reduction has been accom- plished. Bichat relates a case, in which the oedema did not disappear with the caitse, but even rather increased ; but the day after a ban- dage had been applied, the swelling was found diminished by one half. There is another consequence, to which au- thors have paid but little attention ; though it was known to Avicenna, and was several times ob- served by Desault. This is a palsy of the upper extremity, arising from the pressure, made by the head of the bone, when dislocated inward, upon the axillary plexus of nerves. This conse- quence sometimes resists every means of relief.' Indeed, when the nerves have been a long time compressed, the affection is very difficult of cure. Desault several times applied the moxa above the clavicle. The success, which lie first experienced on some patients, did not follow invariably in others. But, when the head of the humerus has only made, as it were, a momentary pressure on the nerves, and the reduction has been effected, soon after the appearance of the symptoms, the paralytic affection often goesoff of itself, and its dispersion may always be powerfully prom<Jled by the use of volatile liniments. OF THE REDUCTION. We may refer to two general classes, the infinitely various number of means, proposed for the reduction of a dislocated humerus. The first are designed to push back, by some kind of mechanical force, the head of the bone, into the cavity from which it is displaced, either with, or without making previous extension. The others are merely intended to disengage the head of the bone from the place which it accidentally occupies, leaving it to be put into its natural situation by the action of the muscles. By the first means, art effects every thing; by the second, it limits its interference to the suitable direction of the powers of nature. In the first method, the force externally applied always operates on the bone in the diagonal of two powers, which resist each other at a more or less acute angle; in the last, the power is only in one direction. Here it is only necessary to state, that all the means, intended! to operate in the first way, act nearly in the following manner. Something, placed under the axilla, serves as a fulcrum, on which the arm is moved as a lever, the resistance being produced by the dislocated head of the humerus, while the power is applied either to the lower part of this bone, or the wrist. The con- dyles of the humerus being pushed downward and inward, the head of the bone is necessarily moved in the opposite direction, towards the glenoid cavity, into which it slips with more or less facility. Thus operated the machine, so celebrated among the ancients and moderns, under the name of the ambi of Hippocrates; whether used exactly in the form described by him, or with the numerous corrections devised by Paul of -Egina, Ambrose Pare, Duverney, Freke, ike. By this machine, a double motion is com- municated to the head of the humerus, as above explained. The extension usually moves the bone from if its unnatural situation, and is executed in dif- ferent ways. Sometimes, the weight of the body on one side, and thedraggingof the end of the dis- located bone on the other, tend to produce this effect. Such Was the action of the ladder, door. See. described in Hippocrates’s Treatise on Frac- tures, arfd repeated in moderij works. Some- times, the trunk is fixed in an unchangeable manner, while the arm is powerfully extended, as is practised in employing the machine of Oribasiu.s, and was one of the methods formerly adopted in the public places, where wrestlers combated. Sometimes, no extension is sensibly executed, and while the end of the humerus is pushed out- ward by a body placed under the axilla, the sur- geon pushes it upward into the glenoid cavity. We shall not here inquire into the incon- veniences peculiar to each of these methods. Petit and B. Bell have already done so. We shall only point out the objections, common to all of them. The exit of the head of the bone, through the lacerated capsule, is not necessarily attendant on the dislocation. Nor is it even possible to know with precision the situation of this opening. Why then should we make use of an artificial force to direct the head of the bone towards this opening? However covered the body placed under the axilla may be, to serve as a fulcrum, there is always a more or less inconvenient chafing, fre- quently dreadful stretching and laceration of , parts, in consequence of its application, when the trunk is suspended upon it, as in the instance of the door, &c. In this way, Petit has seen a frac- ture of the neck of the humerus produced, and < even a laceration and aneurism of the axillary artery. Few surgeons have ready at hand the dif- ferent kinds of apparatus. Hence, trouble and loss of time in getting them; time, which is of so much moment in the reduction; this being always the more easy, the sooner it is accom- j plished. When the luxation is consecutive, how can mechanical means bring back the head of the bone, through the track it has taken? For in- stance, if to a dislocation downward one inward has succeeded, the head of the bone must ne- cessarily be brought down, before it can be re- placed in its cavity. The above artificial means often act repugnantly to the action of the muscles, which is a chief and essential agent in the re- duction. If the dislocation should be upward, they would obviously be ineffectual. Perhaps, however, they might be advan- ;