FRACTURES. 489 upper one, embraced by the extensor muscles, is drawn upward very forcibly by these powers, which the patella no longer resists ; while the inferior portion, being merely connected with the ligament below, is not moved by any muscle, and can only be displaced by the motions of the W to which it is attached. Hence, the sepa- ration is least when the limb is extended, being then only produced by the upper fragment; greatest, when the limb is bent, because both pieces contribute to it; and it may be increased, or diminished, by bending the knee more or less. As Boyer has particularly noticed, the lace- ration, or not, of the tendinous expansion, upon the front of the patella, makes a material dif- ference in these cases, because it is a part of great importance in the cure. According to this author, a portion of it in simple fractures of the patella generally escapes laceration, and the se- paration of the fragments is then not very con- siderable ; but, violent action of the extensor muscles, the fall subsequent to the fracture, or bending the knee too much, may separate the pieces of bone far from each other, and rupture the tendinous expansion. • (Trade des Mid. Chir. T. 3, p. 328.) According to Mr. A. Cooper, “ when the ligament is but little torn, the sepa- ration will be but half an inch ; but under great extent of injury, the bone is drawn five inches upwards, the capsular ligament, and tendinous aponeurosis covering it, being then greatly lace- rated.” (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p, 84.) The upper portion of bone may be moved transversely, and pain is thus excited, but no crepitus can be felt, as the two pieces of bone are not sufficiently near each other. When the swelling of the knee, consequent to fractures of the patella, is very great, the symptoms of the injury maybe more or less obscured. However, in consequence of the inability of the extensor muscles to move the leg, except in a few cases where the fracture is very low, the patient cannot stand without difficulty, and is nearly quite una- ble to walk. In the treatment of a fractured patella, the chief indications are to overcome the action of the extensor ttiuscles of the leg, and to keep the fragments as near each other as possible, partly by a judicious position of the limb, and partly by mechanical means. The first indication is ful- filled by relaxing the above-mentioned muscles; 1st, by extending the leg; 2dlv, by bending the thigh on the pelvis, or, in other words, rais- ing the femur, so that the distance between the knee and anterior superior spinous process of the ilium may be as little as possible, which object, however, will also require the body to be raised, and the pelvis somewhat inclined forwards. In short, as Richter long ago advised, the patient should be almost in a sitting posture, the trunk forming a right angle with the thigh. (Bibl. Chir. B.6, p. 6II, Gottingen, 1782.) 3rdly, The muscles are to be compressed with a roller. •The second indication, or that of placing and maintaining the fragments in contact, or as nearly so as circumstances will allow, is in a great measure already answered by the above re- commended position of the limb, and trunk ; but it is not perfectly fulfilled, unless the upper por- tion of the bone be also pressed towards the lower fragment, and mechanically held in this situation by the pressure of an apparatus, or bandage. And, in pushing the upper fragment towards the lower one, the surgeon should always be careful that the skin be not depressed and pinched be- tween them. Having described the principles which ought to be observed, I do not know that any-great utility would result from a detail of the various methods of treating a broken patella preferred by different surgeons. In the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery may be found a description of the plan and apparatus employed by Baron Boyer. Desault’s practice, which was related in the last edition of this Dictionary, I now omit, as not being exactly such as modern surgeons would adopt; not from any of his principles being erroneous, but because his apparatus is more complicated than necessary. After putting the patient in bed upon a mat- tress, and in the desirable posture, with the limb confined, supported, and raised, as above di- rected, upon a well padded hollow splint, Mr. A. Cooper applies at first no b-indage to the knee, but covers it with linen wet with a lotipn, composed ^of liq. pluinbi acet. dilut. <jv. and spir. vin. ?j. If. on the succeeding day, or two, there be much tension, or ecchymosis, leeches should be applied, and the lotion continued; but the employment of a bandage is not to com- mence until the tension has subsided; for Mr. A. Cooper assures us, that he has seen the greatest suffering, and such swelling as threat- ened gangrene, produced in these cases by the too early use of a roller. Instead of a circular bandage, placed above and below the broken bone, and drawn together with tape, &c. so as to bring the upper fragment towards the lower one, this experienced surgeon prefers tlje following method. A leather strap is buckled round the thigh, above the broken and elevated portion of bone, and from this circular piece of leather, another strap passes under the middle of the foot, the leg being extended, and the foot considerably raised. This strap is brought up to each side of ' the patella, and buckled to the leather band already applied to the lower part of the thigh. It may also be fastened to the foot,' or any part * of the leg, with tapes. The limb is to be con- fined in this position five weeks, if the patient be an adult, and six if advanced in years. Then a slight passive motion is to be begun, and to be gently increased, from day to day, until the flexion of the knee is complete. {Surgical Es- s-ays, Pori 2, p- 91.) But, although the impro- priety of making any constriction of the knee with a bandage, while the skin is swelled and in- flamed, must be obvious, the surgeon ought to be apprised, that such swelling and inflammation ought not to occasion the least delay in placing the limb in the right posture, and pressing the - upper fragment towards the lower one. Moh- renheim ascribes the lameness so frequent for- merly after this fracture, partly to the custom of not thinking of bringing the pieces of bone together until the swelling had subsided, and partly to the fashion of bending the joint too soon, with a view of preserving its motion.. But, says he, nothing can be clearer, than that it is most advantageous to attend to the union of the frac- ture first, and to the flexibility of the joint after- wards. (Beobachtungen, 2 B. 8t'o. 1783.) Boyer hns likewise remarked, that the uniting