396 EAR. sified. Lesclievin and Boyer have never met with such a case, either in practice, or in the works of surgical writers. In this section, a few malformations of the ex- ternal ear require notice. Sometimes the ori- fice of the meatus auditorius is diminished by the tragus, antitragus, and antihelix being depressed into it. Here the excision of these wrongly formed eminences has been recommended, as a surer means of perfecting the sense of hearing, than the use of any tube, or dilating instruments. The tragus has been known to project considerably backwards, and to apply itself most closely over the orifice of the meatus, which was also a mere slit, instead of a round opening. In one case of this description, relief was obtained by the intro- duction of tubes, calculated to maintain the tra- gus in its proper position. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 38, />. 28.) Sometimes the outer ear is entirely wanting. Thus Fritelli has given an account of a child in this condition, whose physiognomy at the same time strongly resembled that of an ape. (Ortc- schi Giorn dt Med. T. 3, p. 80.) Oberteuffer has also recorded an example of a total deficiency of the auricles in an adult, who yet heard very well. (Stark’s Neues Archiv. B. 2, p. 638. F. Meckel Hundbuch dcr Pathol. Anat. B. 1, p. 400, Leipz. 1812.) Many years ago, I remember a child, which was shewn to several medical gentlemen in Lon- don, as a curiosity; it was entirely destitute of all appearance of external ears, and no vestiges of the meatus auditorii could be seen, these open- ings being completely covered by the common integuments. Yet the child could hear a great deal, though the sense was certainly dull and im- perfect. I remember, that the circumstance of the patient hearing so well as he did, was what ex- cited considerable surprise. I am sorry I do not more particularly recollect, at the present time, the degree in which this sense was enjoyed, and several other circumstances, such as the child’s age, power of speech, &e. The example, however, is interesting, inasmuch as it proves, that even a deficiency of the auricles, combined with an imperforate condition of both ears,, may be unattended with complete deafness, provided the internal and more essential parts of these organs are sound and perfectly formed. Baron Boyer attended a young man, the lobule of one of whose ears extended in a very inconve- nient manner over the cheek: the redundant por- tion was removed with a pair of scissars, and the wound soon healed. The auricle, not being a very irritable part, is not often inflamed, and when it is so, the affec- tion is generally of an erysipelatous charac- ter. Portal has seen the part nearly an inch thick; and he takes notice of the prodigious thickness, which the lobe of the ear sometimes acquires in women, who wear very heavy ear- rings, which keep up constant irritation. Small encysted and adipose swellings occasionally grow under the skin of the external ear, and demand the same treatment as swellings of the same nature in other situations. (See 7 amors.) Lastly, the external ear is frequently the seat of scro- fulous, and other ill-conditioned ulcers. I hose cases generally require cleanliness, alterative medicines, and to be dressed with the ung. hydrarg. nitrat. or a solution of the nitrate of silvpr ; and sometimes, when the sores resist for a long time the effects of medicine and the usual dressings, they will soon heal up, if the treat- ment be assisted with a blister, or seton, kept open on the nape of the neck. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 38, p. 28, 29.) 2. Of the Meatus Auditorius, and its Imperfection. This is the passage, which leads from the cavity of the external ear, called the concha, down to the membrane of the tympanum. It is partly cartilaginous, and partly bony, and has an oblique winding direction, so that its whole ex- tent cannot be easily seen. There are circum- stances, however, in which it is proper to look as far as possible into the passage. Such is the case, when the surgeon is to extract any foreign body, to remove any excrescence, or to detect any other occasion of deafness. Fabrieius Hildanus gives a piece of advice upon this subject, not to be despised; namely, to expose the ear to the'rays of the sun, in order to be enabled to see the very bottom of the meatus auditorius externus. The surgical operations practised on the mea- tus auditorius are confined to opening it, when preternaturally closed, extracting foreign bodies, washing the passage out with injections, and removing excrescences, which may form there. The case which we shall nevt treat of, is the imperforation of the meatus auditorius externus, a defect with which some children are born. When the malformation exists in both ears, it generally renders the subject dumb, as well as deaf, for, as he is incapable of imitating sounds, which he does not hear, he cannot of course learn to speak, although the organs of speech may be perfect, and in every respect rightly dis- posed. In this case, the surgeon has to. rectify the error of nature, and, (to use the language of Leschevin,) he has to give by a double miracle, hearing and speech to an animated being, who, deprived of these two faculties, can scarcely be regarded in society as one of the human race. Flow highly must such an operation raise the utility and excellence of surgery in the estima- tion of the world! When the meatus auditorius externus is merely closed by an external membrane, the nature of the case is evident, and the mode of relief equally easy. But, when the membrane is more deeply situated in the passage, near the tympanum, the diagnosis is attended with more difficulty, and the treatment with greater trouble. If the preternatural membrane is external, or only a little way within the passage, it is to be divided with a bistoury ; the small flaps are to be cut away; a tent, of a suitable size, is to be introduced into the opening; and the wound is to be healed secundum artem, care being taken to keep it constantly dilated, until the cicatriza- tion is completed. When the obstruction is deeply situated, we must first be sure of its existence, which is never ascertained, or even suspected, till after a long while. It is not till after children are past the age, at which they usually begin to talk, that any defect is suspected in tile organ of hearing, because until litis period, little notice is taken,