126 ANEURISM. son), that the radical cure of an aneurism cannot take place, without the obliteration of the artery, from which the disease originates. It is probably owing to this idea, that aneurisms of the aorta have generally been considered as incurable dis- eases, and consequently that so little attention has been given to their treatment.” (P'. 118.) The facts, however, which this gentleman has re- lated, satisfactorily prove, 1st. That a deposition of coagulum may take place in an aneurismal sac, to such an extent as entirely to preclude the communication between its cavity and that of the artery from which it originates. Secondly, that a sac, thus filled with coagulum, cannot prove fatal by rupture; and thirdly, that the gradual absorption of its contents, and the consequent contraction of the sac, may proceed to such an extent as to effect the cure of the disease, without any obstruction taking place in the calibre of the vessel from which it originates. See cases 20, 21, 22, &e. (Hodgson on Diseases of the Arteries, Qc. p. 1 19, cjr.) In support of this doctrine, some facts are also cited from Corvisart. (Essai stir Us Maladies du Cceur, p. 513. fc.) A part of these cases, it is true, are not viewed exactly in this light by Kreysig, who argues (as I think without much probability), that they might have been only adipose swellings con- nected with, or formed in the parietes of the artery, a disease described by Stenzel. (German Transl. of Mr. Hodgson's Book, p. 174.) That a punctured artery may occasionally be healed in this manner, Scarpa himself proves, by a case which he examined, where an aneurism took place from the wound of a lancet in bleed- ing. In the article Hemorrhage, we shall see, that Jones’s experiments show the same thing, and the particular circumstances in which it may happen. But the occurrence is rare, and Scarpa says, that it can hardly be called a radical cure, as the cicatrix is always found in a state ready to burst and break, if the arm is, by any accident, violently stretched or struck where the wound was situated. In the spontaneous cure of aneurisms, arising from arteries of inferior size to that of the aorta, repeated examinations have proved, that the deposition of coagulum does not in general merely fill up the sac, but obliterates the tube of the artery above and below the disease to the next important ramifications. Yet, even here, excep- tions probably take place; for Mr. Hodgson has brought forward one instance, in which a small sac, which originated from the anterior artery of the cerebrum, was completely filled with firm coagulum, which did not extend into the cavity of the vessel. (On Disrates of Arteries, p. 132.) And he reports the particulars of a true femoral aneurism, communicated to him by Mr. A. Coo- per, in which, after the patient’s death, the femoral artery was found dilated into a sac, which was lined on all sides with very firm layers of coagu- lum, in the centre of which was an irregular canal, through which the circulation was continued. As the inside of this canal presented a membranous appearance, it was inferred that the aneurism had been cured (Op. cit. p. 1S4.) Here I may be permitted to remark, that if this case be correctly reported, viz. if it were a true aneurism by dilata- tion of all the arterial coats, and the inside of it was every where lined by firm layers of coagulum, it amounts to a proof that such a deposition is not entirely confined to aneurisms by rupture, as Scarpa supposes. And, in addition to this fact, I may mention, as referring to the same ques- tion, a case of aneurism from dilatation of the arterial coats, observed by Guattani, where the same process took place. “ Arteriae iliacse ovalem hanc partem aneurysmaticam polyposa substantia varise densitatis adeo infarctam esse denotebam, ut tunicarum ejusdem forma penitus destructa in uniformem massam, spongia: cera imbutae si- milem, transformata videretur.” (Hist. 17. Col- lect. Lauth, p. 158.) Whenever the ulcerated, lacerated, or wounded arter\f is accurately compressed against a hard body, like the bones, it ceases to pour blood into the surrounding cellular sheath, because its sides, being kept in firm contact, for a certain extent above and below the breach of continuity', become united by the adhesive inflammation, and con- verted into a solid, ligamentous cylinder. Moli- nelli,,Guattani, and White, have given examples and plates illustrative of this fact. When aneu- risms get well spontaneously', the same fact is observed after death, as Valsalva, Ford, Ac. have demonstrated. I have my'self seen, in St. Bar- tholomew’s hospital, an instance in which a man had had a spontaneous cure of an aneurism in the left axilla, but afterwards died of hemorrhage from another aneurismal swelling under the right cla- vicle : the artery on the left side was found com- pletely impervious. My friend, Mr. Albert, had under his care, in the York Hospital, Chelsea, a dragoon, who recovered spontaneously of a very large aneurism of the external iliac artery: the tumour sloughed, discharged about two quarts of coagulated blood, and then granulated and finally healed up. Paoli relates a similar termination of a popliteal aneurism. Moinichen and Guattani relate other examples. Hunter found the femo- ral artery quite impervious, and obliterated, at the place where a ligature had been applied fifteen months before. Boyer noticed the same fact in a subject eight y'ears after the operation. Petit describes the spontaneous cure of an aneurism at the bifurcation of the right carotid : the subject having afterwards died of apoplexy, the vessel, on dissection, was found closed up and obliterated from the bifurcation, as far as the right subclavian artery'. Desault had an opportunity' of opening a patient, in whom a spontaneous cure of a po- pliteal aneurism was just beginning : he found a very' hard, bloody thrombus, which extended for three finger-breadths, within the tube of the ar- tery, above the sac, and was so firm, as to resist injection, and make it pass into the collateral branches. Both the spontaneous and surgical cures of aneurisms have generally two stages: in the first, the entrance of the blood into the aneurismal sac is interrupted; in the second, the parietes of the artery approach each other, and, becoming ag- glutinated, the vessel is converted into a solid cylinder. This doctrine is corroborated by the tumor first losing its pulsation, and then gradually' diminishing and disappearing. In order that compression may' make the op- posite sides of an artery' unite, and thus produce a radical cure of an aneurism, Scarpa says, the degree of pressure must be such as to place these opposite sides in firm and complete contact, and