1200 WOUND- by tbe pipe, on the handle being raised, so that the bladder would not rise, as usual, when no opening in the side of the bellows existed. If the latter opening be smaller, than that of the pipe, the bladder will only be partially filled, and, on depressing the handle of the bellows, the air, con- tained in the bladder, and that between the blad- der and the bellows, \\ill be expelled, in the same proportion to each other, as that, in which they were formerly filled. This process would con- tinue to go on in the same way, did not the blad- der naturally collapse more and more from its gravitation. Let us now stop the mouth of the pipe, while the handle of the bellows is raised, and the bladder partially filled. On trying next to depress the handle, it results, that, as no air can escape from the pipe, the air, contained be- tween the bladder and the bellows, must be first evacuated, while that, contained in the bladder of the sound side, will be forced into the bladder on the injured side, arid either distend it, so as to rupture it, or cause it to protrude. Hence, in the case of a wound, penetrating the chest, without injuring the lungs, if the air can enter more freely by the wound, than by the trachea, more of it will enter, in the act of in- spiration, into the cavity of the thorax, than into the lungs. On the contrary, when the opening of the wound is not so large as that of the tra- chea, less air will enter the thorax than the lungs. In the expiration, the air will be forced from tbe two different situations, in proportion to the quantity, which enters each of them in inspira- tion, and, no air at ail would accumulate in the thorax, did not the lungs always tend to collapse from their gravitation. Should, however, the patient, in making an effort to expire, contract the glottis, the air, contained in the lungs of the sound side, .may be propelled into the bronchia and air cells of the lungs, on the same side as the wound, so as to distend them, and even make them protrude at the wound. Dr. Halliday remarks, that such a protrusion often happens, when wounds are made in dogs, and has been erroneously adduced as an argu- ment against the collapse of the lungs, when an opening is made into the thorax of the human subject. (See Obs. on Emphysema, by Sir A. Halliday, 1807.) For information, concerning the treatment of this affection, see Emphysema. 5. I have already noticed, that wounds of the thorax may injure one of the intercostal arteries, and when the blood cannot flow outw ard, it may be extravasated in the chest. The same con- sequence may follow wounds of the pulmonary vessels, those of the heart, or of the heart itself. And here I may take the opportunity of remark- ing, that sometimes wounds of the heart do not prove instantaneously fatal. A case, in which a bayonet passed through the colon, stomach, dia- phragm, part of the lungs, and the right ven- tricle of the heart, and yet the patient lived nine hours after the receipt of the injury, is recorded by Dr. Babington. (See Med. Accords and Researches, Loud. 1798’; also a case by Chas- te.net in .Jour, de Med. Mil. T. 2.) In almost all cases, however, such injuries prove instantly fatal: and the same remark will extend to cases but, when they are less considerable, the patient may live fur a greater or less time, and receive the aid of surgery. The following are the symptoms, which denote an extravasation of blood in the thorax. The patient feels great oppression, and such uneasi- ness as will not let him long continue in one position. Unless he bend his body very much forward, in which position, the diaphragm is relaxed, and not so much dragged by the weight of the extravasated fluid, he feels great difficulty in standing, or sitting up. When the thighs are bent, the patient can lie with tolerable ease on his back; he is also not averse to lying on the side, on which the wound is situated ; but he cannot place himselfon the opposite side, without feeling very acute pain in the situation of the mediastinum. His respiration is short, frequent, and inter- rupted by sighs; his veins become empty'; a cadaverouspaleness spreads over his countenance; his extremities become cold; a viscid perspira- tion covers his neck and temples; his teeth chat- ter ; his pulse becomes weak; and if, as most frequently happens, the lungs are wounded, he spits up frothy blood, and air issues from the wound. Though one might suppose the above class of symptoms always attendant on a consider- able effusion of blood in the thorax, this is not the case. Wounded persons have been known to die of such an extravasation, whose respira- tion was tolerably free, and who did not com- plain of suffering more inconvenience in one posture, than another. Sabatier says, that se- veral facts of this kind have fallen under his own observation. Other wounded persons, also, who suffered most of the complaints ascriba- ble to extravasations of blood in the thorax, have been cured by ordinary means. Mery gives an account of a young man, wounded in the ante- rior and superior part of the chest, about two o’clock in the morning, who had such difficulty of breathing, and fever, five hours afterwards, that an extravasation was supposed to exist, and Mery was thinking of making an opening for its evacuation. A tumor near the great pectoral muscle, presenting neither the feel of fluctuation, nor that of emphysema, made him suspend his decision. The tumor was dispersed by bleeding, and the application of compresses, dipt in a mix- ture of spirit of wine and water. However, even the assemblage of the-above symptoms did not deceive Petit. Having been requested to assist at an operation, which was about to be done on a wounded man, about whose armpit, pectoralis major, and latissimus dorsi muscles, a prodigious emphysematous swelling had taken place ; whose respiration was painful and difficult ; and. who spit up frothy blood ; Petit gave it as his opinion, that it was unneces- sary to make an opening into the chest. He thought, it would be sufficient to enlarge the wound, which was at a little distance from the armpit, near the edge of the latissimus dorsi, so as to give vent to the effused air. This advice was followed, the emphysema soon disappeared, and the patient recovered. •The equivocal nature of the symptoms of ex- travasations of blood in the thorax, has induced