s 16 CORNEA. progressive mischief checked. When the case goes on favourably, it is a constant phenomenon in the cure of this disease, that, at every separa- tion of the eschar, the diseased sensibility of the eye is decreased ; the ulcer also, abandoning its pale ash-colour, assumes a delicate fleshy tint, a certain sign that the destructive process which prevailed is turned into a healing one. The tur- gid state of the vessels of the conjunctiva, and the degree of ophthalmy, disappear, in propor- tion as the ulcer draws near to a cure. At this epoch, when the formation of granulations has begun, the surgeon would act very wrongly, were lie to continue the use of the argentum nitratum ; it would now re-produce pain, effusion of tears, and inflammation in the eye; and the ulcer would take on that foul ash-coloured aspect, with swelled and irregular edges, which it had in the begin- ning. Platner has noticed this fact. Necesse tit, ut hoc temperatd manu, nec crebhus Jim, ve nova injiammatio, novaque lac.hryma liic acrioribus cort- citetur. Inst. Chirurg. § 314. As soon as ease is felt in the eye, and granulations begin to rise, whether after the first, second, or third applica- tion of the caustic, the surgeon must refrain from the use of every strong caustic, and use only the following collyrium. (;{/ Zinci Sulphate gr. iv. Aq. Rosx ^iv. mucil. Stsm. Cydon. waii Jss. M. This to be used every two hours, the eye, in the intervals, being defended from the air and light, by means of a slight compress, and retentive bandage. When, besides the ulcer of the cornea, a slight relaxation of the conjunctiva remains, Janin’s ointment, towards the end of the treat- ment, introduced between the eye and eye- lids, morning and evening, proves serviceable. It must be adapted in strength and quantity to the particular sensibility of the patient. To cure those superficial excoriations of the cornea, which make no excavation in the sub- stance of this membrane, and which, in reality, are only a detachment of the cuticle, covering the layer of the conjunctiva continued over the cornea, the use of caustic is not requisite. The same collyrium, combined with mucilage, is suf- ficient. The symptoms which accompany such slight excoriations, or detachments of the cuti- cle, are unimportant, and when the patient takes care to bathe his eye, every two or three hours, with the solution of sulphate of zinc, and to avoid too much light, and exposure to the air, they soon get well. According to Dr. Vetch, when the ulcerative process is likely to destroy the membrane, which lines the cornea, it can only be checked by measures, calculated to subdue the inflammation, upon which it depends. “As long, therefore, as there is an appearance of activity in the disease, or recurrence of pain, local blood-letting by cup- ping, or leeches, must be steadily adhered to The indication of the ulcer healing is easily seen in the diminished activity of the inflammation, relief from pain, and the clean aspect of the ulcerated part. The injection of vegetable, tepid astringent infusions may be used, or milk and water only. When called upon in extreme cases, where the immediate perforation of the inner membrane is threatened, we may, with great propriety, resort to the operation of puncturing the cornea at a place as remote as possible from the ulcer. Next in importance to a diminution of the action, on which the ulcer depends, is the removal by scari- fication of any slough thrown out from its sur- face, or imbedded in the adjoining part of the cornea. Sometimes, but always subordinate to these indications, we may add some topical ap- plications to the ulcer; a solution of nitrate of I silver, the infusion of tobacco, or calomel, in powder, applied with a camel’s hair pencil.” (Practical Treatise on Discuses of the Eye, V• 57-) In incipient protrusions of the inner membrane of the cornea, this author decidedly I condemns the use of the argentum nitratum ia the free manner proposed by Scarpa; observing, that, “if the caustic touches by accident the edge of the ulcer, or any part but the apex of I the projecting vesicle, it will often produce much mischief.” 1 hus far of ulcers of the cornea, and the best mode of curing them in ordinary cases. How- ever, sometimes, says Scarpa, in consequence of I ill-treatment, the ulcer, already very extensive, assumes the form of a fungous excrescence upon the cornea, appearing to derive its nourishment from a band of blood-vessels of the conjunctiva; and, on this account, it occasions, not unfre- quently, a serious mistake in being taken for a real pterygium. Left to itself, or treated with slight astringents, it produces, in general, a loss of the whole eye. It requires the speedy adoption of some active and efficacious plan, to ' destroy all the fungus upon the cornea, to anni- hilate the vessels of the conjunctiva tending to it, and to impede the progress of ulceration. This consists first in cutting away the fungus, with a pair of small scissars, to a level with the cornea, continuing the incision far enough upon the con- junctiva, to remove, with the excrescence, that string of blood vessels, from which it seems to derive its supply. Having effected this, and allowed trie blood to flow freely, Scarpa applies the argentum nitratum to all the space of the cornea, which appears to have been the seat of the fungus, so as to make a complete eschar; and if, upon its separation, the whole morbid surface should not be destroyed, he repeats the caustic until the ulcerative process changes into a healing one. To execute commodiously such a full application of the caustic, it is not in gene- ral enough to have the upper eyelid raised by an assistant, and the lower one depressed ; it is also further requisite, that the operator, by means of a spatula, introduced between the upper eyelid and the eyeball, should hold the same elevated with his own left-hand, while, with the right, he applies the caustic, so as to form a strong deep ' eschar. The action of the caustic cannot always be calculated with precision, and therefore a portion of the whole thickness of the cornea may be destroyed with the fungus, which never fails to be followed by a prolapsus of part of the iris, through the aperture made in the cornea. This accident may Seem grievous, yet it is not irre- parable, as will be shewn in the article h is, Pro- lapsus of; and when the surgeon can produce a firm cicatrix at the point, where the excrescence was situated, which prevents a re-production of the fungus, and a total destruction of the eye, he has fulfilled the indications required. (.Scurptf sulle Mnldttic drgli Occhi.) In a late publication, two cases of ulcer of the