attained a certain magnitude, the veins of the TUMOR. io:;d le kinds of tumors, is no proof, that such |iggfr#;y ,-^cs found within diseased structures, and that .'Is, cysts, granulated, and tuberculated nppear- ices are often noticed in tumors of different nds, are facts universally received. But, the esence of hydatids in the unchanged state is dv an occasional circumstance, whereas, if tiiey •re generally a cause of tumors by undergoing me unexplained transformation, it is impos- :>ie to suppose, that some of them, at least, uld not be more commonly found in a tinct, unaltered form within, or around ail filings, imagined to proceed from clusters them. As the growth of tumors, formed these principles, could not, I imagine, Le ounted for, without supposing a continual l Implication and transformation of hydatids, ter within, or around the swellings, one would iect, that some visible hydatids, previously to ir transfiguration, would certainly be apparent minutely examining the interior and the co- nference of the diseased structure. Yet, I not aware, tiiat such fact has been proved to : generally the ease, either by the aid of the ■Ipel, or the microscope. The observation of dies, cells, and tuberculated appearances in lifieations of structure are transformed hyda- . Besides, if my limits would allow me to •dder this topie further, many reasons might | irged against the hydatid doctrine, arising i the consideration of the changes evident in blood-vessels, supplying parts, in which a liderable tumor is situated. Thus, we often ! iie trunks of the arteries, running towards parts, doubled in size, just as is noticed, respect to the carotid in the natural growth . e stag’s horn, and indicating, at least, that ormation and increase of swellings are ef- d through the medium of the blood-vessels, sudden effect of .tying the arteries, by which nor is supplied with blood, would also be si ult to explain, if the growth of the swelling ' depended upon some undefined transfor- in of hydatids. seems to be generally admitted, that the tli of all tumors may be retarded, and that times, they may even be diminished by I s of topical bleeding with leeches, and keep- le parts in a continually cool state, by the ;ant application of cold sedative washes, wards, when the increased action of the s seems checked, and the tumor ceases to ;e, discutients are indicated, such as fric- with mercurial ointment, pressure, elec- , rubefacient plasters, solutions of salts, s, and issues. Very few sarcomatous or ed tumors, however, are ever completely ed by these local means. The swelling, • contrary, generally increases, notwith- ig them, and the irritation of the disease nulatits, is not altogether unattended with of the affection becoming changed by nto very malignant, and dangerous cases, mes to all appearances cancerous. The advisable plan is to recommend the d of sarcomatous tumors with the knife, •hey are small, and in an incipient state, ms they are got rid of by an operation, is certainly trivial, compared with what dterwards become requisite, if the disease llowed to proceed, and attain an enor- nagnittide. Tumohs, SAncoMATOtrs. These have been so named, from their firm, fleshy feel. They are of many kinds, some of which are simple, while others are complicated with a malignant tend- ency. Mr. Abernathy lias attempted to form a classification of sarcomatous tumors, for the different species of which he has proposed names, deduced from the structure, which they exhibit on dissection. This gentleman has named the kind of swellings, which he first considers, Com- mon Vascular, or Organised Sarcoma. Under this title, Mr. Abernelhv includes all those tu- mors, which appear to be composed of the gela- tinous part of the blood, rendered more or less vas- cular by the‘growth of vessels through it. The w vessels which pervade this substance are, in differ- ent instances, either larger, or smaller; and more or less numerous; being distributed in their usual arborescent manner, without any describable pe- culiarity of arrangement. Perhaps all the varie- ties of sarcomatous tumors are at first of this nature. The structure under consideration, is met with not only in distinct tumors, but also in the testis, mamma, and absorbent glands. When a common vascular, or organized sarcoma has skin seem remarkably large, and their winding under the integuments excites notice. This kind of sarcoma is not at all tender, so that it may be freely handled, and also electrified, without giving pain. The tumor sometimes grows to such a size, that the skin bursts, the substance of the swelling sloughs out, and the disease is got rid of. However, this mode of cure is attended with such terrible local ap- pearances, and so much fever, Ac. that the removal of the disease with the knife is to be preferred. The second kind of sarcomatous tumor, no- ticed in Mr. Abernethy’s classification, is the Adipose Sarcoma. Every one, at all in the habit of seeing surgical diseases, must know, that fatty tumors are exceedingly common. Mr. Abernethy believes, that these swellings are formed in the same manner as others, viz. in the first instance, they were coagulable lymph, rendered vascular by the growth of vessels into it, and that their future structure depended on the particular power and action of the vessels. According to Sir Astley Cooper, “ they are not composed of fatty matter only; but the adipose membrane is increased, and their structure is similar, only somewhat more compact, to that of the fatty membrane in other parts of the body.” {Med. Chir. Trans. VoL 11, p. 440.) This fact is very much against the doctrine, which ascribes the origin of tumors to hydatids and their transformation. Adipose sarepmatnus tu- mors always have a thin capsule, formed by the simple condensation.of the surrounding cellular substance. It adheres very slightly to the swell- ings, and, chiefly by means of vessels, which pass through this membranous covering in order to enter the tumor- As Mr. Abernethy lias accurately described, the vessels are so small, and the connexion so slight, that, in removing the tumor, no dissection is requisite, as the ope- rator may easily put his fingers between tlie swelling and its capsule, so as to break the little vascular connexions, and entirely detach the disease. The substance of adipose tumors is never fur- 3 Y 2