DM OST takes place, occupying the whole circumference of the member. Its nature and situation are in some measure indicated by its hardness and depth. It is unequal and tuberculated, as it were. Pressure does not lessen its size, nor make the pain worse. The soft parts are still in their natural state. The tumor, however, grows more or less rapidly, and the lancinating pains become more severe. In time, the soft parts themselves inflame, and become painful. Some- times, the skin ulcerates, and, in this very un- common case, the sore presents a cancerous ap- pearance. Hectic symptoms are induced, the patient gradually lofees his strength, and, at length, falls a victim to the disease. The alteration, which the structure of the bones undergoes in the osteosarcoma, (says Boyer) deserves great attention. Most fre- quently, when the disease has made consider- able progress, and the tumor has existed a long while, the bony texture has disappeared more or less completely; in lieu of it, an homogeneous, greyish, yellowish, lard-like substance is found, the surface of a slice of which is smooth, much like that of a very hard white of egg, or old cheese, the consistence varying from that of cartilage to that of very thick bouillie. The surrounding soft parts, which have participated in the disease of the bones, are converted into a similar matter; muscles, tendons, periosteum, ligaments, vessels, cellular substance, all are confounded in the same homogeneous mass, and have undergone the same degeneration. In some examples, the disease is less ad- vanced : portions of the bone are then met with, whose texture and consistence are nearly natural, and which are merely somewhat enlarged. But, in proceeding towards the centre of the disease, the substance of the bone is found softened, and its consistence less than that of cartilage, still manifestly retaining, however, a fibrous texture; while, more deeply, it is converted into a lard- like substance, resembling (says Boyer) that of parts affected with carcinoma. In these tumors, cysts are often found, sometimes containing a fetid ichor,—sometimes a matter like clear bouil- lie; and, in certain cases, a quantity of semi-trans- parent, tremulous, gelatinous matter is found in the middle of the lard-like substance. Boyer re- cords an instance, in which nearly the whole hu- merus was changed into a gelatinous mass. (See Lemons stir les Mai. das Os, T. 1, Chap. 22.) The prognosis of this disease must always be unfavourable; for, it is equally incurable, and disposed to bring on "fatal consequences, whether Boyer’s opinion, concerning its being cancer of the bones, be true, or not. This author notices, that, even after amputation, the complaint almost always recurs. (P.591.) The only chancre of relief, however, obviously depends upon the pos- sibility and success of the operation. In the Traitc dcs Mol. Chir. T. 3, p. 5.94—605, Bover records two cases of osteosarcoma; one of the thigh ; the other, of the os innominatum. The first patient was saved by amputation. Some further particulars relative to osteosarcoma may be found in Boyer, Traite dcs Maladies Chir. T. 3 ; Haller's Element. Physiol. T. 8, p. 2, pag. 5; S. A. Kulmus, Diss. dc Exostosi Stcatornatodc Clavicular; Gcdtni. 1732; S. F. 11.. J i 1 f'io4 s*r\p4 nn4 f\win4\ p OXY Casum rariorevi ; Lips. 1752; S. G. Her- mann, Diss. dc Osteostcatomatc, Lips. 17G7: S. C. Planck, dc Ostcosarcosi : Tub. 1781, <5'c. B. C. Brodie in Pathol, and Surgical Ohs. on the Joints, p. 301. OZA£NA. (from cfy, a stench.) An ulcer situated in the nose, discharging a fetid puru- lent matter, and sometimes accompanied with caries of the bones. Some authors have sig- nified, by the term, an ill-conditioned ulcer in the antrum. The first meaning is that which mostly prevails. The disease is described, as coming on with a trifling tumefaction and redness about the ala nasi, accompanied with a discharge of mucus, with which the nostril becomes obstructed. The matter gradually assumes the appearance of pus, is most copious in the morning, and is sometimes attended with sneezing, and a little bleeding. The ulceration occasionally extends round the ala nasi to the cheek, but, seldom far from the nose, the ala of which, also, it rarely destroys. The ozama is often connected with scrophulous and venereal complaints. In the latter cases, portions of the ossa spongiosa often come away. After the complete cure of all venereal com- plaints, an exfoliating dead piece of bone will often keep up symptoms, similar to those of the oztena, until it is detached. Mr. Pearson re- marks, that the ozama frequently' occurs, as a symptom of the chachexia syphyloidea. It may perforate the septum nasi, destroy* the ossa spongiosa, and even the ossa nasi. Such mis- chief is now more frequently- the effect of the chachexia sy-phyloidea, than of lues venerea. The ozama must not be confounded with ab- scesses in the upper jawbone. (See Antrum.) The constitutional disease, on which the ozama generally depends, and which acts as the remote cause, must be relieved, before a cure of the local effect can be expected. The internal me- dicines, which may be necessary, are prepara- tions of mercury-, and antimony-; sarsaparilla, elm bark, Peruvian bark, muriated barytes, and muriate of lime. Sea-bathing may also do good, by- improving the health. The best external applications are said to be, preparations of copper, zinc, arsenic, mercury, the pulvis stern til at ori us, and diluted sulphuric acid. (Pearson's Princi- plcs of Surgery, Chap. 12. F. A. Mayer, Commentatio dc Ozcena, Frank. Del. op. II.) 0XYMURIAT1C ACID. Besides the nitrous and nitric acids, other medicines, con- taining a large proportion of oxygen, and easy of decomposition, have been recommended to l>e tried as remedies for the venereal disease; viz. oxygenated vinegar, oxalic acid, oxygenated muriate of potash, &c. (See Caldwell's Me- dical Theses, Pol. 1, p. 111.) But, perhaps, nothing has been put to the test of experiment with greater expectation of success, than the oxy-genated muriatic acid. Mr. Cruikshanks made a very- early trial of it in syphilitic .cases, and, as is alleged, with the utmost benefit. H* also employed the nitric acid, and the oxygenated muriate of potash, and found them eligible re- medies. The latter medicine was likewisfe given by M. Alyon in cases of chancre and secondary ulcers, who found the good effects from it, more expeditious, and more certain, than those of any mercurial preparation. (F.ssai sur les Pe°~ Ml!.. TK1!.A\rl„nh’r A.' fli'ltm*,,/*. ill!. 8W. 1 . t 1 <■ I 1 J >* 1 I i i > 1 j ! l t i i, l; I: