LITHOTOMY. 771 with his right hand, and elevating its extremity, lifted up the fundus of the bladder, while with the finders of his left hand he endeavoured to feel its extremity in the wound. As soon as the end of the instrument was perceived, it was taken hold of between the thumb and middle finger, the peri- toneum was carefully kept up out of the way, and the stilette was pushed by an assistant from within outwards, through the fundus of the bladder. The bladder being thus pierced, the operator in- troduced into a groove in the stilette a curved bistoury, with which he divided the front of the bladder, from above downwards, nearly to its neck. He then passed his fingers into the open- ing, and keeping up the bladder with them, with- drew the sonde d dard altogether. But, as it was useful that both his hands should be free, the bladder was prevented from slipping away by means of a suspensory hook held by an assistant as soon as the opening was found to be already ample enough, or had been enlarged to the neces- sary extent. Come next introduced the forceps, took out the stone, and passed a cannula, or elas- tic gum catheter through the wound in the peri- naeum into the bladder, so as to maintain a ready outlet for the urine, and divert this fluid from the wound in the bladder. In women, of course, the catheter was passed through the meatus urinarius. And, I ought here to observe, that Come thought the high operation especially advisable for females, because his experience had taught him, that the division, or dilatation, of the meatus urinarius was generally followed by an incontinence of urine. ( See Nouvelle Methode d'extraire la Pierre de la Vessiepar dessus le Pubis, <|-c. 8vo. Bruxelles, 1779.) Another modification of the high operation was suggested by Deschamps, who, instead of opening the membranous part of the urethra as Come did, perforated the bladder from the rectum, and through the cannula of the trocar effected the same objects, which the latter lithotomist accomplished by means of the incision in the membranous part of the urethra. Of the two plans, that devised by Come is unquestion- ably the best, because not attended with a double wound of the bladder; a thing which, I conceive, must always be highly objectionable. Dr. Souberbielle, who practises Corne’s me- thod, introduces a silver wire through the can- nula of the sonde a dard, and passes it through the wound made in the linea alba. The wire is then held while the sonde u dard is withdrawn, and a flexible gum-catheter is passed by means of the wire into the bladder through the wound in the membranous part of the urethra. The wire is now withdrawn, and the catheter is fixed with tapes, passed round the thighs and pelvis, and a bladder is tied to it for the reception of the urine. “ A piece of soft linen, half an inch wide, and six or eight inches long, is to be introduced, by means of a pair of forceps into the bottom of the bladder the object of which slip of linen is to carry off such urine, as may not escape through the catheter. Lint and light dressings are applied, and a bandage round the abdomen. Great care is to be taken to keep the catheter pervious, and, usually on the third day, the slip of linen nmy be taken out, and the wound closed with adhesive plaster. (See Carpuc's History of the High Operation, p. 171, 172.) Sir Everard Home made trial of Dr. Souber- bielle’s method in St. George’s Hospital, and though some difficulty and delay occurred in the operation, on account of the stone being encysted, the result was successful. Subsequently to this case, however, Sir Everard has invented and practised another method, which, as far as I can judge, is better than that of Come, or Souberbielle though its principles are the same. When it is considered, that in the operation of these last lithotomists, the neck of the bladder is not opened, and the catheter enters that receptacle through the pro- static portion of the urethra, it must be imme- diately obvious, that the incision in the perinreum cannot answer any material object, because a tube may be placed in the same position by passing it through the urethra from the orifice in the glans. The retainer, or bracelet, invented for keeping the cathe'ter in the bladder, in cases of enlarge- ment of the prostate gland, seemed to Sir Everard Home peculiarly applicable to the high operation, since it keeps the tube steadily in the natural canal, and renders the wound in the perinaeum un- necessary. Bracelets, for this purpose, extremely elastic, and producing no irritation, are sold by Mr. Weiss, of the Strand. They are furnished with small rings, to which the outer end of the catheter is fixed by means of string. Sir Everard Home performed his new opera- tion, for the first time, in St. George’s Hospital, on the 26th of May, 1820. “ An incision was made in the direction of the linea alba, between the pyramidales muscles, beginning at the pubes, and extending four inches in length: it was con- tinued down to the tendon. The linea alba was then pierced close to the pubes, and divided by a probe-pointed bistoury to the extent of three inches. The pyramidales muscles had a portion of their origin at the symphysis pubis detached to make room. When the finger was passed down under the linea alba, the fundus of the bladder was felt covered with loose, fatty cellular membrane. A silver catheter, open at the end, was now passed along the urethra into the bladder, and, when the point was felt by the finger in the wound, pressing up the fundus, a stilet, that had been concealed, was forced through the coats of the bladder, and followed by the end of the catheter. The stilet was then withdrawn, and the opening, through the fundus of the bladder, enlarged towards the pubes, by a probe- pointed bistoury, sufficiently to admit two fingers, and then the catheter was withdrawn. The fundus of the bladder was held up by one finger, and the stone examined by the forefinger of the right hand. A pair of forceps, with a net attached, was passed down' into the bladder, and the stone directed into it by the finger: the surface being very rough, the stone stuck upon the opening of tire forceps, and being retained there by the finger, was extracted. A slip of linen had one end introduced into the bladder, and the other was left hanging out of the wound, the edges of which were brought together by adhesive plaster. A flexible gum catheter, without the stilet, was passed into the bladder by the urethra, and kept there by an elastic retainer surrounding the penis. The patient was put to bed, and laid upon his side, in which position the urine escaped freely through the catheter.” As no blood had been lost in the operation, twelve ounces were taken 3 D 2