5-sa HARE-LIP. Notwithstanding the operation, as performed with the twisted suture, is opposed by an autho- rity of such weight as that of M. Louis, still it is the method most commonly practised. No modern surgeons doubt, that a hare-lip may be cured by means of adhesive plaster, and uniting bandages, quite as perfectly as with a suture; and all readily allow, that the first of these methods, as being more simple and less painful, would be preferable to the latter one, if it were equally sure of succeeding. Rut it is considered far more uncertain in its effect. To accomplish a complete cure, the parts to be united must be maintained in perfect contact, until they have contracted the necessary adhesion; and how can we always depend upon a bandage for keeping them from being displaced? What other means, besides a suture, affords in this respect such per- fect security? I shall first describe the operation, as usually done by surgeons of the present day with the twisted suture. The first thing is to examine, whether there is any adhesion of the lip to the gum ; and, if there be, to divide it with a knife. Some authors (S/iar/i) recommend the frtenulura, which attaches the lip to the gum, always to be divided: but, when the hare-lip is at some di- stance from this part, it will not be in the way of the operation, and need not be cut. On the other hand, when the fracnulum is situated in the centre of the division, it is clear that, in opera- ting, we must necessarily include it in the inci- sion, and it should therefore be divided before- hand, taking care not to encroach too much upon the gum, lest the alveolary process be laid bare ; nor too much upon the lip, because making it thinner would be unfavourable to its union. When one of the incisor teeth, opposite the fissure, projects forward, it must be drawn, lest it distend and irritate the parts, after they have been brought into contact. Sometimes, but particularly in cases in which there is a cleft in the bony part of the palate, a portion of the os maxillare superius forms such a projection, just in the situation of the fissure in the lip, that it would render the union very dif- ficult, if not impracticable. In this circumstance, the common plan has been to cut off the project- ing angles of bone with a strong pair of bone- nippers. The part> was then healed, and the operation for the hare-lip performed. Instead of cutting off the projection of bone, which is al- ways a painful measure, Desault used to employ simple compression, by which means, the pro- minence was usually reduced in a few weeks, and the opportunity afforded of operating for the cure of the hare-lip. (Xuvres Chir. par Bichat, T. 2, )>. 207.) Of course, the actual necessity for using bone-nippers, or even of having re- course to compression of the bony projection, will depend upon circumstances; for, if the pro- minence of bone be sharp and irregular, no sur- geon, I conceive, would hesitate about the re- moval of such inequalities, in preference to the trial of pressure. Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, has expressed to me his doubts whether cutting off the projections of the alveolary process, be ever necessary, as the pressure of the entire lip gradually diminishes the deformity. . ‘‘ I bad (says he) two very unseemly cases, with an im- mense division of the palate, together with a pro- jection of the alveolar process, which, with the incisor teeth, resembled the talons of a bird. A tubercular appendage of skin hung upon the base of the nose. By drawing the teeth, in the first case, very delicately, I avoided fracturing the bony projection. I then cut off one edge of the nasal appendage, and of the lip of the same side, and attached them together with two needles. The wound was sufficiently united in a week or ten days to allow the same operation on the other side. In less than three weeks, the boy was sent home quite well to the astonishment of the neigh- bourhood, where his frightful appearance made him an object of disgust and ridicule. I suc- ceeded in the other case, even without the ex- traction of the teeth. Beth the patients can now articulate labial sounds, retain their saliva, and are gradually losing the inconvenience of the passage of the mucus from the nose into the mouth, as the fissure is more contracted, and the projection by no means so disagreeable.” These facts should lessen the haste, with which certain operators proceed to cut off every projection of the alveolary process; for, a moderate prominence of bone without any sharp, irritating edges, or angles, will not hinder the success of the opera- tion; and even the propriety of removing teeth must entirely depend upon their being likeh-, by their direction, to irritate the lip, and disturb the union of the fissure. In the operation, the grand object is to make as smooth and even a cut as possible, in order that it may more certainly unite by the- first in- tention, and of such a shape, that the cicatrix may form only one narrow line. The edges of the fissure should, therefore, never be cut off with scissars, which constantly bruise the fibres which they divide, and a sharp knife is always to be preferred. The best plan is, either to place any flat instrument, such as a piece of horn, wood, or pasteboard, underneath one portion of the lip, and then holding the part stretched and supported on it, to cut away the whole of the callous edge; or else to hold the part with a pair of forceps, the under blade of which is much broader than the upper one: the first serves to support the lip ; the other contributes also to this effect, and, at the same time, serves as a sort of ruler in guiding the knife in an accurately straight line. When the forceps are preferred, the surgeon must of course leave on the side of the upper blade, just as much of the edge of the fissure as is to be removed, so that it can be cut off with one sweep of the knife. This is to be done on each side of the cleft, observing the rule, to make the new wound in straight lines, be- cause the sides of it can never be made to cor- respond without this caution. For in- stance, if the hare-lip had this shape, the incision of the edges must be con- tinued in straight lines, till they meet in the manner here represented. In short, tho two incisions are to be perfectly straight, and are to meet at an angle above, in order that the whole track of the> wound may be brought together, and united by the first intention. Two silver pins, made with steel points, nro next to be introduced through the edges of tlm