Sfi AMAUROSIS. frequent sensations, as if there were shining fiery objects before the eyes. With regard to the symptoms in epileptic pa- tients, in addition to the general effects above enumerated, this case of symptomatic amauro is distinguished by an untroubled, but very ex- panded pupil; considerable diminution of the motion of the iris; a dilated state of the pupil even under the stimulus of the strongest light, and tremulous motions of the eye-ball, which continue during life, after the epilepsy and amau- rosis arc cured ; .and the case is further charac- terized by amblyopia, which rarely increases to complete blindness. The following are described by Beer as the symptoms in patients affected with convulsions. As a symptomatic effect in convulsions, this amaurosis most frequently happens in children, they being more liable than adults to convulsions, especially during dentition. The first and most prominent symptom of this incomplete or com- plete amaurosis consists in an extremely violent convulsive rotation of the eye-ball, especially up- wards, not unfrequently attended with the most vio- lent convulsive motions of the eye-lids. The pupil is excessively dilated, and scarcely the least move- ment of the iris is distinguishable on exposing the eye to the strongest light. When the general twitchings are over, and only an amaurotic weak- ness of sight is left, strabismus occurs in both eyes in various directions, though the eyes very seldom deviate from the axis of vision in the di- rection towards the inner canthus. When the general convulsions happen frequently, and are violent and of long duration, the amaurotic weak- ness of sight usually changes into perfect blind- ness, in which the pupil, though it be regularly clear, and of a shining blackness, is greatly ex- panded, and the eyes constantly retain their faulty position and pendulum-like motion. The causes of this amaurosis are specified, as it were, in the title of this section; for, whatever tends to bring on hysteria, hypochondriasis, epi- lepsy, or convulsions, in an evidently nervous in- dividual, who either has had from birth weak, irritable eyes, or has gradually debilitated them by over-exertion, may give rise to this species of amaurosis. With respect to the prognosis, it is observed by Beer, that even when merely an amaurotic weakness remains, the prognosis is always seri- ous; but, it is naturally still more unfavourable, when the blindness is complete, and when the loss of sight has suddenly recurred after violent spas- modic, epileptic, or convulsive attacks, without such attacks themselves ever returning. Under these circumstances, Beer has not hitherto seen more than two instances of such blindness par- tially cured. Generally, some hope of recovery may be entertained, when the amblyopia, or even complete amaurosis, begins with these attacks, but always terminates with them, without leaving any serious impairment of vision. On the con- trary, it is a very bad sign, not only in regard to the removal of this symptomatic amaurosis, but likewise to the cure of the original disease, when the amaurosis invariably precedes these attacks, and lasts a considerable time after their cessation. As yet, Beer says he has not known any such pa- tients cured, either of their spasms, epilepsy, or convulsions, much less of their blindness : on the contrary, after three or four attacks, perfect amaurosis remains, and some of the patients die in one of these paroxysms. As this amaurosis is merely a symptomatic effect of the above general disorders, its removal must entirely depend upon the success with which their treatment is conducted. Were the blindness to continue, however, after the cure of the original disease, the surgeon could do nothing more than try an empirical mode of treatment, and ascertain what good could be effected with antispasmodic and tonic medicines. (Brer, Lthre von dtn Augcnkr. I . 2. p. 506‘—10.) 3. Of ike symptomatic, amaurosis from infarc- tion, obstruction, anil induration of the abdominal viscera. The following is Beer’s account of the com- plaint : the extremely slow formation of this amaurosis gives it something characteristic, for during ten, twenty, and more years, the patients may have a continually increasing weakness of sight, without becoming completely blind, or ren- dered quite incapable of following their business. The pupil is invariably found to be dilated, of a pale-blackish colour, though very transparent; the somewhat convex iris loves in the varying degrees of light, but very inertly ; its pupillary edge is not circular, as in the health}' state, but is drawn into an angle sometimes at one point, sometimes at another; and not only the tur- gescence of the blood vessels of the conjunctiva, but a reddish yellowish rather smutty tinge of the whole white of the eye, are evident to the most common observer. As the weakness of sight in- creases, the patient sees all objects through a thick mist, which, when blindness approaches, seems for a day or two as black as soot, and, for another day or two, of a light grey colour. Hence the patient usually talks of the white and black days. In most patients, those phenomena at length take place, which have been-describe*! in speaking of the vivas interruptus. The. purple lips, and wan countenance, correspond to the state of the eyes. A stupifying dull head-aeh, affecting the whole head, and, while any vision is retained, depriving the patient of all inclination to employ his eyes or intellects; a constantly disturbed state of the digestive functions; and, generally, the whole host of complaints connected with the. morbid state of the abdominal viscera, are the never-failing companions of this amau- rosis, which, however, does not invariably end in complete blindness. As for the etiology of tliis species of amaurosis, every thing that is calculated to induce the above- mentioned morbid state of the abdominal viscera must naturally be taken into calculation ; for the affection of the eye is but a symptomatic effect of a general disorder of the chylopoietic organs. Studious persons, and other individuals, who lead sedentary lives, and give immoderate application, or who live upon unwholesome food, are par- ticularly subject to this kind of blindness. How- ever, in duly contemplating its causes, attention must be paid to the almost incessant determina- tion of blood to the head and eyes, prevailing in a greater cr lesser degree, and also to the very trou- blesome hemorrhoidal complaints, as two import- ant circumstances, arising from habitual costivc- ncss, inseparable from the existing state of the