ULCERATION. 1055 :s, will not be in danger of wounding unin- tionallv any large vessel. When the surface he tumor has been cleared, but the base of it /et firmly attached, Langenbeck commences separation on the side, which presents the t risk, that is, where the least considerable >u-vessels are, and thence he proceeds by de- ;s towards the most hazardous side. In ,ur of this method, he offers the following ..siderations: if, by chance, an artery, requi- • r a ligature, should be cut, it can now be more ly secured, as the base of the tumor is already • ;ly detached. The loosened swelling may be drawn away from the large vessels with hand, or a tenaculum. Langenbeck never . oduces the knife deeply, when there are large >d-vessels there, but pulls the swelling out- d, and then divides the cellular substance, • 5 stretched, which is situated upon the already osed portion of the tumor. In this manner, swelling can always be drawn more and more ly from the vessels, until, at last, there is no ger of wounding them. By attending to se principles, Langenbeck has succeeded in loving many very large tumors from the k, where nearly all the muscles of that part •e exposed in the dissection, and the carotid uded. After one of these operations, not . y the stytoid process could be felt, but all the scles, originating from it, could be distinctly i. (Bill, filr die Chir. B. 2, p. 312, Sfc. no. Gottingen., 1808.) C. G. Stcntzcl, De atomatibus in principio Aortce repertis et ; Aids in gencre excrcsccntibus. Wittersb. !. 3. J. J. Blende, Novum Systema Tunio- rum, quo hi inorbi in sua genera ct species rediguntur. Pars prior. 12mo. Vienna 1767. Wm. Ogle, Letter concerning the Cure of Encysted and other kinds of Tumors without the Knife. 8no. Lond. 1754. Pli. Tr. Wul- thcr, iiber die angeboihrncn Fctthautgcschwul- sten und undere Bildungsfelder. fol. Lands- hut. 1814. J. P. Wcidmann, Annotatio dc Stcatomatibus. 4to. Maguntiaci, 1817. W. Hey, Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 517, Ed. 2, 8vo. Lund. 1810. Allan Burns, Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Ncclc, 8uo. Edin. 1811: this work contains much valuable information, respecting the extirpation of swellings about the neck. Schreger Chirur- gischc Versuchc, B. 1, p- 297 ; Ueber Lipoma und Extirpatio derselben. 8vo. Nurnberg. 1811. John Baron, An Inquiry, illustrating the nature of Tuberculatcd Accretions of Se- rous Membranes, and the Origin of Tubercles and Tumors in different textures of the Body. 8vo. Lond. 1819. Sir Astley Cooper, Sur- gical Essays, Part 2. C. J. M. Langenbeck, Bibl.fur die Chir. B. 2, p. 312. G'dtt. 1808. Also Gcschichtc cincr grossen Speckgcschwidst wclchermit dem Unterkicfer so fest zusammen- hing, dass die Trcnnung mit dcr Sage ver- richtct werden music: Ncue Bibl. B. 1, p. 295. 12mo. Hannover. 1817. B. II. Ja- cobsen, de Tumoribus Cysticis, 4to. Jena:, 1792. C. G. Ludwig Monita de exscindcn- dis Tumoribus tunica inclusis. 4 to. Lips. 1758. TYMPANUM. For an account of its dis- eases, see Ear. j T LCEIIATION, is the process, by which I ) sores, or ulcers, are produced in animal ■ lies. In this operation, the lymphatics appear t be, at least, as active as the blood-vessels. ulcer is a chasm formed on the surface of the ! y by the removal of parts back into the sy- J n by the action of the absorbents. At first, it | f be difficult to conceive how a part of the | v can be removed by itself; but there is not i 'e difficulty in conceiving this, than how the | j y can form itself. Both facts are equally B 1 confirmed. When it becomes necessary, ; : some whole living parts should be removed, f evident, says Mr. Hunter, that nature, in Isr to effect this object, must not only confer tew activity on the absorbents; but, must m the part to be absorbed into a state, which ds to this operation. The absorption of >le parts in disease, arises from five causes; ssure; irritation of stimulating substances; kness; inutility of parts; death of them. 'inter on Inflammation, Sfc. p. 442—446.) flceration takes place much more readily in * cellular, and adipose substance, than in mus- » tendons, ligaments, nerves, and blood- !sels. Hence, in the progress of pus to the lace of the body, ulceration often takes a cir- ous course for the purpose of bringing the matter to the skin. The skin itself, also, being highly organized, considerably retards the burst- ing of abscesses. On the same account, when ulceration is spreading, the edges of the skin hang over the ulcerated surface. (Hunter, p. 447.) New formed parts, such as cicatrices, callus, and all adventitious new matter, such as tumors, readily admit of being absorbed. The adventi- tious matter, indeed, is more prone to be ab- sorbed, than that which is a substitute for the old. Mr. Hunter explained this circumstance on the principle of weakness. When ulceration takes place, in consequence of the death of an external part, it occurs first on the outer edge, between the dead and living sub- stance. Abscesses constantly make their way to the surface of the body by ulceration; but, ns some textures more readily admit of being absorbed, than others, the matter often follows a circuitous course, before it can arrive at the skin. (Hunter, p. 448, 449.) A tumor, when it makes equal pressure in every direction around, will only make its way in an external course, because what Mr. Hunter termed interstitial absorption happens in no other direction. (P- 449.)