GONORIUICEA. 519 lkiitv alone; and, Mr. Hunter says, the less Drinking freely of diluting liquors may, per- bomnes are used, when the parts arc in an in- haps, have a sedative effect, as it in part removes flamed state, the better, though lie never saw any some of the causes of irritation, by rendering the bad effects from them, when applied with caution, urine less stimulating to the bladder, when the ' The fluid applications, or injections, in use, irritation is there, and to the urethra in its pas- are innumerable; and as gonorrhoea frequently sage through it. Diluting drinks may possibly weu with so manv of various kinds, we may lessen the susceptibility of irritation. The ve- hiter, that such complaints would, in time, get getable mucilages of certain seeds and plants, well of themselves. However, there cannot be and the emollient gums, are recommended. Mr. a doubt, that injections often have an immediate Hunter does not entertain much opinion of their effect on the symptoms, and hence must have efficacy, though some of his patients told him, power; though the injection, which possesses the that they experienced less uneasiness iri making greatest power, is unknown. As injections are water, when their drink was impregnated with only temporary applications, they must be used mucilaginous substances. often, especially when found useful, and not of Emollient injections are the most proper, an irritatino- kind. when the inflammation is very great; and they Mr. Hunter divides injections into four probably act by first simply washing away the kinds, the irritating, sedative, emollient, and matter, and then leaving a soft application to the astringent. part, so as to be singularly serviceable, by less- irritating injections, of whatever kind, act in ening the irritating effects of the urine. Indeed, this disease upon the same principle; that is, by practice proves this; for a solution of gum ara- producing an irritation of another kind, which bic, milk and water, or sweet oil, will often lessen ought to*be greater than the venereal; by which the pain, and other symptoms, when the more means the venereal is destroyed and lost, and the active injections have done nothing, or seemed disease cured, although the pain and discharge to do harm. may still be kept up by the injection : effects, The irritation at the orifice of the urethra, is however, which will soon go off, when the in- frequently so great, that the point of the syringe jection is laid aside. In this way bougies also cannot be suffered to enter. In this ease, no perform a cure. Most of the irritating injec- injection should be used till the inflammation has tions have an astringent effect, and prove simply abated ; but, in the mean while, fomentations may astringent when mild. be employed. Irritating injections should never be used Astringent injections act by lessening the dis- vvhen there is already much inflammation ; espe- charge. They should only be used towards the cially in constitutions which are known to be in- latter end of the disease, when it has become capable of bearing much irritation; nor should mild. But, if the disease should begin mildly, they be used when the inflammation has spread they may be used at the very beginning; for, beyond the specific distance ; nor when the bv gradually lessening the discharge, without in- testicles are tender; nor when, upon the dis creasing the inflammation, we complete the cure, charge ceasing quickly, these parts have become and prevent a continuance of the discharge called sore; nor when the perinseum is very susceptible gleet. They will have an irritating quality, if of inflammation, and especially if it formerly used strong, and hence increase the discharge, should have suppurated; nor when there is a instead of lessening it. Mr. Hunter’s experi- tendency in the bladder to irritation, known by ence did not teach him, that one astringent was the frequency of making water. much better than another. The astringent In mild cases, and in constitutions which are gums, as dragon's blood, the balsams, and the not irritable, such injections often succeed, and turpentines, dissolved in water; the juices of remove the disease almost immediately. The many vegetables, as oak bark, Peruvian bark, practice, however, ought to be attempted with tormentil root, and, perhaps, all the metallic caution, and nut, perhaps, till milder methods salts, as green, blue, and white vitriols; the salts have failed. Two grains of the hydrargyrus of mercury, and also alum: probably all act muriatus, dissolved in eight ounces of distilled much in the same way; though the mere chang- water, form a very good irritating injection ; but ing of an injection is often efficacious. The an injection of only half this strength may be local use of the nitric acid, properly diluted, has used, when it is not intended to attempt a cure been commended by Vigaroux, Toepelmann, and so quickly. If, however, the injection, even in others, as a safe remedy for the stoppage of go- that proportion, gives considerable pain in its norrheea. (See Pearson on the Eptcts if various application, or occasions a great increase of pain Articles in the Cure of Lues Venerea, p. 205, in making water, it should be further diluted. E.7. 2 ; and Neiure Erfuhr. Uher zweekm. Sedative injections will always be of service, Behdl. venerisen. Schleimausjiusse, tyc. Leipz. when the inflammation is considerable, and they 180!).) are very useful in relieving the pain. Perhaps, The external applications are poultices, and fo- thc best sedative is opium, as well when given mentations, which can only be useful when the by the mouth, or anus, as when applied to the prepuce, glans, and orifice of the urethra, are in- part affected, in the form of an injection. But, flamed. even opium will not act as a sedative in all con- Since Mr. Hunter’s time, many surgeons have stitutions, and parts; but, on the contrary, often been in the habit of keeping the penis, in the has opposite effects, producing great irritability, incipient infiammatoiy stage of gonorrhoea, co- Bcad may be reckoned a sedative, so far as it vered with linen, continually wot with the abates inflammation, while, at the same time, it liquor plumbi acetalis dilulus; a practice which may act its a gentle astringent. Fourteen grains is certainly both rational and beuiticial. Mr. of acetate of lead, in jjviij. of distilled water, make Abemelhv, in his Lectures on Surgery, speaks a good sedative astringent injection. in favour of this method. And some surgeons.