HEAD. !>75 mg the paralysis being always on the side ol the body opposite that on which the brain is compressed) agrees with what is generally le- marked by other surgical writers. (See Larreys Mem. de'chir. Mil. T. -t, p. 180; Hennen s Principles, p. 301, Ed. 2, #C.) Yet, at the IIotel-Dieu, at Paris, says Bichat, extravasation has very often been found both on the side af- fected witli paralysis, and the opposite one; or else the blood was generally diffused, while the paralysis was local. ((Euvres Chic, dc Desault, T. 2, p. 27.) The preceding class of symptoms only informs us, that the brain is suffering compression; and leaves us quite in the dark, respecting several other very important circumstances. “We not only have no certain infallible rule, whereby to distinguish, what the pressing fluid is, or where it is situated, but we are. in many instances absolutely incapable of knowing, -whether the symptoms be occasioned by any fluid at all; for, a fragment of bone broken off from the internal table of the cranium, and making an equal de- gree of pressure, will produce exactly the same complaints(Pott.) In detailing the sym- ptoms of pressure from blood, I took particular notice of the patient being at first generally stunned by the blow ; of his gradually regaining his senses, and of his afterwards relapsing into a state of insensibility again. The interval of sense, which thus occurs, was pointed out by Petit as a circumstance of the greatest con- sequence in elucidation of the nature of the case. “ A concussion, and an extravasation (as Mr. Pott observes' are very distinct causes of mis- chief, though not.always very distinguishable. “ M. Le Dran, and others of the modern French writers, have made a very sensible and just distinction between that kind and degree of loss of sense which arises from a mere commotion of the brain, and that which is caused by a mere extravasation, in those instances, in which the time of the attack, or appearance of such sym- ptoms are different, or distinct. The loss of sense, which immediately follows the violence, say they, is most probably owing t<? a commotion ; but that which comes on after an interval of time has past, is most probably caused by extravasation. “This distinction is certainly just and good, as far as it will go. .That degree of abolition or diminution of sense, which immediately attends or follows the blow or fall, and goes off again without the assistance of art, is in all probability occasioned by the sudden shake or temporary de- rangement of the contents of the head ; and the $ame kind of symptoms recurring again some time after they had ceased, or not coming on until some time has passed from the receipt of the violence, do most probably proceed from the breach of a Vessel within or upon the brain. But unluckily, we have it not very often in our power to make this exact distinction. An extravasation is often made so immediately, and so largely, at the instant of the accident, that ail sense and motion are instantaneously lost, and never again return. And it also sometimes happens, that although an extravasation may possibly not have °een made at the moment of the accident, and the first complaints may have been owing to com- motion merely, yet a quantity of fluid having being shed from its proper vessels very soon alter the accident, and producing its proper sym- ptoms, before those caused by the commotion have had time to go off!, the similarity of the effects of each of these different causes is such, as to deprive us of all power of distinguishing between the one and the other, or of determining with any tolerable precision, to which of them such symptoms as remain are really owing.’’ As Bichat remarks, a man meets with a fall; a slight concussion of the brain is the conse- quence, and the patient is instantly stunned. The effects of concussion gradually subside, but an extravasation takes place, and the loss of the senses continues, though from a different cause. Here, according to the principles of Petit, the case would be set down as concussion ; yet, things are quite the contrary, the extravasation now keep!ng up the symptom, which was only temporarily produced by concussion. In many instances also the effects of concussion and ex- travasation exist together, and then how is a sur- geon to judge of the nature of the case? (See CEuvres Chir. dc Desault, T.‘2,p. 25.) “When an extravasation of any kind is made, either upon or within the brain, if it be in such quantity, or so situated, as to disorder the oeco- nomy of the animal, it always produces such dis- order, by making an unnatural pressure on the parts where it lies. The nature and degree of the symptoms, hereby produced, are various and different in different persons, according to the kind, quantity, and situation of the pressing fluid. Sometimes it is mere fluid blood, sometimes blood in a state of coagulation, sometimes it is a clear lymph, and at others blood and water are found mixed together; each of these is found either simple or mixed in different situations, that is, between the skull and dura mater, between the dura and pia mater, or in the natural cavities of the brain called its ventricles, and sometimes, in cases of great violence, they are found at the same time in all these different parts. Sometimes a considerable quantity is shed instantly, at the time of the accident; and sometimes the breach by which the effusion is made is so circumstanced, both as to nature and situation, that it is at first very small, and increases by faster or slower degrees. In the former, the symptoms are gene- rally immediate and u gent, and the extravasation is of the bloody kind ; in the latter, they are fre- quently slight at first, appear after some little interval of time, increase gradually till they become urgent or fatal, and are in "such* case generally occasioned by extravasated * lymph. So that although the immediate appearance of bad symptoms does most certainly imply mis- chief of some kind or other, yet, on the other hand, no man ought to suppose his patient free from hazard, either because such symptoms do not shew themselves at first, or because they appear to be but slight: those which come on late, or appearing slight at first, increase gradu- ally. being full as much to be dreaded as to con- sequencers the more immediately alarming ones; with this material difference between them, that the one may bo the consequence ol a mere con- cussion of the brain, and may by means of quietude and evacuation go quite oil; whereas,