087 staphyloma. ei there is no effectual means of restraining the progress of the complaint, and removing the de- formity, but cutting away the staphyloma, and when the place is healed, an artificial eye may be applied. Celsus thus expresses himself on the subject of this operation :—Curatio duplex cst. Altera ud ipsas radices per medium transuere acu, duo Una ducente, delude alterius lini duo capita ex superiore parte, alterius ex inferiorc adstrin- .gerc inter se qua paulatim secando id ex- 's/dan t. Altera in summa parte cjus ad len- ticulcc magnitudinem exscindere; delude spo- dium, ant cadmium infricare. Utrolibct autem facto, album ovi lana excipiendum, ct imponendum; posteaque vaporc aquae caliche jfovendus oculus, ct Isnibus medicaments un- .gurndns est. De Medicina, lib. 7, cap. 7. Though, says Scarpa, the first plan, or that of the ligature, is at present abandoned, the majo- rity of surgeons still persevere in passing a needle and ligature through the lower part of the staphyloma, not for the purpose of tying or constricting the tumor, it is true, but of making a noose, in order to fix the eye conveniently, when the staphyloma is to be cut off in a circu- lar manner. This use of a needle and ligature, which I observe, is sanctioned by Mr. Travers, {Synopsis, $c. p. 285), is strongly disapproved c of by Scarpa. With regard to the second method of remo- ■ ving the staphyloma, or that of excision, Scarpa thinks that sufficient attention has not hitherto 1 been paid to what Celsus has written on this sub- ject. In fact, Celsus docs not forbid cutting . away the staphyloma, by a circular incision at its base, as is practised at the present day, but says that this operation is to be done in the centre, or conical point of the tumor, and that as much of this part of the staphyloma is to be cut away as will equal a lentil in size: In summa, parte cjus ad lenticuloc magnitudinem. exscindere. Scarpa remarks, that the great importance of this precept of Celsus, in regard to the success- ful treatment of the staphyloma, can only be duly appreciated by surgeons who have often had occa- sion to compare the advantages of Celsus’s doc- trine, with the serious inconveniences whichjesult from the common practice of cutting away the staphyloma circularly at its base ; and with the evils produced by a semicircular section, com- prehending the sclerotica, in Woolhouse’s man- ner, always followed by acute inflammation of the eyeball and eyelids, violent pains in the head, restlessness, spasms, copious, and some- times gangrenous, suppurations of the eye and eyelids. The patient being seated, Scarpa directs an assistant to support his head properly; then taking in his hand a knife, similar to what is used in the extraction of the cataract, he passes the instrument completely across the staphyloma, at the distance of one line and a half, or two lines, from the centre or apex of the tumor, from the external towards the internal angle of the eye, and, by passing the knife forward m the same direction, just as is done in the extraction of the cataract, he makes a semi- f circular incision downwards, in the most pro- minent part of the tumor. Having done this, ue takes hold of the segment of tiic staphy- it* ' • ' loma with the forceps, and turning the edge of the knife upward, he completes the circular re- cision of the apex of the tumor, in such a way that the detached portion is one, two, three, or four lines in diameter, according to the size of the staphyloma. As a portion of the iris adhering to the cornea, from the very commencement of the disease, is commonly included in this section of the pointed part of the tumor, no sooner is the circular division of the apex of the staphy- loma made, than the crystalline, or its nucleus, issues from the eye, followed by a portion of the vitreous humour. In consequence of this eva- cuation, the eyeball often diminishes in such a degree, that it can be covered by the eyelids, to which Scarpa immediately applies a pledget of dry lint, supported by a retentive bandage. When the eye and eyelids begin to be pain- ful, inflame, and swell, as they generally do, on the fourth day, the eye is to be covered with a bread and milk poultice. When things pro- ceed in a regular manner, the swelling of the eyelids subsides about the seventh, or ninth day, and purulent matter is seen on the poul- tice, blended with the vitreous humour. The matter afterwards becomes thick and whitish, the patient feels great relief, and the eyeball shrinks and sinks into the orbit. At this period, on gently separating the eye- lids, the conjunctiva is found swelled, and reddish, and the margin of the wound seems like a whitish circle. This is, usually detached on the twelfth or fourteenth day after the operation, when the edge of the surface, from which the staphyloma was cut, becomes red, contracts, and daily diminishes, so that, at last, the wound is entirely closed. There only remains in the centre of the cornea, for a few days, a small fleshy prominence, resembling a little reddish papilla, which, after being touched a few times with the argentum nitratum, contracts, and heals. So far, says Scarpa, are alarming symptoms from following this operation, that in a great number of cases the surgeon is even obliged, several days afterwards, to stimulate the eye on which it has been performed, in order to make it inflame, partly by leaving it a long while unco- vered, and exposed to the air, partly by enlar- ging the circular recision, made in the centre of the staphyloma, of which another circular por- tion, half a line broad, is removed, in order to facilitate the more abundant discharge of the humours, and the ingress of air into the cavities of the eye, which are so backward to inflame. As soon as inflammation has invaded the interior of the eye, and suppuration has taken place, the rest of the cure regularly follows under the use of topical emollients, and is soon completed with all possible mildness. It should be particularly recollected, that Scarpa means the foregoing practice, for inveterate cases of staphyloma, where the eyesight is totally lost, and the projection of the diseased cornea produces serious annoyance. Under other cir- cumstances, the method can hardly he admissible. Amongst others, Dr. Vetch particularly objects to the removal of the apex of the tumor, as de- structive of all chance of the recovery of a de- gree of vision ; a consideration, however, which would not exist in the hopeless eases spoken of