HERNIA. 6:17 Anxious that this work should be strictly im- partial, I next proceed to relate what has been more recently urged against the employment ot the ligature for the cure of the umbilical hernia in children. The incessant care that a bandage requires, cither to keep it clean, or make it always keep up the proper degree of pressure, renders its em- ployment difficult in the children of the poorer classes. Scarpa expresses his opinion, that “ this was what induced Desault to revive the operation for the umbilical hernia by the ligature, nearly such as is described by Celsus, an opera- tion (continues Scarpa), which, a long while since, and for good reasons, was altogether abandoned. Celsus has sufficiently described the particulars of it: (Lib. 7, Cup. 14>) lie states, that the tumor is sometimes to be simply tied, and that, in other instances, its base is to have a needle and double ligature introduced through it, in order that it may be embraced al- most in the same way as a staphyloma is tied. But, amongst the causes, which contra-indicate this operation, he mentions so many circum- stances, in relation to age, constitution, diseases of the skin, Ac. that he seems to consider the eases, in which it may be practised with success, as very few. The same reflections were made by several other ancient surgical writers, espe- cially, by Fabricius ab Aquapendente. Desault himself has put some restrictions to the employ- ment of the ligature, since he observes, with his usual candour, that this method does not radi- cally cure the umbilical hernia of children, ar- rived at the age of four years ; that it is indis- pensable, as Celsus inculcates, to employ a needle and double ligature, when the base of the tumor is very large; and, lastly, that, even in the voungest children, a radical cure cannot be ef- fected by the ligature, unless a methodical com- pression of the navel, by means of a bandage, be kept up immediately after the operation, and for two or three months. It is perhaps to the omis- sion of this last means, that a relapse is to be ascribed in several of the children operated upon by Desault. “ Desault avoit reuiis cn vigucur' la ligature iombte en desuetude. II s’abusoit tur sa valeur; ct il nest pas difficile d’en eon- noitre la cause. Tons les enfans rju'il optroit d V llbtel-Dieu sortnient gueris ct rip revenoient plus: on regardoit alors commc radicalc une gu&ruon momentmice." (Richcrand, AToso- graphie Chir. T. 2, p. 453.) I have carefully watched (says Scarpa) the immediate effects, and the more or less remote consequences of tying the umbilical hernia, either simply, or by means of a needle and double ligature; and, after a considerable number of such cases, I believe I can assert, that this operation, howsoever per- formed, is not always exempt from grave and sometimes dangerous accidents. I can also add, that it never procures a truly radical cure, un- less the cicatrix, occasioned by it in the umbili- cal region, be submitted for some months to a methodical and uninterrupted compression. Il is not so uncommon, as some surgeons pretend, to see arise after the application of the ligature, a fever attended with symptoms of most violent irritation, and acute sufferings, which cause in- cessant crying, and sometimes convulsions. The ulcer, which is produced by the detachment of the swelling, is always very large and difficult to heal. Every now and then it becomes pain- ful, and emits fungous granulations, even though dressed with dry applications. “ Latterly, it has been explained by a cele- brated surgeon, (Paletta Memor. del' Institute, Tom. Part 1.) that the umbilical vein and the suspensory ligament of the liver, being included in the ligature of the umbilical hernia, the inflam- mation, which originates in these parts may, per- haps, in certain cases, be communicated to the * liver, so as to put the child’s life in great danger. Vv hen, in consequence of the ligature, symptoms of violent irritation come on, they are ordinarily attributed to certain individual circumstances, such as extreme sensibility, or a particular dispo- sition to spasm. Hence, it is believed, that they should be considered as exceptions, which do not exclude the general rule, and prove nothing against the utility of the operation. But, how (says Scaspa) can the surgeon ascertain the ex- istence, or nonexistence of these individual dis- positions, in the children, upon which he is to operate? Assuredly, those subjects, in which I have had occasion to notice the above accidents, enjoyed, before the operation, perfect health in every respect. “ Whatever process be adopted for tying the umbilical hernia, it is evident, that the tumor can only be constricted as far as a little way on this side of the aponeurotic ring of the umbilicus, whence, it follows, that the integuments must al- ways remain prominent and relaxed for a certain extent, at the front and circumference of this opening. Also, after the separation of the strangulated portion, there necessarily remains, under the cicatrix, a portion of the hernial sac, and of the loose integuments, which covered it; and as the cicatrix itself never acquires sufficient firmness to resist the impulse of the viscera, which tend to insinuate themselves into the re- mains of the hernial sac, the hernia sooner or later reappears, and, in a short time, becomes larger, than it was before the operation. If the subject is a little girl, it may be apprehended, that the first pregnancy will cause a recurrence of the hernia ; for, it is known, that, during ges- tation, the external-cicatrix of the umbilicus is considerably distended, and much disposed to give way.” Pott has seen terrible accidents caused by the rupture of the cicatrix at the navel, during preg- nancy. (Chirurg. Works, Vol. 2, p. 16'9.) It is true that according to this writer, this cica- trix was not the consequence of a hernia, but rather of an abscess in the umbilical region, which abscess had formerly been opened with a bistoury; yet, observes Scarpa, it would not be impossible to raise doubts upon this conjecture. Lastly, after the separation of the tumor, there always remains, between the aponeurotic ring of the navel, and the integuments, a small cavity, formed by the neck of the hernial sac; a cavity, into which , the viscera begin to insinuate them- selves after the operation, so ns to hinder the complete contraction of the umbilical ring. The demonstration of what I have advanced is, in some measure to be found, in the old method of operating for the Inguinal hernia, not in a strangulated state, by the ligature of the hernial sac and spermatic cord. Most of the hernia?,