1150 VENEREAL DISEASE. in consequence of the surface, on which the sores are liable to form, being much larger. As Mr. Hunter observes, chancres are occasionally situ- ated on the edge of the labia; sometimes on the outside of these parts; and even on the perine- um. When the sores are formed on the inside of the labia or nymphae, they can never dry, or scab; but, when they are externally situated, the matter may dry on them, and produce a scab, just as happens, with respect to chancres situated on the scrotum, or body of the penis. Mr. Hunter remarks, that the venereal mat- ter from these sores is apt to run down the pe- rineum to the anus, and excoriate the parts, espe- cially, about the anus, where the skin is thin, and where chancres may be thus occasioned. Chancres have been noticed in the vagina; but, Mr. Hunter suspected, that they were not original ones ; but, that they had spread to this situation from the inside of the labia. Before any of the virus has been taken up by the absorbents, and conveyed into the circula- tion, a chancre is entirely a local affection. From the Hunterian doctrines, however, it would appear, that absorption must generally soon fol- low the occurrence of the sore; and all the mo- dern opinions, concerning the nature of ulcera- tion itself, would lead to the same inference. When no secondary symptoms take place after the cure of chancre without mercury, I believe few surgeons of the present day would attempt to account for the fact by the hypothesis of the matter not having been absorbed; and, this ob- servation is made, with every disposition on my part to express my assent to the truth of another circumstance, viz. that some persons appear much more susceptible of the effects of the ve- nereal disease, than other individuals. It is re- marked by Mr. Hunter, that the interval, be- tween the application of the poison, and its effects upon the parts, is uncertain ; but, that, on the whole, a chancre is longer in appearing, than a gonorrhoea. However, the nature of the parts affected makes some difference. When a chancre occurs on the fraenum, or at the termination of the prepuce, in the glans, the disease in general comes on earlier ; these parts being more easily affected, than either the glans penis, common skin of this organ, or the scrotum. He adds, that, in some cases, in which both the glans and prepuce were contaminated from the same appli- cation of the poison, the chancre made its ap- pearance earlier on the latter part. Mr. Hun- ter knew of some instances, in which chancres appeared twenty-four hours after the application of the matter; and others, in which an in- terval of seven weeks, and even two months elapsed, between the time of contamination and that, when the chancre commenced. However here, as in almost'all other statements about this perplexing subject, we never know with cer- tainty, that the writer has sufficient grounds for the assumed fact, that it is only one kind of poi- son, which is spoken of. TREATMENT OF CHANCRES. It was one of Mr. Hunter’s opinions, that the ulceration, arising from venereal inflammation, generallv, if not always, continues, till cured by chancre spreads, it is always attacking new ground, so as to produce a succession of irrita- tions, and hinder the disease from curing itself. It was no doubt the foregoing opinion of Mr. Hunter, which formed the authority for the po- sition, which was always forcibly insisted upon in the surgical lectures, which 1 attended some years ago in London, viz. that all venereal com- plaints, when not counteracted by remedies, in- variably grow progressively worse and worse. But, modern experience apprises us, that this doctrine is 'far from being correct. As I have noticed in the foregoing pages, Mr. Fergusson assures us, that, in Portugal, the disease in its primary state amongst the natives is curable without mercury, and by simple topical treat- ment ; that the antisyphilitic woods, combined with sudorifics, are an adequate remedy for con- stitutional symptoms; and that the virulence of the disease has there been so much mitigated, that, after running a certain course (commonly a mild one) through the respective orders of parts, according to the known laws of its pro- gress, it cxlumsts itself, and ceases spontaneously. (See Med. and Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. ‘1—5.) In the third edition of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, it was sufficiently proved, from several conclusions drawn from the writings of Mr. Pearson, (0/;.v. on the Effects of Various Articles in the Cure of Lues Venerea,) that venereal sores might be benefited, and even healed, under the use of several inert insignificant medicines. And, as I have previously explained, the possibility of curing chancres and other venereal complaints, without mercury, was long since remarked by Dr. Clutterbuek, who thence very justly inferred, that the healing of a sore without this remedy was no test, that it was not venereal. (See Remarks on the Opinions of the late John Hunter. 1799.) But, although the whole history of the vene- real disease, and of the various articles of the materia medica, if carefully reflected upon, must have led to the same conclusion, the truth was never placed in such a view as to command the general belief of all the most experienced sur- geons in this, and other countries of Europe. I do not mean to say, that the truth was not seen and remarked by several of the older writers; for, that it was so any man may con- vince himself by referring to several works, quoted in the course of this article. But, it is to be understood, all indecision could never be renounced, as long as prejudices interfered with the only rational plan which could be adopted, with the view of bringing the question to a final settlement; I mean experiments on a large and impartial scale, open to the observation of nu- merous judges, yet under such control as in- sured the rigorous trial of the practice. Nor could such investigation be so well made by any class of practitioners as the army surgeons, whose patients are numerous, obliged to follow strictly the treatment prescribed, without any power of going from hospital to hospital, or from one surgeon to another, as caprice may dictate, or of eluding the observation of the medical attendants after a seeming recovery. And, here I must take the opportunity of stating, that, as i l i I i jr j If i § c f i . I | t r & ft to r | I Jr ; i(- • '•: ’ !»-.; la- • ft*.