CATARACT. 317 mends overv kind and degree of pressure to be cause is an undue application of pressure. All taken from the eye, before the knife has com- violent pressure is quite unnecessary for forcing pletely cut its way through the cornea. And, as out the cataract, when the wound in the cornea is soon as the knife has proceeded sufficiently low to sufficiently large. When the wound is too small, secure the iris from being wounded, the operator it should be enlarged as above directed. If pres- should not onlv take heed, that bis own lingers do sure be continued at all after the cataract is ex- not touch the eye, but should also direct the as- tracted, the capsule of the vitreous humor will sistant, who supports the upper lid, to remove his certainly be ruptured, and some of this part of fingers entirely from this part. • The assistant the eye protrude. Pressure may even rupture seldom need make any pressure on the globe of the capsule of the vitreous humor, before the cata- the eve; however, when there is room for one of ract is brought through the incision in the cornea; his lingers to be placed on the inner and upper the same consequences will ensue; and the same part of the globe, without interfering with those practice be necessary, as in the case, in which the of the operator, the method maybe followed, in operator has unskilfully opened the capsule of order to make the eye still more fixed. But im- the vitreous humor with the needle, in attempt- mediately the punctuation of the cornea is com- ing to open that oftjie lens, pleted, the assistant’s finger should always be In taking away fragments of opaque mat- entirely removed, both from the eyelids and ter from the pupil, by means of the curette, eye itself. great care is requisite to avoid wounding the Notwithstanding the upper lid is left thus free, posterior part of the capsule of the crystalline there will be sufficient space between it and the lower lid, to allow the progress of the knife to be seen ; and, in finishing the wound, the operator should depress the lower lid with great gentleness. The vitreous humor may also be lost, in con- sequence of opening the capsule of the lens nearer the circumference, than the centre of the pupil. As the crystalline is both thinner and softer at that part, the instrument will be liable to pass through both sides of the capsule, and enter the vitreous humor. This humor having no longer any barrier to its escape, is liable to be forced out by : the action of the eyelids alone ; and, when pres- > sure is afterwards made, to bring the cataract ■ through, a much greater quantity will be lost, and the cataract, instead of coming forward, will re- c cede from the pupil. The only way to extract i it now, is, by letting the upper lid be gently raised ' by an assistant, (a rare instance, in which this is [ necessary after cutting the cornea) while the operator, either with the fore-finger of the left- t hand, or with the blunt end of the curette, applied 1 beneath the incision in the cornea, prevents the cataract from sinking further. Then, with his right-hand, let him introduce a hook under the flap of the cornea, and with its point carefully entangle the cataract, and bring it away. To prevent, however, such difficulties, Mr. Ware never attempted to puncture the capsule, until the whole pupil was in view'. He was in the habit of opening the capsule with a gold-pointed ' needle, arched towards its extremity. Wenzel’s .needle, for this puqiose, was fiat in its extremity: Mr- Ware’s pointed; and this is their only dif- ference. The latter introduced his instrument under the flap of the cornea, with its arched part uppermost, until its point was on a level with the • centre of the pupil. The end of the instrument was then turned imvard, and gently rubbed on the capsule of the crystalline, until it pierced it. ' a few instances, Mr. Ware found the capsule so tough, that the point of the gold needle would not enter it, and he was obliged to use a sharp steel instrument, of the same shape as that with a - gold point. As already explained, Beer was much bolder with the capsule than Ware, and * 1 ere can be little doubt, that both his capsule- necdle and mode of using it arc better, than those Wenzel and Ware. The vitreous humor may also be lost, at the lrnc extracting the cataract, and the usual with the end of the instrument, so as to open a way for the escape of the vitreous humor. The vitreous humor may, indeed, be forced out, after the extraction of the cataract, merely by a spasmodic action of the eyelids. On this subject, Mr. Ware, after hinting his suspicion, that, in a case of this kind, which he saw, the as- sistant’s keeping up the lid contributed to the event, repeats his advice, “ that the upper eyelid should be raised solely by the fingers of the left- hand of the operator,” after cutting the cornea. Mr. Ware seems to think, that more evil has resulted from the operator’s being deterred, by the readiness, with which the vitreous humor con- tinues to start out, from ascertaining, that all the fragments of the cataract are removed, and that the whole of the iris has resumed its position, than from the mere loss of the vitreous humor, which is quickly regenerated. When a portion of the vitreous humor pro- trudes, Beer thinks, that the safest practice is not to meddle with it, though he owns, that, in this circumstance, the wound heals slowly, and is always followed by a more or less perceptible, whitish scar, the pupil being generally drawn towards it, and deformed, while the iris and the partly emptied membrana hvaloidea become adherent to the edges of the incision in the cor- nea. But, says Beer, the eye-sight will be but little, or not at all impaired, notwithstanding one- eighth or one-fourth of the vitreous humor may be lost. However, he observes, that when one- third or half of it has escaped, a good degree of vision afterwards cannot be expected ; and when more than half has been lost, the operation will have a still less successful result. He states also, that, when two-thirds have been lost, though the eye may recover its natural form, the pupillary edge of the iris will remain contracted round the empty, light-grey membrana hyaloidea, which projects into the anterior chamber, consequently, the pupil will be closed, and that state of the iris ensue, which is aptly termed a sinking of the pupil, subsidentia pupillce or syniccsis. Mr. Ware notices the accident of extracting only a part of the cataract, and leaving the re- mainder behind. He is an advocate for removing all opaque substances from the pupil, except an extreme degree of irritability, to which some eyes are subject, -should render the introduction of every sort of instrument, after the cataract is ex-