1174 VERTEBRAE. DISEASE OF. tow round one end of it, so that lie may take hold of it with safety and convenience. The other end of the caustic should then be moistened a little, and rubbed very quickly on the portion of the integuments, which is to be converted into an eschar. The caustic is to be rubbed in this manner, till the part turns of a dull brown colour, when the caustic should be carefully washed off with a little wet tow, and a poultice applied. As soon as the eschars admit of being re- moved, a row of peas, or beans, connected to- gether with thread, should be laid on the sore, and confined there with sticking plaster. A compress, containing a piece of pasteboard, or sheet-lead, is then to be bound over the peas, or beans, with a roller. In consequence of the con- tinued pressure, the peas, or beans, soon form little hollows for themselves, in which they should be regularly placed every day. When the pressure is not duly maintained, the granu- lations are apt to rise so high, that the peas can- not be well kept on the part. In this circum- stance, the surgeon must try to repress the high surface of the sore, by sprinkling on it a little savine powder and subacetate of copper, mixed together in equal proportions. When this plan is unavailing, the re-application of the caustic becomes indispensable. Whatever time may be requisite to restore the health, as well as the use of the limbs, Mr. Pott thinks, that the issues should be kept open until these objects are completely fulfilled; and even longer, especially in growing children. He owns, that nothing can be more uncertain, than the time required for the cure. He has seen it perfected in two or three months; and he has known it require two years ; two thirds of which time passed before there was any visible amend- ment. After the discharge has been made some time, the patient is found to be better, in all general respects, and if of age to distinguish, will ac- knowledge, that he feels himself to be better in health ; he begins to recover his appetite, gets refreshing sleep, and has a more quiet, and less hectical pulse; but, the relief, which he feels above all others, is from having got rid of that distressing sensation of tightness about the stomach; in a little time more, a degree of warmth, and a sensibility are felt in the thighs, which they had been strangers to for some time ; and generally much about the same time, the power of retaining and discharging the urine and feces begins to be in some degree exerted. The first return of the power of motion in the limbs, says Mr. Pott, is rather disagreeable; the motions being involuntary, and of the spasmodic- kind, principally in the night; and generally at- tended with a sense of pain in all the muscles concerned. At this point of amendment, if it may be so called, it is no uncommon thing, especially in bad cases, for the patient to stand some time without making any farther progress ; this, in adults, occasions impatience, and in parents, de- spair; but, in the milder kind of case, the power of voluntary motion generally soon follows the involuntarv. stiffness, and the relaxation of the latter enables the patient to set his feet flat upon the ground, the certain mark that the power of walking will soon follow; but those joints, having lost their rigidity, become exceedingly weak, and arc not for some time capable of serving the purpose ol progression. An attentive examination of the morbid ap- pearances, and their effects, in different subjects, led Mr. Pott to conclude, amongst other things, that the disease, which produces these effects on the spine, and the parts in its vicinity, is what is in general called scrophula. That ulceration or caries of the bodies of tiie vertebrae affected, is the common morbid change and not enlargement. That when the attack is made upon the dor- sal vertebrae, the sternum and ribs, for want of proper support, necessarily give way, and de- formity, additional to the curve, i: produced. That this kind of caries is always confined to the bodies of the vertebrae, seldom or never af- fecting the articular processes. Two cases were seen by Pott, in which the bodies of the vertebrae were completely detached from their processes, so as to leave the membrane of the spinal mar- row perfectly bare. That without this destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae, there can be no curvature of the kind here treated of; or, in other words, that erosion is the sine qua non of this dis- ease ; that although there can be no true curve without caries, yet there is, and that not in- frequently, caries without curve. That the caries with curvature and useless limbs, is most frequently of the cervical or dor- sal vertebrae, the caries without curve, of the lumbal, though this is by no means constant or necessary. That, in the case of carious spine, without curvature, it most frequently happens, that in- ternal abscesses, and collections of matter are formed, which matter makes its way outward, and appears in the hip, groin, or thigh ; or, being detained within the body, destroys the patient: the real and immediate cause of whose death is seldom known, or even rightly guessed at, unless the dead body be examined. That what are commonly called lumbal and psoas abscesses, are not infrequently produced in this manner, and, therefore, when we use these terms, we should be understood to mean only a description of the course, which such matter has pursued in its way outward, or the place where it makes its appearance externally, the terms really meaning nothing more, nor conveying any pre- cise idea of the nature, seat, or origin of a distemper subject to great variety, and from which variety its very different symptoms and events, in different subjects, can alone be ac- counted for. That contrary to the general opinion, a caries of the spine is more frequently a cause, than an eflect of these abscesses. That the true curvature of the spine, from within outward, of which the paralytic, or useless state of the lower limbs, is a too frequent conse- quence, is itself, but one effect of a distempered spine; such case being always attended with a