119 ANEURISM. large as the first. Da Haen imputes the sud- den disappearance of the swelling to its weight, the yielding of the parts with which it was con- nected, and to its gravitating into the chest, when the patient lay on his right side; for, the difficulty of breathing, and other complaints, produced by the pressure on the lungs, under- went a material increase, as soon as the tumour ceased to protrude. The pulsations which accompany true aneu- risms, continue to be strong, until the inner coats of the vessel give way, or the layers of coagulated blood, lodged in the sac, are nu- merous. Hence, when soft swellings, situated near anv large arteries, lose their pulsatory mo- tion, their course, precise situation, and other circumstances, ought to be most carefully inves- tigated, before any decision is made about the mode of treatment. In St. Bartholomew's hospital, I saw a man, about three years ago, who had a large swelling of great solidity, occupying the ham, and appa- rently extending a good way forwards round the condyles of the femur. Its hardness, shape, large size, and entire freedom from pulsation, not only then, but at an earlier period, as far as could be collected from the patient’s own account, led to the belief, that, the case was probably a tumour complicated with exostosis of the femur, and as this opinion seemed to be confirmed by no fluid escaping from a puncture made with a lancet, amputation was performed. To our surprise, however, dissection proved, that the disease was a large diffused popliteal aneurism, in which the spontaneous cure by an obliteration of the sac with coagula was taking place. (See Med. Cdir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 497.) In many instances, the most fatal accidents have happened, in consequence of incisions having been made in aneurisms, 'which were mistaken for abscesses, because there was no pul- sation. Vesalius was consulted about a tumour of the back, which he pronounced to be an aneu- rism. Soon afterwards, an imprudent practi- tioner made an opening in the swelling, and the patient bled to death in a very short time. Ruysch relates, that a friend of his, having opened a tumour near the heel, which was not supposed to be an aneurism, the greatest diffi- culty was experienced in suppressing the hemor- rhage. De Haen speaks of a patient, who died in consequence of an opening, which was made in a similar swelling at the knee, although Boer- haave had given his advice against the perform- ance of such an operation. Palfin, Sehlitting, ’ Warner, and others, have recorded mistakes of the same kind. (Sabatier, Tom. 3. p. 167.) Riche- rand informs us, that Ferrand, head surgeon of the Hotel-Dieu, mistook an axillary aneurism for an abscess, plunged his bistoury into the swell- ing, and killed the patient. “ J'ui he temoin d’erreurs sembLables, commises par Les praliciens non mnins fameux ; et si dcs anhirismcs exlernes on passe a. ceux des arteres placees a i’interie.ur, les erreurs nc sont ni mnins ordinaircs ni de nwin- dre consequence." (Nosugr. Chir. T. 4, p. 75, £'/. 2.) Notwithstanding a pulsation is one of the most P'ominent symptoms of an aneurism, it is not to >e inferred, that every swelling which pulsates is unquestionably of this description; for, as Mr. Warner has explained, it does happen, that mere imposthumations, or collections of matter, arising from external as well as internal causes, are sometimes so immediately situated upon the heart itself, and, at other times, upon some of its prin- cipal arteries, as to partake, in the most regular manner, of their contraction and dilatation “A few years ago,” siiys he, “ I saw an in- stance of a boy,, about thirteen years of age, who had his breast-bone nrtich fractured by a fall; on this account, he was admitted into Guy’s Hospital; but, not till a fortnight after the acci- dent had happened. “ Upon examination, there was an evident separation of the broken parts of the bone, which were removed some distance from each other. The intermediate space was occupied by a tumour of a considerable size ; the integuments were of their natural complexion. The swelling had as regular a contraction and dilatation as the heart itself, or the aorta could be supposed to have. Upon pressure, the tumour receded; upon a re- moval of the pressure, the tumour immediately resumed its former size ; all these are allowed to be distinguishing signs of a recent true aneurism. The situation and symptoms of this swelling were judged sufficient reasons for considering the nature of the disease as uncertain : on which account it was left to take its own course. “ The event was, the tumour burst in about three weeks after his admission; discharged a considerable quantity of matter ; and the patient did well by very superficial applications.’’ (Cases in Surgery, Edit. 4, p. 155.) An extraordinary form of disease, having very much the appearance of an aneurism, sometimes presents itself. A swelling, attended with con- siderable pain, and a strong pulsation, is gradual- ly produced high up the arm ; and at length attains a very large size. The strength of the throbbings at first leads to the suspicion, that the ease must be an aneurism; but, on careful ex- amination, the humerus is found to have given way at a point involved in the disease, and here to be as flexible, as if there were a fracture. This circumstance, and the extension of the swell- ing too far away from the track of the artery, in time raise doubts about the case being an aneu- rism. The patient ultimately falls a victim to the effects of the disease on the constitution, and, when the arm is dissected after death, the tumour is found to consist of a sarcomatous, or medullary mass, occupying the central portion of the limb, and accompanied with a solution of continuity extending completely through the whole thickness of the bone. Two cases of this description have been admitted into St. Bartho- lomew’s hospital in the course of the present year (1820). One of these patients, a woman, I had an opportunity of seeing; and, since her death, the real nature of the disease has been proved by dissection. My friend Mr. Vincent has seen a similar disease in the leg, resembling aneurism in the circumstance of pulsation, but attended with destruction of a part of the tibia, and a moveableness of the separated ends of the bone. A few years ago, I saw a large abscess in the situation of the quadratus lumborum muscle, which pulsated , so strongly, that the case was supposed by several experienced men to be an