OPHTHALMY. 911 ially towards its circumference. At the com- but that lie lias observed it most frequently da nencement of the disease, there is often a dis- adults, and persons of rather advanced age. Only greeable feeling of dryness of the eye; but, one eye is usually ntl'eeted ; and when the second oouer or later, a very copious secretion of tears j| J: ! 1 1 akes place. The eyelids are observed to be very ittleaffected. At first, the chief seat of pain is enerally in the head, though sometimes in the tyeball itself. Mr. Wardrop describes the pain - s usually most severe in the temple of the af- ,-cted side, but, he says, that it is often seated in hhe brow, the cheek-bone, the teeth, or the lower aw. “ Sometimes the pain is precisely confined .o one half of the head, and sometimes there is a evere pain in the cavity of the nose, or in the car. The pains are more of a dull agonizing rtind, than acute, and though unceasing, they - ary much in degree, coming on at times in very severe paroxysms, and with great violence i.’hen the head is bent downwards. Sometimes, ihe pain is excited by merely touching the scalp, nd the patient is unable to rest his head on the affected side, or even lean it on a pillow. In nost cases, the pain is said to be remittent, the >aroxysm coming on in the evening, continuing luring the night, being most severe about mid- night, and abating towards morning. In the eyeball, says Mr. Wardrop, the patient generally complains more of a sense of fulness ; ind distention, than of pain; and, though there ss a great degree of external redness, the eye Hoes not seem to suffer from exposure to light; i point, on which Professor Beer delivers a di- rectly opposite statement, at least, in relation to 1 he first stage of the disease. However, these luthors both agree in considering the sclerotica, is generally the chief seat of rheumatic inflam- mation ; but. Beer sets down the iris as likewise i subject to be attacked. He admits also, that, in the second stage, the aversion to light under- : goes a considerable diminution. According to • Mr. Wardrop, rheumatic ophthalmy is always accompanied with more or less symptomatic fever, severe paroxysms of which take place to- wards evening, and the functions of the primae vise are much deranged, “ the appetite being im- paired, and the evacuation always changed in quality.” In severe cases, the pain in the head soon becomes agonizing, the redness of the eye- ball increases, the whole white of the eye is crowded with blood vessels, and the conjunctiva swelled. At length, ulceration commences in the cornea, through which the aqueous humour is discharged, and the eyeball collapses, when all pain ceases; or abscesses may form within the 1 posterior chamber, and burst through the sclero- tic coat. (Wardrop, in Med. Chir. Trans. I Vol. 10.) Beer describes small watery vesicles as forming on the cornea, or white of the eye, and changing during severe pains into small ulcers, which occasion an appearance, as if a small piece were torn out of the surface of the cornea. He adds, that they seldom leave scars behind ; but generally little pits, which are soon filled up in healthy subjects. (See Weller on Diseases of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 217.) The causes of rheumatic ophthalmy, enumer- ated by writers, are change of weather, variation is attacked, the disease is almost always less severe in it, than that which is first inflamed. According to Mr. Wardrop, rheumatic oph- thalmy resembles syphilitic more, than any other kind of inflammation of the eye. But, he notices, that, in rheumatic ophthalmy, the proper vessels of the sclerotic coat are enlarged, which is the cause of the redness being generally diffused over the whole albuginea, whereas in syphilitic inflammation, it is the anterior ciliary arteries, passing along the sclerotica on their way to the iris, which arc chiefly affected ; and hence the pale ring, which is always observed between the cornea and the enlarged vessels. Mr. Wardrop further explains, that though these diseases re- semble each other in the pains round the orbit, and their evening exacerbation, patients, with syphilitic ophthalmy, always have the constitu- tional symptoms of syphilis. When the disease has made much progress, and the symptoms have not yielded to other remedies, Mr. Wardrop recommends the evacu- ation of the aqueous humour, as a practice, from which the most beneficial effects may be expected. After the operation, fomentations are the only necessary applications ; but, if the eye continue long irritable, the vinous tincture of opium is to be used. Mr. Wardrop enjoins attention to the state of the biliary organs in every stage of the disease, and speaks highly of the sudden relief sometimes afforded by an emetic, care being taken to empty the bowels afterwards with calomel and rhubarb, or other purgatives. If the functions of the skin were suddenly interrupted by a chill just before the attack, this author prescribes a couple of grains of antimonial powder, alone, or combined with opium, to be taken every four or six hours. Little advantage, he says,-is derived from local bleeding, and where venesection may become ne- cessary, on account of the complaint resisting other means, it is to be practised with modera- tion. In the early stage, Mr. Wardrop has found, that the pain in the eye and eyebrow are some- times much alleviated" by a fomentation with the decoction of poppv-heads. He also praises blis- ters to the nape of the neck, or behind the ear; but, disapproves of their being put near the eve itself. The vinous tincture of opium, he says, is the only local application, which he has ever seen decidedly beneficial; but, its use is to be deferred, till a late stage of the inflammation, when all febrile symptoms have been subdued. “ After the primas vim have been well evacuated, the tongue may still remain very white, and the pulse quicker, than natural.” In this state, small doses of bark, either alone, or with the mineral acids, will be most serviceable. (War- drop in Medi Chir. Trans. Vol. 10.) The out- lines of Beer’s practice may be given very briefly: in the first stage, he applies a leech to the inner canthus, and covers the eye with a cold poultice, with a small proportion ol vinegar it is made. Dinpho- stnee. n - • .."in the water, with which .* o temperature, exposure to damp, a cold current reties arc also prescribed. In the second air directly striking the eye, and a constitution guaiacum, camphor, arnica, antimoninls, blisters ' isposed to rheumatism. Mr. Wardrop states, to the neck, or behind the ears, frictions with >a otli sexes are equally subject to the disease; opium over the eyebrows, and covering the eves