GONORIlHtEA. 521 been repeated with a different result; but, as a late writer has remarked, can we wonder at this, when we consider from how many causes gonor- rhea may arise, and how impossible it is to dis- tinguish the venereal from any }},<rhid Poisons, by J. E:l. 2.) Another argument, adduced by Hunter, in fa- other? (Ohs. Adams, M. D. p. 91, In chancre there is breach of substance, the poison is not much diluted, &c. Why does not chancre generally, in the same person, produce gonorrhoea, and gonorrhoea chan- cre? Mr. Sawrey, in answer, expresses his be- lief, that these incidents are not very unfrequent. He says, he has known persons having a chancre, which continued for months, become affected, after vor of the poisons of gonorrhoea and chancre being that time, with a clap, without any further expo- the same, is the probability, that the Otaheiteans sure. His opinion is, that the matter of the chan- had the venereal disease propagated to them by ere had insinuated itself into the urethra, and pro- European sailors, who were affected with gonor- duced the disease ; though, he confesses, many rhcea; for these can hardly be supposed to have had a chancre, during a voyage of five months, without the penis being destroyed. It is impossible, however, to say what time may elapse, between the application of the vene- real poison to the penis, and th■ commencement of the ulceration. Therefore, Bougainville s sailors, alluded to by Mr. Hunter, might have contracted the infection at Rio-de-la-Plata ; but actual ulcers on the penis might not have formed till about five months afterwards, when the ship arrived at Otalieite. In attempting to explain, why a gonorrhoea and a chancre do not equally produce lues vene- rea, and why the medicine which almost uni- versally cures chancre, has less effect on gonor- rhoea, a modern advocate for Mr. Hunter s doc- trine savs, that we must take into consideration, that the seat of the two diseases is different; that the same cause may produce different effects upon different parts; that the same poison, when mixed with different fluids, may be more or less violent in its operation ; and that there may be greater or less attraction of certain fluids to a part, according to its nature and composition. (Inquiry into some Effects of the Venereal Poison bp S. Sawrep, 1802, p. 4.) Mr. Sawrey very truly remarks, p. 6, that if the gonorrhoeal mat- ter has clearly and decidedly produced chancre, or contaminated the system in any one instance, the question is determined. It could in no instance produce these effects, unless it had the power of doing so. This writer brings forward some cases to prove, that the poison of gonor- rhoea mav produce gonorrhoea, or chancre; but, the limits’ of this work onlyafford room to observe, that these instances are by no means decisive of the point, because some objections may be urged against them, as indeed, Mr. Sawrey himself al- lows. That Mr. Hunter’s cases are inconclu- sive, I have particularly endeavoured to explain in the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vol. I, Eil. 4, to which I must refer my readers. Why does not gonorrhoea commonly produce ulceration in the urethra? Mr. Sawrey tries to solve this question, by saying, that the product of the venereal inflammation, the diseased con- tents of the small arteries of the urethra, are thrown out of these open-mouthed vessels into this canal, without any breach of their texture, which otherwise would be a necessary conse- quence. Why does not gonorrhcca equally contaminate the system as chancre? In gonorrhcca, says Mr. Sawrey, the discharge is very plentiful; it is not, in general, attended with ulceration; the poi- son is much more diluted, and mixed with a mucous and puriform fluid. It is deposited in the urethra, and its lacuna;, where little or no pressure is applied, and it finds easy egress out of the canal. would explain the circumstance, by supposing that the chancre and gonorrhoea were both communi- cated at the same time by two different poisons. Mr. Hunter remarks, that the presence of one disease renders the adjacent parts less susceptible of its influence. Mr. Sawrey concludes his second chapter with inclining to the idea, that the matter of gonor- rhoea iis not strictly pus, but of a more mucous nature than that of a chancre. However, when he mentions chemical attractions, as drawing thq poison from mucus to the urethra, and from pus to the dry parts, in order" to explain the last of the above questions, every sober reader must feel sorry, that a work, which contains some really sensible observations, should comprehend this most unfortunate one. Mr. Whately has also written, in support of the opinion, that the matter of gonorrhoea and that of chancre, are the same. (See Whately on Crohorrhcea Virulent a.) Another defender of this side of the question is Dr. Swediaur, who endeavours to prove the fallacy of the following positions:—1. That the poison which produces the clap, does never, like that of chancres, produce any venereal symptoms in the mass or lues itself. 2. Thai the poison of the clap never produces chancres, and that the poison of chancres never produces a clap. 3. That mercury never contributes to, nor accelerates the cure if a clap; but that, on the contrary, every, blenorrhagia may be certainly cured without mer- cury, and without any danger of leaving a lues behind. His arguments run thus:—the reason why- claps do not, like chancres, constantly produce the lues, is, that most of them excite only a superficial inflammation in the membrane of the urethra, without any ulceration. Hence, absorp- tion cannot easily take place, the poison being out of the course of the circulation. But lie has seen claps, with an ulcer in the urethra, fol- lowed by the most unequivocal 'Symptoms of lues itself. He mentions the urethra being defended with a large quantity of mucus, as the thing impeding the common formation of ulcers, which do occasionally occur when the mucus is not secreted as usual, or is washed away. He asserts, that in many cases, where he had occa- sion to examine botii parties, he was convinced that the chancres were communicated bv a per- son affected with a simple gonorrhoea; and, vice verso, that a virulent clap had been the conse- quence of an infection from a person baying merely chancres. He says, that if a patient, with a venereal running, does not take care to keep the prepuce and glans perfectly clean, chan- cres will very often be produced. He owns a great many claps arc cured without mercury ; yet, repeated experience has shewn him, a cure