210 BANDAGE. from above downwards, through a portion of the great pectoral muscle, into the axilla, Scarpa ad- vises the surgeon to cut through the lower edge ot this muscle, and enlarge the wound, on a di- rector, or his linger, so as to bring fairly into view the injured part of the artery. The tho- racic arteries, divided in this operation, must be immediately tied. The clots of blood are then to be removed, and the bottom of the wound cleaned with a sponge, by which means the opening in the axillary artery will be more clearly seen. As this vessel lies imbedded in the brachial plexus of nerves, the surgeon must take care to raise it from these latter parts with a pair of forceps, be- fore he ties it. Two ligatures will be required ; one, above ; the other, below the wound of the artery. ASTRINGENTS, (from astringo, to bind.) In medicine, are those substances which possess a power of making the living fibres become con- tracted, condensed, and corrugated. They are employed in the practice of surgery chiefly as external applications, either for restoring dimi- nished tonic power, orcheckinc: various discharges. Astringent lotions are usually deemed eligible local remedies for phlegmonous inflammation. ATHEROMA, (from uOnf a, pap.) An encysted tumor, so named from its paplike con- tents. (See Tumors Encysted.) BALSAMUM COPAIViE. Exhibited by surgeons principally in cases of gonorrhea, gleet, and piles : The common dose is from ten to thirty drops, two or three times a day. BALSAMUM PERUVIANUM CUM EELLE BOVINO. & Fellis Bovini Jiij Bal- sam i Peruv. 3 j* M. Dr. H. Smith recom- mended this application to be occasionally drop- ped into the ear, when there is a fetid discharge from the meatus auditorius. This passage is also to be washed out every day, by throwing into it with a syringe warm water alone, or containing a little soap. BANDAGE. (Deligalio. Fascia.) The use of bandages is to keep dressings, compresses, remedies, &c. in their proper situa- tion ; to compress blood-vessels, so as to re- strain hemorrhage ; to rectify certain deformities by holding the deranged parts in a natural posi- tion ; and to unite parts, in which there is a solution of continuity. As the application of bandages is an important branch of surgery, au- thors have not neglected it. Much has been written on the subject, and almost every writer has devised new bandages, perhaps without much benefit to the art. Unfortunately, it is next to impossible to give very clear ideas of the numer- ous sorts of bandages by a printed description of them. The surgeon can only acquire all the necessary instruction and information from the experience and habit resulting from practice. Hence, we shall confine ourselves to a general account of the subject. Bandages should be made of such materials, as possess sufficient strength to fulfil the end pro- posed in applying them, and at the same time, they should be supple enough to admit of being accommodated to the parts, to which they are applied. Bandages are made of linen, cotton, or flan- nel. If possible, they should be without a seam, or selvage, which sometimes causes unequal and painful pressure. There are cases, in which the bandage should have a degree of firmness, that does not belong to the materials usually employed. This cir- cumstance is obvious in cases of hernia, and in all those examples, in which there is occasion for elastic bandages. As we have already ob- served, linen, flannel, and cotton (calico), are the common materials. The first employment of flannel bandages is imputed to the Scotch sur- geons, who preferred them to linen ones, in con- sequence of their being better calculated for ab- sorbing moisture, while, being more elastic, they yield in a greater degree in cases requiring this property ; as in the swelling subsequent to dislo- cations, fractures, &c. It has been asserted, that linen is better than flannel, because more clean- ly; but neither one nor the other will continue clean, unless care be taken to change it often enough. Where the indication is to keep the parts warm, flannel is of course preferable to linen or calico. The employment of cotton or calico bandages is a more recent method, and many advantages are attributed to the softness and elasticity of this material. In applying a bandage, care must be taken, that it be put on tight enough to fulfil the object in view, without running any risk of stopping the circulation, or doing harm in any other way. If it be not sufficiently tight to support the parts in a proper manner, it is useless; if it be too tense, it will produce swelling, inflammation, and even mortification. In order to apply a roller skilfully, the part which is to be covered, must be put in its proper situation : the head of the roller field in the sur- geon’s hand, and only so much unrolled, as is necessary for the commencement of the ap- plication. In general, the bandage should be applied in such a manner, as will admit of its being re- moved with the most ease, and allow the state of the subjacent parts to be examined, as often as occasion may require. For this reason, in fractures of the leg and thigh, the eighteen-tailed bandage is generally preferred to a simple roller. The former may be loosened and tightened, at pleasure, without oc- casioning the smallest disturbance of the affected limb; a thing which could not be done, were a common roller to be employed. As soon as a bandage has fulfilled the object for which it is applied, and it has become useless, its employment should be discontinued; for, by remaining too long on parts, it may obstruct the circulation, diminish the tone of the compressed | fibres, and vessels, and thus do harm. Bandages arc either simple or compound, j They are also sometimes divided into general