ANUS. 18G twenty-five months, it continued to be troubled with a sort of prolapsus of the lining of the bowel. (See Recueil Periodiqua tie lu Soc. tie Med. T. 4, No. 19, ^ Sabatier, Mid, Ope'ratoire, T. 3, /). 336, Edit. 2). Callisen conceives, that the descending colon may be most conveniently got at by making an incision in the left lumbar region, along the edge of the quadratus lumborum muscle, and he prefers this mode of operating, to that of making the incision above the groin. (Syst. Chir. Hodi- ertue, T. 2, p. 688, 689.) Its advantages, however, are not obvious, and certainly it is on some accounts objectionable. (See Medecine Opiratoire par Sabatier, Tom. 3, p. 330. Also Remarques sur DiJjerens Vices de Conformation, que Its Enfans opponent en nnissant, par M. Petit, in Mem. de l’Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, Tom. 2,p. 236, Edit, in 12mo. H. A. Wrisberg, de prtBlernaturali et raro intestini Recti cum vesica urinaria coalitu, et inde pendente ani de- fects, 4to. Goff. 1779. Ford, in Med. Facts Obj, Vol. 1, No. 10, Chamberlaine in Memoirs of the Med. Soc. of Lund. Vol. 5, No. 23. Riche- rand's Nosographie Chirurgicale, Tom. 3, p. 437, &;c. Edit. 4. Callisen’s Systema Chirurgice Hodiemuz, T. 2, p. 686, Edit. 1800; <3fc.) ABSCESSES OF THE ANUS. FISTULA IN ANO. The custom of giving the appellation of fistula to every collection of matter formed near the anus, has, by conveying a false notion of them, been productive of such methods of treating them, as are diametrically opposite to those which ought to be pursued. A small orifice or outlet from a large or deep cavity, discharging a thin gleet, or sanies, made a considerable part of the idea, which our ances- tors had of a fistulous sore, wherever seated. With the term fistulous, they always connected a notion of callosity: and, therefore, whenever they found such a kind of opening yielding such sort of discharge, and attended with any degree of induration, they called the complaint a fistula. Imagining this callosity to be a diseased altera- tion made in the very structure of the parts, they had no conception that it could be cured by any means, but by removal with a cutting instru- ment, or by destruction with escharotios: and, therefore, they immediately attacked it with knife or caustic, in order to accomplish one of these ends; and very terrible work they often made. That abscesses, formed near the fundament, do sometimes, from bad habits, from extreme neglect, or from gross mistreatment, become fis- tulous, is certain; but the majority of them have not at first, any one character or mark of a true fi-tula • nor can, without the most supine neglect on the’side of the patient, or the most ignorant management on the part of the surgeon, degene- rate, or be converted into one. _ Collections of matter from inflammation (wherever formed) if they be not opened in time, and in a proper manner, do often burst. I he hole, through which the matter finds vent, is generally small, and not often situated in the most convenient, or most dependent part of the tumor: it therefore is unfit for the discharge of all the contents of the abscess; and, instead o closing, contracts itself to a smaller size, and becoming hard at its edges, continues to drain off what is furnished by the undigested sides of the cavity. When an abscess about the anus bursts, the smallness of the accidental orifice ; the hardness of its edges; its being found to be the outlet from a deep cavity; the daily discharge of a thin, gleety, discoloured kind of matter; and the induration of the parts round about, have all contributed to raise, and confirm the idea of a true fistula. Upon this idea was built the old pernicious doctrine of free excision, or as free destruction. Abscesses about the anus present themselves in different forms. Sometimes the attack is made with symptoms of high inflammation; with pain, fever, rigor, &c. and the fever ends as soon as the abscess is formed. In this case, a part of the buttock near to the anus is considerably swollen, and has a large circumscribed hardness. In a short time, the middle of this hardness becomes red, and in- flamed ; and in the centre of it matter is formed. This (in the language of our ancestors) is called in general a phlegmon ; but when it ap- pears in this particular part, a phyma. The pain is sometimes great, the fever high, the tumor large, and exquisitely tender; but however disagreeable the appearances may have been, or however high the symptoms may have risen, before suppuration, yet, when that end is fairly and fully accomplished, the patient gene- rally becomes easy and cool; and the matter formed under such circumsianees, though it may be plentiful, yet is good. On the other hand, the external parts, after much pain, attended with fever, sickness, <Scc. are sometimes attacked with considerable inflam- mation, but without any of that circumscribed hardness, which characterised the preceding tumor; instead of which the inflammation is extended largely, and the skin wears an erysi- pelatous kind of an appearance. In this, the disease is more superficial; the quantity of mat- ter small, and the cellular membrane sloughy to a considerable extent. Sometimes, instead of either of the preceding appearances, there is formed in this part, what the French call une suppuration gangreneuse; in which the cellular and adipose membrane is affected in the same manner, as it is in the dis- ease called a carbuncle. In this case, the skin is of a dusky red or purple kind of colour; and although harder than when in a natural state, yet it has, by no means, that degree of tension or resistance, which it has either in the phlegmon, or in the erysipelas. The patient has generally, at first, a hard, full, jarring, pulse, with great thirst, and very fatiguing restlessness. If the progress of the disease be not stopped, or the patient relieved by medicine, the pulse soon changes into tin un- equal, low, faltering one; and the strength and the spirits sink in such manner, as to imply great and immediately impending mischief. The mat- ter formed under the skin, so altered, is small in quantity, and bad in quality; and the adipose mojibrane is gangrenous and sloughy through-