ALVINE CONCRETIONS. 11 properties; are fusible, inflammable, and more or less soluble, in the agents, which dissolve it.” (See Murray s Syst. of Chemistry, vnt. 4, p. 594, g.) Fourcroy, on exposing the above pecu- liar substance to the action of oxygenated muri- atic acid, saw it whitened, and afterwards resume its former silvery hue. However, Hubiui re- peated this experiment, and found, that the whiteness, which was contracted, remained per- manent. While the hepatic system contains a fluid which is always nearly of the same quality, viz. the bile, the alimentary canal, as Rubini observes, contains a hundred different fluids, and is con- tinually occupied by substances, of various na- tures kinds, and properties, consisting of food, drink, and several secretions. All the principles, which are to serve for the formation and renewal of the different species of living solids, and of the many kinds of fluids, at first remain more or less time in the alimentary canal, and there undergo peculiar changes. All the principles, which, under different circumstances, may contribute to the production of morbid concretions, either in the gall-bladder, the urinary bladder, the kidneys, or in any other part of the body, where they ever occur, pass at first into the intestinal canal, where they continue for some time. Such a multipli- city of principles, disposed to crystallize, and be converted into calculi, would very often, almost daily, produce these concretions in the bowels, were there not many circumstances, which coun- teract this tendency, as, for instance, exeicise, the incessant motion of the matter itself along' the intestinal tube, the variety of these elements, whereby their requisite tendency to unite is dis- turbed, and the decomposing and recomposing influence of the gastric secretions, whereby parts are united, disposed of, dissolved, and analogous matter kept divided, Sec. But, whenever these circumstances are not actively operating, as may be the case in a noose, or fold of the bowels, or in some preternatural cyst belonging to them ; whenever the intestinal fluids undergo such an alteration, that the production of these con- cretions cannot be prevented ; or, lastly, when- ever some favourable circumstance, such as an extraneous nucleus, forms a centre of reunion for particular elements; then the saline matter, which is most disposed to crystallize, and the earthy and mucilaginous substances, &e. are attracted together, and produce more or less perfect crystallizations. A chemical analysis of some intestinal calculi, first made by Konig, and afterwards by Slare, (Pliitos phi cat Transactions) proves that when they are exposed to a strong heat in distillation, they yield water, ammonia, and a lixivious salt, a caput mortuum remaining behind. Cadet, in analysing a similar concretion, found in addition to the above products, phos- phorus. The muriate of ammonia was afterwards discovered; and Gioberti, Fourcroy, and Vauque- m, in their histories of the intestinal concretions met with in animals, describe them as composed of the acidulous phosphate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, and of the ammoniaeal-magnesian phosphate. Some specimens, contained in the Edinburgh museum, were very carefully examined by Dr. • homson : they at first swam in water, but a terwardssunk; the specific gravity varying from 1 *376 to 1 -540. Cold water, acquired from them a brownish tinge, and took up albumen, which separated in white flakes by boiling. There was also a peculiar brown substance, at first dissolving in water, but rendered nearly insoluble by slow evaporation; soluble in alcohol; and most nearly resembling vegetable extract The specimens likewise contained muriate of soda, crystallizing on spontaneous evaporation of the water: phos- phate of lime, precipitated by ammonia; sulphate of soda in minute proportion ; and, perhaps, sulphate of lime. Alcohol dissolved the peculiar brown matter and some of the salts; caustic potash, the albumen, brown matter, and perhaps some of the salts ; and muriatic acid a proportion of phosphate of lime. After all, there remained a peculiar substance, having the colour and texture of the calculus; in very short threads, light, resembling cork, or rather agaric ; tasteless, in- soluble in water, alcohol, ether, potash-ley, and muriatic acid; being blackened, and partly reduced to charcoal by sulphuric acid ; slowly dissolving by heat, without effervescence, in nitric acid ; and leaving on evaporation a whitish residue, of bitter taste, and imperfectly soluble in water; burning with a bright flame ; but differing from all olher animal and vegetable substances hitherto ex- amined, and distinguishable from wood, by its insolubility in potash-ley. The calculi consisted of alternate layers, or intimate mixtures of this substance and phosphate of lime, to which the albumen and brown matter served as a cement, the other substances being in small proportions. Phosphate of lime, mixed with a brown animal matter, formed the external crust of some of the specimens. On the surface of a few were noticed crystals of phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. The presence of neither potash, ammonia, car- bonate of lime, uric acid, nor urea, could be detected. Varieties have also been found by Dr. Henry and Mr. Brande, which were exclusively composed of magnesia, of which the patients had been in the habit of taking vast quantities. (See Thomson s Ohs. in Monro's morbid Anatomy of the human Gullet, Sfc. p. 36, or in Medico-Chir. Journ. vol. 4, p. 188, 189.) From some recent observations made by Dr. Wollaston, it appears probable, that the above fibrous light thready substance is derived from oats, which are so commonly taken as food in Scotland. “ If the oat-seed be divested of its husk, minute needles or beards, forming a small brush, are seen planted at one of its ends. Dr. Wol- laston, on examining these needles, and comparing them with similar ones detached from the calculi, and forming the velvet substance in question, satisfied himself beyond all doubt of their perfect identity.’’ (Marcet on calculous Disorders, p. 130, 8vo. London, 1817.) As for the mixed, or hepatico-gastric calculi, thc'5r have for their nucleus a biliary concretion, round which other substances contained in the bowels adhere: hence, it is evident, that as they are formed at two distinct periods, in two different situations, and amongst various fluids, two distinct compositions must be the result. Although, says Rubini, there has hitherto been no scientific analysis of this species of calculus, ex- cepting the very imperfect one by Morculi,