GANGRENE. G5t> HOSPITAL hospital near Bilbao. {Principles of MMitffry Surgery, p. ‘214, J'.d. 2.) Hr. Hollo also remark- ed, that some men in quarters were affected with this disease. And, according to Mr. J. Bell, “ there is no hospital, however small, airy, or well 1 egulated, where this epidemic ulcer is not to be found at times.” {Principles of Surgery, l ol. 1, p. 112.) For a refutation of the opinion, that the disease ever strictly merits the epithets endemial, and epidemic, I must refer the reader to the observations of Mr. Blackadder. (P. 143, .'53.) Delpech remarks, that the causes of the disease do not appear to have depended upon the state of the atmosphere {P. 25); and in almost every instance, lie traced the propagation of the disorder to the direct application of the morbific matter to the sores. However, he joins Pouteau in the belief, that it may be communicated through the medium of the atmosphere; an occurrence, which Mr. Blackadder doubts, or, rather con- siders as very rare, and only possible, where the effluvia are allowed to accumulate in a most neg- ligent manner, so as to resemble a vapour bath, which mode, he would also regard as equivalent to inoculation. {On Phagedcem Gangrccnosa, p. 156.) On the whole, I am disposed to think the views, which Mr. Blackadder has taken of the manner in which the disease is communi- cated, the most correct, hitherto published, and that, while particular states of the air and consti- tution certainly modify the disorder, they cannot generally have any share in giving origin to the disease; Isay generally, because as various facts oblige us to admit, that hospital gangrene some- times arises, without having been communicated from any patient previously affected, it is impos- sible to assert, that the earliest example of it, under such circumstances, may not arise from the operation of some unknown and inexplicable circumstances on the constitution, or in other words, from the state of the system itself. Nor can a doubt be entertained, that, at all events, the disorder is most apt to break out in crowded, badly ventilated hospitals, and in them appear more extensively and malignantly, than in others, which are well regulated, properly ventilated, and healthily situated. But, the idea, entertained by Delpech, that hospital gangrene may origi- nate from the same contagion as typhus, or other diseases, is a mere unsupported, irrational con- jecture, quite as destitute of truth, as the suppo- sitions about the endemial and epidemic charac- ter of the complaint, independent of its infectious nature. The question, how the ffrst example of the disorder originates, is at present a perfect mystery; but, as it cannot be referred to conta- gion, or inoculation, we should recollect, that whatever produces it in one individual, may pro- duce it in another, similarly circumstanced, and, on this principle, the disorder may sometimes be formed independently, and at the same time, in a greater or lesser number of patients in the same hospital, as well as spread from these to others by infection. With the view of preventing the disorder, the wards, in which the wounded are placed, should not be crowded; they ought to be freely venti- lated, and, if possible, not communicate. The utmost attention to cleanliness should be paid; and all filth and stagnant water removed. It has been asserted, but with what accuracy I cannot determine, that the predisposition of the wound- ed to this species of gangrene may be lessened by a well-chosen diet, by drinks acidulated with vegetable acids, or with the sulphuric acid, and by the moderate use of wine. The stale of the stomach and bowels should be particularly at- tended to, and, if out of order, emetics and pur- gatives ought to be immediately employed, and repeated according to circumstances. The dressings should be applied with extreme atten- tion to cleanliness, and too much care cannot be taken to prevent the infectious matter of one wound from coming into contact with another through the medium of sponges, instruments, &c. “ Whatever may be the source of this dis- ease (says a late writer) it is at least sufficiently ascertained, that, when it occurs, its propagation is only to be prevented by the most rigid atten- tion to cleanliness, and by insulating the person, or persons affected, soasto prevent all direct inter- course between them and the otherpatients; for, so far as I have had an opportunity of observing, ninety-nine cases in the hundred were evidently produced by a direct application of the morbific matter to the wounds, dressings, &c.; while others, who were, in every other respect, equally exposed to its operation, never caught the dis- ease. In attempting to prove this by experi- ment, I have placed three patients with clean wounds alternately between three other patients, severely affected with the disease. They lay in a part of a ward, which was appropriated for pa- tients, who were labouring under the disease, and of whom there were at the time a consider- able number. Their beds were on the floor, and not more than two feet distant from each other ; but, all direct intercourse was forbidden, and they were made fully aware of the conse- quences, that would follow from inattention to their instructions. The result of this trial was, that not one of the clean wounds assumed the morbid action peculiar to the disease, nor was the curative process in any degree impeded.” {Blaclcaddcr on Phagcdacna Gangrccnosa,p. 46.) As many experienced writers assert, that the disease may also be communicated from one person to another through the medium of effluvia in the air, 1 am firmly persuaded, that, in the present state of our knowledge of the subject, the cautions, respecting ventilation,, cleanliness, (the chief practical deduction from the latter doc- trine) are highly necessary and important. This sentiment may be adopted, without implicit faith > being placed in the opinion, that the disorder can actually be transmitted from one person to another through contagion in the air, because whether the last idea be true, or not, atten- tion to cleanliness and ventilation must be be- neficial to the health, in this, as in every other species, of gangrene; and, on this principle, they must be serviceable in diminishing the se- verity, if not the frequency and extent, of the disease, as I am myself disposed to believe from the consideration of all the evidence adduced. Where circumstances will permit, an entire re- moval of the patients from the place, in which the disease has either had its first formation, or spread to any extent, appears likewise to be a most beneficial measure. But, when this change of the wards, or hospital, is impracticable, the air, which the patients breathe, should be pu-