HOSPITAL GANGRENE. G4ft As tins gentleman lias truly remarked, this ease is particularly deserving of notice, because it lias often been considered and treated as a chancre. For a great deal more valuable information respecting Herpes, I beg leave to refer the reader to the publications of Drs. Willan and Bateman, ami also to the article Herpes, written by this last able physician for Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia. HORDEOLUM, (dim of hordeum, barley.) A little tumor on the eyelid, resembling a barley corn. A Stye. As Scarpa remarks, the stye is strictly only a little boil, which projects from the edge of the eyelids, particularly often near the great angle of the eye. This little tumor, like the furunculus, is of a dark red colour, much inflamed, and a great deal more painful, than might be expected, considering its small size. The latter circumstance is partly owing to the vehemence of the inflammation producing the stye, and partly to the exquisite sensibility and tension of the skin, which covers the edge of the eyelids. On this account, the hordeolum very often excites fever and restlessness in delicate, irritable constitutions ; it suppurates slowly and imperfectly; and, when suppurated, has no tend- ency to burst. The stye, like other furunculous inflammations, forms an exception to the general rule, that the best mode, in which inflammatory swellings can end,-is resolution. For, whenever a furuncu- lous inflammation extends so deeply as to de- stroy any of the cellular substance, the little tumor can never be resolved, or only imper- fectly so. This event, indeed, would rather be hurtful, sinqe there would still remain behind a greater or smaller portion of dead cellular membrane; which, sooner or later, might bring on a renewal of the stye in the same place as before, or else become converted into a hard indolent body, deforming the edge of the eyelid. The resolution of the incipient hordeolum may be effected in that stage of it, in which the inflammation only interests the skin, and not the cellular substance underneath, as is the case on the first appearance of the disease. Now re- pellent, cold applications are useful, particularly ice. But when the hordeolum has aflected, and destroyed, any of the cellular membrane under- neath, every topical repellent application is ab- solutely useless, and even hurtful; and the pa- tient should have recourse to emollient anodyne remedies. The hordeolum and eyelids should be covered with a warm soft bread and milk poul- tice, which ought to be renewed very often. W hen a white point makes its appearance on the apex ot the little tumor, Scarpa says, the sur- geon should not be in a hurry to let out the small quantity of serous matter, which exists between the skin and dead portion of cellular membrane. It is better, that he should wait till the skin, within this white point, has become still some- what thinner, so as to burst of itself, and give a ready vent, not merely to the little serous mat- ter, but to all the dead cellular membrane, which constitutes the chief part of the disease. When t ic contents oi the little tumor are slow in making t ieir way outward, through the opening, the sur- geon, gently compressing the base of the stye, °"ght to force them out. After this, all the symptoms ot the disease will disappear, and the cavity, left by the dead cellular membrane, in the centre of the little tumor, will be found quite filled up, and healed, in the course of twenty- four hours. Sometimes; though seldom, this process of nature, destined to detach the dead from the living cellular membrane, only takes place in- completely, and a small fragment of yellow dead cellular substance still continues fixed in the cavity, and hinders the cure. In this circum- stance, the further employment of emollient poultices is of little or no service. The surgeon should dip the point of a camel-hair pencil in sulphuric acid, and touch the inside of the stye with it, one or more times, until the sloughy cel- lular membrane comes away. After this, the small cavity remaining will soon close. Should the eyelid continue afterwards a little swollen and oedematous, this affection may be removed by applying the lotio plumbi. acet., contain- ing a little spirit of wine. Some persons arevery often annoyed with this disease. Scarpa im- putes this most frequently to a disordered state of the primer. vice, often met with in per- sons who live on acrid irritating food, and drink too much spirits. (Scarpa, sidle Malaltie dcgli Ocelli, cap. 2.) HOSPITAL GANGRENE. (Phagcdccna Gangrccnosa; Putrid, or Malignant Ulcer; Hospital Sore; Gnngrcena Contagiosa.) A severe and peculiar species of humid gangrene, or rather a combination of this affection, with phagedenic ulceration. It is particularly cha- racterized by its contagious or infectious nature; its disposition to attack wounds, or ulcers in crowded hospitals, or other situations, where many of these cases are brought together ; and its tendency to convert the soft parts aflected into a putrid glutinous, or pulpy substance, in which no trace of their original texture is dis- cernible. (Delpcch, Precis Eltm. dcs Mai. Cleir. T. 1, p. 123.) It is generally believed to be communicated from one sore or wound, to another, by its contagious nature ; but, whether the infection can be transferred only by actual contact, or both in this way, and through the medium of the atmosphere, is a question, on which the best authors differ. The first origin of the disease, however, is a mysterious subject, which cannot invariably be explained on any certain principles, as will be hereafter noticed. From the researches of Mr. Blackadder, it ap- pears probable, that several of the ancient writers, in their descriptions of foul, gangrenous bleeding ulcers, must have alluded to the same kind of dis- ease, which is now usually denominated hospital gangrene. Besides the use of the actual cautery, which, according to the modern French writers, is the surest means of arresting this distemper, several of the ancients appear also to have em- ployed for the cure arsenical applications; as, for instance, iEtius, Paulus, Rolandus, Avi- cenna, Guido, &c. The only doubt whether these authors actually referred to hospital gangrene, depends upon their not having generally de- scribed its contagious nature. But. on this point, I would particularly wish the reader to consult Mr. Blackadder’s valuable treatise. (7*. 76, <§r.) Although La Motte made cursory mention of hospital gangrene in 1722, under the name of pourriturc, and stated, that it had occurred in