FRACTURES. 477 Now since this cavity is always accurately filled nearly a month : the injury was attended with so by its contents, these alterations cannot happen many splinters, that when they were removed, in a considerable and sudden manner, without a the pulsations of the heart were visible to a con- risk of the thoracic viscera being contused, and siderable extent. (Leieille, Vul. cit. p. 244.) even ruptured. Thus, when the sternum has The ensiform cartilage, when ossified in old be-m fractured by violent blows on the chest, subjects, is liable to fracture. Little more, how- the heart and lungs have been found severely ever, can be done in such a case, than relaxing contused, and sometimes lacerated; and there the abdominal muscles by raising the thorax and will always be greater danger of such mischief, pelvis, and then applying a piece of soap-plaster when the' fracture is attended with depression of and a roller over the part, for the purpose of one, or more of the fragments. In some cases, keeping it steady. When the blow has been a ]arge quantity of blood is effused in the cellular violent, the patient should always be bled, membrane of the anterior mediastinum, and, in others, the accident is followed by inflammation, fractures of the ribs. and suppuration in the same situation, and necro- sis of the broken part of the bone. Since the lungs are also liable to be ruptured by the same force which causes the fracture, or wounded by the depressed pieces of bone, emphysema may become another complication, as we see exempli- fied in a case related by Flajani. (CuLtezumc d'Osserv. &jc. di Chir. T. 3, p. 214, 8vo. llomu, 1802.) A fracture of the sternum is rendered obvi- ous by the inequalities perceptible, when the sur- face of the bone is examined with the fingers; by a depression, or elevation of the broken pieces; a crepitus and an unusual moveableness of the injured part in respiration. In many cases, the fracture may be seen, the soft parts being torn, or otherwise wounded. The breathing is difficult, and almost always accompanied with cough, spitting of blood, palpitations, and in- ability to fie on the back. According to the observations of Petit and Baldinger, several of these latter symptoms may continue with less intensity, along while after the fracture is cured. (LevciUe Nouvetle Doctrine Chir. T. 2, p. 243.) Fractures of the sternum, when mere solutions of continuity, only require common treatment; viz. a piece of soap-plaster to the situation of the injury, a roller round the chest, quietude, and bleeding, and a low regimen, with a view of pre- venting, what may be considered as the most dangerous consequence, inflammation of the parts within the chest. In cases, attended with great depression of the fractured bone, the necessary incisions should be made, in order to raise with an elevator the por- tions of the bone driven inward, or to extract with forceps any loose splinters, which seem to be similarly circumstanced. However, it is not often necessary to trephine the sternum, either to raise a depressed portion of the bone, or to give vent to extravasated fluid. In the first of these circumstances, I believe with Mr. C. Bell, that the formal application of the trephine can never be right, or necessary, though the surgeon may be called upon to extract loose splinters. (See Operative Surgery, Vol. 2, p. 218.) Such an operation, however, may occasionally be proper when abscesses form under the sternum, or the bone is affected with necrosis, and the natural separation of the diseased parts is likely to oc- cupy a considerable time. Fractures of the sternum are more frequently produced by gun-shot violence, than any other cause, and, in these cases, there are generally many splinters, requiring extraction. At the battle of Marengo, the French general Chain- peux received such a wound, with which he lived These generally happen near the greatest con- vexity of the bones, several of which are often broken together. The first rib, being protected by the clavicle, and the lower ribs being very flexible, are less'liable to be fractured, than the middle ones. When the spicula of a fractured rib is beaten inward, it may lacerate the pleura, wound the lungs, and cause the dangerous train of sym- ptoms attendant on emphysema. (See En.- physema.) A pointed extremity of the rib, projecting inwards, may also cause an extravasation of blood; or, by its irritation, produce inflamma- tion in the chest. A fracture, which is not at all displaced, is very difficult to detect, parti- cularly in fat subjects; and, no doubt, is very frequently never discovered. The surgeon should place his hand on the part, where the patient seems to experience a pricking pain in the mo- tions of respiration, or where the violence has been applied. The patient should then be re- quested to cough, in which action the ribs must necessardy undergo a sudden motion, by which a crepitus will often be rendered perceptible All the best practitioners, however, are in the habit of adopting the same treatment, when there is reason to suspect a rib to be fractured, as if this were actually known to be the case by the occurrence of a crepitus, or the projection of one end of the fracture; which, indeed, in the instances, which are displaced, makes the nature of the accident sufficiently plain. A broken rib cannot be displaced either in the direction of the diameter of the bone, or in that of its length. The ribs, being fixed pos- teriorly to the spine, and anteriorly to the ster- num, cannot become shortened. Nor can one of the broken pieces become higher, or lower, than the other, because the same muscles are attached to both fragments, and keep them at an equal distance from the neighbouring ribs. The only possible displacement is either outward, or in- ward. (Boyer.) Simple fractures of the ribs, free from urgent symptoms, require very simple treatment. The grand object is to keep the broken bones as mo- tionless as possible. For this purpose, after a piece of soap-plaster has been applied to the side, and over it proper compresses, a broad linen roller is to be firmly put round the chest, so as to im- pede the motion of the ribs; and compel the patient to perform respiration chiefly by the de- scent and elevation of the diaphragm. A scapu- lary will prevent the bandage from slipping down- wards. When the fractured part is depressed