506 FUNGUS. actually attempt couching. The disease con- tinuing to increase, the eyeball loses its natural figure, and assumes an irregular knobbv appear- ance. The sclerotica also loses its white colour, and becomes of a dark blue, or livid hue. Some- times, matter now collects between the tumor and the cornea. The latter membrane in time ulcerates, and the fungus shoots out. In a few instances, it makes its way through the sclero- tica, and is then covered by the conjunctiva. The surface of the excrescence is irregular, often covered with coagulated blood, and bleeds pro- fusely from slight causes. When the fungus is very large, the most prominent parts slough away, attended with a fetid sanious discharge. In the course of the disease, the absorbent glands, under the jaw, and about the parotid gland, be- come contaminated. On dissection, a diseased mass is found extending forwards from the en- trance of the optic nerve, the vitreous, crystal- line, and aqueous humours being absorbed. The retina is annihilated, and the choroid coat pro- pelled forwards, or quite destroyed. The tumor seems to consist of a sort of medullar)' matter, resembling brain. The optic nerve is thicker and harder than natural, of a brownish ash-colour, and destitute of its usual tubular appearance. In other cases, the nerve is split into two or more pieces, the interspaces being filled up with the morbid growth. (Wardrop.) Nay, as Mr. Tra- vers has stated, the optic ganglion, tractus op- ticus, and thalamus, have been repeatedly found diseased, and the surrounding adipose substance in the orbit affected to a considerable extent in places also where there was no direct communi- cation with the diseased contents of the globe. (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 221.) Even the brain has been observed to share in the disease, sometimes dark red spots appearing on the dura mater; sometimes small spots, con- taining a fluid like cream, being found between the pia mater and tunica arachnoides. Mr. Travers has a preparation, exhibiting a genuine example of the disease affecting the anterior right lobe of the cerebrum, and protruding the eye from its socket, while the eye itself was perfectly free from disease. {Op. cit. p. 223.) When the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw are enlarged, as they frequently are, they are also found converted into a kind of medullary matter, similar to that which composes the diseased mass in the eyeball. When the skin bursts over a diseased absorbent gland, a sloughy ulcer is pro- duced ; but, no fungus is emitted, unless the affection of the gland with fungus haematodes be primary. Fungus haematodes of the eye has been erroneously regarded as cancer by the best writers. We learn from Bichat, that more than one-third of the patients on whom Desault ope- rated for supposed carcinoma of the eye, were under twelve years of age. Twenty out of twenty-four cases of fungus haematodes of the eye, with which Mr. Wardrop has been acquainted, happened to children under twelve years of age. Now, as cancer is rather a dis- ease of aged, than young persons, and we find, from Mr. Wardrop, that fungus haematodes of the eye mostly affects persons under twelve years of age, it is tolerably certain, that most ol De- sault’s cases, reported to be cancers of the eye, were in fact the equally terrible disease now engaging our consideration. According to Mr) I ravers, the only parts of the eye and its apj pendages, subject to be primarily attacked bj cancer, are the lachrymal gland, conjunctiva, ana eyelids; while the evidence of many cases hat assured him, that fungus hamiatodes may origi) nate in any texture of the eye, with the excep-f tion of the lens and cornea. {Synopsis of thl Diseas/sof the Eye,p. 216, 222, and 421.) Thid account, however, differs from that delivered by* Mr. Wardrop and Professor Scarpa, who de-i scribe the disease as first commencing in the! retina, and particularly at the point, where the! i optic nerve enters the eye. “ For, (says thdj latter author,) on the first appearance of the yel-t > lowish, or greenish spot, the retina on exainina-) tion is found to be entirely deficient, or in othei words, to have degenerated into the malignant) fungus. It is also found, that the choroid mem- brane, while the fungus haematodes is in its inci-j a pient state, does not appear to have suffered any , remarkable alteration in its texture, and that it iijj J only at a more advanced period of the disease* i that this membrane becomes thickened, and) separated from its connexion with the sclerotica) The choroid membrane, even in the most ad-| vanced stage of the disorder, preserves more*! 1 than all others, its natural texture.” (On th-i Principal Diseases of the Eyes, p. 507, Ed. 2.) Ini | cases of fungus haematodes, the sight of youngj > subjects is generally destroyed, before the atten-i I tion of parents is excited to the distemper. Fre-) 1 quently, however, a blow, followed by ophthal-) i my, precedes the growth of the diseased mass.# ■ When no.textemal violence has occurred, the* j first symptom is a trivial fulness of the vessel^ of the conjunctiva, the iris becoming, at the same) time, extremely vascular, and altered in colour,) and the pupil dilated and immoveable. There ia j seldom much complaint made of pain ; but, the* ■ child is sometimes observed to be languid and feverish. In adults, fungus haematodes of the* eye generally comes on without any apparent* cause, though sometimes in consequence of a blow. At first, the tunica conjunctiva is slightly* reddened, and vision indistinct. The redness and obscurity of sight increases slowly, and an) agonizing nocturnal headach is experienced, the) j eye bursts, and the humours are discharged. With regard to the cure of the fungus hasma-. j todes of the eye, the only chance of effecting! j this desirable object depends upon the early ex-i tirpation of the diseased organ. It must be) j acknowledged, however, that most of the opera-) j tions, in which themorbideye has been removed,) have hitherto proved unsuccessful, owing to a recurrence of the disease. The reason of such) ill success may be imputed to the optic nerve) and other parts being almost always in a morbidt : state, before an attempt is made to remove the) eye. One case, however, described by Mr. Tra-) vers, as having its seat in the cellular texture) connecting the conjunctiva to the cornea, was) operated upon, and no recurrence of the disease* had occurred a twelvemonth afterwards. No) other texture was affected more, than the con-) tiguity and extent of the disease explained. (Sy- nopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 413.) The operation lias always been found to fail, when)