IRIS. 719 nited condemnation of the plan of ever attempt- g to replace the iris is contrary to the advice de- Tered bv Beer, as may be seen by referring to e article Cataract, P. 319, where the treat- ent of the protrusion of the iris after the opera- jn of extraction is noticed. And even with re- ect to the prolapsus of the iris from ulceration akin^ its way through the cornea, Beer di- netly states, that, a recent prolapsus of this ud, formed in the second still existing stage of ihthalmy, may not only be lessened by proper eatmcnt, calculated to produce a quick cicatri- ttion of the ulcer, but the iris may be again mpletely removed from the cornea, without y adhesion to the edge of the ulcer taking race. (B. 2, P. 63.1 But where the prolap- . s of the iris remains, as a consequence of pre- ous inflammation of the eye, Beer confesses, at it cannot be cured, without a partial adhe- :m of the iris to the cornea being left, and a ::nse scar on the latter membrane in the situa- on of the protruded iris. ( Vol. cit. p. 66.) In conformity to Scarpa’s principles, there are ro principal indications in the treatment of the :cent prolapsus of the iris. The first is, to di- inish, as speedily as possible, the exquisite sen- bility in the protruded part of the iris; the :her is gradually to destroy the projecting por- on of this membrane, to such a depth, as shall ; sufficient to prevent the little tumor from keep- ; g the edges of the wound, or ulcer of the eor- ija asunder, and retarding cicatrization. The l Ihesion, however, which connects the iris . ith the inside of the cornea, must not be de- royed. For fulfilling these indications, nothing is iore effectual, than touching the portion of the • is projecting from the cornea, with the oxygen- ed muriate of antimony (butter of antimony), ■ with what is more expeditious and convenient, te argentum nitratum, so as to form an eschar f sufficient depth. And, in order that this ope- ition may be effected with quickness and preei- ;on, it is necessary that an assistant, standing : ehind the patient’s head, should support the pper eve-lid with Pellier’s elevator; and that le patient should keep his eye steadily fixed on ne object. While the assistant gently raises the upper ye-lid, the surgeon must depress the lower one, ■ith the index and middle fingers of his left hand; nd, with the right, he is to be ready to touch the ttle prominence formed by the iris, with the ar- entum nitratum, scraped to a point like a pen- : il. This is to be applied to the centre of the ttle tumor, until an eschar of sufficient depth is ormed. The pain which the patient experiences t this moment, is very acute; but, it subsides s soon as the eye is bathed with warm milk, he caustic, in destroying the projecting portion f the iris, destroys the principal organ of sensi- i'ity, by covering it with an eschar, of sufficient epth to protect the part affected from the effect f the friction of the eye-lids, and from coming nto contact with the air and tears. This is the eason, not only why the sense of pricking and onstriction in the eye abates after the applica- ion of the caustic, but also why the inflammation 'f the conjunctiva undergoes a considerable dimi- ’otion, a* well as the burning and copious effu- :lon of tears. As in the case of ulcer of the cornea, these advantages only last while the eschar remains ad- herent to the little tumor formed by the iris ; when it falls off', as it usually does two or three days after the use of the caustic, all the above- mentioned symptoms are rekindled, with this dif- ference, that they are less intense and acute, than they were previously, and the tumor of the iris is not so prominent as it was before the cau- stic was applied. When these symptoms make their appearance, the surgeon must once more have recourse to the argentum nitratum, with the precautions explained above; and he is to employ it a third, and even a fourth time, as oc- casion may require, until the prominent portion of the iris is sufficiently reduced to a level with the edges of the w’ound, or ulcer of the cornea, and no obstacle is left to the granulating process, and complete cicatrization. There is a certain period, beyond which, the application of caustic to the protruded iris be- comes exceedingly dangerous, though at first it may have been highly beneficial; beyond which, the eschar, which previously soothed the pain, exasperates it, and re-produces the inflammation of the conjunctiva in almost as vehement a de- gree as in the beginning of the disease. This appears to Scarpa to be the case, whenever the surgeon continues to employ the caustic, after the little tumor of the iris has been destroyed to a level with the external edges of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, and the application begins to destroy the granulations just as they are ori- ginating. Hence, as soon as the surgeon per- ceives, that the part of the iris, projecting from the cornea, is sufficiently lowered, and that the application of the argentum nitratum, far from allaying, only irritates the disease, he must de- sist entirely from using-the caustic, and be con- tent with introducing between the eyre and eye- lids, every two hours, the collyrium zinci sul- phatis with the mucilage of quince-seeds. Every morning and evening, Janin’s ophthalmic oint- ment, weakened with a double, or triple propor- tion of lard, is to be applied. If the stimulus of such local remedies should not disturb the work of nature, the ulcer gradually diminishes, and heals in the course of a fortnight. The adhesion, which the projecting part of the iris contracts to the internal margin of the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, during the treat- ment, continues the same after the perfection of the external cicatrix, and of course during the rest of the patient’s life. Hence, even after the most successful treatment of the prolapsus of the iris, the pupil remains a little inclined towards the place of the scar in the cornea, and of an oval figure. The change in the situation and shape of the pupil, however, causes little or no diminu- tion of the patient's faculty of discerning di- stinctly the smallest objects; and is much less detrimental to the sight, than one, inexperienced in these matters, might conceive; provided the scar on the cornea be not too extensive, nor si- tuated exactly in the centre of this membrane. In the first case, the sight is the less obstructed, as the pupil, which, on the t first occurrence of the prolapsus, was narrow, oblong, and drawn considerably towards the wound, or ulcer, gradu- ally enlarges, and forms a less contracted oval. As soon as the wound is completely healed, the