1025 TETANUS. rJering upon the sen, than in places which : vary drv, elevated, and at a distance from . sea-coast. Every class of individuals is ex- ied to its attacks; hut infants, a few days after ir birth, and middle-aged persons, are said be oftener affected, than older subjects, or . ers in the youthful period of life. The male more frequently suller, than tiie female; I the robust and vigorous more frequently, [ n the weaker. ; 'According to Dr. Cullen and other medical [ .ters, the causes of tetanus, are cold and mois- t e, applied to the body, while it is very warm, especially the sudden vicissitudes of heat and id. Or the disease is produced by punctures, t orations, or other injuries. Cullen admits, j t rever, that there are probably some other ! ; ses, which are not distinctly known. 3aron Larrcy observed, that gunshot wounds .he course of the nerves, and injuries of the its, often produced tetanus in the climate of ypt, particularly when the weather, or tem- ature, passed from one extreme to the other, damp situations, and in those which were aeent to the Nile, or the sea. What he ns dry and irritable temperaments, were the st subject to the disorder, the event of which ; found to be almost always fatal. (Larrcy, . ct Loc. cit.) Traumatic tetanus is remarked to proceed tner from wounds of the extremities, than n similar injuries of the trunk, head, and neck, ".oelimes, it originates at the moment of the dent, as in the instance mentioned by the Professor Robison of Edinburgh; but, in eral, it does not come on till several days - rwards, sometimes not till the wound is cly or perfectly healed, and free from all \ and uneasiness. Wounds of every de- ption may give rise to tetanus, and in warm lates, very trivial injuries produce it Thus, Jgypt, Larrey had one case, which proceeded a the lodgment of a small piece of fish-bone me of the sinuses of the fauces. {Mem. de ■rurgie Militairc, T. 1, p. 254.) There be no doubt, however, that in colder regions, imatie tetanus seldom happens except from tused, punctured, or lacerated wounds; or nds of the ginglirnoid joints, with laceration _ he tendons and ligaments; compound frac- as, or dislocations; deep pricks in the sole of foot; and especially lacerations of the fingers “ toes. A partial division of a nerve has i suspected as a cause; but, as some nerves t be imperfectly cut through in almost every nd, and yet tetanus does not arise, the reality his cause is doubtful. Resides, if it were , the cure would be easily effected by making division of the nerve complete, which ex- nice contradicts. Baron Larrey, however, recorded a fact, which favours the opinion, shall presently notice. The inclusion of nerves in the ligatures applied to arteries is ’ her alleged cause of tetanus; but, as this is very common, and tetanus rather rare in country, while it may follow all sorts of nds, whether accidents, or operations, the racy of this opinion may also be doubled, upport of it, however, there are some cases ooservations adduced by Larrey, which will noted in the sequel of this article. (Sec T. IS, of his Mem. de Chir. Mil.) I do not mean to hint, however, that the nerves are not sometimes tied in tetanic cases, or that the prac- tice is not on every account blameable. Am- putation and castration are the only great sur- gical operations to which I have seen tetanus succeed; though it may follow the employment of the knife on less severe occasions. In warm countries, tetanus is an ordinary consequence of all kinds of wounds. There cannot be a doubt, that difference of climate makes considerable difference in the de- gree and danger of tetanus. Larrey found, that, in Egypt, the disease was more intense, and bore a greater resemblance to hydrophobia, than in the colder climate of German}'. In both these countries, lie remarked, that, when the wounds, causing tetanus, injured nerves situated on the forepart of the body, emprosthotonos was occasioned; that if the posterior nerves were hurt, opisthotonos followed; and that when the wound extended quite through a limb, so as to injure equally both descriptions of nerves, com- plete tetanus ensued. He noticed, also, that the disease commonly arose from wounds, when the seasons and temperature passed from one extreme to another. Exposure to the cold damp nocturnal air, he found particularly con- ducive to it (See Mem. dc Chir urgig Militairc, T. 3, p. 286.) In the late campaigns of our armies in Spain and Portugal, according to the report of Sir James Maegrigor, tetanus occurred in every de- scription, and in every stage of wounds, from the slightest to the most formidable: it followed the healthy and the sloughing ; the incised and the lacerated; the most simple and the most com- plicated. It occurred at uncertain periods; but, it was remarked, that, if it did not commence before 22 days, from the date of the wound, the patient was safe. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6. p. 453.) In Egypt, as we learn from Larrey, the latest period of the commencement of tetanus after a wound, was from the fifth to the fifteenth day. {Mem. dc Chir. Militairc, T. I, p. 2G3.) It is observed by Dr. Dickson, that as the acute form of tetanus is so uniformly fatal, it is of the greatest consequence to attend to what- ever tnav assist in detecting the disease eariv, or in warding it off'. Richerand states, that, in wounds threatening convulsions and tetanus, a persevering extension of the limbs during sleep often manifests itself, before any affection of the lower jaw; and we should naturally pay more attention to any admonition of this kind in punctured, or extensive lacerated wounds, par- ticularly of tendinous, or ligamentous parts, and especially in injuries of the feet, hands, knee- joint, back, &c. Some prelusive indications of danger may often be derived from the increase of pain, irritation, restlessness, nervous twitch- ings, pain and difficulty in deglutition, or in turning the head ; spasms, or partial rigidity of some of the voluntary muscles; pain at the scro- biculus cordis; a suppressed, or vitiated state of the discharge, &c. which mark the slower ap- proaches of the disease. Larrey adduces several instances of tetanus, in which the wound was either dry, or afforded only a scanty serous exudation, and where the symptoms were re- lieved on suppuration being re-established; and 3 U