1027 TETANUS. m-h speedy relief and a cure followed cutting 'all communication between the nerves of the unded part and the sensorium by a suitable •ision. in this place I think it right to remind the der, that although Baron Larrey once or ee amputated when acute tetanus was some- it advanced, he does not advise the practice, he expressly restricts his sanction of am- ation to chronic or quite incipient cases of nus, and to a few instances, in which the ^glimoid joints are fractured, accidents, which ependently of tetanus would generally require operation. (See Mem. de Chir. MU. 3 ) The report of Sir James Maegrigor >* confirms the statement of Larrey; namely, : free incisions are of little avail in the acute fully formed disease, and that amputation ; in the same kind of case. After the buttle Toulouse this operation was extensively tried; without success. The French are also said nave lost an immense number of soldiers from nus after the battle of Dresden, when Sir les infers that the practice of amputation 5t have been fairly tried. (See Medico- •rurgical Traits. Vol. 6, p. 456.) We have i, however, that according to the precepts of rev, the French surgeons would only have ormed the operation in chronic cases, which not the most frequent, or if in other instances, r on the very first accession of the symptoms. , upon the whole, notwithstanding the partial •eeofsuccess, attending Larrey’s experiments, ve no hesitation in declaring my belief, that utation of the injured part iu cases of chronic ius will never be extensively adopted. The ■rtain efficacy of this severe measure, and the isional possibility of curing this form of the plaint by milder plans, will for ever constitute iperable arguments against the practice, ince the last edition of this Dictionary was ted. Sir Astley Cooper has published his merits, respecting the plan of amputating in s of tetanus, and they tend to confirm the ion, which I have always given upon the ect. In one case of tetanus, from a com- id fracture just above the ankle, the opera- seemed to precipitate the fatal event. In her case, the finger was amputated, without good; and a third case is referred to, in h the operation also failed in saving the nt’s life. In chronic tetanus, amputation is 'ded by Sir A. Cooper as unjustifiable, as atient often recovers without this procecd- The medicine, which has appeared to this eman most useful in such cases, is the .sub- ate of mercury, joined with opium. {Sur- ’ Essays, Part 2, p. 190.) i the subject of making incisions for the osc of separating the nerves of the wounded from the sensorium, Larrey states, that should be practised before inflammation -ome on ; for if this has made progress, would be useless and even dangerous, should comprehend, as much as possible, e nervous filaments and membranous parts ; e condemns all incisions into joints, as ex- ating the symptoms of tetanus, instances of 1 he has witnessed. The Baron has re- . some convincing proofs of the benefit, times arising from completely dividing the trunk of the injured nerve. In one instance, tetanic symptoms followed an injury of the su- praorbitary nerve, but were immediately stopped by dividing some of the fibres of the occipito- frontalis, and the nerves and vessels, down to the bone. On the principle of destroying the parts, which are the seat of the local irritation, Baron Larrey also frequently applied the actual and potential cautery to the wound. The application of caustics, says he, may be practised with ad- vantage on the first attack of the symptoms, the same precept being observed as in making the incisions. Bleeding, if necessary, and the use of topical emollients and anodynes, may follow these operations; though in general they have little effect. {Mem. dc Chir. Militaire, T. 1, p. 249.) In the third volume of this interest- ing work, p. 297, &c. are several cases, in which the cautery was emp’oyed with success. We must not conclude, however, that much de- pendence ought to be placed in the use of the cautery, since Larrey observes in another place: “ The moxa and actual cautery, recommended by the Father of Medicine, have been equally un- availing. The moxa was employed at Jaffa upon three wounded men; the disease notwithstanding followed its usual course, and terminated fatally. “ I have cited a striking instance of the in- efficacy of the second method, in a case of opisthotonos.” (T. 1, p. 258.) This author also adduces some cases, which tend to support the opinion, that tetanus occasionally proceeds from the inclusion of a large nerve in the liga- ture applied to an artery. The son of General Darrnagnac died of tetanus consequent to am- putation, and upon examining the stump, the median nerve was found included in the ligature with the artery, and its extremity reddish and swollen. {Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 3, p. 287.) In another case, Larrey suspected the tetanic disorder to proceed from a principal branch of the crural nerve being lied together with the femoral artery, and he cut the ligature; but, the relief was only partial and temporary. The cautery was therefore applied deeply to the whole surface of the stump. A marked amend- ment took place a few hours afterwards, and the patient recovered. A diaphoretic mixture, with camphor and opium, was also exhibited. (T. 3, p. 297.) Amongst other local means for the relief of tetanus, we might as well notice the employ- ment of blisters as near as possible to the wound, or their application, or that of the ointment of cantharides, to the wound itself. Almost all modern writers have observed, that tetanus is accompanied at its commencement and in its progress with an interruption, or total cessation of suppuration in the wound. Hence, the in- dication to excite this process again by the means which I have specified. Larrey seems to have adopted both plans; but he particularly applied the ointment of cantharides to the wound itself in an early stage of the symptoms, and in cases where there not only was a suppression of the discharge, but where he suspected the nerves of the wounded part had suffered from exposure to the cold damp air, on the detachment of the sloughs. For facts, in favour of these local means, the reader must refer to the first and 3 U 2