1116 URINE, RETENTION OF, With respect to the fit manner and time of employing the several means for fulfilling the above indications, and the selection which should be made of them, these are important considera- tions, which vary in different cases, and actually cannot be understood, without due reference to the causes and circumstances of each individual case. A part of this subject belongs also to other parts of this work, to which, in order to avoid the ne- cessity of repetition, I here refer. (See Catheter; Bladder, Puncture of; Prostate Gland, Dis- eases of; Urethra, Strictures of; <£c.) With resppet to catheters, we shall find, that some cases require the urine to be drawn off two or three times a day, and the instrument to be taken out after each evacuation; while, in other instances, it is prudent to keep the tube con- tinually introduced. Here one general caution may be conveniently offered, which is, never to let a silver catheter remain in the passage more than a week, or ten days, without taking it out, and cleaning it; for, if this be not done, the in- strument becomes coated with deposits from the urine, so as afterwards not to admit of being withdrawn through the urethra, without great suffering and irritation. The eye in the beak is also apt to become completely blocked up; and sometimes the pressure, which the catheter makes on the part of the urethra, corresponding to the root of the penis, in front of the scrotum, causes in this situation inflammation, followed by a slough as large as a crown piece, and an open- ing, formed by the loss of substance, is left, which may even continue fistulous during the patient’s life. These remarks particularly ap- ply to metallic catheters; but, such as are sup- posed to be made of elastic gum, especially those ordinarily met with in the shops, are apt to spoil and become blocked up with mucus, if not taken out, and cleaned, or changed, every five or six days. However, as I have mentioned in the article, Prostate Gland, Diseases of, Mr. Weiss has succeeded in constructing elastic catheters, which will bear being retained more than a fort- night in the urethra, without becoming obstructed, besides having the advantage of always retaining a due curve. 1. Of the Retention of Urine, to which per- sons of ad vanced age arc liable.—This disorder is so common in elderly persons, that it is gene- rally allowed to be one of the grievances, to which their period of life is particularly exposed. In them, the bladder is less irritable, than in younger subjects, and hence, it is not so soon stimulated by the presence of the urine. In fact, it is not until a painful sensation arises from the distention of the coats of the bladder, that the patient is aware of the occasion to discharge the urine. The bladder then contracts; but, still would not be able to expel its contents, were it not for the powerful action of the abdominal muscles. Nor is the expulsion of the urine even now complete; since the bladder no longer re- 4nine u.p nnwpr of effacine the whole of itscavi- tains the power of effacing ty. On the contrary, after each evacuation, some urine is still left undischarged, and already con- stitutes an incipient retention. I he quantity daily augments, and at length, not more than half the fluid contained in the bladder, is voided ticularly attacks old subjects of a plethoric state of body, and of sedentary and studious habits. It also especially afflicts those, who, from care- lessness, or indolence, do not take time enough to expel the last drops of urine; and others, who are accustomed to discharge their urine into a pot, as they lie in bed, instead of rising for the purpose. In these cases, the urethra, and neighbouring parts, seem to be free from every disease, capable of preventing the issue of the urine; which has always come away freely, and in a full stream, although it could not be discharged with the same force, nor to the same distance, as formerly. At length, instead of describing an arch as it flows out, it falls down perpendicularly between the legs. Towards the close of the evacuation, the patient is also not sensible of the final con- tractile effort of the bladder, of which he used to be conscious in his younger days. When he is about to make water, he is obliged to wait some time, before the evacuation commences; and as the disorder increases, he cannot make water, without considerable efforts; the quantity of urine, voided each time, manifestly decreases; the desire to empty the bladder becomes more and more frequent; and, lastly, the urine only comes away by drops, and an incontinence succeeds a retention. In this state, the patient’s sufferings are not very great. The tumor, formed by the bladder above the pubes, is indolent, and, if it be pressed upon with some force, a certain quantity of urine is discharged from the urethra. The retention of urine, arising from old age, is seldom complete: the urine, after having filled and distended the bladder, dribbles out of the urethra, so [that the patient voids as much of this fluid in a given time, as he does in a state of health. Nor is this species of retention of urine commonly attended with very urgent sym- ptoms. It does not occasion, like complete re- tention, a suppression of the urinary secretion in the kidneys; and as the urine escapes through the urethra, after the bladder is distended to a certain degree, the disorder is less apt to pro- duce a rupture of this organ, and dangerous ex- travasations of the urine. The swelling of the bladder then continues, without any particular suffering, except a sense of weight about the pubes and perineum. These circumstances have often led to serious mistakes, and the l disease has been set down as an abscess, or dropsy. The indications are to evacuate the urine, ; and restore the tone of the bladder. W hen the ; retention is incipient, the proper action of the ’ bladder will sometimes return after cold applica- j tions are made to the hypogastric region, or . thighs, and the patient goes from a warm into a cool place in order to make water. The patient must also be strictly careful to make water immediately the least inclination to do so is felt; for, if this precaution be neglected, the bladder grows more and more inert; the desire to make water subsides; and the retention, which at first consisted of only a few drops, very soon becomes complete. It would then be in vain, as Desault observes, to try the expedients i\ ill nnW