130 ANEURISM. aneurism of the abdominal aorta The patient was a boy, belonging to Christ’s Hospital, and under the care of the late Mr. Iiamsden, surgeon to that establishment, by whose discernment the real nature of the case was detected. It is curi- ous, that, in this instance, the pulsations of the swelling suddenly ceased, after having continued in a very strong and manifest way, and without interruption, for several weeks, during which it was under the observation of the above eminent practitioner. As Mr. Wilson has observed, any encysted, or even solid tumour, situated in the neighbourhood of, or upon a large artery, may have a consider- able degree of motion communicated to it from the pulsation of the artery. The thyroid gland, when a bronchoeele is formed, occasionally re- ceives a pulsatory motion from the carotid arte- ries. This may be mistaken for an aneurism, from which disease, however, it can be discriminated by placing our fingers behind the tumour, and draw- ing it forwards when th ■ pulsation ceases. But, there are other criteria for distinguishing a swell- ing, on or near an artery, from an aneurism. In such a case, the whole tumour moves at once, without any alteration of size. In an aneurism, the swelling does not simply move, il expands. A tumour of the thyroid gland, ha ing apparent- ly a pulsatory motion, may be known not to be an aneurism of the carotid, by observing, that, from i's connection with the larynx, it follows the movements ofihe latter in deglutition. Aneurisms, which are not of very long standing, and do not contain a large mass of laminated coagula, may also be diminished, or rendered more or less flac- cid, by pressing the artery leading to the disease. (See Wilson’s Lectures on the Blood, Anatomy Pathology, §r. of the Vascular System, y. 385, and Bums on the Heart, p. 257.) The following case, recorded by Pelletan, shews, that an artery running more superficially, than natural, may, under particular circum- stances, give rise to the suspicion of an aneurism. A strong robust man, about forty years of age, was in the habit of going on foot to dine three leagues from Paris, every day, on the completion of his business. One day, having been this dis- tance, and returned, he felt an acute pain along the leg, and in the right ankle. The pain did not subside, and a tumour appeared at the lower third of the leg, opposite the space between the two bones. The skin was of a yellowish colour from effused blood, and a pulsation existed, by which the hand of an examiner was lifted up. There seemed every reason for concluding, that the case was an aneurismal swelling. In com- paring the affected limb with the sound one, however, Pelletan perceived in the latter a simi- lar kind of throbbing. In short, in both legs, the pulsation of an arterial tube could be felt for three inches, and, Pelletan distinctly ascertained, that in the diseased member, the throbbing did not extend to the whole of the tumour, but only lengthwise. By a particular disposition in this individual, the anterior tibial artery, which usu- ally runs along the interosseous ligament, covered bv the tibialis anticus, and extensor communis digitorum pedis, came out from between these muscles, at the middle of the leg, and lay imme- diately under the skin and the fascia. The pa- tient, curious about the circumstance, which had been mentioned to him, examined the legs of ihe whole of his family j and it appeared, that his daughter was the only one, in whom the anterior tibial artery ran directly under the skin, in the same way, as it did in himself. By confining the patient to his bed. says Pel- letan, we were soon convinced, that the disease was not an aneurism; for the swelling and eechy- mosis were gradually dispersed, and. it is more than probable, that the symptoms originated from the rupture of some muscular fibres, in the exertion of walking so great a distance. (See Pel- lettin's Clinique Chi.rurtrienh. T. J, />. 101, 102.) Whenever an aneurismal sac of an immoderate size beats violently, and, for a long while against a bone, as the sternum, ribs, clavicle, and verte- brae, the bones are in the end invariably destroyed, so that the aneurismal sac elevates the integu- ments of the thorax, or back, and pulsates im- mediately under the skin. Scarpa, with the best modern writers, attributes the effect to absorp- tion, in consequence of tiie pressure. J. L- Petit saw the condyles of the femur, and the upper head of the tibia, almost de- stroyed by an aneurism of the popliteal artery; and another case, in which the caries and absorp- tion of bone were very extensive, is reported by Rosemnuller. (An him" zu Scarp a iih. tl. Pnl- macraeschrculste, />. 364.) According to Mr. Hodgson, the carious and corroded* state of the bones in aneurism is never attended with the form- ation of pus ; at least, the discovery of pus in its vicinity has not been remarked by those, who have examined such cases. In this respect, therefore, it differs essentially from common caries, or ulceration of bones. Exfoliation also is very-rarely attendant upon it; from which circumstance, one important practical observa- tion is deducible, namelyg that if the aneurism be cured, the bones will recover their healthy state, without undergoing those processes, which tahe place in the cure of caries or necrosis.” (On the Diseases of Arteries anti Veins, p. 80.) The same author confirms the remark made by Dr. W. Hunter, (Med. Ohs. and Inquiries, 1 id. y. 348 ;) Scarpa, (On Aneurism, p. 100, El. 2.) and others, that cartilage is less rapidly destroyed by the pressure of an aneurism than bone. This fact is strikingly illustrated in a case of aneu- rism of the thoracic aorta, recorded in another modern publication : the bodies of the vertebrae from the fourth down to the ninth were carious; the four lowermost particularly so; yet, the intervertebral cartilages were not materially af- fected. (F. L. Kreysin, Die Krankheiten tits Herzens, P. 3, />. 176, 8eo. Berlin. 1817.) A case is related by Pelletan, which is highly interesting, not only as exemplifying the degree, in which internal aneurisms may injure the ver- tebrae ; but also as shewing the occasional pos- sibility of such diseases being mistaken for rheu- matism, or a lumbar abeess, with or without caries of the spine. After various complaints, like those of rheu- matism, an oval tumour, imperfectly circum- scribed, presented itself in the right iliac region, in the track of the psoas muscle. It was at- tended with a distinct fluctuation, and might easily have been mistaken for a collection of matter. But, on attentive examination, pulsations were felt, which, as they increased from day to