CALCULL 1096 URINARY Calculi are sometimes found in the ureters, especially at the upper part; but, it is not sup- posed that they are originally formed there; an event not likely to happen, unless there were some cause retarding the descent of the urine through those tubes. The common belief is, that all calculi, found in the ureter, are first pro- duced in the infundibula and pelvis of the kid- ney, from which they afterwards descend with the urine. The generality of calculi, however, which leave the kidney, are of small size, and, conse- quently, after a time, and exciting some pain and inconvenience, they usually pass into the cavity of the bladder. Indeed, as Dr. Marcet remarks, the bladder is the most frequent seat of calculi; not only because all urinary concretions, or their nuclei, formed in the kidneys, tend to fall into that organ ; but, also, because a stone may be, and probably often is, originally formed in the bladder itself. Renal concretions vary considerably in their number, size, and shape. In some cases, a sin- gle small calculus has been found occupying one of the foregoing situations ; while, in other in- stances, an innumerable collection of calculous substances are observed filling the whole of the cavity of the pelvis and infundibula of the kid- ney, distending itsparietes, and even obstructing the passage of the urine out of this viscus, which is converted into a sort of membranous cyst. Lastly, a single stone in the kidney may acquire a very large size there ; or, a great number of small calculi, in the same situation, may become cemented together, so as to form one mass of enormous dimensions, and the shape of which invariably corresponds to the space, in which it is, as it were, moulded. Hence, renal calculi often present a variety of odd, irregular figures, resembling these commonly observed in speci- mens of coral. It has been already remarked, that urinary concretions of large size very often exist in the kidney, without their presence being indicated by any external circumstances, or attended with any symptoms, sufficiently unequivocal to con- stitute a ground for suspecting the importance of their cause. On the other hand, it is very usual for renal calculi, of middling dimensions, to excite serious and alarming complaints. The reason of this difference becomes obvious, when it is recollected, that smallish concretions are readily carried with the urine into the ureter, and become fixed in the narrow portion of the tube. But, very large calculi can be contained only in the upper part of this canal, where its parietes are more yielding, and the space in them more capacious. Calculi, of middling size, in their passage through the ureter, cause, at first, a feeling of heaviness, or an indeterminate sense of uneasi- ness, and an obtuse pain in the region of the corresponding kidney. Ihese complaints occur at intervals of greater, or less duration. At length, the pain grows more urgent and annoy- ing, attended with flatulence, heart-burn, fre- quent vomiting, painful retraction of the testicle, and sometimes acute fever. The patient makes water frequently, and in small quantities at a timet nnH tlipurinp ishiirh-eolourcd and bloodv. bent forwards towards the affected side. These symptoms may have more or less duration, and then suddenly cease. They may also subside, and recur several times successively, with inter- vals of some days. In the latter case, the pain is felt at each attack to be situated lower in the track of the ureter. Lastly, when the symptoms have entirely disappeared, the urine is more abundant, not so high-coloured, and easily dis- charged, the stream sometimes bringing out with it the urinary concretion, after its entrance into the bladder. Suppuration of the kidney, and an abscess in the lumbar region, in consequence of renal cal- culi, are not very common events. However, these are the only eases of the kind, in which the interposition of surgery can be useful. By ad- verting to previous circumstances, and irregu- larity of the pain about the kidney, the practi- tioner may suspect the nature of a phlegmonous tumor in the situation of this viscus. Whatever may be his conjectures, however, be must care- fully abstain from the use of his lancet, until purulent matter is plainly under the integuments. He may then safely make an opening, from which urine and pus will be discharged, and through which the calculi themselves may some- times be felt and extracted. If they should not be readily touched with a probe, let not the sur- geon rashly conceive, that he is justified in en- deavouring to discover them with his knife. Their situation may be such as to baffle all his endeavours, and the operation itself might cause a most dangerous hemorrhage, and other fatal mischief. The opening of an abscess of the kidney may remain a long while fistulous, and the circumstance indeed warrant the conclusion, that the healing is prevented by the presence of some extraneous substances ; but, a prudent practitioner will never think of performing any operation for their extraction, unless they can be distinct!}'felt and nature has brought them toler- ably near to the surface. (See Nephrotomy.) 'Urinary calculi, which form upon foreign bodies, accidentally introduced into the blad- der, and acting as nuclei, are always single, un- less the number of foreign bodies themselves happen to be greater. It is curious also to find, from the observations of Mr. Murray Forbes, (On Gravel and Gout, p. 74, Svo.Lond. 1793,) and Dr. Marcet, that, in such instances, the de- position, most frequently, if not always, consists of the earthy phosphates, and especially of the fusible calculus. Thus, in the collection of Mr. R. Smith, of Bristol, there is a pin, a piece of bougie, and four pieces of stick, coated with fusible matter. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11, p. 11.) But, when calculi originate from a par- ticular diathesis, there may be many of them lodged in the bladder at the same time. Se- veral distinct nuclei may descend successively from the kidneys, and each may increase in a separate manner. Sometimes, however, calculi in the bladder, which are at first distinct and un- connected, become afterwards cemented toge- ther, so as to make only one mass. The magnitude of calculi in the bladder is generally in an inverse ratio to their number. Some hundreds have been found in one bladder; but thev were not lamer than a pea. It is ub-