CASTRATION. 283 la cverv operation, in which a considerable wrtion of skin is to be divided, and particularly n this, and in the amputation of women’s breasts, t should always be remembered, that, as the di- vision of the skin (the general organ of sensa- .ion) is the most acute and painful part of what s done bv the knife, it cannot be done too quick- v and should always be done at once : the scro- um should constantly be divided to the bottom, nd the circular incision in the skin of a breast Iwavs made quite round, before any thing else be bought of. If this be not executed properly, nd perfectly, the operation will be attended with great deal of pain which might be avoided, and he operator will be justly blameable. (Puff.) When the diseased testicle is exceedingly large, r a part of the scrotum is diseased, the surgeon hould take care to remove the redundant, or aorbid portion of the skin, by including the iece, which he designs to take away, within two mg elliptical incisions, which are to meet at the pper and lower part of the swelling. In this aanner, as Mr. Samuel Sharp has observed, the emorrhage will be much less, the operation ■really shortened, the sloughing of the distended kin prevented, and the recurrence of cancerous isease rendered less likely. (See Treatise of the operation-, chap. 10.) Mr. Lawrence concurs with M. de la Faye in linking it best in this operation always to remove ■ u large piece of the scrotum with the testicle, by hich means the surface of the wound is Jessen- 1. (See Med. Cmv. Trans. VoL. 6, p. 196‘.) If the tumor be of a pyriform figure, perfectly nooth, and equal in its surface, and free from lin, notwithstanding the degree of hardness may )| e great, and the surgeon may, in his own opi- ion, be clear that the tumor is not produced by ater, but is a true scirrhus, let him, immediate- r previous to the operation, pierce the anterior art with a trocar, in order to be certain. “ My eason for giving this advice is, that 1 was once a deceived by every apparent circumstance of a •ue, equal, indolent scirrhus, that I removed a ;sticle, which proved upon examination to be so ttle diseased, that, had I pierced it with a trocar revious to the operation, I could, and certainly louid have preserved it” (Putt.) It is well known, that the agony of tying the >rd is immensely increased by including the vas jferens, and, as no good results from so doing, M ic practice deserves the severest reprobation, ] ^withstanding the opposite opinion of Mr. Pear- >n, (Piact. Ohs. on Cancer, p. 74.) and the riter of the article Castration in Rees’s Cyclo- edia. , Cases are even recorded, in which the inclusion the whole of the spermatic cord appears to ive occasioned severe and perilous consequences, id these in so great a degree, that it has been j und necessary to cut and remove the ligature, ometimes, says Petit, patients, on whomcastra- >n has been performed, suffer more or less ute pain in the kidneys. The suffering often be- >mes insupportable and highly dangerous, the •lly being swelled, tense, and painful; the pa- mt being affected with syncopes, and affections the heart, sometimes with vomiting, and a re- ntion of urine; lastly, an universal inflamma- "n of the belly, and a violent fever, accorn- mied with delirium, arc occasionally the fatal consequences of this operation. Petit was re- quired to visit a patient, who had been in this de- plorable state for twenty-four hours, after having suffered castration, and this distinguished sur- geon could impute the sudden and violent sym- ptoms to nothing, except the ligature on the sper- matic cord; consequently, lie advised, the liga- ture to be removed. The patient received some slight relief from this step, and, after having been bled twice within a short space of time, he found himself a great deal better; but, as the dressings became wet with blood, apprehension of bleeding began to be entertained. Petit, therefore, had recourse to moderate compression of the cord, in the manner above related. No hemorrhage en- sued ; the case afterwards went on well; and the patient recovered sooner, than was expected. ( Truitt dts Maladies Cliir. Tom. 2, p. 527, 528.) In the operation of removing a testicle, one caution seems particularly necessary, viz. if the cord should be at all enlarged, the surgeon ought carefully to examine, whether the augmentation of its size may not be owing to a portion of in- testine, or omentum, that is contained within it. ( SeeSabatier’s Medicine Operauiire,Tom. I, p. 332, Edii. 1,) In one case of extirpation of the tes- ticle,“ after the operation was completed, and the wound dressed, the patient being seized with a fit of coughing, to the astonishment and dismay of the surgeon, the dressings were forced off by a protrusion of several convolutions of small in- testines ; from this, it was proved, that the pa- tient had had a hernia; but, the diseased en- largement of the testicle had acted as a truss, and prevented the rupture from coming down.” (See Operative Swrgtrp, by C. Bell, VoL l, p. '226, also p. 224.) There is another circumstance, which merits attention in the performance of this operation : when there are reasons, which oblige us to divide the cord high up, and this part has not been tied before such division is made, it may be drawn up by the cremaster within the abdominal ring, and some difficulty may be experienced in securing the spermatic arteries. Mr. B. Bell saw this happen twice, and the patients lost their lives from hemorrhage. Hence, when it is necessary to cut through the cord near the ring; perhaps, it may be best always to apply the ligature first, observing not to include the vas deferens. How- ever, were the cord, previously to the application of ligatures to its arteries, to happen in any in- stance to be drawn up within the ring, a surgeon would be guilty of most supine neglect to let the patient die of bleeding; for, as Mr. C. Bell has remarked, we may follow the cord with perfect safety, even to the origin of the cremaster, which pulls it up, if attention be paid to the course of the cord, obliquely upward and outward, within the inguinal canal. It sometimes happens, that abscesses form in the remains of the spermatic cord, after the ope- ration of castration. Such suppuration may fre- quently be prevented by the employment of bleeding directly after the operation, and repeat- ing the evacuation on the first access of the in- flammation of the part concerned. Besides ve- nesection, low diet, neutral salts, diluents, See. are indicated, and the part should be covered with an emollient poultice. When pus is completely formed, the abscess should lie opened.