BRONCHOCELE. 2 35 beginning witii the powders. Prosser puts no faith in external applications. Some have recommended giving two scruples of calcined egg-shells, every morning, in a glass of red-wine; half a drachm of the sulphuret of potash every day, dissolved in water ; or ten, or fifteen drops of the tine', digit, purimr. twice a day, the dose to be gradually increased. Muriated barytes; cicuta; and belladonna, have also been exhibited. Postiglione commends the muriate of lime as a medicine possessing the greatest effi- caev against this disease. He makes the remedy into a bolus with honey, towhich he sometimes adds burnt sponge and cinnamon ia powder. He em- ploys also frictions with flannel, liniments, and sometimes purges with calomel. The bolus is placed under the tongue, and allowed to dissolve there. (P. 5,9, 6)C.) Sir J. Wylie, physician to the Emperor of Russia, adopts the following treatment:—He directs S grains of the sub-muriate of mercury, ;> of the ammoniacal muriate of iron, 4 of burnt sponge, and 10 of the bark of laurus cassia. This powder is to he divided into twelve doses, one ot which is given twice a week, with a gentle ano- dyne at night. Sir J. Wylie likewise prescribes twenty four lozenges, made by triturating an ounce of burnt sponge, with an equal quantity of the powder of gum arabic, and fifteen grains of cinnamon, first blended with a sufficient quan- tity of the syrup of orange peel. One of these lozenges is to be put under the tongue daily, and allowed to dissolve there. Lastly, to the tumour itself, lie applies a plaster composed of half an ounce of litharge, a drachm of the submuriate of mercury, arid 10 grains of antim. tartariz. (Alibert Knsol. Nat. T 1, p. 474 ) Some account of iodine, as a remedy for bron- chocele, may be found in the London Med. Re- pository for Dec. 1820. Petit, Heister, and Sclimucker, make mention of inveterate bronchoceles, which got well gra- dually of themselves without much inconvenience, in consequence of the tumors suppurating. Volpi states, that such ulcerations are not unfrequent. He lias published two facts of this kind, which occurred after a nervous fever; and he records a third case, where the swelling inflamed in con- sequence of a blow, and suppurated and sloughed, so as entirely to disappear. (See LeveiUe Nou- i'dte Doctrine Chir. T. 4, p. 128.) A similar fact is recorded byZipp. (StcbaU Samml. Clnr.Beob. 1 B.p. 220.) The disease in its inveterate form, has also ii en sometimes removed by the application of “lustic; (Many in Jnurn. tie Mdi/cciue; T. 24, '• 7.5 ; Twceim, Cm. p. 288.) the establishment >f issues; (Jcilteles Ob>. filed.) the making of m incision into the swelling; or the introduction >f a scton through it. ( Finnic Essui tsur lc (mitre 1 >c 1 'tiiniin’ip. 75; Klein in i. Sitbuld Samm- U"X Chir. Beohacht. 2 Jl p. 1 1 ; Flajuni, Col- 'Z'linc o' O.servazioui rli Ctiimrgia, T. 13, p. 288.) Bronchoceles have sometimes been removed >y the part having been accidentally or purposely ■unit to a considerable depth. iMottt in Kiegny I ~,<!Uk nnu. 2 i chr. Ohs. 11 ; Seven mu re I ‘• Mediiiiw, i. 22U.) The disappearance I r°nchoceles lias also been known to follow wound. (Schiuidimulltr uber die Aus/uhi ungs- «/i£c da Schitddrusc, p. 07 ; LundsliiU, 1805.) A. Burns had sometimes employed blisters, and found them useful. (Surgical. Anatomy of i the Head and Neck, p. 204.) With respect to the caustic, which is spoken of by Celsus, (Lib. 1, cap. 13.) Flajuni states, that its opera- tion is tedious and painful, and attended with danger, and what he says about the practice of an incision, is not more encouraging. Where the disease contains a cyst, he prefers making an opening with a trocar, though lie confesses, that this plan is apt to be followed by a relapse, when the cyst is very thick and hard, in which circum- stance, it will be necessary to have recourse either to an incision, or the seton, for the purpose of exciting suppuration. Should the disease, however, be merely composed of one cyst of moderate size, Flajani recommends its entire removal. “ Of all these methods, (says he) proposed for the ex- tirpation of bronchoceles, the seton is the least dangerous, and by means of it a radical cure may be generally effected without any severe symp- toms, as I have found by experience in many cases. On the contrary, I have been an eye- witness of the fatal consequences induced by the other plans. I was called to assist a gen- tleman, about forty years of age, brought to death’s door by a bleeding, which arose from the application of caustic to the forepart of the neck. As tourniquets, bandages, &c. proved quite in- effectual, it was indispensable to make pres- sure on the part with the finger of an assistant, for twenty-four hours, ere the hemorrhage could be stopped; a copious suppuration ensued ; and it was three months before the parts were healed. 1 was likewise present (says he) at the opening of a similar, but larger swelling in the same situa- tion, the disease having afflicted an elderly re- spectable patient for several years. The incision caused the evacuation of a small quantity of serum, contained in the cellular membrane, but the fol- lowing day, the tumor inflamed, the difficulty of respiration increased, and for some days, the pa- tient was in great danger. At length, suppura- tion was established, followed by a destruction of a great deal of the cellular membrane, and seve- ral sinuses, and, in five months, the patient lost bis life. On examination of the body, the lungs were found tubereulated, an effect of the impedi- ment to the circulation of the blood through the smaller vessels of those organs.” (Flajuni Cul- lezime o’ Ossen. T. 3, p. 283, Ben. Itoma, 1802.) The first proposer of the employment of setons for the cure of diseases of the thyroid gland, is perhaps not exactly known; but it is certain, that the method has been known, and occasion- ally practised ever since the middle of the last century. “ Dr. Monro senior, (as a well in- formed writer lias observed) mentions in his lec- tures, that lie bad seen a dropsy in the centre of the gland, complicated with bronehocele, cured by a seton, although the glandular swelling still continued.” (A. hums on ilie Surgical Anatomy ol the Head and Neck, />. 191.) ’I his state- ment is given on the authority of some MS. notes taken by Dr. Brown, from Dr. Monro’s lectures. According to Girard, many cases in his time had been communicated to the Royal Academy of Sur- gery at Paris, in which the disease had been got rid'ol either by means of a scion, drawn through the swelling, or the application of an issue. (Ln- pwlogit, Sjc. 8u>. Buiis, 1775.) The occasional