551 GUTTA SERENA. §chmucker, lliehter, and Scarpa, of the good effects of emetics in many cases of amaurosis abroad, this treatment has had but little success in England. Mr. Travers even declares, that lie does not recollect an instance of decided benefit from the emetic practice, although he has often fairly tried it. “ The cases of gastric disorder, to which it is especially applicable, are most be- nefited by a long continued course of the blue pill, with gentle saline purgatives and tonic bit- ters.” (Synopsis of Diseases of the Ei.e, p. 304.) When the bpwels are loaded, and there is fre- quent detennination of blood to the head and eyes, and an accelerated circulation, and, parti- cularly, if, after these effects, the sight is always manifestly worse, brisk purgatives may be pre- scribed. When, however, constipation has pre- vailed for a long time, drastic purgatives should not be exhibited before one or two loose motions, have been procured with laxative clysters. ■ Gentle aperients are more particularly indicated, when the patient does not have a stool daily, and the evacuation is never made with ease, nor without considerable straining; when he often passes two or three days without any evacuation at all, circumstances sure to be followed by re- peated determination of blood to the head and eyes, and other ill consequences, which, accord- ing to Beer, have a very prejudicial effect on - amaurosis. Beer is of opinion, that diaphoretics should be employed with great caution, because they a are apt to bring on violent determinations of talood, and an accelerated state of the circulation ; ! a md they can only be employed with judgment, | iand a hope of benefit, when there are good _ grounds for believing, that a previous stoppage ot the cutaneous functions has had a real share n producing, or keeping up, the blindness. ! They are still more strongly indicated, when the cessation of those functions is, in some measure, evinced by the dry state of the integuments, wandering pains between the skin and muscles, md considerable melioration of the eyesight after the breaking out of any accidental per- piration. (H. 2, p. 465.) Professor Beer thinks, that in amaurosis me- licines for promoting the menstrual discharge ^re too often employed on empirical principles, o the serious detriment of the patient, the ces- ation of this discharge being mostly regarded s the cause of the amaurosis, while, in reality, t is very seldom really so, both affections being ependent upon one and the same cause, ilence much circumspection, and the closest in- estigation, are necessary to trace the connexion etween these morbid effects, and to ascertain dien such medicines can be given without risk. Still greater mischief results from the treat- lent of amaurotic children with anthelmintics ; ay, Beer assures us, that he has seen numerous maurotic boys and girls thus wrongly treated, ho had not the slightest symptom of worms, lowever, when amaurosis is unattended with ny leading indications, anthelmintics may be ‘led, for they are less injurious to the eyes than iany other medicines, though, as they consist of fastic purgative means, they must soon occa- ion great debility. According to Beer, when there is good ground ir suspecting any thing syphilitic about the patient, mercurials may be given with great prospect of benefit. Also, when no suspicion of this kind can be entertained, but amaurosis is accompanied with infarction ol the abdominal viscera, espe- cially a manifest chronic disease of the liver, or serious chronic swellings and indurations of the glands, a periodical headache, of no determinate character in other respects, and aggravation of the blindness after every such attack, mercurial preparations, as Beer can assert from manifold observation, are productive of the best effects upon the disease of the eyes. Yet, says he, under these circumstances, mercury should” never be exhibited where the individuals are of a de- bilitated scorbutic diathesis, or subject to bleed- ings, and more particularly where there is the least mark of a dissolution of the vitreous humour. ( Lc/ire von den Auge/ikr. B. 2, p. 466.) Upon the whole, from what I am able to learn of the practice in London, mercury is more extensively and successfully used, as a remedy for amaurosis, than any other medicine in the whole pharmaco- poeia. “ When the amaurosis is recent and sudden (says Mr. Travers), and either the signs . of an obscure inflammation are present, or only the amplitude and inactivity of the pupil corre- spond to the patient’s history—mercury should be introduced with all convenient rapidity into the system, I mean so as to ruffle it in the least possible degree. No advantage is obtained by salivation; on the contrary, I think it hurtful; when mercury' is beneficial, its efficacy is per- ceived as soon as the mouth is sore.” (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eue, p. 305.) Anti-nervous medicines have at all times, ranked very high, on empirical principles, as means for the cure of amaurosis; but, how often is this disease not simply a nervous affec- tion? Beer divides the medicines of this sort, employed in cases of amaurosis, into three classes, namely, antiparalytic, antispasmodic, and tonic. To the first class belong arnica, naphtha, camphor, millepedes, sulphur auratum antiinonii, liquor ammonite lavendulatus, pulsatilla, black hellebore, and phosphorus. These medicines can be safely given to amaurotic patients, when an evident general nervous debility, and morbid irritability prevail, without any other particular appearances of disease, and especially when, at the same time, there are genuine paralytic ap- pearances in the eye itself, or in the parts im- mediately surrounding it, or not very far from it. Amongst the antispasmodic remedies, particularly when used on empirical principles, Beer has found the most efficacious to be valerian, liquor ammonite carbonatis, assafoetida, opium, hyoscia- mus, castorcum, musk, flores zinci, and extract of chamomile. Tonic nervous remedies, says Beer, are to be used with more caution ; for bitter medicines, when injudiciously prescribed for nervous debilitated individuals, rather pro- mote the formation of amaurosis. When calamus aromaticus is in question, care must be taken, that there be rfo tendency to pectoral complaints, which this medicine is too apt to bring on in weak subjects, in which event the sight is always very much impaired by it. In costive habits, bark is likewise apt to render toe blindness worse. And, according to the same experienced oculist, it is necessary to be very circumspect with steel medicines, empirically prescribed, as