664 HEAD. considered abstractedly. The tumor is either very readily dissipated, or the extravasated blood causing it, is easily got rid of by a small opening. J. L. Petit first, and afterwards Pott, parti- cularly noticed this case, on account of an acci- dental circumstance, which sometimes attends it, and renders it liable to be.very much mistaken. “ When the scalp receives a very smart blow, it often happens that a quantity of extravasated blood immediately forms a tumor, easily distin- guishable from all others, and generally very easily cured. But it also sometimes happens, that this kind of tumor produces to the fingers of an unadvised or inattentive examiner, a sensa- tion, so like to that of a fracture, with depres- sion of the cranium, as may be easily mistaken.” Now, if, upon such supposition, a surgeon imme- diately makes an incision into the tumid scalp, he may give his patient a great deal of unneces- sary pain, and for that reason run some risk of his own character. “The touch is, in this case, so liable to decep- tion, that recourse should always be had to other circumstances and symptoms, before an opinion be given. “ If a person, with such tumor occasioned by a blow, and attended with such appearances, and feel, has any complaint, which seems to be the effect of pressure made on the brain and nerves, or of any mischief done to the parts within the cranium, the division or removal of the scalp, in order to inquire into the state of the skull, is right and necessary; but if there are no such general symptoms, and the patient is in every respect perfectly well, the mere feel of something like a fracture will not authorize or vindicate such operation, since it will often be found, that such sensation is a deception, and that when the extravasated fluid is removed, or dissipated, the cranium is perfectly sound and uninjured.”— (Pott.) With the exception of instances, in which the dura mater suppurates from a blow on the head, and the symptoms are such as to require the trephine, or other examples, in which an abscess forms under the scalp, or a large quantity of blood is effused in the same situation, none of the cases, which have here been considered, can justify making incisions in the scalp: and the utility of the practice in what was supposed by Pott to be an inflammation of the aponeurosis is at least questionable, as far as it is done under the idea of merely obviating tension, without there being any matter to be discharged. In- cisions expressly for the purpose of exposing the bone are only right, as a preparatory step to trephining, when the necessity for this operation is indicated by decided and urgent symptoms of pressure on the brain. Now, such pressure, in any of the examples, above treated of, can only arise from suppuration under the skull, a subject, which I shall leave, as having been already fully discussed. Dr. Hennen. in his truly practical work, has very properly advised surgeons not to be content with clipping away a little of the hair, around the injury, but always to have the head shaved to a proper extent. This proceeding which is per- fectly harmless in itself, is more generally right, than the custom of cutting the scalp, which has been too frequently employed without any ra- tional aim. The free removal of the hair directly after the accident, often brings into view marks indicative of other parts of the head having been struck, besides that, which is at first noticed, and, thus, the practitioner will have a more correct notion of the serious nature of the accident, than, he might otherwise have conceived, and, b more strict in his mode of treatment. Nay, f ractures and depression of the skull, sometimes not de- noted by any disturbance of the functions of the brain, and liable to escape observation, while concealed under the hair, are frequently detected after its removal, and the surgeon, being now aware of the extent and situation of the mischief, must of course be better qualified to conduct the treatment. In short, as Dr Hennen has ob- served; “Independent of the more accurate view, (thus procured,) we facilitate the applica- tion of leeches, if they may be found necessary, and of a most excellent adjuvant on all occasions, viz. cold applications.” It affords me particular pleasure to be able to number so good a surgeon as Dr. Hennen, amongst the advocates of Schmucker’s plan of having the head well shaved and covered with cloths, wet with a very cold lotion; a practice which the latter eminent surgeon always adopted, whether a sabre cut, or gun-shot injury of this part, had the appearance of being serious, or not. “ As soon as the patient was brought to the hospital with a wound of the head, whether the injury looked important or not, (says Sclimucker) I directed the hair to be immediately removed, and, after the necessary dilatation, applied dressings. Sixteen ounces of blood were next taken away, and the evacuation, in less quantity, repeated according to circumstances, three or four times, within the space of twenty- four hours. The pulse now generally became softer, and the determination of blood to the head lessened. Over the dressings, and the whole of the head, thick cloths, dipped in the cold mixture, hereafter specified, were laid, and renewed every hoar. These cloths were kept in their place with the bandage called the grand couvre-chef. (See Bandage.) As internal me- dicines, the nitrate of potassa, neutral salts, ard emollient and stimulating clysters, and gentle aperients were given. These means were em- ployed, both in slight injuries, and in those where the bones were depressed, and fissures and frac- tures were accompanied with violent convulsive twitchings, coma, paralysis, and other bad sym- ptoms ; and even in cases, where the use of the trephine was indispensable, the practice was continued until the cure was complete.” Schmucker assures us, that under such treatment, fewer patients with wounds of the head were lost, than used previously to happen, especially of those, whose injuries at first had the ap- pearance of being but slight. (See C/iir. Wahr- nchmungen, 1 B. p 1 c4 ) Schmucker was led to try this practice by the great benefit, which he had seen afforded bv the application of cold water to the head in cases of mania, attended with great determination of blood to the brain. And, in order to increase the efficacy of the water, he added to every five gallons of it two quarts of vinegar, sixteen ounces of nitre, and eight of the muriate of ammonia- This mixture was then preserved for use in a ! I % 1