SURGERY. 1009 isurcs which tend to throw particular cases, 1 the hands of a few individuals, hurtful to best interests, ami degrading to the character he profession. n the treatment of aneurismal diseases, jjish surgeons have much to be proud of. the boldest operations in this branch of jerv have been devised by the genius, and ,’uted by the spirit and skill of British sur- yis. Even M. Roux himself is here obliged confess our superiority. (ParaUele de la rurgic Angloise, tyc. p. 249.) The carotid ry, the external and internal iliac, and the ■lavian, have all been successfully tied by ■eons of this country. The first operation, which the external iliac was tied, I was a .tator of: it was performed by Mr. Aber- y y in Bartholomew’s hospital, and it has sub- e ently been repeated in many examples, both his country and others, with considerable * ess. I had also the honour of seeing the 2 gentleman likewise tie the carotid, in the instance of that operation in England. : important measure has also now been fre- itly practised with success, and it constitutes of the great improvements in the operative of modern surgery. l the article Aneurism, I have cited many iples, in which the carotid artery has been cssfully tied; and the safety and propriety ! je operation are now generally known and j owledged. Indeed, so little are surgeons now ! i i of the ill effects upon the brain, that the id artery has lately been tied merely for the I ose of enabling the operator to take away a ■' tumor, including the whole of the parotid 1, from the side of the neck, without risk of trrhage; a mode of proceeding, however, h ought not to be encouraged into a common ice. (See Medico Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, 2. ) Before I quit this subject, my feelings ipon me to express the high opinion which I ■tain of Mr. Hodgson’s Treatise on the Dis- ; of Arteries and Veins, published in 1815, a which reflects great credit on English sur- , and contains practical precepts far superior ose of Scarpa. the modern practice of surgery, a variety of rejudiees arc gradually vanishing. Peruvian . not many years ago, was regarded as a •eign remedy and specific for nearly all cases ingrene; and in the these and many other nces, it was prescribed without any discri- tion, and in dose3 beyond all moderation, the false idea, that tins medicine ha? any fic effect in checking mortification, no longer * the senses of the most superficial practi- r. He neither believes this doctrine, nor till more absurd opinion, that strength can lystcriously extracted from this vegetable ance, and communicated to the human con- ion, in proportion to the quantity, which be made to remain in the stomach. This ct, however, has been duly discussed in the es Cinchona and Mortification. ie removal of this deeply rooted prejudice, erning the virtues of bark, in stopping mor- tion, will pave the way to better and more :ssful practice. it, upon the subject of mortification the pre- day opens to us the investigation of a point, which is of the first-rate consequence. Every surgeon is aware, that when a limb is affected with mortification, amputation is absolutely ne- cessary to effect a cure. This is generally' ac- knowledged; but, the performance of the opera- tion has since the time of Mr. Pott, only' been sanctioned when the mortification has manifestly ceased to spread, and a line of separation is formed between the dead and living parts. AH other instances, in which the disorder was in a spreading state, were left to their fate. It is true, some of the old surgeons occasionally ventured to deviate from this precept; but, as they did so, without any discrimination, or knowledge of the particular examples, which ought to form an exception to the general rule, their ill success cannot constitute a just argu- ment against the plan of amputating earlier in a certain description of cases. Now, if modern experience can prove, that many lives may be saved by a timely perform- ance of amputation, under circumstances, in which it has until lately been generally con- demned, it must be allowed that the established innovation will be one of the greatest improve- ments in the practice of the present time. For reviving the consideration of this question, and venturing to deviate from the beaten path, the world is much indebted to that eminent military surgeon, Baron Larrey. How different’ his doctrines and practice are from those usually taught in the schools, the article Mortification will sufficiently prove. In the treatment of ununited fractures, the simple and ingenious practice, proposed by' Dr. Physic of Philadelphia, merits particular notice, not only' on account of the several successful trials, which have been made of it in this coun- try and France; (See Medico Chir. Trans. Vols. 5 Sr 7, and Boyer's Traits, des Maladies Chir.) but also because it is perhaps the first improvement of consequence, that has hitherto been made in the practice of surgery by our transatlantic brethren. The inestimable treatise of Dr. Jones on He- morrhage has now produced quite a revolution in all the principles, by which the surgeon is guided in the employment of the ligature for the stoppage of bleeding and the cure of aneurisms. Instead of thick clumsy cords, small firm silks, or threads, are now generally used; and so far is the practitioner from being fearful of tying arteries too tightly', lest the ligature cut through them, that it is now a particular object with him to apply the silk, or thread, with a certain degree of force, in order that the inner coat of the vessel may' be divided. If this be not done, the effusion of coagulating lymph, within the artery, an im- portant part of the process of obliteration, cannot be expected as a matter of certainty', and se- condary hemorrhage is more likely to occur. But, in order to convey an adequate idea ol the beneficial changes, which Dr. Jones’s observa- tions arc tending to produce in practice, we have been careful in the article, Hemorrhage, to give a tolerably full account of the results of all his interesting experiments. Besides using very small, firm, round threads, instead of large, flat tapes, or cords, as was the custom, a few y'cars ago, modern surgeons begin to suspect, that much benefit may also arise from 3 T