AGO DISLOCATION. tient’s axilla, must prove an impediment, rather than an assistance, l>y thrusting the head of the humerus under the neck of the scapula, instead of directing it into its socket. Why the bar, or rolling-pin, under the axilla produces the same effect. Why the common method of bending the arm (that is, the os humeri) downward, before sufficient extension has been made, prevents the very thing aimed at, by pushing the head of the bone under the scapula, which the continuation of the extension for a few seconds only would have carried into its proper place. To the observation, that mere extension only draws the head of the bone out from the axilla, in which it is lodged, but Joes not re- place it in the acetabulum scapulae, Mr. Pott re- plies, that, when the head of the os humeri is drawn forth from the axilla, and brought to a level with the cup of the scapula, it must be a very great and very unnecessary addition of ex- tending force, that will or can keep it from going into it. All that the surgeon has to do, is to bring it to such level; the muscles attached to the bone will do the rest for him, and that whether he will or not. 7. Another of Pott’s principles is, that what- ever kind or degree of force may be found neces- sary for the reduction of a luxated joint, that such force be employed gradually; that the lesser de- gree be always first tried, and that it be increased gradatim. (See Pali’s Chir. Works, Vot. 1. ) The supposition of the reduction being some- times prevented by the capsular ligaments, Mr. A. Cooper considers as quite erroneous : he as- sures us, that, in dislocations from violence, those ligaments are always extensively lacerated; and that the idea of the neck of the bone being girt, or confined, by them, is altogether untrue. (Sing. Essays, Pun 1, p. IS.) But, in addition to the resistance of the muscles, there are in old dislocations, three circumstances, pointed out by Mr. A. Cooper, as causes of the difficulty of reduction. 1. The extremity of the bone con- tracts adhesion to the surrounding parts, so that in dissection, even when the muscles are removed, the bone cannot be reduced. 2. The socket is sometimes filled up with adhesive matter. 8. A new bony socket is sometimes formed, in which the head of the bone is so completely confined, that it could not be extricated, without breaking its new lodgement. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, V• 21 •) Dislocations in general cannot be reduced without trouble ; but, after the reduction is ac- complished, it is easily maintained. On the con- trary, fractures are for the most part easy of reduction ; but cannot be kept in this desirable state without difficulty. The moment extension is remitted, the muscles act, the ends of the broken bone slip out of their proper situation with re- spect to each other, and the distortion of the limb recurs. As a modern writer has observed, the reduction is only a small part of the treat- ment of fractures : the most essential point of it is the almost daily care, which a fracture demands during the whole time requisite for its consolida- tion. The contrary is the case in luxations. Here, in fact, the reduction is every thing, if we put out of consideration the less frequent cases, in which the dislocation is complicated, and attended with such grave circumstances, as render it indispensably necessary to continue lor a length of time the utmost surgical care. But, even then, the protracted treatment is less for the dislocation itself, than for the extraordinary circumstances, with which it is accompanied. (See liana, Purallelc de la Chirurgic Angtunc uuec la Chirurgit Fran^oise, p. 207.) All the ancient writers recommend the ex- tending force to be applied to the luxated bone; for instance, above the knee in dislocations of the thigh-bone, and above the elbow in those of the humerus. We have stated, that Pott ad- vised this plan, and the same practice, which is approved by J. L. Petit, Duverney, and Caliisen, is almost generally adopted in this country. However, many of the best modern surgeons in France, for instance, Fabre, D’Apouy, De- sault, Boyer, Richerand, and Reveille, advise the extending force not to be applied on the luxated bone, but, on that, with which it is articulated, and as far as possible from it. It is said, that this plan has two most important ad- vantages : first, the muscles, which surround the dislocated bone, are not compressed, nor stimu- lated to spasmodic contractions, which would re- sist the reduction; secondly, the extending force is much more considerable, than in the other mode; for, by using a long lever, we obtain a greater degree of power. In Pott’s remarks, we find even him, in- fluenced by the prevailing prejudice against the above practice, that part of the extending force is lost on the joint, intervening between the dis- location, and the part, at which the extension is made. This notion is quite unfounded, as every man, who reflects, for one moment, must soon perceive. When extension is made at the wrist, the ligaments, muscles, &e. which connect the bones of the fore-arm with the os brachii, have the whole of the extending force operating on them, and they must obviously transmit the same degree of extension, which they receive, to the bone above, to which they are attached. Indeed, this matter seems so plain, that I think it would be an insult to the reader’s understanding to say any more about it. than that such eminent sur- geons, as have contrary sentiments, can never have taken the trouble to reflect for themselves on this particular subject. Whether the force, necessary to be exerted in some instances, would have a bad effect on the intervening joint, may yet be a question; but, as Desault’s practice was very extensive, and he did not find any ob- jection of this kind, perhaps, we have no right to conclude, that such a one would exist. If, however, the common objection to De- sault’s plan of applying the extending force be unfounded, the question still remains to be set- tled, whether this practice is most advantageous on the grounds above specified ? This is a point* which, perhaps, cannot be at once peremp- torily decided altogether in the negative, or the affirmative, since what may be best in one kind of dislocation, may not be so in another. Thus, Mr. A. Cooper states, that, as far as he has had an opportunity of observing, it is generally best to apply the extension to the bone, which is dis- located; but, that dislocations of the shoulder are exceptions, in which he mostly prefers to re- duce the head of the bone by placing his heel in Inc