HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 651 to prepare the way for an extension of the dis- ease bva continued process of ulceration, and by a recurrence of the last mentioned symptoms.” (Blackadder, on Phagedcena Gangrcenosa, p. ^8—30.) The first symptoms, which indicate hospital gangrene in a wound, or ulcer, are, a more or less acute pain, and a viscid whitish exudation on the surface of the granulations, which lose their vermilion colour, and present at several points spots of a greyish or dirty-white hue, resembling venereal ulcers, or aphthae. These ulcerated points, thus engrafted (as it were) upon the original ulcer, soon spread, and join together, so as to give to the whole surface of the solution of continuity a grey ash -colour. The surface also becomes more or less indurated, and sometimes bleeds. A red, purplish cedema- tous circle, of a greater, or lesser extent, is next formed in the surrounding skin. Sometimes, when the patient is of a good habit, the causes of infection less active, and the constitution suf- ficiently strong, the disorder now stops. Accord- ing to Eoyer, it may not even extend to the whole surface of the ulcer. But, most fre- quently, its progress is extremely rapid, and occasionally quite terrifying. The edges of the wound, or ulcer, become hardened and everted, the granulations are large and tumid, being swelled up, as Boyer asserts, with a considerable quantity of gas. They are afterwards detached in the form of soft reddish sloughs, which, very much resemble the substance of the foetal brain, in a putrid state. From day to day, until either nature alone, or aided by art, puts limits to the disorder, it invades new parts both in breadth and depth, so that its ravages extend to aponeu- roses, muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, tendons, the periosteum, and even the bones themselves. Amongst a number of severe cases, which fell under the notice of Mr. Blackadder, “ there was one, in which the half of the cranium was de- nuded, the bones having become black as char- coal, and the integuments detached posteriorly to the second cervical vertebra, and anteriorly to the middle of the zygomatic process of the tem- poral bone; and this was originally a superficial wound of the scalp. In another ease, the mus- cles, large arteries, and nerves of both thighs were exposed and dissected, the integuments and cellular substance being entirely removed, with the exception of only a narrow strip of the former, which remained on the outer side of the thighs. This was also originally a simple flesh wound. In other instances, the cavities of the knee, ankle, elbow, and wrist, joints, were laid extensively open, and, in one unfortunate case, the integuments and cellular substance, on the anterior parts of the neck, were destroyed, ex- hibiting a horrid spectacle, the trachea being also wounded. (On Phagedcena Gangncnenosa, p. 3.) ’ According to the last experienced author, w ien the disease attacks an old sore, where a considerable depth of new flesh has been formed, the first thing generally observed is a small dark co cured spot, usually, situated at the edge of the *^re‘ jie states, that, in several cases of cers, the disease, when carefully watched, was * ..“to ^g'n >n the form of a vesicle, filled with 1V1 , or brownish-black fluid, which afterwards burst, and assumed the appearance of the dark- coloured spot, which is commonly first noticed. Mr. Blackadder always found, that, when there had been a considerable bed of new flesh formed, the phagedenic ulceration made comparatively a very slow progress, and put on rather the appearance of mercurial phagedsena, until the morbific matter had found access to the natural texture of the part, when the progress of the dis- ease became suddenly accelerated; acute in- flammation supervened; and a large slough was formed. (Op. cit. p. 31.) He notices, that when the morbific matter is inserted in a punc- ture, or scratch, the first progress of the disease bears a resemblance to that of a part inoculated with vaccine matter. The primary inflammation in gangrenous phagedacna commences at the end of the second, or early on the third day; the inflammation is at its height about the sixth; when the scab begins to form in one disease, phagedenic ulceration begins in the other, and, when allowed to proceed, soon affords sufficient proof of the non-identity of the two diseases. (jP. 33.) According to Mr. Blackadder, when the dis- ease attacks a .recent gun-shot wound, the dis- charge, two or three days after infection, is found to be lessened, and to have become more of a sanious, than purulent nature. The sore has a certain dry and rigid appearance; its edges are more defined, somewhat elevated, and sharp- ened ; the patient is sensible of a change in the usual sensation in the sore, and complains of the occasional stinging sensation, resembling that produced by the sting of a gnat. At this period, but sometimes a day or two later, the integuments at the edge of the sore become inflamed, and the surface of the sore itself assumes a livid or pur- ple colour, and appears, as if covered with a fine pellicle, such as is formed on a coagulum of blood.’’ (On Phagedcena Gangrcenosa,p. 33.) At Bilbao, the disease in cases of wound, is said generally to have commenced with a sudden attack «f severe pain in the head and eyes, tight- ness about the forehead, want of sleep, loss of appetite, a quick pulse, and other febrile sym- ptoms ; while, the wound, which had been healthy and granulating, at once became tumid, dry, and painful, losing its florid colour, and assuming a dry and glossy coat. (Hennen, on Military Surgery, ^.214, Ed. 2.) When left to itself, the above described pellicle gradually increases in thickness, forming what has been termed a slough. But, Mr. Blackadder observes, that, at this period, the progress of the disease is hardly in any two instances precisely alike. Generally, in the course of from five, to ten, or fifteen days, a thick spongy, and putrid looking slough is formed over the whole surface of the sore, and which is more or less of nil ash, or blackish-brown colour. When the pellicle is destroyed, as fre- quently happens in the process of cleaning, it is not in every case reproduced; but, an offensive matter begins to be discharged, which becomes daily more copious, is of a dirty yellow colour, and ropy consistence, and is very adherent to the sore. The substance, which formed the ap- parent bottom of the wound, is raised up, and pushing back the edges, makes the sore nppear considerably enlarged. The edges, which are usually jagged, or pectinated, become extremely