SURGERY. 999 4 O' I •e of diseases by the application of the hand ne, the employment of instruments, or the • of topical remedies, (Encyclopedic Mctho- ■uc, Partic Chir. Tom. 1, Art. Chirurgie.) .t, although this definition certainly conveys to some idea of the nature of this most useful jfession, it is not entirely accurate as applied the present state of practice. It might, in- -ed, be correct during that short unfavoured riod of surgery upon the continent, some cen- ■>es ago, when its practice was denounced by - Council of Tours, as unfit for the hands of ests and men of literature, and when the sur- on became little better than a sort of pro- sional servant to the physician, the latter alone t only having the sole privilege of prescribing ernal medicines, but even that of judging and ■ectmg when surgical operations should be per- •med. Then the subordinate surgeon was ly called upon to execute with his knife, or bis nd, duties which the more exalted physician .1 not choose to undertake; and, in fact, he sited the patient, did what was required to be me, and took his leave of the case, altogether ider the orders of hjs master. In modern nes, however, the good sense of mankind has scovered that surgery is deserving of an emi- ;nt rank amongst such arts as ought to be cul- vated for the general benefit of society; that e man, who is not himself accustomed to the 'rformance of operations, cannot be the best dge of their safety and necessity ; and tbat, in ■ery point of view, the surgical practitioner erits as much favour and independence in the tercise of his profession, as he whose avocation confined to physic. Hence, the surgeon is ow exclusively consulted about many of the lost important diseases to which the human odv is liable. Being no longer under the yoke the physician, he follows the dictates of his 'vn judgment and knowledge; he prescribes hatever medicines the case may demand, inter- al as web as external; and under the encou- agement of an enlightened age, he sees his rofession daily becoming more scientific, more espected, and more extensively useful. By some writers, physic is said to have for its ■s dis- affected to illiterate, the progress of scientific surgery would have suffered little interruption; but if young minds are directed to these objects, as the only important matters upon which their faculties are to be exercised; if the gross informations of sense constitute the sum of their knowledge, little more can be expected from such a mode of study, than servile imitation, or daring ricism, Indeed, some people have oppose surgery as an art, to medicine as a sci- ence ; and if their pretensions were justly founded, the former would certainly be degraded to a mere mechanical occupation. But it is not very easy to comprehend the grounds of such a distinction. The internal and external parts of the body are governed bv the same general laws during a state of health ; and, if an internal part be attacked with inflammation, the appearances and -effects will bear a great similarity to the same disease situated externally; nor are the indications of cure, in general, materially dif- ferent. If by science, therefore, be meant “ a knowledge of the laws of nature,” he who knows what is known of the order and method of na- ture, in the production, progress, and termination of surgical diseases, merits as justly the title of a scientifical practitioner as the well-educated physician. The practical parts of physic and surgery are very frequently disunited ; but their theory and principles are indivisible, since they truly constitute one and the same science.” (Pearson's Principles of Surgery, Preface.) But, though we can object on good grounds to the above-mentioned definitions of surgery, it seems impossible to offer any other, against which equal objections could not be brought. In fact, how is it possible to define surgery with any degree of accuracy, until the boundaries between it and physic can be determined? Richerarid talks indeed of the Medical School of Paris ha- ving now successfully established the limits and objects of surgery, and he^boasts of this as an original improvement reflecting credit on his countrymen. (See Diet, dcs Sciences, Med. T. 5, p.88.) Yet, what are we to think, when we remember, not only that he has, in the com- mencement of the very same article, defined i • , .t 1 ... ** 1 w me. vv,i^ fiuiiic diiiLiLj aenne bject the treatment of internal, surgery that of surgery to be “ quod in therapeia mechanknm, sternal diseases. This definition, however good but that by way of illustrating what the Parisian nd plausible it may at first appear, can only be School has accomplished, he says, that surgery iceived with numerous exceptions in regard to lodern surgery : for instance, the psoas abscess, tone in the bladder, an extravasation of blood ithin the skull in consequence of accidental iolence, arc universally allowed to be strictly airurgical cases; yet no man in his senses muld call these disorders external. Others have defined surgery to be the me- hanical part of physic, “ quod in therapeia le.chanicumbut, although this has obtained he assent of so eminent a modern surgeon as rofessor Iticherand, of Paris, (Did. dcs Sci- necs Medicates, Tom. 5, p. 85.) I believe ew on this side of the water will be of his opi- ■'\t" ^r* Pearson has observed : i Iany people have imagined that when a man ias carnt the art of dressing sores, of applying jandages, and performing operations with a little ? ”*y» *le must necessarily be an aecom- 1 is ie( surgeon. If a conclusion so gross and alJacious had been confined to the vulgar and was first demonstrated by it to be only a means of physic, and riot a separate and distinct sci- ence? (See also Diet, dcs Sciences Med, arti- cle Chirurgicales, Maladies.) As a learned Prolessor notices, the limits be- tween physic and surgery are not very precisely marked, and the respective functions of the phy- sician and surgeon, long as those names have existed, are still but very inaccurately defined. “ The most superficial acquaintance with the symptoms, progress, and termination of the va- rious morbid affections to which the human body is liable, must be sufficient to convince every unprejudiced inquirer, that there is but a slight foundation, if indeed there be any, for this distinction, in the nature of the diseases, which these practitioners are required to treat, or in the modes of treatment, by which the diseases themselves may be cured, or relieved. Expe- rience has long shewn, that the use of internal remedies is not only required in a large proper-