538 HERNIA. operateil upon by this barbarous process, were subject to relapses, because, in all probability, the cicatrix was not sufficiently firm to resist the impulse ot the viscera, which entered the remains of the hernial sac. In the same manner, after the common operation for the strangulated in- guinal hernia, although the cicatrix is formed very near the ring, there is no prudent surgeon, who does not advise the patient to wear a band- age the rest of his life, observation having proved, that the hernia is still liable to recur. “ The experience of several ages leaves no doubt, that compression alone is an extremely efficacious method of radically curing the umbi- lical hernia of young subjects. It is attended with no risk, and, provided it be executed with the requisite caution, it is hardly ever necessary to continue it longer, than two, or three months, for the purpose of obtaining a complete cure. On the other side, if it be.clearly proved, by all that I have been observing, that the ligature never accomplishes a perfect cure without compression, it is manifest, that it cannot be at all advantage- ous for the children of the poor, since a bandage cannot be dispensed with. It may be said, that, in general, it does not shorten the treatment; for, in the most successful cases, the ulcer, caused by it, is not healed in less than a month, and, in order to make the cure certain, an exact compression must afterwards be kept up, by means of a bandage, two months longer. It has already been stated, that three months are or- dinarily sufficient for obtaining a radical cure by the mere employment of a compressive band- age.” (Scarpa, Traite des IIcritics, p. 344 —349 ) In the Journal General de Medecine, T. 41. 1811, M. Girard has published a memoir on the umbilical hernia of children, which was read to the Medical Society of Lyons in May, 1811, and the object of which was to recommend compression as an effectual means of cure. The arguments used were very similar to those adduced by Scarpa. In the course of the discussion, M. Cartier affirmed, that he had seen many children operated upon by Desault, who were not cured of their herniae. The subject was afterwards taken up by the Medical Society of Paris, and the result of the debate was, that the employment of the ligature ought to be rejected, i. Because the cure of umbilical herniae is often accomplished by nature alone. 2. Because compression, either alone, or aided by tonic remedies, always succeeds. 3. Because the operation of the ligature deserves the triple reproach of being painful, and not free from danger, if unfortunately apiece of intestine should chance to be included in the ligature; of not succeeding in general, except with the assist- ance of compression ; and of being sometimes uselessly practised, as Desault himself gives us instances of. According to M. Cayol, the insuf- ficiency of the ligature was long since acknow- ledged by Sabatier, Lassus, Richerand, &c. UMBILICAL HERNIA IN ADULT SUBJECTS. This case is to be treated on the principles common to all ruptures. When reducible, the parts should be kept up with a bandage, or truss; which plan, however, in grown up per- sons, affords no hope of a radical cure. Mr. I ley has described some very good trusses for the exomphalos, which are applicable to children, when compression is preferred, as well as to adult subjects. One was invented by the late Mr. Marrison, an ingenious mechanic at Leeds. “ It consists of two pieces of thin elastic steel, which surround the sides of the abdomen, and nearly meet behind. At their anterior ex- tremity they form conjointly an oval ring, to one side of which is fastened a spring of steel of the form represented. At the end of this spring is placed the pad or bolster that presses upon the hernia. By the elasticity of this spring the hernia is repressed in every position of the body, and is thereby retained constantly within the abdomen. A piece of caiico or jean is fast- ened to each side of the oval ring, having a continued loop at its edge, through which a piece of tape is put, that may be tied behind the body. This contrivance helps to preserve the instru- ment steady in its proper situation [Practi- cal Ohs. in Surgery, p. 231.) And, in the second edition of the preceding work, another truss for the exomphalos is described, the inven- tion of Mr. Eagland, of Leeds, but, as some account is given of this instrument, with an engraving, in the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, I shall not here repeat the description. When the exomphalos is irreducible, and large, the tumor must be supported with band- ages. It is observed by Scarpa, that the umbilical hernia, and those of the linea alba, are less sub- ject to be strangulated, than, the inguinal and femoral hernia ; but that, when they are unfor- tunately affected with strangulation, the sym- ptoms are more intense, and gangrene comes on more rapidly, than in every other species ot rup- ture. If the operation be performed, the event is frequently unfavourable, because it is generally done too late. This practical fact is proved by the experience of the most celebrated surgeons of every age. “ Ilcst certain (says Dionis) que dc cettc operation il en petit plus qu'H n’en rechappe.” (Cours d'Operations, p. 98, Ed. 1777, avec les notes de la Faye.) He also adds, that they, who have the misfortune to be afflicted with an exomphalos, should rather dispense with their shirt than a bandage. Idcister says nearly the same thing. (Instit. Ckirurg. T. 2, Cap. 94.) When the omentum alone is strangulated in the exomphalos, or hernia of the linea alba, ob- servation proves, that the symptoms are not less intense, than when the intestine is also incar- cerated. There is this difference, however, that when the omentum alone is strangulated, only nausea occurs, and, if vomiting should likewise take place, it is less frequent and violent than when the bowel itself is strangulated. In the first case, the stools are hardly ever entirely sup- pressed. The proximity of the stomach is, no doubt, the reason, why the strangulation of the omentum, in the umbilical hernia, occasions far more intense symptoms of sympathetic irritation, than the strangulation of the same viscus in the inguinal, or crural hernia. Here, the operation is not only always neces- sary, but urgently required. It is not materially different from that, which is practised for the strangulated inguinal and crural herniae; but, in