] 176' WAR WHI of issues is to be ascribed to the advanced pro- gress which the disease has made, or to its hal- ving begun in the cancellous structure of the ver- tebrae, as suggested by Mr. Brodie, future ob- servation must decide. Consult Pott's Chirurgical Works, Vol. 3. G. Gcbb, Select Coses of the Disorder, com- monly termed Paralysis of the Lower Extre- mities, 8vo. Land. 1782. C. II. Wilkinson, Essays on Distortion of the Spine, &c. 8vo. Loud, 1798. Lodcr, Med. Chir. Bcobachtun- gen, B. 1, p. 247, §c. 8uo. Weimar, 1/94. J. C. Frank, Oratio de Vertebralis Columnce in Morbis Dignitatc; Panics, 1791. C. Fan Roy, De Seoliasi, 4to. Lvgd. 1774. Sir J. Earle, Observations on the Cure of Curved Spine ; in which the effect of Mechanical As- sistance is considered. 8vo. Land. 1803. Gius- eppe Bcrgamaschi, Osscrvazioni sulla Inf am- nia xione dcllo Spinale Medollo c delle sue Mem- brane ; 4/o. Par. 1810. T. Boynton, An Account of a Successful Method of Treating Diseases of the Spine; 8i>o. Bristol, 1813. II. Earle, in Edinb. Med, and Surg. Journ. for January 1815. J. L. Choulant, Decas Pclvmm Sfinarum epic Dcformatarum ; 4to, Lvjts. 1818. G. Malsch, de nova Maehina Grucjlann Distortioncs Spines Dor si ad Sava is- das, necnon Distjuisilio Deformitatum istiu rum ; 4to. Berol. 1818. Abercrombie, in Edinb. Mccl. and Surg. Journ. for January 1818. Kapcler, in Annuaire Med. Chir. dcs I lb pi- tanx de Paris, T. 1, p. 390; 4to. Paris, 1819. T. Copeland, Obs. on the Symptoms and Treatment of Diseased Spine ; 8vo. B. C. Brodie, Pathological and Surgical Observa- tions on the Joints, p. 257, i|-c. 8 vo. Land. 1813. James Wilson, Lectures on the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, and on the Discuses of the Bones and Joints; p. 395, 8vo. Land. 1820. VINEGAR. (See Acetic Acid.) VINUM OPII. Take of extract of opium f, cinnamon bark bruised, cloves bruised, of each 3j.; wine a pint. Macerate for eight days, and filter. The thebaic tincture, or liquid lau- danum of Sydenham. In surgery', it is often preferred to the common tincture of opium, as an application to the eve. VIPER, BITE OF. See Wounds. VOLVULUS, (from volvo, to roll up.) See Intussusception. WART. Mr. Hunter observes, tlint a wart appears to be an excrescence from tbe cutis, or a tumor formed upon it, by which means, it becomes covered with a cuticle, which is either strong and hard, or thin and soft, just as the cuticle is, which covers the parts, from which the excrescence arises. Warts are radiated from their basis to their circumference. The surface of the radii appears to be pointed, or granulated, like the surface of healthy granulations, with the exception of being harder, and rising higher. The surface, on which a wart is formed, seems only to be capable of producing one; for, the surrounding and connecting surface does not throw out a similar substance. Thus, when a ■wart has once begun to grow, it rises higher and higher, without becoming larger at its basis. Such excrescences seem to have within them- selves the power of growing; for, as Hunter remarks, after they have risen above the surface of the skin, on which their basis cannot grow larger, they swell out into a round thick sub- stance, which becomes rougher and rougher. In consequence of this structure, warts are very liable to be hurt by bodies rubbing against them, and, from such a cause, they often bleed very profusely, and are rendered sore and painful. (On the Venereal Disease, p. 250, Edit. 2.) As warts are adventitious substances, and not any part of the original structure of the body, their powers of life are weak. Hence, when sti- mulated, they generally' become smaller, and, at lpnrrtli nitrlicnnnpnr. nr (Iron off. per, or a powder, composed of the povdefs of sa- vine leaves, and the subacetate of copper, in equal proportions. However, tbe employment of stronger escha- roties, like the nitrate of silver, or the concen- trated acetic acid; the removal of such excres- cences widi a knife or pair of scissars; or ty- ing tlieir necks with a ligature; is a mode fre- quently preferred, because the cure is sooner ac- complished. The two last methods are eligible, when the wart has a narrow neck; hut, alter the removal of the excrescence, it is still proper to touch the root with the caustic, or the acetic acid; for, un- less the whole be completely destroyed, the wart will inevitably' grow again. Warts on the pudenda, and about the anus, scarcely ever withstand the effect of the powder of savine, and subacetate of copper, though they will sometimes resist a course of mercury, ade- quate to cure lues venerea; a consideration, which led Mr. Hunter to believe them not to be syphilitic. In this opinion, I believe all the best surgeons of the present day concur. WHITLOW. (Panaris, Onychia, pana- ritium, Paronychia.) A whitlow is an inflam- mation, about tbe end of the linger, exceed- ingly painful, and very much disposed to sup- purate. The toes are also sometimes the seat of the disease. Writers usually divide whitlows into four kinds. In the first, or mildest, a vesicle, filled witli matter, commonly arises near the root, or side of the nail, after a superficial inflammation