C/ESAREAN OPERATION. 2,17 the mother anil child are living, but delivery can- not take place from the same causes, as ift the second example. In many instances, both mother and child have lived after the Caesarean Operation, and the mother even borne children afterwards. (See Hcister’s Institutes of Surgery, chap. 113. Mem. de l'Acad. dcChirurgic, Tom. 1, p. 623, Tom. 2, p. 308, in 4to. Edith. Med. Essays, Vol. 5, art. 37, 3S. Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. 4, p. 179- Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 9, and 11, $'C.) In England, the operation has been attended with remarkable ill success ; and perhaps there iis not one unequivocal example, in which the another has here survived the true Caesarean Operation. In the last edition of this work, in- deed, I referred to the case, recorded by Mr. lames Barlow, of Chorley, Lancashire, who nadc an incision into the abdomen, extracted a lead child, and saved the mother’s life. (See Alcdical Records and Researches, p. 154, 1798.; •My friend Dr. Gooch, however, having obli- gingly communicated to me his doubts, and those >f Dr. Hull, respecting the reality of an incision laving been made in this instance into the uterus, . am glad to have the opportunity of expressing nv perfect conviction of the more correct view f the case, taken by these physicians. “ I sus- ecteil, from the first, (says Dr. Hull) that Mr. ■ ■ barlow was deceived in this case, from the ac- ount he gave of the remarkable thinness of the ems. And I had formed an opinion, that the lildhad escaped through a laceration of the uterus to the abdomen, enveloped in the secundines, id that he had merely divided the membranes, hen he fancied he had divided the uterus.” >r. Hull then proceeds to explain the confirma- on of his own sentiments by those of Mr. [owarden, a very intelligent practitioner at lackrod, who assisted at the operation. In fact, :e particulars stated by this gentleman, leave -> doubt, that the foetus had escaped through a ceration of the uterus into the cavity of the idomen. (See Hull’s Defence of the Ceesarean aeration, Sr. p. 72.) The ease also referred toby r. D. Stewart, (see Ed in. Med. Essays, Vol. 5,) lerc the labour had endured twelve days, and c life of the mother was saved, after the dead . tus had been extracted by a midwife, was also obably of the same nature : at all events, the : ntofauthentic particulars, and the circumstance t the operation having been done by a woman, .ve the true nature of the case questionable. If therefore, when we speak of the Cmsarean ieration, we mean that, in which theparietes of ; abdomen and those of the uterus are divided the surgeon, and the foetus extracted, I he- re, that, as far as the history of the practice tends in this country, it cannot be said, that mother has ever recovered after such a pro- dding ; though, some years ago, a calculation > made, that the operation had been done not 5 than eighteen times in Great Britain. Ten of children, however, arc stated to have been ed. On the continent, the practice has proved nitely more successful; for, of 231 cases of ^operation, to be found in the records of me* Inv» 139 arc said to have terminated success- (Kellie, in Edin. Med. and. Surgical Joum. • V- 17.) No doubt, the ill success of the Caesarean Operation in England was correctly explained by Dr. Hull: “ In France, and some other nations upon the the European Continent, the Caesarean Operation has been, and continues to be performed, where British practitioners do not think it indicated ; it is also had recourse to early, before the strength of the mother has been exhausted by the long continuance and fre- quent repetition of tormenting, though unavail- ing pains, and before her life is endangered bv the accession of inflammation of the abdominal cavity. From this view of the matter, we mav reasonably expect, that recoveries will be more frequent in France, than in England and Scot- land, where the reverse practice obtains. And, it is from such cases as these, in which it is em- ployed in France, that the value of the operation ought to be appreciated. Who would be san- guine in his expectation of a recovery under such circumstances, as it has generally been resorted to in this country, namely, where the female has laboured for years under malacosleon, (mollities ossium) a disease hitherto in itself incurable; where she has been brought into imminent dan- ger by previous inflammation of the intestines ; or other contents of the abdominal cavity ; or been exhausted by a labour of a week’s continu- ance, or even longer.” Dr. FIull thus refutes the opinion of Mr. W. Simmons, that our ill success was owing to climate, or some peculiarity in the constitutions of the females of this island. (See Hull's Defence oj' the Ciesureun Operation, p. 10.) When the foetus is contained in the womb, and cannot be expelled, by reason of the invin- cible obstacles, to which I have already referred, the Caesarean Operation should be practised, be- fore the mother, and fetus, both perish from the violence of the pains, hemorrhage, convulsions, &e. For this purpose, it is necessary to make an ex- tensive incision in the integuments of the abdomen, and in the uterus. Some have thought, that cut- ting the parietes of thebelly would be mortal, while others have believed a wound of the uterus equally dangerous. Hence, such persons have condemned the operation on the principle, that religious rea- sons do not authorize taking one life to save an- other. All the opponents of the Caesarean Ope- ration fear the hemorrhage, which, they say, must follow. Indeed, if the uterus were not to contract sufficiently, when the foetus and after birth had come away, the bleeding would really be perilous. But when, by means of the Caesa- rean Operation, the fictus is extracted, together with the -placenta and me'mbranes, the uterus contracts, just as it docs after a natural labour. Besides, even when the mother is alive, the ope- ration is not commonly done, till the uterus evinces a propensity to deliver itself, and begins to contract. The womb being delivered of its contents, the incision becomes closed, the vessels obliterated, and there is no fear of hemorrhage. The wound must also make so irritable an organ more disposed to contract; but, whatever argu- ments may be adduced, it is enough to say in this case : Arlcm expcricnlia fecit, cxemplo mon- straiite viam. Roussel, in 1581, published a work, in French, entitled, llystcrotomic, on I,’Accouchement Cfsaricn. This book, in 1601, was translated into Latin, and enlarged with an S