uiceu, win yuu “w” vith air, in an adequate degree, an object of the ii>Th«st moment ? A pair of bellows seems to me ilmost essential to this purpose. I shall say lothing on the probability of many practitioners •oming to the patient unprovided with the requi- re sort of tube. If a pair of bellows, with a curved pipe, be em- loved, many surgeons would be a considerable me in getting the muzzle into the glottis, and, i the mean while every spark of life might be xtinguished. On the other hand, bronchotomy performed by a man of ordinary care and skill) ; an operation free from danger. It maybe exe- uted with a penknife, if no better instrument a at hand; and, when the incision has been lade, a pair of common bellows will suffice for ic inflation of the lungs. Did I conceive/ . tat bronchotomy were a perilous operation; that ie lungs could be effectually distended without i ie employment of bellows; that the object could enerally be accomplished as expeditiously with- ut cutting into the trachea; 1 should be as ready ) join in the condemnation of this last proceed- . ig, as any contemporary writer. Greatly, owever, as I respect most of the authors, who iifer from me on this point, the reasons I have isigned, prevent me from subscribing to their ■nti'ment. Desault, who may be regarded as the under of the doctrine, concerning the inutility ‘ bronchotomy, it is also to be observed, spoke lly from theory, and not actual practice, in : ese cases. With respect to the performance of the opera- >n, no preparation is necessary, as delay only in- eases the danger. The patient being seated in arm-chair, or, what is better, laid on a bed th his head hanging backward, an incision is to • made, which is to begin beiow the cricoid car- . age, and to be continued downward, about two . ches, along the space between the sterno-thy- , idei muscles. Care should be taken not to cut I e lobes of the thyroid gland, lest a troublesome I d dangerous bleeding be occasioned, and, as I e left subclavian vein lies a little below the | per part of the first bone of the sternum, the | ■ ision should never extend so low as this point. II ie knife must not be carried either to the right left, in order to avoid all risk of injuring the ge blood vessels situated at the sides of the cbea. The incision in the integuments having m made, the sternothyroidei muscles are to be died a little towards the side of the neck, so as I bring the trachea fairly into view. Most I hers recommend the point of the knife to he j n introduced between the third and fourth car- !. ge of the trachea, and the opening to be en- f' red transversely. It is true, that, in this way, [ opening may be safely made, large enough to | 1 iw a small cannula to be introduced. It is ir, however, in all cases, to enlarge the open- in the perpendicular direction, by cutting from hin outward. There is no advantage in avoid- a wound of the cartilages of the trachea, the y reason assigned for cutting the membrane wren them, in a transverse direction; while efficiently large opening cannot he thus safely ained, in cases in which it is necessary to intro- ;c: the muzzle of a pair of bellows, in order to ate the lungs. In short, it is safer and better, ’very instance, to make the wound in the tru- a in a perpendicular manner. * aiuiv.ii, iiidl may ut formed by a man of ordinary skill, without hazard. It is far otherwise with a careless practitioner. We read in Desault’s work, that in one instance, the carotid artery was wounded. The following cautions, given by Mr. A. Burns, seem entitled to notice. “The arteria innominata is in risk in some subjects. I have seen it mounting so high on the forepart of the trachea, as to reach the lower border of the thyroid gland. Even the right carotid artery is not always safe. I am in pos- session of a cast, taken from a boy of twelve years of age, which shews the right carotid artery crossing the trachea in an oblique direction. In this subject, that vessel did not reach the lateral part of the trachea till it had ascended two inches and a quarter above the top of the sternum. “ Where both carotid arteries originate from the arteria innominata, there is considerable dan- ger in performing the operation of tracheotomy, lor, in such cases, the left carotid crosses the tra- chea pretty high in the neck. Professor Scarpa has seen a specimen of this distribution in a male subject, and I have met with five. “ These varieties in the course of the arteries are worthy of being known, and remembered; they will teach the operator to be on his guard, since he can never, a priori, ascertain the arrange- ment of the vessels with any degree of certainty. It will impress on his mind the impropriety of using the knife further, than merely to divide the integuments and fasciae. If lie then clear the trachea with the fingers, he will never injure any of the large arteries. When, with the finger, he has fairly brought the trachea into view, he ought to examine carefully, whether any of the large arteries lie in fiont of it, and if he find one, he ought to depress it toward the chest, before lie penetrates into the windpipe. “ In cutting into the trachea, the preferable plan is to cut the rings from below upward, avoid- ing injury of the thyroid gland.” (See A. Bums on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Keck, p, 31)3, 394.) When bronchotomy is performed for the pur- pose of inflating the lungs, the cut in the wind- pipe must be made somewhat larger, than when an opening is required merely to enable the patient to breathe through a small cannula. The larger size of the pipe of the bellows, is the reason of this circumstance. When a cannula is introduced, care must he taken not to pass it too far into the wound, lest it should injure the opposite side of tlm trachea. This is a caution, on which Fabricius ab Aquapen- dente dwells very strongly, and with good reason. Small as the vessels may be, which are divided in bronchotomy, they occasionally bleed so much, as to create apprehension, and even prevent the continuance of the operation. There is a case in Van Swieten’s Commentaries, confirming this remark. A Spanish soldier, aged twenty-three, was in the most urgent danger from an inflam- mation of his throat. It was thought nothing could save him, except bronchotomy. After the longitudinal cut in the skin, and the separation of the muscles, the trachea was opened between two of tlie cartilages; hut the blood insinuated itself into this canal, and excited so violent a cough, that the cannula could not ho kept in by any means, though it was replaced several times. Louis remarks, that, in this instance, the patient s