HS ANEURISM. along with it, or of destroying, some of the principal anastomoses formed by the articular arteries of the knee. On account of the depth of the artery, it is difficult to pass any instrument round it, without including other parts, and it is no less difficult to draw the ligature on the ves- sel with a proper degree of tightness. Scarpa then comments on the disadvantages of tying the lacerated, diseased part of the vessel, which is sometimes so high up, that, in order to apply the ligature above it, it is necessary to cut through the long head of the triceps, and make a passage through into the thigh. Or, the dis- eased, or lacerated part of the artery is situated so low down in the calf of the leg, that it is impossible to avoid including, cither in the inci- sion, or the ligature, the lower anastomosing articular arteries, on the preservation of which the circulation and life of the subjacent part of the limb in a great measure depend. We must add to all this the violence, which must be done to the great sciatic nerve, which an assistant must bold drawn to one side of the wound nearly the whole time of the operation. The proceeding is also liable to other great difficulties, as may be seen from a case reported by Masotti, (DU. suL Aneurysma, p. 53,) where the popliteal artery was so firmly united, and, as it were, confused with the vein, the nerve, the tendons of the neighbouring muscles, and the periosteum, that the cavity of the ham presented the appearance of an intricate mass of parts, not easily separable from one another. Lastly, the operation leaves a large deep wound, laying open the whole cavity of the ham, and followed by copious sup- puration, sinuses, and necrosis of the heads of the femur and tibia. If the patient be not hurried into his grave by these affections, and even if the parts in the ham heal, the patient is almost always left with an incurable contraction of the knee, and perpetual lameness. Thus, Masotti (Op. cit. p. 17,) relates one case, where the sub- sequent effects were such as to destroy the soft parts in the cavity of the ham, in such a degree, as not to leave any vestige of artery, vein, or sciatic nerve, and the patient remained all the rest of his life with a paralytic leg, and ulcers and fistulse all round the knee. (Scarpa on Aneu- rism, p. 251-253, Ed. 2.) I shall now advert to a few facts in the history of surgery, which eventually led to the bold and successful operations, adopted in modern times, for the cure of aneurisms of the femoral and po- pliteal arteries. The earliest ease, of which the particulars are recorded, amounting to a satis- factory proof, that the lower extremity might be duly supplied with blood, notwithstanding the femoral artery had been tied high up in the thigh, is the example, related by M. A. Severinus, of a false aneurism of the thigh, about eight fingers’ breadth below the groin, caused by a musket-ball wound. In this instance, Severinus tied the femoral artery above and below the aperture in it, and not only was the patient’s life saved, but the use of the limb also preserved. (Chirurgiev Efjicach, P. 2, Enurnitoria.) The next authentic case of the ligature of the femoral artery, is that reported by Saviard, where M. Bottentuit, in 1G88, tied this artery on account of a false aneurism, the result 'of a sword wound at the inner and upper part of the thigh. The surgeons, called into consultation, were immediately con- vinced, that the only thing to be done was to take up the femoral artery; but, they were fear- ful, lest the patient should perish of bleeding, ere the opening in the vessel could be found, and, in case the artery were secured, they apprehended the obstruction of the circulation would be fol- lowed by mortification of the limb. The patient was therefore first prepared for his fate by the administration of the sacrament. A band was then applied round the upper part of the limb, and tightened by means of a stick, with which it was twisted, a piece of pasteboard being put under the knot, in order to render the con- striction less painful. The tumor was then opened, the clotted blood extracted, and the opening in the artery detected by slackening the tourniquet. A curved needle, armed with a double ligature, was then introduced under the femoral artery, and one of the cords was tied above, and the other below, the wound in the vessel. Then follows a curious passage, shewing the operator’s judgment at that time, respecting the impropriety of interposing any cylinder of linen between the kuot of the ligature and the arterj-, as some of the old surgeons at that time used to do, as well as a few of the moderns. “ On tie mit. point de petites compresses sur le corps de I’artere an dessus du nceud, comma font quelqucs uns, pureeque l’on j' gea qu'it etoit d'une grande consequence, de Her tres-etioitement une artere si considerable, ce que I’on n'auroit pas eli sur de faire cn interposant hi petite compresse, &fc.” For greater security, assistants, who relieved each other in turn, kept up constant pressure on the tied part of the vessel for twenty-four hours. In six weeks, the patient recovered, and afterwards enjoyed such good health, that be went through several campaigns. (Saviard, Nouveau ricueii d'Observations Chir. Obi. 6’3, 1 l2mo. Paris, 1702.) Now, with respect to these two cases, it merits attention, that, though Heister, Morgagni, and others, endeavoured to explain the success, by- supposing, that each of the patients in question must have had two femoral arteries, both Seve- rinus, and Saviard, were wise enough to avoid making any such erroneous inference themselves. At a later period, Guattanf laid bare the femoral artery, as it passed under Poupart’s ligament, compressed it against the ramus of the pubes, by means of graduated compresses, retained with a firm roller, and thus obtained the speedy obli- teration of the vessel, and cured the aneurism, which had been first injudiciously opened. (De Extends Aneurysmalihus, IlUt. 15, 4to. lion cr, 1772.) In the same book is given the case of an Inguinal aneurism, which when it had con- tinued three months, and become equal in size to a large fist, was attacked with gangrene, whereby the aneurismal sac was quickly destroyed, and the femoral artery was obliterated for a con- siderable extent from the crural arch downwards. The sloughs were thrown off, however, and the ulcer had in a great measure healed, when the patient fell a victim to debility. (HUt. 17.) Here it is to be remarked, that, during the five weeks this man lived after the obliteration of the femoral artery, above the origin of the profunda, not only the circulation and life of the whole limb were preserved, but the auxiliary arteries,