DISLOCATION. 3GI axilla, and drawing the arm at the wrist, in a line with the side of the body, whereby the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi are kept in a relaxed state. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 25.) Extension may either be made by means of assistants, who are to take hold of napkins, or sheets, put round the part, at which it is judged proper to make the extension ; or else a multi- plied pulley may be used. In cases of difficulty, Ur. A. Cooper thinks the pulley should always . be preferred. “When assistants are employed, their exertions are sudden, violent, and often ill- directed, and the force is more likely to produce . laceration of parts, than to restore the bone to its ■ situation. Their efforts are also often uneom- bined, and their muscles are necessarily fatigued, . as those of the patient, whose resistance they are , employed to overcome.” In dislocations of the hip joint, and in those of the shoulder which have been long unreduced, pulleys should always be employed. (A. Camper, Surgical Essays, Pari 1, />. 24.) But, whether pulleys be used, or not, Iiinsr more need be added to what Mr. Pott has stated, concerning the propriety of using moderate force in the first instance, and increas- ing the extending power very gradually. The extension should always be first made in the same direction, in which the dislocated bone is thrown ; but, in proportion as the muscles yield, ihe bone is to be gradually brought back into its natural position. Thus the head of the bone be- comes disengaged from the parts, among which it has been placed, and is brought back to the articular cavity again by being made to follow the same course, which it took in escaping from it. Extension will prove quite unavailing, unless .he bone, with which the dislocated head is na- turally articulated, be kept motionless by counter- rxtension, or a force at least equal to the other, but made in a contrary direction. The mode of fixing the scapula and pelvis, in luxations of the shoulder and thigh, will be here- after described. In dislocations of ginglymoid joints, extension and counter-extension are only made, for the auqiose of diminishing the friction of the sur- aces of the joints, so as to be enabled to put hem in their natural situation. When the attempts at reduction fail, the want bf success is sometimes owing to the extension lot being powerful enough, and the great mus- •ular strength of the patient, which counteracts .11 efforts to replace the bone. In the latter case, the patient may be freely iled, and put into a warm bath, so as to make dm faint. The opening in the vein should be nade large, because a sudden evacuation of blood ? more likely to produce weakness and swooning, ban a gradual discharge of it; and the patient, or the same reason, may be bled as he stands up. n very difficult cases, the expedient of intoxi- j ation has been recommended, as when the pa- tent is in this state, his muscles are incapable of taking great resistance to reduction. Under hese circumstances, opium is also frequently dministered, with advantage. When the mus- ics make considerable opposition, Mr. A. Cooper, nstead of bleeding and the warm bath, has somc- nncs given nauseating doses of tartarized anti- nonv; a practice, which has been occasionally '■dopted by others. The medicine should be ex- hibited in repeated doses, until nausea is excited; but, it is not necessary to make the patient vomit; for, as soon as the nauseating effect is produced, “ the muscles lose their tone, and dislocations can be reduced with comparatively less effort, and at a more distant time from the accident, than can be effected in any other way.” (rJ. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 22.) In cases of unusual difficulty, this method, together with the warm bath and bleeding, seems rational and judi- cious : but, exrcept in cases of that description, I should prefer long continued, unremitting, not too violent, extension, which will at last over- come the muscles of the most athletic man. Sometimes the resistance made to reduction by such muscles, as act in obedience to the will, may be eluded by the patient’s attention being suddenly taken from the injured part, at which moment the action of those muscles is suspended, and a very little effort on the part of the surgeon will reduce the bone. A case, illustrating this circumstance, is recorded by Mr. A. Cooper. (Part 1, p. 25.) Dislocations of orbicular joints can seldom be reduced, after a month, though Desault used to succeed, with great violence, at the end of three or four. Dislocations of ginglymoid articula- tions generally become irreducible in twenty, or twenty-four days, in consequence of anchylosis. The reduction of a dislocation is known by the limb recovering its natural length, shape, and direction, and being able to perform certain motions, not possible while the bone was out of its place. The patient experiences a great and sudden diminution of pain ; and, very often, the head of the bone makes a noise at the moment when it returns into the cavity of the joint. In order to keep the bone from slipping out of its place again, we have only to hinder the limb from moving. When splints can act power- fully in steadying the joint, they are very often used, as in dislocations of the ankle, wrist, &c. As the humerus cannot be luxated, except when at some distance from the body, a return of its dislocation will be prevented by con- fining the arm close to the side in a sling The spica bandage, applied after such an accident, is more satisfactory to the patient, than really ef- ficacious. Whatever bandage is used to keep the arm from moving, should be put on the lower end of the bone, us far as possible from the centre of motion. COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. Compound Dislocations are those, which are attended with a wound communicating with the cavities of the injured joints. In most instances, this opening in the skin is caused by the pro- trusion of the bone, but sometimes by the part having struck against some hard, or irregular body. These accidents arc frequently attended with great danger; and the same nicety ot judgment is requisite in determining, whether amputation ought to be immediately performed, or an effort made to preserve the limb, as in cases of compound fractures, and bad gunshot injuries; and many of the observations which I shall to have offer upon the latter subjects, will, for the most part, be applicable to the pre- sent.