59V HEMORRHOIDS. teeth, the reader may find some remarks in the JSdinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. No. 58, p. 157. The hemorrhage from the bites of leeches sometimes proves exceedingly obstinate, and instances of death from this cause have occa- sionally happened, particularly in children. When common methods fail, the plan has been recently tried of passing a fine sewing needle throMgh the skin on one side of the wound, and then another through the skin on the opposite side, and then twisting some thread round the needles, so as to draw them together, and close the bite. The experiment fully answered. (See Loud. Med. Repository, January 1819, p. '2'.]—26.) For more information, respecting hemorrhage, see Amputation, Aneurism, Arteries, Ligature, and Wounds. Consult also Petit's Memoirs, among those of l' Acad, des Sciences for they curs 1731, 1732 —1735: Mot and sur Ic Changement, qui ar- rive amv Arte res coupees, 1736: Pouteau, MRanges do Chirvrgie : Gooch's Chirurgical Works, Vol. 1.: Kirkland's Essay on the Me- thod of suppressing Hemorrhages from divided Arteries, Uvo. Lond. 1763: While’s Cases in Surgery: J. Bell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. 1.: Partie Chirurgicale de I'Evcycl. Meth.: Larrcy, Mimoircs dc Chirurgie Mi- litaire, Tom. 2, p. 379. Pelletan, Clinique Chir. T. 2, p. 240, S{c. Memoire Elcmentaire sur les Ilcmorrhagies. Richerand, Nosogra- phic Chir. T. 4. Sect, sur les Maladies des Arteres, p. 23, S[c. Edit. 4. Leveille, Nou- vclle Doctrine Chir. T. 1, Chap. 3, and, par- ticularly, Jones on the Process employed by Nature, in suppressing the Hemorrhage from divided and punctured Arteries, 1805. Many usef ul remarks on the subject ofhemorrhage will be found in Hodgson's Treatise on the Diseases of Arter ies and Veins. See also Observations upon the Ligature of Arteries, and the causes of secondary Hemorrhage, 8f c. by B. Travers, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 435, ct seq. Likewise f urther observations on the ligature of arteries by the same, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 632^ et seq. Lawrence on a New Method of Tying the Arteries in Aneurism, Amputation, tjc. in Vol. 6 of the Med. Chir. Trans, p. 156, fc. and Grampian in Vol. 7 of the same work. Langenbeck, Bibl. B. 1. Dr. J. Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 250, Sfc. and Observations made in the Mili- tary Hospitals in Belgium, p. 42—44. Scarpa on Aneurism, and particularly his Memoir on the ligat u re of arteries: this is contained in the Second Edit, of the Tran si. by Mr. Wish art. Bcclard, Experiences sur les Blcssures des Ar- teres. John Cross, vl Case of Amputation, with some Experiments and Observations on the securing of Arteries with minute silk ligatures, in Loud. ' Med. Repository, Vol. 7, p. 353. The author relates several experiments for the purpose of ascertaining the utility of tying ar- teries with such ligatures, and cutting the two ends of close to the knot. They were performed on the carotids of dogs and asses. The conclu- sions arc unfavourable to the practice. After one case of amputation, where the method was tried., the stump healed slowly, and for several qnonths small abscesses repeatedly formed. HEMORRHOIDS, (from atpia, blood, and ptw, to flow ) Biles, divided into such as do not bleed, and termed blind, and into others subject to occasional hemorrhage, and distinguished by the epithet open. The etymological meaning of the word is evidently only a discharge of blood. Surgeons, however, sanctioned by long custom, have generally implied, by the term hemorrhoids, either a simple bleeding from the veins of the lower part of the rectum recurring more or less frequently, yet not accompanied with any di- stinguishable permanent tumors, within, or on the outside of the anus; or else swellings formed by a varicose distention and morbid thickening of those vessels, either with, or without occasional hemorrhage; or lastly, tumors originally pro- duced by effused blood, which is sometimes con- verted into an organized substance. (.Abcrncthy, Surgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 234.) According to Richter, blind hemorrhoids consist of preternatural cysts, or sacs, at the lower ex- tremity of the rectum, from the size of a pea to that of an apple. Sometimes they are distended with blood, and very much swelled ; and, at other periods, entirely subside; though, when they have been often considerably swelled, they never quite disappear, but are alternately in a full enlarged state, and empty and flaccid. Indeed, the more frequent and considerable the enlargement has been, the greater is their size. It is generally- supposed, that these tumors, or cysts, are vari- cose expansions of the veins of the rectum ; and, probably, says Richter, this may sometimes really be the case; but, the disease is not always of this nature. In particular instances, and, perhaps, in most cases, they arise from an extravasation of blood under the inner coat of the rectum ; and then the cyst is altogether formed by this mem- brane, and not by the vein. The following cir- cumstances furnish proof of what has been here observed. Hemorrhoids are sometimes as large as a walnut, or apple; yet, it is scarcely credible, that a mere varix could attain such a size. When cut away, the bleeding is often very slight, even when they are large. Surely, if the tumors were varices, there would always be profuse he- morrhage. Sometimes the cyst is found quite empty; hut, how can a varix be supposed to be in this state? The shape of hemorrhoids is also remarked to be subject to greater variety, than can hardly attend dilatations of veins : thus, they are sometimes oblong, sometimes cylindrical, hke a finger, &c. Lastly, when cut.away, the sac is plainly seen to consist only of a single mem- brane. (Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 6, p. 395, Ed. 2, Gbit. 1802.) At the same time, it should be recollected- that “ the blood sometimes coagulates in the di- lated vein, and the swelling becomes hard, in- flamed, and very painful. The coagulum is sub- sequently absorbed, but the thickened coats of the vein, and the surrounding parts form a tumor, which is liable to inflame, and afTord great distress.” (Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, dj-o. p. 566.) In short, all surgeons, who consider the disease as varices, admit with Sir E. Home, that in cases of long standing, the contents of hemorrhoidal tumors “ coagulate and become solid; their coats increase in thickness* and they resemble pendulous excrescent tumors in other situations in the body.” ([On Ulcers, <$r.) Availing himself of the extensive op-