9 31 POLYPUS. n bv extraction- When the polypus is of •h a size as to occupy the whole of the nostril, is generally impracticable to introduce the ose to a sufficient depth. The figure of the ypus renders it almost impossible to tie its t; for, commonly, the tumor expands very .ch before and behind, and the wire must be ught over the posterior part of the polypus, it can be applied to its root. In general, .0, the noose only includes the front part of the I ypus, while the root, and back portion remain I tied, and, consequently, do not become de- hed.—Jt is, indeed, asserted, that the ligature, en only applied to the front part of the poly- ;, is capable of bringing about inflammation, puration, and a detachment of the whole of tumor. This may sometimes be the case; , analogous instances prove, that it is un- lbtedly not constantly so. The ligature sel- n accomplishes an entire destruction of the ease, and there is usually reason to apprehend recurrence. If the polypus be very large, l the whole nostril occupied, it is frequently erly impossible to introduce the wire; and, en this is done, the front of the tumor alone a be tied. : The polypus nasi is commonly highly sensi- , and, consequently, tying it proves very pain- . As soon as the noose is drawn tight, not ly the polypus inflames, but the whole extent the Schneiderian membrane. The pain, and fc^ilammation, often extend even to parts at s ne distance, such as the throat, eyes, &c. oc- i.ioning acute fever, which requires the strict s servance of low diet, the exhibition of cool- :' physic, and the evacuation of blood. Hence, s advisable in many cases, to prepare patients • this treatment, by diet and medicines. ' When the polypus is tied, it swells very much, d all the complaints which it previously caused e exasperated. But, in particular, the part uated in the throat, sometimes obstructs de- jtition, and respiration, in such a degree, that ompt relief becomes necessary; and one of e best plans for affording it, is to make a few tnctures in the tumor. These excite a bleed- g, that very speedily lessens the swelling, but sometimes, difficult to check. Hemorrhage im a part of the polypus that is tied, is most feetually stopped, by twisting the wire so tight, at it closes the arteries distributed to it. The wire sometimes breaks off close to the wer aperture of the cannula, in consequence of ing twisted so much, and thus the progress of e cure is interrupted. A new wire may be in- iduced; but it is difficult to apply it exactly the situation of the other. A fresh place is immonly tied, which is almost the same thing commencing the cure anew. It is better to event this interruption of the treatment, by nploying very flexible wire, made of the purest lver; and by not twisting and untwisting re- ularly the same extremity of it, but sometimes ae and sometimes the other. A strong piece of it-gut might be a very good substitute for sil- er wire. Immediately the polypus is tied, it swells, in- ames, and becomes painful; in a few days, it ctomes shrunk, free from pain, and sphacelated, he fetid discharge now occasions considerable icoiivenicncc to the patient, and ought to be washed away by repeated injections. Towards the termination of the case, the surgeon ought to take hold of the polypus with the forceps, to try whether any of it is loose. When the poly- pus is extracted, one may inject a solution of alum, for a day or two afterwards, in order to diminish the effect of the irritating discharge on the Schneiderian membrane, and the suppuration in the situation of the ligature, as it is sometimes profuse, and of long duration. Though one might also tie polypous tumors in the throat; and, indeed, the introduction of the cannula through the mouth, and the application of the noose, would be attended with no great difficulty; and, though the treatment might be rendered more tolerable to the patient, by with- drawing the cannula after twisting the wire ; yet, the swelling of the tied portion of the tumor would, probably, create immense inconvenience. In this case, therefore, extraction usually merits the preference, and the ligature is only fit to be practised in the throat when the polypus is very small, or there is some especial cause forbidding extraction. When deglutition and respiration are impeded by the swelling of the tied portion of the polypus in the throat, the swollen part must be scarified by means of the pharyngotomus, so as to excite a bleeding, and, thereby, produce a diminution of the swelling. The noose is to be frequently and strongly tightened, in order to accelerate the detachment of the polypus, and shorten the inconveniences. When the excres- cence has not only descended towards the pha- rynx, but also into the nostril, its front portion is to be tied first. The result of this may be, such an inflammation and suppuration of the whole polypus, that, after the separation of its anterior portion, the posterior one may also become detached, or at least, easy of removal. Caustics. The cautery, formerly recommended for the cure of the polypus nasi, is now almost entirely rejected, and, indeed, in the manner it was customary to use it, little good could be done. It was applied to the anterior surface of the tumor in the nostril, and its employment was repeated every time the slough separated. Its operation could naturally be but of small ex- tent. as it only came into contact with a trivial portion of the polypus. Its irritation augmented the determination of blood to the excrescence, and accelerated its growth ; while as much of the tumor was reproduced, ere the slough separated, as was thus destroyed ; and the design of com- pletely extirpating the disease, in this way, sel- dom or never proved successful. However, says Richter, there is one particular example, where the cautery is the only means from which relief can be derived; and, used in a certain way, it always speedily produces the desired effect. There are some nasal polypi, much disposed to profuse bleeding. Touching them in the gentlest manner, and every trivial concussion of the body, give rise to hemorrhage. The patient is exceedingly debilitated by repeated loss of blood; his countenance is pallid; his feet swol- len; he is affected with hectic lever; and faints whenever there is any considerable bleeding. Doubtless, extraction, in this case, is a very pre- carious method, as the patient is so circum- stanced, that any copious effusion ot blood must .1 O 2