770 LITHOTOMY. bladder contracts, and sinks behind the os pubis, this wound ceases to bo parallel to that in the linca alba and integuments, and becomes deeper and deeper. For the prevention of these ill con- sequences, says Sabatier, it will be in vain to make the patient lie in a horizontal posture, and keep a catheter introduced, as Rousset and Morand recommended: experience evincing, that the bad effects are neither less frequent, nor less fatal. (See Medecine Operatoirc, T. 3, p. 161, Edit. 2.) And SirEverard Home con- fesses, that while the high operation for the stone had no other channel but the wound for carrying off the urine, it seemed to him a method, which ought never to be adopted; “ the urine almost always insinuating itself into the cellular mem- brane behind the pubes, producing sloughs, and consequently abscesses.” {On Strictures, Vol. S, p. 359, 8vo. Loud. 1821.) 4■ The danger of exciting inflammation of the peritonaeum. 5. The injection itself is exceedingly painful, and, however slow the fluid be injected, the bladder can seldom be dilated enough to make the ope- ration absolutely secure ; and, when hastily di- lated (to say nothing of the possibility of its burst- ing), its tone may be destroyed. (See Sharp, Allan, Sabatier, fyc.) In many men, however, we know by search- ing, that the bladder is very large, so that there is no risk of meeting with it in a contracted state, and the objection is of no weight, when the bladder extends a considerable way above the pubes, and will admit a large quantity of injec- tion. Stones are sometimes known to be of large size, and they are less likely to be broken in this, than any other mode of lithotomy, so that the objection of the difficulty of extracting small cal- culi and fragments is less forcible. Mr. Carpue even declares, that if the stone should break, the particles can be extracted with much greater cer- tainty, in less time, and with considerably less pain, than in the lateral operation. (History of the High Operation, p. 154.) I may add, that some judicious surgeons of the present day are decidedly of opinion, that when a stone in the bladder is known to be very large, no attempt ought ever to be made to extract it from the perinaeum. Professor Scarpa also declares, that the lateral operation should not be practised, when the calculus exceeds twenty lines in its small diameter. (See Memoir on the Cutting Gorget of Hawkins, p. 8, transl. by Briggs.) In such cases, it is true, the surgeon might do the lateral operation, and try to break the stone. But it is a question whether one ought not to prefer to this unpleasant, unsatisfactory, pro- ceeding the high operation. I speak particularly of cases, in which the stone is known to be of very large dimensions before any operation is begun. Were the lateral operation commenced, the stone, if too large for extraction, must of course be broken; for, it is then too late to adopt the high operation with advantage. That such things have been done, however, and yet the patients escaped, is a truth, which cannot be denied. Deschamps mentions an instance, in which M. Lassus, after using Hawkins’s gorget, could not draw out the calculus, and he therefore immediately did the high operation, and the patient recovered. Indeed, the first example of the high operation on record was done by Franco under similar circumstances, and the patient was saved. I have also heard of a modern French surgeon, who began with the lateral operation, but, finding a large calculus, ended with perform- ing the high operation, without the least delay, or hesitation : the patient died. Mr. Samuel Sharp, an excellent practical sur- geon in his time, after noticing with great impar- tiality the objections, which were then urged against the high operation, says, that he should not be surprised, if hereafter it were revived and practised with success; an observation, which implied, that Mr. Sharp himself foresaw, that the method was capable of being so improved, as to free it from its most serious inconveniences. In fact, since his time, various attempts have been made to introduce the high operation anew, and upon improved principles. Frere Come, in par- ticular, knew very well, that there were circum- stances, as for instance, a calculus above a cer- tain size, disease of the urethra, or prostate gland, &c., where the lateral operation was liable to great difficulties and disadvantages, and where the high operation, if it could be perfected, would be a fitter and safer mode of proceeding. How- ever, it was only in such cases, and not in all, that Frere Come thought the method better than the lateral operation. He had also discernment enough to perceive, that it was extremely desira- ble to invent some means, whereby the painful and hurtful distention of the bladder, for the pur- pose of making this organ rise behind the pubes, would be rendered unnecessary, at the same time, that some measure was adopted for letting the urine have a more depending outlet, than the wound in the hypogastric region. In the former editions of this dictionary, the error was com- mitted of representing Come to have cut the neck of the bladder, as well as its fundus; a mis- take, which I first became aware of upon the per- usal of Mr. Caipue’s interesting work on litho- tomy. The fact is, that Come did not wound the bladder in two places; but operated after the following way : he first introduced through the urethra into the bladder a staff which was then held by an assistant. An incision, an inch in length, was now made in the perinaeum in the sarnie direction, as in the lateral operation. An- other incision was made in the membranous part of the urethra along the groove of the staff as far as the prostate gland. A very deeply grooved director was then passed along the staff into the bladder, and the latter instrument was withdrawn. By means of the director, a sonde a dard, or kind of catheter furnished with a stilette, was now introduced into the bladder, and, when this had been done, the director was taken out. An in- cision was then made, about three or four inches in length, just above the symphysis of the pubes, down to, and in the direction of the linea alba. A trocar, in which there was a concealed bistoury, was next passed into the linea alba, close to the pubes, and the blade of the knife then started from its sheath towards the handle of the instru- ment, while its other end remained stationary. In this manner, the lower part of the linea alba was cut from below upwards, and an aperture was made, which was now enlarged with a probe- pointed curved knife, behind which a finger was kept so as to push the peritonaeum out of the way. Cmnc then took hold of the sonde u dard