911 OPHTHALMY. he sea-coast, anil the respiration of the sea-air, nay bring about some of those advantages, .vhich have been exclusively attributed to bath- nir. Friction of the body with a flesh-brush ,r° flannel, should be employed morning and ■vening. With regard to topical applications, those of a .oft relaxing kind prove injurious, as also retire- ment in dark situations. Slightly astringent col- vria ; the ung. tutise, and the ung. hyd. nitrat. ire proper when there are excoriations upon the ivelids, and when, from their occasional adhesion ;o each other, there is reason to suspect, that the ■el-aceous glands secrete an acrimonious fluid. Mr. Ware also found that one drop of the the- jaic tincture, dropped into the eye, once or twice n the course of the day, contributed greatly, joth to abate the irritability and to increase the strength of the relaxed vessels. (On Scrophu- ous Ophthalmy, p. 26.) The same gentleman jceasionally mixed old verjuice with cold spring- .vater, at first, in the proportion of one part ol :he former to six of the latter, and sometimes increased the quantity of verjuice, until its quan- tity equalled that of the water. All coverings should be removed from the eyes, except a shade of green silk, and patients should be gradually habituated to a stronger light. Good air and exercise always tend to improve scrophulous constitutions, and thus, indirectly, the disease under consideration. Scrophula often disappears ■ spontaneously, as children approach the adult only have it in our power to the early stage of life, it out afterwards, and what- ever local effects, it may have produced, often disappear. Chronic Ophthalmy. Unfavourable peculi- arities are met with in practice, which prevent the complete cure of the second stage of acute ophthalmy, or that connected with a weak’ vas- cular action in the part affected; whence the protracted disease becomes purely chronic, and threatens the slow destruction of the eye. These peculiarities may be chiefly referred to three causes: 1. To an increased irritability con- tinuing in the eye after the cessation of acute inflammation. 2. To some other existing affec- tion of the eye, or neighbouring parts, of which the chronic ophthalmy is only an effect. 3. To constitutional disease. 1. That chronic ophthalmy may depend upon a morbid irritability of the eye is evinced, not only from its resisting topical astringents and corroborants, to which the disease from simple relaxation and weakness yields, but from its being exasperated by them, and even by cold water. The patient complains of a sense of weight in the upper eyelid, and restraint in opening it; the conjunctiva has a yellowish cast, and when exposed to the damp cold air, or a brilliant light, or when the patient studies by candle-light, its vessels become injected and tur- gid with blood. If, in combination with such symptoms, the habit of body be weak and ir- ritable ; subject to spasms ; hypochondriasis, &c. •hen, it is manifest, that the chronic ophthalmy Iis connected with a general impairment of the nervous system. 2. Besides extraneous bodies, lodged between - ■ ie palpebrne and eyeball, the inversion of the cilire, and hairs, growing from the caruncula laclirymalis; ulcers of the cornea; prolapsus of the :ris ; herpetic ulcerations of the margins of the eyelids; a morbid secretion from the Mei- bomian glands; a diseased enlargement of the cornea, or of the whole globe of the eye, &c. may occasion and maintain chronic opbthalmv. —It is only my part here to mention such re- mote causes; for, the particular treatment of them is described in other articles. (See Cor- nea, Ulcers of; Iris, Prolapsus of; Lip pi- ta do ; Staphyloma ; Hy dr ophthalmy; Tri- chiasis, 3. The cure of the second stage of acute oph- thalmy may be retarded by the prevalence of scrophula in the system ; or by the small-pox affecting the eyes. According to Scarpa, chronic ophthalmy is also sometimes a consequence of lues venerea; but, I know nothing certain on this subject, in addition to what has been stated in the foregoing columns. When chronic ophthalmy depends upon pre- ternatural irritability, the internal exhibition of bark with valerian is proper; animal food of easy digestion; gelatinous and farinaceous broths; wine in moderation; gentle exercise; living in salubrious and mild situations; are all severally productive of benefit. Externally, the applica- tions should be of the sedative and corroborant kind ; such as aromatic spirituous vapours (from the spiHtus ammon. comp.) applied to the eye through a funnel, for half an hour, three or four times a day; and the eyelids and eyebrows may also be rubbed with the liniinentum eam- phorse. Patients, both during the treatment and after the cure, must refrain from straining the eye, and, immediately the least uneasiness is felt, must desist from exercising it. When they write, or read, it should constantly be in a steady, uniform light, and too little, as well as too much exercise of the organ, aggravates the disease. Having once begun to use spectacles, they should never study, or survey minute objects, without them. (Scarpa.) Intermittent Ophthalmy. It is the character of certain forms of ophthalmy, like the rheu- matic and venereal, to be liable to periodical ex- acerbations ; but, I am not certain, that there are any cases specifically claiming the name of intermittent ophthalmy. The late Mr. Ware, however, has noticed some examples, which in- termitted, or, at least, remitted at stated periods. In these, he did not find bark so useful, as in scrophulous ophthalmy; but, he had seen the most beneficial effects produced by the oxy- muriate of mercury, sometimes joined with the compound decoction of sarsaparilla. ^See Wan: on Intermittent Ophthalmy.) Variolous Ophthalmy. As the small-pox in- oculation has at present almost generally been abandoned by the faculty in favour of the vaccine disease, there seems less occasion now for detail- ing circumstantially a very obstinate species of ophthalmy, induced bv the former complaint. When the smnll-pox eruption is very abundant in the face, it causes n considerable swelling of this part of the body; the eyelids become tumefied, the eyes redden, and there ensues a discharge of a very thick adhesive matter, which agglutinates the palpebrae together; so that, if