d<)!» FRACTURES. extension. Then the surgeon is to take the tirst roller, which is to be wet with the liq. plum- bi acet. dil. and he is to fix one of its heads by applying two circular turns to the upper part of the fore-anti. The bandage is now to be rolled moderately tight round the arm upward, making each turn overlap two-thuds of that which is im- mediately below it. When the roller has reached the upper part of the limb, it must be doubled back a few times to prevent the folds, which the inequality of the part would create. The ban- dage is afterwards to be carried twice under the opposite axilla, and the rest of it, rolled up, is to be brought up to the top of the shoulder, and committed to the care of an assistant. The first splint is to be placed in front, reach- ing from the bend of the arm as high as the acromion. The second, on the outside from the external condyle to the same height. The third, behind, from the olecranon to the margin of the axilla. The pillow, interposed between the arm and thorax, serves as a fourth splint, which be- comes useless. An assistant applies these parts of the apparatus, and holds them on by applying his hands near the bend of the arm, in order not to obstruct the application of the remainder of the bandage. The surgeon takes hold of the bandage again, and applies it over the splints with moderate tightness, and the bandage ends at the upper part of the fore-arm, where it began. Wide the assistants continually keep up the ex- tension, the surgeon is to place the pillow between the arm and trunk, taking care to put the thick end upward, if the fracture be displaced inward ; but downward, if this should be displaced outward, which is most common. It is to be attached by two pins to the upper part of the roller. The arm is to be brought near the trunk, and fixed upon the pillow, by means of the second roller, applied round the arm and thorax. The turns of this bandage should be rather tight be- low, and slackish above, if the fracture be dis- placed inward; but, if outward, they should be slack below, and tight above. The fore-arm is to be supported in a sling, and the whole of the apparatus is to be enveloped in a napkin, which will prevent the bandages from being pushed out of their places. If the effect of the above apparatus in fulfill- ing the indications above specified is considered, we shall easily see, that they are very well ac- complished. The arm, firmly fixed against the trunk, can only move with it, and then nothing displaces the lower end of the fracture, which is equally motionless. The shoulder cannot com- municate any motion to the upper end of the fracture. The pillow, differently disposed, ac- cording to the direction, in which the lower ex- tremity of the fracture is displaced, serves to keep this part in the opposite position. Should this part of the bone project inward, the thick end of the pillow will remove it further from the chest. The bone will be kept at this distance from the side by the turns of the bnn- ' which, being very tight downward, will act "P;>yhe limb as a lever, the fulcrum for which Wf K P’^0W' ani* *he resistance, the action ’ . e Pectoral is major, lalissimus dorsi, and teres najor. rhus the bandage will have the effect of irmgmg the elbow nearer the trunk, and move the lower end of the fracture in the opposite direc- tion, so that it may be here considered as an ar- tificial muscle, directly opposing the natural ones. When tlie lower end of the fracture is drawn outward, which is most commonly the case, the contrary effect will he produced, both from the pressure exercised by the bandage on the upper end of the displaced portion of the bone, and from the situation of the elbow; which is kept outward by the thick part of the pillow. The outer splint will also prevent the lower end of the fracture from being displaced outward, both by its mechanical resistance to the bone, and by compressing the deltoid muscle, which is the chief cause of such displacement. All displace- ment of the lower end of the fracture, forward, or backward, is prevented by the back splints; and as for the longitudinal displacement, which is already prevented by the weight of the limb, it is still more effectually hindered by the com- pression of the muscles of the arm, both by the splints and roller. (See (Euvrts Chir. <le Default, par Bichat, T. 1.) FRACTURES OF THE LOWER END OF THE OS BRACHII, WITH SEPARATION OF THE CONDYLES. Fractures of the os brachii, with detachment of its condyles, seem to have escaped the notice of most authors, who have written on the dis- eases of the bones. The ancients have left us nothing upon the subject. Heister only mentions the fracture of the lower end of this bone, with a vie\y of making an unfavourable prognosis. The accident, however, is not uncommon, and Desault, in particular, had frequent occasion to meet with it. Whatever its causes may be, the two condyles are usually separated from each other by a longitudinal division, which, extending more or less upward, is bounded by another transverse, or oblique division, which occupies the whole thickness of the bone. Hence, there are three different pieces of bone, and two fractures. Sometimes, the division is more simple. Then, taking a direction outward, or inward, it crosses obliquely downward the lower end of the os brachii, terminates in the joint, and only de- taches one of the condyles from the bodv of the bone. In the first case, the deformity is greater, and the fractured part is more moveable. When pressure is made, either before, or behind, on the track of the longitudinal fracture, the two con- dyles becoming further separated from each oilier, leavd a fissure between them, and the fractured part is widened. The fore-arm is almost always in a state of pronation. On talung hold of tiie condyles, and moving them in different directions, a distinct crepitus is perceived. In the second case, the separation of the condyles from each other is not so easy; but, a crepitus can always be distinguished, on moving the detached .condyle. In one case, in which the external condyle was the only one broken, Desault found the limb always supine: a position, which the muscles insetted into this part are, doubtless, concerned in producing. In both cases, an acute pain, the almost in- evitable effect of bending, or extending, the fore- arm ; an habitual lmlf-bent state of this part of the limb, and sometimes a subsequent swelling of IC K 2