762 LIG ulcer might prove useful, if leucoma depended on a mere extravasation of lymph ; but, the fact is, the disease arises from the deposition of an opaque substance, and the disorganization of the texture of the cornea, conjointly: in this lies the difference between albugo and leucoma. See Scarpa sullc Malattic degli Ocelli; 8vo. Venezia, 1802. Richter, Anfangsgruvdc der Wundarzn. R. 3. Essays on the- Morbid Ana- tomy of the Eye, by J. Wanlrop; Edinb. 1808: chap. 11. LIGATURE. In the article Hemorrhage, it has been explained, that the immediate effect of a tight ligature on an artery, is to cut through its middle and internal coats, a circumstance that tends very much to promote the adhesion of the opposite sides of the vessel to each other. Hence, I think with Dr. Jones, in opposition to Scarpa, that the form and mode of applying a ligature to an artery should be such, as are most certain of dividing the above coats of the vessel, in a regular manner. A broad flat ligature does not seem likely to answer this purpose well; because it is scarcely possible to tie it smoothly round the artery, which is apt to be thrown into folds, or to be puckered by it, and, consequently, to have an irregular bruised wound made in its middle and internal coats. (Jones.) A ligature of an irregular form is likely to cut through these coats more com- pletely at some parts, than others; and if it does not perfectly divide them, though adhesion may yet take place, it is a slower and less cer- tain event, and secondary hemorrhage more likely to follow. The fear of tying a ligature too tight may often lead to the same disadvantages. These, and many other important circumstances, are noticed in the article Hemorrhage. Ligatures are commonly made of inkle, and rubbed with white wax. They should be round, and very firm, so as to allow being tied with some force, without risk of breaking. (See Jones on Hemorrhage, p. 1/2.) The principles, which should guide the sur- geon in the use of the ligature, were not known, until the late Dr. Jones published his valuable treatise on hemorrhage. As an able surgeon has observed, “ he has banished (at least in this country) the use of thick and broad threads, of tapes, of reserve ligatures, of cylinders of cork and wood, linen compresses, and all the con- trivances, which, employed as a security against bleeding, only served to multiply the chances of its occurrence.” (Lawrence in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 162.) In the article Amputation, I have noticed the method of cutting off both ends of the ligature close to the knot, on the face of the stump, with the view of lessening the quantity of extraneous matter in the wound, and promoting a complete union of the divided parts, without suppura- tion. This plan has been tried by Mr. Lawrence: <i The method I have adopted (says this gentle- man) consists in tying the vessels with fine sillc ligatures, and cutting oil the ends as close to the knot as is consistent with its security. Thus the foreign matter is reduced to the insignificant quantity, which forms the noose actually sur- rounding the vessel, and the knot, by which that noose is fastened. Of the silk, which 1 com- LIG monly employ, a portion sufficient to tie a large artery, when the ends are cut olfi weighs between ?o an(l go of a grain: a similar portion of the thickest kind I have tried, weighs ^ of a grain, and of the slenderest fa.'’ Mr. Lawrence states, that the kind of silk twist, which is commonly known in the shops by the name of dentist’s silk, and which is. used in making fishing lines, is the strongest material, in proportion to its size, and therefore the best calculated for our purpose, which re- quires considerable force in drawing the thread tight enough to divide the fibrous and internal coats of the arteries. This twist is rendered very hard and stiff by means of gum, which may be removed by boiling it in soap and water; but the twist then loses a part of its strength. The stoutest twist, which Mr. Lawrence has used, is a very small thread, compared with ligatures made of inkle. The quantity of such a thread, necessary for the noose and knot on the iliac artery, weighs fa of a grain ; or, if the gum has been removed, about fa. But, the finest twist, kept in the silk shops, is strong enough in its hard state, for any surgical purpose; and the noose and knot, according to Mr. Lawrence’s statement, would not weigh fa of a grain. It further appears, from the report of this gen- tleman on the subject, that there is no danger of these ligatures cutting completely through the vessel, as some surgeons have apprehended; and that, although he has not yet ascertained what becomes of the piece of ligature after the wound is united, he has never seen abscess nor any other bad symptom occasioned by them. At the time, when Mr. Lawrence wrote, he had em- ployed this method of securing the arteries in ten or eleven amputations, in six operations on the breast, and in the removal of two testicles. The cases all did well, excepting a man who lost his thigh, and who died of an affection of the lungs. (See Lawrence on a New Method of tying the Arteries in Aneurism, fac. in Mcdico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 156, fac.) The foregoing method was tried by myself in several amputations, which I performed in 1815 at Brussels, and in a larger number of cases by my friend, Mr. Collier. Our ligatures, how- ever, though small, were not so small as those judiciously recommended by Mr. Lawrence; and, on this account, no accurate inferences can be drawn from our examples, which, however, as far as I could learn, were not unfavourable to the practice. This subject was mentioned by Mr. Guthrie, as follows:—Some military surgeons, both French and English, have lAtely adopted the practice of cutting off both ends of the ligatures, close to the knot on the artery; uniting the parts, if possible, over them, and allowing the knots to find their way out as they can. The edges of the wound, in some instances, have united thoroughly in a few days, and when the knots have come off the ends of the arteries, they have caused small abscesses to be formed, which point at the nearest external surface, and are discharged with little uneasiness. I know, that many cases, treated in this manner, in the cam- paign of 1813, ended successfully, and healed in as short a time as the most favourable ones by the usual method ; and at Montpellier, in June,