845 NECROSIS. ie existence of the collection of pus, mentioned v David, is not proved by observation : in act, it was never met with by Troja, Blumen- ach, Desault, Koeliler, and many others, in eneated experiments made on the subject. 7w, p. 56 and 65 ; Weidmann, p. 36.) Kcehler thought he had seen the new bone -self destroyed bv the pus, and cloaca: thus pro- duced. (P. 68—72.) . . . Weidmann, however, deems tins opinion quite : improbable as the preceding, for the fact of he surface of these bony apertures being always mooth, always formed in one manner, and con- tent])' lined by the periosteum, decidedly proves hat they cannot arise from erosion. Troja, in his third experiment upon the re- jeneration of bones, remarked, that forty-two lours after the destruction of the medulla, there ook place, between the bone and the periosteum, m effusion of lymph, which was at first thin and ittle in quantity, but afterwards became thicker. Te noticed, in the midst of this gelatinous sub- stance, some small spaces, where it was deficient, aid which had, instead of it, a subtile, whitish, try incrustation, which, though tolerably ad- herent, could be rubbed off. These small spaces, according 'to Troja, produce the apertures, called the cloaecc. (Troja, p. 45.) In another experiment, he had an opportunity af examining the above little spaces at the end >f forty-eight hours; he affirms, that they were replaced by the large apertures, or cloacae, of the lew bone (P. 47); and that such openings were nvariably formed in the place of the small in- rrusted spaces already described. (P. 58.) As I'roja took notice, that no lymph was effused at hesc particular points, he was inclined to impute he circumstance to a defect in the ossification, md, perhaps, to the death of some parts of the /criostcum. Weidmann acknowledges, that the mode, in which the formation of the eloaem hap- aens, is exceedingly obscure; and expresses his belief, that Troja’s account of it approaches the nearest to the truth. But, says he, one thing is rertain, namely, that these openings have no other jse, but that of conveying outward the pus, which collects in the cavity, and the small bony .fragments, since, as soon as every atom of dead bone has passed out, they diminish, and, at length, are totally obliterated. (Weidmann De Necrosi Ostium, p. 36.) It is a remarkable circumstance, in the history of necrosis, that, in favourable instances of the disease, the inflexibility and firmness of the limb ire preserved, during the whole of the process, oy which the new bone is formed. Consequently, the new bone must have begun to grow, and have acquired firmness before the old bone sepa- rates, or is absorbed. Were this not the case the limb must become flexible and useless, the oment the dead bone is removed. Another consequence of the new bone being formed, be- fore the removal of the old one, is that the for- mer must surround and include the latter. For, since the lifeless portion of bone completely occupies the space between the two living ends, hese cannot be immediately connected by the new bony matter. The connexion can alone be completed by the new bone being deposited on the outside of the old one, from one end to the other, and attaching itself to the portions which still remain alive. The new bone must also be necessarily larger than the old one, because ex- ternally situated, and hence the affected limb, after the cure is complete, will always continue larger, clumsier, and less shapely than the other. The length of it, however, remains unaltered, because the old bone retains its attachment, while the rudiments of the new bone are lying on its outside, and connect the living ends of the old one, by an inflexible mass, equal in length to the portion which is destroyed. Thus we see, that, in the process, which na- ture follows in the formation of the new osseous shell, the old bone serves as a mould for the new one, and the first step of the process is to sur- round the old bone with an effusion of coagulat- ing lymph. (See Russell on Necrosis, p. 2—7.) When the sequestrum is thrown off’ slowly, the inflammation is moderate; but when it se- parates quickly, while the new7 bone is iri a soft ^tate, the detachment is always preceded by se- vere inflammatory symptoms, and followed by a temporary loss of the natural firmness of the limb. This premature separation of the seques- trum often occurs in necrosis of the lower jaw, and the chin consequently falls down on the neck. In certain cases, the sequestrum separates at each end from the living portions of the old bone, before the new osseous shell has acquired firm- ness, so that the limb feels as if it were broken in two places. (Russell.) Let us next consider the states and circum- stances of necrosis, in which the art of surgery may be advantageously exerted in the assistance of nature, and the means which may be em- ployed for this purpose. A common error of medical and surgical practitioners is always to impute the cure of every disease to whatever remedies happen to be em- ployed, and successes are too often boasted of, the merit of which belongs entirely to nature. It is, indeed, not very unfrequent to hear reme- dies panegyrically spoken of, which counteract the salutary efforts of nature, who, in this case, is obliged to overcome both the disease, and the irrational treatment, which is applied to it. As Weidmann observes, this erroneous mode of con sidering things has happened particularly often amongst surgeons who have had cases of ne- crosis under their care, all of whom boast of the cures which they have accomplished, although some employed absorbent earths, others, aro- matics ; some, spirituous applications; others, balmy remedies ; some, acids ; others, caustics; and some, armed with a wimble, made numerous perforations in the dead bone'; while many others rasped the part, or attacked it with the trepan, cutting forceps, the gouge and mallet, or even the actual cautery; and a certain number did nothing more, than apply dry lint. Nature, who was favourable to all, did her own work in silence, whatever were the remedies employed for her as- sistance, whether mild and inert; acrid and cor- rosive ; or hurtful and improper. We have already noticed, that a dead portion of bone separates from the living exactly in the same way, as gangrenous soft parts spontaneously drop oflj without the interference of art. The separation happens precisely at the points, to