367 DISLOCATION. cessus dentatus to the edge ot the foramen mag- num are torn, and, supposing the head to be forced from the left to the right, the left side oi the body of the vertebra is carried before its cor- responding articulating surface, while the right side falls behind its corresponding surface. Some- times the processus dentatus, whose ligaments are ruptured, quits the foramen formed for it by the transverse ligament and the anterior arch of the first vertebra, and presses on the medulla , oblongata. But, according to Boyer, the pro- » cessus dentatus may be displaced in two ways: 1 1st, It may be carried directly backwards, the transverse and other ligaments being broken. This mode of displacement Boyer considers as the most difficult and uncommon, as it can hardly take place, except from a fall from a great height :upon the back of the head, while the spine is bent forwards. (Traile dcs Mat. Chir. 1. 4, ]’. 109.) However, the accident may happen in another manner, as was the case in Mr. C. Bell’s in- stance, where the misfortune occurred from a all with the chin upon the curb-stone. (Surg. Ohs. Vul. 1, p. 150.) 'idly, In a violent rota- don, in which the face is carried sideways be- rond the proper limits, the lateral and accessory igaments of the processus dentatus may be stretched and twisted spirally round this process. The force operates entirely upon them, and not it all upon the transverse ligament. Now when he lateral and accessory ligaments of the pro- :essus dentatus have given way, and an effort to ncline the head to one side is kept up, one of he sides of the space, bounded by the transverse igament, may present itself near the point of the r processus dentatus, which may then pass below he transverse ligament without rupturing it. In children, where the processus dentatus is mt fully developed, and the ligaments are weaker han in the adult, a perpendicular impulse may reak the lateral and accessory ligaments, and hen force the processus dentatus under the trans- erse ligament, without rupturing this latter part; s Boyer conceives must have been the case ins he child, which J. L. Petit mentions as having • een instantaneously killed by being lifted up by he head. Lastly, it is asserted, that, when the transverse, iteral, and other ligaments are capable of making ery great resistance to force, which tends to . rpture them all, and to throw the processus entatus directly backwards, this process, if at .1 more slender than common, may be broken ear its base, and the lateral articulations between le two first vertebrae be instantly destroyed. Boi/er, Vol. cit. p. 110.) Patients can hardly be expected to survive ' ischief of this kind in so high a situation; when ie transverse ligament is broken, and the pro- :ssus dentatus is thrown directly backward painst the medulla oblongata, the effect must : instant death, as happened in the case lately corded by Mr. C. Bell. (Surg. Ola. Vat. 1, 150.) According to surgical writers, the causes hich may produce this formidable accident, e various: a fall on the head from a high pee; the fall of a heavy body against the back the neck ; a violent blow ; a forcible twist of e neck; tumbling ; standing upon the head ; the rash custom of lifting children up by the head, &e. Louis found that the first vertebra was dislocated from the second in the malefactors hanged at Lyons, at which place, the executioner used t» give a sudden twist to the body, at the moment of its suspension, and then bear with all his weight upon it. Under such circumstances, Boyer conceives that the processus dentatus would pass under the transverse ligament, without this ligament being ruptured. Dislocations of the cervical vertebrae are said not to be always fatal, as when they occur at the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth of these bones, and only one articular process is luxated. In these instances, the vertebral canal is not so much lessened as to compress the spinal marrow, and occasion immediate death. With regard to the prognosis and treatment of all luxations in which the processus dentatus is displaced, the reader need only hear, that such cases are immediately fatal. Mistaken notions have been entertained upon this point, in conse- quence of particular dislocations of the neck ha- ving been successfully treated. A mother brought her child to Desault, with its neck bent, and its chin turned towards the right shoulder. The accident had been a con- sequence of the head having been fixed on the ground, while the feet were up in the air. A surgeon happened to be with Desault at the time, and they agreed to make an attempt to reduce the luxation, and to apprise the mother, that though the child might be cured, there was a possibility of its perishing under their hands. Being permitted to do what they judged proper, they fixed the shoulders, and the head was gentlv raised, and gradually turned into its natural posi- tion. The mother was rewarded for her coura- geous resignation; the child could now move freely; the pain ceased, and a considerable swell- ing in the situation of the luxation alone re- mained, and it was dispersed by the application of emollient poultices. (Leveille, Nouvetlc Doc- s trine Chir. T. 2, p. 62.) Another alleged instance of the reduction of a dislocation of the neck is also recorded by Dr. Settin, in vol. I of Sehmucker’s Vermischte Chirurgische Schriften. However, both in this case, and that related of Desault, there can now be little, or no doubt, that the accident was not a dislocation of the dentatafrom the atlas, but only a luxation of one of the oblique processes of one of the cervical vertebrae lower down. Whenever the processus dentatus is suddenly displaced, or fractured, the effects on the medulla spinalis are inevitably fatal. For more information respecting dislocations of the vertebra*, consult T. E. Si Innidt, l)e Luxationg Nuch.(e, Hatler, Disp. Chir. 2, 351, Tub. 1747. S. T. Soemmering, Bemerkungeu iibtr Ferrenhuvg und I truck disPuchgralhs, 8 vo. Berlin, 1793. Boyer, Traite des Mat. Chir. T. 4, y. 100, $r. 8ro. Paris, 1814. A. E. Schupke, De Lvxatiorie Spontanea Atlantis et Epistrophei, 4to. Bernl. 1816. C. Bell, Surgical Obs. Vul. 1, p. 145, 149, <3fc. 8i'</. Land. 1816. IUSI.0CATI0NS OF THE CLAVXCI.E. These are much less common, than fractures, which are said to occur six times more frequently.