511 GANGLION. poultices. The tumor, when allowed to burst, generally does so at its apex. However, as The opening, is generally long in forming, and too small to allow the sloughy cellular substance to be discharged, it is always best, as soon as matter is known to exist in the tumor, to make a free opening with a lancet, and immediately afterwards to press out as much of the matter and sloughs, as can be pru- dently done This having been accomplished, md the rest of the sloughs pressed out, as soon ;s it is practicable, healthy pus will be secreted, md the part will granulate and heal. Until the suppuration becomes of the healthy kind, and the doughy substances are entirely discharged, an imollient linseed poultice is the best application; md when granulations begin to fill up the cavity, oilain lint, and a simple pledget, are the only dressings necessary. Where there is reason to suppose the gastric irgans to be in a disordered state, an emetic hould be given in the early part of the treatment, .nd afterwards small repeated doses of any of the nild purging salts- When an indolent hardness continues, after he inflammatory, and suppurative state of boils as been cured, the part should be rubbed with amphorated mercurial ointment. Besides the above acute boil, authors describe a chronic one, which is said frequently to occur, in subjects, who have suffered severely from the small-pox, measles, lues venerea, scrofula, and in constitutions, which have been injured by the use of mercury. The chronic boil is commonly situated upon the extremities, is of the same size as the acute one, has a hard base, is not attended with much pain, nor any considerable discoloration of the skin, until suppuration is far advanced, and the matter is seldom quite formed before three or four weeks. This, like the former, sometimes appears in a considerable number at a time. The discharge is always thinner, than good pus, and when the boil is large, and has been long in sup- purating, a great deal of sloughy cellular mem- brane must be cast off, before the sore will heal. The principal thing, requisite in the local treatment of all furunculous, and carhuncular tu- mors, is to make an early free opening into them, and to press out the matter and sloughs, employ- ing emollient poultices, till all the mortified parts are detached and removed, and afterwards simple dressings. (See Pearson's Pi inciples of Surgery. Richter, Anfungsgrundc drr Wnndurzn. B. 1. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T 1, p. 15. HicIn- land, Nosographic Chir. T. 1, p. 123, edit. 2.) G\ ANGLION, (yaJyXiov.) In surgery, a I" tumor on a tendon, or aponeurosis, A ganglion is an encysted, circumscribed, loveable swelling, commonly free from pain, lusing no alteration in the colour of the skin, ad formed upon tendons in different parts of le body, but, most frequently, upon the back f the hand, and over the wrist. A French entleman consulted me, who had one upon le upper part of his foot, which created a reat sensation of weakness in the motion of the >ot, and I have taken notice, that ganglions oc- ir particularly often just below the kneepan, in ausemaids, who are in the habit of kneeling a reat deal in order to scour rooms. A curious cample has been lately recorded, in which a gan- ion, situated exactly over the arteriaradialisand e arteria superficialis volae, was at first sup- ised to be an aneurism. (See Edinb. Med. and irz. Journ. for April, 1821.) These tumors, when compressed, seem to issess considerable elasticity. They often oc- r unpreceded by any accident; frequently, they e the consequence of bruises and violent sprains, aey seldom attain a considerable size, and ordi- fily are not painful, though every now and then ere are instances to the contrary. When <.ned, they are found to be filled with a viscid msparent fluid, resembling white-of-egg. If "y do not disappear of themselves, or are not red, while recent, by surgical means, they, in me cases, become so large, that they cause eat inconvenience, by obstructing the motion the part, and rendering it painful. Imcutient applications sometimes succeed in ting ganglions, and, in this country, friction with the oleum origani is a very common method. I have often seen such tumors very much less- ened by this plan of treatment, but seldom cured, and, no sooner lias the friction been dis- continued, than tire fluid in the cyst has in ge- neral accumulated again. Compression is usually more effectual, than discutient linimehts. Persons with ganglions have been recommended to rub them strongly with their thumb, several times a day. After this has been repeated very often, the tumor has sometimes disappeared. But, the best method is to make continual pressure on gan- glions, by means of a piece of sheet-lead, hound upon the part with a bandage. 'I here is no ob- jection, however, to using once, or twice a day, in conjunction with this treatment, frictions with the oleum origani, or camphorated mercurial ointment, provided these measures together do not seem likely to make the tumor inflame, an event, which should always be carefully avoided. Ganglions, when irritated too much, have been known to become most malignant fungous dis- eases. Setons have been recommended to he intro- duced through ganglions, with a view of curing them. This method, however, is not an eligible one; for, it is by no means free from danger, as the records of surgery fully prove. Cancerous diseases, and even a malignant fatal fungus, {Med. Join. Vol. 5.) have arisen from the irri- tation of a scion passed through a ganglion. Frequently, when a ganglion inflames, and ulcerates, the cyst throws out a fungus, which is of a very malignant nature. Hence, the prac- titioner should avoid making an opening into the