DISLOCATION. 3/o by ligatures attached to the wrist, placing the arm in an erect position. In this way, lie drew up the patient, till his whole body was suspended; but, that too much force might not be sustained by the wrist, Mr. White at the same time directed two other persons to support the arm above the elbow. He now used to try with his hands to con- duct the arm into its place, if the reduction had not already happened, as was sometimes the case. Occasionally, a snap might be heard, as soon as the patient was drawn up; but, the re- duction could not be completed, till he was let down again, and a trial made with the heel in the I arm-pit. When no iron ring was at hand, Mr. ! White used to have the patient raised from the . ground by three or four men, who stood upon a table. (Cases in Surgery, p. 95.) 2. Oldness of the Dislocation. This is a second impediment to reduction, stiil more difficult to surmount, than the fore- ; going. The head of the bone, which has lodged a long while in its accidental situation, contracts adhesions to it. The surrounding cellular sub- stance becomes condensed, and forms, as it were, I . a new capsule, which resists reduction, and which, • when such reduction cannot be accomplished, • supplies, in a certain degree, the office of the original joint, by allowing a considerable degree Bo of motion. In such cases, the common advice is, that no • attempt at reduction should be made, as it would | be useless in regard to the dislocation, and might be injurious to the patient, from the excessive stretching of parts. This was for some time the 1 doctrine of Desault; but, in his latter years, ex- perience led him to be bolder. Complete success, obtained in dislocations, which had existed from fifteen to twenty days, ' ncouraged him to attempt reduction at the end of thirty, and thirty-five days, and, in the two years preceding his death, he succeeded, three or four times, in reducing dislocations which had •existed two months and a half, and even three nonths, both when the head of the bone was •ituated at the lower, and at the internal part of .he scapula. However violent or protracted the extension nay have been, none of the terrible consequences vith which authors threaten us, ever occurred. )ne accident, which it was difficult to foresee, md of which we shall speak presently, only took dace in two instances. in these cases, it is necessary, before making he extension, to move the bone about extensively n all directions, for the purpose of first breaking ts adhesions, lacerating the condensed cellular ubstance, which forms an accidental capsule, and f producing, as it were, a second dislocation, in >rdcr to remove the first Extension is then to ■e made in the ordinary way, but with an ad- iitional number of assistants. The first attempts frequently fail, and the dis- || ocatcd bead of the bone continues unmoved, "^withstanding the most violent cllbrts. In bis case, after leaving offthe extension, the arm 1 to, ^ a6am moved about most extensively. R c humerus is to lie carried upward, downward, I r°r.r i > am' backward. Force the resistances. ■ ■ H <' ll'c arm describe a large segment of a circle, ;l 'he place where it is situated^ Let it be once more rotated on its axis; then let the extension be repeated, and directed in every way. Thus, the head of the bone will first be disengaged by the free motion, and afterwards reduced. In these eases, when the dislocation, in con- sequence of being very old, presents great ob- stacles to reduction, even though the attempts made for this purpose should fail, they are not entirely useless. By forcing the head of the bone to approach the glenoid cavity, and even placing it before the cavity, and making it form new adhesions, after the destruction of the old ones, the motions of the arm are rendered freer. Indeed, they are always the less obstructed, the nearer the bead of the bone is to its natural situation. Notwithstanding the encouragement, given by Desault, to making attempts to reduce old dislocations of the humerus, experience proves, that when the bone lias been out of its place more than a month, success is rarely obtained. And, as for the danger, which may arise from long protracted immoderate force, a case, which, I have elsewhere cited, proves, that caution is here a virtue, which cannot be too highly commended. (See First Lines of Surgery, Vol. 2, p. 465.) 3. Contractions of the Muscles. A third impediment to the reduction of every kind of dislocation, is the power of the muscles, which is augmented beyond the natural degree, in consequence of their being on the stretch. Sometimes, this power is so considerable, that it renders the head of the bone immoveable, though the most violent efforts are made. Here the means to be adopted are such as weaken the patient, bleeding, the warm bath, nauseating doses of tartarized antimony, as advised by Loder, Mr. A. Cooper, ckc.; opium, &c. Should the patient happen to be intoxicated at the time of his being first seen by the surgeon, the op- portunity would be very favourable to reduction, as the muscles would then be capable of less resistance. Extension unremittingly, but not violently, continued for a length of time, will ultimately fatigue the resisting muscles, and overcome them with more safety and efficacy, than could be accomplished by any sudden ex- ertion of force. In all cases of difficulty, pulleys should be preferred. The swelling about the joint, brought on by the accident, usually disappears without trouble. Another consequence, which seldom occurs in practice, but which Desault saw twice, is a con- siderable emphysema, suddenly originating at the time of reduction. In the middle of such violent extension, as the long standing of the dislocation requires, a tumor suddenly makes its appearance under the great pectoral muscle. Rapidly in- creasing, it spreads towards the arm pit, the whole extent of which it soon occupies. It reaches backward, and, in a few minutes, some- times becomes as large as a child’s head. A practitioner, unacquainted with this accident, might take it for an aneurism, occasioned by the sudden rupture of I lie axillary artery, by the violent extension. But, if attention be paid to the elasticity of the tumor, its fluctuation, the situation where it first appears, commonly under the great pectoral muscle, and not in the axilla ; the continuance of the pulse; and the unchanged colour of the skin; the case may easily be dis-