DISEASE. 1139 VENEREAL I !tng affected by it. He conceives also, that the irts of generation were those first affected; for, the disease had taken place on any other part, would not have gone further, than the person in Itom it first arose, t.'n the contrary, if the dis- . se, in the first instance of its formation, be pre- med to have attacked the parts of generation, ,ere the only natural connexion takes place, tween one human being and another, except :at between the mother and child, it was in the ost favourable situation for being propagated; d Mr Hunter infers, also, that the first effects the disease must have been local, in consen. tence of the fact, now well established, that me of the constitutional effects are com- unieable to other persons, that is to say, it feclious. Thus, the numberless cases of the venereal sease, afflicting generation after generation, d observable in all the known parts of the ■>rld, are supposed to be originally derived from e amours of soma unfortunate individual, in 10m the poison was first formed, from causes yond the reach of human investigation. But, at any statement of this kind is more valuable ;an unsupported conjecture, is a proposition to ffch my mind is not prepared to assent, parti- larly when it is considered, that sores on the ■ nitals, giving rise to such constitutional sym- c jms as puzzle the most discerning practitioners the present enlightened days of medical sci- cce, are often of a very diversified character, so hardly to admit of reference to one common _gin. And, as I have already hinted, every adern speculation, about the first origin of the it temper, promises but little instruction or suc- <ss, because the question relates to a disease, diagnosis of which is still very unsettled, and ; complete definition of which has hitherto filed men of the greatest genius and experi- ce. According to Mr. Hunter, the venereal poison commonly in the form of pus, or some other iretion. In most cases, it excites an inflam- ition, which (to use the same author’s lan- age), is attended with a specific mode of action, Fereiit from all other actions attending inflam- ition, and accounting for the specific quality in ; matter. The formation of matter, though a general, is t a constant attendant on this disease; for in- mmation, produced by the venereal poison, r netimes does not terminate in suppuration. But, Mr. Hunter’s sentiments are correct, it is the ;lter produced, whether with or without infiam- ition, which alone contains the poison. Hence lerson, having the venereal irritation in any i m, not attended with a discharge, cannot com- micate the disease to another. In proof of s doctrine, he states, that though married men en contract the disease, and continue to co- bit with their wives, even for weeks, yet, in the aole of his practice, he never once found, that i complaint was communicated under such cumstances, except when connexion had been ntinued after the appearance of the discharge. The late Mr. Hey, of Leeds, however, gave as his opinion, that a man might communicate 3s venerea, after all the symptoms of the dis- sc had been removed, and he was apparently in rfect health. (See Med, Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 547.) This sentiment is not only repug- nant to the authority of Mr. Hunter, but to common observation and all sound reasoning. The very case, which Mr. Hey adduced, in proof of the occurrence, is decidedly inadequate to the intended purpose, in consequence of the impos- sibility of trusting to tiie accounts which patients, under circumstances involving their honour, are apt to give of themselves. In the case, recited bv Mr. Hey, the gentleman might have had some venereal affection at the period of, or sub- sequently to, his marriage; and yet his feelings, and a sense of the disgrace of infecting a virtu- ous woman, might compel him to conceal the real truth from his surgeon. Again, it is to be remembered, that the lady herself might have deviated from the path of chastity, and exposed herself to infection ; and, if she had done so, she would neither have informed her husband, nor Mr. Hey. I confess, that it is at all times painful to suspect the veracity ofindividuals, whose situa- tions in life are respectable; but, whenever an occurrence takes place, decidedly contrary to the evidence of general experience, every possibility is to be recollected, in order to avoid the neces- sity of admitting doctrines not founded upon truth. Mr. Hey, with much more reason, joins in the belief of the possibility of the venereal disease being communicated to the foetus in utero, though in what manner the infection is transmitted is a question not yet elucidated. An universal de- squamation of the cuticle ; a hoarse squeaking voice; copper-coloured blotches; a scaly erup- tion upon the chin ; and an unnatural redness of the anus; are the common symptoms which Mr. Hey sets down as proofs of syphilis in very young infants. As these complaints yield to small doses of the suhmuriate of mercury, or the hydrargyrus cum creta, and either the nurse or parent has had some venereal or syphiloid dis- ease at no very distant period, the cases are often regarded as decided specimens of one of these disorders. The venereal poison would appear to lie very irregular in its effects, different persons being variously affected by it; and hence, probably, one cause of a great deal of the uncertainty, yet prevailing about its distinguishing characters. Thus, as Mr. Hunter mentions, two men some- times have connexion with the same woman; both catch the disease; but one may have very severe, the other exceedingly mild, symptoms. He knew of an instance, in which one man gave the disease to different wo- men, some of whom had it with great severity, while the others suffered but slightly. On the same point, I find an interesting statement, made by Dr. Hennen, in his Report of Ob- servations on Syphilis in the Military Hospitals in Scotland:—“We have bad (says he) fre- quent opportunities of remarking two or more sores, of different kinds, existing at the same time: an irregularly-shaped diffused sore; an elevated sore, covered with a light coloured slough, as if a bit of sbarnoy leather had been stuck on by some tenacious substance; a groove, or streak along the glans, as if made by a scra- ping instrument, filled with purulent matter; and the true and perfect chancre, according to Mr. Hunter’s definition ; or the true syphilitic ulcer, 4 D 2 9