amaurosis. Sometimes, in the early stage of amaurosis, all objects appear quite distorted, bent, shortened, and, in rarer instances, inverted. (Visus de- jiguratns; Metamorphosia.) Thus the flame of a candle appears very long, but all awry. This is constantly an unfavourable omen, as the cause of it lies in the brain itself. Imperfect amaurosis is sometimes attended with considerable shortsightedness (Myopia); and sometimes with the opposite affection (Pres- byapia); an infallible proof that essential changes have happened either in the transparent media or in the muscles of the eye. Many patients, when first attacked with amau- rosis, everywhere testify a partiality to a great quantity of light, employing several candles at night, and sitting in the day-time with their backs against a sunshiny window, in order to let what- ever they are reading have a very strong light upon it. This symptomatic appearance of inci- pient amaurosis is termed by Beer, Lichthunger. Amaurosis may either take place in an instant, even so as to be attended with entire blindness; or it may come, on quickly, that is, it may be complete in a few days or weeks; or, lastly, what is most frequently the case, it may be produced gradually, and several years elapse before it attains its utmost degree; circumstances of great mo- ment in the diagnosis and treatment. The type, which the disease assumes in its course and development, is also subject to great variety, and claims the utmost attention; for, amaurosis may either be permanent, or tem- porary. The gutta serena is sometimes an in- termittent disorder, making its appearance at re- gular or irregular intervals. In certain examples, as Richter remarks, the disease prevails at par- ticular times, commonly all day, till a certain hour; or from one day till the next; or at a stated time every month. The attacks of the eomplaint sometimes take place at indeterminate periods. In particular cases, another morbid affection is associated with the impairment of sight. Richter mentions a man, who became blind at twelve o’clock in the day, when the upper eye-lid used also to hang down, in conse- quence of being affected with paralysis. The attack always lasted twenty-four hours. On the following day, at twelve o’clock, the sight used to return, and the patient then suddenly regained the power of raising the upper eye-lid. He would continue thus able to see for the space of the next twenty-four hours. Whenever he took bark, the disease was regularly doubled; that is to say, the man then alternately remained blind forty-eight hours, and recovered the power of seeing for only twenty-four. In another pa- tient, cited by this experienced surgical writer, the aqueous humour, during the blindness, always became discoloured, whitish, and turbid ; but its transparency regularly returned on the cessation of the attack. According to Richter, the pe- riodical amaurosis commonly depends upon irri- tation affecting the digestive organs, the stimulus of worms, or irregularity in the menstrual dis- charge. Sometimes, it is plainly a symptom of a confirmed ague, the patient being attacked with an ordinary intermittent, and blind during each paroxysm, but always regaining his sight as soon as each fit is over. (See Richter's Anjangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 3, Kap. 14.) Beer believes, how- ever, that the periodical gutta serena is chiefly observed in chlorotic, hemorrhoidal, hysterical, and hypochondriacal subjects. Uayblindness (Ccecitas Diurna; Nyctalopia;) and nightblind~ ness (Coccitas Crcpuscularis; Hemeralopia;) are nothing more than cases of periodical amau- rosis. But sometimes the frequently recurring form of the disease confines itself to no deter- minate type; and, on account of its irregularity, it is then termed by Beer, Amaurosis Vuga, which he says is often of spasmodic origin, and therefore principally met with in persons liable to hysteria, hypochondriasis, convulsions, or epilepsy. Pe- riodical amaurosis, after remaining uncured a certain time, often becomes permanent. (Beer, Lehre, fyc. B. 2, p. 429.) In amaurosis in general, but particularly when no material knowledge can be acquired of causes, and the treatment must of necessity be conducted on empirical principles, it is of the highest im- portance to recollect what Richter has pointed out, namely, that amaurosis sometimes com- mences with several symptoms, which seem to be- tray an increase of sensibility in the eye, or some irritation affecting this organ. In moderately light places, the patient can discern things very well; but, in a great light, he is not able to see at all. The eye is sometimes so sensible, that a strong light will make it weep and become pain- ful. Patients of this description ought always to wear a shade, however bad their sight may be. Sometimes the gutta serena originates with symptoms of weakness and diminished irritability. The sight is cloudy, and the patient finds that he can see better in a light than a dark situation. He feels as if some dirt, or dust, were upon his eyes, and is in the habit of frequently wiping them. His power of vision is greater after meals than at the time of fasting. His sight is always, for a short time, plainer, after the external use of tonic remedies, such as hartshorn, cold water, &c. Richter informs us of a person, who was nearly quite blind, but was constantly able to see very well, for the space ,gf an hour, after drinking champagne wine. He also mentions a woman entirely bereft of sight, who was in the habit of having it restored again, for half an hour, whenever she walked a quick pace up and down her garden. This author likewise acquaints us with the case of a lady, who had been blind for years; but, experienced a short recovery of her sight, on having a tooth extracted. (Anjangsgr. £c. B. 3. Kap. 14.) When the disorder is accompanied with a diminished sensibility in the eye in general, Pro- fessor Beer joins Richter, with respect to the tem- porary improvement of the sight after a nourish- ing meal, or drinking spirituous liquors ; or when the patient’s mind is elated with joy, or anger, though such melioration of sight, it is true, is but of very short duration. On the other hand, it may be remarked, that every thing, which tends to depress the passions and spirits, augments the imperfection of sight. Where marks of increased sensibility prevail, the abovementioned circumstances exercise a transient disadvantageous operation ; the patient carefully retires from every strong light, and frequently shelters his eye with his hand. cSrc. ( /Wire von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 430.) Amaurosis either presents itself as * genuine