G<)6 INFLAMMATION. the inside of the alveolary process, but towards the cheek. When inflammation attacks the cel- lular substance, surrounding the rectum, near the anus, the affection usually extends itself to the skin of the buttock, leaving the intestine perfectly sound, though in contact with the inflamed part. {Hunter.) We may observe the influence of this law in the diseases of the lachrymal sac and duct, in those of the frontal sinus, and antrum, and, particu- larly, in gun-shot wounds. Suppose a ball were to pass into the thigh, to within an inch of the opposite side of the limb, we should not find, that inflammation would be excited along the track of the ball, but, on the side next the skin which had not been hurt. If a ball were to pass quite through a limb, and carry into the wound a. piece of cloth, which lodged in the middle, equidistant from the two orifices, the skin, immediately over the extraneous body, would inflame, if the pas- sage of the ball were superficial.—{Hunter.) Mr. Hunter compared this law with the principle, by which vegetables approach the surface of the earth; but, the solution of it was too arduous even for his strong genius and penetration. We see three very remarkable effects follow the prevalence of inflammation ; viz. adhesions of parts of the body to each other; the forma- tion of pus, or suppuration ; and ulceration, a process, in which the lymphatics are more con- cerned, than the blood-vessels. Hence, Mr. Hunter termed the different stages of inflam- mation, the adhesive, the suppurative, and the ulcerative. All parts of the body are not equally liable to each of the preceding consequences. (.Hun- ter.) In the cellular membrane, and in the circum- scribed cavities, the adhesive stage takes place more readily, than the others; suppuration may be said to follow next in order of frequency; and lastly ulceration. In internal canals, on the inner surfaces of the eye-lids, nose, mouth, and trachea, in the air- cells of the,lungs, in the oesophagus, stomach, intestines, pelvis of the kidney, ureters, bladder, urethra, and in afl the ducts and outlets of the organs of secretion, being what are termed mu- cous membranes, the suppurative inflammation comes on more readily, than either the adhesive, or the ulcerative stage. Adhesions, which ori- ginate from the slightest degree of inflammation in other situations and structures, can only be produced by a violent kind in the above men- tioned parts. Ulceration is more frequently met with upon mucous surfaces, than adhesions. {Hunter.) The cellular membrane appears to be much more susceptible of the adhesive in- flammation, than the adipose, and much more readily passes into the suppurative. {Hunter.) Thus we see the cellular substance, connecting the muscles together, and the adipose membrane to the muscles, inflaming, suppurating, and the matter separating the muscles from their lateral connexions, and even the fat from the muscles, while the latter substance and the skin are only highly inflamed. {Hunter.) But, it must be allowed, that in situations where fat abounds we very frequently meet with abscesses. This is so much the case, that fat has been accounted a more frequent nidus for collections of matter, than the cellular substance. {Bromjield.) Ab- scesses are particularly liable to form in the neighbourhood of the anus, mamma, &c. With respect to the fat being highly inflamed, however, the expression is not strictly true. Fat has no vessels, principle of life, nor action of its own ; consequently, we cannot suppose that it can itself either inflame, or suppurate. We know, that it is itself a secretion, and when an abscess forms in it, we understand, that the mode of action in the vessels, naturally destined to deposit fat, has been altered to that adapted to the formation of pus. When therefore the fat is said to be in- flamed, it is only meant, that the membranous cells, in which it is contained, and by which it is secreted, are thus affected. The deeply-situated parts of the body, more especially the vital ones, very readily admit of the adhesive stage of inflammation. The cir- cumstance of deeply-seated parts not so readilv taking on the suppurative stage of inflammation, as the superficial ones do, is strikingly illustrated in cases of extraneous bodies, which, if deeply lodged, only produce the adhesive inflammation. By this process a cyst is formed, in which they lie without much inconvenience, and they may even gradually change their situation, without disturbing the parts, through which they pass. But, no sooner do these same bodies approach the skin, than abscesses immediately arise. {Hunter.) All inflammations, attended with disease, par- take of some specific quality, from which simple inflammation is entirely free. When the con- stitution allows the true adhesive and suppurative stages to occur, it is to be regarded as the most healthy. Were it in an opposite state, we should see the very same irritation excite some other kind of inflammation, such as the erysipelatous, scrophulous, &c. (Hunter.) In specific inflammations, the position, struc- ture, and distance of the part affected from the source of the circulation, as well as from the sur- face of the body, seem also to have as much in- fluence as in cases of common inflammation. Upon this point, 1 feel conscious of being a little at variance with what Mr. Hunter has stated; but, the undecided manner in which he expresses himself, not less than the following reflections, encourages me not to desert my own ideas. e see, that venereal eruptions sooner make their appearance upon the chest and face, than upon the extremities. No organized part can be deemed exempt from the attack of common in- flammation ; many appear to be totally insuscep- tible of the venereal. We know, that scrophu- lous diseases of the superior extremities take a more favourable course, require amputation less frequently, and get well oftener than when si- tuated in the inferior limbs. {Ford.) The ve- nereal disease makes more rapid advances in the skin and throat, than in the bones and tendons; we often see it producing a specific inflammation, and an enlargement of the superficial parts of the tibia, ulna, clavicle, cranium, &c. while other bones, covered by a considerable quantity of flesh, are very rarely affected. Gouty inflam- mation is prone to invade the small joints; rheumatic, the large. I