HERNIA. 636 having made their way, by laceration, through the tunica vaginalis, Irom the ordinary hernial sac ol a bubonocele. The old surgeons, in- deed, frequently cite this instance, in proof of their doctrine, that some hernite were attended with a laceration of the peritonaeum. (See Sharp's Inquiry.) From the term congenital, we might suppose, that this hernia always existed at the time of birth. The protrusion, however, seldom occurs till alter this period, on the operation of the usual exciting causes of herniae in general. It does not commonly happen till some months after birth; and, in certain instances, not till a late period. Mr. Hey relates a case, in which a hernia congenita was first formed in a young man, aged sixteen, whose right testis had, a little while before the attack of the disease, descended into the scrotum. In the generality of cases which actually take place when the testicle de- scends into the scrotum before birth, the event may be referred to the testicle having c. ntracted an adhesion to a piece of intestine, or omen- tum, in its passage to the ring. In an in- fant, whicli died a few hours after birth, Wris- berg found one testicle, which had riot passed the ring, adhering, by means of a few slender filaments, to the omentum, just above this aperture. The appearance of a hernia in very early in- fancy', Mr. Pott observes, will always make it probable that it is of this kind; but, he was not correct in asserting, that in an adult, there is no reason for supposing his rupture to be of this sort, but his having been afflicted with it from his infancy; and that there is no external mark, or character, whereby it can be certainly distin- guished from one contained in a common hernial sac. This statement is erroneous, inasmuch as the hernia congenita is attended with an impos- sibility of feeling the testis, which part in the common scrotal hernia is always distinguishable under the fundus of the hernial sac. The hernia congenita, when returnable, “ ought, like ail other kinds of ruptures, to be reduced, and con- stantly kept up by a proper bandage; and when attended with symptoms of stricture, it requires the same chirurgic assistance as the common hernia ” Mr. Pott notices, that ‘‘ in very young chil- dren, a piece of intestine, or omentum, may get pretty low down in the sac, while the testicle is still in the groin, or even within the abdomen. In this case, the application of a truss would be highly improper; for, in the latter, it might pre- vent the descent of the testicle from the belly into the scrotum ; in the former, it must neces- sarily bruise and injure it, give a great deal of unnecessary pain, and can prove of no real use. Such bandage, therefore, ought never to be ap- plied on a rupture in an infant, unless the testicle can be fairly felt in the scrotum, after the gut or caul is replaced ; and when it can be so felt, a truss can never be put on too soon.” Many additional observations on the foregoing topic are contained in the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, for which reason I do not here expatiate upon it. Mr. Pott explains, that an old rupture, originally congenital, is subject to a stricture made by the sac itself, as well as to that produced by the abdominal ring, or, as might have been added, to that caused by the inner opening of the inguinal canal. The fact he noticed several times, both in the dead and in the living. “ I have seen (says he) such stricture made by the sac of one of these herniae, as produced all those bad symptoms which render the operation necessary : and I have met with two different strictures, at near an inch distance from each other, in the body of a dead boy, about fourteen, one of which begirt the intestine so tight, that I could not disengage it without dividing the sac. “ In this kind of hernia I have also more fre- quently found connexions and adhesions of the parts to each other, than in the common one; but there is one kind of connexion sometimes met with in the congenital hernia, which can never be found in that which is a common her- nial sac, and which may require all the dexterity of an operator to set free; I mean that of the intestine with the testicle. “ When a common hernial sac lias been laid open, and the intestine and omentum have been replaced, there can be nothing left in it which can require particular regard from the surgeon ; but by the division of the sac of a congenital hernia, the testicle is laid bare, and after the parts composing the hernia have been reduced, will require great regard and tenderness, in all the future dressings, as it is a part very irritable and very susceptible of pain, inflammation, &c. “ If a large quantity of fluid should be col- lected in the sac of a congenital hernia, and, bv adhesions and connexions of the parts within, the entrance into it from the abdomen should be totally closed, (a case which I have twice seen) the tightness of the tumor, the difficulty of di- stinguishing the testicle, and the fluctuation of the fluid, may occasion it to be mistaken for a common hydrocele; and if without attending to other circumstances, but trusting merely to the feel and look of the scrotum, a puncture be hastily made, it may create a great deal of trou- ble, and possibly do fatal mischief. “ By what has fallen within my observation, I am inclined to believe that the sac of a con- genital hernia is very seldom, if ever, distended to the degree which a common hernial sac often is: it also, from being less dilated, and rather more confined by the upper part of the spermatic process, generally preserves a pyriform kind of figure, and, for the same reason, is also gene- rally thinner, and will therefore require more attention and dexterity in an operator when he is to open it. To which, I believe, I may add, that common ruptures, or those in a common sac, are generally gradually formed, that is, they are first inguinal, and by degrees become scrotal; but the congenital are seldom, if ever, remem- bered by the patient to have been in the groin only.” (Pott on Ruptures, Vol.2.) The sac of a congenital hernia, especially when the case is strangulated, is every where equally tense, (Hcssclbach, p. 36) and below it the testis cannot be felt. The reader must not conclude, however, from the above .account, that every rupture in children is congenital. Mr. Lawrence has related a case of strangulated bubonocele, which took place in an infant only fourteen months old. {P. 65, Edit, ff.)