202 A OUT A. pass entirely by the anus, although, for four years, they had been voided only through the wound. (Lawrence, p. 201), 210.) In cases of mortified hernia, the wound some- times closes, except a small fistulous opening, which discharges a thin fluid, and cannot be healed. Mr. Lawrence has related, in his ex- cellent treatise on hernia, a case, in which the feces came from the wound some time after ati operation, although the bowel did not appear gangrenous when this proceeding was adopted. (P. 211.) In the appendix to this work, the author adds some further account of the case of artificial anus, which he has related. (P. 208.) The man is sixty years of age, and appears to be healthy, active, and even younger than he really is. He had had a scrotal hernia, which ended in mortifi- cation, and involved the testicle of the same side, and a large portion of the integuments, in the destruction. It is now nearly seventeen years since this event, and the feces have, during all this time, been discharged from the groin. He has never made use of a truss, nor taken any step, except that of always keeping a quantity of tow in his breeches. The prolapsed portion of intestine varies in length and size at different times. It was four inches long when Mr. Lawrence saw it, and the basis, which is the largest part, measured nearly six inches in circumference. The prolapsus never recedes entirely, and it has occasionally protruded to the length of eight or ten inches, being as large as the forearm, and emitting blood. This oc- currence is painful, and only comes on when the bowels are out of order. Warm fomentations, and a recumbent position, afford relief, and ac- complish a reduction of the bowel. The projecting part is of an uniform red co- lour, similar to that of florid and healthy granu- lations. The surface, although, wrinkled and ir- regular, is smooth, and lubricated by a mucous secretion. It feels firm and fleshy, and- can be squeezed and handled, without exciting pain. The man has not the least power of retaining his stools. When these are fluid, they come away repeatedly in the course of the day, and with considerable force. When of a firmer consistence, there is only one stool every one or two days, and the evacuation requires much straining. Such feces are not broader than the little finger. When the patient is purged, the food is often voided very little changed. This is particularly the case with cucumber. In this state, he is always very weak. Ale is sometimes discharged five minutes after taken, being scarcely at all altered. The bowels are strongly affected by slight doses of purga- tives. Consult Sabatier, in Mem. de l'Acad, de Chi- nirgie, t. 5. 4fo. and in Medccinc Operatairc, t. 2. L’Encyclopedic Mdthodique, Purlic Chirurg. Richter’s Anfangszr. der Wumlarzn. Band 5. J. II. Tieffenbach, Vulnerumin imtestinis (ethalitas occasionc casus rarissimi, quo colon vulneratuTn, in- versa at per 14 amws ex ubdomine prop end ens ex~ hibelur; Halleri Disp. Chir. 5. 61. Parisian Chirurgical Journal, v. 1. (Envres Chirurg. deDe- sault pur Bichat, i. 2. p. 352, Xc. Schmuckcr’s Chirurgischc Schriftcv, vol. 2. Laurence’s Trea- tise on Hernia. Calliscn’s Sijstema Chirnrgiec liodiernce, l. 2. p. 710, die. Travers, Inquiry into the Process of Nature in repairing Injuries if the Intestines, chap. 8. 8vo. Loud. 1812. Scarpa suit’ Ernie Memvrie Anatomico-Chirurgiche, jol, Milano, 1809. Anzeige einer von dem H. Pro- fessor Dupuytren erfundenen, und mil dein eliick- Lichsltn Erfolge ausgefuhrten Operaiionsueise zur Heilung des Anus Artijicialis, ntbst Bemerkungen von Franz Rcisinger; Augsburg, 1817- Jiennen’s Military Surgery, p. 407, £p‘. ed. 2. 8c n. Ed ink. 1820. Three cases from gunshot mounds; the cure effected by aiding nature with the exhibition of occasional laxatives and clysters. All irritating plans were avoided. Scarpa represents the arti- ficial ani, which follow wounds, us far more diffi- cult of cure, than those, which are the consequence cf hernia, with mortification; yet 1 have known many of the first description of cases cured. AORTA. Aneurisms of this vessel have al- ready been treated of: but there are a few other particulars, relating to this important artery, which seem to merit notice in a dictionary of surgery. WOUND OF THE AORTA NOT ALWAYS FOLLOWED BY INSTANTANEOUS DEATH. A case, exemplifying this fact, was some time ago recorded by M. Pelletan. In the month of May, 1802, a young military man, of middling strength, applied at the Hotel-Dieu. In a duel, he had been run through with a foil, which pene- trated above the right nipple, and came out at the left loin. The most alarming symptoms were apprehended; but several days elapsed with- out any serious complaints taking place. The patient was bled twice, and kept on a verv low regimen. Every thing went on quietly for a fortnight. He now complained of severe pains in his loins, and he was relieved by the warm bath. He seemed to be recovering, got up, and went to walk in the garden allotted for the sick; but the pain in his loins quickly returned, at- tended with difficulty of breathing, constipation, and wakefulness. He now became very impatient, and out of temper with the surgeons for not re- lieving him. On the 15th of July, two months after the accident, a deformity of the spine was remarked, about the eighth dorsal vertebra. The patient grew rapidly worse, and died in the utmost agony, saying that he felt suffocated, and tearing off his shirt, that his chest might be free from the pressure of all kinds of clothing. On the body being opened, the right side of the chest was found full of blood, coagulated in various degrees, and an opening, the diameter of which was equal to that of a writing pen, was de- tected in the aorta above the crura of the dia- phragm. All the adjacent cellular substance was injected with blood, and three of the dorsal ver- tebrae were found carious. No mark of injury was perceptible in any of the thoracic or abdomi- nal viscera. (See Pcllcian’s Clinique Chirttrgi- calc, t. 1. p. 92—94.) THICKENING AND CONSTRICTION OF TIIF. AORTA. Meckel met with two cases, in which the aorta was thickened and considerably constricted, just below its arcli; yet, in botli subjects, there was every reason to believe, that the abdominal viscera