55 AMPUTATION nut particular injury of the soft parts, is one of tlie most dangerous kinds of wounds that can oc- cur.” (See Guthrie on Gunshot Won nth, />. 190.) In compound fractures, as Mr. Pott has cor- rectly pointed out, there are three points of time when amputation may be proper. The first of these is immediately, or as soon as possible after the receipt of the injury. The second is, when the bones continue for a great length of time without any disposition to unite, and the dis- charge from the wound has been so long, and is so large, that the patient's strength fails, and general symptoms foreboding dissolution come on. The third is, when a mortification has taken such complete possession of the soft parts of the inferior portion of the limb, quite down to the bone, that upon the separation of such parts, the bone or bones shall be left bare in the interspace. The first and second of these are matters of very serious consideration. The third hardly requires any. When a compound fracture is caused by the passage of a very heavy body over a limb ; such, for instance, as the broad wheel of a waggon or loaded cart, or by the fall of a very ponderous body on it, or by a cannon shot, or by any other means so violent as to break the bones into many fragments, and so to tear, bruise, and wound the soft parts, that there shall be good reason to fear, that there will not be vessels sufficient to carry on the circulation with the parts below the fracture, it becomes, as Mr. Pott observes, a matter of the most serious consideration, whether an attempt to save such a limb will not occasion loss of life. This consideration must be before any degree of inflammation has seized the part, and therefore must be immediately after the ac- cident. When inflammation, tension, and a dis- position to gangrene in the limb have arisen, the period is highly disadvantageous for operating, and the patient s chances of being saved by am- putation, under these circumstances, are much smaller than before the changes here spoken of had taken place. At the same time, there are certain examples of mortification from external causes, where, as far as one can judge from the results of later experience than that of Mr. Pott, the surgeon should not defer amputation, even though the disorder be yet in a spreading state, attended with considerable swelling and tension reaching far up the limb. This is a subject, how- ever, which will require more explanation here- after. (See what is presently said on Mortifica- tion.) Nor are tho*cases, to which reference is made, meant to affect the general truth of the observation, delivered by the most experienced surgeons of every age, that when a limb is ex- tensively swelled and inflamed, with a part of it either in a state of spreading mortification, or ready to become gangrenous, the period is so unfavourable for amputation, that very few pa- tients, so circumstanced, ever recover after the operation. Nor is it meant to be insinuated, that, in the very cases which form exceptions to the general rule of not amputating before' the tendency to gangrene has ceased, the patient *mght not have had an infinitely better chance of his life, had the operation been done immediately tdter the first receipt of the injury, before any dis- position to gangrene had had time to be produced. I he necessity of immediate or very early de- cision, in this case, makes this a very delicate part of practice; for, however pressing the case may seem to the surgeon, it will not, in general, appear in the same light to the patient, to the relations, or to bystanders. They will be in- clin d to regard the proposition as arising from ignorance, or an inclination to save trouble, or a desire to operate; and it will often require more firmness on the part of the practitioner, and more resignation and confidence on the part of the patient, than is generally met with, to submit to such a severe operation, in such a seeming hurry, and upon so little apparent deliberation; and yet it often happens, that the suffering this point of time to pass, decides the patient’s fate. This necessity of early decision arises from the quick tendency to mortification, which ensues in the injured limb, and too often ends in the patient’s death. That this is no exaggeration, says Pott, melancholy and frequent experience evinces, even in those whose constitutions, previous to the ac- cident, were in good order; but much more in those, who have been heated by violent exercise or labour, or liquor, or who have led very de- bauched and intemperate lives, or who have habits naturally inflammable and irritable. This is often the case when the fracture happens to the middle part of the bones, but is much more likely to happen when any of the large joints are con- cerned. In many of these cases, a determination for or against amputation, is really a determina- tion for or against the patient’s existence. That it would have been impossible to have saved some limbs, which have been cut off, no man will pretend to say ; but this does not render the practice injudicious. Do not the majority of those who get into the above hazardous condition, and on whom amputation is not performed, perish in consequence of their wounds? Have not many lives been preserved by amputation, which, from the same circumstances, would otherwise most probably have been lost? Pressing and urgent as the state of a com- pound fracture may be, at this first point of time, still it will be a matter of choice, whether the limb shall be removed or not; but, at the second period, the operation must be submitted to, or the patient must die. The most unpromising appearances at first, do not necessarily, or constantly end unfortunately- Sometimes, after the most threatening first symp- toms, after considerable length of time, great dis- charges of matter, and large exfoliations of bone, success shall ultimately be obtained, and the pa- tient shall recover his health and the use of his limb. But sometimes, after the most judicious treat- ment through every stage of the disease ; after the united efforts of physic and surgery, the sore, instead of granulating kindly, pnd contracting daily to a smaller size, shall remain as large as at first, with a tawny, spongy surface, discharging a large quantity of thin sanies, instead of a small one of good matter; the fractured ends of the bones, instead of tending to exfoliate, or to unite, will remain as perfectly loose and disunited as at first, while the patient shall lose his sleep, his appetite, and his strength ; a hectic fever, with a quick, small, hard pulse, profuse sweats, and col- liquative purging, contributing at the same time to bring him to the brink of the grave, notwith-