WOUNDS. H87 4 G 2 amples of wounds, which penetrate the large ca- vities, being healed by the first intention, that is, without any suppuration. Even wounds of the chest itself, with injury of the lungs (conti- nues an experienced military surgeon and pro- fessor), ought to be united by the first inten- tion. (Assulini, in Mannale di Chirurgia, varte Seconda, p. 13.) More frequently, how- ever, in cases of deep stabs, the pain is intole- rable; and the inflammatory symptoms run so high as to leave no hope of avoiding suppuration. In this condition, an emollient poultice is the best local application; and, when the matter is formed, the treatment is like that of abscesses in general. See Suppuration. Poisoned Wounds : Bite of the Viper.—If we exclude from present consideration the bites of mad dogs, and other rabid animals, which sub- ject is fully treated of in the article Hydropho- bia, wounds of this description are not very common in these islands. In dissections, pricks of. the hand sometimes occur, and they are, in reality, a species of poisoned wound, frequently causing considerable pain and irritation in the course of the absorbents; swelling and suppu- ration of the lymphatic glands of the arm, or axilla ; and severe fever and constitutional irri- tation. An instance of the fatal consequences of such an injury must still be fresh in the re- collection of the profession ; and some others of yet more recent date have taken place in this metropolis. (See London. Medical Repository, Vol. 7,p. 238.) In many instances, however, surgeons wound their fingers in dissecting bodies, and no particu- lar ill consequences ensue. The healthy and ro- bust are said to suffer less frequently after such accidents, than persons, whose constitutions have been weakened by hard study, excesses, pleasure, or previous disease. It is remarked, also, that pricks of the fingers, met with in open- ing the bodies of persons, who have died of con- tagious diseases, and where a virus, or infectious matter, might be expected to exist in such bo- dies, do not communicate the infection. Doubt- less (observes Richerand) the activity of certain animal poisons, from which the venereal and several other diseases arise, is extinguished with •life. (Nosographic Chir. T. 1, p, 102, 103, Edit. 4.) With regard to the treatment of the pricks of dissecting scalpels, the surgeons of the continent recommend the immediate cauterization of the lit- tle wounds with a grain of caustic potassa, or the liquid muriate of ammonia. Tonic remedies, particularly wine, is prescribed, and great atten- tion paid to emptying the bowels. The stings of bees, wasps, and hornets, are also poisoned wounds, though they are seldom important enough to require the assistance of a surgeon. The hornet is not found in Scotland ; but it is an inhabitant of several of the woods in England. Its sting, which is more painful than that of a bee, or wasp, is not, however, often the occasion of any serious consequences. The stings of all these insects are attended with a sharp pain in the part, very quickly succeeded by an inflammatory swelling, which, after a short time, generally subsides of itself. When the eye is stung, as sometimes has happened, tiie effects may be very severe, as is elsewhere noticed. (See Ophthalmy.) It has been lately observed, that the pain of the stings of venomous insects, like the bee, depends less upon the introduction of the sting into the part, than upon that of the venomous fluid. The experiments of Professor Dumeril tend to prove, that, when the little poi- son-bladder, situated at the base of the sting, has been cut oil) a wound with the sting then produces no pain. The poison flows from the vesicle through the sting at the instant when this passes into the flesh. The exact nature of this venomous fluid is not known. When applied to mucous surfaces, or even to the surface of the conjunctiva of the eye, it causes no disagreeable sensation; but when it is introduced into the skin, by means of a needle, it immediately ex- cites very acute pain. Oil, honey, spirits of wine, the juice of the plantain, and a variety of other local applications, have been extolled as specifics for the relief of the stings of insects. Modern experience, however, does not sanction their claim to this character. In fact, none of these applications either neutral- ize the poison, or appease with superior efficacy the pain of the sting. These cases should all be treated on common antiphlogistic principles, and the most rational plan is to extract the sting, taking care, in the first instance, to cut off the little poison-vesicle with scissars, lest in the attempts to withdraw the sting, more of the virus be compressed into the part. The stung part should then be immersed for a time in ice-cold water, and afterwards co- vered with linen wet with the liquor plumbi ace- tatis dilutus. Were the inflammation to exceed the usual degree, leeches and aperient medicines would be proper. In short, as there is no spe- cific for the cure of these cases, they are to be treated with common antiphlogistic means. With regard to the bites of serpents, those in- flicted by the rattle-snake of America, and the cobra di capello of the East Indies, are the most speedily mortal. Indeed, this is so much the case, that sometimes there is scarcely an oppor- tunity of trying any remedies ; and, even when the patient is not destroyed thus rapidly, there is such general disorder of the nervous system, with repeated faintings, and sickness, that medi- cines cannot well be retained in the stomach, at least for some time. Mr. Catesby, in the Preface to his Natural History of Carolina, informs us, that the Indians, who, by their constant wanderings in the woods, are liable to be bit by snakes, know, as soon as they receive the injury, whether it will prove mortal or not, If it be on any part at a distance from large blood vessels, or where the circulation is not vigorous, they apply their remedies; but, if any vein, of considerable magnitude, be hurt, they quietly resign themselves td their fate, knowing that nothing can then be of service. Amongst the remedies, on which they chiefly de- pend, are seneka root, volatile alkali, and, par- ticularly, strong doses of, arsenic, as will be pre- sently noticed again. If we put out of consideration animals affected with rabies, the viper inflicts the worst poisoned wound ever met witli in these islands. In fact, it is an animal which inserts into the part, which it bites, a poison capable of exciting very serious consequences. The jaws of the viper