942 PROSTATE GLAND. published his first vol. on diseases of the prostate gland, lie had seen only the left lobe form the greatest projection within the bladder; but, in bis seeond vol. published in 1818, there is an engraving, representing the right lobe thus altered; and lie mentions two instances, in which a similar enlargement of the same lobe had taken place. Mr. Wilson has also more, than once, met with this greater swelling of the right lobe. (0« the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 33G.) The recollection of these facts will often enable the practitioner to incline the beak of a catheter in the direction, by which it may be conducted into the bladder, and thus, as Sir Evmard Home has remarked, the surgeon, after trying^ently on the left side, and not suc- ceeding, 46 not to persevere in that direction, but try whether the passage will offer less resistance on the opposite side. The diseased state of the body of the prostate gland, and of the lateral lobes, here alluded to by Sir Everard Home, he says, is very different from that, which is met with in the earlier periods of life, in consequence of strictures of the urethra, and which subsides when the obstruction in that canal is removed. This enlargement of the pro- state gland from strictures, he observes, may not be unaptly compared to the swelling of the testicle in gonorrhoea, a case of accidental inflammation in a healthy testicle; while the other disease of the prostate is analogous to the more permanent disease of the latter organ. This author adverts, however, to a few instances, in which the enlarge- ment of the body of the prostate gland from stric- tures, in persons 50 years of age, did not subside immediately the latter affection was cured, a com- mon bougie stopping at the neck of the bladder, although a catheter, which had a regular curve, readily passed. According to Sir Everard Home, as in such cases, the patients were able to empty their bladders, it is evident, that there could be no enlargement of the middle lobe. In cases like these, no symptom of importance is pro- duced, and, whether the swelling of the prostate readily subsides, or not, is of no consequence; though, if the stricture do not return, it will always ultimately diminish. (On Diseases of the Prostate Gland, Vol. 1, p. 24.) In patients under 50 years of age, Sir Everard Home has rarely found the middle lobe so swelled as to produce retention of urine, or an inability to empty the bladder, notwithstanding the rest of the gland might be much enlarged. (P. 23.) When the middle, and one of the lateral lobes, project considerably into the bladder together, their surface is sometimes excoriated; and has an ulcerated appearance. Under such circum- stances, the pain, after voiding the last drops of urine, is said to be very severe, and attended with spasmodic affections of the neck of the blad- der, of the most distressing kind. According to Sir Everard Home, another effect of a similar enlargement of the prostat9 gland is to render its secretion extremely viscid and very abundant. A question might arise about the real source of this ropy mucus, and some might infer, that it was secreted by the bladder; but that it comes entirely from the inflamed prostate gland is proved, says this gentleman, by its having been found in one instance with one extremity flontinrr in the bladder in the dead body, while the other extremity appeared divided into small filaments, terminating in the orifices of the ex- cretory ducts of the gland at the verumontanum. The quantity of secretion is observed to depend more upon the degree of irritation, than the actual enlargement of the gland, and, as this in- creased secretion happens in cases of swelling of this part from strictures, where the body and lateral lobes are alone affected, it is inferred, that the disease of the middle lobe only contributes to this effect by keeping up a straining, and dis- turbance of every part of the gland. (P. 32.) The internal membrane of the bladder inflames, and becomes extremely irritable, so that, even when the quantity of urine is small, there is a great deal of straining. When the size and form of the tumor are such as to allow the greater part of the urine to pass, though with great effort, Sir Everard states, that the sym- ptoms may continue nearly the same for months; liable, however, to occasional aggravations from slight causes, and becoming more or less re- lieved, when these are removed. Nay, he ob- serves, that the symptoms may even lessen, although the disease is not at all diminished; a circumstance, which is ascribed to the muscular coats of the bladder having acquired greater strength, and the internal membrane having lost, from habit, the sensibility, which it pos- sessed in the earlier stage. (P. 34.) He further explains, that, in this disease, when the inside of the bladder is inflamed, filamentous portions of coagulating lymph are thrown olf from it, which, when the inflammation increases, subside in the urine evacuated, looking not un- like white hair-powder; and, when the irritation is very violent, perfectly formed pus is met with in the urine. (P. 35.) After the inflammation subsides, the bladder becomes again capable of retaining a larger quantity of urine, though its power of completely emptying itself is still further diminished. According to Mr. Wilson, the symptoms, which generally attend an enlarged prostate gland, are similar to those of an irritable blad- der;—constant, heavy, dull pain in the gland, and sometimes sharp lancinating pains, darting from it to the urethra, and occasionally to the bladder and ureters. Frequent calls to void the urine, which is passed with difficulty, only a small quantity being discharged at a time, as more or less always remains behind in the blad- der. A complete retention of urine may be pro- duced, so that not one drop will pass, although much straining is used. Great difficulty in ex- pelling the feces, and after each evacuation, a feeling is still experienced, as if the gut were not yet emptied. During the efforts to expel the urine and feces, a quantity of the mucous se- cretion of the prostate gland is not unfrequently forced out. Most of these symptoms, as Mr. Wilson observes, are similar to those produced by stone, and, therefore, when they occur, the gland should be examined by the rectum, and, if it be not found diseased, a sound should be introduced into the bladder. (On the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 339.) Flic particular differences, between the symptoms of stone, and those arising from disease of the prostate gland, arc explained in the article Lithotomy.