PARACENTESIS. 915 iris, an 7mc.) On the other hand, as much utrarietv of sentiment respecting the real ;1 permanent efficacy of all these medicines 'vails in the numerous reports about them, as the accounts delivered of the effects of the .riatie and nitric acid; and, therefore, I do think that the reader, after the copious state- nts given in this book concerning the nitric i nitrous acids, (see these words) would be ased to hear again a repetition of very similar ntradictions, respecting the oxygenated mu- riatic acid. I may observe,- however, that, if oxygen be the principle, on which the efficacy of many antisyphilitic remedies truly depend, this acid must possess greater virtue than the com- mon muriatic acid. From Jss. to Jij. mixed in ^viij. of water, sweetened with syrup, may be taken in divided doses in the course of the day. Oxygenated muriatic acid was strongly praised by Guyton de Morveau, as a means of disinfect- ing sick-rooms, and purifying the air of crowded hospitals. yjANA'RIS. (from wap.*, near, and ovo£, the nail.) See Whitlow. PANNUS. (from to-svw, to labour.) When 3, or three pterygia, of different sizes, occurred the same eye, with their points directed to- rds the centre of the cornea, where they met, .1 covered all the surface of this transparent mbrane with a dense pellicle, the ancients ned the disease, pannus. (Scarpa, Chap. 14.) . PAItACENTE'SIS. (from wapam/.r. rriixt, to i forate.J The operation of tapping or making ■opening into the abdomen, thorax, or bladder, i the purpose of discharging the fluid confined these parts in cases of ascites, empyema, hy- thorax, and retention of urine. Effused blood ■ y also require an opening to be made into the ist; and so may confined air in the instance c emphysema. TAPPING, OR. PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. When the swelling extends equally over the ole abdomen, the fluid is usually diffused ong all the viscera, and is only circumscribed the boundaries of the peritonaeum. The water occasionally included in different cysts, which ; generally formed in one of the ovaries; and, this case, the tumor, which is produced, is not uniform, the fluctuation is not so distinct, as the former instance, at least, this is the case ile the disease has not made very great pro- :ss. The difference, also, in the consistence the fluid, may render the fluctuation more, or s difficult of detection. When the water is itained in different cysts, it is frequently thick 1 gelatinous; but, when it is uniformly dif- ed all over the cavity of the peritonaeum, it is nerally thinner, and even quite limpid. Some- tes, a considerable number of hydatids are md floating in the fluid, discharged in cases ascites. 'Whatever may be the efficacy of digitalis, ■rcury, diuretics, and other evacuants, in 'ites, they are rarely of any service in cases local and encysted dropsies. When such ellings continue to enlarge, notwithstanding : adoption of a few measures, which will pre- ltly be suggested, the sooner the fluid is icuated, the better. It is also well known, it all efforts to produce a radical cure even of >psies, which are not encysted, too frequently ' * am decidedly of opinion, however, with Fothcrgill, that physicians would meet with much more success, in the treatment of ascites, if they were to recommend paracentesis to be done sooner, than they generally do. This ope- ration is, for the most part, much too long de- layed ; and during a long space, the bowels are continually suffering, more and more, from the effect of the large quantity of fluid, which op- presses them. What ought to render the prac- tice of early tapping more entitled to approbation, is, that the operation, when done in the situation, which will be presently advised, is perfectly free from danger, attended with very little pain, and need not interrupt the further trial of such medi- cines, as the physician may' place confidence in. Paracentesis only becomes a serious measure, when the disease has existed for a great length of time, and the patient has been much weakened by it. Indeed, there seems much reason to sus- pect, that the operation should be done, as soon as the tenison of the abdomen, and the fluctua- tion, leave no doubt, concerning the nature of the malady; especially, when the first trials, which have been made of internal remedies, seein to promise no success. Dr. Fothergill has demonstrated by facts, the advantages of this method. On the commencement of an ascites, this celebrated practitioner advises the trial of diuretics and other evacuants. He then adds, that, “ if by' a reasonable perseverance in this course, no considerable benefit accrues; if the viscera do not evidently appear to be ob- structed, and unfit for the purposes of life; if the complaints have not been brought on by a long habitual train of intemperance, and from which there seems little hope of reclaiming the patient; if the strength and time of life are not altogether against us; I desist from medicine, except of the cordial kind; and let the disease proceed, till the operation becomes safely prac- ticable. When this is done, by the moderate use of the warmer diuretics, chalybeates and bitters, also the preparations of squills, in doses below that point, at which the stomach would be af- fected, I endeavour to prevent the abdomen from filling again.” (Med. Ohs. and Inq- Vo/. 4, p. 112.) The same author remarks, with regard to encysted dropsies, that tapping sometimes effects a radical cure. The operation should not only' be performed in as early a stage of the disease as is compati- ble with the safetv of the parts within the abdo- men, it should also be repeated ns soon ns the quantitv of fluid accumulated again is sufficient 9 N 2