1132 VAGINA, PROLAPSUS, OR INVERSION OF. pian tubes, were exceedingly enlarged, and filled with a dark brown, sanious fluid. A similar fluid was found extravasated in the abdomen, and it was discovered to have passed there through a rupture which had taken place in the Fallopian tube. The ovaries were in a natural state. De Haen, who has related this case in the sixth part of his work, intitled Ratio Mc- dcndi, was of opinion that, in order to avoid opening the rectum, or bladder, only one oblique cut should be made in the membrane, which stops up the vagina, just, as was advised by Meeckren. (Sabatier de la Medccine Opera- toirc, T. 1.) VAGINA, PROLAPSUS, OR INVER- SION OF. According to Sabatier and Levret, the displaced part does not consist of all the coats of the vagina, in the same manner as the inverted uterus is formed of the whole substance of this viscus. These writers contend, that the lining of the vagina is alone displaced, in con- sequence of the swelling, and thickening, with which it is affected. Upon this point, however, Richter does not not accede to the opinion of Sabatier and Levret, but describes the vagina as being liable to two kinds of prolapsus. In one case, all its tunics are stated to be included in the protrusion, the part becoming inverted at the same time that it falls down. In the other ex- ample, it is only the relaxed lining of the vagina, which descends, and makes the pro- trusion. The possibility of a prolapsus of the whole of the vagina, together with all its coats, says Richter, has been doubted by Sabatier and Le- vret; but without any real foundation. If it be possible for the inner coat of the vagina to sepa- rate from the external, with which it is intimately connected (an event which every body admits as happening in the second kind of prolapsus of the vagina), why, asks Richter, should it be impos- sible for the whole of this tube, together with all its coats, to be separated from the surrounding parts, to which it is less closely adherent ? Sometimes, the rectum, inclusive of all its coats, forms what is termed a prolapsus ani, and why may not the vagina be displaced in a similar manner, since it must be much more liable than the rectum to be propelled downwards in the vio- lent straining at the time of delivery? Richter asks, whether every prolapsus uteri is not accom- panied with such a displacement of the vagina ? Cases are upon record, where the prolapsus of the vagina happened all on a sudden, in conse- quence of falls, the starting of a horse, &c. (Horn, Levret, Journ. dc Med. T. 40.) Here it cannot be supposed, that the case was merely a protrusion of the inner coat, which can only be gradually relaxed and elongated. Lastly, some instances, in which the prolapsus of the vagina was several inches in length, have been gradu- ally reduced by means of external pressure. (How.) IIow can it be imagined, says Richter, that such cases could proceed from any degree of relaxation, to which the membranous lining of the vagina is liable? Richter acknowledges, however, that a pro- lapsus of all the coats of the vagina is much less . . n 1 i.! a I of a prolapsus of the uterus; and that it cannot easily happen at all, except about the period of delivery. (See Anfangsgr. dcr Wundarzn. B. 7, Kapitcl 4.) According to Sabatier, the prolapsus, or in- version,., of the vagina appears like a thick, cir- cular substance, irregularly plaited in the mid- dle, and at the bottom of which the cervix uteri is situated, having descended further down than natural. The displaced portion of the vagina increases, or diminishes, according as the patient sits up, or keeps in bed a certain time. The complaint is accompanied with a sense of heavi- ness in the hypogastric region ; tenesmus ; and a difficulty of making water, in consequence of the alteration produced in the direction of the meatus urinarius. Such is the prolapsus of the vagina in an early state; but when it has been of long standing, and the patients have remained, for a long while, without any assistance, the membranous lining of the passage becomes more and more thickened; and the tumor, which it forms, be- comes more considerable, elongated, and hard- ened. In this state, there still continues, at the lower part of the swelling, an opening, out of which the usual evacuations are made. The grievances suffered are similar to those arising from a prolapsus uteri, to which, indeed the pre- sent case bears a great resemblance. The pro- lapsus vaginae, however, differs, inasmuch as the tumor formed by a descent of the uterus, is very firm, and terminates in a narrow end, where may be observed the oblong transverse opening, named the os tincae; while the tumor, arising from a prolapsus of the vagina, is soft, thicker below than elsewhere, and ends in an irregular aperture. Occasionally, a prolapsus of a very limited portion of the vagina is observed. This case is generally the consequence of an uncommon sort of rupture, termed the vaginal hernia (see Hernia) ; but it should also be known that, in some cases of dropsy, a circumscribed protrusion of the vagina, in the form of a cyst, or pouch, filled with fluid, is sometimes noticed. (Rich- ter, Op. ct loco citato.) When the prolapsus vaginae is recent, the part may be easily reduced, and kept up with a pes- sary. The use of astringent lotions will also tend to prevent a relapse. But, when the case has been of long standing, it is neither easy to effect the reduction, nor to prevent a recurrence of the disorder. Softening, relaxing remedies, in this circumstance, are recommended, and the patient should, in particular, confine herself to her bed, and wear a T bandage, which should be made to press upon, and support, a piece of sponge in the orifice of the vagina. It is reasonable to expect, that after a pro- lapsus vaginae has continued a long while, the reduction must be difficult; because the vagina in this state becomes aflected with swelling and induration. According to the reports of Hoin and Levret, a large protrusion of this kind, ten inches in length, was so diminished by keeping the patient invariably confined in bed upon her back, that, in the course of a month, the rest of it i . .. . rtf Lrtinn. vrt.l nnm] T nil/iAfl