1010 SURGERY. cutting off both portions of the ligature close to the knot, after amputation, the removal of the breast, &c. No one has insisted so much as Mr. Lawrence upon the propriety of examining further the merits of this innovation. . If no bad effects result from leaving so small a particle of extraneous substance in the flesh, as the little bit of silk composing the knot and noose on the artery, the practice will form a considerable im- provement. The wound may then be brought to- gether at every point; the quantity of extraneous matter in the wound will be lessened to almost nothing; the danger of convulsive affections will be reduced in proportion as a serious cause of pain and irritation is diminished; and the chance of accomplishing perfect union by the first intention will be materially increased. Mr. Lawrence has tried the plan in many instances, and hitherto his experience has not found any ill consequences follow, while it has proved, that many advantages are undoubtedly the result of it. In amputations, the method has been practised by several of our military surgeons; and, although they have probably not employed exactly such ligatures as this mode absolutely requires, the greater part of them have met with hardly any instances of future trouble from the bits of liga- ture enclosed in the wound. However, if large ligatures be used, the practice is not fairly tried, or rather the practice is not tried at all; because the great principle, on which it answers, is the very small atom of silk composing the extra- neous substance, left in the wound, when such li- gatures as Mr. Lawrence particularly recom- mends, are employed. Delpech and Roux have also sometimes adopted the plan of removing the ends of the ligature close to the knot. (See Pa- rallels dr, la Chir. Angloise avec la Chir. Fran- foise, p. 131) See Amputation, Aneurism, Hemorrhage, and Ligature. Amongst other real improvements in modern practice, I must not forget the present more rational method of dressing the wound, after the majority of capital operations, with light, cooling applications, instead of laying on the part a farrago of irritating pledgets and plasters, and a cumbersome mass of lint, tow, flannel and other bandages, woollen caps, &e. The fewer the adheiive strips are the better, if they only hold the lips of the wound together. This is all they are intended to do. Whereas, if you apply more than are necessary for th jS purpose, they do harm by heating the part, and covering the wound so entirely as to prevent the issue of the discharge. Over the adhesive plasters, let the surgeon be content with placing a si mple pledget of sper- maceti cerate, and some linen wet with cold water, which will often avert hurtful degrees of pain, and inflammation, by keeping the parts cool. Wars, which are unfavourable to most other sciences, are rather conducive to advances in surgery. The many new and interesting ob- servations, which Baron Larrey has made in the course of Ins long and extensive military ex- perience, are a proof of the foregoing remark. Pitard, almost the founder of surgery in France, was a military surgeon. Ambroise Pare and R err r*f AXTl Jc/s onll.-Wnfl their most vnlunhlo practical information in the same line of life. To Baron Larrey surgeons are indebted for many highly important observations, relating to amputation in cases of gunshot wounds. In particular, he has adduced a larger and more convincing body of evidence, than was ever be- fore collected, to prove, that, in gunshot injuries, the operation of amputation should always be performed without the least delay, in every in- stance, in which such operation is judged to be unavoidable, and the ultimate preservation of the limb either impossible, or beyond the scope of all rational probability. He has established the truth of this most important precept in military surgery by innumerable facts, drawn chiefly from his own ample experience, and partly from the practice of many able colleagues. The great operations of the shoulder-joint, and hip-joint amputations, lie has executed with success. The necessity for the former, however, he proves may some- times be superseded, and the limb be saved, bv making a suitable incision for the extraction of the splintered portions of the upper part of the humerus. This method, which was in many in- stances done with success in the peninsular war, was, I believe, originally proposed and practised ( by Boucher. (See Mem. dc I’Acad. de Chir T. 2, 4to.) However, it was more particularly I described and even practised by Mr. C. White, of Manchester. (See his Cases in Surgery.) It has been repeated with success by Mr. Morel! in the York Hospital. (See Med. Chir. Trant.%1 Vol. 7.) See Amputation. Amputation at the hip-joint, performed onlvi in the most dreadful cases, because itself thej most dreadful operation in surgery, Baronj Larrey has performed five times, and twice (I) believe) with success. This proceeding has alsoj been adopted by Mr. Brownrigg and Mr.j Guthrie, and their patients recovered. As nuetj be the case, however, on account of the despe-f rate circumstances under which the operation isj • performed, and the severity of the operation siji itself, the examples of recovery bear only a smalij proportion to the large number of deaths, know! to have followed amputation at the hip in tha many cases, in which it has now been under taken. However, the unfortunate truth shouV not be exaggerated into a reason for a genera t condemnation of the practice, which is adopte k t, as the only means affording a chance of lift ik But, as there may be difficulty in decidin| i*»: whether the patient will have the best chant l4 with, or without the operation, it is to be hope |4 that no surgeons will perform it, except unde 1$ the authority of the united opinion of a boan H or consultation, of the best informed pract kfc tioners, whofti circumstances will allow to a i1 semble. See Amputation. In military surgery, the useful innovation tt. ambulances, or light caravans, furnished with t s- proper number of surgeons assistants and ordc r lies, and capable of keeping up with the va e & guard, if requisite, is undoubtedly the best mca 11* of affording speedy surgical assistance to t I -is wounded on the field of battle, and ought to ft 1, enumerated as one of the greatest modern a provements. Barons Percy and Larrey, * i> fS: tit- thp rliipf nr.'iicn fnr