253 BURNS. The yellow ointment stops the pores of the cloth, impedes evaporation, and thus confines the eilect of the alcohol to the burnt surface. The first dressings are to remain on four and twenty hours. Dr." Kentish thinks it of importance, that the injured surface should be left uncovered, as little as possible. It is, therefore, recommend- ed, to have plasters, ready spread, before remo- vin'’' the old ones, and then only to take off one piece at a time. Jt will seldom be necessary to repeat the ap- plication of alcohol a second time, or that of ileum terebinthinre. The inflammatory action will be found diminished, and according to Dr. Kentish’s principles, the exciting means should .hereiore be diminished. W arm proof-spirits, or laudanum, may be substituted for the alcohol, aid the unguentum resinre Havre is to be mixed .vith oleum camph. instead of turpentine. If this should be found too irritating, Dr. Kentish re- .'ommends ung. satum. or cer. lap. calaminaris. Powdered chalk is to be used to repress the : growth of exuberant granulations, and to absorb :he pus. In the cavities of separated eschars, ind in the furrows, between sloughs, and living >arts, he introduces powdered chalk. Then a blaster is applied, and, in tedious cases, a poul- ice over the plaster. With respect to the internal treatment, the .uthor observes, that great derangement of the ystem arises in certain persons, from causes, /hich, in others, produce no effect; and that his depends on a difference in the degree of trength. Hence, he concludes, that as strength sists the sympathetic irritative actions of parts, nd weakness induces them, we should, in all ases, make the system as strong as we can, im- lediately upon the receipt of the injury. In onsiderable burns, he supposes a disproportion of ction to take place, between the injured parts, nd the system at large, or what, he styles, a olution of the continuity of action; and, that y a law of the system, a considerable commotion rises, for the purpose of restoring the equili- rium, or enabling the constitution to take on the ttion of the part. Hence, Dr. Kentish is of union, that the indication is to restore the unity action of ihe uhole system, as soon as possible, f throwing it into such a state as to absorb the leased action, and then gradually bring down ie whole to the natural standard of action by cely diminishing the exciting powers. /Ether id alcohol, or other stimulants, are to be imme- ately given in proportion to the degree of in- ry ; and repeated, once or twice, within the st twelve hours, and, afterwards, wine or ale to be ordered, till suppuration takes place, ien it will be no longer necessary to excite the h stem. In a second essay’, Dr. Kentish remarks, that, the first species of burns, in which the action the part is only increased, he has not found any ing better for the first application, than the ated oleum terebinthinae and the basilicon oint- -nt, thinned with the same. In superficial rns, when the pain has ceased, he considers it visable to desist from this application in about ar and twenty hours, and use at the second easing, a digestive, sufficiently thinned with mmon oil, beginning on the third day, with c ceratum lap. calaminaris. This author has frequently seen secondary inflammation excited by the remedy. The most certain remedy, for this unpleasant symptom, is a digestive ointment, thinned with oil, or a plaster of cerate, and over that a large warm poultice. The cerate will finish the cure. Should there be much uneasiness of the system, an anodyne, proportioned to the age of the patient, should be given. The growth of fungus, and the profuse dis- charge of matter, are to be repressed, as already mentioned, l>yr sprinkling powdered chalk on the surface, and by’ the use of purgatives, in the latter stages. The chalk must be very finely levigated. Dr. Kentish’s theories are, as far as I can judge, visionary : they may amuse the fancy’, but, can never improve the judgment. They are nearly unintelligible; they ate unsupported by any sort of rational evidence; and, as being only’ the dreams of a credulous, sportive imagination, they must soon decline into neglect, if not oblivion. However, in making these remarks, it is far from my intention to extend the same animadversion to the mode of treatment, insisted upon by’ Dr. Kentish, which forms a question, which cannot be determined by reason, but by experience. He is a man, who has had superior opportunities of observing this part of practice, and the alleged success of his plan of treatment has acquired ex- tensive approbation, although there are still many practitioners, who prefer common methods, and the antiphlogistic principles. The cicatrix of a burn is often of great extent, and, on this ac- count, the subsequent absorption of the granula- tions on which the new skin is formed, (a process by which the magnitude of the scar is afterwards lessened.) is so considerable, as to draw the neighbouring parts out of their natural position, and occasion the most unpleasant kinds of defor- mity’. Thus, burns on the neck are apt to cause a distortion of the head, or even draw down the chin to the breast bone ; and in the limbs such contractions as fix the joints in one immoveable position. Simply dividing these contractions again mostly fails altogether, or only’ produces very partial and temporary’ relief, as after the cicatrization is completed, the new formed parts are absorbed, and the contraction recurs. A pro- posal has been lately made by’ my friend Mr. Earle, to cut away the whole of the cicatrix, and then bring the edges of the skin as much towards each other as possible, in the transverse direction, with strips of adhesive plaster. In one case, in which “ from the forepart of the upper arm, to within about two inches of the wrist, a firm tense cicatrix, of an almost horny consistence, extended, which kept the elbow iinmoveably’ bent to a right angle,” this gentleman performed such an opera- tion. After removing the cicatrix, the flexor muscles at first made some resistance to the ex- tension of the limb ; but by degrees they’ yielded, and the arm was brought nearly to a right line. The whole limb was kept in thisposition by’ means of a splint and bandage. In the end, the con- traction was cured, and the use ol the limb re- stored. (See Idled. Cltir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 96, #(,0 Probably, as this patient was a young growing subject, only six years of age, the operation would lmve proved equally successful, if a simple divi- sion of the contracted skin had been made, and