ANEURISM. Such were the inferences made by Scarpa, in 1804, one of the most distinguished anatomists and surgeons of the present day upon the conti- nent. It has been already stated, that great as this authority is, several eminent modern sur- geons, as Richerand, Boyer,Dubois, Dupuytren, Sabatier, Breschet, &c. did not yield to it, but still contended that in some aneurisms, the coats of the artery were dilated. These professors in France coincided with what has been usually taught upon this subject in the surgical schools of Groat Britain. Every lecturer here has been accustomed to describe the distinctions of aneu- risms into true and false, or into somecases which are accompanied with dilatation, and into others, which are attended with rupture of the arterial coats. A few years ago, Mr. Hodgson, of Bir- mingham, published a valuable* treatise on aneu- rism, in which work he differs from Scarpa, and joins those surgical writers who believe in the occasional dilatation of the coats of the arteries in this disease. Fie inquires : “ Is every aneu- rism produced by a destruction of the internal and middle coats of the vessel, and does not a partial dilatation of these coats occasionally pre- cede, and -rive rise to their destruction : I believe that this is frequently the case. We have seen that the disorganization of the coats of an artery, by destroying their natural elasticity, will give rise to permanent dilatation of the whole circum- ference of the vessel; and there is every reason to expect, that a loss of its elasticity in a portion only of the diameter of the vessel will give rise to a partial dilatation of its coats. Indeed, the proofs of a partial dilatation of the coats of an artery, particularly of the aorta, are incontestably established by the possiblity of tracing the coats of the vessel throughout the whole extent of the expansion, and by the existence of those morbid appearances in the sac, which are peculiar to the coats of the arteries. “ In the year 1811, (says Mr. Hodgson), I dissected an aneurism of the aorta, which was re- moved from the body of a young woman by my friend Dr. Farre. The sac was as large as a small melon, and had proved fatal by bursting into the posterior mediastinum, and subsequently into the cavity of the thorax. This aorta ex- hibited the formation of aneurism by partial dila- tation in three distinct stages. The internal coat was throughout inflamed, and presented a fleshy and irregular appearance. At the arch of the aorta, there was a dilatation not larger than the half of a small pea. About two inches lower in the same vessel, was a second dilatation, which would have contained a hazel nut, and immedi- ately above the diaphragm was the large aneu- rism, which had proved fatal. I removed that portion of the vessel* which contained the small- est dilatation, and macerated it until its coats could be separated without violence. I found that the dilatation existed equally in the three coats of the vessel, and, when separated, each presented the appearance of a minute aneurism. The second dilatation exhibited the same circumstances in a more advanced stage. The coats of the vessels '''ere. more intimately adherent to each other, •'an in a natural state, but, it was evident, that • >e dilatation consisted in a dilatation of the in- ternal, the middle, and the external coats of the aorta. In the large aneurism, the disorganized internal and middle coats could be traced for 6ome distance into the sac, when the parts con- tained in the posterior mediastinum, and the ver- tebrae, formed the remainder of the cyst. There can be little doubt, that this sac commenced in a dilatation of the coats of the vessel, similar to those appearances which existed in the superior portion of the artery, and the dissection appeared to illustrate the formation of aneurism by partial dilatation in three distinct stages.” (Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 66, 68.) As far as Kreysig’s information extends, nobody before Mr. Hodgson, had examined the structure of an aneurismal sac in this accurate manner, viz. by maceration, and the results, he thinks, are not liable to the slightest objections. (See the Ger- man TransL of Mr. Hodgson’s work, with notes by Kreijsig and Koberwein, p. 109, Honour, 1817.) Mr. IFodgson has seen this partial dilatation in almost all the arteries, which are subject to aneurism : at the division of the carotids, and iliacs; in the arteries of the brain, &c.; and he agrees with Dr. Baillie, (Morbid Anatomy, ftc.J Laennec, (Ceruttius Beschreib. d. Krankh. Piaparate d. Anot, Theatres zu Ltipz. p. 408, 8or. 1819,) and others, that aneurisms at the origin of the aorta are generally formed by dilatation of the coats of the vessel. “ Partial as well as general dilatation (says Mr. Hodgson), frequently precedes the forma- tion of aneurism in the arteries of the extremities. A gentleman had a large aneurism in the thigh, which had undergone a spontaneous cure. Upon examining the limb after death, the popliteal artery was found to be thickened and covered with calca- reous matter. A small pouch, which would have contained the seed of an orange, originated from the side of this artery. This little sac was evi- dently formed by a dilatation of the coats of the vessel; for, the internal and middle coats could be traced in its circumference, and the former in that situation exhibited the same morbid appear- ances, which it possessed in other parts of the vessel. A man died from the sloughing of an aneurism in the ham: in the femoral artery there was a small aneurism, about as large as a walnut. The external coat was dissected from the surface of the tumour to a considerable ex- tent. The internal and middle coats were evi- dently dilated, and contributed to the formation of the sac. The dilatation of these coats was gradual, and they continued for a considerable distance to form the sac, when they were inse- parably blended with the surrounding parts.” (Op. cit.p. 70.) When Mr. A. Burns bears testimony to the fidelity and accuracy of Scarpa’s general detail, headds, that perhaps it may not be unifonulj’found, that “ the root of an aneurism never includes the whole circumference of the tube of an artery.” We have, says he, a preparation, in which the re- verse has taken place. In this case, the whole cylinder of the vessel, from the heart to beyond the curvature, is equally dilated; and dilated to such an extent, that the tumour measures no less than ten incites in circumference. Scarpa limits dilatation, says Mr. Burns, to that stale of an artery, in which the coats remain in their natural relation to each other, and in which they are not altered in their texture, nor lined on their inner