466 FRACTURES. grene has been begun, but I never saw it suc- ceed ; it has always hastened the patient's destruc- tion *. As far therefore as my experience will en- able me to judge, or as I may from thence be permitted to dictate, I would advise that such at- tempt should never be made; but, the first op- portunity having been neglected, or not em- braced, all the power of the chirurgic art is to be employed in assisting nature to separate the dis- eased part from the sound ; an attempt which now and then, under particular circumstances, has proved successful, but which is so rarely so, as not to be much depended upon. “ If the parts are so bruised and torn, that the circulation through them is rendered imprac- ticable, or if the gangrene is the immediate effect of such mischief, the consequence of omitting amputation, and of attempting to save the limb is, as I have already observed, most frequently very early destruction: but, if the gangrenous mischief be not merely and immediately the effect of the wounded state of the parts, but of high inflammation, badness of general habit, im- proper disposition of the limb, &c. it is some- times in our power so to alleviate, correct, and alter these causes, as to obtain a truce with the disease, and a separation of the unsound parts from the sound. The means whereby to ac- complish this end must, in the nature of things, be varied according to the producing causes or circumstances : the sanguine and bilious must be lowered and emptied; the weak and debilitated must be assisted by such medicines as will add force to the vis vitcc; and errors in the treat- ment of the wound or fracture must be cor- rected ; but it is evident to common sense, that for these there is no possibility of prescribing any other than very general rules indeed. The nature and circumstances of each individual case must determine the practitioner’s conduct. “ In general, inflammation will require phle- botomy and an open belly, together with the neutral antiphlogistic medicines; pain and irri- tation will stand in need of anodynes, and the Peruvian bark, joined in some cases, and at some times, with those of the cooling kind, at others with the cordial, will be found necessary and useful. So also tension and induration will point out the use of fomentation and warm re- laxing cataplasms, and the most soft and lenient treatment and dressing.” Mr. Pott then offers many just observations against stimulating antiseptic applications to the * In the article Gunshot Wounds, however, the reader will find, that there is a species of gangrene, arising from external violence, and totally unconnected with constitutional causes, where the surgeon should deviate from the com- mon rule of deferring amputation, until the mor- tification has ceased to spread. A memoir « Sur la Gangrene Truinrwtuiue," which was published a few years ago by Baron Larrey, con- tains the most decisive facts in regard to the pro- priety of such practice. (See his ill cm. de Thh • MUitaire, T. 2.) And the experience of Mr. Lawrence tends also to confirm the truth of Lar- rey’s Observations. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 181, <Jc.) wound and scarification of the limb, as practised while the gangrene is forming. The custom of using stimulating dressings to bad compound fractures first began in cases produced by gun- shot, and had its foundation in the opinion, that gun-shot wounds were poisonous, and that tho mortification in them was the effect of fire; a doctrine and practice now completely exploded. “ A gun-shot wound (says Pott) whether with or without fracture, is a wound accompanied with the highest degree of contusion, and with some degree of laceration; and every greatly contused and lacerated wound requires the same kind of treatment which a gun-shot wound does, as far as regards the soft parts. The intention in both ought to be to appease pain, irritation, and inflammation.” “ Scarification, in the manner, and at the time, in which it is generally ordered and performed, has never appeared to me to have served any one good purpose. When the parts are really mortified, incisions made of sufficient depth will give discharge to a quantity of acrid and offensive ichor; will let out the confined air, which is the effect of putrefaction ; and thereby will contri- bute to unloading the whole limb; and they will also make way for the application of proper dress- ings. But while a gangrene is impending, that is, while the parts are in the highest state of in- flammation, what the benefit can be which is sup- posed or expected to proceed from scratching the surface of the skin with a lancet, I never could imagine ; nor, though I have often seen it prac- tised, do I remember ever to have seen any real benefit from it. If the skin be still sound, and of quick sensation, the scratching it in this su- perficial manner is painful, and adds to the in- flamed state of it; if it be not sound, but quite altered, such superficial incision can do no pos- sible service; both the sanies and the imprisoned air are beneath the membrana adiposa; and merely scratching the skin in the superficial manner, in which it is generally done, will not reach to, or discharge either. “ From what has been said, it will appear, that there are three points of time, or three stages, of a bad compound fracture, in which am- putation of the limb may be necessary and right; and these three points of time are so limited, that a good deal of the hazard or safety of the operation depends on the observance or nonob- servance of them. “ The first is immediately after the accident, before inflammation has taken possession of the parts. If this opportunity be neglected or not embraced, the consequence is either a gangrene or a large suppuration, with formation and lodg- ment of matter. If the former of these be the case, the operation ought never to be thought of, till there is a perfect and absolute separation of the mortified parts*. If the latter, no man can * Compound fractures are cases of external violence. Now as the mortification proceeds from the injury, and may not be connected with any internal cause, it is an example of what Lar- rey calls the “ Gangrene Traumalique,'' and the question whether the surgeon ought to be go- verned by the old maxim of delaying amputa- tion, until the spreading of the mortification has