PUPIL. 951 the iris to the cornea, no synechia anterior, as it is termed, and no distortion of the pupil, a large dense cicatrix of the cornea may obstruct vision by lying exactly over that aperture.— Lastly, as Beer has explained, the greater part of the cornea may be in an opaque, spoiled con- dition, so that, the healthy iris can be discerned only here and there behind its circumference, no vestige of the pupil itself being distinguishable; and such concealment of the pupil, may.be either combined, or not, with a partial adhesion of the iris to the cornea. In such cases, the patient can frequently perceive the light very well.— (//. 2, p. 194—95.) From what has been stated, it is manifest, says Beer, that in many cases of atresia iridis, the prognosis must be highly unfavourable, and that no attempt to form an artificial pupil should ever be made, when the patient’s blindness proceeds from other causes, besides the imperforate state of the iris. Such an operation, Beer observes, can only be proper when the blindness is entirely owing to the closed, or concealed state 'of the pupil; when the different degrees of light can be plainly distinguished; when the case is un- complicated with any disease of other important textures of the eye, capable of rendering the manual proceedings difficult, or impracticable; when the eye has been for a long time perfectly free from inflammation; when the patient is healthy, without any tendency to scrophula, sy- philis, or gout; and both his eyes are completely blind. (B. 2, p. 196.) Some questions may be entertained, respecting this absolute prohibition of the operation in unhealthy subjects, because the line between the degree of health, requisite for the success of the operation, is difficult to specify, and gout, syphilis, and scrophula, are often vague expressions. Yet, no doubt can exist, I think, about the propriety of Beer’s ad- vice never to attempt the formation of an arti ficial pupil, when the patient enjoys vision with one of his eyes; for, when the new opening is made, as it is not in the axis of vision, the sight is confused in the other eye, unless the imper- fect eye be kept closed, and the operation can never be done, without exposing the patient to the risk of more or less inflammation in the eye, which is at present so useful to him. What- ever may be the differences of opinion, about operating in cases of single cataract, I believe that all surgeons will unanimously join Beer in the foregoing advice, respecting the imprudence of attempting to make an artificial pupil, when the patient can see with one eye. Beer represents the event of the operation as being very uncertain, when the patient cannot plainly discern the various degrees of light; when the cornea is affected with leucoma, or scarred and spoiled nearly to its very circum- ference; when there is only a partial staphylo- ma of it; or the constitution is unhealthy, or impaired by the effects of former attacks of scro- phula, syphilis, or gout. Lastly, Beer sets dowil the operation as certainly useless, or even as likely to cause an entire destruction of the eye, when the patient is quite insensible of light; when the iris and neighbouring textures, such as the cor- pus ciliare, corona ciliuris, the membrane of the vitreous humour, this humour itself, and the blood vessels of the organ, are in a morbid state, or the whole eyeball manifestly in a preterna- tural condition. However, an opacity of the lens, and its capsule, even when the latter is completely adherent to the uvea, forms no pro- hibition to the formation of an artificial pupil, though it is a circumstance that has great weight in the selection of the method of operating.— {Beer, B. 2, p. 197.) The following information, from the same source, is highly important to the practitioner: the morbid state of the iris, and other adjacent textures of the eyeball, contradicting the opera- tion, may be known by the annexed circum- stances. Together with the smaller circle of the iris, the larger one is strikingly' changed, in re- spect to its colour, its consistence, and its layers. Its radiated fibres are collected into dark blue, or blackish fasciculi, between which there is an appearance of empty interspaces, produced by the indentations of the iris, and actually semi- transparent, in consequence of the tapetum of the uvea having always been in these cases more or less annihilated by the previous inflammation. Around the cornea, the sclerotica seems blueish, or rather of a smutty greyish blue colour; and some- times certain points of this membrane are pro- tuberant. The morbid states of the whole eye- ball, which may complicate the atresia iridis, and render the operation not only useless, but hazard- ous to the preservation of the eye, are its drop- sical enlargement, (see Ily dr ophthalmia,) its atrophy; its preternatural firmness, from a ge- neral varicose affection of its blood vessels ; and its morbid softness from a disorganization of the vitreous humour. (Beer, Vol. cit. p. 198.) Before proceeding further into the subject, I think it will simplify it very much to state, that numerous as the plans of operating for artificial pupils are, if we except the occasional plan of ma- king a kind of artificial prolapsus of the iris, in or- der to change the position or shape of the imper- fectly closed pupil, they may all be classed into three principal methods. 1. The simple trans- verse, perpendicular, or otherwise directed inci- sion in the iris, now termed corotomia. 2. The excision of a piece of the iris, technically named corectomia. 3. The separation of a part of its circumference from the ciliary ligament, called in the language of oculists coroduilysis. The excision of a portion of sclerotica, close to the cornea, with the view of forming an inlet for the rays of light to the retina, as proposed by Auten- rieth, when the cornea is entirely opaque, may be considered a hopeless proceeding. With respect also to the three other methods, it is now well understood by all impartial surgeons, that the choice of them must depend upon the particular circumstances of the case, and that here it is as absurd to think of employing in all instances only one plan of operating, as to have the idea of extending the same principle to all the forms and varieties of cataract. Where the thing is possible, it is considered by Beer most advantageous to make the artificial pupil rather towards the inner canthus; though others express a preference to the centre of the iris. But, as Beer very truly remarks, since the new opening must be.where the cornea is trans- parent, the operator is frequently obliged to form it either below, or towards the temple, or quite above; for there is often only just room