INFLAMMATION. 701) because the blood is wot changed in the veins. “ As the vessels become larger, and the part be- comes more oi the' colour of blood, it is to be supposed, there is more blood in the part; and as the true inflammatory colour is scarlet, or that colour which the blood has when in the arteries, one would from hence conclude, either that the arteries were principally dilated, or, at least, if the veins are equally distended, that the blood undergoes no change in such inflammation in its passage from the arteries into the veins, which I think (says Mr. Hunter) most probably the case; and th is may arise f rom the quickness of its passage through those vessels." When a part cannot be restored to health, after injury, by in- flammation alone, or by adhesion, then suppura- tion, as a preparatory step to the formation of granulations, and the consequent restoration of the part, takes place. The vessels are nearly in the same state as in inflammation ; but they are more quiescent, and have acquired a new mode of action. (Hunter.) With respect to Mr. Hunter’s theory, which has deservedly had vast influence in regulating the judgment of professional men in this country on the nature of the process, called inflammation, it cannot be received in the present state of know- ledge, without some limitation. The hypothesis, that the blood vessels possess an active power of dilatation, independently' of their elasticity, as Dr. Hastings observes, must as yet be regarded, as devoid of proof, and therefore should not be assumed, as a basis, on which any theory of in- flammation is founded. (On Inflammation of the Mucous Membrane of the Lungs, Sec. p. 70.) And, as another intelligent writer remarks, how different would have been Mr. Hunter’s in- ferences, if, instead of trusting to the unassisted eye, he had viewed the inflamed vessels through the microscope. He would then have seen the womb are enlarged and a greater quantity ol blood is sent into them ; yet this organ is not in-, flamed. The carotids are in a similar state during the growth of the stag’s horn; but no inflamma4 tiori exists. If, then the proximate cause of in-4 flammation is to be called an increased action o| the vessels, we must first be informed not only; what is meant by' the term, but, what particular!! vessels are spoken of, whether the arterial trunks^ branches, or capillaries? Because, if the phrasa is intended to signify increased alternate ex- blood moving, and found, that, “ instead of its passage being quickened in the inflamed vessels, it is uniformly rendered slower in proportion to the degree of inflammation, and, in the most inflamed parts, stands still altogether." ( On the Vital Functions, p. 288, Ed. 2.) And, in another part of his writings, Dr. Philip has en- deavoured to prove, from several facts respect- ing the colour of the blood, that within certain limits, the accumulation of th is flu id in the de- bilitated vessels of the inflamed part necessarily causes the blood to retain the florid colour. (On Fevers, Part 2, Tntrod.) In modern times, the vague, but convenient expression, increased action of the vessels, has been very generally used as an adequate explana- tion of the proximate cause of inflammation. The doctrine, it is said, derives support from a review of the several exciting causes of the affection, which, being in general of an irritating nature, must, when applied to any living, or sensible parts, occasion such increased action of the vessels; while the method of cure also tends to confirm the opinion. But, before one can judo-e, whether this doctrine is correct, and sup- ported by facts and observation, it is necessary to understand precisely' what is implied by' in- creased action of vessels; for it is not every affection of the vessels, capable of being thus denominated, which will ol itself constitute in- flammation. In gestation, the arteries ol the H pansions and contractions of all the arteries oq the inflamed part, it is an hypothesis entirely de-ji stitute of foundation. If it be meant to denote! an increased velocity of the motion of the blood| in the part affected, the doctrine is rather con-: tradieted, than confirmed, by the latest and most carefully instituted microscopical experiments.^ But, if the expression only' refers to the dilated : state of the capillaries, the throbbing of the arteries leading to the seat of inflammation, the effusion of lymph, &c. less fault can be found with the language, though yet requiring much further ex- planation ere it can communicate any very' pre- cise information. “ There are (says a learned professor) two hy- potheses, which at present divide the opinions of pathologists, respecting the state of the capillary- vessels affected with inflammation. According to the first of these hy'potheses, the inflamed vessels are in a state of increased action ; ac- cording to the second, they act with less force, than the trunks, from which they are derived.” (See Thomson on Inflammation, p. 64.) The first of these opinions, according to Dr Thomson, was suggested by the views, which Stahl took of the animal oeoonomy, and his ideas respecting the tonic, or vital action of the ca- pillary- vessels. The doctrine, however, was more particularly insisted upon by his disciples and followers, especially, Dr. Gorier, who in one place expressly states; “ that the proximate < cause of inflammation consists in an increased vital action of some particular artery, or arteries, by which the blood is propelled with greater force, than usual, into the communicating lymphatic and colourless vessels.” (See his Compendium Mcdichwe and Chirurgia Rcpurgata.) The doctrine, which supposes the action of the inflamed vessels to be diminished, or to be pro- portionably less, than that of the trunk, or trunks, from which they' are derived, was, as far as Dr. Thomson can learn, first stated by Yacca, an Italian physician, in a small treatise on in- flammation, published at Florence in 17G5, en- titled, “ Liber dc Inflammationis Morbosir, qua in humana corporeflt naturli, can sis, effcctihur, ct curatione." For an account of the arguments, with which Vacca supports his hy-pothesis, my limits oblige me to refer to the work of Dr. Thomson. (P. G8, $c.) As this gentleman has observed, there arc certain points, in which the two doctrines .agree, as well as in which they differ. “ The advocates for each hypothesis agree in admitting, 1st, that inflammation has its scat in the capillary vessels; and 2ndly, that the redness in inflammation is owing to an unusual quantity of blood in the vessels of the inflamed part, and consequently that the capillary arteries arc much