CALX. 2G 7 i hich have recently adhered; and it is only hen there is a want of continuity in the vessels, I r when a want of energetic action incapacitates I iem from renewing their secretion, that callus imperfectly formed. This is the reason, why scorbutic constitutions, in patients infected I ith syphilis, in pregnancy, in fever, or in any eat disorder of the system, or while the wound a compound fracture is open, no callus is 1 -Derated. (John Bell's Principles of Surgery, 1. •/. 1, p. 500, 501. How far some of the [ ter statement is correct, or not, will be seen j the article Fractures. j ; For some time, the secretion of earthy matter | imperfect; the young bone is soft, flexible, | d of an organization suited for all the pur- I *es of bone; but, hitherto delicate and uncon- ! med; not a mere concrete, like a crystalliza- i n of a salt, which, if interrupted in the Innent of forming, will never form ; not liable be discomposed by a slight accident, nor to entirely destroyed by being even roughly j rved, or shaken. Incipient callus is soft, i shy, and yielding; it is ligamentous in its I asistenee, so that it is not very easily injured; $1 i, in its organization, it is so perfect, that \ en it is hurt, or the bony secretion inter- , j jted, the breach soon heals, just as soft parts lerc, and thus the callus becomes again entire, t 1 the process is immediately renewed, j 1 In consequence of the above circumstances, ■ it limb be broken a second time, when the first \ eture is nearly cured, the bone unites more . j ilv, than after the first accident; and Mr. J. 11 even asserts, that when it is broken a third, !| ' 1 a fourth time, the union is still quicker. In j ; se cases, the limb yields, it bends under the :| g ght of the body, which it cannot support; i! , without any snapping or splintering of the jc e, and, generally, without any over-shooting the ends of the part, and without any crepita- 11.1. Jallus is found to be more vascular, than the bone. Mr. John Bell mentions an instance a bone, which had been broken twelve years, >re he injected it, yet the callus was rendered rularly red. When a recently formed callus roken, many of its vessels are ruptured, but le are only elongated, and it rarely happens, ; its whole substance is torn. It is easy to ceive, how readily the continuity of the ves- will be renewed in a broken callus, when we ect on its great vascularity ; and the vigorous ulation, excited by the accident in vessels [iady accustomed to the secretion of bone. ‘:se reasons shew, why a broken, or bent js, is more speedily united, than a fractured •Vhen bones granulate, says Mr. Wilson, the mlations at first appear exactly similar to « of the soft parts, and, as in the soft parts, : place to restore any loss, which the bones have suffered. This process is very similar hat of the first formation of bone. In the 1, membrane was first formed; and here also, he process of restoration, the granulations ige into membrane, and then into bone. In ndricnl bones, the granulations first produce a 'ics of cartilage, and this is afterwards con- 'd into bone. Thus, in the restoration of nature is guided by the same laws, which prevail m its first formation. If the granulations, thrown out on the surface of a bone, be viewed in a microscope, they appear to form a number of small points, like villi, the bases of which first become similar to cartilage, and then to bone. “ The preparations from the surface of granula- ting stumps, shew the extreme delicacy of the first bony threads, and also their mode of uniting laterally with each other.” (J. Wil- sou’s Lectures on the Structure, Physiology, and Discuses of the Bones, Sfc. />. 197, Sun. Loud. 1S20.) And, in another place, he repeats, “ I have examined several skulls on the death of the per- sons, at different periods, from days to years after pieces of bone had been removed, and be- fore the vacancies had been completely filled up; but, I never could in any of them discover the least appearance of cartilage.” A membrane here always precedes the formation of bone, (p. 210.) For additional observations on callus, see Fracture. N. M. Muller, De Callo Ossium; 4to. Norimb. 1707 ; Duliumel in Mem. dc l’Acad. Royale des Sciences an. 1741, p. 92, r.t 222; Boehmer, De Callo Ossium e rubia tinctorum radicis pastuinfecturum, 4to. Lips. 1752; Doth- leef, Diss. exhibens Ossium Calli generationem ct naturam per fracta in animalibus rubice radice pastis ossa demonstratam, 4to, Goett. 1753; A. Marrigues, sur la Formation du Cal. Paris, 1/83. A. M‘Donald, De Necrosi, Sjc. Edin. 1799. The works of Troja, David, Blumenbach, and Koehler, as specified at the conclusion of the article Necrosis. J. IFilson, Lectures on the Structure, Physiology, and Diseases of the Bones, p. 208, 8 vo. fyc. Load. 1820. CALOMEL. (Submuriate of mercury; hydrargyri submurias, L. P.) Its extensive utility, in numerous surgical diseases, will be conspicuous in a large proportion of the articles in this work. When prescribed, as an alterative, the common dose is a grain once or twice a day; when ordered as a purgative, from three to eight grains may be given ; and when directed, with the view of exciting salivation, one or two grains, conjoined with opium, are usually administered night and morning. This medicine, combined with opium, is frequently given, for the relief of what is usually termed spasmodic stricture, which is an attendant on severe cases of gonorrhoea. CALX CUM POTASS A. This is a strong kind of caustic, chiefly used for making the eschars, when iss’ues are formed in cases of dis- eased vertebrae,white swellings, morbid hip-joints, &c. (See Vertebra’.) This caustic is also some- times used, though not so often as it was former- ly, for opening buboes and other abscesses. Some are in the habit of making it into a paste with soft soap ; they cover the part affected with ad- hesive plaster, in which there is a hole of the size of the eschar intended to be made; and into this aperture they press the paste till it touches the skin. A bandage is then applied to secure the caustic substance in its situation, till the in- tended effect is produced. The action of calx cum potassa, in this way. however, is more inert and tedious, andj perhaps, on this account, more painful. Hence, many ol the best modern surgeons never adopt this me- thod; but, after covering the surrounding pails with sticking plaster, rub the caustic on the