277 CANCER. feyrilhe, Dins, on Cancerous Diseases, translated ■om the Latin, with Notes, Svu. Loud. 1777. J. ndree Observations upon aTreatise on the Virtues 'Hemlock, in the Cure of Cancers, written by Dr. torck, «J Vienna, wherein the Doctor’s Cases in fa- ir if th it vegetable are candidly examined, and ■need insufficient in divers instances; with some ictical remarks on Cancer in general, 5fc. 8 vo. md. 1761. P. J. F. De Rameux de Seirrho Cancro, Oeudergliern, 1788. T. Clcrhe, >s. de Cancro, Svo. Edinb. 1784. R. Hamilton, Serophulous Affections, with Remarks im Scir- is, fc., Svo. Lund. 17J) I. F. Kentish, Cases of ncer; with Obs. on the Use iff Carbonate iff Lime, . Newcastle, 1802. C. T. Johnson, a P loc- al Essay on Cancer, Svo. Loud. 1810. Fearon Cancers, with an Account of u new and suc- sff'al method if operating, particularly in C uncers 'he Breast, or Testicle, Svo. Loud. 1786. B. I on Ulcers. Adams on Cancerous Breasts, Svo. ■rid. 1801; and on Morbid Poisons, 2d Ed. 07. Medical Museum, Vol. 1. Mtd. Trans. .1. Gooch’s Bled. Observations, Vol. 3. L’En- lopedie Meihodique, Partie Chirurgicute. Arti- Cancer, in Rees’s Cyclopaedia. Practical Obser- ions on Cancer, hyj. Howard, Svo. Lond. 1811. •moire renffermunt quetques Vties Gendralcs sur le ncer, in CEuvres Chirurgicales de Desault par that, Tom. 3, p. 406,§c. Richerand’s Noso- phie Chirurgicale, Tom. 1, p. 377, 8fc. Edit. 2. nbc’s Inquiry into the origin and cure of stilutionul Diseases, Svo. Lond. 1805, and iorts of the Effects off' a peculiar Regimen in ctrous Complaints, Svo. Lond. 1815. BailUe's 'bid Anatomy off' some of the most important is of the Human Body. The Queues of (he etyff'or investigating the. Nature and Cure if cer may be seen in the Edinb. Med. and Sur- d Journal, Vol. 2, p. 382, fyc. Diet, ties iwet Med. art. Cancer. Alibert, Nosnl. No- lle, T. 1, fol. Paris, 1817. Consult also rdrop on Fungus Hwmutodes, in which may be an interesting comparative view of this last ;t ion and Cancer. Denmans Observations on Cure of Cancer, Svo, Lond. 1810; and Car- tel’s Essay on the Effects off Carbonate and r preparations off Iron upon Cancers; with an dry into the Nature off’that and other Diseases, hich it bears a relation, 2d Ed. 8vo. Dublin, ). W. Thomas, Commentaries on the Treat- of Scirrhi and Cancer, 8vo. Lond. 1805, S. Young, Inquiry into the Nature, fc. uncct, Svo. Lond. 1805. Minutes of Cuses oncer and Cancerous tendency, Svo. Lond. ;; also further Reports of Cases treated by the mode of pressure, Svo. Lrmd. 1818. J. Pear- Practical Obs. on Cancerous Complaints; with :count iff some Diseases, which have been con- led with Cancer; also Critical Remarks on of the Operations performed in Cancerous , Svo. Lond. 1793. Abcrnethy’s Surgical is, Vol. 2, Lond. 1811. J. Rodman, A Pruc- Ejplanution of Cancer in the Breast, 8vo. . 1815. Sir E. Home, Obs. on Cancer, Svo. . 1805. VNCER SCROTI. CHIMNEY- ■EPER’S CANCER. (See Scrotum.), V. NCRUM ORIS. A deep, foul, irregu- Jtid ulcer, with jigged edges, which appears the inside ot the lips and cheeks, and is ded with a copious How of offensive saliva. i I According to Mr. Pearson, this disease is seldom seen in adults; but, most commonly, in children from the age of eighteen months to that of six, or seven years, l'he gums, as well as the lips and cheeks, are sometimes affected, in which cir- cumstance, the teeth are generally carious and loose. The ulceration is occasionally attended with abscesses, which burst either through the cheek, lip, or just below the jaw. Exfoliations are not unfrequent, and, when the disease is neg- lected, extensive sloughing sometimes happens. Living in a marshy situation; unwholesome food; and inattention to cleanliness; are sus- pected to be conducive to this disorder. The causes of the affliction seem not to he under- stood ; but it is remarked, that the disease pre- vails most in houses, where children are crowded together. It is uncertain, whether the complaint is contagious. Though children are the usual subjects of this disease, grown-up persons do not always escape its attacks. The treatment recommended consists, in ex- tracting diseased teeth and loose pieces of bone; di- recting a milk vegetable diet, with a prudent quan- tity of fermented liquors ; and prescribing bark, sarsaparilla, and elm hark, with sulphuric acid. The best external applications are, diluted mineral acids ; burnt alum ; the decoctum cin- chonas, with sulphate of zinc ; tincture of myrrh ; lime-water, with spirit of wine, &c. (See Pear- son’s Principles of Surgery, Edit. 2, p. 287 ) CANTHA'RIDES. ( Lyttw.) Spanish, or French flies, with which the common blister- ing plaster is made. In surgery, they are also prescribed in incontinence ot urine, gleets, &c. The tincture is sometimes used as a liniment for stimulating parts. CAPELIN A. (from capeline, a woman’s hat, or bandage, French ) A double-headed roller, above twenty-four feet long, and four inches broad. The middle is applied to the oc- ciput, and, after two or three circular rounds, the rollers intersect each other upon the forehead and occiput; then one roller being reflected over the vertex to the forehead, the other is continued in a circular track. T hey next cross each other upon the forehead, alter which the first head is carried hack obliquely towards the occiput, and reflected by the side of the other. The last is continued in a circular direction ; hut the first is brought again over the sagittal suture, backward and forward, and so continued, till the whole head is covered. By the ancients, this bandage was sometimes applied in cases of hydrocephalus : it has no ad- vantage, however, and is now hardly ever used. CAPILLARY FI-SURE. A very minute crack in the skull. The term came into use from the resemblance of such a fracture to a hair.. CAPISTllUM. (See Bandage.) CARBUNCLE. (from carbe, a burning coal.) Anthrax. This is a very common sym- ptom in the plague; hut comes on also sometimes as a primary disease. The first symptoms are great heat and violent pain in some part of the body, on which arises a kind of pimple, attended with great itchingbelow which a circumscribed, hut very deep-seated, and extremely hard tumor may he felt with the fingers. This tumor soon assumes a dark red, or purple colour, about the