L DISEASE. 1162 VENEREA ployed unmercifully, and even when employed in moderation, and the patient exposes himself to damp and cold, tends to promote the fre- quency of nodes, as a sequel of the venereal dis- ease, though as the long and abundant use of the same mineral does not cause the same conse- quence after other complaints, and venereal ul- cers, treated altogether without mercury, rarely lead to nodes, it would seem as if these swellings were the product of the combined action of syphi- lis and mercury together. The infrequency of nodes in the strictly non-mercurial practice, is one of the most important facts yet established in its favour, and it is curious to find from some quotations, made by Dr. Hennen, that it was well known in former days. Fallopius in bis 96th chap. De Ossium Corrupiione, speaking of the loss of the bones of the nose and palate, says, “ et sciatis quod non in omni inveterato gallico hoc. fit, sed tantum in Mis, in quibus inunctio facta est cum hydrargyro.” And, Fernelius in speaking of the injurious effects of mercury, ob- serves, “ recidiva raro similis est radiei, neque iisdem symptomatis exercet, sed fere distillatione, arthritide tophis, vel ossium carie.” (Aphrodi- siacus, Vol. 3, p. 146.) And Palmarius, in ' considering the affection of the bones, as Dr. Hennen has noticed, uses the following remark- able words; “ sed hoc iis duntaxat contingit, qui olim a lue venerea hydrargyrosi vindicati putarentur, non qui decocto guaiacino et alexi- pharmaco curati fuissent.” (Dc Morb. Conta- giosis, Cap. 7, lib. 2, p. 124; Parisiis, 1578.) Dr. Hennen expresses his own conviction, in which I entirely agree, that the carious affections of the bones, which are so common in persons treated by long mercurial courses, proceed, not from the disease, but from the remedy rapidly and irregularly thrown in while periostitis exists; and, he has not seen a single case of carious bone in the military hospitals, since the non-mercurial treatment was adopted, except where mercury had formerly been used. (On Military Sur- gery, Ed. 2, p. 505, 506.) Nor will the results of modern experience and inquiries, made on a very extensive and impar- tial scale, allow us to consider the venereal dis- ease as regularly and unavoidably leading to any secondary symptoms, even though no medicine at all be employed for their prevention. This is fully exemplified in the official reports of the army hospitals. The particulars of 5000 cases, spoken of by Sir James M'Grigor and Dr. Franklin, lead to the opinion, that “ the fre- quency or rarity of secondary symptoms would seem to depend on circumstances, not yet suf- ficiently understood, or explained, although the following fact would tend to the belief, that either the constitutions of the men, or the mode of conducting the treatment without mercury, are the causes, that possess the greatest influence in their production. In one regiment 4 secon- dary cases, out of 24, treated without mercury supervened.” In another regiment, 68 cases were treated without mercury, all bearing marks of true venereal disease (and 28 of them especi- ally selected for their decided characters of chancre), yet no secondary symptoms of any i * . i i i . t net, nftpr fit o confirms another fact, that no peculiar secondary symptoms follow peculiar primary sores; a con- clusion which is directly adverse to Mr. Car- michael's opinions, of which I have taken more notice in another work. (See First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vol. 1, Ed. 4.) According to Mr. Hunter, the time, neces- sary for the appearance, or production of the local effects, in parts most susceptible of the dis- ease, after the virus has passed into the constitu- tion, is generally about six weeks; but, in manv eases, the period is much longer; while, in other instances, it is shorter. Sometimes, the local effects make their appearance within a fortnight after the possibility of absorption. The effects, on other parts of the body, which are less susceptible of the venereal irritation, or slower in their action, says Mr. Hunter, are much later in making their appearance. And when the first and second order of parts are both contaminated, the effects, generally, do not be- gin to appear in the latter, till after a consider- able time, and sometimes, not till those affecting the former parts have been cured. Mr. Hunter, however, refers to instances, in which the periosteum, or bone, was affected be- fore any of the first order of parts ; but, lie was uncertain, whether the skin, or throat, would afterwards have become diseased, as the disorder was not allowed to go on. Venereal Eruptions. The whole ten or of various facts, specified in the foregoing columns, tends to prove, that what is usually called the venereal disease, is in reality several diseases, mo- dified also by constitution, climate, regimen, and mode of treatment. And, hence, perhaps, the chief source of all the perplexity and uncertain- ty, which are yet so manifest, as full}' to justify the doubt, sometimes entertained, whether any disease, corresponding to the former notions of syphilis, really exists. Were any proof of the truth of this reflection needed, in addition to the many other proofs of it already premised, the subject of venereal eruptions would at once fur- nish it; for, here no kind of regularity can be traced, either in the appearances or. the skin abs- tractedly considered, nor in the connexion be- tween certain kinds of primary ulcers and par- ticular forms of cutaneous disease. Nay, as I have noticed in the preceding pages, sometimes, in consequence of a primary venereal sore, dif- ferent kinds of eruptions form together, or suc- cessively on one individual; and, as far as one can judge by the eye, exactly the same kind of chancre may produce very different breakings out in different persons, even though treated on precisely the same plan. These circumstances are truly confusing. In Mr. Rose’s paper, however, there is a partial confirmation of one part of Mr. Carmichael’s theory, viz. the fre- quency of papular eruptions after simple primary ulcers, or superficial sores, which readily heal. According to the latter gentleman, this form of eruption may also follow gonorrhoea, and is ge- nerally preceded by fever, and ends in desqua- mation. Whatever may be the degree of truth, respecting the relation between this kind of eruption and the alleged primary complaints, rpr'nmmpnrlprl liv Mr. Carmichael.