209 ARTERIES. the upper third of the forearm, a finger is to be put on the insertion of the tendon of the biceps. A little below this insertion, an incision, about two inches and a half in length, is to be made in the integuments, in the oblique direction, denoted bv the inner edge of the supinator radii longus. The subjacent fhscia is then to be divided, and the inner edge of the supinator muscle drawn a little from the outer side of the arm: in the sparse, between that muscle and the flexor carpi radialis, the radial artery immediately presents itself, passing over the tendon of the pronator radii teres, and the flexor longus poljicis, and it then runs down between the latter named tendon and the flexor carpi radialis. (See Cam- per’s Ana/. Demons:. Palhol. Li1'. 1, Tab. 1, rig. 2. ) A branch of the musculo-spiral nerve lies on the radial side of the artery. At the wrist, the radial artery may be taken up by making an incision a little way from the radial margin of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Here the artery is covered by a fascia, over which a small branch of the external cutaneous nerve runs; but the vessel is now unaccompanied with the musculo-spiral nerve, which quits it, and passes under the supinator radii longus, a little below the middle of the forearm. After the radial artery leaves the fore part of the wrist, it may be taken up by making an inci- s’on “ on the outside of the insertion of the ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis, and the inside of the extensor tertii internodii pollicis Betwixt these tendons, the artery lies very deep, and over it is the extreme branch of the muscular spiral nerve. We find the artery going close to the notch, betwixt the os scaphoides and trapezium.” (C. Bell, Op. Surgery, V. 2, p. 373.) For bringing into view the ulnar artery at the upper third of the forearm, the situation and breadth of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle must ■first be ascertained. An incision is then to be made from above downwards, beginning two inches below the inner condyle of the humerus, and following the course of the inner margin of the above muscle to the extent of two inches and a half. The fascia is then to be divided; the flexor carpi ulnaris is to be drawn a little away from the flexor digitorum sublimis. In this opening, rather under the margin of the latter muscle, the ulnar artery will be felt with the finger, continuing its course over the flexor pro- fundus. The ulnar nerve is situated on the ulnar side of the artery. Below the middle of the forearm, the ulnar artery is more superficial, and may easily be taken up by making an incision upon the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris, between the ten- don of which muscle, and that of the flexor pro- fundus digitorum, the vessel is situated. The artery, however, will not be reached until a thin aponeurosis under the fascia of the forearm has been divided. "The nerve is rather more under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, than the artery. When the ulnar artery arises from the rachial above the elbow, it runs above the fascia, ,1nr ’* ensi>y taken up at any part of its course. Inc anterior tibial artery passes forward be- ween the bones of the leg, about on inch below ie upper head ol the fibula. In order to take J,P c vessel in this situation, a free cut must be made through the fnc-cia, cxter.ded between the heads of the tibia and fibula. The inci ion is then to be continued more deeply at the edge of the peronseus longus, following the fascia be- tween this muscle and the origin of the extensor digitorum communis. The artery will be met with on the interosseous ligament."( C. Bell, V. 2, p.376.) In order to lay bare the anterior tibial artery, a little above the middle of the leg, the finger "is to be passed along the outer side of the spine of the tibia, and the breadth of the tibialis anticus muscle is to be ascertained. Along the outer margin of this muscle, an incision is to be made through the integuments and fascia, two inches and a half in length. The knife is then to be introduced between the outer margin of the tibi- alis anticus muscle, and the extensor longus of the great toe. In this space, at the depth of about an inch, the anterior tibial artery is situated. (See Haller's Iran. Anal. Fuse 5, Tab. 4.) Cutting down to this artery, near the tarsus, where the vessel passes out between the tendons of the tibi- alis anticus and extensor muscle of the toes, is an easy operation. 'l'he laying bare of the posterior tibial artery, behind the malleolus interims, is also quite easy: an incision, about two inches long, is to be made between the internal malleolus, and the tendo Achillis, down to the posterior surface of the tu- berosity of the tibia. At this depth, the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, and that cf the flexor communis digitorum pedis, run, as in a furrow. Along with these two tendons, but a little nearer to the os calcis, the posterior tibial artery descends to the sole of the foot. On the contrary, the depth of the posterior tibial artery at the middle, or in the upper third of the leg, makes it very difficult to take up the vessel in these situations. And the difficulties are increased by the spasmodic contractions of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. When necessary, however, the artery may be exposed and tied above and below the wound in it, by proceeding as follows : an incision is to be made, three or four inches in length, along the inner side of the crest of the tibia, and the origins of the soleus muscle are to be detached from it to the same extent, and reflected. Under the so- leus muscle is found the apopetposis, which se- parates the muscles of the calf of the leg into superficial and deep seated. When this fascia has also been divided, the posterior tibial artery may- be seen, or felt deeply situated, running on the tibialis posticus and flexor muscle of the toes. (See Haller, Iran. Anal. Fuse. 5, Tab. 5.) In taking up the axillary artery, when it is wounded, Scarpa believes, that nothing tends more to embarrass the surgeon, than an injudi- cious smallness of the first incision through the skin and such other parts ns conceal the wound in the artery. An assistant must compress the vessel, from above the clavicle, as it passes over the first rib. When the weapon has penetrated, from below upward, directly into the axilla, the surgeon is to make a free dilatation of the wound upon a director, or his finger. This must be done to a sufficient height to expose n consider- able portion of the artery, and the precise situa- tion of the wound in it. When the weapon . as pierced obliquely, ci