CATARACT. 310 statements to what happens to certain cataracts, on which depression, or reclamation, strictly so called, had been practised, I should have been disposed to accede to the general assertion, re- specting the grdat length of time, which a firm, or tough capsular cataract remains in the vitre- ous humor undissolved, and unabsorbed. But, it he mean, that the same thing is generally the case with cataracts broken piecemeal, and placed in the aqueous humor, we know, that sucii a representation is contradicted by the experience of an infinite number of the highest authorities in surgery. Nay, notwithstanding the case ad- duced of a bony lens having remained in the aqueous humor twenty-six years, I am disposed to think, that Beer himself does not intend to question the absorption of the fragments of cata- racts in the aqueous humor, particularly as at p. 357, B. 2, he sanctions pushing the fragments of semi-firm cataracts through the pupil into the anterior chamber, where, he confesses, that they are soon absorbed. Beer thinks, that, in general, depression and reclination are indicated only in eases, in which extraction is absolutely impracticable, or attended with too great difficulty, as will be better under- stood when this operation is considered. As examples of this kind, Beer specifies an extensive adhesion of the iris to the cornea; a very flat cornea, and, of course, so small an anterior cham- ber, that an incision of proper size in the cornea cannot be made; a broad arcus senilis; an ha- bitually contracted pupil (incapable of being arti- ficially dilated;) an eye much sunk in the orbit, with a small fissure between the eye-lids ; eyes affected with incessant convulsive motions; a partial adhesion of the cataract to the uvea; un- appeasable timidity in the patient; and an im- possibility of managing him during and after the operation, in consequence of his childhood or stupidity. With regard to the question, whether depres- sion, or reclination, should be preferred, Beer is of opinion, that the first method is indicated only when the dimensions of the cataract are small, and consequently, when there is room enough for it to be placed below the pupil, without the ciliary processes being torn from the annulus ciliaris. Such cases are the dry-husked, capsulo-lenticular cataract, (the primary membranous cataract, of Scarpa,) when perfectly free from adhesions to the uvei; the true lenticular seco idary cataract, produced by the small but firm fragments of the lens having been left, or risen again; and the genuine secondary membranous, or capsular cata- ract. On the other hand, reclination is to be preferred, when, together with the above objec- tions to extraction, the surgeon has to deal with a fully formed, very hard lenticular, or capsulo- lenticular cataract; or with a case of the latter kind, complicated with partial adhesions to the uvea ; or when the case is a secondary capsular ciiaract, similarly circumstanced; a secondary cilarac-t of lymph; %gypsum-cataract; or there is reason to apprehend a considerable tendency in the blood-vessels of the interior of the eye to become varicose. ( Lthrc von den A ugenkr. B. 2, p. 3G5.) The manner of operating with the needle upon the congenital cataracts of children, will he here- after explained. EXTRACTION OF TJJE CATARACT. As soon as it was fully proved, that the true cataract was an opacity of the crystalline lens; that the loss of sight would not be occasioned by the removal of this body; that the cornea might be divided without danger; and that when the aqueous humor had been discharged, it would be quickly regenerated; the mode of cure, by ex- tracting the cataract out of the eye, naturally presented itself. (Wenzel.) Freytag first made an attempt to extract the cataract, about the close of the 17th century. After him, Lotterius of Turin performed this operation, a good description of which was first given by Daviel; and the ingenuity and industry of Wenzel afterwards brought this mode of ope- rating considerably nearer to perfection. (Bram- billa, Instrumentarium Cliir. Austriucum, 1782, p. 71.) With the valuable instructions, which Ware and Beer have still more recently furnished, the extraction of the cataract may now be regarded as brought to the highest state of improvement. According to Beer, the extraction of the cata- ract usually admits of division into three stages, the first of which, as in depression and reclina- tion, is the most important, because, unless it be performed exactly as it ought to be, the opera- tion will be very liable to fail, and it is exceed- ingly difficult to make amends for any fault com- mitted in this early part of the proceedings. The first stage consists in making an effectual open- ing in the cornea with a suitable knife. The second, in dividing the anterior layer of the cap- sule, which, says Beer, should not be merely punctured, or itorn with a bluntisli instrument, but cut .with a sharp two-edged lance-pointed needle, and, as much as possible, annihilated. In the third stage, the expulsion of the cataract from the eye is effected either by the well regu- lated action of the eye-ball itself, or by the assistance of art. But, as Beer remarks, the}’ ; who have learned the manner of effectually and skilfully cutting the cornea, will frequently have the pleasure to find the two last stages bene- ficially converted into one, and the operation in general soon and expeditiously completed.) 1 on den Aupenkr. B. 2, p. 366.) The knives, used by Richter, Wenzel, Ware, and Beer, are all of them more or less different; j but, they agree in the common quality of com- pletely filling up the wound, as it is extended, so that none of the vitreous humor can escape be- fore the division of the cornea is finished. Wenzel’s knife resembles the common lancet employed in bleeding, excepting that its blade is : a little longer, and not quite so broad. Its edges . are straight, and the blade is an inch and a half (eighteen lines) long, and a quarter of an inch (? (three lines) broad, in the widest part of it, which ; is at the base. From this part it gradually be- comes narrower towards the point; so that this breadth of a quarter of an inch extends only to the space of about one-third of an inch from the the base; and, for the space of half an inch from the point, it is no more than one-eighth of an inph broad. The knife, employed by the late Mr. Ware, is, in regard to its dimensions, not unlike ihe in- strument employed by Wenzel. The principal