756 LACHRYMAL ORGANS. discharge was not much discoloured. “ The first of these, viz. the passage of a small probe through the puncta, (says Mr. Pott) has a plau- sible appearance, but will, upon trial, be found very unequal to the task assigned ; the very small size of it, its necessary flexibility, and the very little resistance it is capable of making, are mani- fest deficiencies in the instrument; the quick sensation in the lining of the sac and duct, and its diseased state, are great objections on the side of the parts, supposing that it was capable of answering any valuable end, which it most certainly is not.” (Pott.) It must be at once obvious, that Anel’s in- struments were devised with the view of avoid- ing a puncture in the lachrymal sac; but the principle has been strongly objected to by Beer, there being no comparison between the incon- veniences of a small opening made in the sac, and the injury done to the lachrymal puncta and canals by the long and repeated introduction of instruments through them, whereby their func- tions are likely to be for ever ruined, of which Beer has seen some sad examples. (Lehre, $c. B. 2, p. 16'9.) The next practice, deserving notice, is that of Laforest, who used to introduce into the ter- mination of the nasal duct in the nostril a probe, with which he cleared away the obstruction in the passage. He also introduced into the same orifice a curved tube, which was left in the part three or four months, for the purpose of employ- ing injections. The method, however, was found not only troublesome and difficult, on account of the anatomical varieties, to which the termina- tion of the nasal canal was liable, but also on ac- count of the treatment, when practised, being subject to frequent failures. Following up the principles of Anel, another French surgeon, Mejean, dilated the nasal duct with a seton, which was drawn up into the la- chrymal sac by means of a thread first introduced from the upper punctum lachryniale. But, it was soon discovered, that what was gained on one side, was lost on the other; the lodgment of the thread in the lachrymal duct for several months, and the irritation of its orifice in changing the seton every day, not only causing inflammation of the punctum lachrymale, but even such ulcer- ation and cicatrices, as sometimes destroyed the functions of the parts. J. L. Petit, sensible of the inconveniences of Mejean’s practice, and disgusted with the barba- rous imitation of the ancients in cauterizing the fistula, sac, and os unguis, conceived that, instead of these plans, or that of perforating the os un- guis, as proposed by Woolhouse, it would be better to endeavour to restore the natural pas- sage, by removing the obstruction in the nasal duct, which obstruction Petit regarded as the cause of the disease. His method consisted in opening the lachrymal sac with a small bistoury, introducing through the wound, sac, and nasal duct a probe, down into the nostiil, and then using bougies for the dilatation of the passage. This method may be said to be the model of that, which has been most extensively followed even down to the present time. Pcllier and M atlien recommended introducing a metallic tube’ down the ductus nasalis, and leaving it for a time in that situation, with a view of preventing the duct from closing again; and the use of a can- nula is even now preferred by Dupuytren, the greatest surgeon of France. The desire of avoiding any puncture of the sac has influenced many practitioners besides Anel, and given rise to various ingenious inven- tions. , Thus, in 1780, Sir William Blizard proposed, instead of injecting water, to introduce quicksilver through a small pipe, communicating with a long tube full of this fluid. The specific gravity of the quicksilver, when the sac was dis- tended with it, he believed, would have more power, than water propelled through a syringe, to remove the lachrymal obstruction. The late Mr. Ware, after trying Sir William Blizard's plan, gave the preference to AntTs syringe, with which he generally injected warm water, through the lower punctum lachrymale, into the lachrymal sac, and put a finger over the superior punctum to prevent the fluid from escaping through it. With his finger, he also occasionally compressed the lachrymal sac, in order to assist in propelling the water down into the nose. Mr. Ware sometimes used the injec- tion thrice a day, though, in general, much less frequently. (See Ware on the Epifora.) “ I in general begin the treatment by inject- ing some warm water through the inferior punc- tum lachrymale, and I repeat the operation four or five days in succession. If, in this space of time, none of the water pass through the duct into the nose, and if the watering of the eye con- tinue as troublesome as it was before the injection was employed, I usually open the angular vein, or direct a leech to be applied near the lachrymal sac; adding here a caution, that the leech be not suffered to fix on either of the eyelids, lest it produce an extravasation of blood in the ad- jacent cells. About the same time that blood is 11 taken away in the neighbourhood of the eye, I usually vary the injection, and try the effects either of a weak vitriolic, or anodyne, lotion. In some instances, also, when I have found it im- possible, after several attempts, to inject any part of the liquid through the duct, I have introduced a golden probe, about the size of a bristle, through the superior punctum lachrymale, and, attending to the direction of the duct, have in- sinuated its extremity through the obstruction, and conveyed it fully'into the nose; immediately after which I have found, that a liquid, injected through the inferior punctum, has passed without any difficulty; and by repeating these operations, for a few successive days, I have at length established the freedom of the passage, and completed the cure. In other instances, I have recommended a strongly stimulating sternutatory to be snuffed up the nose, about an hour before the time of the patient’s going to rest, which, by exciting a large discharge from the Schneiderian membrane, has sometimes also greatly con- tributed to open the obstruction in the nasal duct. “ Cases occur very rarely which may not be relieved by some of the means above related.” (Ware's Additional Remark/; on the. Epi- phora.) When the discharge was fetid, Mr. Ware sometimes found, that a vitriolic lotion, injected into the sac, quickly corrected the quality of the matter.