HYDROCELE. 067 the plan, with some variations, one of which for the radical cure of hydroceles to an army- consisted in smearing the tents with irritating surgeon of his own name, who employed spirits substances. Dr. A. Monro senior devised the of wine. This produced a cure, but the inflam- tau ot- keeping a cannula in the tunica vagina- mation was so violent, that he afterwards tried lis • so as to bring on a cohesion of the parts, a milder injection, which consisted of wine, without suppuration. Fabricius ab Aquapen- However, Lambert, in his Oduvrcs Chir. pub- dente, however, has made allusion to some sur- lished at Marseilles, early in the seventeenth .rcoiis’ before his time, who used to keep the century, advised injecting a solution of subli- wound open a few days with a cannula. Mr. Pott mate in lime water, and he has related cases of tried the cannula, but found it very inconvenient, success. Mr. S. Sharp also made trial of spirit as its inflexibility hurt the testis whenever the pa- of wine, which cured the hydrocele, but not tient moved with inattention, and, consequently, without causing dangerous symptoms, and two lie preferred a tent, or bougie, though he speaks subsequent abscesses in the scrotum. (Opa- rt the plan as a very uncertain one. rations of Surgery.) Douglas, Le Dran, and <jf late, Baron Larrey, in consequence of hav- Pott, all disapprove of injections, in their works ; ing seen several instances, in which the sym- though Sir James Earle informs us, that the ptoms, following the use of an injection, were latter lived to alter his opinion on the subject, violent, and one case, in which a fatal peritonitis The violence of the inflammatory symptoms, was produced, has recommended, exciting the consequent to the first employment of injections necessary degree of inflammation by keeping a for the radical cure of hydroceles, arose from short piece of an elastic gum catheter in the the fluids used being too irritating. Sir James puncture, which instrument also serves after- Earle, at last, preferred wine for several reasons, wards to let any fluid escape from the tunica He found, that it had been used with success in vaginalis. (Mem. de Chir. Militairc, T. 3, France; its strength is never so great as to /;.°109, Ac.) This author, of course, speaks of render it Unsafe; and it may be readily weak- the plan as having fully answered his expecta- ened. This injection, in short, produces less tions; but, 1 much doubt whether it has any pain than any other mode of cure, does nothing particular superiority over several of the former nothing more than is intended, and is as certain methods of employing the tent; methods, which as any plan. the wisdom, arising from experience, has long “ I have commonly used (says Sir James since rejected. Earle) about two-thirds of wine to one-third of water ; if the parts appeared insensible, and no Scion pain at all was produced by the first quantity Was first mentioned by Guido di Cauliaco, in thrown in, I have withdrawn the syringe, and 1-198, as a means of curing the hydrocele. In added to the proportion of wine; on the con- modern times, Pott preferred it to every other trary, if the complaint was recent, and the parts method, if we except injection, of which, ac- irritable, I have increased the proportion of cording to Sir J. Earle, he expressed his appro- water, so that I have hitherto been principally bation before his decease. Mr. Pott found, that guided by the degree of sensation, which the the best mode of making the seton was as fol- patient has expressed. I have lately used pure lows. He employed three instruments: the first water mixed with wine, and found it answer as was a trocar, the cannula of which was about wej) as when astringents were added.” (P.103, one-fourth of an inch broad. The second was Treatise on the Hydrocele, Ed. (2.) In the what he called the seton-cannula, which was preface, the author says, that lie has long dis- made of silver, was just small enough to pass used the pipe with a stop-cock, which he once with ease through the cannula of the trocar, employed, on account of not being well able to and five inches long. The third instrument spare a hand, during the operation, to turn it, was a probe six inches and a half long, and its consequently being found awkward. A having at one end a fine steel trocar point, pipe, one end of which is made to fit into the and, at the other, an eye, which carried cannula of a trocar, the ether adapted to receive the seton. The seton consisted of so much the neck of an elastic bottle, with a valve, or white sewing silk, as would just pass easily ball, in the centre of the pipe to permit the eu- through the cannula, and yet fill it. The thick- trance, and prevent the exit, of the injection, ness of the seton. however, was not so great in will be found infinitely more convenient and the latter part of his practice. Having pierced useful. (Earle.) When the hydrocele is very the inferior and anterior part of the tumor with large, Sir James recommends simply letting out the trocar, withdrawn the perforator, and dis- the fluid, and waiting till the tumor acquires a charged the water, Mr. Pott used to pass the more moderate size before attempting the radi- I seton-cannula through that of the trocar, to the cal cure by injection. upper part of the tunica vaginalis, so as to be It appears from Sir James Earle’s interesting bit there. '1 he probe, armed with the seton, cases, that a cure may he accomplished in this was next conveyed through tbelatter cannula, manner, even when the tunica vaginalis is consi- and its point pushed through the upper part of durably thickened. The following is the cotn- the tunica vaginalis, and scrotum. The silk was mon mode of operating; the hydrocele is to be ihcn drawn through the cannula, until a suf- tapped with a trocar at its anterior and inferior hcWit quantity was brought out of the upper part, and, when the whole of the fluid is evacu- onfice. The two cannulae being withdrawn, the ated, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is to lie operation was finished. distended 10 its former dimensions with the above injection. This is to be allowed to remain in _ Injection. the part about five minutes, upon the average, h>r. Monro attributes the first use of injections after which it is to be discharged through the