.104-2 TOU ferior. The inferior piece is about four inches and n half long, and nearly two broad. Its under surface is somewhat concave, while its upper one is a little convex, and the ends are hollowed out. From its middle part rises a round eminence, about seven lines high, and eight and a half broad. The superior piece is almost the same as the inferior one, but rather shorter. The eminence, which ascends from its middle part, is six lines high, and ail inch and a halt in diameter. This eminence is hol- low within, and calculated to receive a wooden screw, the top of which is a sort of button for turning the screw. The grooves of Petit’s screw were about four, or five, and each of them four lines in diameter, in order that a half turn might produce the necessary effect. Lastly, all the pieces of the instrument were fastened together with an iron pin, which went through the middle of the two pieces of wood, and through the whole length of the screw. This iron pin was riveted under the inferior piece, and at the top of the button, in such a manner, however, that the screw was capable of turning on it, as on a pivot. In order to apply this tourniquet, the limb is to be surrounded with a double strap, about four finger-breadths wide, and made of chamois leather, which js the softest material that can be used. To one end of the strap a double little cushion is fastened, of the same length and breadth as the lower piece of the tourniquet. A narrow com- press,-or cylindrical pad, is also requisite, for the purpose of compressing the track of the vessels. This compress consists of a very firm roll of linen, covered with chamois leather. The ends of a piece of tape are sewed to the outer part of the' pad, and thus the tape leaves a passage for the leather strap. By this artifice, the pad can be moved to any situation on the strap, as the bulk of the limb may require. The mid- dle of the tape is to be fastened to the outside of the leather strap. The cylindrical compress, or pad, is to be put over the course of the vessels. The double cushion is to be placed on the opposite side of the member, while the leather strap is to surround the limb. All the different pieces of the apparatus are next to be retained by means of the tape, which is to be tied at the side of the cushion. The tourniquet is now to be put over the cushion, on that side of the limb which is furthest from the track of the large vessels, and is to be fastened in this situation with a double band, that has a hole in it for the reception of the upper part of the screw. , In order to make the proper compression, the screw is to be half turned round, from the right to the left. The upper piece of the tourniquet becoming now further from the lower one, the double hand draws the pad, and presses it against the vessels, so as to make the due degree of com- pression. The following are the advantages, attending the use of Petit’s tourniquet: 1. It compresses the lateral parts of the limb less, than the tour- niquet previously in use. 2. It requires the aid of no assistant, either to hold, tighten, or loosen it. 3. The operator is able of himself to stop the fjow of blood in the artery, by means of the screw. 4. When there is any danger of he- TRE morrhage after an operation, this kind of tourni- quet may be left on the limb, and, in case of the bleeding coming on, the patient, if no one he at hand, can tighten the instrument himself, as much as is necessary. 5. The constriction, which this tourniquet produces, does not create any danger of mortification, because it does not altogether stop the flow of blood through the collateral arteries. The tourniquet here described is certainly verv complex, when compared with that which is used by the best modern practitioners; hut, still it is the original of the latter, and both are construct- ed on the same principles. All the pieces of modern tourniquets are kept connected together, and instead of two pieces of wood, used by Petit, there is contrived a brass bridge, which is ca. pable of being elevated, or depressed, by means of a screw, made of the same metal. Over this bridge a very strong band proceeds, and by pass- ing under two little rollers, at each end of the bridge, it always remains connected with the in- strument. A convex firm pad is sewed to the band, and put immediately over the artery, where the instrument is applied. There are no cushions for the opposite side of the limb under the screw; hut a tlfick piece of leather, through which the band proceeds in two places, is always situated under the lower surface of the brass, and serves to prevent ^ny had effects of its pressure. It is usual also for the surgeon to fold some rag, and to put it in this situation, at the time of applying the instrument. (See Hemorrhage) The in- terruption of the circulation in parts of the body by the tourniquet, has been tried as a means of relieving diseases. (See G. Kellie, Ohs. on the1 Medical Effects of Compression by the Tourni- quet, 8vo. Edinl). 1797.) TRACHEA, Wounds of. See Throat. TRACHEOTOMY, (from rpaXna, the windpipe, and v, to cut.) The operation of cutting an opening into the windpipe for va- rious surgical purposes. See Bronchoiomy. TREPAN. (from rpo7rau>, to perforate.) Trepanum; Tcrelellum; Modiolus. A cir- cular saw, by means of which the skull is perfo- rated in the operation called trepanning, or a circular portion of any bone may be sawn oat. It bears a considerable resemblance to the well- known instrument named a wimble, and is worked in the same manner. Formerly, the sa* was sometimes made of a conical shape; (see Abaptiston) hut this construction rendered the action of the instrument difficult. In this country, the trepan is now superseded by the instrument, called a trephine, which has a dif- ferent handle, and is not worked in the same way. On the continent, however, the trq'an still lias the preference. TREPHINE. The instrument now com- monly preferred for perforating the cranium, for purposes which I shall presently explain. consists of a simple cylindrical saw, with a handle placed transversely, like that of a gimlet; and, from the centre of the circle, which the teeth of the saw describe, a sharp little perforator projects, named the centre-pin. The upper part of the centre-pin is made to screw in a corresponding hole at the inside of the top of the saw, and •* capable of being taken out, or put in, at the sur- geon’s option, hv means of a little key for t“e