DIP dent, became affected with diplopia. He informs us of a man, who rode a journey on horseback, along a snowy road on a very sun-shiny day, and was affected in the same manner. This affection of the eves is sometimes the effect of injuries of the head. (See Hill’s Cases in Surgery, p. 108. Schmucker, Med. Chir. Bemerk, 1 B. No. 26. Hearten s Principles of Military Surgery, p. 345, F.d. 2.) Persons, who have weak eyes, are apt to be become double-sighted, whenever they look attentively for a long while at any light shining objects. Patients in fevers are also sometimes double-sighted. (Gooch’s Cases. Sc. Vol. 2.) The irritation, productive of diplopia, may lead to other serious complaints of the eve, when it operates with great violence. Indeed, it fre- quently happens, that diplopia terminates in some other disorder of the eyes, and is often the fore- runner of the worst diseases of these organs, par- ticularly, the gutta serena. The difficulty, or : ease of the cure partly depends upon the nature ; of the remote cause, and partly upon the con- j dition of the eye. Some of the causes are easy, others difficult, of removal. When the eye is very weak and irritable, the disorder frequently continues, notwithstanding the irritation has been I r removed. Also, when the complaint is relieved, : it is exceedingly difficult to prevent a relapse, | ; for on very irritable eyes, slight irritations, which ; cannot be hindered, are apt to produce a return j . of the affection. Therefore, the indication is to I remove the existing defect of sight, and take I r means for the prevention of its return, or the | r commencement of any other. The weakness I and preternatural irritability of the eye should j ! be removed, as well as every sort of irritation, I • things which are often difficult of accomplish- | - ment. The chief business of the surgeon, in the treat- 1 ment of this kind of diplopia, consists in en- J deavouring to find out and remove the irritation occasioning the disorder. The majority of such ■ .rotations are of the same nature as those, which I; give rise to the gutta serena. (See Amaurosis.) Indeed, both the complaints are often only dif- I ferent effects of the same cause, and of course I require a similar mode of treatment. The boy, ■ .vhom Richter has mentioned, as having become I louble-sighted in consequence of being struck H >ver the eye with the bough of a tree, was cured | oy the external use of the infusum radicis vale- ■ rianae and spiritus vini crocatus, with which the I yeiids and adjacent parts were rubbed several I imes a day. A diplopia, which followed a violent I right, was cured by valerian, preceded by a few jj loses of cream of tartar. The case recorded by £ Or. Hennen, as proceeding from a gunshot 6 wound of the soft parts, covering the root of the I ose and right eve-brow, yielded to abstinence, f ccasional emetics, and cold collyria. (P/»i- 'pits if Mil. Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 345.) A hy- | ochondriaeal patient got rid of the disorder by leans of the warm bath. A diplopia, supposed H > arise from disorder of the biliary secretion, wa3 H' Ured by means of pills made of guru galbanum. I uaiacum, rhubarb, and Venice soap, assisted 8 ith emetics and purgatives. " hen the irritation, exciting the disorder, is nly of temporary duration, as, for instance, look- 's at shining objects; when the disorder con- nues after the removal of the irritation ; or, DIR .TS3 lastly, when the irritation cannot be well detected; the surgeon is to endeavour, by means of nervous and soothing medicines, either to remove the impression, which the irritation has left upon the nerves ; or to render the nerves insensible to the continuing irritation According to Richter, the following remedies have proved useful in cases of diplopia : hartshorn, dropped into the hand, and held before the eyes; the external use of the spiritus vini crocatus; warm bathing of the eye, particularly, in a decoction of white poppy heads; bathing the eye in cold collyria; the internal administration of bark, valerian, small doses of ipecacuanha, flowers of zinc, and oleum cajeput. In one instance, in which it was im- possible to detect the cause, Richter states, that soluble tartar with oxe’s gall, and castoreum was found of service; that, in another similar case, rhubarb, oxe’s gall, and assa foetida; and, in a third, liquor ammoniae acetatse with oxe’s gall, proved useful. This author further ob- serves, that, in all cases, in which the particular cause of the disorder cannot be precisely deter- mined, we may conjecture, that such cause has its seat in the abdominal viscera; and that much benefit may often be derived from mild resolvents, evacuants, and anodyne medicines. (Richter’s Anfavgsgr. der Wnudarzn. B. 3, Kar. 15.) According to Beer, the diplopia, which is not an effect of the continuance of another disease after in- flammation of the eye, but probably depends upon injury of the retina, caused by such inflammation, usually diminishes, without the assistance of art, if the eye be not abused. (Lehre von den An gen hr. B. 2, p. 32.) For the foregoing account of diplo- pia, I am chiefly indebted to lliciiter. See also A. Voter etJ. C. Heinickc, Visas Vitia duorarissima ; alterum dvplicati, alterum dimidiali, Ac. Wittemb. 1723. {Haller Diss. ud Morb. 1,305.) J. J. Klauhold de Visa, duplicate, 4to. Argent. 174G. Buchner de Visione simplici et duplid, 4 to. Argent. 1753. Euler, Recherches Physiques sur la diverse i efi an gib Hite des rayons de tu~ micre; Mem. de l’Acad, des Sciences, Sic. ; Berlin, p. 200, 1754. Kliuke de Diplopia, 4m. Goett. 1774. Sir E. Home’s Obs. on the straight Muscles of the Eye, and the structure, of the Cor- nea in Phil. Trans, for 1797 ; B. Gooch, Chir. Casts, cV- Vol. 2, p. 42, <5fc. 8co. Loud. 1792. Keghellini, Leltera sopra Toff era della cista in unu •Donna, &;c. Sro. Fend. 1749; an instance of Diplopia from double pupil. Diet, des Sciences Mid. I. 9, p. 497. J. War drop, Esstn/s on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vol. 2, />. 2lG. <5fr. 8vo. Bond. 1818. DIRECTOR, (from dirigo, to direct.) ('no of the njost common instruments of surgery; it is long, narrow, grooved, and made of silver, in order that it may be bent into any desirable shape. Its use is to direct the knife, and protect the parts underneath from the edge or point of the latter instrument. The surgeon introduces the director under the parts, which he means to divide, and then either cuts down, along the groove of the instrument, with a common bis- toury, or cuts upward with a narrow, cm vt d. point- ed bistoury, the point of which is turned upwards, which be carefully introduces along the groove. This instrument and the crooked bistoury uro commonly employed for opening sinuses, lor cutting fistula? iu.ano. and fistula4 in other