SUPPURATION. 9!) 3 ■ — ... lrlier, by Dr. William Hunter, and an account :veu of it ill the second volume of the London ledical Observations and Inquiries. “ Mr. Hunter, though he endeavours to esta- ish it as an invariable fact, that no suppura- jn takes place, which is not preceded by inflam- ation, is of opinion, that collections of what he nns extraneous matter, something like pus, ay form in various parts of the body, without e previous existence of inflammation in the .rts, in which it is formed; and accordingly .'■a will find, at page300 of his Treatise on In- immation, a chapter entitled, * Of Collections Matter without Inflammation.’ ” Professor Thomson doubts, however, “ wlie- er these collections of matter, said to be ,-med without inflammation, would not have en more properly denominated scrophulous i scesses, or chronic suppurations. I am dis- ced to believe (says he), that, in whatever xture, or organ of the body, scrophula mani- as itself, there inflammation will be found to s ist. The phenomena, it is true, of inflamma- m, both local and constitutional, are modified [ the existence of the scrophulous diathesis; I t, they are, I believe, always present in such a gree as to justify us in giving to them the me of inflammation, and in classing most, if t all local scrophulous affections, among in- mmatorv diseases. When the indolent swell- rs, of which Mr. Hunter speaks, occur near to a surface of the body, that part feels warmer in usual, as may be felt in white-swellings of i ; joints. The swelling also is either preceded i accompanied with some degree of pain, though, ! en the affection is internal, the patient may I t always be very accurate with regard to the i acise seat of this pain. When cut into, the | rts also affected with scrophulous swellings are | vays found more vascular, than usual; in • art, all the symptoms occur by which the state i inflammation is characterized.” (See Themi- n's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 313, 314.) another place, this author admits, that the atter, which is formed in chronic suppurations, >es not always accurately resemble that which formed in acute abscesses; but, yet he con- Iads, that it is so analogous both in its physical d chemical characters, as well as in the cir- I instances in which it is produced, that he can | ; no reason, why it should not be called pus, j a puriform fluid. (/-*. 315.) QUALITIES OF PUS. | True pus has certain properties, which when ten singly, may belong to other secretions, but, ich, conjointly, form the peculiar character of s fluid, viz. globules swimming in a fluid, uch is coagulahle by a solution of the muriate , ammonia, which no other animal secretion anil, at the same time, a consequence of in- mmation. The colour and the consistence of pus are the 0 qualities, which first attract the notice of ery, the most superficial, observer. The colour ises from the largest portion of this fluid being mposed of very small round bodies, very much ■e the globules of cream. The fluid, in which e globules of pus swim, might at first be sup- ised to be the scrum of the blood, for it coagu- tes with heat, like the latter fluid, Bus is also probably mixed with a small quantity of coagu- lating lymph ; as it partly coagulates, after it is secreted. However, the fluid part of pus is found to have properties, which serum has not. There being a similarity between pus and milk, experiments have been made to ascertain whe- ther the fluid of pus could be coagulated with the gastric juice of animals: but, no coagulation could be effected in this manner; a solution of muriate of ammonia made the fluid part of pus coagulate; hut, not any other secretion, or na- tural fluid; and, hence, it was concluded, that whenever globules were found swimming in a fluid, coagulable by muriate of ammonia, the matter was to be considered as pus. (Hunter.) The proportion, which the white globules bear to the other parts of pus, depends on the health of the parts producing the discharge. When the globules are very abundant, the matter is thicker and whiter, and is called healthy pus; the mean- ing of which is, that the solids, which produced it, are in good health; for, these appearances in the matter are no more than the result of certain salutary processes going on in the solids, the ef- fect of which processes is to produce the disposi- tion, on whicli both suppuration and granulation depend. (Hunter.) Bus is specifically heavier than water, and is probably about as heavy as blood. Besides the above properties, pus lias a sweet- ish mawkish taste, very different from that of most other secretions, and the same taste takes place, whether it is pus from a sore, or an irri- tated inflamed surface. Pus has a smell, in some degree peculiar to itself; but this differs in different cases. Some diseases, it is said, may be known by the smell, as for instance, a gonorrhoea. Pus sinks in water ; mucus floats. Pus com- municates to water an uniformly troubled white colour; mucus gives the appearance of stringy portions floating in it. Mucus is said to be more readily dissolved by sulphuric acid, than pu3 is. It has also been asserted, that if water be added to such solutions, the pus is precipitated to the bottom of the vessel; while the mucus, instead of being completely precipitated, forms swimming flakes. A solution of caustic alkali dissolves both pus and mucus; but, when water is added, the pus is said to become separated, but not the mucus. I hough solutions in chemical menstrua and precipitations, have been thought a test of the distinction between these two fluids; yet, the method has been thought absurd and unphiloso- phical. It has been conceived, that all animal sub- stances whatever, when in solution, either in acids or alkalies, would be in the same state, and there- fore, that the precipitation would be the same in all. Calcareous earth, when dissolved in muri- atic acid, is in that acid in the same state, whether it lias been dissolved from chalk, limestone, mar- ble, or calcareous spar, and precipitations from all are the same. Plence, experiments were made on organic, animal matter, such as muscle, tendon, cartilage, liver, and brain; and on inorganic, such as pus and the white of an egg. All these substances were dissolved in sulphuric acid, and precipitated with potassa. Each precipitation was examined with such magnifiers, as plainly shewed the forms of the precipitates, all which 3 S