461 FRACTURES. quiet, until the union is perfectly consolidated. And, In fractures of the lower extremity, even after the union has proceeded so far, that the splints admit of being left off, the patient ought not to venture to get out of bed, or bear upon the limb, till several more days have elapsed. All fractujes, however simple and well treated they may be, are constantly followed by weakness and stiffness of the limb. These unpleasant con- sequences are the greater, the more violently the limb has been contused, the nearer the fracture is to a joint, and the longer the part has re- mained motionless, and without exercise. The stiffness always affects the inferior joint of the broken bone, much more than the suoerior. For the relief of these effects of fractures, it is cus- tomary to employ friction, liniments, emollient relaxing applications, cold washes and bathing; but, sometimes, notwithstanding such remedies, the member does not quickly recover its strength, but continues stiff and weak for a year, or even a longer time. The most effectual plans for the prevention of this state should therefore be re- sorted to early. These consist in making the joints, nearest the fracture, execute slight mo- tions, as soon as the union is sufficiently' ad- vanced, not to be in danger of interruption from this practice. A great deal of caution, however, is necessary in moving the part, and it is safer for the surgeon to superintend the business him- self, than leave it to the patient, or others. One of the best proceedings also for the hinderance of much weakness and stillness in the limb after a fracture, is to discontinue the splints and tight bandages, immediately the state of the callus will allow. The manner, in which their pressure re- tards the circulation, and prevents the action of the muscles, is one of the principal causes of the stiffness of the limb, and, consequently, the sooner they can be safely left off, the sooner will the pa- tient regain the free use of the limb. In France, the chief division of fractures is into simple and cumplicaU tl,which lastineludesamongst many varieties the cases, which we name com- poautl. We shall here briefly notice a few of the complications, and the particular treatment »which they require. Fractures (says Boyer) are always attended •with a certain degree of contusion, which is con- stantly more severe in cases where the violence has acted directly on the situation of the frac- ture. But, such contusion can only be regarded as a complication of the accident, when it exists in so violent a degree as to demand a different treatment from that which is employed in simple I fractures. In this circumstance, the splints and bandage • jhould be applied rather slackly, and the latter ■ought to be wet with col;l water, or some resol- vent lotion. The patient isr to be bled more or •ess freely, according to his age, the state of his : constitution, and violence of the contusion. The next day, the splints and bandage should be opened; a thing highly necessary to be observed; or, where it has been neglected, the limb has ueen known to mortify, in consequence of the swelling having rendered the bandage too tight, ?,? l.^al l*,e circulation was Impeded. (Boyer, des Mai. Cliir. T. 3, p. 63—64.) In cases where the contusion is very great, out unattended with a wound of the integuments, the tension and swelling may be so intense, that the cuticle is detached, forming vesicles filled with yellowish serum. These vesicles may deceive an inexperienced surgeon, and lead him to ima- gine that the limb is threatened, or actually af- fected with gangrene. They ought to be punc- tured, arid covered with pledgets of simple oint- ment. Here some practitioners apply emollient poultices under the apparatus; but, there is some inconvenience in their use, and it may be ques- tioned, whether cold lotions are not generally better. In simple fractures, it does not often happen, that a large artery is wounded; but, when the injury does occur, and a diffused aneurism takes place, the surgeon is to expose the vessel by an incision, and apply a ligature above and below the opening. We are to be careful, however, before resorting to the operation, that the tumor is not a venous extravasation, which may almost always be dissipated by resolvent applications. Fractures are sometimes complicated with a dislocation. Here, if possible, the luxation should invariably be reduced before the fracture is set. The possibility of reducing the dislocation (says Eoyer) depends upon the species of articulation, the situation of the fracture, and other circum- stances of the case. When it is a ginglymoid joint, when the ligaments are lacerated, and the swelling is not considerable, the luxation may be reduced easily enough ; but, when it is an orbi- eular joint, surrounded by numerous muscles; and when the fracture is near the articulation, and situated below the dislocation; the reduction of the latter is impossible. The attempt indeed would be injurious, because the necessary exten- sion could not act upon the upper fragment, and were it to operate upon the lower, it could only have the effect of painfully stretching the mus- cles, and perhaps lacerating them. The fracture, therefore, should be at first attended to, and after its (irm union, an endeavour may be made to rectify the dislocation. Boyer conceives, that there will be more probability of success, when care is taken to move the limb gently, as soon as the state of the callus will permit it. Fie also recommends the employment of emollient relaxing applications. He confesses, however, that the attempt rarely succeeds after the per- fect union of the fracture. There are, it is true, examples, in which old dislocations may be reduced; but, these are cases, which are not com- plicated with a fracture, an accident, which always renders the muscles and ligaments so stiff, that they cannot yield to the extension requisite for the reduction. I do not know, (says Bover,) that a luxation, complicated with fracture, has ever been reduced, when the nature of the joint, and the circumstances of the case, prevented the treatment from beginning with the reduction of dislocation.” (Truilt des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p, 79.) -COMPOUND FUACTUItES. What Mr. Pott lias said upon these cases i-s, with one or two exceptions, to which I shall advert, the essence of good surgery, not in the least deteriorated, as a few other parts of his precepts have been, by the more mature instruc- tions of time and experience, or by that growing stale of surgical science, which, lostcrcd by go-