3 I 2 NITRIC AND NITROUS ACIDS. 2.51 >uickslmnk, Dr. Beddoes, Dr. P. G. Prioleau, >f Charleston, South Carolina, and others, ex- ;mplifying the success, with which the venereal lisease may be treated by the nitrous, or nitric, tcid, must "be surprised to find, that the accounts lelivered by these gentlemen by no means cor- espoud to those of some other eminent practi- ioriers. How to reconcile these seemingly dis- ordant statements, whether by supposing some ndefined differences in the nature of the cases I dduced, or some variation in the goodness of he medicine itself, is indeed perplexing. Nor ; a solution of the question at all facilitated, by ic results of later investigations, tending to I rove the general curability of syphilis without iercury, or any medicine whatever; because, if e admit this as a fact, the circumstance of a ansiderable proportion of cases not yielding, or i eing radically cured, when the nitric and nitrous cids are exhibited, as asserted by Mr. Pearson nd others, would argue, that giving such acids ; worse, than leaving the disease entirely to .self. The more I reflect upon all that we \ now about the venereal disease, however, the lore 1 am inclined to adopt the sentiment, that : is not one disorder, but probably many, which ;o under this name, their exact shades of differ- nce not having yet been detected, nor described, f this supposition be admissible, the contradic- ory statements, given by various authors about hat their experience has taught them of this, or ,iat mode of treating the disease, may all be i nmediately reconciled. The practice of exhibiting nitric acid, in lieu of uicksilver, began with Mr. Wm. Scott, a sur- eon at Bombay, who is said to have been led to ie experiment by a suggestion thrown out by ■xirtanner, that the efficacy of the various pre- arations of quicksilver probably depended upon ie quantity of oxygen combined with them. Grens. Journ. d. Physick. B. 3, p. 31, 1790.) n August, 17.93, Mr. Scott being himself af- j dieted with chronic hepatitis, resolved to take a uantity of oxygen, united to some substance, >r which it has no great attraction, and after ome reflection, nothing appeared to him better, han nitric acid. September 11 th, he took at 1 iff’erent times about a dram nf the strong ni- ric acid diluted with water. Soon after drink- . ig it, he felt a sense of warmth in his stomach nd chest; but no disagreeable sensation, nor [ ny other material effect. The two following | ays the medicine was continued, the gums be- i inning to be somewhat red> and enlarged. He ! lept ill; but could lie for a length of time on is left side, which the disease of the liver had merited him from doing during many months ! revious to this period. He also felt a pain in | he back of his head, resembling what he had [ ommonly experienced, when taking mercury. In the fourth day, his gums were a little tender; he headaeh and pain about his jaws still troubled um; but the symptoms of his liver complaint [ ad already left him. The acid was continued >n the 4th, 5th, and b’th days; the soreness of , he mouth increasing, and a salivation taking I dace. On the 7th day, he felt his mouth so roublesome, that he took no more acid. His I nouth got gradually well, and he found his I lealth considerably improved. Mr. Scott likewise administered the nitric acid in several cases of tedious intennittents, in two cases of diabetes, and in many syphilitic cases with the happiest effect. This gentleman’s account of the nitrous acid was first published in the Bombay Courier of April 30th, 1796, and soon afterwards repub- lished in this country. (See “ A a Account of the Effects of the Nitrous yield on the Human Body," by TV. Scott, in Duncan s Annals of Medicine for 1796, Vol. 1, p. 375—383.) The hypothesis suggested by Girtanner, in 1790, that the efficacy of mercury in the treat- ment of the venereal disease depended upon the oxygen combined with this mineral, required but little extension to lead to the discovery of the antisyphilitic virtues of the acids. Yet, Gir- tanner had all his attention so fixed on mercury, that it never struck him, that the principle, on which he explained the efficacy of tiiis medicine, might apply to other substances, which abound with oxygen, and are readily separable from it. This was the idea, which made Mr. Wm. Scott begin to suspect, that the nitric acid might be as efficacious as mercury in venereal cases ; and, as he had already observed a great analogy, be- tween the effects of this acid and mercury in the experiments, which he made with the first of these medicines in his own case of chronic hepa- titis, and other diseases, he ventured to recom- mend the trial of it in syphilis. The result was, that the acid was found not only to equal the preparations of mercury, but sometimes to sur- pass them; for it had the best effect, in some cases, where mercury had been tried in vain, and it was observed to remove the disease in less time, than the common remedy. Nor were any of the inconveniences, usually known under the names of mercurial symptoms, mercurial fever, found to be the consequence of its employment, however long continued. With it alone many syphilitic cases are stated to have been cured, tlie disease not having returned at the end of two years. (See Duncan's Annals of Medicine, \c. Vol. I, 1796, p. 883, <£r.) The letter from Mr. Scott to Sir Joseph Banks, describing these effects of the nitric acid in India, soon excited the attention of medical practitioners both in Europe and America, the inquiry being taken up with all the zeal, which the preceding accounts were calculated to in- spire. In 1797, Mr. G. Kellie, a surgeon of the navy, gave the nitric acid to five sailors, af- fected with gonorrhoea, venereal sores, and bu- boes. Three of them were perfectly cured. A fourth, who had sores on the glans, and who had been much debilitated by the long use of mercury, recovered nearly his original strength, while taking the acid; but, the sores were not healed, before mercury had been repeatedly ex- hibited. In the fifth patient, who was also scro- phulous, the nitric acid contributed very essen- tially to heal the sores. On the whole, Mr. Kellie seems to regard this medicine, as pos- sessing very efficient power of stopping and eradi- cating the venereal disease. (See Letters from G. Kellie, respecting the Effects of Nitrous Acid in the Cure of Syphilis. Duncan's Annuls of Medicine for 1797, p. '254, ‘277.) In the same year appeared a letter, in a Ger- man periodical work (Jlufeland’s Journ. der Prukt. Jleilk, 4 Bd. 356—359.), written