536 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. of a limb is indispensably necessary in the case of a gun-shot wound, it ought to be done with- out delay.” (Aphorism 9.) De La Murtiniere in particular also wrote some excellent argu- ments in reply to Bilguer; arguments which,, I think, would do honour to the most accom- plished surgeon of t|ie age, in which we live. (See Memoire sur le Traitement des plaics d’armes a feu, in Mem. de l’Acad, de Chirurgie, T. 11, }>. 1> Edit, in 12mn.) M Boucher, of Lisle, was an advocate for the same side of the question. (See Obs. sur des plaies d’armes a feu, &;c. in Mdm. de l'Acad, de Chirurgie, Torn. 5, p. 279, fyc. Edit, in 12mo.) Schmucker, who was many years surgeon-general to the Prussian armies, published ip 1776 an essay on amputation, in which he particularly mentions, that, during his stay at Paris in 1738, the surgeons of the Hotel Dieu had been in the habit of performing immediate amputation in severe injuries of the extremities. He also declares himself an ad- vocate for operating immediately, in all cases in which amputation from the fi st appears to be ne- cessary, and insists, in a particular manner, on the increased danger, which he had seen arise from the operation during the second period. He gives (as Dr. J. Thomson has observed) a minute and circumstantial enumeration of those injuries, both of the upper and lower extremities, in which he conceived amputation to be neces- sary, and in many of which he had actually per- formed it with great success. Schmucker ap- pears to Dr. Thomson to have given a better account, than any preceding military surgeon, of the injuries of the thigh ; and, from the results of his experience, he was led to believe, that (though compound, fractures of the lower part of the thigh-bone might, in favourable circumstances, be cured without amputation, yet that this ope- ration is peculiarly necessary ip all cases, in which the fracture is situated in, or above, the middle of that bone. (J. L. Schmucker, Vermisclite Chirur- gische Schriften, B. 1. Berlin, 1785.) With the foregoing high authority we have to join one of not less celebrity, namely, that of Baron Larrey, who lias proved most convincingly, that when amputa- tion is to be done in cases of gun-shot wounds, nothing is so pernicious as delay. (See M6 moires de Chirurgie Mi itaire, Tom. 2, p. 45 1 ,&c.) It becomes me here to state, also, that the principles, inculcated by Baron Larrey, are, in point of fact, the same as those, which were so strenuously insisted upon by Mr. Pott, whose principal remarks on the necessity of amputation in certain cases, are detailed in another part of this publication. (See Amputation.) Mr. Pott, indeed, w'as not an army surgeon, and what he says, was not particularly designed to apply to military practice; but, he has represented, as well as any body can do, the propriety of immediate amputation for injuries, which leave no doubt, that such operation cannot be dispensed with. Mr. John Bell, amongst the moderns, appears to me likewise to have much merit, for the able manner, in which he defended the propriety of early amputation, long before the sentiments of later writers were ever heard of. He distinctly states, that, “amputation should, in those cases where the limb is plainly and irrecoverably dis- ordered, be performed upon the spot,” (See Discourses on the Nature, Ac. of Wounds,p. 4P8, Edit. 3,) In short, notwithstanding all the modern pretensions to novelty upon this inter- esting topic, we must acknowledge, with Dr. Thomson, that the evidence, in favour of the advantages of immediate amputation, lias always preponderated over that for delay. (See Report of Obs. ma le in the Military Hospitals in Bel- gium, p. 225.) The strongest body of evidence upon this matter, is undoubtedly adduced by Baron Larrey, whose situation at the head of the medical de- partment of the French armies aflbrded him most numerous opportunities of judging from actual experience. “ Upon this subject, (says he) now that twenty years of continual war have carried our art to the highest pitch of perfection, there can only be one opinion. It is after having in- cessantly directed the medical service, all this time, in quality of head surgeon and inspector- general of the armies, that I proceed to discuss the different opinions delivered in the academy, and to settle definitively this great question, which I regard as the most important in military surgery. “ If we are to be told, that the amputation of a limb is a cruel operation, dangerous in its con- sequences, and always grievous for the patient, who is thereby mutilated; that, consequently, there is more honour in saving a limb, than in cutting it off with dexterity and success; these arguments may be refuted by answering, that amputation is an operation of necessity, which offers a chance of preservation to the unfortu- nate, whose death appears certain under any other treatment; and, that if any doubt should exist of amputation being absolutely indispensable to the patient’s safety, the operation is to be deferred, till nature has declared herself, and given a positive indication for it. We are also justified in adding, that this chance of preserva- tion is at the present day much greater, than at the epoch of the academy of surgery'. We learn from M. Faure, that, of about three hundred amputations, performed after the battle of Fon- tenoy, only thirty were followed by success, whilst, on the contrary, says Baron Larrey, we have saved more than three-fourths of the pa- tients, on whom amputation has been done, and some of whom also had two limbs removed. This improvement is ascribed by’ Larrey, 1st, To our now knowing better how to take advantage of the indication and favourable time for ampu- tating. 2. To the better method of dressing. To the mode of operating being more simple, less painful, and more expeditious, than that formerly' in vogue.” To the preceding authorities against delaying amputation, in cases of gun-shot wounds requi- ring such operation, I have to add Mr. Guthrie, deputy inspector of military hospitals, whose opportunities of observation, during the late war in Spain, were particularly extensive. In his work, he has detailed the opinions of many emi- nent foreign and British surgeons, respecting the propriety, or impropriety, of the doctrine of im- mediate amputation; and he has introduced some good criticisms, particularly on Bilguer’s state- ment of the success, which was experienced in the Prussian hospitals, from not performing the