FRACTURES. 495 with a roller. The fragment is also to be kept backward, as much as possible, with compresses and a roller, and the arm is to be supported in a sling. The fractured acromion requires the arm to be so raised, that the head of the os brachii will push up the acromion, while an assistant pushes the scapula forward and downward, in a con- trary direction to that of the arm. lo main- tain this position, a circular bandage is to be applied round the arm and body. Desault used to apply also a small pillow under the axilla, before putting on the bandage, in order to make the head of the os brachii pro- ject more upward, on bringing the arm near the side. Compresses are to be placed on the scapula, which, by this means, and a roller, is to be kept downward and forward. When the coracoid process is fractured, the muscles attached to it are to be relaxed, by bringing the arm forwards towards the breast, and confining it there in a sling; while the shoulder is kept downward and forward, and a compress confined just under the broken part, with a roller. The treatment of a fracture of the neck of the scapula consists in raising the shoulder to its proper height; in completely taking off the weight of the arm, by means of a proper sling, which always supports the limb from the elbow to the fingers; and in entirely preventing all motion of the arm by binding it to the trunk with a roller. FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. This bone being long and slender, unsup- ported at its middle, and protected externally only by the integuments, is very often broken. Its serving to keep the scapula at a proper di- stance from the sternum, and as a point d'uppui for the os brachii, every impulse of which it re- ceives. makes its fractures stiil more common. It may be broken at any part; but. its middle, where the curvature is greatest, is most fre- quently the situation of the injury. It is not very often fractured at its scapulary extremity. How- ever, a direct force, falling on the shoulder, may break any part of the clavicle, on which it im- mediately acts. The soft parts, in this kind of case, will also be contused, or even lacerated. A comminuted fracture may be thus occa- sioned. and, if the violence be very great, the subclavian vessels and nerves may be torn. The fall of a heavy body on the shoulder often gives rise to a paralysis of the arm. When the fracturing force is applied to the ends of the bone, as by a fall on the point of the shoulder, or on the hands, while the arms are extended, the clavicle may be very much bent, and fractured so obliquely, that the broken por- tions protrude through the skin. l'ractures of this bone are usually attended vith displacement of the broken ends, except when the injury takes place at the seapularv ex- tremity, ami within the ligament, tying together the clavicle and coracoid process. Ibe external portion of the clavicle is always that which is displaced. The internal part can- not be moved out of ils natural situation, by reason of the costo-davicular ligaments, and of its being drawn in opposite directions, by the sternocleido-mastoideus, and pectoralis major, muscles. The external portion, drawn down both by the weight of the artn, and the action of the deltoid muscle, and forward and inward by the pectoralis major, is carried under the inter- nal portion which projects over it. The broken clavicle no longer keeping the shoulder at a due distance from the sternum, the arm falls for- ward towards the breast. The patient finds it impossible to put his hand to his forehead, be- cause this act makes a semicircular motion of the humerus necessary, which cannot be done while that bone lias not a firm point d’ujpui. The shoulder and upper extremity may be ob- served to be nearer the breast, than those of the opposite side. The motion of the pieces of bone on one another may be felt, as well as the pro- jection of the end of the internal portion. When the shoulder is moved, a crepitus may also be perceived ; but this is productive of great pain, and the diagnosis is so obvious, that it is quite unnecessary. The ancients, and many moderns, have Sup- posed, that, in order to set a fracture of the cla- vicle, the shoulder must be drawn back, and fixed in that position. The patient was placed on a low stool, so that an assistant might put his knee between the shoulders, which he drew back at the same time with both hands, while the surgeon applied the bandage, which was to keep the parts in this position. But, when the shoulders are thus drawn towards one another, the scapula is obviously pushed towards the sternum, and with it the external portion of the clavicle, which passes under the internal fragment. The figure of 8 bandage has commonly been used for maintaining the parts in this position. "While the assistant keeps back the shoulders, as above described, the surgeon is to apply one end of a roller to the arm-pit on the side affected, and then make it cross obliquely to the opposite shoulder, round which it is to pass, and from this to the other shoulder, about which it is to be applied in the same manner, and afterwards repeatedly crossed before and behind. The tight- ness, with which it is necessary to apply this bandage, produces a great deal of excoriation about the arm-pits, and the effect is to make the ends of the fracture overlap each other, the very thing which it is wished to avoid. Boyer remarks, that the iron cross proposed by Heister, the corselet described by lirasdor in the Mrm. de 0Acad, dt Clur. and the leather strap recom- mended by Brunninghaussen, are only modifi- cations of the figure of 8 bandage, and are not at all better. Desault advised extension to be made, by means of the limb, which is articulated witli the fractured bone. This is done by converting the humerus into a lever, by carrying its lower end forward,inward, and upward, pushing theshoulder backward, upward, and outward, and putting a cushion in the arm-pit to serve as a fulcrum. Desault used to put in the arm-pit a hair or flock cushion, five or six inches long, and three inches and a quarter thick at its base. Two strings are attached to the corners of the base, placed upward, which cross the back and breast, and are tied on the shoulder of the other arm.