806 MERCURY. of the symptoms, ami, from the cause of the dis- ease being thus unconsciously applied for its re- moval, it could not fail to be aggravated, and liunied on to a fatal termination, ’Pile observa- tion of this fact, conjoined with another, of less frequent occurrence, namely, that a similar erup- tion did sometimes appear in patients using mer- cury for other complaints, and in whom no sus- picion of syphilis could be entertained, at last led some judicious practitioners in Dublin to the im- portant discovery, that the eruption was entirely an effect of mercury, and not at all connected with the original disease. This discovery was not published till 1804.” (M-Mullin in Edin- burgh Medical and Surgical Journal, JVo. 5.) Mr. Pearson states, however, that he has been acquainted with the disease ever since 1781, and has always described its history and treatment in liis lectures, since 1783. The eruption is attended with more or less in- disposition, is not confined to either sex, or any particular constitution, and seems to be equally produced by mercury applied externally, and by any of its preparations taken inwardly. Mr. Pearson has never seen it in subjects above 50; and he says, its occurrence is more common about eight, or ten days after beginning a mer- curial course. (P. 166'.) Dr. M'Mullin has described three distinct stages of the erythema mercuriale. “ The first stage commences with languor, lassitude, and cold shiverings; these symptoms are succeeded by increased temperature of the body, quick pulse, nausea, head-ach, and thirst. The pa- tient is troubled with a dry cough, and complains of difficult respiration, anxiety, and sense of stric- ture about the proecordia. The tongue is usu- ally moist, and covered with a white glutinous slime : it sometimes appears clean, and brightly red in the centre, whilst the margins remain foul. The skin feels unusually hot and itchy, with a sense of prickling, not unlike the sensation ex- perienced from the application of nettles. The belly is generally costive; but a diarrhoea is often produced by very slight causes. “ On the first, or second day, an eruption roost commonly shews itself, the colour of which is either dark or bright red: the papulae are at first distinct and elevated, resembling very much those in rubeola. Sometimes, but rarely, the eruption appears like urticaria, and in such in- stances the disease is observed to be very mild. The papulae very speedily run together in such a manner as to form a suffused redness, which dis- appears on pressure. In most cases, it begins first on the scrotum, inside of the thighs, fore- arm, or where mercurial friction has been ap- plied, and the integuments of the parts affected become much swoln. There have also been ob- served instances, where an eruption of a purplish colour, and unaccompanied by papulae, has dif- fused itself suddenly over the entire body. This, however, may be considered as uncommon. In every instance, which came under my observa- tion," it was confined at first to a few places, and from thence gradually extended, until the differ- ent portions of the eruption had united, and the papulae were also rough to the feel. But in those cases, which resemble urticaria, a number of mi- nute vesicles, which contain a serous fluid, ap- pear, from the commencement, interspersed among the papulae. Contrary to what happen* in most diseases accompanied with cutaneous af- fections, the febrile symptoms are much aggra- vated, and continue to increase after the eruption has been completed. The pulse in general beats from 120 to 130 in a minute, the thirst continues urgent, and the patient, extremely restless, sel- dom enjoys quiet sleep. When the eruption has continued in this manner for a certain period, the cuticle begins to peel off in thin, whitish, scurfy exfoliations, not unlike those observed in rubeola. This desquamation lias not been attended to by Dr. Moriarty or Mr. Alley, if they have not, by giving the same name to the decrustation which occurs in the last stage, confounded both to- gether. It commences in those places where the eruption first made its appearance, and in this order spreads to other parts. About this period the fauces become sore, the tongue swells, and the eyes appear somewhat inflamed. “ The duration of this stage is very various; sometimes it continues from ten to fourteen days, and, in other cases, it terminates in half that time. When the disease has appeared in its mildest form, the patient recovers immediately after the desquamation, a new cuticle having formed underneath ; but, if severe, he has only experienced the smallest part of his sufferings, and the skin now assumes a new appearance, which I have considered as the second stage. “ The skin at this period appears as if studded with innumerable minute vesicles, which are filled with a pellucid fluid. These vesicles may be ex- pected, if the patient, at the close of the first stage, complains of increased itching, and sense of burning heat, in those parts from which the cuticular exfoliations have fallen. They remain sometimes for a day or two, but are most com- monly burst, immediately after their formation, by the patient rubbing them, in order to relieve the troublesome itchiness with which these parts are affected. They discharge a serous, acrimo- nious fluid, which possesses such a very disagree- able odour as to induce nausea in the patient himself, and those who approach near his bed- side. The odour is so peculiar, that it can easily be recognised by any person who has once ex- perienced it. “ This fluid is poured out most copiously from the scrotum, groin, inside of the thighs, or wliere- ever the skin forms folds, and sebaceous glands are most numerous. The serous discharge from these minute vesicles forms, with the cuticle, an incrustation, which may be considered as the third or last state. “ These crusts are generally very large, and, when detached, retain the figure of the parts from which they have fallen. Their colour is yellowish; but sometimes appears dark and dirty. This period of the disease might be termed, I think, with much propriety, the stage of decrustation, in order to distinguish it more fully from the desquamation, which has been al- ready noticed. From the use of the two last terms indiscriminately, those who have described the disease have introduced into their descrip- tions a degree of confusion which has caused its progress not to be well understood. When this stage appears, the fauces become more affected, the eyes intolerant of light, and the tarsi tender, inflamed, and sometimes inverted. The crusts