ULCERS. 1067 lire •essa sons, mav be cither locals that is, confined, • a primary syphilitic ulcer, to one spot; or ■ slitittioiuil, that is liable to occur in any part, tore, or organ, such as secondary syphilitic crs. Of diatheses, predisposing to ulcers, have examples in the scrophulous, scorbutic, [ arthritic diatheses, and also in the syphiloid dieses, or that which arises not unfreqnently ■ those, who have had syphilis, from the too : and injudicious use of mercury. < Everv ulcer, strictly speaking, is of a local I but, there are ulcers, which, though rily local in their appearance, are con- •ted with, or dependent upon, diseases, which :ct the general system. These ulcers ought •jc regarded as modifications of, or forms in teh the diseases appear, with which they are inected. Considered in this light, it is obvi- p.i, that specific ulcers can be treated of witli priety, only under the head of the diseases, which they respectively belong. “ We call those sores, ulcers, simple, which do t appear to proceed from any specific disease, morbid diathesis existing in the constitution those, in whom they take place. They are ually solitary occurrences, and the eonse- ences of accidental injuries, and improper ides of management. They may occur in sry part of the body, but, they appear most .■quently upon the lower extremities.” iProfessor Thomson afterwards remarks, that he appearances, which different ulcers exhibit, :m, at first view, to afford an excellent founda- : n for distinctions among them, and so they doubtedlv do in many respects. ■ “ But (says lie) “ it is to be regretted, that : characters, upon which the distinctions of ■ers, as well as of many other local diseases, 2 founded, are neither very uniform in their pearance, nor very easily distinguishable from e another. Not only are the local appearances, lich present themselves, in simple ulcers, liable great variations in the different stages of the me individual affection, but, they are often parently the same with, or at least not easily itinguishable from, those which occur in spe- ic diseases, and which require, for their cure, culiar modes of treatment. It is this circum- tnce, which renders it so necessary for us, in deavouring to distinguish and to cure ulcers, avail ourselves of all the information, which : can procure from the history of the ulcer, ) mi the nature of the exciting cause, by which has been induced, and from the effects of the ' medies, which have been employed, as well as >in the particular appearances, which the ulcer ■ elf exhibits.” i In noticing another ground of distinctions long ulcers, or that derived from the parts in lich they occur, Dr. Thomson observes, that very texture and organ of the body possesses ivsieal and vital qualities peculiar to itself; id these qualities must necessarily modify e appearances, which each texture and or- in respectively exhibits in the state of dis- se. Specific diseases render some parts more tble, than others, to attacks of ulceration. Thus condary syphilis appears most frequently in the roat; scurvy in the gums; cancer in the wer lip; and lupous and scrophulous ulcera- >ns in the upper lip, or in the r>o.m. Cancer seldom or never appeal's primarily in the upper lip ; but syphilis, when it attacks this part, puts on many tif the appearances of cancer ;” a fact, which Dr. Thomson says he first learned from Mr. Pearson. (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 427—4.30.) In the valuable treatise on ulcers, published bv Sir Everard Home, these complaints are divided into six principal kinds, viz. : 1. Ulcers in parts, which have sufficient stength to carry on the actions, necessary for their recovery. 2. Ulcers in parts, which are too weak for that purpose. 3. Ulcers in parts, whose actions are too vio- lent to form healthy granulations, whether this arises from the state of the parts, or of the con- stitution. 4. Ulcers in parts, whose actions are too in- dolent, whether this arises from the state of the. parts, or of the constitution. 5. Ulcers in parts, which have acquired some specific action, either from a diseased state of the parts, or of the constitution. 6. Ulcers in parts, which are prevented from healing by a varicose state of the superficial veins of the upper part of the limb. Although I have chosen, in the subsequent columns, to adopt this nomenclature, I am per- fectly aware of its being on some accounts objec- tionable, but, especially, because it assumes hy- potheses, the truth of which can never be esta- blished, nor proved. This is one of the considera- tions, which have induced Professor Thomson to prefer the old names usually applied to ulcers; (Op. tit. p. 435, 438,) and he therefore treats of the simple purulent ulcer ; Inflamed ulcer ; Fungous ulcer ; Callous ulcer; Sloughing ul- cer ; Ulcerative ulcer; Carious ulcer; and Specific ulcers. OF ULCERS IN PARTS, WHICH HAVE SUFFICIENT STRENGTH TO CARRY ON THE ACTIONS NECES- SARY FOR THEIR RECOVERY, SIMPLE PURU- LENT, OR HEALTHY ULCERS, Sir E. Home remarks, that in this species of ulcer, the pus is of a white colour, thick consist- ence, and readily separates from the surface of the sore, and when diluted, and examined in a microscope, is found to be made up of small globules, swimming in a transparent fluid. The granulations are small, florid, and pointed at the top. As soon as they have risen to the level of the surrounding skin; those, next to the old skin, become smooth, and are covered with a thin, semi-transparent film, whicli afterwards becomes opaque, and forms cuticle. In the treatment of this kind of ulcer, it is only necessary to keep the surface clean, and prevent the natural processes from being inter- rupted. Sir E. Home observes, that this is in general best done, by the application of dry lint, for the purpose of absorbing and retaining the matter, which serves as a soft covering for the granulations, and by putting over the lint, a pledget of any simple ointment, in order to hin- der the matter from evaporating, by which means the dressings will not become adherent, and may be easily taken off, as often as requisite. Although healthy ulcers require no medicated