106S ULCERS. application to be made to them, the dressings must be such as do not disagree with the granu- lations, or surrounding skin. With some patients, a roller applied with moderate tightness, with a view of retaining the dressings, which cause uneasiness in the part, and make the ulcer lose its healthy appearance. Sir E. Home states, that he has seen several such cases, in which the proper appearance of the sore returned as soon as the bandage was dis- continued. In some patients, ointment irritates and in- flames the neighbouring skin ; and certain super- ficial ulcers will not heal, while kept in a moist state, and unexposed to the air; but heal, when allowed to become dry and covered with a scab. Sir E. Home refers these particularities to constitutional causes, and not disease; for, the ulcers heal as soon as the particular things, which disagree with them, are discontinued. These peculiarities in certain healthy sores may also attend others of a different description, and should always be discriminated from the effects of disease. Sir E. Home very judiciously recommends inquiring of patients, who have previously had sores, what kind of applications they derived most benefit from, and what dressings were found to disagree. TREATMENT. 1. Applications in the form of vapour, and fomentations, should never be employed, as they render the texture of the granulations looser, and diminish the disposition to form skin. 2. With respect to fluid applications, Sir E. Home also very properly condemns poultices, as well as fomentations. He speaks of alcohol, as being an application, which promotes the for- mation of a scab, when this mode of cure is chosen. 3. In regard to ointments, their only use, in cases of healthy ulcers, is to keep the matter from evaporating. The most simple ointments are the best for the purpose; particularly the one composed of white wax and olive oil. Sir E. Home observes, that the great objec- tions to the common simple ointments are, that they sometimes disagree with the skin, even when recent, and free from all rancidity. When they have acquired the latter quality, they still more frequently create a greater degree of irritation. 4. With respect to applications in the form of powder, Sir. E. Home remarks, that when it is desirable to form a scab on the ulcer, any inert powder may be sprinkled on the sore; but, he prefers dry lint. Nothing should touch the powder, or lint; and, to prevent this circum- stance, Sir E. Home recommends applying a little bolster on each side of the sore, and over them a roller, which will go from one bolster to the other, in the manner of a bridge. For healthy ulcers, dry lint is to be regarded as being upon the whole, the most eligible appli- cation. When the sore does not secrete pus enough in twenty-four hours to moisten the lint, the dressings are only to be changed every other day. Wlinn ti tplv tiirlit bandane is not for- bidden by constitutional peculiarities, it is useful, both in supporting the muscles and skin, which are often in a flabby state from the unexercised state of the limb, and in defending the newly formed parts. (See Home on Ulcers.) ULCEIIS IN TARTS WHICH ARE TOO WEAK TO CARRY ON THE ACTIONS NECESSARY KOR THEIR RECOVERY; THE OVERACTING ULCERS OF MR. liURNS ; THE FUNGOUS ULCERS OP OLDER WRITERS. This is the second of the classes, into which Sir Everard Home has divided ulcers in gene- ral. The granulations of these sores are larger, more round on their external surface, and of a less compact texture, than those formed on ulcers in healthy parts. Sir E. Home has also noticed their semi-transparent appearance. When they have filled up the cavity of an ulcer to a level with the surface of the body, they do not readily form skin, but, rising up in a still higher manner, often lose altogether the power of pro- ducing new cutis. When the parts are still weaker, the granulations sometimes continue gradually to fill up the hollow of the ulcer, and then, all on a sudden, are suddenly absorbed, so as to leave the sore as deep as it was before. Ulcers may be weak from the first, or become so in the progress of the case. Even granula- tions of the most healthy kind, if they are not skinned over in a certain time, gradually lose their primitive strength. Sores on the legs are greatly under the influ- ence of all natural peculiarities of the constitu- tion, and every thing, which affects the health. When the constitution becomes in the least weaker or stronger, the appearance of the granu- lation becomes changed accordingly, and this effect of constitutional weakness, or strength, on ulcers is greater, in proportion as the sores are further from the source of the circulation. While the constitution is undergoing any kind of disturbance, the healing of an ulcer is sus- pended. Mental anxiety is very apt to retard cicatrization. Such effects of the constitutional kind on ul- cers are greater in weak and delicate persons, than in the strong and robust. Change of weather has considerable influence over the heal- ing of sores. Sir E. Home mentions, in proof of this fact, that when there were several hun- dreds of ulcers in the Naval Hospital at Ply- mouth, in 1778, every time the weather changed, from a dry to a moist state, the ulcers univer- sally assumed an unhealthy appearance; but put on a better aspect when the weather became orj again. In the treatment of this kind of ulcer, tonic* are to be exhibited, particularly bark and steel, and every thing which disagrees with the con- stitution is to be avoided. Wine and cordial medicines arc also usually prescribed. Porter, however, is deemed better than wine, for work- ing people. . . Sir E. Home observes, that the first object > the local part of the treatment, is to keep the granulations from rising above the edge oft .surroundin'! skin. This ncntlenian (in myol I! F | ti \ £ ! If f - 1 fr. i ■ - i | t- L w I t ! Mt i ix Iff I I i I t it iV It II t t t k f If;