517 GONORRHOEA. agreeably sensible to the patient, and the testi- cles often require to be suspended. So irritable, indeed, are they in such cases, that the least accident, or even exercise, which would have no effect of this kind at another time, will make them swell. The glands of the groin are often affected sympathetically, and even swell a little, but, they do not suppurate, as they generally do when they inflame from the absorption of matter. Mr. Hunter has seen the irritation of a gonor- rhoea so extensive as to affect with real pain the thighs, buttocks, and abdominal muscles. He ■ knew one gentleman, who never had a gonor- rhoea without being immediately seized with universal rheumatic pains. When the disorder, exclusive of the affections from sympathy, is not more violent, than has been described, Mr. Hunter termed it a common, or sim])le venereal gonorrhoea ; but, if the patient is very susceptible of such irritation, or of any other mode of action, which may accompany the vene- real, then the symptoms are in proportion more violent. In such circumstances, we sometimes find the irritation and inflammation exceed the specific distance, and extend through the whole urethra. There is often a considerable degree of pain in theperinseum ; and a frequent, though not a constant, symptom, is a spasmodic con- traction of the acceleratores urinoe, and erectores muscles. In these cases, the inflammation is sometimes considerable, and goes deeply into the cellular membrane, but, without producing any effect, except swelling. In other instances, it goes on to suppuration, often becoming one of the causes of fistulae in perinaeo. Thus, Cowper’s glands may suppurate, and the irritation often extends even to the bladder itself. W hen the bladder is affected, it becomes more susceptible of every kind of irritation. It will not bear the usual distention, and, therefore, the patient cannot retain his water the ordinary time; and, the moment the desire of making water takes place, he is obliged instantly to make it, with violent pain in the bladder, and still more in the glans penis, exactly similar to what hap- pens in a fit of the stone. If the bladder be not allowed to discharge its contents immediately, the pain becomes almost intolerable; and even when the water is evacuated, there remains, for some time, a considerable pain, both in the blad- der and glans. Sometimes, though rarely, when the bladder is much affected, the ureters, and even the kid- neys sympathize; and Mr. Hunter had reason for suspecting, that the irritation might be com- municated to the peritonaeum, by means of the vas deferens. Mr. Hunter mentions a case, in which, while • he inflammatory symptoms of a gonorrhoea were abating, an incontinence of urine came on; but, in time, got spontaneously well. x A very common symptom, attending a gonor- rhoea, is a swelling of the testicle. (See Hernia Hammiilis.) Another occasional consequence of a gonor- ihcca, is a sympathetic swelling of the inguinal glands. (See Bubo.) A hard chord is sometimes observed, leading rom the prepuce along the back of the penis, •*n< otten directing its course to one of the groins, and affecting the glands. At the part m the prepuce, where the chord takes its rise, there is most commonly a swelling. This some- times happens when an excoriation and a dis- charge from the prepuce, or glans penis exist. I rom the above account, the symptoms of gonorrhoea, in different cases, seem to be subject to infinite variety. The discharge often appears without any pain ; and the coming on of the pain is not at any stated time after~the appear- ance of the discharge. There is often no pain at all, although the discharge is in considerable quantity, and of a bad appearance. The pain often goes off, while the discharge continues, and will return again. In some cases, an itching is felt for a considerable time, which is sometimes succeeded by pain; though, in many cases, it continues to the end of the disease. On the other hand, the pain is often troublesome, and considerable, even when there is little or no dis- charge. The neighbouring parts sympathize, as the glands of the groin, the testicle, the loins, and pubes, the upper parts of the thighs, and the abdominal muscles. Sometimes the disease ap- pears a few hours after the application of the poison ; sometimes six weeks elapse first. Lastly, it is often impossible to determine, whether the case is a venereal, or only an accidental, dis- charge, prising from some unknown cause. GONOH>BIICEA in women. The disorder is not so easily ascertained in them as in men, because they are subject to a dis- order called Jluor albus, which resembles gonor- rhoea. A discharge simply from women, is less a proof of the existence of a gonorrhoea, than even a discharge without pain in men. The kind of matter does not enable us to distinguish a gonor- rhoea from a fluor albus; for in the latter affec- tion, the discharge often puts on all the appear- ance of venereal matter. Pain is not necessarily present, and therefore forms no line of distinc- tion. The appearance of the parts often gives us but little information; “for,” says Mr.Hunter, “ I have frequently examined the parts of those who confessed all the symptoms, such as increase of discharge, pain in making water, soreness in walking, or when the parts were touched, yet I could see no difference between these and sound parts. I know of no other way of judging, in cases where there are no symptoms sensible to the person herself, or where the patient has a mind to deny any uncommon symptoms, but from the circumstances preceding the discharge.; such as her having been connected with men sup- posed to be unsound, or her being able to give the disorder to others ; which last circumstance, being derived from the testimony oPhnotber per- son, is not always to be trusted to, for obvious reasons.” But, though there may sometimes be great difficulty in forming a judgment of some of these cases, the surgeon may frequently come to a right conclusion by recollecting, as Mr. Dunn has reminded me, that, besides the difference depending on the suddenly severe symptoms of gonorrhoea, fluor albus may be known by the great debility; the sinking ol the stomach; the weariness of the limbs; the pain of the back always increased by the erect posture ; the severe headachs; the painful menstruation, together with the very gradual increase of the disease. Prom the manner, in which the disease is contracted, it must principally attack the vagina,