PUPIL. 955 spoiled by the traumatic inflammation, and the quantity of lymph in the posterior chamber is not so great as to reach above the lesser circle of the uvea. The only other species of corectomia, which I deem it necessary to notice in this Dictionary, is what was proposed, in the year 1811, by the late Mr. Gibson of Manchester. It is described as follows: “ The first step of the operation is to -secure the eyelids, as in the operation for ex- tracting a cataract. A puncture is then to be made in the cornea, with a broad cornea knife, , within a line of the sclerotica, to the extent of about three lines. All pressure is now to be re- : moved from the eyeball, and the cornea knife .gently withdrawn. The consequence of this is, : that a portion of the aqueous humour escapes, and the iris falls into contact with the opening in t the cornea, and closes it, like a valve. A slight pressure must now be made upon the superior and nasal part of the eyeball, with the fore and middle finger of the left hand, till at length, by an occasional and gentle increase of the pressure, or by varying its direction, the iris gradually protrudes, so as to present a bag of the size of a large pin’s head. This protruded portion must be cut off with a pair of fine curved scissars, and all pressure at the same time removed : the iris will then recede within the eye, and the portion, which has been removed, will leave an artificial pupil more or less circular.” (Gibson s Prac- tical Observ. on the Formation of an Artificial Pupil,tyc. London, 1811.) Such was this sur- geon’s mode of operating, when the closure of the pupil was attended with central opacity of the cornea, uncombined with adhesions. The effect of a slight adhesion of the inner border of the iris to the cornea, will be to prevent the protru- sion of the first of these membranes through the puncture in the cornea, which protrusion so much facilitates the operation. In this case, a portion, which does not adhere, must be drawn out with a small hook and then removed. Sometimes the adhesion may be separated at the time of making ' the puncture, and then the iris will protrude. When the whole, or greater part of the inner border of the iris is involved in adhesions to the cornea, these must be separated with the cornea knife after making the puncture, and the iris may then either be drawn out with the hook, or a por- tion of it be removed by means of very minute scissars. In every case, however, the removal of a portion is essential to success. When a cataract is known to exist, which it cannot often be, Mr. Gibson recommends it to be depressed, or broken to pieces ■with the needle, before making the artificial pupil; and, when the whole cornea is transparent, he advises form- ing a flap in the centre of the iris with the cornea knife, and then cutting such flap off with the iris scissars. (Gibson, Op. ciL) Corcdialysis, or the mode of forming an ar- tificial pupil by detaching a portion of the iris from the ciliary ligament, is said to have been devised by Ad. Schmidt and Scarpa about the same time, and has been variously modified by Keisinger, Langenbeck, Himly, Gracfe, nnd others. ( Weller on Diseases of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 65.) According to Beer, this plan of operating is indicated, first only when the coa- gulating lymph, effused in the posterior chamber after the extraction of the cataract, or rcclination, (see this word,) reaches from above the lesser circle of the uvea towards the ciliary processes; a circumstance, which may be known by the con- siderable change of colour in the greater circle of the iris, and by the indistinct manner in which the patient perceives the light. Secondly, when the uvea is everywhere adherent to a secondary capsular cataract, or capsulo-lenticular cataract, or the closure of the pupil has been occasioned by a purulent, or bloody cataract. Whenever the attempt is made in these last cases, however, the patient should be capable, as he sometimes is, of plainly discerning the light. Lastly, core- dialysis is sanctioned by Beer, when the cornea is everywhere incurably opaque, excepting so small a part of it, that it could not be well opened for the excision of a portion of the iris. (B. 2, p. 203.) The feeble union of the iris with the ciliary ligament, and, consequently, the greater facility of detaching its edge from that ligament, with which it is connected, than of lacerating its body, induced Scarpa to try a new method of forming an artificial pupil, when the na- tural one has become too much contracted, or quite obliterated, after the extraction, or depres- sion of the cataract. His method of operating, consists in detaching, by means of a couching needle, a certain extent of the circumference of the iris from the ciliary ligament, without making a section of the cornea. The attempt met with success. The patient being seated, and supported, as if he were about to have the operation for the ca- taract performed, a straight slender couching needle is to be introduced through the sclerotica, at the external angle of the eye, about two lines from the union of this membrane with the cor- nea; and its point is to be pushed as far as the upper and inner edge of the iris; in other words, as far as that side of the iris which is nearest the nose. The needle advances nearly to the ciliary ligament, and the surgeon perforates the internal edge of the iris, at its upper part, so that the point of the instrument scarcely appears in the anterior chamber, because, that part of it being very narrow, the point of the instrument, how- ever little it advance beyond the iris, would enter the substance of the cornea. The moment the needle appears in the anterior chamber, the in- strument must be pressed on the iris from above downward, and from the internal towards the ex- ternal angle, so as to bring it in a parallel line to the anterior surface of the iris, for the purpose of detaching a portion of the edge of this membrane from the ciliary ligament. This separation being effected, the operator must depress the point of the needle, in order to apply it to the inferior nngle of the slit, that he has begun to make. Then the aperture may be enlarged at pleasure, by pushing the iris towards the temple, and withdrawing the needle from before backward, parallel to the anterior surface of the iris, and the greatest axis of the eye. If, when this de- tachment has been accomplished, no opaque body appear at the bottom of the eye, the needle is to be withdrawn altogether. If any portion of opaque capsule left behind after the depression, or extraction of the cataract, should afterwards advance, and present itself in the vicinity of the new pupil, the little opaque membrane must be reduced to fragments, and pushed through the