AMAUROSIS. '23 The second class of causes are supposed to much, and requires a strong reflected light, must operate, by weakening either the whole body, or be considered injurious. Thus reverberating the eye' alone, and they indicate the general or lamps, like Argand’s; a white wall opposite the topical use of tonic remedies. In the first case, windows, and illuminated with the sun’s rays, and thegutta serena appears as a symptom of consi- looking a long while at the moon, or more espe- derable universal debility of the whole system; daily the sun, with the unassisted eye, are cir- in the second case, the disease is altogether local, cumstances likely to bring on the disease. That a Every great general weakness of body, let it flash of lightning, especially when it suddenly proceed from any cause whatsoever, may be fol- wakes a person in the night-time out of a sound lowed by a loss of sight. The gutta serena, if sleep, may produce an amaurotic amblyopia, in we can give credit to the statement of Richter, an irritable eye, or even perfect blindness, is a has sometimes been the consequence of a tedious well known fact, and, it is on the same principle, diarrhoea, a violent cholera morbus, profuse he- that going suddenly out of a dark bed-room im- morrhage, and immoderate salivations. He in- forms us of a dropsical woman, who became blind, on the water being let out of her abdomen. According to the same author, no general weak- ening causes operate upon the eyes, and occasion total blindness, so powerfully and often, as pre- mature and excessive indulgence in venereal pleasures. The causes are various, which operate locally in weakening the eyes. Nothing has a greater tendency to debilitate these organs than keeping them fixed very attentively, for a long while, upon minute objects. But, however long and assiduously objects are viewed, if they are diver- sified, the eye suffers much less than when they are all of the same kind. A frequent change in the objects which we look at has a material effect instrengtheningandrefreshingtheeye. The sight is particularly injured by looking at objects with only one eye at a time, as is done with tele- scopes and magnifying glasses; for when one eye remains shut the pupil of that which is open always becomes dilated beyond its natural diame- ter, and lets an extraordinary quantity of light into the organ. The eye is generally very much hurt, by being employed in the close inspection of brilliant, light-coloured, shining objects. They are greatly mistaken, says Richter, who think, that they save their eyes, when they illuminate the object, which they wish to see, in the evening, with more lights, or with a lamp, that intercepts and collects all the rays of light, and reflects them upon the body which is to be looked at. Riclffcr makes mention of a man, wlio, in the middle of winter, went a journey on horseback, through a snowy country, while the sun was shining quite bright, and who was attacked with aiqaurosis. He speaks of another person, who lost his sight, in consequence of the chamber, in which he lay, being suddenly illuminated by a vivid flash of lightning. A man was one night seized with blindness, while he had his eyes fixed on the moon in a fit of contemplation. Richter also expresses his belief, that a concussion of the head, from external violence, may sometimes operate directly on the nerves, so as to weaken and ren- der them completely paralytic. I rofessor Beer corroborates the foregoing statement; for, lie says, amongst the most fre- quent causes is to be considered every abuse of t e eyesight, especially in dark-eved persons, as a long and close inspection of one object, parti- cularly with a microscope, when the thing ex- amined is very brilliant, or reflects back much 'g t into the eye. Hence, the view of jewels at mg't,and long journeys through snowy countries, c- are conducive to the disease. In this respect, -very kind 0j employment which strains the eyes mediately after waking in the morning into an apartment that commands an open extensive prospect must be hurtful to an irritable eye, though the bad effects may only be very slow. Here is also to be included every kind of over irri- tation of the eye by light, as happens to typhoid patients, when they lie with their eyes open all the day in a large sunny chamber. Very often the cause of amaurosis consists in local or constitutional debility, proceeding from impairment of the nerves in general, or of the nerves of the head, especially those of the forehead and eyebrow; either from a concussion of the spinal marrow, falls from a considerable height with the weight of the whole body upon the heels; con- cussions of the eye-ball, sometimes caused by vio- lent artificially excited sneezing, but more general- ly by contusions of the eye with blunt weapons, &c. If we are to believe Beer, and other foreign prac- titioners, considerable direct weakness may arise from cholera, long continued diarrhoea, sali- vation, and the incessant spitting of tobacco- smokers ; bleedings; injudicious tapping of the abdomen; excessive indulgence in venery, and the misemployment of issues. A general debility, which has the worst effect on the eyes, may also arise from long trouble ; tedious vexation, and worldly cares, especially when the diet is poor and bad; also from a deficiency of proper food; long watching; violent and sudden fright; im- prudently washing the eyes with very cold water, especially when they are already wealcish and ir- ritable; and keeping them long in a dark place, particularly, when they are also exerted a good deal in some particular kinds of labour, a case which Beer says is very frequent in Vienna. The amaurosis, following typhus, without any unusual irritation of the eye by light, Beer also refers to general debility. (Lehre tun den Augenkr. B. 2. />. 449.) The third class of causes consists of irrita- tions, which in some inexplicable way affect the optic nerves, and render them insensible of the impression of the light. Most of these irritations are asserted to lie in the abdominal viscera, whence they sympathetically operate upon the eyes. The observations of Richter, Scarpa, and Schmucker, all tend to confirm, that amaurosis more frequently arises from irritation in the gastric organs, than any other cause what- ever. It may often be ascertained, that patients with amaurosis have suffered much trouble, and long grief, or been agitated with repeated vexa- tions, anger, and other passions, which are sup- posed to have a great effect in disordering the bilious secretion, and the digestive lunctions in general. Richter tells us of a man, who lost his sight, a few hours after being in a violent pas-