340 . CORNEA. The bad consequences of bruises are not inva- riably proportioned to the force which has ope- rated ; much depends on the nature and situa- tion oi the part. When a contusion takes place on a bone, which is thinly covered with soft parts, the latter always sutler very severely, in consequence of being pressed, at the time of the accident, between two hard bodies. Hence, bruises of the shin so frequently cause sloughing and troublesome sores. Contusions affecting the large joints are always serious cases; the in- flammation occasioned is generally obstinate, and abscesses and other diseases, which may follow, are proper grounds for serious alarm. In the treatment of bruises, the practitioner has three indications, which ought successively to claim his attention. The first is to prevent and diminish the in- flammation, which, from the violence done, must be expected to arise. The bruised parts should be kept perfectly at rest, and be covered with linen, constantly wet with the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus. When muscles are bruised, they are to be kept in a relaxed position, and never used. If the bruise should have been very violent, it will be proper to apply leeches, and this re- peatedly, and even in some cases, particularly, when the joints are contused, to take blood from the arm. In every instance, the hotels should be kept well open with saline purgatives. A second object in the cure of contusions, is to promote the absorption of the extravasated fluid by discutient applications. These may at once be employed in all ordinary contusions, not attended with too much violence; for then no- thing is so beneficial as maintaining a continual evaporation from the bruised part, by means of the cold saturnine lotion, and, at the same time, repeatedly applying leeches. In common bruises, however, the Lotio ammonia: muriates (see this article,) is an excellent discutient application; but most surgeons are in the habit of ordering liniments for all ordinary contusions, and cer- tainly they do so much good in accelerating the absorption of the extravasated blood, that the practice is highly praiseworthy. Thelinimentum saponis, or the linimentum camphorae, are as good as any that can be employed. (See Linimentum.) In many cases, unattended with any threaten- ing appearances of inflammation, but in which there is a good deal of blood and fluid extrava- sated, bandages act very beneficially, by the re- markable power which they have of exciting the action of the lymphatics, by means of the pres- sure which they produce. A third object in the treatment of contusions, is to restore the tone of the parts. Rubbing theparts with liniments has a good deal of effect in this way. But, notwithstanding such applications, it is often observed, that bruised parts continue for a long while weak, and even swell, and become cede- matous, when the patient takes exercise, or al- lows them to hang down, as their functions in life may require. Pumping cold water two or three, times a day, on a part thus circumstanced, is the very best measure which can be adopted. A bandage should also be worn, if the situa- tion of the part will permit. These steps, toge- ther with perseverance in the use of liniments, and in exercise gradually increased, will soon bring every thing into its natural state again. CORNEA TUNICA, (from cornu, a horn.) The anterior transparent convex part of the eye, which in texture is tough like horn. It has a structure peculiar to itself, being composed of a number of concentric cellular lamellae, in the cells of which is deposited a particular sort of fluid. It is covered externally by a continuation of the conjunctiva, which belongs to the class of mucous membranes; and it is lined by a mem- brane, the tunica humoris aquei, which seems to belong to the serous class. FLESHY EXCRESCENCES OF THF. CORNEA. Mr. Wardrop, in his Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, has published an ex- cellent chapter on this subject. Besides pterygia, which are treated of in another part of this dic- tionary, Mr. Wardrop states, that the cornea is subject to two kinds of caruncles, or fleshy ex- crescences. One appears at birth, or soon after it, and resembles the ncevi materni so frequent on the skin of various parts of the body. The second is described, as having a greater analogy to the fungi, which grow from mucous surfaces, and being in general preceded by ulceration. Of the congenital excrescence of the cornea, Mr. Wardrop has seen two remarkable instances. The first was in a girl, eight, or ten years of age, on whose left eye, there was a conical mass, the base of which grew from about two- thirds of the cornea, and a small portion of the adjoining sclerotic coat. The second example occurred in a patient upwards of fifty years old. The tumor had been observed from birth, was about as large as a horse-bean, and only a small portion of it seemed to grow from the cornea. The other part was situated on the white of the eye, next the tem- poral angle of the orbit. From the middle of the excrescence, upwards of twelve long firm hairs grew, and hung over the cheek. Mr. Wardrop acquaints us, that a similar tu- mor, with two hairs growing out of it, was seen at Lisbon by Dr. Barron, of St. Andrews. Mr. Cramnton also mentions, that he once saw a “ tuft of very strong hairs proceeding from the sclerotica.’’ (Essay on the Entropeon, p. 7.) And De Gazelles met with an instance, in which a single hair grew from the cornea. (Journ. de Medecinc, Tom. 24.) According to Mr. Ward- rop, this species of excrescence of the cornea greatly resembles the spots, covered with hair, which are frequent on various parts of the sur- face of the body. With regard to the second kind of tumor growing from the cornea, a fungus, proceeding from an ulcer of this part of the eye, is stated to be very uncommon. However, it is said, that, when a portion of the iris protrudes through an ulcer of the cornea, the growth of a large ex- crescence from the projecting part is not so un- usual. Of such, a disease, Mr. Wardrop has cited examples from Maitrc Jean'} Trait( des ]\Ialadies dcs yeux, Voigtcl, Beer, and Plaichr.er. Excrescences, growing from the cornea, arc also quoted from the following works ; Handhuchdcr