PTE 946 PTE a few cases, it is necessary to touch the ulcers, formed on the edge of the eyelid, after tho small- pox, with tho argentum nitratum. When the globe of the eye is inflamed, the vinous tinctuie of opium is applied, as directed in the article Ophthalmy. In scrophulous subjects, alterative medicines; an issue, or perpetual blister; and attention to diet, ixc. are proper. ^See Wore on Ophthalmy, <^r.) In the treatment of psorophthalmy, Beer lays considerable stress upon the necessity of cleanli- ness. The itchy places he directs to be fre- quently washed with a tepid infusion of scordium, and afterwards well dried. When the uneasiness and tension of the skin are thus quite removed, Beer adds to the preceding infusion some of the sulphuret of potash, the proportion being at first small, and gradually increased. This plan is to be followed, until the ulcerations dry and the scabs fall oft' of themselves, leaving the sub- jacent skin yet red and sensible, and sometimes moist; in this state, a small bit of the annexed salve may be smeared with a camel-hair pencil along the edges of the eyelids, and -upon the affected points of the skin: fj,. Butyri recentis insulsi, Jss. Cupri Sulphatis, gr. x. Camphorre, gr. iv. Tutiae ptt. gr. vj. Misce. If the disease prove obstinate, Beer recommends Hufeland’s salve, which consists of equal parts of fresh butter, yellow wax, and the pulv. hydrarg. nitrico-oxydi rubr.; and, in still more inve- terate cases, Janin’s eye salve, which, he says, must rarely be used oftener, than every other day. In the psorophthalmy, conjectured by Beer to depend upon the sudden cure of the itch, he states, that internal medicines are ne- cessary, as antimonials, joined with sulphur and camphor. He also praises sulphur baths, and irritating the part of the skin, where the itch has receded, by the application of antimonial oint- ment; or, if such part should be very far from the eyes, he advises such ointment to be rubbed on the skin behind the ears. Attention to diet is particularly enjoined, and eating pork, lard, and substances difficult of digestion, is prohibited. (I?. \,p. 569, Sec.) PTERYGIUM, (dim. of tart awing.) As Scarpa remarks, surgeons usually apply the term “ pterygium” to that preternatural, red- dish, ash-coloured, triangular little membrane, which most frequently grows from the internal angle of the eye, near the caruncula lachrymalis, and gradually extends over the cornea, so as to cause considerable impediment to vision. The disease, however, presents itself some- times in the form of a semitransparent thin grey- ish membrane, not furnished with many visible vessels; -and sometimes as a thick, red, fibrous mass, very like muscle, being very prominent even on the cornea, where it seems to terminate in a substance like tendon, and it is observed to be pervaded by’ numerous blood vessels. The first is the pterygium tenne, of Beer; the se- cond the pterygium crastum (Lehrc von dm Augenkr. B. ‘i, p. 636), or, the membranous and fleshy pterygia of other writers. Though the pterygium most commonly pro- ceeds from the internal angle, (also Beet, Ji. 2, p. 637) it is observed to arise sometimes from the external one, and, in some instances, fiom the superior or inferior hemisphere of the eye- ball. But, whatever be its origin, its figure is invariably that of a triangle, with its base on the white of the eye, and its apex more or less ad- vanced over tiie cornea, towards its centre, and that of the pupil. Indeed, there are a few cases, in which two, or three pterygia of different sizes occur on the same eye, and are arranged round its circumference at interspaces of various breadths. Their points are directed towards the centre of the cornea, and if they should un- fortunately conjoin there, the whole of that transparent membrane becomes covered with an opaque veil, and a total loss of sight is the con- sequence. It seems to Scarpa, that the term “ punnns" was applied by the ancients to ex- actly this sort of complication. However, the occurrence of more than one ptery'gium on the same eye, is uncommon, as may be inferred from the experienced Beer having met with but two cases of a double pterygium, and with only one instance of three pterygia on the eye. (B. 2, p. 638.) According to Scarpa, (whose observations apply chiefly to the membrauous form of the disease) chronic varicous ophthahny, with re- laxation, and thickening of the conjunctiva; opacity of the cornea; and the ptery’gium ; only differ in the degree of the disease. In reality, all the three complaints consist of a more or less extensive varicous state of the vessels of the conjunctiva, combined with a degree of preter- natural relaxation, and thickening of that mem- ' brane. In chronic varicous ophthalmy, the extraordi- nary amplitude, and knottiness of the vessels; the flaccidity, and thickening of the conjunctiva; are limited to the white of the eye. In opacity • of the cornea, certain veins even dilate, and be- come knotty, tor some way, over that delicate layer of the conjunctiva, which is continued over the surface of the cornea. In the pterygium, an extraordinary’ swelling of this subtile membra- nous expansion is added to the varicous state of its veins. Hence, the ptery’gium seems at first like a new membrane formed on the cornea, while it is really nothing more, than the delicate continuation of the conjunctiva just mentioned, deprived of its transparency, and degenerated, in consequence of chronic ophthalmy’, into a thick, opaque membrane, on which there is a plexus of varicous blood vessels. Consequently, in the case of pterygium, there is no new production of the eye, but only’ an alteration of one of the thin transparent membranes, which naturally cover it. The following circumstance, as will be more fully explained presently, illustrates, say’s Scarpa, the veracity of the preceding statement. The inci- pient pterygium may be cured in the same man- ner as opacity’ of the cornea, viz. by merely cut- ting oft' that portion of it, which is situated at the junction of the cornea with the sclerotica, without detaching the whole of it from the sur- face of the former membrane ; just as is prac- tised in the opacity of the cornea, in order to destroy the communication of the varicous veins of the conjunctiva with their trunks, the ramifi- cations of which produce, and maintain the dis- ease. Scarpa observes, (hat the pterygium would b-