560 HARE-LIP. cumstances which cannot be favourable to the union of the wound; and though they may not commonly be serious enougli to prevent union by the first intention, they might occasionally tend, with any other untoward occurrence, to hinder this desirable event Let not practitioners here be led by Mr. B. Bell’s statement, that in one instance he cut off one side of the fissure with a knife, and the other with scissars; that the latter cut produced least pain, and that on this side there was no more swelling nor inflam- mation than on the opposite one. The pins should be introduced at least two- thirds of the way through the substance of the lip, lest a furrow should remain on the inside of the part, which might prove troublesome, by al- lowing pieces of food to lodge in it. There is, however, a stronger reason for attending to this circumstance, viz. the hemorrhage which may take place when it is neglected. As soon as the edges of the wound have been brought together by means of the suture, and the pins are properly placed, the bleeding almost always ceases; but, w'hen the pins have not been introduced deeply enough, and the posterior surfaces of the incisions are not applied to each other, the blood may con- tinue to run into the mouth, and give the surgeon an immense deal of trouble. In the memoir, written by Louis, there is a case, in which the pa- tient died in consequence of such an accident. Persons who had undergone the operation, were always advised to swallow their spittle, even though mixed with blood, in order to avoid dis- turbing the wound, by getting rid of it otherwise. In the case alluded to, the patient, who had been operated upon for a cancerous affection of the lip, swallowed the blood as he had been directed to do, and he bled so profusely that he died. On the examination of the body, the stomach, and small intestines were found full of blood. “ This deplorable case,” says the illustrious author who relates it, “ deserves to be recorded for public instruction, for the purpose of keeping alive the attention of surgeons on all occasions, where, in consequence of any operation whatsoever, there is reason to apprehend bleeding in the cavity of the mouth. Platner is the only writer who, as far as I know, foresaw this kind of danger The bleeding from the edges of the wound stops of itself, (says he) as soon'as they have been brought into contact, and stitched together; but, care must be taken that the patient does not swallow the blood, which might make him vomit, or else suffocate him. Hence, his head should be ele- vated, that the blood may escape externally, a precaution more particularly necessary in young children.” Having described the mode of operating for the hare-lip, ns approved of by the generality of practitioners, and detailed every thing which seemed material, I have now only to explain the method adopted by M. Louis. His sentiments, respecting several particular points of the opera- tion, have been already stated ; and an account of the means, which he emp oyed, in lieu of the twisted suture, for uniting the edges of the wound, is all that remains to be noticed. Several bandages for supporting the two por- tions of the divided lip, and lessening the pres- sure, which they make against the pins, have been mentioned by authors. Franco and Quesnay, in particular, describe two kinds. These means were not only employed as auxiliary, but even sometimes as curative ones, when it was impos- sible to use needles. To such bandages, too complicated and too uncertain, in their effect, M. Louis prefers a simple linen roller, one inch wide, three ells long, and rolled up into two unequal heads. He begins with applying the body of this bandage to the middle of the forehead ; he un- rolls the two heads, from before backward, above the ears, between the upper part of the cartilage, and the cranium, in order to let them cross on the nape of the neck, and then pass forwards again. The assistant, who supports the head, and pushes forward the cheeks, must lift up the ends of his fingers, in the place of which, on each side, a thick compress is to be put. This being covered, and pushed from behind forward, by the roller, will constantly perform the office of the assistant’s fingers, who is to continue to support the appara- tus, until it is all completely applied. The longest of the two heads of the roller, being slit in two places near the lip, presents two parallel openings ; the remnant of the shortest one is di- vided into two parts, as far as its ends. The two little narrow bands, in which it terminates, must then pass through the openings of the for- mer, and cross upon the middle of the lip. The ends of the roller, being carried from before backward, are then to be made to cross again on the nape of the neck, where the shortest is to end. The remainder of the long one is to be employed in making turns round the head. This bandage may be still more securely fixed by means of a piece of tape, which is to pass the forehead, over the sagittal suture, and be pinned at each end to the circumvolutions of the roller; while a second piece of tape is to cross the first one at the top of the head, and also to be attached, at its ex- tremities, to the uniting bandage, and the com- presses placed under the zygomatic arches, for the purpose of pushing forward the cheeks. This bandage is extremely simple, and would promise great advantages, if the twisted suture were unknown to practitioners. I think, this last means will always be the favourite of the practical surgeon, because the desired effect can be produced by it, with much less trouble, than must be taken with the bandage, in order to ren- der the operation of the latter sufficiently certain. Besides, as I have noticed, M. Louis himself' mostly made one stitch near the red part of the lip, so that he cannot be said to have trusted al- together to the bandage. "However, as an auxiliary to the twisted suture, and a means of preventing the parts from being drawn to each side of the face so forcibly, as to create a risk of the pins cutting their way out by ulceration, a thick compress, applied to each cheek, and pressed forwards with a bandage, is still very usefully employed. What has been said, concerning the operatio for the hare-lip, is equally applicable, not only to the treatment of cancer of the lip, but also ti that of accidental cuts, or lacerations, of thi part, from any cause whatsoever. We shad only remark that, in a recent wound, all the surgeo has to do, is to apply the twisted suture, an adhesive plaster, without delay.