VARICOSE VEINS. II33 some authors, for the diminution of very old, enormous, omental ruptures, would here be equally applicable; viz. long confinement in bed upon the back, with the buttocks somewhat elevated; unremitting, well directed external pressure; a very low diet; and repeated mer- curial purges. During pregnancy, a prolapsus of the whole substance of the vagina may cause much em- barrassment and even danger. In one case of ■ this description, where the protrusion was five inches in length, it became necessary to turn the child, and the displaced vagina was lacerated. The woman, however, recovered. (Pictsch, Journal de Med. T. 34.) In another instance, ■ where the prolapsus became, at eacli return of : the labour-pains, as large as a man’s head, the [ practitioner succeeded in holding the parts back, -while delivery was effected with the aid of the forceps. (See Loder’s Journ. 1 B. p. 490.) When this is impracticable, it is necessary, ac- cording to Richter, to make an incision through both sides of the prolapsus; a measure, says he, to which the practitioner may the more readily make up his mind, inasmuch as the parts have, n some cases, been lacerated, without any ill consequences. A prolapsus of the inner membrane of the vagina, while small and recent, might perhaps je removed by astringent applications. When, towever, it is of long standing, indurated, and a; v>f large size, much expectation of success from his treatment cannot be entertained. Richter :ees no reason why, in such a case, the super- luous relaxed part should not be cut away, specially, if the disease be accompanied with dceration, and other serious complaints. As ic observes, there can be no doubt, that a pro- .apsus of the inner membrane of the vagina, ,j vhen limited to one part of this canal, may al- M /ays be safely extirpated, either with a knife, or ligature. (Anfai/gsgr. dcr Wundarzn. IS. , Chap. 4.) As the swelling of the membranous lining of his passage is folded back on itself, it sometimes lcreases in such a degree, that the tumor falls Ho a state of mortification. In this event, some riters have advised the extirpation of the swell- .ig, justifying the practice, on the authority of xme distinguished practitioners, and the little »inger attendant on the operation. Even Sabatier only objects to this proceeding, in the ground of the danger of mistaking a pro- psus of the uterus, for one of the vagina. I towever, no modern surgeons in this country ould hesitate about rejecting such an operation, id leaving the sloughs to. separate of them- fl Ives. The prolapsus, arising from a hernia in the igina, can only be ascertained by attending to e symptoms, which characterize this sort of ‘pture. See Hernia. Consult particularly Sabatier, Made cine Ope- •foire, T. 2, p. 486, §c. Edit. 2. Richter, nfangxgrunde der lVundarzneykun.it, B. 7, up. 4. VARICOCE'LE. (from varix, a distended :1I‘> ar>d atiArj, a tumor). Many writers mean the term varicocele, a varicose enlargement the spermatic veins, which latter affection, I ;;0d fl have, with Celsus and Pott, treated of under the name of Cirsoccle. Pott remarks, that the varicocele (which is an enlargement and distention of the blood-vessels of the scrotum) is very seldom an original dis- ease, independent of any other, and, when it is, is hardly an object of surgery. The blood- vessels of the scrotum are of different size in different people; and like the vessels in other parts of the body, are liable to become varicose; but, they are seldom so much enlarged, as to be troublesome, unless such enlargement is the con- sequence of a disease, either of the testicle, or spermatic chord. When this is the case, the original disease is what engages our attention, and not this simple effect of it; and, therefore, considered abstractedly, the varicocele is a dis- ease of no importance. (Pott's Chirurgical Works, Vol. 2.) VARICOSE ULCER. See Ulcer, and Varicose Veins. VARICOSE VEINS. The term, varix, is applied by surgeons to the permanently dilated state of a vein, attended with an accumulation of dark-coloured blood, the circulation of which is materially retarded in the affected vessel. When veins are varicose, they are not only dilated, they are also evidently elongated; for, besides being irregular, and in several places studded with knots, they make a variety of windings, and, coiling themselves, form actual tumors from the assemblage of their convolutions in one particular place. When the branches of a vein, thus dilated and elongated, are numerous, and confined to a certain part of the body, they constitute a very distinct swelling. Indeed, when the diseased vessels are situated near the integuments, the surgeon can feel, and even see, their tortuous course. These things, for in- stance, are remarkably obvious in the vena sa- phena interna, in which the affection is particu- larly common. This vessel may be observed to form in its course several of these swellings, in the interspaces of which, it runs in a very ser- pentine manner. Varices are most commonly observed in the lower extremities, reaching sometimes even as far up as the abdomen. They have however been noticed in the upper extremities, and, it is probable, that the whole venous system is sus- ceptible of the affection. As a well informed writer observes; “ The great venous trunks sometimes become varicose. When the disease is situated near the heart, it is attended with pul- sation, which renders it liable to be mistaken for aneurism. Morgagni observed, that the jugular veins were occasionally very much dilated, and possessed a pulsation. (Letter 8, art. 9, 10, 11.) He also, relates a case, in which the vena azygos, for the length of a span, was so much dilated, that it might be compared with the vena cava. The patient died suddenly in consequence of the rupture of this varix into the right side of the chest. (Letter 26, art. 29.) A similar case is related by Portal, who also mentions an in- stance, in which the right subclavian vein was excessively dilated and burst into the chest. (Cours d' Anatomic Medicate, tom. 3, p, 3 54 .‘373.) Mr. Cline described in his lectures the case of a woman, who had a large pulsating tu-