856 NOLI ME TANGERE. from the virulence of their disposition, noli me tangere, and are very nearly allied to cancer; differing from it in not contaminating the neigh- bouring parts by absorption, but only spreading by immediate contact. Ulcers of this kind differ exceedingly from one another in their degree of virulence; but they are all so fur of the same nature, that arsenic in general agrees with them, and puts a stop to their progress, while they are aggravated by milder dressings. (llomc on Ulcers, Edit. 2,jp. 267.) The disease generally commences with small tubercles, which change after a time into super- ficial, spreading ulcerations on the alae of the nose, more or less concealed beneath furfu- raceous scabs. The whole nose is frequently destroyed by the progressive ravages of this peculiar disorder, which sometimes cannot be stopped or retarded by any treatment, external or internal. The specific ulcerations do not generally ex- tend to the parts far within the nostrils; but, at the time that I am writing this article, there is, under Sir L. Harvey, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, a curious example, in which the greatest part of the nose is destroyed, and the ulceration proceeds even through the front part of the palate into the mouth. The morbid pro- cess sometimes stops for a considerable time, and then is renewed with increased violence. The following case illustrates the nature of noli me tangere, and one mode of treatment, to which it yielded. Jane Chatillon, 45 years of age, was attacked, in the course of September, 1788, with an inflammation on the left ala of the nose. Some time afterwards the part ulcerated, which occasioned a troublesome and sometimes a pain- ful itching : different means were unsuccessfully employed, and the case remained nearly in the same situation till the month of September in the following year. At this period, the ulcer spread very fast; the septum nasi, the muscles, and cartilages of both sides, were, in a short space of time, destroyed. The ulceration extended on the left side, along the loose edge of the upper-lip. This was the state of her case on her admission into the Hospital of, St. Louis, in the month of October, 1789. • A poultice moistened with aq. veg. was applied twice a day to the ulcer; a sudorific ptisan pre- scribed. and a pill, composed of one grain of calomel, and one grain of sulph. aurat. antimonii, ordered to be taken every day. From the fifth day, the inflammation lessened. No other sen- sible alteration took place till the 21st. The suppuration, which, till this time, had been black and putrid, now became white and inodorous. On the 37th, the discharge was trifling, and the part was dressed with pledgets, dipped in a solution of verdigris and corrosive sublimate, in the proportion of six grains of each to a pint of water. On the 40th day, cicatrization beiran to take place, and was finished iby the 60th. Some time before the disease was completely cicatrized, an issue was made in the arm, which was healed up, without any inconvenience to the patient, six months after the cure. (/ ari stall Chirurgical JourrtUl, Vol. 1.) One of the best external applications to noli me tangere is the following lotion: ft. Kali arsenicati, gr. iv. Aq. menthae sativae, |iv. Spiritus vini tenuioris, jj. Misce et cola. I have seen several cases' in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, which were either cured or seemed disposed to get well with this useful application. The solution of arsenic, which Sir E. Home has always used, is made by boiling white arsenic in water for several hours, in a sand heat. When given internally, the dose is from three to ten drops; when for external application, a dram is to be diluted with Jjpj. of water; and this solu- tion is gradually made stronger, as the parts be- come accustomed to it, till it is of double strength. However, this mode of using arsenic is by no means a well regulated one; and Plunket’s caustic (see Arsenic) for outward employment, is not nearly so neat an application as the above- mentioned lotion. At St. Bartholomew’s Hos- pital, arsenic is administered internally in the following formula: ft. Kali arsenicati, gr. ij. Aquae menthae sativae, ^iv. Spiritus vin. ten. |j. Misce et cola. Dosis Jij. ter quotidie. In this way, the quantity of arsenic is nicely determined. We shall only just add, with regard to this me- dicine, that, both as an external application and an inward remedy, in cases of noli me tangere, it perhaps deserves the highest rank. One scruple of the argentum nitratum, dissolved in half an ounce of distilled water, makes a very good ap- plication, which, although generally inferior, in point of efficacy, to arsenical ones, in the present disease, occasionally does good, when nothing else seems to produce any benefit. The above case makes us acquainted with another lotion, which deserves further trial. All fluid remedies must be applied to the part, by dipping little bits of lint in them, placing these on the ulcerations, and covering the whole with a pledget. The ointments, which seem most likely to prove useful applications to noli me tungere, are the uriguentum hydrargyri nitrati, the unguentum picis, and unguentum sulphuris. As far as my experience extends, they are generally less ef- ficacious than lotions in the present cases; but, in particular instances, they prove superiorly useful, and it deserves especial notice, that sur- geons can often make no progress against this inveterate disease, unless they apply a different sort of dressing every day; sometimes a lotion ; at other times, an ointment. The little ulcers may occasionally be touched with the argentum nitratum. The small furfuiaceous scabs, which are continually forming on the part affected, should be softened with a little of the unguentum spermatis ceti, and removed with as much ten- derness as possible. We have already remarked, that arsenic is a good medicine to be given internally, and the best mode of exhibiting it has been already ex- plained. Another medicine, which is often useful in these cases, is what is known by the name of Plummer’s pill, or the compound calomel pill, ft. Hydrargyri submuriatis, sulphuris antimonii praecipitati, singulorum gr. xii. Guaiaci gunitni resina;, gr. xxiv. Saponis quod satis sit. Misce; fiant pilulae duodecim. Dosis una bis quotidie. —In other instances, we may try the decoctum ulmi, or sarsaparillae, with one of the following pills thrice a day: ft.. Hydrargyri submuriatis gr. vj. Succi spissati cicut® 3,1* Misce; fiant pilul® duodecim. The hydrargvrus sulphuratus