FRACTURES. The cushion being thus placed in the arm-pit, and the fore-arm bent, Desault used to take hold of the patient’s elbow, and carry it forward, up- ward, and inward, pressing it forcibly against the breast. By this manoeuvre, the humerus carries the shoulder outward, the ends of the fracture become situated opposite each other, and all deformity is removed. An assistant is to support the arm in this position, while the surgeon, having a single- headed roller nine yards long, is to place one end of it in the arm-pit of the opposite side, and thence apply the bandage over the upper part of the arm, and across the back to the same situa- tion. The arm and trunk are to be covered with such circles of the roller, as far down as the elbow, drawing the bandage more tightly, the lower it descends. Compresses, dipped in camphorated spirit, are next to be placed along the fractured bone. Desault then took a second roller, of the same length as the first, and put one end of it under the opposite arm-pit, whence it was carried across the breast over the compress and fracture, then down behind the shoulder and arm, and, after having passed under the elbow, upward on the breast. Desault next brought it across to the sound shoulder, under and round which he passed it, for the purpose of fixing the first turn. He then conveyed the roller across the back, brought it over the compresses, carried it down in front of the shoulder and arm, under the elbow, and obliquely behind the back to the arm- pit, where the application began. The same plan was repeated, until all the roller was spent. The apparatus was secured by pins, wherever they promised to be useful, and the patient’s hand was kept in a sling. Boyer has invented an apparatus for fractured clavicles, which is more simple, than that em- ployed by Desault. The cushion is to be applied under the arm. The apparatus consists of a girdle of linen cloth, which passes round the trunk on a level with the elbow. It is fixed on by means of three straps, and as many buckles. At an equal distance from its extremities are placed externally on each side two buckles, two before and two behind the arm. On the lower part of the arm, is to be laced a piece of quilted cloth, five or six fingers broad. Four straps are attached to it, which correspond to the buckles on the outside of the girdle, and serve' both to keep the arm close to the trunk, and from moving either backward, or forward. Certainly, the methods recommended by De- sault and Boyer are very judicious and scientific. They are not, however, much adopted in this country, perhaps in consequence of the general aversion among English surgeons to every ap- paratus, which is not exceedingly simple. It is to be hoped, at the same time, that, in the treat- ment of fractured clavicles, they will always attend to the principles which Desault and Boyer have inculcated. If they understand why the position of the arm should be such as these emi- nent surgeons point out, they, will have no dif- ficulty in doing what is proper, and with a cush- ion, sling, and a couple of rollers, they will easily maintain the proper posture. I cannot quit this subject without cautioning j surgeons never to fall ‘into the error of sup- posing the rising end of a broken clavicle to be I the end which is displaced. This is the one, I which is truly in its right situation, and which j has often been tnade, by injudicious pressure, to protrude through the integuments, as I myself have seen. FRACTURES OF THE OS RRACHII, OR HUMEKCS. I This bone maybe fractured at any point of its length : at its middle, either of its extremities, or above the insertion of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major. The last case is termed fracture of the neck of the humerus ; but that denomination has not the merit of being strictly anatomical. It is possible, however, that what is strictly called the neck of the humerus ma}' he fractured, particularly, by a eun-shot wound. By neck of the humerus, we understand that circular narrowing, which separates the tu- berosities from the head. The fractures of this bone may be transverse or oblique, simple or compound. Tranverse | fractures of its middle part, below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, are attended with but little displacement; for the brachialis internus and the triceps, being attached posteriorly and an- teriorly to both fragments, counteract one an- other, and admit only a slight angular displace- ment. When the fracture takes place above the insertion of the deltoid muscle, the inferior por- tion is first drawn outward and then upward on the external side of the superior. Fractures of the humerus, near its lower end, such particularly as are transverse, are not subject to much dis- placement : a circumstance to be attributed to the breadth of the fractured surfaces; to their being covered posteriorly by the triceps muscle, and, anteriorly, by the brachialis internus, which admit only a slight angular displacement, by the inferior portion being drawn a little forward. Oblique fractures are always attended with dis- placement, whatever be the part of the bone broken. The inferior portion being drawn up- ward by the action of the deltoides, biceps, co- raco-braehialis, and long portion of the triceps, glides easily on the superior, and passes above its lower extremity. Finally, fractures of the neck of the humerus are always attended with displacement, produced by the action of the pec- toralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, which being attached to the lower portion near its superior extremity, draw it first inward and then upward, in which last direction it is power- fully urged by the biceps, coraco brachialis, and long portion of the triceps. In this case, the superior portion itself is directed a little outward by the action of the infraspinatus, supraspinatus, and teres minor, which make the head of the hu- merus perform a rotatory motion in the glenoid cavity. _ j The shortening and change in the direction of ; the limb, the crepitus, which may be very di- j stinctlv perceived by moving the broken pieces in j opposite directions, the pain, and impossibility of moving the arm, &c. joined to the history of the case, render the diagnosis sufficiently plain, i Fractures of the neck of the humerus, hqw*