452 FRACTURES. situation, rises over the lower one. But, on the least reflection, it becomes manifest, that the upper end of the fracture projects only because the lower one is displaced, and drawn towards that side on which the strongest muscles are situated. Thus, in practice, in order to make the rising end of the bone, (as it was termed) disappear, it is only necessary to reduce the lower fragment into its natural place. If instead of doing this, pressure is made on the projfect- iilg part, the design fails; and if the plan be still more forcibly pursued and continued, in- flammation, and sloughing, of the integuments and other soft parts, are likely to be the unfor- tunate consequences. 5. In respect to circumstances, with which frac- tures are accompanied. The most important division of fractures is into simple and compound. By a simple fracture, surgeons mean a breach in the continuity of one, or more bones, without any external wound,. communicating internally with the fracture, and caused by the protrusion of , the ends of the broken bone, or bones. By a compound fracture, they signify the same sort of injury of a bone, or bones, attended with a lace- ration of the integuments, which laceration is produced by the protrusion of one, or both ends of the fracture. The dangerous nature of compound fractures will be fully explained in the sequel of this ar- ticle, and we have already adverted to the sub- ject in speaking of Amputation. Fractures are said to be complicated, when they are attended with diseases, or accidents, which render the indications in the treatment more numerous, and require the employment of different remedies, or the practice of sundry ope- rations, for the accomplishment of the cure. Thus, fractures may be complicated with se- vere degrees of contusion, wounds of the soft parts, the injury of large blood-vessels, a dislo- cation, or disease, such as the scurvy, rickets, lues venerea, &e. which are said to retard the formation of callus, and render the cure more backward. The complication of fracture with dislocation happens but seldom, and it cannot occur, unless the luxation has taken place first, or has been produced at the same time with the fracture, and by the same cause. When once the fracture has happened, tlie fragments are not sufficiently within the grasp of external force, and are too moveable to admit of the bone being dislocated. A patient with fracture may be attacked by an acute disease, which may render the treat- ment more troublesome, and the cure slower. 2. Causes of Fractures. The causes of fractures are divided into pre- disposing and remote. In the first class are comprehended, the situa- tion and functions of the bones, the age of the patients, and their diseases. Superficial bones are more easily fractured, than those which are covered by a considerable quantity of soft parts. The functions of some bones render them more liable to be fractured, than others; thus the ra- dius, which supports the hand, is more liable to be fractured, than the ulna. The clavicle, which serves to keep the shoulder in its proper position, and support oa its arched extremity all the motions of the upper ext remit)’, is particularly subject to be broken. The g radual increase of the quantity of the phosphate of lime, in the struc- ture of the bones, makes them brittle, in pro- portion as we advance in years, and, in old age, the proportion of the inorganized to the organi- zed part is so great, that the bones are fractured by the slightest causes. In childhood, the fi- brous and organized part bears a greater propor- tion to the earth, and the bones being, conse- quently, more elastic-and flexible, are not so easily broken, as in old age. Lues venerea, arthritis, cancer, rachitis, scurvy, and scrofula, says Leveille, predispose to frac- tures. B. Bell mentions two venereal patients, of whom the hardest and largest bones were com- pletely broken by the ordinary getion of the mus- cles of the limb. Fabricius Hildanus quotes from Sarazin, a physician of Lyons, the case of a gouty patient, sixty years of age, who, in put- ting on his glove, broke his arm ; the fracture having been ascertained, three days afterwards, to be situated above the elbow. Desault used often to speak of a nun of Salpetriere, whose arm was broken, as a person wa$ handing her out of a carriage. Louis, who was vexed, that no union took place, was not a little surprised to find her thigh bone experience the same fate, one day as she was changing her posture in bed. It was then that Louis learned, that this lady had a cancer in her right breast. Leveille as- sures us, that he has observed similar cases in the Hotel Dieu. ■ According to this last writer, the history of two girls is related by Buchner, one of whom died rieketty at the age of sixteen, having broken the femur a short time before her death ; and the other, after taking the breast very well for two years, and thriving for a time, became affected with rachitis, and met with the same accident as she was merely running along the street. (Nou- velle Doctrine Chir. Tam. 2,p 163.) Many extraordinary instances of fractures from the morbid softness and fragility of the bones are upon record. Suffice it Here, to refer to the Philosophical Transactions; Mem. de l’Acad. Royale des Sciences; Act. Hafniens.; Ephem. Nat. Cur. Dec. 1, Ann. 3, Obs. 112; Gooch’s Chirurgical Works, Vol. 2; Saviard s Observations Chirurgicales, p. 274, &c. (See also Fragi litas and Mot lilies Ossium.) On the subject of fractures, produced by the scurvy, Leveille recommends us to peruse Mar- cellus Donatus; Saviarti’s Observations ; Hevne de Morbis Ossium; Poupart’s Works inserted in the Mem. de l’Acad. de Sciences, 1699; and the Treatise published at Verona, in 1761, by Jean de Bona. Pare, Platner, Callisen, and several other wri- ters, set down cold, as a predisposing cause ot fractures. This doctrine has originated from these injuries being more frequent in the winter time, and is quite erroneous, since, in cold coun- tries, the greater number of falls, which happen in winter, is a circumstance, that fully explains why fractures are then more common, than in summer. The remote cause of fractures is external force, variously applied, in falls, blows, See. In par- ticular instances, the bones are broken by the violent action of the muscles attached to them;