MORTIFICATION. 813 ti which the putrefaction occurs. The Francc_ by the name of the'Ergot, or cockspur term”'sphacelus, has. t know been employed'to exnres° that a part is not only completely dead, or mortified, but, also, that that part has become putrid, and is in a state of separation from the surrounding and living parts. But. as putre- faction is not a necessary, or immediate, conse- quence of mortification. or partial death in animal bodies, this use of the term sphacelus is obviosuly improper.” (See Thomsons Lectures on In- flammation, p- 50-1.) . The causes of mortification are either internal, or external. It is commonly taught in the me- dical schools on the continent, that the internal causes probably operate after the* manner oi a deleterious substance, which being introduced into the circulation, occasions a putrefaction of the fluids. (Lassus, op. ct loc. cit.)—Boyer also professes a similar notion, (See Traits dcs Maladies Chir. T. 1, p- 140.) as well as Larrey in his account of traumatic gangrene; a state- ment, which has drawn forth the criticisms of Mr. Guthrie. The doctrine is supported by no sort of proof, and may be considered as entirely hypothetical, if not decidedly erroneous. There are, indeed, as Boyer has noticed, some spon- taneous mortifications, the primitive cause of which is not always well understood: an in- flammation, apparently slight, may become gan- grenous immediately it lias made its appearance. In scorbutic, venereal, and small-pox cases, we have daily instances of this fact. Other internal causes, without any very evident pre-existing disease, sometimes destroy persons, by gan- grenous mischief, who are but little advanced in years. (Saviurd, Ohs. 1(5. Haller, Disput. Chir. T. 4, p. 551.) Certain poisonous, acrid, caustic substances taken inwardly, or introduced under the skin, may have the same effect, by annihilating the vital action, or destroying the texture of the parts. (Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. 1, p. SI.) But, though these observations rnay all be entirely correct, they by no means justify the conclusion, that the internal causes of mortification ever act like a deleterious matter producing a putrefaction of the fluids. The mortification of the toes and feet so well de- scribed by' Mr. Pott, is supposed to proceed chiefly from unknown internal causes, though sometimes attended with an ossified state of the arteries. Another remarkable specimen of mortification from an internal cause, is that originating from eating bread made of bad black wheat, or rye. Besides occurring as an original idiopathic dis- ease, and from obstruction of arteries, chronic, or dry gangrene (observes Dr. Thomson) may be induced by the action of substances taken into the stomach, which seem to produce it as a specific effect in parts remote from the source of the cir- culation. The most singular example, which we have of this, is in the gangrene produced by the eating of a particular kind of unsound or diseased rye. This species of mortification has been rarely olrserved in England; but it has been frequently seen on the continent, where it has been repeatedly known to prevail in some districts, where rye forms a principal article of food, as an endemial disease. It occurs, however, in such districts only after wet seasons, in which that grain is af- fected with a particular disease, well known in rye. In this disease, the grains of rye grow to a large size, acquire a black colour, and have a compact horny' consistence. The species of mor- tification, produced by' eating this substance, was first particularly described by' Dodard. (See Join ii. dcs Savans, an 1(57(5.) The part affected became at first insensible and cold, and, in the progress of the disorder, dry, hard, and withered, in very malignant cases, there was delirium. Dodard’s description of the complaint was very imperfect; but he has mentioned a circumstance, tending strongly' to prove, that the disease actually arose from the alleged cause ; viz. that fowls, fed with cockspur rye, are killed by it. Saviard in- forms us, that he saw this disease in the year 1 b\f)4, at the Hdtel-Dieu of Orleans. It at- tacked the upper and lower extremities, which were rendered, in the course of the disorder, as dry as touch-wood, and as emaciated as Egyptian mummies. In 1710, Noel, surgeon to the Hdtel- Dieu at Orleans, transmitted to the Roy'al Aca- demy of Sciences at Paris an account of this pe- culiar mortification. About fifty people, men and children, had come that season into his hos- pital, with the affliction. According to Noel, the disorder alwavs began in the toes, and ex- tended itself gradually along the foot and leg, till it sometimes rose to the upper part of the thigh, lie had never seen any of the female sex affected with it, and had observed only one instance of it in the upper extremities. The Academy received the history of one case, in which the lower extremities were separated from the body in the articulations of the thigh-bones with the acetabula; the first example, (Dr. Thomson be- lieves) of this separation upon record ; and it was the occurrence of this, and of similar eases, that probably first suggested the operation of am- putation at the hip-joint. (See Thomson's Lec- tures on Inflammation, p. 541.) As Noel’s patients did not come under his care, till after the disease had existed some ti'me, he could not describe from his own observation the early' sym- ptoms ; but the patients had often told him, that the disease generally began in one, or both feet, with pain, redness, and a sensation of heat, as burning as the fire; and that, at the end of some days, these symptoms ceased, as quickly' as they had come on, when the extreme sensation of heat, which they had formerly felt, was changed into cold. The part affected (adds Noel) was black, like a piece of charcoal, and ns dry rs if it had passed through the fire. After some time, a line of separation was formed between the dead and living parts, like that which appears in the separation of a slough produced by the cautery; and the complete separation of the limb was, in many cases, affected by nature alone. In others, Noel was obliged to have recourse to amputation. This disease appeared in Switzerland in 1700 and 171(5, and its symptoms and progress in that country' have been accurately described by Lan- gius in a dissertation, entitled, “ Dcscriptio Morbonnn cx esn Clavoriim Sccalii%ontm. Gassaud, physician in Dauphiny, where this disease appeared also in 170!), states, that many of the patients were affected with swellings ol the feet and legs, and of the hands and arms, which de- generated into a gangrene, that penetrated to the