URINE, RETENTION OF. of urine. (See J\fcd• Ohs, and Imp') As, in some of these cases, the blisters removed also a paralysis of the lower extremities, they might have furnished a hint to the practice of making -issues for the relief of the palsy of the legs, con- nected with diseased vertebrae. URINE, RETENTION OF. It is ob- served by the experienced Mr. Hey, that a re- tention of urine in the bladder, when the natural ^efforts are incapable of affording relief, is, in . male subjects, a disease of great urgency and danger. Persons advanced in years, are more subject to this complaint, than the young, or r middle-aged. It is often brought on by an in- cautious resistance to the calls of nature; and, if not speedily relieved, generally excites some .degree of fever. The distinction, says Mr. Hey, which has • sometimes been made, between a suppression and retention of urine, is practical and judicious. The former most properly points out a defect in the secretion of the kidneys; the latter, an inability of expelling the urine when secreted. The retention of urine is, an inability, whether total or partial, of expelling, by the natural efforts, the urine contained in the bladder. The characteristic symptom of this disease, previous to the introduction of the catheter, is a distention of the bladder (to be perceived by an examina- tion of the hvpogastrium), after the patient has cdischarged all the urine, which he is capable of texpelling. As this complaint may subsist, when the flow of urine from the bladder is by no means totally suppressed, great caution is required to avoid e mistakes. Violent efforts to make water are often excited it intervals, and, during these strainings, small ; quantities of urine are expelled. Such a case may be mistaken for strangury. At other times a morbid retention of urine sub- flsts, when the patient can make water with a stream, and discharge a quantity equal to that, .vhich is commonly discharged by a person in lealth. Under this circumstance, Mr. Hey has mown the pain in the hypogastrium, and disten- ion of the bladder, continue, till the patient was 'eiieved by the catheter. And lastly, it sometimes happens, that when :he bladder has suffered its utmost distention, the urine runs off by the urethra, as fast as it is nought into the bladder by the ureters. Mr. Hey has repeatedly known this circumstance ,’ause a serious misapprehension of the true na- me of the disease. In forming a correct judgement of ail these :ascs, it is very necessary to recollect the im- >ortant division of retentions of urine into the complete and incomplete forms; a distinction, •vhich will at once put the surgeon on his guard against a variety of errors. In every case of retention of urine, which the ate Mr. Hey attended, the disease could be as- certained by an examination of the hypogastrium, aken in connexion with the other symptoms. The distended bladder forms there a hard and circumscribed tumor, giving pain to the patient *hen pressed with the hand. Some obscurity nav arise upon the examination of a very cor- 11 ent person ; but, in all doubtful cases, the ca- neter should be introduced. Mr. Hey-has not adverted to tire swelling in the rectum, or vagina; nor to cases of contracted bladder, where, of course, the information, de- rived in ordinary instances from the tumor above the pubes, cannot be had; but, in other respects, his observations on the diagnosis are practical and correct. Mr. Hey had seen only a few cases of ischuria rcnalis, or complete suppression of the secretion of urine. The disease proved fatal in all his patients except one, in whom it was brought on by the effect of lead, taken into the body by working in a potter)'. It subsisted three days, during a violent attack of the colica pictonum, and was then removed, together with the origi- nal disease. Mr. Hey found no difficulty in distinguishing this disorder, in any of the cases, from the ischuria vesicalis, though, for the sa- tisfaction of some of his patients, he introduced the catheter. (Practical Ohs. in Surgery, p. 374, 4'C.) Retention of urine, may be the effect of a great many different causes; as paralysis of the bladder; inflammation of its neck; the presence of foreign bodies in it; pressure made on its cervix by the gravid uterus; enlargement of the prostate gland; strictures in the urethra ; &c. Every case of retention of urine demands prompt assistance, but where the disorder pre- sents itself in its complete form, the mischief of delay is of the most serious nature; for, if the bladder remain preternaturally distended, it not only loses its contractile power, but is quickly attacked with inflammation and sloughing. At length, some point of it bursts, and the urine is extravasated in the cellular membrane of the pelvis; spreading behind the peritoneum as far up as the loins, and, in other directions, into the perineum, scrotum, and the integuments of the penis, and upper part of the thighs. The common result then of the rupture of the bladder, and the effusion of its contents, is the speedy death of the patient, from the effects of this irritating fluid upon all the parts with which it comes in contact, amongst which effects is in- flammation of the peritoneum and bowels. It appears also from the observations, both of De- sault and Sir Everard Home, that a complete retention of urine after a time has the effect of putting a mechanical stoppage to the further secretion of this fluid in the kidneys; a circum- stance, which sometimes has a principal share in producing death, particularly where this event happens, before the urine becomes extravasated. In all cases of retention of urine, the indica- tions are sufficiently manifest; viz. 1st. to adopt such treatment as seems best calculated to pro- cure a discharge of the urine through the natural passage, which object is performed, sometimes by means of fomentations, the warm bath, bleed- ing, opium, and other medicines ; sometimes by the removal of mechanical obstacles to the flow of of the urine; but more frequently by the use of the catheter, than any other means. When all these plans fail, it then becomes necessary to puncture the bladder. 2dlv. The second indication, or that which presents itself, after the immediate dangers of the distention of the bladder, are thus guarded against, is to remove whatever disease, or other circumstance, constitutes the still existing im- pediment to the natural expulsion of the urine.