580 HEMERALOPIA. cap. G), and it may lie observed, that the inha- bitants of cold latitudes are less subject to heme- ralopia in their own climate, than the natives of tropical countries are intheir’s; but, more so, when they visit the tropics. (Med. C/dr. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 38.) Hemeralopia, or nocturnal blindness, (says Scarpa\ is properly nothing but a kind of imper- fect periodical amaurosis, most commonly sym- pathetic with the stomach. Its paroxysms come on towards the evening, and disappear in thes morning. The disease is endemic in some coun- tries, and epidemic, at certain seasons of the year, in others. “ At sunset, objects appear to persons affected with the complaint, as if covered with an ash- coloured veil, which gradually changes into a dense cloud, which intervenes between the eyes, and surrounding objects. Patients with heme- ralopia have the pupil, both in the day and night- time, more dilated, and less moveable, than it usually is in healthy eyes. The majority of them, however, have the pupil more or less moveable in the day-time, and always expanded and motionless at night. When brought into a room faintly lighted by a candle, where all the by-standers can see tolerably well, they cannot discern at all, or in a very feeble manner, scarcely any one object; or they only find them- selves able to distinguish light from darkness; and at monn-light their sight is still worse. At day-break they recover their sight, which conti- nues perfect all the rest of the day, till sunset.” [Cap. 19, p. 322, Edit. 8vo.) According to Mr. Bampfield, the disease al- ways affects both eyes at the same time. “ In general, (says this gentleman) the nocturnal blindness is at first partial, the patient is enabled to see objects a short time after sunset, and perhaps will be able to see a little by clear moon- light. At this period of the complaint, he is capable of seeing distinctly by bright candle- light. The nocturnal sight, however, becomes daily more impaired and imperfect, and, after a few days, the patient is unable to discriminate the largest objects after sunset, or by moon- light, &c. and, finally, after a longer lapse of time, he cannot perceive any object distinctly by the brightest candle light. If the patient is per- mitted to remain in this state of disease, the sight will become weak by day-light, the rays of the sun will be too powerful to be endured, whe- ther they are direct, or reflected; lippitude is sometimes induced; myopism, or shortness of sight, succeeds ; and, in progress of time, vision becomes so impaired and imperfect, that appre- hensions of a total loss of sight are entertained ; and this dreadful consequence has been known to ensue, where the complaint has been totally neg- lected, or left to nature, or where ineffectual remedies have been employed. (Bontius, p. 73.) « Jt has been remarked by some, that the patients are capable of seeing distinctly, at all periods of the complaint, with the aid of a strong artificial light; but, in bad cases of he- meralopia, in my practice, the patients positively denied the existence of the sense of distinct sight by very clear candle-light. (Bampfield in Medieo-Chir. Tram. Vol. 5, p. 39, 40.) The duration of the disease, when left to itself, is generally from two weeks to three, or six, months. Experience has not proved, that the disposition to the complaint depends upon any particular colour of the iris, as several writers have conjectured; nor upon the largeness of j the eyes, as alleged by Hippocrates. [Lib. (j. r sec. 7.) In idiopathic cases, the health does not in ; general suffer, and, except in the worst stage, 1 the eye is not altered in appearance. But, in j cases of long duration, the pupil, according to i Mr Bampfield, “ is often contracted, and the j eyes and actions of the patient evince marks of ( painful irritation, if the eyes are exposed to a j vivid light; or if he looks upward. But, if they : j meet the direct rays of the sun, which in the ji tropics are always powerful, or a strong glaring j reflection of them, pain and temporary blindne: s i i are induced, from which the patient recovers, by ; closing his eyelids for a time to exclude the rays t of light, and retiring to the shade. The pupil of ! the eye is considerably dilated, both bv day and j j night, in the proportion of about one case in j twelve, and at night the pupil is often dilated, ■ and does not perform its expansions and con- tractions, when exposed to the moon, or arti- t j ficial light. The cases, attended with dilated | J pupil, were generally those of long duration, &c. : “ Europeans, who have been once affected - with hemeralopia, in tropical climates, are parti- cularly liable to a recurrence of this disease, as | ( long as they remain in them.” [Bampfield, op. cit. p. 42, 43.) The remote causes of idiopathic hemeralopia i . are not well ascertained. Bontius imputes the . complaint to eating hot rice. [P.7‘2, 73.) Sleeping with the face exposed to the brilliancy of day-light, the vivid reflection of the sun’s rays from the sandy shores of hot countries, and| bright moon-light, have been enumerated as O causes. Dr. IJye thinks the disorder-intermit- * , tent. (Med. Ohs. and Enquiries, Vol. \,art. IS.)I But, as Mr, Bampfield property observes, though j. the complaint is certainty periodical, there is f » nothing in its character tending to prove, that itf is influenced by the same causes as intermittent j fever. The latter gentleman conjectures, “ that| too much light suddenly transmitted to the re-i , yl, tina, or for a long period acting on it, ma; afterwards render it unsusceptible of being sti mulated to action, by the weaker, or smaller quan tides of light, transmitted to it by night.” [P. 44.) Amongst other objections to this ex planation, however, it might be remarked, that the patients do not always see, though the light be good; and Mr. Bampfield’s own “ patients positively denied the existence of distinct sight by very clear candle-light.” Besides, if the disease were entirety caused by the sudden, or long operation of vivid light, one would con- ! elude, that all persons subjected to that cause, ought to have the effect produced, which is far from being the case. When the tongue is white, and the patien has headaeh and bilious complaints, M. Las- sus thinks the cause of the disease is in the sto- mach and prim® vim. The same author like- wise states, that hemeralopia attacks debilitate* persons, subject to catarrhal affections, residing in damp situations, and living on indigestibh food. From the combination of such causes, (says he) the disorder was epidemic in the vi-