HERNIA. 621 depends, in all these eases, is the adhesion, which through the mortified part of the gut, in order the living portion of the bowel, adjoining the to procure that evacuation of the loaded canal, mortified part, contracts with the peritonaeum all which nature attempts by the process of gan- round. In this manner, the escape of the con- grene.” If the intestine has already given way, tents of the bowels into the cavity of the peri- a free division of the integuments and sac allows toiueum becomes in general completely pro- the exit of the accumulated matter; andtheopen- veuted. The two ends of the sound portion of ing in the gut may be enlarged, if necessary.— intestine, after the mortified part has separated, (Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 283.) open into a membranous cavity, which previously Elere the division of the stricture is unneccs- constituted a portion of tiie peritoneal sac, and sary, since all the mischief, which the bowel can now unites the extremities of the gut. The receive from it, is done. This subject is well gradual contraction of the wound closes the explained by Mr. Travers. (See Enq. into the membranous cavity externally, and thus the con- tinuity of the canal is restored. The two ends, however, are not joined so as to form a continued cylindrical tube, like that of the natural gut; but, they are united at an angle more, or less acute, and the matter, which goes from one to the other, describes a half circle in a newly formed membranous cavity that completes the canal; a subject which has been more fully explained in anotherpart of this work. (See Anus, Artificial.) It is an observation of Mr. A. Cooper’s, that the degree of danger, attending an artificial anus, depends on the vicinity of the sphacelated part of the intestinal canal to the stomach. Thus, if the opening be in the jejunum, there is such a small extent of surface for absorption, between it and the stomach, that the patient dies of inanition. Let us now suppose, that the mortified state of the intestine has only been discovered, after laying open the hernial sac in the operation. The mischief may only consist of one, or more spots; or of the whole diameter of the protruded bowel. In the first case, the proper practice is to divide the stricture, and return the intestine into the abdomen, with the mortified spots to- wards the wound. Mild purgatives and glysters are then to be exhibited. The most favourable mode, in which a case of this kind ends, is when the intestinal matter gradually resumes its na- tural course, after being either partly or entirely discharged from the wound. But, sometimes, the patient sinks under the disease, or an artificial anus continues for life. The repeated observations of modern sur- geons have now decided, that no ligature, passed through the mesentery, to keep the gangrenous part of the bowel near the wound, is at all neces- sary. The parts, in the neighbourhood of the ring, have all become adherent together, in con- sequence of inflammation, at the same time, that the parts in the hernial sac mortify; and. of course, the partially gangrenous bowel, when reduced, is mechanically hindered, by these ad- hesions, from slipping fur from the wound. De- sault and De la Faye, both confirm the fact, that the intestine never recedes far from the ring ; and, even were it to do so, the adhesions, which it soon contracts to the adjacent surfaces, would, as Petit has explained, completely cir- cumscribe any matter, which might be effused, and hinder it from being extensively extravasated among the convolutions of the viscera. (Mem. de l' Acad, de Chir. T. 1, 2.) Where the chief part, or the whole, of the diameter of the protruded bowel is mortified, the first and most urgent indication is to relieve the bad symptoms arising from the distention of the intestinal canal above the stricture. “Let a free incision (“ays Mr Lawrence) be made Process of Nature in Repairing Injuries of the Intestines, fir. p. .300, dye.) Mild purgatives and clysters will be proper to unload the bowels, and determine the course of the feces towards the anus. Should, however, the stricture appear after the mortification to impede the free escape of the intestinal contents, a moderate dilatation of it must undoubtedly be proper. Mr. Lawrence, in his valuable Treatise on Ruptures, has clearly exposed the impropriety of sewing the ends of the intestinal canal together, introducing one within the other, supported by a cylinder of isinglass, ike. put in their cavity, in those cases, in which the whole circle of the in- testine has mortified, and been cut away, as was advised by former writers. By drawing the intestine out of the cavity, in order to re- move the dead part, the adhesion behind the ring, on which the prospect of a cure chiefly depends, must be entirely destroyed ; and new irritation and inflammation must be unavoidably produced, by handling and sewing an inflamed part. (See Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 298, §('•) Instead of such practice, this gentleman judi- ciously recommends dilating the stricture, and leaving the subsequent progress of the cure en- tirely to nature. The sloughs will be cast ofl’, and the ends of the gut are retained by the ad- hesive process in a state of apposition to each other, the most favourable for their union. Thus, there is a chance of the continuity of the intes- tinal canal becoming established again. Whatever experiments it may be allowable to make in wounds with protrusion and division of the bowels, nothing, I think, is now more com- pletely established, than the absurdity and dan- ger of attempting to stitch the bowels in cases of hernia. Ol’E RATION FOll VERY LARGE INGUINAL HERNIiE. When the tumor is of long standing, exceed- ingly large, perhaps extending half way down to the knees, and its contents have never admitted of being completely reduced, the indication is to divide the stricture, provided a strangulation takes place; but, without laying open the hernial sac, or attempting to reduce the parts. The reasons, against the common plan of operating, under such circumstances, are, the difficulty of separating all the old adhesions; the hazardous inflammation, which would be ex- cited by laying open so vast a tumor, and the probability that parts, so long protruded, might even bring on serious complaints, if reduced. J. L. Petit, and afterwards Dr. Monro, advised the sac not to be opened. fSce Mai. Chir. T. 2, /;. 372. Description of/hir.sec Mucosa:, 1 788.)