1051 TRICHIASIS. ly grow from the edge of the perforation, ; seldom from tlie surface of the dura mater, e the cicatrix is soft, it should be protected external injury with a thin piece of horn, etal. Exfoliations from the margin of the ration sometimes retard tiie healing of the d; but, now that the practice of dressing drying spirituous applications has been ex- ■l/and the removal of any part of the scalp ,■ ndemned by all the best surgeons, these asaut consequences are rendered much less rent, than in former days, te reader may find an account of the opera- of trepanning, or trephining, in every sy- of surgery; but, he should particularly eon- he writings of Sharp, Le Dran, Dionis, andi, Pott, Sabatier, Schmucker, Aberne- Desault, Callisen, Rieherand, &c. Several of the Memoires de l’Acad. de Chirurgie iso highly deserving of perusal. IICHIASIS, (derived from S’j/f, the denotes a faulty inclination of the eyelashes ds against the globe of the eye. According . arpa, the disease presents itself under two c ct forms: the first is, where the cilia are d inwards, without the natural position and i I ion of the tarsus being at all changed; the d consists in a morbid inclination of the , inwards, (Entropium) and consequently eyelash towards the eyeball ( Trichiasis). ■ e first form of this disease is said both by . .j and Scarpa to be uncommon, nor has it under the observation of the latter writer fgtthan once, and, in this instance, only some ; hairs had changed their direction. On )oint, however, Mr. Travers is completely iance with the foregoing authors, as he de- s an inversion of the cilia as frequently ig independent of entropeon. (Synopsis, 2.) The second species, or form of tri- s, or that which consists in a folding inwards ; tarsus and cilia at the same time, is the ’hich is commonly met with in practice. It >e either complete, affecting the whole of rsus ; or incomplete, occupying only a cer- ortion of the edge of the eyelid, most fre- ly near the external angle of the eye. times, the disease is confined to one eyelid; er times, it affects both ; and occasionally tient is afflicted with it in both eyes, ne writers, amongst whom is Beer, (Lchre :n Augevkr. B. 2, p. 118,) admit a case, they call distichiasis, and which they sup- • o be produced by a double and unusual row : s. But, according to Scarpa, this third is only imaginary, and the reason of ubdivision seems to have arisen from not cting, what was long ago remarked by t>w and Albinus, that although the roots of a appear to be disposed in one line only, >rm two, three, and in the upper eyelid our rows of hairs, unequally situated, and vere confused. Whenever, therefore, in uence of disease, a certain number of hairs >arated from each other in a contrary di- and disorderly manner, the eyelash will to be composed of a new and unusual row n> while, in fact, there is no change, either ispect to their number, or natural implan- !i t ? c a s * J t t c 5 not an easy matter to determine pre- cisely, says Scarpa, what are the causes, which sometimes make a few of the hairs deviate from their natural direction, while the tarsus con- tinues in its right position. They arc com- monly referred to cicatrices in consequence of previous ulceration, whereby the cilia fall off, and those which are growing are hindered from taking their proper direction. There must, how- ever, be other causes sometimes concerned; for, in the case seen by Professor Scarpa, two or three hairs were turned inwards against the eye- ball, although there had been no preceding ulcera- tion, nor cicatrices, of any part of the tarsus. Indeed, Scarpa is inclined to believe, that the small ulcers and scars, which are sometimes formed upon the internal margin of the tarsus^ are more likely to cause the second form of the disease, or the inversion of the edge of the eyelid, and, consequently, of the cilia towards the globe of the eye. As these ulcers, when neglected, destroy the internal membrane of the eyelids near the tarsus, it necessarily follows, that, in proportion as they heal and diminish, they draw along with them and turn inwards the tarsus, and hairs inserted into it. And since they do not always occupy the whole extent of the in- ternal margin of the eyelid, but are sometimes confined to a few lines, in the middle, or ex- tremity, near the external angle of the eyelid, so after the cicatrices are formed, the whole of the hairs are not invariably turned inwards, but only a certain number of them, which correspond to the extent of the ulcers previously situated along the internal edge of the tarsus. Indeed, in every case of imperfect trichiasis from a cicatrix of the inner margin of the eyelid, the tarsus and cilia are every where in their natural situation, except opposite the part, where the ulcers formerly existed. Also, if the eyelid be everted, its internal membrane, near that part of the margin corresponding to the seat of the trichiasis, will be found pale, rigid and hardened, the inversion of the cartilaginous border and of the cilia being plainly the effect of the con- traction of the cicatrized point. Chronic ophthalmies of long continuance sometimes bring on the complaint, in conse- quence of the skin of the eyelids being kept for a long time in a state of distention and oedema, terminating in a considerable relaxation of it. And, according to Beer, the too long continued use of emollient poultices may have the same effect. (Lehrc, S[c. B. 2, p. 113.) The car- tilaginous margin of the eyelid then loses the proper support of the integuments, inclines to- wards the eyeball, and afterwards turns inwards, drawing the eyelashes along with it in the same improper direction. Long continued puriform discharges from the ciliary glands likewise spoil the shape and consistence of the cartilage of the eyelid, and therefore not unfrequently occasion trichiasis. Scarpa doubts, whether a spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle can ever be a cause of the disease. The annoyance, which must necessarily result from the hairs perpetually pressing upon the cornea and white of the eye, as Scarpa observes, may be easily imagined. The evil is rendered still greater by the hairs, which are turned inwards, becoming much longer and thicker, than those which retain their natural