WOUNDS to dispense with this practice. The dressings are to be retained with a roller ; but it is not to be tight, as pressure is more likely to do harm, than good. Thus the inflammation of the wound will be moderated; the extravasation of blood prevented; the chance of union by the first in- tention taken ; and all painful operations avoided. And, nothing is more certain, than the fact, that, if antiphlogistic means be strictly employed, many stabs heal without abscesses, or any very severe symptoms, when no hope could be enter- tained of their doing so, under other treatment. :But, if suppuration should happen, and a col- i lection of matter take place, would the patient ^suffer more, or be put into greater danger, by having a proper depending opening, of just suf- ficient size, now made into the abscess in an eli- gible place, than if lie had submitted to have the ; formidable operation of laying open the whole ■ extent of a stab, performed in the first instance ? lln short, will he suffer half so much, be half so !long in setting well, or have to encounter half the danger? With all this advantage, he will I have taken a certain chance, which attends all .these cases, of the wound becoming united by, .what is called, the first intention, that is to say, without any suppuration. I need not enlarge upon this subject, but refer the reader to what has been said in the preceding columns on the sub- ject of Punctured Wounds, and to the treat- ment of abscesses, in the article Suppuration. tGun-shot wounds, merely injuring the parietes rof the chest, are to be treated, according to .principles elsewhere explained. (See Gun-shot (Wounds.) Of Wounds penetrating the Cavity of the Thorax.—Penetrating wounds of the chest, are always dangerous, and claim the utmost atten- t tion of the practitioner. I shall first treat of ;such wounds as enter the cavity of the thorax, I but without injuring the viscera. In the healthy state, the lungs so completely fill the thorax, that, both in inspiration and ex- piration, they are always in close contact with •.the pleura; and, whenever air, blood, or any other matter, insinuates itself between the pleura ccostalis and pleura pulmonalis, more or less op- pression, and difficulty of breathing immediately take place. In all wounds, attended with a di- vision of the pleura costalis, and occurring in a s situation, where there happens to be no adhesion 'between this membrane and the lungs, some of the external air, or a small quantity of blood, or moth, can hardly fail to get into the cavity of the thorax. If one of the intercostal arteries be wounded, and the external orifice he very narrow, t she blood, furnished by this vessel, may pass into the chest, and immediately produce oppression loof the breathing, and other symptoms of press- j| ure on the lungs. Of what is to be done in this case, I shall presently speak. When a wound is known to have entered the pleura, and there is no symptom leading to a suspicion, that the lungs, or any large vessel, is wounded, the injury is to be dressed according to common principles, and the more superficially the better. Authors also usually direct us, just before we close the opening, to tell the patient to make a deep inspiration, for the purpose of ex- pelling as much of the air as possible, which may have passed into the cavity of the pleura. At the end of such inspiration, the edges of the wound in the skin are to be brought together, and kept so, with sticking plaster, compresses, and a roller. The other indications, are to pre- vent inflammation of the pleura and lungs, by rigorous antiphlogistic remedies, particularly bleeding, which should be copious, and repeated, as circumstances may require. Penetrating wounds of the chest may be com- plicated with some of the following circum- stances: 1. Foreign bodies. 2. Injury of one of the intercostal arteries. S. Protrusion of a portion of the lungs. 4. Emphysema. 6. Ex- travasation of blood in the thorax. 1. Almost all these wounds occasion pain and difficulty of breathing. Many of them are also followed by an emphysematous swelling around the wound ; the patient frequently coughs up blood; and, after having had, for some time, a small, contracted, irregular pulse, with a pallid countenance, and cold extremities, he is too often seized with severe febrile symptoms, the effect of inflammation of the lungs and parts within the chest. These symptoms should be counteracted by bleeding, a very low regimen, opening saline medicines, the use of leeches, or cupping, and the strict observance of quietude. If such indisposition should continue longer than a few days, without diminution, writers in- form us, that there is ground for suspecting, that they depend upon the presence of some foreign body. However, it may be doubted, whether Sabatier’s advice, immediately to make search after the extraneous substance, is proper, under these circumstances. For my own part, I can- not think the symptoms, above related, by any means unequivocal, and even were they so, the practice would still be questionable (See Me- decine Operatoire, Tom. 2, p. 244.) Sabatier has quoted the two following cases, for the purpose of shewing what may be attempt- ed in these cases.—“ A man, twenty-seven years of age, was struck very violently with a knife, on the outer part of the fourth true rib. Simple dressings were applied for the first few days; but, a considerable coughing, and spitting of blood ensuing, M. Gerard was consulted, who found, that the symptoms depended on the presence of a piece of the knife, which had pierced the’rib, and was projecting some way into the thorax. So little of the foreign body was on the outside of the rib, and it was so fixed in the bone, that it could neither be extracted with any kind of for- ceps, nor even moved in the least with a leaden: mallet, See. Although, the only expedient seemed now to be that of sawing, or cutting out the por- tion of the rib, Gerard conceived, that an attempt might first be made to extract the foreign body, by pushing it from within outward. For this purpose, having put a steel thimble on his index finger, he introduced it into the cavity of the thorax, and thus succeeded in pushing out the piece of the knife. A spicula of the bone was afterwards felt; but, it was too firmly connected with the rest of the rib to admit of being completely taken out. Gerard was absurd enough to surround the whole rih, at the splintered part, with a liga- ture. To these ingenious proceedings, as the