92S POLYPUS. However the forceps is not applicable to all cases. The anterior part of the polypus, lying in the nostril, distending, and totally obstructing it, is sometimes quite hard, and, when the for" ceps is introduced, it presses the blades inrsuch a manner, from each other, as it lies between them, that the instrument cannot be introduced sufficiently far, to take hold of the tumor at a proper depth. If introduced to a proper distance, it cannot be closed. In such a case, says Ilich- ter, one might, perhaps, advantageously make use of a pair of forceps, the pieces of which may be separately introduced, and then fastened together again at the joint, and the blades of which diverge from each other behind the joint, and touch again at their extremities. The anterior indurated portion of the polypus lies in the interspace, and does not prevent the closure of the instrument. It is generally deemed of importance to take hold of the polypus with the forceps close to its root; and, indeed, when this rule is observed, the whole of the polypus, together with its root, is commonly extracted, and there is less reason to apprehend hemorrhage, which is naturally more profuse when the polypus is broken at the thick, middle portion of its body. It is also a rule, frequently easy of observance, especially when the polypus is not too large. But, in many instances, the tumor is so large, and the nostril so completely occupied by it, that it is imprac- ticable to get hold of its root. In this circum- stance, it is often altogether impossible to dis- cover even where the root lies. Here we must be content to take hold of the polypus as high as possible. The consequences are of two kinds. The tumor sometimes gives way at its root, though it be only taken hold of at its anterior part; and, in other cases, breaks where it is grasped, a portion being left behind, and a pro- fuse hemorrhage ensuing. This is, however, void of danger, if the surgeon does not waste time in endeavouring to suppress the effusion of blood; but immediately introduces the forceps again, grasps the remnant piece, and extracts it. The most infallible method of diminishing the bleed- ing, is to extract what remains behind at its root. In this way, a large polypus is frequently extracted, piecemeal, without any particular loss of blood. After the polypus has been propelled as far forward, into the nostrils, as it can be by blow- ing strongly through the nose, its anterior part is to be taken hold of by a small pair of com- mon forceps, held in the lefL hand; and is to be drawn gradually and slowly out, to make room for the introduction of the polypus-forceps into the nostril. The more slowly we proceed in this manoeuvre, the more the polypus is elongated, the narrower it becomes, the greater is the space in the nostril for the introduction of the polypus forceps, and the higher can this instrument grasp the tumor. After it has taken hold of the poly- pus as high as possible, it is to be twisted slowly round, and, at the same time, pulled outward, till the tumor breaks. It is a very important maxim, rather to twist the instrument than to pull it, and thus, rather to writhe the polypus offi than to drag it out. The longer and more slowly the polypus-forceps is twisted, the more the part where the excrescence separates is bruised, the less is the danger of hemorrhage, and the more certainly does the tumor break at its thin- nest part, or root. When the extraction is done with violence, and celerity, only a piece is usually brought away, and we run hazard of occasioning a copious bleeding. As soon as the polypus has given way, the surgeon is to examine whether any part remains behind. When the polypus is very narrow at the place where it has been broken, and the patient can breathe through the nose freely, there is rea- son to presume, that the polypus has given way at its root, and that none continues behind. The finger, if it can be introduced, procures the mo.-a certain information; or the probe, when this, for want of room, cannot be employed. The ancients proposed several means for the extirpation of the remaining piece of polypus; but they are, for the most part, objectionable. It is best to in- troduce the forceps again, under the guidance of the finger, or probe, and tlius pinch, and twist off, the part continuing behind. Hemorrhage invariably succeeds the opera- tion ; and, by many writers, has been represented as exceedingly perilous and alarming. But. it is not constantly so, and, in some cases, is quite insignificant. Frequently, however, it is really serious ; and, as the surgeon can never know beforehand to what extent it will happen, he is always to furnish himself, before the operation, with the most effectual means for its suppressioi. The danger of hemorrhage may always be less- ened, as was before mentioned, by slowly twist- ing the polypus at its root, in preference to pulling it directly out. When only a portion of the tumor has been extracted, the surest mode of stopping the effusion of blood is to extract the remaining part without delay. When the polypus has given way at its root, if there should be profuse bleeding, we may first try ice-cold water, and strong brandy, which may either be sucked or injected into the nose. This single remedy proves effectual in numerous instances. If the hemorrhage should still prevail, it may always be checked with certainty, how copious soever it may be, in the following manner. Roll a considerable piece of lint, as fast as possible, round the extremity of a probe ; wet it com- pletely through, with a strong solution of the sulphate of zinc ; introduce it into the nostril, and press it as strongly as possible against the part whence the blood issues. When the nostril is very much dilated, the fingers may be used, for this purpose, with more advantage than the probe. The point from which the blood is effused, may easily be ascertained, by pressing the linger on various points. As soon as the blood ceases to How, we may conclude, that the finger is on the situation of the hemorthage. This method is so efficacious, that there is seldom occasion for any other. When the bleeding point lies deeply in the nostril, it might be difficult to reach it with the finger. At all events, we may then employ a plan, which has been strongly praised it) urgent cases. A piece of cat-gut may be introduced into the nostril, and, by means of a pair of forceps, be brought out of the mouth. A roll ol lint is