502 FRACTURES. radius; and the more effectually, as these two bones are connected with one another throughout their whole length. In general, when only the radius is fractured, no extension is requisite. During the treatment, the elbow is to be bent, and the hand put in the mid-state, between pronation and supination; that is to say, the palm of the hand is to face the patient’s breast. Having reduced the ends of the fracture, when they appear to be displaced, the soap plaster is to be applied, and over this a slack roller. This bandage is, indeed, of no utility; but, it makes the limb seem to the un- knowing by-standers more comfortable, than if it were omitted, and, as it does no harm, the sur- geon may honestly apply it. However, no one can doubt, that tight bandages may act very per- niciously, by pressing the radius and ulna to- gether, causing them to grow to each other, or, at all events, making the fracture unite in an un- even manner. Only two splints are necessary; one is to be placed along the inside, the other along the outside, of the fore-arm. Soft pads must always be placed between the skin and the splints, in order to obviate the pressure of the hard materials, of which the latter are formed. The inner splint should extend to about the last joint of the fingers; but, not completely to the end of the nails; for, many patients, after having had their fingers kept, for several weeks, in a state of perfect extension, have been a very long time in becoming able to bend them again. Sometimes, it may be proper to apply a com- press just under the ends of the fracture to pre- vent their being depressed towards the ulna too much, the consequence of which has occasionally been the loss of the prone and supine motions of the hand. In setting a fractured radius, the hand should be inclined to the ulnar side of the fore-arm. FRACTURES OF THE ULNA. Fractures of this bone are less frequent, than those of the radius, and take place generally at its lower extremity, which is most slender, and least covered. A fracture of this bone is almost always the result of a force acting immediately on the part fractured; as, for instance, when, in a fall, the internal side of the fore-arm strikes against a hard resisting body. On applying the hand judiciously to the inside of the lore-arm, this fracture is easily ascertained by the de- pression at that part, in consequence of the in- ferior portion being drawn toward the radius by the action of the pronator radii quadratus. This displacement, however, is less considerable than what takes place in fractures of the radius. The superior portion of the ulna remains unmoved. (J. L. Petit.) In this case, the assistant, who makes whatever little extension may be necessary, should incline the hand to the radial side of the fore-arm, while the surgeon pushes the flesh between the two bones, and applies the apparatus, as in the pre- ceding case. In all fractures of the bones of the fore-arm, and, particularly, in those which are near the head of the radius, a false anchylosis is to be apprehended, and should be guarded against by moving the elbow gently and frequently, when the consolidation is in a certain degree ad- vanced. Fractures of the fore-arm always require the part to be kept quietly in a sling. FRACTURES OF THE OLECRANON. The olecranon may be fractured cither at its base, or its extremity; but, the first occurrence is the most frequent. The division is almost always transverse, though occasionally oblique. The accident is very rarely produced by the action of the muscles, but almost always by ex- ternal violence, directly applied to the part in a blow, or fall upon the elbow. With regard to symptoms, the contraction of the triceps, being no longer resisted, by any connexion with the ulna, draws upward the short fragment, to which it adheres, so as to produce, between it and the lower one, a more, or less evident interspace. This interspace is situated at the back part of the joint, and may be in- creased or diminished at will, by augmenting the flexion of the fore-arm, and putting the triceps into action, or else extending the limb. Another symptom, is the impossibility of spontaneously extending the fore-arm, the necessary effect of the detachment of the triceps from the ulna. The fore-arm is constantly half-bent, the biceps, and brachialis having no antagonists. The olecranon is, more or less conspicuously, drawn up higher, than the condyles of the os brachii, which latter parts, on the contrary, are naturally situated higher, than the olecranon, when the fore-arm is half-bent. The upper piece of bone may be moved in every direction, without the ulna par- ticipating in the motion. Besides these sym- ptoms, we must take into the account, the con- siderable pain experienced, the crack sometimes distinctly heard by the patient, and the crepitus which is frequently perceptible. The indications are to push downward the re- tracted portion of the olecranon, and to keep it in this position, at the same time, that the ulna is made to meet it, as it were, by extending the fore-arm. According to Desault, however, the fore-arm should not be completely extended, as when the pieces of bone touch at their back part, they leave a vacancy in front, which is apt to be followed by an irregular callus, prejudicial to the free motion of the elbow. Hence, it was his practice to put the arm between the half-bent state and extension. This posture, however, would soon be changed, if permanent means were not taken to maintain it. Desault, with this view, applied a splint along the fore-part of the arm. But, as position evidently operates only on the lower part of the olecranon, the upper one re- quires to be brought near the former, and fixed there, which is, doubtless, the most difficult ob- ject to effect, because the triceps is continually resisting. Desault used to adopt the following method : the fore-arm being held in the above position, the surgeon is to begin applying a roller round the wrist, and to continue it as high as the elbow. The skin, covering this part, being wrinkled in consequence of the extension of the limb, might insinuate itself between the ends of the fracture, and consequently it must now be pulled upward by an assistant. The surgeon is then to push the I ) I ft !