f 898 OPHTHALMY. At length, the throbbing and tension are so agonizing, that the patient often expresses a wish to have the eyeball extirpated. If no effectual treatment be adopted, the eye now bursts, and a mixture of matter and blood, together with the scarcely perceptible remains of the lens and vi- treous humour, is discharged with considerable force to some distance in front of the patient; an occurrence, sometimes termed rhexis, or rhegma oculi. From this moment, the pain all at once subsides into a very moderate feel of burning in the eye; and suppuration goes on, until all the textures of the organ are annihilated, the orbit has an empty appearance, and the closed eyelids sink into a concavity. Thus ends, as .Beer observes, the second stage, after much tedious and general indisposition. But, he re- marks, that the course of the case is quite dif- ferent, when it has been wrongly treated in its first stage with stimulants, or exposed to the ill effects of tobacco smoke, the drinking of spirits, improper diet, immoderate exercise, &c.; for, under the operation of these unfavourable cir- cumstances, the second stage may commence with dreadful gangrenous mischief, every vestige of the organization of the eye disappearing, and the parts at length sphacelating, while large ab- scesses form around, and, unless efficient medi- cal aid be promptly given, the patient loses his life. With respect to the causes of such an attack of the whole eyeball at once by common inflam- mation in a healthy subject, they must be of an exceedingly violent description, such as injuries produced by gunpowder, burns, and lesions either of a mechanical kind, or acting both chemically and mechanically together; a subject already fully treated of in the foregoing columns. The following are the observations, which Beer delivers on the prognosis: While, in the first stage of this dangerous form of ophthalmy, the eyesight yet remains, and the eyeball itself is not enlarged, if the patient can be properly taken care of, some hope may be entertained of dispersing the inflammation so favourably, that, with the exception of a weakness of sight, of longer or shorter continuance, no ill effects will be left. It is manifest, however, that under these circumstances, the surgeon should not be too bold in promising a perfect cure; for, the very commencement of such/an inflammation of the whole eyeball, even when the disorder is purely idiopathic, is unavoidably attended with some risk, not only of permanent blindness, but of the eye itself being destroyed in the most painful manner ; and, when things turn out rather better, a tolerably favourable termination of the case is uncommon. But, as soon as the power of seeing is quite lost, the pupil nearly closed, and the eyeball prodigiously swelled, it will be fortunate, if the inflammation can be resolved, so as to preserve the shape of the organ ; for, the restora- tion of the eyesight is entirely out of the ques- tion. But, besides the irremediable loss of vision, the disorder under these circumstances always produces a greater or lesser closure of the pupil, which however, has no share in causing the blind- ness. t < been considerably swelled in the first stage of the | case, the chance of preserving the natural shape | of the organ extremely unpromising. But, when j' the eye bursts, the latter desideratum is impossi-! ble. If the first stage should have been so vio- I lent as to have induced gangrene, the practitioner | will have enough to do in preventing sphacelus, 1 and death, the danger of which is considerable, [ on account of the intimate connexion between I the eye and parts in the orbit, and the brain andf y its membranes. In the first stage, antiphlogistic treatment, in t the general sense of the expression, is indicated, I and the case is not to be regarded merely as a f local disorder. However, with respect to topi-j cal bleedings, the surgeon, says Beer, should be [ more active, than in other examples of ophthal-1 my, and, after copious venesection and the use oft y leeches have produced some relief, the protu- [ berant conjunctiva, round the cornea, should be deeply scarified with a lancet. If, in the first i stage, delirium come on, as it sometimes doe* | during the violence of the inflammatory fever, Beer directs one of the external jugular veins to [ be opened: or blood might be taken from the temporal artery. In the second stage of the case, when the re- establishment of vision is quite impossible, and 1 the objects are to endeavour to keep the eye of a , good shape, and quickly lessen the suppuration, warm emollient poultices, and particularly those j made of apples, are the applications, on which j Beer bestows his praises. This topical treatment ;■ is to be assisted with internal means, as explained in the preceding pages, because the disorder is attended with a general disturbance of the con- stitution. When matter is fully formed, and i:s fluctuation can be distinctly felt, Beer approves of opening the abscess with a lancet; for, it is only b}- this means, that the annihilation of the eyeball can be prevented. If the eye has already j |jj burst, the preservation of its form is no longer j possible, and, according to Beer, both the topical and general treatment should be partly of a tonic j description. When gangrenous mischief has j occurred, the practice ought to conform to the ! principles explained in the article, Mortifica- tion. External Ophthalmy. Inflammation of the Outer Coats of the Eye. Ophthalmitis Externa Idiopathica, of Beer. The modifications of this common species of ophthalmy, as the latter author observes, have a variety of names applied to them, as ophthalmia levis, ophthalmia <nig::hit is. taraxis, and sometimes chcmosis, and ophthal- mia sicca. Together with a preternatural dry- ness of the eye, and a sensation, as if the eyeball were compressed on every side, the white of the eye becomes covered with a general redness, which, though it affect both the sclerotica and * the conjunctiva, will be found on attentive ex- in the second stage of the case, of course, the hope of restoring vision is quite past, and if the pveball itself, and not merely the conjuncti\a, has animation to be much more considerable in the former, than the latter membrane, in which only a delicate plexus of blood vessels is at first per- ceptible. The motions of the eye and eyelids are not absolutely prevented; yet, the patient never moves these parts, except when he is actually obliged to do so, as every motion of them, if not actually painful, occasions a good deal of annoy- ance. Though the cornea cannot be said to be- come opaque, its clearness is always much di-