PREFACE. vii to cut a fistula, unless the inner orifice can be found, is quite repugnant to the doctrines of Mr. Pott, with whom the author of this Dictionary is still disposed to concur. Axus Artificial.—Cured by Mr. G. F. Collier, on the Taliacotian prin- ciples. See Med. and Physical Journ.for June, 1820. In this case, the feces used to escape chiefly when the patient was costive. Bronchocele.—The Memoirs of Dr. Coindet on iodine, should have been mentioned in the references. The earliest of these interesting papers was read to the Helvetian Physical Society, July 25, 1820. Burs/e Mucosa.—Some interesting pathological and practical remark on inflammation of bursae mucosae are contained in Brodie's Ohs. on Dis- eases of the Joints, p. 305, &\C. 8vo. Loud. lo!8. Granulations.—Sir Everard Home in Philosophical Trans.for 1 Si9- The discovery, here alluded to, is briefly noticed in the account of the pro- perties and uses of pus, in the article Suppuration. Fractures.—A new method of treating old fractures, which have lost all tendency to unite, was successfully tried by the late Mr. Henry Cline, and has been recently practised by Sir Astley Cooper. It consists in cutting down to the ends of the fracture, scraping them well with a scalpel, and then rubbing them with a piece of caustic potassa, so as to destroy the parts of the bone indisposed to union, and at the same time excite such changes in the adjacent portions of bone, as will lead to an at- tempt at. reparation, the formation of callus, and a reunion of the living bone after the detachment of the dead fragments. A few weeks ago, the^ author of this work was present at an operation of this kind, done by his friend Mr. Earle j but, as the case is now under treatment, and this gentleman wall probably soon favour the public with the particulars himself, it is judged unnecessary to offer here any premature observations on the merits of the practice, of which no just estimate can yet be formed, on account of the very small numbers of trials hitherto made of it. Like other methods, however, it appears not always to have succeeded j but, whether it w’ill do so more frequently, than the plans, for which it is substituted, and with less suffering, than the seton produces, time and experience must determine. Lithotomy through the Rectum.—It appears from a recent state- ment, that altogether 15 patients have been operated upon, in this way, and that only one case terminated fatally, ten being completely cured, and four quite well, with the exception of trivial urinary fistulac. See Journ. Complan. du Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 10, p. 1 80, 8uo. Paris, 1821. \ enereal Disease.—Recent investigations into this difficult subject tend to confirm an observation, made by Fallopius, Palmarius, and other writers of former times, that, when mercury is not administered, the bones are seldom affected with nodes, or caries. However, it is not to be sup- posed, that the non-mercurial treatment is never followed by swellings of