FRACTURES. 471 It, when the necessary time for the completion of the union has expired, the callus is not yet firm, we must examine; 1st, The relative posi- tion of the fragments, and the consistence of the callus. 2dlv, The causes, which may have re- tarded its consolidation. That the state of the constitution has consider- able influence over the process, by which broken bones are reunited, is unquestionable. Schmucker found the formation of callus, even in the most simple fractures, sometimes delayed eight months, and in one example more than a year; but, the patients were all of them unhealthy subjects. (Vtrmischle Chir. Sc hn I ten, 1 B. p. 26.) There are certain indescribable constitutions, in which bones, more particularly, however, the os brachii, will not unite again after being broken. These temperaments are also very various ; at least, I infer so from two subjects, to whom I paid particular attention. One was a strong, robust man, whose chief peculiarity seemed to be his indifference to pain : the ends of his broken humerus were cut down to, turned out, and sawn off bv Mr. Long, in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, and the limb was afterwards put in splints, and taken the greatest care of; but no union fol- lowed. The other case was a broken tibia and fibula, which remained disunited for about four months; but, afterwards, grew together. The latter subject was a complete instance of hypo- chondriasis. I have since seen a woman, under Sir James Earle, in the above hospital, whose os brachii did not unite in the least, though it had been broken several months. Every attempt to move the bone occasioned excruciating tor- ture. The woman died of some illness in the hospital, and, on dissecting the arm, the cause of the fracture not having united was found to arise from the upper, sharp, pointed extremity of the lower portion of the broken bone having been forcibly drawn up by the muscles, and penetrated the substance of the bieeps, in which it still re- mained. I am indebted to Mr. Henry Earle for the account of the appearance on dissection, and I do not know, that this kind of impedi- ment to the union of a fracture has been noticed by any earlier writer than Mr. Charles White, who appears to have conceived the possibility of the occurrence. (Cases in Surgery, p. 70, Edit. 1770.) The causes of fractures remaining disunited, will, according to Richerand, be found to de- pend, either upon the broken ends of the bone not being properly in contact; the limb having been moved too much ; the advanced age of the patient; or, upon a general inertia and languor of the constitution. (Nosoeruphie Chir. Turn. 3, p• 37, Edit. 2 ) It is observed by Larrey, that the gunshot wounds of the extremities, complicated with racture, especially with that of the humerus, re- ceived by the soldiers of the French army in Syria, were almost all followed by the forma- tion of accidental joints. The two fragments of the broken bone continued moveable, their as- perities and projecting angles having been de- stroyed by friction, and their ends being rounded fn fC0Yered wl*b a cartilaginous substance, so ns "•J'Btate the motions, which the patients cxe- cu c in various directions, in an imperfect man- ner, a,u' without pain, Larrey acquaints us, that many invalids were sent back to France with such infirmity. “ I ascribe,” he says, “ the causes of these accidental articulations: “ 1. To the continual motion, to which the wounded soldiers were exposed, after their de- parture from Syria, till their arrival in Egypt, in consequence of their having been obliged either to walk this journey on foot, or to be carried it on beasts. 2. To the bad quality of the food, and the brackish water, which the men were under the necessity of drinking in this painful journey. “ 3. To the state of the atmosphere of Syria, almost entirely destitute of vital air, and im- pregnated with pernicious gases, issuing from the numerous marshes, near which we were a long while stationed. “ All these causes may have prevented the formation of callus, either by diminishing the quantity of the phosphate of lime, or moving the bones out of that state of coaptation, in which they should constantly lie, in order to unite. “ Bandages, embrocations, rest, and regimen, proved quite ineffectual.”—(Lar/ey Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 2, p .131, 132. Langtnbec/c. N. Bibl. B. 1, p. 81.) The presence of an ulcer, a sinus, loose splinters of bone, a necrosis, or other suppurating disease, near a fracture, is a circumstance, that often ap- pears seriously to retard, or completely to pre- vent the formation of callus. How frequently have I noticed, in cases of compound fracture, that, while the wound suppurates largely, and while there are spiculae and dead portions of bone unextracted, no solid union takes place; but, that as soon as the wound, ulcer, or sinus admits of being healed, and the suppuration ceases, the callus begins to form in the most favourable manner. Schmucker relates a case, illustrating the truth of these observations, where the tibia and fibula were broken so obliquely, that the ends of the fracture could not be made to lie well, a necrosis of a portion of the tibia followed, and no callus was formed at the end of eight months, when a sinus on each side of the leg still continued. This eminent surgeon now laid the sinuses open, and extracted the dead pieces of bone, by which means, the impediment to the formation of callus was removed, and the fracture, which had till then remained loose and moveable, became firmly united in two months. ( Vermisc/Ue, Chir. SchriJ't. 1 B. p. 25—26.) False or preternatural articulations, which occur in cases of fracture without union, have been generally supposed to resemble common joints. According to Boyer, this opinion is in- correct. The ends of the fracture, which are sometimes rounded, and sometimes pointed, are connected together by a cellular and ligamentous substance. But, their surfaces are not covered by a smooth cartilaginous matter, nor is there constantly a capsular ligament. “ I am con- vinced of this fact, by the dissection of several ununited fractures, the fragments oi which are preserved in my museum.” (Boipr, 1.3, p 94.) And, in another place, the same Professor, speak- ing of these false joints, remarks: “ I repeat that I have never found, in their structure, any tiling, which could be compared with an articulation;