3SG DISLOCATION. extended ; and, in addition to all this injury, Boyer calculates, that the heads of the gastro- cnemius, the popliteus, and the extensor tendons ot the leg, would be immoderately stretched, and even torn. An example of this luxation was seen in Guy’s hospital in 1802. According to Mr. A. Cooper, while the tibia projects forward the thigh-bone is depressed, and thrown some- what laterally, as well as backwards. The os femoris makes such pressure on the popliteal ar- tery, as to prevent the pulsation of the anterior tibial artery on the instep; and the patella and tibia are drawn forwards by the rectus muscle. (Surgical Essays, part 2, p. 73.) Dislocations inwards or outwards, though more frequent than the foregoing cases, are still to be considered as rare, and are always incom- plete. In the dislocation inwards, the condyle of the os femoris is thrown upon the external semilunar cartilage, and the tibia projects at the inner side of the joint, so as at once to disclose the nature of the accident; and a depression may be felt under the external condyle. In the luxation of the head of the tibia outwards, the condyle of the os femoris is thrown upon the inner semi- lunar cartilage, or, as Mr. A. Cooper says, ra- ther behind it. In both these cases, this gentle- man thinks, that the tibia is rather twisted upon the os femoris, so that the condyle of the latter bone is thrown somewhat backwards, as well as outwards, or inwards. I have stated, that lateral luxations of the tibia from the femur are almost always incomplete: but, the possibility of a complete dislocation in- wards seems to be established by the 402d Obs. of Lamotte. Whenever the tibia is dislocated from the femur, the accident has generally happened either while some force was operating upon that bone, at a period when the femur was fixed and im- moveable, or else while the thigh-bone was pro- pelled, or twisted with great violence, while the leg itself was firmly fixed. The bones of the leg are sometimes twisted outward, and the internal lateral ligament rup- tured ; but( this may happen without the crucial ligament being broken. On the other hand, when the bones of the leg are violently twisted inward, the crucial ligaments, and external lateral ligament, must inevitably be ruptured. These accidents are all most easily reduced, by making gentle extension, and pushing the head of the tibia in the proper direction. The grand object, after the reduction, is to avert in- flammation of the knee, and promote the union of the torn ligaments. The first demands the rigorous observance of the antiphlogistic plan— bleeding, leeches, low diet, opening medicines, and a cooling evaporating lotion; both require the limb to remain perfectly motionless. With re- spect to splints, I conceive, that their pressure would be objectionable. As soon as the liga- ments have grown together, and the danger of inflammation is over, which will be in about three weeks, the joint should be gently bent and ex- tended every day, in order to prevent stiffness. Liniments will now also be of service. In this section, we must notice the cases, which were first described by the late Mr. Hey, and are named by Mr. A. Cooper partial lux- ations of the thigh-bone from the semilunar car- tilages. Mr. Iley observes, that the disorder may happen either with, or without contusion. When no contusion has occurred, or the effects of it are removed, the joint, with respect to shape, appears uninjured. If there is any differ- ence from its usual appearance, it is that the ligament of the patella seems rather more re- laxed than that of the sound limb. The leg is readily bent, or extended by the hands of the surgeon, and without pain to the patient: at most, the degree of uneasiness, caused by this flexion and extension, is trifling. But, the pa. tient himself cannot freely bend, nor perfectly extend the limb in walking ; and he is compelled to walk with an invariable and small degree of flexion. Yet, though the leg is stiff in walking, it may be freely moved, while the patient is sit- ting down. Mr. Hey ascribed this complaint to any causes which had the effect of hindering the condyles of the os femoris from moving truly in the hollow formed by the semilunar cartilages, and arti- cular depressions of the tibia; an unequal tension of the lateral, or crucial ligaments; or some slight derangement of the semilunar cartilages. (Pract. Ohs. p. 333, ed. 2.) Mr. A. Cooper says, the most frequent cause of the accident is the point of the foot, while everted, striking against any projection, when pain is immediately felt in the knee, and the patient becomes inca- pable of perfectly extending the leg. He has also known the case produced by a person’s sud- denly turning in bed, and the clothes not suffer- ing the foot to turn as quickly as the rest of the body. A sudden twist of the knee inwards may also displace the semilunar cartilages. Mr. A. Cooper gives the following explanation of the case. The semilunar cartilages are united to the tibia by ligaments, which, when relaxed, allow the cartilages to be easily pushed from their natural situation by the condyles of the femur, which then come into contact with the head of the tibia; and now, upon an attempt being made to extend the leg, a complete movement of this kind is prevented by the edges of the semilunar cartilages. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 76.) In several examples recorded by Mr. Hey, a cure was effected by placing the patient upon an elevated seat, extending the joint, while one hand ■; was placed above the knee, and then suddenly i moving the leg backwards, so as to make as acute an angle with the thigh as possible. (Pract. Obs. p. 337, &c.) This manoeuvre seems to have the effect of restoring the semilunar car- 1 tilages to their natural position. Sometimes, ;» however, it will not answer; and, in one such . case, mentioned “by Mr. A. Cooper, the patient ie used to accomplish the reduction by sitting upon =k the ground, and then bending the thigh inwards I and pulling the foot outwards. A knee-cap R laced tightly, and furnished with a strong leather !■' strap just below the patella, was requisite in this instance for preventing a return of the displace- ment. In another case, subject to frequent re- lapses, these were at length hindered by a bandage : with four rollers attached to it, which were tightly ! applied above and below the patella. (A. Cooper, i Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 77.) Compound dislocations of the knee are generally deemed cases demanding amputation.