5l»2 HEAD. it as quickly, and as perfectly, as lie can, to its natural situation. Notwithstanding Mr. Pott assents to the em- ployment of sutures, lor uniting certain lacerated wounds ot the scalp, the best practitioners of the present day generally employ only sticking- plaster. Sometimes, the loosened scalp will unite with the parts, from which it is torn and separated, and there will be no other sore, than what arises from the impracticability of bringing the lips of the wound into smooth and immediate contact, the scar of which sore must be small in proportion. Sometimes such perfect re-union is not to be obtained; in which case, matter will be formed and collected in those places where the parts do not coalesce: but this does not necessarily make any difference, either in the general intention, or in the event; this mat- ter may easily be discharged, by one or two small openings made with a lancet; the head will still preserve its natural covering ; and the cure will be very little retarded by a few small ab- scesses. In some cases (as Pott proceeds to "describe), the whole separated piece will unite perfectly, and give little or no trouble, especially in young and healthy persons. In some, the union will take place in some parts and notin others; and, consequently, matter will be formed, and require to be discharged, perhaps at several different points; and, in some particular cases, circum- stances, and habits; there will be no union at all, the torn cellular membrane, or the naked apo- neurosis, will inflame, and become sloughy, a considerable quantity of matter will be collected, and, perhaps, the cranium will be denuded. But, even in this state of things, which does not very often happen, where care has been taken, and is almost the worst which can happen, in the case of mere simple laceration and detachment, if the surgeon will not be too soon, nor too much alarmed, nor in a hurry to cut, he will often find the cure much more feasible than he may at first imagine: let him take care to keep the in- flammation under by proper means, let him have patience till the matter is fairly and fully formed, and the sloughs perfectly separated; and when this is accomplished, let him make a proper num- ber of dependent openings- for the discharge of them, and let him by bandage, and other proper management, keep the parts in constant contact with each other, and he will often find, that al- though he was foiled in his first intention of pro- curing immediate union, yet he will frequently succeed in this his second ; he will still save the scalp, shorten the cure, and prevent the great de- formity arising, (particularly to women) not only from the scar, but from the total loss of hair. This union may often be procured, even though the cranium should have been perfectly denuded by the accident; and, it is true, not onlv though it should have been stripped of its pericranium at first, (See Abcrnethy on the Injuries of the Head, Case 6.) but even if that pericranium should have become sloughy and cast oflr, as Mr. Pott lias often seen. <i Exfoliation from a cranium laid bare by ex- ternal violence, and to which no other injury has been done, than merely stripping it of its cover- ing, is a circumstance (says Pott) which would not so often happen, if it was not taken for granted that it must be, and the bone treated i according to such expectation. The soft open f texture of the hones of children and young people, will frequently furnish an incarnation, which will cover their surface, and render exfo- j liation quite unnecessary; and even in those of mature age, and in whom the bones are still harder, exfoliation is full as often the effect of art I as the intention of nature, and produced by a I method of dressing, calculated to accomplish I such end, under asuppositiQn of its being neces- j. sary. Sometimes, indeed, it happens that a | small scale will necessarily separate, and the i I sore cannot be perfectly healed till such separa- I tion has been made; hut this kind of exfoliation I will be very small and thin, in proportion to that I produced by art, that is, that- produced by dress- I ing the surface of the hare bone with spirituous I tinctures, &c. “ Small wounds, that is, such as are made by I instruments, or bodies which pierce, or puncture, 1 rather than cut, are in general more apt to be- g come inflamed, and to give trouble, than those I which are larger, and in this part particularly,, I are sometimes attended with so high inflamraa- f tion, and with such symptoms as alarm both pa-* f tient and surgeon. “ If the ■wound affects the cellular membrane if only, and has not reached the aponeurosis or pe-*f ricranium, the inflammation and tumor affect theh- whole head and face, the skin of which wears ai * yellowish cast, and is sometimes thick set withW small blisters, containing the same coloured se-t| rum; it receives the impression of the fingers*! and becomes pale for a moment, but returns im4f mediately to its inflamed colour; it is not vernl painful to the touch, and the eye-lids and ears? are always comprehended in the tumefaction, theif former of which are sometimes so distended, ag” to be closed; a feverish heat and thirst generally} accompany' it; the patient is restless, has a quickl * pulse, and most commonly a nausea, and inclina-t tion to vomit. “ This accident generally happens to person*! of bilious habit, and is indeed an inflammatiorl of the erysipelatous kind; it is somewhat alarm-41 ing to look at, hut is not often attended witl danger. The wound does indeed neither looU ^ well, nor yield a kindly discharge, while the fe f ver continues, but still it has nothing threatening^ in its appearance, none of that look which be-} speaks internal mischief; the scalp continues tc| ? adhere firmly to the skull, and the patient doe* £ not complain of that tensive pain, nor is he aflf fiieted with that fatiguing restlessness, whidn- generally attends mischief underneath the cra< nium. “ Phlebotomy, lenient purges, and the use ojf the common febrifuge medicines, particularly^ those of the neutral kind, generally remove it irj' a short time. When the inflammation is gon* off, it leaves on the skin a yellowish tint, and fi dry scurf, which continue until perspiratioi| carries them away, and upon the disappearance ; of the disease, the wound immediately recover! a healthy aspect, and soon heals without any , tlier trouble. j. “ Wounds and contusions of the head, whirl affect the brain and its membranes, are also sub ject to an erysipelatous kind of swelling and 111 V