ANEURISM. 1 Gl under them, near the middle ot the incision, and should be detached, and drawn towards the shoul- der with a blunt hook. The cellular membrane, in the middle of the incision, is then to be cut, or separated with the linger, until the surgeon arrives at the acromial edge of the anterior sca- lenus. He passes his finger down the margin of this musele, until he reaches the part where it arises from the first rib, and in the angle, formed bv the origin of the muscle from the rib, he will feel the artery. The ligature is now to be con- veyed under the vessel with an aneurism-needle, or that recommended by Desault. (Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, cY-r. p. 376, Ac.) Breschet thinks, that the safest and easiest me- thod is that adopted, by Dupuvtren, as follows : an incision, three or four inches long, is to be made at the lower and outer part of the neck, and extended to the clavicle. This first incision, si- tuated behind the external edge of the sterno- raastoid muscle, should go through the skin, the cellular membrane, and platvsma myoides. Some venous branches, running into the jugulars, will then be met with, which should be surrounded by a double ligature, and divided in the interspace. A director is then to be introduced under the omohvoideus muscle in order to facilitate its di- vision, and the surgeon will at length reach the external edge of the anterior scalenus. A curved probe-pointed bistoury, is then to be gradually and cautiously passed behind that muscle, with the fiat surface of the blade against it, and deeply enough to divide the external third, or half of the fibres of the same muscle, or even all of them, if requisite. The insulated artery will then be felt at the bottom of the wound, situated in the area of a triangle, the upper side of which is formed by the brachial plexus, the lower by the subclavian vein, and the inner by the scalenus. A ligature is then conveyed under the artery by means of the needle invented by Deschamps. (See French Trnnsl. of Mr. Hodgson’s work, T. 2, p. 126.) "Whether cutting the anterior scalenus and omo- hvoideus will facilitate the operation is question- able; but the assertion, that these measures in- crease its safety, is what I cannot understand. With respect to the mode of tying the sub- clavian artery on the tracheal side of the scalenus, we have seen, that it was performed by Dr. Colles, and the event of the case was fatal. Descriptions of the operation may be found in Mr. Hodgson’s work, p. 382. When I consider the manner in which the subclavian artery, before it passes be- hind the anterior scalenus, is surrounded by parts of great importance, I can scarcely bring my mind to think, that the measures, requisite for taking up the vessel in this situation, will ever leave the patient much charice of recovery. “ Be- tween the aorta and scaleni muscles (says Mr. A. Burns) the subclavian arteries are connected with several important vessels and nerves. They are in the vicinity of the nervus vagus, of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, of the sympathetic nerve, of the rnrenic nerve, and the subclavian vein; and, on the left side, the subclavian artery is intimately con- with the termination of the thoracic duct. ese parts are all grouped together in a very nar- space, and the perplexity of their dissection diffUrther 'ncrcasei' by the interlacement of the ert>nt nerves with one another. The natural connexions of these parts arc best shewn by merely raising the sternal extremity of thestetno- mastoid muscle. If this be done, the nervus vagus will be brought into view, lying on the fore part of the subclavian artery, almost directly behind the sternal end of the clavicle; arid, ex- actly opposite to the nervus vagus, but behind the artery, the lower cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve will be brought into view. The recurrent nerve, on the right side, hooks round the subclavian artery, and, in its course towards the larynx, ascends along the tracheal side of the sympathetic nerve. On the left side, it twines round the arch of the aorta, and, in mounting upward, is interposed between the sub- clavian artery and oesophagus. The subclavian vein lies anterior to the artery, and, in the col- lapsed state, sinks nearer to the thorax;” but, when distended in the living body, it overlaps the artery. The thoracic duct enters the sub- clavian vein, about the eighth of an inch nearer to the acromion than the point, where the in- ternal jugular vein empties itself into the sub- clavian vein. The termination of the thoracic duct is situated between the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle. (A. Bums, on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 28.) It has been proposed to tie the arteria inno- minata in cases of aneurism of the subclavian artery. From a variety of facts, specified by a late interesting writer, it seems probable, that the brain and arm would receive an adequate supply of blood, although the arteria innominata were obliterated. On the whole, however, I fully coincide with Mr. Hodgson in condemning the proposal. The chief objections to it arise from the difficulty of the operation in the living sub- ject ; from the inflammation likely to be thereby excited amongst the important neighbouring parts; from the danger of hemorrhage, in con- sequence of the adhesion of the vessel being likely to be broken by the force of the circulation ; and, lastly, from the equal practicableness of tying the subclavian artery, in most cases, on the tracheal side of the scalenus. (See Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, p. 384.) A case, in which an axillary aneurism, un- attended with pulsation, was punctured, and the child bled to death, is noticed in a modern pe- riodical work. (See Med. Chir. Journ. rot. 4. 78.) For anatomical views of the parts concerned in the operation of taking up the subclavian artery, consult Rosr-vmuUcr’s Chir, Anat, Platt s, Part 2 Tain 8 and 9. Some valuable anatomical remarks, in relation to the operation, are given by Mr. A. Burns. (Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, />• 28, CAROTID ANEURISMS. There is no part of the body where the diag- nosis of aneurisms is more liable to mistake, than in the neck. Here the disease is particularly apt to be confounded with tumors of another nature. We have already cited, in this article, examples in which aneurisms of the arch of the aorta so resembled those of the carotid, as to have deceived M ,