f>JSO GUN Boucher, in opera cit. T. 6, p. 109, §c. Edit, in 12mu. Observations sur les Plates d'armes a feu; 1. Sur un coup de fusil, avee fracas des deux machoires ; par M. Cannae. 2. Sur uric Plate d arnic dfeu troversunt la Poitrinc d'un cold a Vautre; par M. Gerard. 3. Sur une 1 lute d arme a jeu, pendtrante depuis la partic a.itci ieurc clu pubis, jusqu' a l’os sacrum; par AndomlU. 4. Sur une Jambc ecrasec par un Obus, on petite bombe, par M. Cannae. 5. Sur nnc Plate a la partic wfericure ct interne dc la Jambc faite par un eclat de Grenade, sans fracas d’os; par M. Cannae. 6. Precis de plusicurs Observations sur les Plaies d'armes a feu cn differentes parties, par M. Bordmave. All these papers are inserted in Mdm. dc V Acad, de Chirurgic, T. 6, in 12mo., and in T. 11 of the same edition, arc inserted Memoire sur le U-aitement des plaies d'armes a feu, par M. dc la Martiniere, [Memoir cs sur quclques parti- cular ites concernant les Plaies faites par armes d feu, par M. Vaclter. M. Faure's memoirs relative to amputation in cases of gun-shot wounds may be seen in T. 8 of the Reeueil des Pieces qui out concouru pour le Prise de V Acad, dc Chirurgic, Edit, in Vlmo. John Hunters Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun- shot Wounds. Richter, Anfangsgrunde dev Wundarzneykunst, B. 1. Schmuckcr, Ver- mischte Chir. Schriften, 3 vols. 8vo. Berlin, 1776, 17S2. Chirurgische Wahrnchmungen, 2 vols. Berlin, 8vo. 1744, 89; works of high value. Discourses on the Nature and Cure of Wounds, by John Bell, p. 169, S[C. Edit. 3. Richer and, Nosographie Chir. T. 1, Edit, 4. Chevalier's Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds, Edit. 3. leveille's Nouvclle Doctrine Chi- rurgicalc, Tom. 1, Chap. 8, p. 430, Qc. En- cyclopedic Mcthodiqiic, Partic Chir. art. Plaies d'armes a feu. Larrey, Memoires de Chirur- gic Militaire, 4 Tom. 8uo. Paris, 1812, 1817; on the whole the most instructive book for army sfirgcons ever published. Memoire par M. Dc Conte, Prix de l'Acad. T. 8. Examen des plusieurs Parties de la Chirurgic, par M. Bagicu, d Paris, 1756. Bilgucr's Dissert, de Mcmbrorum Amputatione rarissime adminis- trandd, aut quasi abrogandd; Halce, 1761. This work is celebrated as having attracted most deservedly the just and severe criticisms of Pott, La Martiniere, Morand, <Spc. Morand's Opus- cules de Chirurgic, 1768. Van Gesschcr, Ab- handlung Von dev Nothwendigkeit der Ampu- tation ; Freyburgh, 1775. M. G. Daignan, Reflexions Importantcs sur le Service des IIos- pitaux Militaires, 8vo. Par. 1785. Mursinna, JVeue Mcdicinisch-Chirurgische Beobachtun- gen, Zweiter, Theil. S. 138. Berlin, 1796. Wedekind's Nachrichten uber das Fransischc, Kriegspitalwesen, Erster B. Leipsig, 1797. Baron Percy, Manuel du Chyrurgicn d'Armee, 8vo. Paris, 1792. Puroissc, Opuscules de Chir. 8vo. Paris, 1806. Gracfc, Nortnen fur die Ablusung Grosserer GUedmasscn, Mo. Berlin, 1812. Assaiini, Mauuule di Chirurgia, 8vo. Milano, 1812. Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds of the Extremities, London, 1815; or the ‘2d Eil. entitled a Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds, fyc.Bvp. London,! 820; a work detailing the practice of our military surgeons during the late war in Spain, and replete with valuable in- GUT formation. Thomson's Report Of Observations made in the military hospitals in Belgium, Edinburgh, 1816. A. C. Hu tehinson's Prac- tical Observations in Surgery, 1816 ; and Fur- ther Ohs. on the Period for amputating in Gun- shot Wounds, r6vo. Lond. 1817. Mitlingen's Manual, 8vo. Lond. 1819. J. Hennen's Principles of Military Surgery, 2d Ed. 8vo. Ediub. 1820; a publication which I cannot too strongly recommend, not only to army and navy surgeons, but to practitioners in general. James Mann, Medical Sketches of the. Cam- paigns of 1812, 13, 14 ; to which are. added. Surgical Cases, Obs. on Military Hospitals and Flying Hospitals attached to a moving Army, <fc. 8 vo. Dedham, 1816. GUTTA SERKNA. A term said to have been first applied by Actuarius to amaurosis, or the species ot blindness arising from a morbid state of the retina, or optic nerve. (See Amuu- rosis.') In the present place, I mean first briefly to advert to a case, which the late Mr. Ware has described as combined with a particular kind of ophthalmy, that occasions excruciating pain, and requires peculiar treatment. One example of this kind was greatly relieved by a puncture, made through the tunica sclerotica into the ball of the eye with a grooved needle, somewhat larger than a common sized couching needle, nearly in the part where this instrument is introduced in the operation of depressing the cataract. Through the groove of the instrument, a watery fluid im- mediately issued, which was not unlike that which Mr. Ware several times found, after death, effused between the choroid coat and retina, in cases of gutta serena. After the pain of the operation had ceased, the patient became quite easy, and the inflammation soon subsided. Mr. W'are afterwards performed a similar operation in a considerable number of resembling instances, and in several of them the proceeding was at- tended with almost immediate good effect. (See Ware on the operation of largely puncturing the capsule of the crystalline humour, <J-c. and on the Gutta Serena, accompanied with pain and inflam- mation, 1812.) Under the head of gutta serena, I promised to notice Beer’s opinions concerning amaurotic ’j remedies, which, whether employed upon rational or upon empirical principles, he divides into two classes, viz. general, or interval means; and local, or external. Sometimes only the first are requisite; more rarely only the second; but frequently both together. Amongst the internal remedies are emetics, which may be useful in two ways, either as real evacuants, or as nauseating means. It is the opinion of Professor Beer, that for the purpose of excit'ng actual vomiting, they should be ex- hibited only when the stomach is foul, and no considerable plethora exists; and he deems them improper whenever any great determination of blood to the head and eyes prevails, or any in- creased velocity of the circulation. Should the surgeon find it necessary to employ emetic medi- cines, simply as alteratives, he must consider well ■ whether the digestive organs will bear their great and long continued operation. (Lehc r<>H den Augmkr. B. 2, p. 463.) Notwith- standing the favourable accounts, given l»v