POLYPUS 92G blood; those which by adhesion occupy a very considerable space, and seem to consist of a thickening, or of an enlargement of all the mem- brane covering the septum narium ; those which sometimes shed an ichorous, offensive, disco- loured discharge; and those, round whose lower part, within the nose, a probe cannot easily and freely be passed, and that to some height, ought not to be attempted, at least by the forceps, nor indeed by any other means ; and this for reasons obviously deducible from the nature and circum- stances of the polypus. On the one hand, the very large extent and quantity of adhesion will render extirpation impracticable, even if the dis- ease could be comprehended within the forceps, which it very frequently cannot; and on the other, the malignant nature of the distemper may render all partial removal, all unsuccessful attacks on it, and indeed any degree of irritation, pro- ductive of the most disagreeable consequences. But, the polypi, which are of a palish or grey- ish light-brown colour, or look like a membrane just going to be sloughy ; which are seldom or never painful, nor become so upon being pressed; which have appeared to be at one time larger, at another less, as the air has happened to be moist or dry ; which ascend and descend freely by the action of respiration through the nose; which the patient can make to descend by stopping the nostril which is free, or even most free, and then driving the air through that which the polypus possesses; which when pressed give no pain, easily yield to such pressure, become flat there- by, and distil a clear lymph ; and round whose lower and visible part a probe can easily, and that to some height, be passed, are fair and fit for extraction; the polypus, in these circum- stances, frequently coming away entire; or, if it does not, yet it is removable without pain, hemorrhage, or hazard, of any kind ; the second of which circumstances Mr. Pott can with strict truth affirm, he never yet met with when the disease was at all fit for the operation. Of the benign kind of polypus, fit for extrac- tion, there are (says Mr. Pott) two sorts, whose principal difference from' each other consists in their different origin or attachment. That which is most freely moveable within the nos- tril, upon forcible respiration ; which has been found to be most liable to change of size, at dif- ferent times and seasons; which has increased the most in the same space of time; which seems most limpid, and most freely yields lymph upon pressure, has its origin most commonly by a stalk or kind of peduncle, which is very small, compared with the size of the polypus. The other which, although plainly moveable, is much less so than the onejust mentioned, which has been less liable to alteration from air and seasons; and which has been rather slow in arriving at a very troublesome size, is most frequently an elongation of the membrane covering one of the ossa spongiosa. These latter may be extracted with no kind of hazard, and with very little pain, and hemorrhage: but the former require the least force, and mostly come away entire ; while the others often break, come away piecemeal, and stand in need of the repeated use of the forceps. (Pott, on the PoI;/pus of the A osc.J Mr. John Bell criticizes the distinctions drawn V>v the nrcccdimr writer, and lie says, that a poly- pus is never mild, and never malignant; time, and the natural growth of the tumor, and the pressure it occasions within the soft and bony cells of the nostrils and jaws, must bring every polypus to one invariable form, in its last and fatal stage. Polypus, says Mr. John Bell, is indeed a dreadful disease ; but it becomes so by a slow progression, and advances by gradations easily characterized. Every polypus in its early stage is, according to this writer, a small move- able tumor, attended with a sneezing and water- ing of the eyes ; swelling in moist weather; de- scending with the breath; but easily repressed with the point of the finger. It is void of pain, and not at all alarming ; it may also be easily extracted, so as to clear for a time the passage for the breath. Yet this little tumor, simple as it may appear, is the germ of a very fatal and loathsome disease, and this easy extraction often the very cause of its appearing in its most malig- nant form. The more easily it is extracted, (say3 Mr. J. Bell) the more easily does it return; and whether carelessly extracted, or altogether neglected, it soon returns. But, when it does return, it has not really changed its nature; it has not ceased to be in itself mild, it is then to be feared, not from its malignity, but from its pressure, among the delicate cells and membranes of the nose. It soon fills the nostrils, obstructs the breathing, and causes indescribable anxieties. The tears are obstructed, and the eyes become watery from the pressure on the lachrymal sac ; the hearing is in like manner injured, by the pressure of the tumor, against the mouth of the eustachian tube; the voice is changed, and its resonance and tone entirely lost, by the sound no longer passing through the cells of the nose and face. The swallowing is in some degree affected by the soft palate being depressed by the tumor. The pains arising from such slow and irre- sistible pressure are unceasing. From the same pressure, the bones become carious, and the cells of the face and nose are destroyed by the slow growth of the swelling. It is not long before the tumor begins to project from the nostril in front, and over the arch of the palate behind. One nostril becomes widened and thickened; the nose is turned towards the opposite side of the face, and the whole countenance seems distorted. The root of the nose swells, and becomes puffy, the features tumid and flabby, the face yel- low, and the parts round the eye livid. The patient is affected with headaehs, which seem to rend the bones asunder, and with perpetual stu- por, and dozing. The bones are now absorbed, and the membranes ulcerate; a foul and fetid matter, blackened with blood, is discharged from the nostrils, and excoriates them. The blood- vessels next give way, and sudden impetuous hemorrhages weaken the patient; the teeth fall from the sockets, and, through the empty sockets, a foul and fetid matter issues from the antrum. Now the disease verges to its conclusion. The patient has terrible nights, and experiences a sense of suffocation. The repeated loss of blood renders him so weak, that he cannot quit his bed, for several days together; and when he does get up, he is (to use Mr. Bell’s words) pale as a spectre, his lips colourless, and his face like wax, yellow, and transparent. He now suffers in- tolerable pain, while his saliva is continually