72 4 JOINTS. He acknowledges, however, that these accidents do not always go on so well, and that the con- sequences are sometimes perilous. Simple incised wounds present only one indi- cation ; viz. that of healing the part by the first intention. At the moment of the accident, some ot the synovia is discharged, indicating that the capsular ligament is wounded. Should this cir- cumstance not have been noticed at first, the surgeon may see the synovia (low out again, if he move, or press upon the joint. But, in making this examination, the greatest gentleness should be used, lest the irritation of the capsular liga- ment be increased. When the wound is large, and there is no considerable thickness of soft parts, the articular surfaces are exposed to view. The prognosis of an incised wound of a joint is not generally unfavourable, when the edges have been immediately brought together, the cavity of the joint has not been long exposed, and blood is not extravasated in it. This last danger is also exaggerated, as will be noticed, in speaking of collections of blood in joints. With these exceptions, says Boyer, the wound may heal as readily, as if the joint were not opened, and he has cited several facts in proof of this statement. Its truth is also confirmed by the success which attends operations, practised for the purpose of extracting cartilaginous substances from the knee. Nay, very bad cases sometimes recover under judiciousmanagement, even though the joint be large, and abscesses follow. Tims I have seen in St. Bartholomew’s hospital, within the last year (1820) two examples of compound fractures of the patella, where the opening in the capsule was so large, that the finger could rea- dily be passed into the cavity of the joint, yet after large abscesses, a great deal of fever, and separation of bone, the patients recovered with stifFjoints. But, I would advise surgeons not to let any facts of this kind prejudice their judg- ment in the treatment of gun-shot wounds of the large joints, where, in the circumstances elsewhere explained (see Amputation and Gun- shot Wounds) amputation is the safest practice. In a sabre, or cut wound, the principal object is to heal the wound by the first intention. The rest of the treatment consists in using every pos- sible means for the prevention of inflammation, by perfect quietude of the part; the use of cold applications; &c. We repeat, however, that wounds of the joints do not always heal in the above favourable man- ner. Even amongst those cases, which appear the most slight and simple, there are but too many, which are followed by such aggravated symptoms, as either prove fatal, or occasion a necessity for amputation. And, in other in- stances of a less grievous description, when the patient is cured, the termination of danger is not without an anchylosis, by which the motion and functions of the joint are permanently destroyed. The experienced Mr. Hey has noticed wounds of the joints, and made some pertinent remarks on the subject. He states, that, in these cases, the utmost care should be taken to prevent in- flammation. “ Upon this circumstance chiefly depends a successful termination. I have seen (says he) many large wounds of the great joints healed without the supervention of any danger- ous symptoms, where due care has been taken to prevent inflammation; whilst injuries, appa- rently trifling, will often be followed by a train of distressing and dangerous consequences, where such care has been neglected. It is generally easier to prevent inflammation in the joints, after a wound, than to arrest its progress when once begun. I speak now of inflammation affecting the capsular ligament. A slight degree of redness and tenderness in the integuments only, is of little consequence; but, when the capsular ligament becomes inflamed, the formation of abscesses at- tended with a high degree of fever, and ultimately a stiffness of the joint, are the common conse- quences, if the life of the patient is preserved.” (See Hep's Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 35-4, Edit. 2.) For facts, in confirmation of the foregoing ac- count, I particularly refer the reader to several cases recorded in this last publication, p. 355, ct seq. and by Boyer. (Traitc dcs Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 426, ^fC.) When the large joints, particularly the knee, are wounded, the stomach is frequently very much af- fected. I remember being shewn by Mr. Best of Newbury, a man, who, in his occupation as a wheelwright, happened to give hirr^self a wound by which one side of the knee was laid open : a good deal ofinflammation and suppuration ensued; but, what particularly struck me, was the manner, in which the man complained of the affection of his stomach. In speaking of cartilaginous substances in the joints, I shall have occasion to advert again to the danger attendant on wounds of these parts; and the same fact is still further considered, in the articles Amputation, Dislocations, Frac- tures, and Gunshot Wounds, in which last part of the Dictionary, the sentiments of Baron Lar- rey, and other writers on military surgery, are laid before the reader. Inflammation of Joints, if we exclude from consideration specific cases, may be said usually to be the consequence of a contusion, sprain, wound, or some other kind of injury: but with respect to the inflammation of the synovial membrane, as described by Mr. Brodie, no cause is so frequent, as the application of cold, and hence he explains the frequency of this disease in the knee, and its rarity in the hip and shoulder, which are covered with a thick mass of flesh. As a late writer ob- serves, the inflammation, arising from a wound, is infinitely the most severe after it has once commenced. (James on Inflammation, p. 157.) The inflamed joint shews the common sym- ptoms of inflammation ; viz. preternatural red- ness, increased heat, throbbing, pain, and swell- ing, while the constitution is also disturbed by the common symptoms of inflammatory fever. It deserves notice, however, that, in these cases, the constitutional symptoms are often exceed- ingly severe, and the pulse is more frequent, and less full and strong, than when parts, more disposed to return to a state of health, are af- fected. The inflammation first attacks some part of the capsular ligament, and very quickly spreads over its whole extent, as usually happens in all inflammations of smooth serous membranes. The capsules of the joints are naturally not very sensible; but, like many other parts simi-