969 SCROPHULA. ■tern is predisposed to it, by inexplicable causes. That climate has great influence, cannot be doubted, when it is reflected, that the inhabitants of certain countries, in whicli the temperature is invariably warm, never sutler from scrophula. There can also be no doubt that, with age, the disposition to scrophula diminishes; for, child- ren, much afflicted while young, frequently get quite well when they approach the adult state ; and, if a person has remained perfectly free from any mark of a scrophulous constitution, till the age of twenty-five, he may be considered as nearly out of all danger of the disease. TREATMENT OF SCKOTHULA. “ For the cure of scrophula, (says the cele- brated Cullen,) we have not yet learned any practice that is certainly, or even generally suc- cessful. The remedy which seems to be the most < successful, and which our practitioners especially • trust to, or employ, is the use of mineral waters. But, (adds this eminent physician.) in very many instances of the use of these waters, I have not been well satisfied, that they had shortened the du- ration of the disease more than had often happened when no such remedy had been employed. With regard to the choice of the mineral waters most fit for the purpose, (says Cullen,) I cannot with any confidence, give an opinion. Almost all kinds of mineral waters, whether chalybeate, - sulphureous, or saline, have been employed for the cure of scrophula, and, seemingly, with equal success and reputation; a circumstance, which leads me to think, that, if they are ever success- ful, it is the elementary water that is the chief part of the remedy. Of late, sea-water has been especially recommended, and employed; but, after numerous trials, I cannot yet discover its superior efficacy.” (First Lines of Physic, Vol. -4.) On the subject of mineral waters, Dr. Thomson very properly remarks, that they are now usually employed as purgative and tonic remedies, and not as specifics. In employing them it is often difficult to distinguish between the effects, which they in reality produce, and those which are to be attributed to the slow ope- ration of time, the season of the year, change of situation, alteration in the mode of life, or ex- ercise in the open air. (Lectures on Inflamma- tion, $c. p. 193.) In scrophulous diseases, Dr. Fordyce had a high opinion of bark; and he endeavoured to prove, that, in cases of tumefied glands, attended with a feeble habit, and a weak circulation, it is a most efficacious medicine, and acts as a re- solvent and discutient. He also brings forward a case, in support of bark being a means of cure for the ophthalmia strumosa. (See Med. Ohs. and Inq. Vol. I, p. 184.) Dr. Fothergill, in the same work, p. 303, writes in favour of the good effects of bark in similar cases ; small doses of calomel being sometimes given with it. Dr. Cullen considered the efficacy of bark in scrophula very dubious and trivial. (First Lines, Sf c. Vol. 4.) According to Mr. Burns, bark has been fre- quently found useful in the cure of scrophulous inflammation, but more often of ulceration, than tumefaction of the glands. But, says he, it does not appear to possess, by any means, that cer- tain power of curing scrophulous affections, which is attributed to it by Dr. Fothergill and several other authors. He observes, that we are not to suppose it will infallibly cure scro- phulous inflammation, or ulceration of parts, which, even when affected with simple in- flammation, are very difficult of cure. If it be difficult to cure a simple inflammation, or ulcera- tion, of a tendon, cartilage, or bone, we must not be disappointed if even a specific remedy for scrophula (were such ever discovered) should prove ineffectual in procuring a speedy restora- tion to health. Mr. Burns contends, that baric is often ineffectual, because improperly ad- minstered. Given in small quantities, once or twice a day, it may prove a stomachic, and in- crease, like other tonic bitters, the power of the stomach, or the functions dependent on it; but, in order to obtain the benefits of the specific action of bark, he maintains, that it should be given in large quantities, for several weeks, with a good diet, air, and proper exercise.—{Dis- sertations on Inflammation, Vol. 2, p. 371.) Dr. Thomson does not believe, that bark, or iron, has any specific virtue in curing scrophula; but, he admits, that either of these medicines may sometimes prove useful in proving the tone of the digestive organs, when given after, or occasionally along with, a course of purgative mineral waters. {.Lectures, p. 197.) As far as I can judge, Mr. White has with much reason recommended paying attention to such circumstances as may have effect in pre- venting the disease, viz. air, cleanliness, ex- ercise, and diet. He mentions cold-bathing among the preventives of struma, and speaks of sea-bathing as being the best. He advises at- tention also to be paid to the manner of clothing children, keeping them more covered in winter, than summer. Mr. White thought, that allow- ing children to sleep a great deal was prejudicial; but, this seems to me only conjecture. In noticing the treatment of the disease, Mr. White states, that “ the general idea of the struma is, that it is a disease of debility; and therefore, the great object is, to invigorate the habit by every possible means; the chief of which are tonic medicines, and sea-bathing. Some are of opinion, that in the case of young patients, this should be continued, during the summer months, every year, to the age of fourteen or sixteen. Many recommend it, not only in the summer, but throughout the year; whilst others are for administering alteratives, principally the alkaline salts, with or without antimonials, and the different tonics, during the winter; and the sea-water, and sea-bathing, or cold-bathing, during the summer, for a continuance of two or three years from the commencement of the dis- ease ; with this general observation, that they will outgrow the complaint.” Mr. White adds, that the chief external means are fomentations of sea-water, and cataplasms, made with the same. With respect to regimen, some recommend a milk nnd vegetable diet; others animal lood and fermented liquors. Mr. White maintains, that the preceding plans of treatment are not, in general, efficacious, though, in some instances, they may prove use- ful. “ In early affections of the lymphatic glands, (says this gentleman,) and from the want of a pure air, and proper exercise, where children are