562 DISLOCATION. The luxation of a large joint, being conjoined with an external wound, leading into the capsu- lar ligament, is a circumstance, that has a par- ticular tendency to increase the danger of the accident. In many cases, we see injuries of this description followed by violent and extensive in- flammation, abscesses and mortification, fever, delirium, and death. When the patient is much advanced in years, is much debilitated, or of an unhealthy irritable constitution, compound luxa- tions, especially, if attended with much contusion and other injury of the soft parts, and wrongly treated, very often have a fatal termination. This, however, is not the general event of com- pound dislocations, and whatever may have hap- pened in former times, we now know, that, in the present improved state of surgery, these ac- cidents mostly admit of cure. This statement may be made, without any censure being cast upon every instance of amputation performed in such cases. I know, that this operation is some- times indispensable directly after the accident, and I am equally aware, that it may become neces- sary in a future stage, when extensive abscesses, or sloughing, joined with threatening constitu- tional symptoms, have taken place. My only design is to recommend the endeavour to cure the generality of compound luxations. But, if a case were to present itself, attended with serious contusion and laceration of the soft parts, I should be as earnest an advocate for amputation as anj' surgeon. Mr. Hammick, surgeon to the Royal Naval Hospital,Plymouth,in speaking of compounddis- locationsofthe ankle,advises amputation, “where the lower heads of the tibia and fibula are very much shattered; where, together with the com- pound dislocation of these bones, some of the tarsal bones are displaced and injured ; where any large vessels are divided, and cannot be secured with- out extensive enlargement of the wound, and dis- turbance of the soft parts; where the common in- teguments, with the neighbouring tendons and muscles are considerably torn; where the pro- truded tibia cannot by any means be reduced; and where the constitution is enfeebled at the time of the accident, and not likely to endure pain, discharge, and length of confinement.” (A. Cooper's Surg. Essays, Part 2, p. Id6.) Per- haps, as general remarks, these may not be in- accurate; but, there are exceptions to them. Thus, we find in Mr. A. Cooper's publication several cases, in which compound dislocations of the ankle terminated well, notwithstanding the displacement and removal of the astragalus, other instances of which kind of success are to be found in the records of surgery. (See Laumonier, in FourcroyfMed. eclairee; Percy,in Joum.de Med. continue Noi\ 1811, p. 18.) However, if the ends of the tibia and tarsal boHes, especially the astragalus and os calcis are broken, the operation of amputation is recommended on high authority. (A. Cooper’s Surg. Esums, Part 2, p. 1-1.) But, with regard to the division of large bldod-vesscls, Mr. A. Cooper states, that lie would not at once proceed to amputation on that account. “The case from Mr. Sandford of Worcester, sent me by Mr. Carden, clearly shews, that the division of the anterior tibial artery does not, if it be well secured, prevent the patient’s recovery. I also once saw a compound fracture, close to the ankle joint, accompanied by a division of that artery ; and, although the patient was in the hospital, and a brewer’s servant, who possessed the worst con- stitution to struggle against severe injuries, vet this man recovered without amputation.” Nor in Mr. A. Cooper’s opinion, would all hope be precluded, even if the posterior tibial artery were injured. (Voc.cU.p. 186.) For the method of securing these vessels, see Arteries. Ihe following are the circumstances, which Mr. A. Cooper has known give rise to the neces- sity for amputation in compound dislocations of the ankle. 1. The advanced age of the patient. 2. A very extensive lacerated wound. 3. Dif- ficulty of reducing the ends of the bones he con- siders rather as a reason for sawing them ofi, than for amputation. 4. The extremely shat- tered state of the bones. 5. Dislocations of the tibia outwards cause greater injury of the bones and soft parts, than those inwards, and morefre- quently require amputation. 0. Sometimes the bone cannot be kept reduced, owing to the tibia in the dislocation outwards being obliquely frac- tured. 7. Division of a large blood-vessel, at- tended with extensive wound of the soft parts. 8. Mortification. 9. Excessive contusion. 10. Extensive suppuration. 11. Necrosis, where the sequestra do not admit of removal. 12. Very great and permanent deformity of the foot. 13. When tetanus comes on, Mr. A. Cooper does not approve of the operation. The treatment of a compound dislocation re- quires the reduction to be effected without delay, and with as little violence and disturbance as pos- sible. If any difficulty of reduction should arise from the bone being girt by the integuments, the opening in them should be dilated with a scalpel. The limb is then to be placed in splints, with the necessary'pads, eighteen-tailed bandage, &c. Mr. A. Cooper judiciously recommends the portions of this bandage not to be sewed together, “ but passed under the leg, so that one piece maybe removed when it becomes stiff;” arid by fixing another to its end, before it is with- drawn, the fresh piece may be applied, without any disturbance of the limb. (Surg. Essuyx, Pari 2, p. 120.) The wound is to be freed from any dirt, clots of blood, or other extraneous matter, and its lips are to be accurately brought together with strips of adhesive plaster. Mr. A. Cooper considers lint dipped in the blood, which oozes out, the best kind of first dressing. The joint is to be covered with linen kept constantly wet with the liquor plutnbi acetatis dilutus, or with what is better, spirit of wine and water; the band- age is to be looselyr laid down, and the splints fastened on the limb with their proper straps, or pieces of tape, and the limb is to be kept per- fectly' at rest in an eligible posture. The patient, if strong and y'oung, is to bo bled. This last practice may be more freely adopted in the country’, than in London, or large hospitals. An anodyne, the first night, or two, will be highly proper. Saline draughts, antimonials, ami * low regimen, are also indicated during the hr*-1 few days of the symptomatic fever, which com- monly follows so serious an accident. According to Mr. A. Cooper, purgative* should be used with the utmost caution; “ (says he,) there cannot be a worse practice, when a limb has been placed in a good position, and