HERNIA. 599 gentleman, who has gained great honour by a most valuable treatise on hernia, remarks, that, “ hernias, which originate in predisposition, gene- rally come on gradually, and almost impercepti- bly ; while those which are produced by bodily exertions, are formed suddenly, and by the im • mediate action of the exciting cause. The occur- rence of the complaint is often indicated, in the first instance, by a fulness, combined with a sense of weakness, about the abdominal ring. The swelling is increased by any action of the respira- tory muscles, and disappears on pressure, and in the recumbent position of the body. It gradually finds its way through the tendon of the external oblique muscle, into the groin, .and afterwards into the scrotum. When a hernia takes place sud- denly, it is generally attended with a sensation of something giving way at the part, and with pain.’’ {Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 29, Edit. 3.) Upon the subject of the immediate cause of herniae, it is observed by Scarpa, that several distinguished modern surgeons, as, for instance, Warton, {Adenograph. cap. il.) Benevoli, (Dissertazioni Chirurghchc, 1.) Rossius, (Acta Nat. cur. T. 2, Ohs. 178.) Brendel (de herni- arum natalihus) and Morgagni, (desed. ct caus. inorb. epist. 43, art. 13,) consider a relaxation and elongation of the mesentery as the principal cause of herniae in general, and of the bubonocele in particular. Hence, say they, the whole mass of intestines, or only a portion of an intestine, descends against the inner orifice of the inguinal ring, presses against this opening, and gradually makes its way out of the abdomen. In exami- ning this pathological point without prejudice, it is incontestable, says Scarpa, that an intestine can- not be moved beyond its natural limits, unless that part of the mesentery, which retains and fixes the bowel in its proper place, be at the same time elongated. But, it does not follow from this, that a relaxation of the mesentery must pre- cede the displacement of the intestine. It ap- pears to Scarpa much more probable, that these two events are simultaneous, and depend upon one and the same cause. “ In the healthy state, the abdomen, consi- dered altogether, is submitted to two opposite forces, which reciprocally balance each other. One is the pressure of the viscera against the abdominal parietes; the other is the reaction of these same parietes upon the viscera, which they contain. If these two forces were in perfect equilibrium in all individuals, and under all the circumstances of life, we should not be in the least subject to herniae. If, when the equilibrium has been broken, every point of the parietes of the belly were to yield equally to the impulse of the viscera, an increase of the volume of the whole abdomen would be the consequence; but, a true hernia would never happen. The cavity of the abdomen is always completely full. The containing and contained parts react upon, and reciprocally compress one another. It is by the effect of this moderate, but equal and unremitting pressure, that all the viscera mutually support each other. Without it, the ligaments of the liver, those of the spleen, and the various mem- branous bands of the intestines in general, would only be feeble means for fixing sucli parts in their respective wtuations. But, there are certain points of the abdominal parietes which naturally present much less resistance than others, and which react with much less power against the pressure made from within outwards by the ab- dominal viscera. Such is particularly the part, which extends from the pubes to tlie anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. This re- lative weakness of some points of the abdominal parietes is very marked in certain individuals, in consequence of a defect of organization. It may also be increased by internal or external causes, which are as various as they are numerous. When, in one of these cases, the pressure made by the viscera-is unusually increased, as happens in a violent effort, a defect in the equilibrium between the two forces above mentioned is oc- casioned ; that is to say, the reaction of the abdominal parietes is no longer proportioned, at least at certain points, to the force of the impulse of the viscera. The conjoined powers of the abdominal muscles, diaphragm, and Levator ani, are then directed and concentrated against the most feeble point of the abdomen, towards which they propel the nearest viscus, or that, which, from its moveableness, is the most liable to dis- placement. If such viscus should happen to be the noose of an intestine, it is evident, that the power, which tends to make it protrude from the belly, must at the same time act upon the cor- responding portion of the mesentery; and the intestine, in passing through the parietes of the abdomen, drags the mesentery after it, and makes this membrane yield arid become elon- gated. When the displaced viscera meet with little resistance on the part of the parietes of the abdomen, the hernia is quickly formed, and the elongation of the mesentery occurs with equal celerity. We have an example of this in the in- guinal congenital hernia: in this case the intes- tine is, in some measure, precipitated into a sac previously prepared for its reception. On the contrary, in the ordinary inguinal hernia, a totally different disposition of the parts renders the pro- gress of the disease much slower. In most in- stances, the hernia is not formed immediately the equilibrium between the impulse of the vis- cera and the reaction of the abdominal parietes, is broken. But in the groin, a slight elevation is first observed, in the direction from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium towards the inguinal ring. Some time afterwards, when the intestine has made its appearance on the outside of the ring, the enlargement of the hernia, and the elongation of the mesentery, make much more rapid, though always simultaneous progress. “ Numerous practical observations, (says Scarpa) concur in proving, that we must not search for the immediate cause of herniae in the relaxation of the mesentery, but rather in a want of equilibrium between the pressure of the vis- cera and the resistance of one or several points of the abdominal parietes. Indeed, herniae are seen occuring from the slightest causes in infants, in-whom the neck of the tunica vagi- nalis is not speedily obliterated, and in indivi- duals, who, from being fat, have all on a sudden become extremely thin. Such women as have had children, are more subject to the disease thun others. Persons also of both sexes, who earn.' considerable burdens, or who play upon wind