WOUNDS. 1205 pushed ; the quantity of blood lost, the state of the pulse, and, whether any bile, feces, or other fluids, known to be naturally contained in some of the abdominal viscera, have been discharged from the orifice of the injury. When the wound is sufficiently large to admit the finger, a surgeon can always learn, whether the injury extends into the abdomen, because the smooth lining of that cavity, and the contained bowels, may be easily felt. There is one chance of deception, however, arising from the possi- bility of mistaking the inside of the sheath of the rectus muscle for the cavity of the peritoneum; and when the examination is made with a probe, particular caution should be used in forming a judgment of the nature of the case; for,'the parts are so soft and yielding, that a very little force will make the instrument pass a consider- able way inward. Every examination of this kind should always be undertaken, if possible, when the patient is exactly in the same position, in which he was at the time of receiving the wound. Formerly, injections were sometimes employed as tests of the penetration of the cavity of the abdomen. This absurd experiment is now very rightly exploded. It is well known to the mo- derns, that the space, termed the cavity of the abdomen, is, in fact, completely filled with the various viscera, and that, in general, an in- jected fluid would not so easily find its way into the bag of the peritoneum, as an unreflecting person might suppose. And, if it were propelled with much force, it would be quite as likely to insinuate itself into the cellular substance of the parietes of the abdomen, or, perhaps, into the sheath of the rectus muscle. The least tortu- osity of the wound, or a piece of bowel, or omen- tum, lying against the internal orifice of the in- jury, would also completely prevent an injection from passing into the abdomen. When a considerable quantity of blood issues from a wound of the abdomen, we may pro- nounce, almost witli certainty, that some large vessel, within its cavity, is injured. Excepting the epigastric artery, which runs on the forepart of the abdomen, along the inner surface of the rectus muscle, no large vessel is distributed to the’muscles, and integuments. At the same time, it is deserving of particular notice, that a large artery may be opened in the abdomen, and not a drop of blood be discharged from the wound. In such cases, the consequent symptoms quickly lead to a suspicion of what has happened. The patient complains of extreme debility and faintness ; his pulse falters; he has cold sweats; and, if the bleeding should not speedily cease, these symptoms are soon followed by death. Sometimes, the extension of the wound into the cavity of the abdomen, is from the first quite manifest, being indicated by the escape of chyle, bilious matter, feces, or other fluids. The vo- miting up of a considerable quantity of blood, or its discharge by stool, affords also the same in- formation. The urine, however, may flow from a wound, which does not actually penetrate the abdomen, for the kidneys, ureter, and bladder may be said to be out of the abdomen, because they are really on the outside of the cavity of the peritoneum. When none of the above symptoms occur; when neither the finger, nor probe, can be intro- duced ; when none of the fluids, known to be contained in the various receptacles in the ab- domen, are discharged from the wound; when the pulse remains natural, and the pain is not ex- cessive ; there is reason to hope, that the wound has not injured parts of greater consequence, than the integuments, and muscles. (Ency- clopedic Methodique, Partie Chir. Art. Abdo- men. ) I have now taken a survey of the criteria, com- monly noticed by writers, for the purpose of en- abling surgeons to discriminate a wound, which penetrates the abdomen, from one which is more superficial. My next duty is to warn the prac- titioner, that too much solicitude to determine this point, is very frequently productive of seri- ous harm. It may be set down, as an axiom in surgery, that in general, •whenever the probing of a wound is not rendered absolutely necessary by some particular object in view, it may be ju- diciously omitted. A narrow, oblique wound may enter the cavity of the abdomen, without there being any particular method of ascertain- ing, whether it has done so, or not. However, this want of positive information is of no prac- tical importance; for, when there are no urgent symptoms, evincing the nature of the case, the treatment ought obviously to resemble that of a simple wound; and whether the wound be deep, or superficial, antiphlogistic remedies are indicated. The edges of a wound, penetrating the abdo- men, but, unattended with injury of the viscera, are to be brought together with sticking-plaster, in the same way as common wounds. Sutures are not generally necessary. Numerous cases may be found in the records of surgery, proving that wounds of the abdomen may be easily united without sutures, provided the surgeon take care to avail himself of the assistance, which may be derived from a suitable position and a proper bandage. But, such cases are less decisive, than relations of the Caesarean operation, the exten- sive wound of which admits of being healed by the same simple means. It is not my' intention to assert, that, in the majority of these examples, sutures were altogether dispensed with; but, the ligatures frequently cut their way through the skin and muscles, and the application of others was impossible, either on account of the particu- lar state of the case, or the patient’s aversion to them. Still the union of such wounds was ac- complished. A bandage, made on the same plan, as that with eighteen tails, would be ex- tremely convenient, for longitudinal wounds of the abdomen. (See Pibrac in Mem. de l'Acad, de Chir. T. 3, 4to.) In the treatment of wounds of the abdomen, sutures may generally be relinquished, not only without harm, but with benefit; for their em- ployment is sometimes the cause of bad sym- ptoms. In one instance, the hiccough and vo- miting could not be appeased by any remedy which was tried. On the fourth day, the wound was inflamed and painful, and it was judged pro- per to cut away two sutures, and employ only simple dressings, with the view of diminishing the pain and swelling. The symptoms quickly abated, and, in a week, were entirely cured, the wound healing up very well. (Op. cit.) However, there are circumstances, in which it