ANEURISM. 170 refused to submit any longer. The tumor did not appear again for nearly a year, although lie returned to very drunken and irregular habits, lie died in aliout two years and a half, with the tumor again appearing, and much increased in volume. The aneurismal sac communicated with the aorta, by a smooth and round opening, oppo- site to one of the sigmoid valves. There can be no doubt of the efficacy of the treatment in this case; and it is highly probable, that his health and his life might have been long pre- served, but for his own indiscretion. In a case somewhat similar, but not so far advanced, the patient appears to have been cured. There was a swelling on the right side of the breast, about six inches in circumference, with a very strong beating. The pulsation was accompanied with a pain, which stretched towards the scapula and the occiput. It was evident, that the disease was an aneurism of the great arch of the aorta. The patient was a crier, of a strong frame, who was accustomed to drink freely. In the four first days, lie was bled eight times, drawing three basins, “ palettes,” in the morning, and two in the evening. On the fifth, the pains and the beating were much lessened, but the pulse was still full. He was again bled once. The pulse was in a favourable state, as to strength, till the seventh day, when it again rose, and the man was twice bled. During this time, the man was kept to a most rigorous diet. A cold poultice of linseed and vinegar was placed on the tumor, and renewed when it became warm. At the end of eight days, the good effects of this plan were very evident; the pain and the pulsation were gone. The patient, though weak, was in health and tranquil. He was now allowed more food by degrees. At the end of four weeks from the commencement of the treatment, he left the Hotel Dieu well. He afterwards led a sober life, and became fatter, without any vestige of disease, except a slight and deep pulsation at the part, in which the aorta may always be felt beating in its natural state. He died two or three years after, of another complaint. His death was not known, and the body was not examined. (See London Men. Review, Vo/. 5, ]>. 123.) Pelletan also cured by similar treatment a large axillary’ aneurism, which was deemed beyond the reach of operative surgery. On the thirteenth day, the patient was reduced to a degree of weakness, which alarmed many of the observers. From that time, all pulsation in the tumor ceased. The contents were gradually absorbed ; and the patient returned to his former laborious life with his arm as strong as ever. The pulse at the wrist was lost in consequence of the ob- literation of the axillary artery, and the limb only receiving blood through the branches of the sub- clavian "artery. “ 1/ y a beaucoup d'exemples, d’aveurismes gueris spontanetnevt el sans Ic serious de I'lirt; (says Pelletan) mais on ve pent /cur comparer Ic cos que nous venons de dderire; l etat extreme dc la maladie, I'energie dis moyens em- ployes, cl I'effet immediat ct successif qui cu cst rebuild, prauvent asset <]ue Ic succcs a cle du tout enlier d Can." (Clinique Chvrurgicnk, Tom. I, p. 80.) In this work, we find not less than three cases, in which aneurism of the aorta is stated to have been effectually cured. One instance was greatly relieved; but, the disease returned, the next year, in consequence of the patient’s intemperate mode of life. In another example, an aneurism at the origin of the aorta was cured; but, tiie disease recurred in another part of that vessel further from-the heart. Even such cases, as proved incurable, to the number of fourteen, all received various degrees of palliation from the treatment adopted. In a modern work of great merit, several other instances are adduced, in which the utility and efficacy of a debilitating plan of treatment are illustrated. (See Hodgson’s Treatise on the Diseases oj' Arteries, y. 146, 147, dir. <S;c.) In the same publication, as I have previously ex- plained, there are several interesting facts, which tend to prove, that when the aneurism of tiie aorta is lessened, or cured, this great vessel itself may remain pervious. The progress of the disease is stopped by the blood coagulating in tiie sac, and closing tiie communication between tiie cavity of tiie aneurism, and that of the artery. It must be confessed, in regard to Valsalva’s mode of treatment, that some experienced men do not place confidence in it. Boyer declares himself against it, as not being really efficacious; and lie states, that some time ago, it was tried twice in the Hotel Dieu of Paris. The first trial was made on a patient with an axillary aneurism, which could not be operated upon on account of its situation; the second on a woman, who had an aneurism of the abdominal aorta. In both cases, tiie tumor was large, and its parietes reduced to the cellular coat, and the surrounding cellular substance. In these two aneurisms, the progress of the swelling was much more rapid, and its rupture happened precisely at the moment, when the treatment had been pushed to the utmost, and there ought to have been the greatest hope. (Trade dcs Maladies (7i>r. T. ■J, p. 121.) Roux expresses his entire disbelief in the pos- sibility of an aneurism of the aorta being ever completely cured by Valsalva's mode of treat- ment, because he imagines, that such change could not happen without the tube of that great vessel becoming impervious, and of tiie lower parts of the body then perishing from stoppage of the circulation. But, lie bears witness to tiie utility of such treatment, and recites a rase, which he attended himself, where an aneurism made a considerable projection on tiie left side of tiie sternum, where the cartilages of the third and fourtli ribs were raised, the tlirobbings very forcible, and the sense of suffocation such, that tiie patient was obliged to keep himself con- stantly quiet; yet, says Roux, though the dis- ease now exists, it forms no prominence on the chest; the pulsations can only be obscurely felt between the ribs; respiration is but slightly oppressed ; and the patient is capable of attend- ing to his business. (Xouvcou.r Kidmens <le Medccitie Opeiatoirc, T. 1, p. 510, Biv. l’aris, 1813. TV. Torli, Dc Aortic Ancurysmatc Ob- srrvolioiics Mine, cum animadv. Pauli i ideal i nglti, 8tie. Cremona:, 1741. D. Sommer, Dis. Sistitis Ancurysmalis Aorlee Plcuritulan mculiaitn Casum. Sir. Berol. 1816.)