DISLOCATION. 357 union allows the limb to obey every species of extraneous impulse, and this symptom, which is besides never single, makes the nature of the case sufficiently manifest. Sometimes, as Mr. A. Cooper lias remarked, a considerable degree of motion continues for a short time after a dislocation: thus, in a man, brought into Guy’s Hospital, whose thigh bone had just been dislocated into the foramen ovale, a great mobility of the femur still remained; but, “in less than three hours, it became iirmly lixed in its new situation by the contraction of the muscles.” (Surgical Essays, Part 1, p 3.) 4. In dislocations with elongation of the dis- placed limb, the general and uniform tension of all the muscles arranged along it, gives to these organs an appearance as if they lay nearer the circumference of the bone, and the limb were smaller, than its fellow. The muscles, how- ever, which belong to the side, from which the dislocated bone has become more distant, appear more tense than the others, and form externally a prominent line. This is very mani- festly the case with the deltoid muscle, when the arm is luxated downward. On the contrary, in dislocations, where the limb is shortened, the muscles are relaxed; but, being irritated, they contract and accommodate themselves to the shortened state of the limb. Hence, the ex- traordinary swelling of their fleshy part, and the manifest tumefaction of the portion of the mem- i ber, to which they belong. We have a striking- example of this in the dislocation of the thigh upward and outward, where the muscles at the aside of the limb form a distinct oblong tumor. The parts, which surround the affected joint, dso experience alterations in their form, when- -ver muscles, connected with the dislocated xme, occupy that situation. Thus, in disloca- ions of the thigh, the buttock on the same ide is flattened, it the bone is carried inward ; iut, it is more prominent, when the thigh bone is •arried outward; and its lower edge is situated ligher, or lower, than in the natural state, ac- •ordingas the luxation may have taken place up- ward or downward. In the complete luxation of he fore-arm backward, the triceps is tense, and orms a cylindrical prominence, owing to thedis- lacement of the olecranon backward, in which isplacement it is obliged to participate. 5. The circumference of the joint itself pre- ents alterations of shape well deserving atten- on, and, in order to judge rightly of this sym- tom, correct anatomical knowledge is of high nportance. Fhe form of the joints principally depends upon ie shape of the heads of the bones. lienee, n: natural relation of the bones to each other mnot be altered without a change being itnme- atdy produced in the external form of the mt. I he changes, which the muscles, passing /cr the luxated joint, at the same time undergo their situation and direction, contribute like— sc to the difference of shape, by destroying the irmony of what may be called the outlines of e limb. When the head of a bone, articulated by cnar- has slipped out of the cavity, instead of 1 plumpness, which previously indicated the • tural relation of parts, the head of the dislo- ct ”°n® may be distinguished at some sur- rounding point of the articulation, while at the articulation itself may be remarked a flatness, caused by one of the neighbouring muscles stretched over the articular cavity, and more deeply may be perceived the outline and depres- sion produced by this cavity itself. The bony eminences, situated near the joint, and whose outlines were gradually effaced in the general form of the member, are rendered much more apparent by the displacement, and project, in a stronger degree, than in the natural state. On this part of the subject, Mr. A. Cooper is particularly correct, when he observes, that the head of the bone can generally be felt in its new situation, excepting in some of the dislo- ctions of the hip, and its rotation is often the best criterion of the accident, Tlte natural pro- minences of bone near the joint, cither disappear, or become less conspicuous, as the trochanter at the hip-joint. Sometimes the reverse occurs ; J'or in dislocations of the shoulder, the acromion pro- jects more than usual. (Surg. Essays, Fart f, V• 4-) The lines, made by the contour of the limb and the natural •relation of the bones, are so .manifestly broken in dislocations of ginglymoid joints, that, when there is no inflammatory swell- ing, the case is intelligible in an instant. More certain knowledge, however, and more correct information, respecting the kind of displacement, are to be obtained, by attentively examining the changes of position, which the bony prominences, forming the termination of the bones articulated together, have undergone, and which are the more obvious in these joints, inasmuch as they give attachment to the principal muscles. 'I’lie natural relations of these processes being known, the least error of situation ought to strike the well-informed attentive practitioner. Tlius, in the elbow joint, a considerable difference in the respective height, and in the distances between the olecranon and internal and external condyles, can be easily distinguished. But, the tiling is less easy, when the surrounding parts are so swelled and tense, as to make the bony pro- jections deeper from the surface, and less obvi- ous to examination. Even then, however, a good surgeon will at least find something to make him suspect the dislocation, and the suspicion will be confirmed when he again examines the part on the swelling beginning to subside, it is of the utmost consequence to make out what the case is as early as possible; for, the un- natural state, in which the soft parts are placed, keeps up the swelling a long while; and if the surgeon wait till this has entirely subsided, be- fore he ascertains that the bones are luxated, he will have waited till it is too late to think of re- ducing them, dnd the patient must remain for ever afterwards deprived of the free use of his limb. (Boyer, 'Trait6 dcs Maladies Clnr. /'. 4, p. 45, tjjv.j It is not only the inflammatory swelling, which may tend to conceal the state of the ends of the hone; sometimes a quicker tumor arises from the effusion of blood in the cellular membrane, and causes an equal difficulty of feeling the exact position of the heads ol the bones. r ( Dislocations are also, sometimes, attended with particular symptoms, arising altogether from the pressure caused by thohead ol the luxated bone