HYDROPHOBIA. 6M their wounds are not followed by rabies ; and as a modern author remarks, it hydrophobia were referrible to nervous irritation derived from the wounded part, how does it happen, that, amongst the thousands of wounded after a great battle, hydrophobia is not seen instead of tetanus. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 6*1.) But, if it were vet possible to entertain a doubt of an infectious principle in hydrophobia, this pos- sibility would be removed by the reflection, that the disease may be communicated to healthy animals by inoculating them with the saliva of certain other rabid animals. In fact, as I have stated, the bites of such animals are in every point of view only an inoculation; and the same remark may be extended to the numerous instances on record, in which the disease arose in the human subject, as a consequence of a rabid dog, or cat, (not suspected to be in this state at the time) having been played with, fondled, or suffered to lick the naked skin, in which there was at the moment some slight scratch, entirely overlooked. Many of the ancient writers not only believed in the hydrophobic virus, or infectious principle, but even in its diffusion through the blood, flesh, and secretions in general; and this hypothesis was professed by Boerhaave, Van Swieten, Sau- vages, F. Hoffman, &c. but, in proportion, as the humoral pathology lost ground, the foregoing idea was abandoned, and the opinion adopted, that the infection is confined to the saliva, and Wounded part, in which it has been inserted. The tales of some old authors would lead one to think, that hydrophobia may be communicated by eating the flesh of a rabid animal. (Feme- tins, De Obs. Rer. Cans, et Morb. Epidem. lib. 2, cap. 14; Schenckius; Mangetus, S(C.) But, respecting these accounts, it is remarked, that they are not entitled to much confidence; for, it is certain, that rabies never begins as is stated, with regard to some of the cases in question, a few hours after the application of its cause, and its early stage is never characterized by any fury, or disposition to bite. And, besides, how can such relations be reconciled with the practice of the ancients, who, according to Pliny, em- ployed the liver of the mad dog, or wolf, as a remedy? Palmarius also fed his patients for three days with the dried blood of the rabid animal. (Mem. de la Soc. de Med. p. 136, ct le No. 178.) The flesh of a bullock, which had been bit by a mad dog, and afterwards died rabid, was sold to the inhabitants of Medola near Man- tua, yet none of them were attacked with hydro- phobia. (Aiidry, Richerches sur la Rage, <%c. p. 30.) Dr. Le Camus informed Lorry, that he had eaten the flesh of animals, which died rabid, but he suffered no inconvenience from the experiment. And, it is stated in the letter of Dr. L.1 Valentin, that the negroes in the United States of America had no illness from eating the flesh of pigs, which had died of rabies. (Journ. Gen. dc Med. T. 30, p. 417.) As for the question, whether the blood is infected? It is generally considered to be settled in the negative, notwithstanding the account given by Lemery of a dog, which was attacked with rabies, as is said, from lapping the blood of a hydrophobic patient, who had been bled. (Hist, de l'Acad. Royale des Sciences, 1707, p- 25.) Dupuytren, Brescliet, and Magendie, were never able to communicate rabies by rubbing wounds with blood taken from mad dogs; and they even se- veral times Injected such blood into the veins of other healthy dogs, yet none of these latter ani- mals were attacked with rabies, though they were kept for a sufficient length of time to leave no doubt upon the subject. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 63.) A point of greater practical interest, than the former, is, whether the drinking of the milk of an animal, labouring under rabies, is attended with any risk of communicating the disease? It is asserted by Timaeus, that a peasant, bis wife, children, and several other persons, were seized with hydrophobia, in consequence of drinking the milk of a rabid cow; and that the husband and eldest child were saved by' medical treatment; but, that the wife and four of the children died. It is further stated, that three or four months afterwards, the maid and a neigh- bour, who had partaken of the milk of the same cow, also died of hydrophobia. (Cons. 7, Obs. 33.) In opposition to this account, however, several facts, reported by other writers of greater credit, tend to prove, that hydrophobia cannot be communicated by the milk of a rabid animaL (Nova Acta Nat. Cur. Vol. 1, Obs. 55; Bau- dot, in Mem. dc la Soc. Royals dc illed. an 1782 ct 83, T. 2,p. 91.) The cases, reported by- F. Hoffman and Cha- bert, with the view of proving the possibility of infection, through the medium of the semen, are of no weight, because, on a critical examination of them, it will be found, that the infection of the women is stated to have taken place very- soon after their husbands had been bit, which is quite at variance with the established character of the disease, as it never commences, and of course cannot be propagated in any manner, soon after the receipt of the bite. Besides, these histories are refuted by- others of greater accu- racy. (See Baudot in Mem. dc la Soc. Royale dcMcd. an 1782, §c.fp. 92 ; Rivallier,Yol. cit. p. 136; p. 211; Bouteille, p. 237 ; Boissiere, in Journ. Gen. de Med. T. 17, p. 296.) Neither can hydrophobia be imparted by the breath, notwithstanding the statements of Caelius, Aurelianus, and some other old writers. A nurse, mentioned by Dr. J. Vaughan, repeatedly' kissed a hydrophobic infant, which she had suckled, and exposed herself incessantly' to its breath, but without the least ill effects. The fear, which has also been entertained of the dis- order being receivable from the application of the patient’s perspiration to the skin, is not founded upon any authentic facts. Does the infectious principle of rabies reside in the salivary secretion, or in the mucus of the trachea and bronchiae? The common belief is, that, in hydrophobia, the salivary glands are considerably affected. But, it has been re- marked by a modern writer, that if these glands exhibit no morbid alteration during the whole course of the disorder; if they are found healthy after death; if the air-passages are the seat of inflammation ; if the saliva does not constitute the frothy slaver about the lips; and if such slaver, wherewith the disease may be communicated by inoculation, is derived from the inflamed wind- pipe and bronchiae, and consists of mucus con- verted into a kind of foam by the convulsive man-