ANEURISM. 123 acknowledges, that we have contributed more than his countrymen, both in the last and present century, to the improvement of this branch of surgerv. (Roux Purulleie de la Chirurgie Au- L-Lase uvec la Chirurgie Frimqoise, <$fc. p. 249.) But, ere M. Roux ventured into such conjectures, he ought at least to have specified what particular occupations and kind of labour are known by Eng- lishmen themselves to be frequently conducive to aneurism, for, with the exception of postilions .and coachmen, of whom there are also abundance in France, I am not aware that any determi- nate class of persons are found in this country to be afi’ected with particular frequency. In some instances, aneurisms of the axillary . irtery appear to have arisen from violent exten- sion of the limb. (See the cases recorded by . Pelletanin Clinique Chimrgicale, Tarn. 2, p. 49, : mil 83.) In other examples, related by the same uteresting practical writer, aneurisms arose from reiterated contusions and rough pressure on parts, [Op. at. p. 10, P. 14.) The extremity of a fractured bone may injure i in artery, and give rise to an aneurism, instances )f which are recorded by Pelletan, (Op.at Turn. ], i. 178,) and Duverney (Traits des Mai. des ns, T. 1.) In Pelletan’s case, the disease followed a racture of the lower third of the leg. An aneu- ism of the anterior tibial artery, from such a ause, is also described by Mr.X). White. (Cases ’H Surgery, p. 141.) The following case of an aneurism of the hu- meral artery', after amputation, is recorded by i-Varner: C. D. was afflicted with a caries of the lint of the elbow, which was attended with such i ircumstances, as rendered the amputation of the mb necessary. The operation was performed at proper distance above the diseased part, and the essels were taken up with needles and ligatures. In a few days the humeral artery became so dated above the ligature upon it as to endanger s bursting. Hence it was judged necessary to erform the operation for the aneurism, which was one, and the vessel secured by ligature, above le upper extremity of its distended coats. Every ling now went on, for some time, exceedingly' ell, when suddenly the artery again dilated, and as in danger of bursting above the second liga- ire. These circumstances made it necessary to ■peat the operation for the aneurism. From this • me, every thing went on successfully, till the ump was on the point of being healed; when, i aite unexpectedly, the artery appeared a third rne diseased in the same manner as it had been reviously, for which reason, a third operation r aneurism was determined on, and performed. Tin; last operation was near the axilla, and was it followed by any relapse. Could the several aneurisms of the humeral " tery, (says Mr. Warner) be attributed to tbs dden check alone, which the blood met with om the extremity of the vessel being secured r' ligature; or is it not more reasonable to sup- >se, that the coats of the artery, nearly as high • as the axilla, were originally diseased and wakened? The latter, in the opinion of this ju- cious writer, seems the most probable wav of counting for the successive returns of the dis- Ise of the vessel; since it is found fromexperi- >ce, that such accidents have been very rarely town to occur after amputations, either of the arm, or thigh, where nearly the same resistance must be made to the circulation in every subject of an equal age and vigour, who has undergone such operation. If it should be supposed, that the several dila- tations of the coats of the vessel, continues Mr. Warner, arose merely from the check in the cir- culation, it will not be easy to account for the final success of this operation ; and, especially when we reflect, that the force of the blood is in- creased in proportion to its nearness to the heart. (See Casts m Surgery, p. 139, 140, Edit. 4.) Ruysch has related an observation somewhat similar. (Ohs. Ana!. C/dr. T. 1 .p. 4.) Aneurisms sometimes follow the injury, which a large artery suffers in gunshot wounds. The passage of a bullet through the thigh, in one ex- ample, gave rise to a femoral aneurism. (See the Parisian Chirurgical Journal, vol. 2, p. 109-) The same cause produced an aneurism high up the thigh of a soldier, who was under the care of my'friend Mr Collier at Brussels, after the battle of Waterloo. PROGNOSIS. In cases of aneurism, the prognosis varies ac- cording to a variety' of important circumstances. The disease may generally be considered as ex- ceedingly dangerous; for, if left to itself, it al- most alu’ays terminates in rupture, and the patient dies of hemorrhage. There are on record some examples, however, in which a spontaneous cure took place, and aneurismal swellings have been known to lose their pulsation, become hard, smaller, and gradually reduced to an indolent tu- bercle, which has entirely disappeared. After death, the artery, in such instances, has been found obliterated, and converted into a ligament- ous cord, without any vestige of the aneurism being left. Aneurisms are also sometimes at- tacked with mortification; the sac and adjacent parts slough away; the artery is closed with coa- gulum; and thus a cure is effected. Lastly', tumors, having all the character of aneurisms, have been known to disappear under the employ- ment of such pressure, as was certainly too feeble to intercept entirely the course of the blood. Such examples of success, however, are not com- mon, and whenever they happen, it is because the entrance of blood into the sac is. prevented by that already contained in it having coagulated, and because the artery above the swelling becomes filled with coagulum. They must, in fact, have been cured on the very same principle, which renders the surgical operation successful. Nothing is subject to more variety', than the duration of an aneurism previously to its rupture, the tumour bursting sooner or later, according as the patient happens to lead a life of labour, or ease, of intemperance, or moderation. Even the bursting of an internal aneurism may not imme- diately kill the patient, as the following uncom- mon instance proves; a. stonecutter died in the hospital Saint Louis with an enormous aneurism, situated on the left side of the lumbar vertebrae. The body was opened by Richerand, who found, that the external tumour consisted of blood, which had been effused into a cyst, that was formed in the midst of the cellular substance o the loins. This fluid had passed into the situation specified, by making its way through the muscles. The tract, through which it came, led into ano-