ANUS. planation could only be admitted with regard to those protrusions of the rectum, which come on in a very slow manner. This account could not afford a satisfactory explanation of certain cases, in which the everted intestine presents itself in the form of an enormous tumour. Fa- bricius ab Aquapendente mentions his having seen tumours occasioned by a prolapsus of the rectum, which were as long as the forearm, and as large as the fist. In the Melanges des Curieux de la Nature, we find an account of a tumour of this sort, which was two feet long, and occurred in a woman from parturition. Nor is a more satisfactory reason assigned for these cases, by supposing, that they originate from a relaxation of the villous coat of the rectum, and its separation from the muscular one. We are not authorized to imagine, that such a separation can take place to a considerable extent, nor so suddenly, as to give rise to the phenomena, sometimes remarked in this disease. Accurate observations long ago removed all doubt upon this subject. In the eleventh volume of the Memoires de I’Academie de Chirurgie, edit, in 12mo. we read an account of a pretended prolapsus of the rectum, which, after death, was discovered to be an eversion of the ccecum, the greater part of the colon being found at the lower end of this intestine, and most of the rectum at its upper part. This eversion began at the distance of more than eleven inches from the anus, and terminated about five or six from this opening, the tumour, formed by the disease, having been reduced some time before the child’s death. It was impossible to draw back the everted part, in consequence of the adhesions, which it had contracted. Another dissection evinced the same fact. A child, having suf- fered very acute pain in the abdomen, after receiving a blow, had a prolapsus of intestine through the anus, about six or seven inches long. This was taken for a prolapsus of the rectum. After death, the termination of the protruded bowel was found to be the ccecum, which had passed through the colon, and rectum. (See Intussusception.) The reader may consult with advantage: I1 Encyclopedic Mdthodique, Parlie Chirurgicule, De la chute du fondement, Tom. l.p. 150. Gooch’s Chirurgical Worksf Vol. 2,p. 150. Edit. 1792. Recherches Historiques, sur la Gastrotomie, ou Vouverture du bus-ventre, dans le cas du Volvulus, fyc. par M. Hemn in Mem. dc l’Acad. Royule de Chirurgie, Tom. 11, p. 315. Edit, in 12mo. Richerand’s Nosographie Chirurgicale, Tom. 3, p. 444, Edit. 4, &;c. Richter’s Anfungsg. der Wundarzn. B. 6, p. 403. Edit. 1802. Callisen’s Syst. Chirurgie? Hodierncc, T. 2, p. 521, Edit. i 800. Hcy’s Practical Obs. in Surgery, p. 438, #c. 8 vo. Edit. 2. 1810. ANUS, ARTIFICIAL. This signifies an accidental opening in the parietes of the abdomen, to,which opening some part of the intestinal canal tends, and through which the feces arc, either wholly, or in part, dis- charged. An artificial anus is always preceded by an in- jury of the intestinal canal, either a penetrating wound of the abdomen, ulceration of the bowel, and the bursting of an abscess externally; an operation, in which the preternatural opening is purposely made, with the view of saving life in particular cases of imperforate anus; an acci- dental wound of the gut in the operation for her- nia ; or, lastly, and, most commonly, mortifica- tion of the bowel, the effect of the violence and long continuance of the strangulation of the part. All these cases are further divisible into such, as are attended with a destruction of a portion of the intestinal tube, and into those, which are not ac- companied with any such loss of substance. Whatever may be the kind of injury, which the bowel has sustained, one thing here invariably happens, viz. the adhesion of the two divided portions of the intestine to the edge of the open- ing in the parietes of the abdomen. This occur- rence, which has the most salutary effect in pre- venting extravasation of the contents of the bowel in the cavity of the abdomen, is produced by inflammation, which precedes gangrene, and follows wounds. (See (Euvres Chir. de Desault, T. 2, p. 352—354.) When, in strangulated hernia, the case is not relieved by the usual means; or when the neces- sary operation has not been practised in time; the protruded bowel sloughs; the adjoining part of it adheres to the neck of the hernial sac ; and the gangrenous mischief spreads from within outwards. If the patient live long enough, and an incision in the tumor be not now' practised, one or more openings soon form in the integuments, and, through these apertures, the feoes are discharged, until the separation of the sloughs gives a freer vent to the excrement. But when an incision is made, the feces are more readily discharged, and, as Mr. Travers has related, this is sometimes the best mode of relief. “ In the ordinary situation of hernia, (as this gentleman has correctly explained), the portions of intestine, embraced by the stricture, occupy a position nearly parallel. Their contiguous sides mutually adhere; in the remainder of their cir- cumference, they adhere to the peritoneum, lin- ing, or forming the stricture. The existing ad- hesion of the contiguous sides, strengthened by the adhesion of the parts in contact, insures a par- tial continuity upon the separation of the sphace- lated part. The line of separation is the line of stricture. It commences on that side of the gut, which is in direct contact w'ith the stricture. As the separation advances, the opposite adhering sides may perhaps recede somewhat, and a little en- large the angle of union. But, it is ever afterwards an angle; and, where the peritoneum is deficient, the canal is simply covered in by granulations from the cellular membrane of the parietes, coa- lescing with those of the external, or cellular surface of the peritoneum.” (On the Process of Nature in repairing bijuries of the Intestines, p. SCO.) It must be confessed, that few surgeons have entertained sufficiently accurate ideas of the changes, which happen around the w'ounded, or mortified portion of intestine, when an artifi- cial anus is produced; and, though Desault’s account wras excellent, as far as it went, it was not until the year 1809, when Scarpa published his valuable work on Hernia, that the whole process of nature on such occasions was completely elu- cidated. The hernial sac, (says he) does not al- ways partake of gangrene with the viscera con- tained in a hernia, and even when it does slough. ... ■