ABDOMEN. Senachas spoken of these abdominal pulsations, as sometimes occurring in hypochondriacal and chlorotic patients; and, as they frequently sub- side, without leaving any vestige behind, he sets them down as nervous affections. {Truitt ties Mai. du Ccear.) De Haen had under his care a hypochondria- cal patient, affected with pulsations in the abdo- men; which, with other complaints, were dis- pelled by means of brisk opening medicines. (Heilung’s Met/We Ubersetzt von Plaltner. Leipz. 1782. 2 B. S. 29.) Thilenius observed a flatulence of the stomach, which he represents as having been epidemic, and attended, in some patients, with pulsations at the scrobiculus cordis. {Med. Chir. Bernerk. Frankf. 1789. & 211,—217.) My friend, Mr. Hodgson, also, in speaking of pulsations in the epigastrium, which are not the consequence of organic disease, and occur in irritable hypochondriac subjects, states his opinion, that, in some instances, such pulsations were a consequence of distention of the stomach with air, which was thrown against the abdominal muscles by the pulsation of the great blood vessels; and, in these cases, the throbbing was diminished by the eructations. (On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 96.) These abdominal pulsations are also described by Zuliani, as a symptom of hypochondriasis and hysteria. (De Apoplexia, Lips. 1790, p. 79). They also happen in certain febrile diseases. (Versuchiiber den Pemphygusunddas B'asenfieber von C. G. C. Braune, Leipz. 1795, S. 23; and Dr. 11. Jackson on the Fevers of Jamaica, 8m. Land. 1791.) In a dissertation on cramp in the stomach, Hail remarks, “ Quin immo, ubi diutius vexavit gastrodynia, continuos aegrotans persentit spas- mos, ut et haud raro pulsationem quandam plane singularem, in cardia et ventriculo, pulsui autem cordis minime synchrone.” (Diss. de Gastrodynia, Upsak 1797.) In the same essay is also given an account of a man, who had violent palpitations in the epigastric region, apparently first excited by the larva of the musca pendula, many of which were vomited up. Pinel is another writer who describes these abdominal pulsations, as an occasional symptom of hypochondriasis. “ Palpitations du coeur, et quelquefois une sorte de pulsation irreguliere, dans quelque partie de f abdomen.” (Nosngraphie Philosophiijue, T. 2, p. 25, Pa ris, an. 6'.) Dr. Albers details some cases which fell under his own notice. A young woman, whose menses were upon her, and who had been for some days constipated, was seized with frequent fainting fits and febrile symptoms, occasionally voidingfrom the bowels a quantity of dark matter, each evacuation of which was followed by a swoon. One morn- ing at live o’clock Dr. Albers was sent for, as it was feared the patient was about to die. She was extremely exhausted, and the fainting fits followed each other with hardly any intervals. She could just say, “ I feel a throbbing in the belly; ’ and, when Dr. Albers applied his hand to the part, he felt a violent pulsation, extending from the ensiform cartilage down to about the ifurcation of the aorta. The action of lire heart was weaker than natural; the pulse at the wrist very small, but not quicker than it hud been on the preceding day, and was not synchronous to the throbbing in the abdomen. Dr. Albers confesses, that at first he took the case for an aneurism. Dr. MeyerhofT was of the same opi- nion. Another physician, however, Dr. Wein- holt, entertained doubts of the complaint being aneurismal, saying, that he recollected having read some similar cases in Morgagni. These gentle- men decided to persevere in the employment of opening medicines and clysters, combining opium with theformer. Under this plan, the pulsations in the abdomen and tightness of the chest diminished in a few days. The stools were at first of the colour of chocolate, but afterwards resumed their natural appearance. The throbbings, in a weakened form, however, were perceptible for six weeks longer. The patient at length got quite well, and was remaining so four years afterwards. A man, about 40, severely afflicted with hy- pochondriasis, great oppression of the chest, constipation, and tension of the abdomen, ten- dency to fainting, &c., complained to Dr. Albers, that he felt as if his heart had fallen down into his belly, where he was annoyed with an incessant throbbing. Indeed when Dr. Albers examined the abdominal parietes, he could feel a very strong pulsation, and, what is curious, could trace it not only along the track of the aorta, but in the course of the left iliac artery. The pulse at the wrist, which was small, frequent, and hard, did not correspond with the abdominal pul- sations. For several days, the evacuations from the bowels had been as black as pitch. After the employment of gentle purgatives, all the corn- plaints quickly abated, though the throbbings were feebly perceptible for nine months afterwards. The next case, which Dr. Albers met with, is very interesting. A robust sailor, whose bowels were so constipated, that hardly the strongest purgative could affect them, was seized with con- stant pain in the left hypochondrium. With this complaint were soon joined great pain in the back and a sensation as if something alive moved about in the belly from one side to the other, and thence extended up to the neck, followed by the vomiting of a greenish matter. At the same time,' he felt in the left side a pulsation, which he took for that of the heart, and which continued the whole of his illness. The pulse at the wrist was na- tural, and synchronous with that in the ahdotnen. In the beginning of the disorder, the patient was obliged to sit with his body very much inclined forward, as no other posture could be endured. For the first week, opening medicines afforded so much relief, that he was sometimes quite free from pain for six or eight hours. After a time, a round swelling formed in the left hypochon- drium, and reached to the navel, and attained with incredible quickness the size of a child's head. Indeed, it could now be traced beyond the umbilicus to the right side. The motions were quite of a dark colour, or else red blood and a puri- form matter was discharged. Sometimes the blocd voided was of a bright red colour, sometimes it was dark, coagulated, and mixed with bile. The patient was at length worn out with febrile symptoms, and died. On opening the body, Dr. Albers found a swelling in the middle of the mesentery, the texture of which cannot be easily described, and the circumference of which was lb' French inches. The stomach was filled with coagulated