44<) FRACTURES. ciraeas of our wrong precepts ami bad practice. M. Roux, in fact, has had but too much room for animadversion upon this subject. We have not only not made a single improvement of con- sequence in the treatment of any particular frac- ture, but the generality of our surgical writers have given the most faulty and imperfect ac- count of the diagnosis, and every thing else re- lating to these accidents. What is worse, a view of our practice conveys no better opinion of tins part of our surgery. Observe the care and neat- fiess, with which a French surgeon applies the bandages, and splints, and consider how well every indication is accomplished by his apparatus, and you will find great cause both for admira- tion and imitation. On the other hand, see the slovenly way, in which an English surgeon gene- rally puts on the splints and roller, and the un- scientific method, in which he usually treats a fractured thigh, or clavicle, and you cannot fail i.o be ^shamed of the comparison. This was a matchless opportunity for M. Roux to draw a parallel in favour of French surgery, and of course he has not neglected it, many pages of his work being devoted to an explanation of the many improvements Desault made; the little, or rather the nothing, which we have done; and the errors, to which we unfortunately still adhere. .(See Voyageja.il a Loud ref en 1814, ou Pural- leie de la Chirurgie Angloise attec la Cldrurgie Fraiifoise, p. 173, >S'c ) It is to be hoped, how- ever, that the period has now arrived, when we shall give to the study of fractures the time, the attention, and the importance, which it claims ; and when even the young hospital pupil will not be convinced, that his lecturer by one or two cur- sory discourses can have done justice to the subject. , In this article, my plan is to follow the ar- rangement pursued by Boyer, in his “ Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, T. 3.’’ I shall first speak of fractures in general, and allot separate sections to the’consideration of; 1. Their dif- ferences; ‘2. Their causes; 3. Their symptoms; 4. Their prognosis; t>. Their treatment; 6. The ; formation of callus. The subject will then conclude with a full ac- count of the symptoms, causes, and treatment of the fractures of particular hones. 1. Differences of Fractures. The differences of fractures depend upon what bone is broken ; what portion of it is fractured; the direction of the fracture; the respective position of the fragments; and, lastly, upon circumstances accompanying the injury, and making it simple, compound, or variously com- plicated. 1. In respect to llie bone affected. Sometimes it is one of the broad bones, as the scapula, the sternum, or the os ilium. Sometimes it is a diort hone, like the os calcis ; but, far more com- monly it is one of the long bones. The situa- lon and functions of the broad hones render dieir fractures unfrequent. The hones of the skull are the only exception to this remark, for hey are olten broken; hut, here the assistance ff the surgeon is required less for the solution of continuity itself, than for the afieetion of the )iain, and the extravasation of blopd, with sh;ch the case is apt to he combined. Fractures of the short hones arc still more unusual, because these hones, being nearly equal in their three dimensions, are capable of greater resistance, and are not much within the reach of external violence. Besides, most of them are but little exposed to the operation of outward force, by their situation, or functions. Hence, unless limbs are crushed, fractures of short hones are generally caused by the action of the muscles, xjdiich also frequently breaks the patella, olecra- non, and os calcis. The long hones, which serve as pillars, or arches of support, or levers', are by the very nature of their functions, particularly liable to fractures. 2. In respect to the part of the hone broken. Bones may be fractured at different points of their length. Most commonly, their middle por- tion is broken, and, in this circumstance, they usually break like a stick, which has been bent beyond its extensibility by a force applied at each end of it. Sometimes the fracture occurs more or less near the extremities of the hone, which is always an unfavourable event, as will he explained in considering the prognosis. Lastly, the bone is sometimes broken in several places, and the injury may be produced by two different causes, which have operated successively, or simultane- ously, upon the broken parts of the hone; or it may he occasioned by one single cause, which has acted at the same moment upon several points of it. These distinctions of fractures, deduced from their particular situation, (says Boyer) are not merely scholastic refinements ; they have truly an important influence over the prognosis and treatment, as will be hereafter seen. 3. In respect to the direction, in which the hove is broken. A hone may he fractured in various ways, and the fracture receives different names, according to its direction in regard to the axis of the bone. Thus, fractures are distinguished into transverse and antique. The obliquity renders the surface of the injury larger, and materially increases the difficulty of maintaining the ends of the hone in contact, after they have been set. Oblique fractures are subject to considerable variety, which depends upon the degree of their obliquity, and whether they are partly oblique and partly transverse. When a bone is broken in different places at once, and divided into seve- ral fragments, or splinters, the fracture is termed c uoinn.u ed. Duverney admitted another class of fractures, viz. longitudinal. (See Traite ties Multeities des Or, T. i, p. 167.) But J L. Petit regarded this species as only imaginary, because he con- ceived that any blow, which was capable of breaking a bone longitudinally, would much more readily cadse a transverse fracture. For the same reason, Louis absolutely rejected the possibility of longitudinal fractures, and this sentiment has been the prevailing one up to the present day. The following case, however, is related by Le- veille, in order to prove the possibility of longi- tudinal fractures. This surgeon amputated the thigh of an Austrian soldier, who was put under his care in the yeur I8C0, in consequence ot being struck bv a hall in the lower third of the leg at the battle of Marengo. I he soldier had walked several miles, after receiving the in-