ANEURISM. 135 ing retraction of its connexions. How far the retraction of the artery is beneficial, or injurious, is by no means evident; and the advantages arising from it may in most situations be ob- tained, without dividing the vessel, by placing the limb in a bent position. One important object, however, is gained by the division of the artery; namely, that it is generally in that case tied close to its connexions; and it is very evi- dent how liable the application of the ligature in the middle of a denuded extent of the vessel must be to produce ulceration or sloughing of its coats. The same object, however, will be gained by tying the undivided artery close to its connexions at the end nearest to the heart; and the existence of a single ligature at the bottom of the wound will be less liable to give rise to suppuration and the formation of sinuses, than the employment of two. When an artery is divided, the portions situated beyond the ligatures, must slough, and prove an additional cause of suppuration in the wound. Experience has amply proved the safety of employing a single ligature, and it is at present used by many of the most experienced operators in this country. (See Hodgson's Treatise on the Diseases of Ar- teries, Sfr. p. 221, Sfc.) According to Scarpa, numerous examples of the failure of the plan of applying two ligatures, and cutting through the artery in the interspace, are already generally known to the profession, and there are many expert and ingenious sur- geons, who do not dissemble the disadvantage and uncertainty of this practice. He speaks of one failure, which occurred to Mr. Abernethy himself. But, I entertain doubts how far any in- ference against the method can be drawn from Monteggia’s instance, in which a ligature of reserve had been used. Nor can I understand, how a circumstance, which Scarpa strongly in- sists upon, can be well founded, I mean, the danger of the ligature being forced off the mouth of the artery by the impulse of the blood. Any risk of this kind cannot exist if the ligature be duly applied, as Dr. Jones has particularly explained; and, at all events, how can it be greater here, than after amputation, where it is not usually made a subject of complaint ? In- deed, the several examples of secondary hemor- rhage, after this method, quoted by Scarpa from the practice of Monteggia, Morigi, and Assalini, may be more rationally imputed either to reserve ligatures having been also used, or the common fear in Italy of applying the ligatures tightly; in which event, one can readily suppose, that the ligature might really slip, or by remaining a long time on the vessel might give rise to dan- gerous ulceration. Thus, Morigi speaks of one case, in which the bleeding occurred on the nine- teenth day. (Scarpa on Aneurism, p. 1 4, Ed. 2.) On the whole, I am disposed to believe, that when this method has been executed precisely according to Mr. Abernethy’s directions, it has not often failed; and I am acquainted with only one case in London, in which it was followed by secondary hemorrhage. However, in the year 1807, Mr. Norman, of Bath, tied the fe- moral artery with two ligatures and divided the vessel between them; the upper ligature came a'v»y °n the sixteenth day after the operation; the lower one on the fifteenth ; and the following day a profuse hemorrhage came on, the patient losing a pound of blood. Pressure with a com- press and wet bandage was continued for some time, and the wound healed. (See Med. Chir. Trans. VoL. 10, p. 123.) This is the only case of secondary hemorrhage, which he has met with after operating for aneurisms. Scarpa very properly urges, that the applica- tion of two ligatures, and dividing the artery in the interspace, can never be an eligible mode, where the smallness of the space, the depth of the artery, and the importance of the surround- ing parts, do not permit the vessel to be se- parated and insulated to such an extent, as is required for dividing it, with a probability of the division of it being sufficiently distant from the two ligatures. Such for example, are the cases of ligature of the carotid in the vicinity of the sternum; of the iliac above Poupart’s liga- ment; of the internal iliac, a little below its origin from the common iliac; of the axillary artery between the point of the coracoid process and the acromial portion of the clavicle; or of the subclavian in its passage between the scaleqi muscles. Scarpa then comments on the dif- ficulty and even impossibility of taking up the end of the truncated artery again in many situa- tions, were hemorrhage to ensue; and he joins Mr. Hodgson in thinking the advantages of the method, even where it is practicable, by no means demonstrated. Nay, he goes further; for he agrees with Heister, Cullisen, and Richter in setting it down as worse than useless, on ac- count of the portion of the artery between the ligatures being converted into a dead and putrid substance, which rests upon the bottom of the wound, from which it cannot be removed, until the two ligatures are separated. Here, deeply impressed with the truth of principles, which perhaps he has rather lost sight of in speaking of his own particular method, he com- ments on the little probability of the wound uniting, under the disadvantage of two ligatures hanging out of it, and of sloughs at its bottom. He argues correctly, that the laying bare, and insulating a large portion of artery, would often be objectionable on the ground, that it could not be done, without the surgeon being obliged to apply the principal ligature too near the origin of a large lateral branch; as for example would be the case in a case of inguinal aneurism, situated an inch and a quarter below the origin of the profunda. Thus, a coagulum could not be formed, and the artery would be in danger of not being closed. On the contrary, by employ- ing only a single ligature at an inch and a quarter, below the origin of the profunda, the operation would be equally simple and successful. (Scarpa ou Aneurism, p. 19—21, Ed. 2.) The frequent occurrence of accidents after the introduction of Mr. Hunter’s operation, how- ever, might have been ascribed to more probable causes, than the condition of an undivided artery, upon which the ligature was applied. The em- ployment of numerous ligatures gradually tight- ened, or the introduction of extraneous bodies into the wound, were alone sufficient to produce ulceration of the artery: and such practices were adopted in most of the cases, in which seconi ary hemorrhage took place. After the reasons, which have been urged agains