181 ANUS. Sometimes the colon terminates in a sac, and the rectum is entirely deficient. (See Beaure- gard, in Jcurv. tie Al&d. i. 66.) Instances are also upon record, where the rectum opened into the urethra. {Brest. Sammt. 1718, p. 702 ; His/, ile i.' Avail. Roy ale des Sciences. 17.92; p. 113; Ilochsteitcr, m Med. Wochenblatt, 1780, No. 18 —1783, Aro. 19 ; Kretschmur, in Horn's Archie. 1 B. p. 350.) When a surgeon is consulted, he must not lose much time in deliberation; for, if a speedy opening be not made for the feces, the infant will certainly very soon perish, with symptoms similar to those of a strangulated hernia. After ascer- taining the complaint, which is an easy matter, he should endeavour to learn, whether the anus is merely shut by a membrane, or fleshy adhesion, or whether the anus is altogether wanting, in consequence of the lower portion of the cavity of the gut being obliterated, or the rectum not extending sufficiently far down. When a membrane, or production of the skin closes the opening of the rectum, the part pro- ducing the obstruction is somewhat different in colour from the neighbouring integuments. It is usually of a purple or livid hue, in consequence of the accumulation of the meconium on its inner surface. The meconium, propelled downward by the viscera above, forms a small roundish pro- minence, which yields like dough to the pressure of the fingers; but immediately projects again when the pressure is removed. When a fleshy adhesion closes the intestine, the circumstance is obvious to the eye, if the part protrude, which is generally the case. The finger feels greater hard- ness and resistance than when there is a mere membrane, and the livid colour of the meconium cannot be seen through the obstructing substance. These last signs alone are enough to convince the surgeon of the necessity of the operation ; but they do not clearly show, whether the intes- tine descends as far as it ought, in order to form a proper kind of anus. Complete information on this point, can only be acquired after the mem- brane or adhesion has been divided ; or else after the child’s death, when the operation has proved ineffectual. Though there be no mark to denote where the anus ought to be situated, and no de- gree of prominence, yielding, like soft dough, to the pressure of the fingers, and rising again when such pressure is removed; yet it may happen, especially on our being consulted immediately after the child is born, that, notwithstanding the absence of such symptoms, denoting the presence of the meconium, and the natural extent ol the intestine, as far as where the anus ought to be, the gut may exist, and have a cavity, as far as the membrane, or adhesion, closing it. When the anus is simply covered with skin, and its place pointed out by a prominence, arising from the contents of the rectum, we have only to make an opening with a knife, sufficient to let out the meconium. Levret recommends making a circular incision in the membrane; but n trans- verse cut is sufficient. . A small tent of lint is afterwards to be introduced, in order to keep the opening from closing. If the anus should only be partly closed by a membrane, the opening mny be dilated with a tent; but, if the aperture should be very small, it is preferable to use the bistoury fof its enlargement. When no external appearance denotes where the situation of the anus ought to be, the case is much more serious and embarrassing; and this, whether the intestine is stopped up by a fleshy adhesion, or the coalescence of its sides, or whe- ther a part of the gut is wanting. However,' it is the surgeon’s duty to do every thing in his power to aflord relief. For this pur- pose an incision, an inch long, is to be made in the situation where the anus ought to be, and the wound is to be carried more and more deeply in the natural direction of the rectum. The cuts are not to be made directly upwards, nor in the axis of the pelvis, for the vagina, or bladder, might thus be w'ounded. On the contrary, the operator should cut backward, along the con- cavity of the os coecygis, wdiere there is no dan- ger of wounding any- part of importance. In all cases of this kind, the surgeon’s finger is the best director. The operator, guided by the index finger of his left hand, introduced within the os coccygis, is to dissect in the direction above recommended, until he reaches the feces, or has cut as far as he can reach with his finger. If he should fail in finding the meconium, as death must unavoidably'follow, one more attempt ought to be made, by introducing, upon the finger, a long trocar, in such a direction as seems best calculated for finding the rectum. By the prudent adoption of such proceedings, many infants have been preserved, which would otherwise have been devoted to certain death. Hildanus, La Motte, Roonhuysen, and several others, have successfully adopted the above prac- tice. Mr. B. Bell informs us, that he saw two of these cases, in w'hieh the intestine was very distant from the integuments, and in which he was so successful, as to form an anus, which ful- filled its office tolerably wrell for several years ; but he found it exceeding difficult to keep the passage sufficiently large and pervious. As soon as he removed the dossils of lint, and other kinds of tents, used for maintaining the necessary' di- latation, such a degree of contraction speedily followed, that the evacuation of the intestinal matter became very' difficult, for a long while afterwards. He employed, at different times, tents made of sponge, gentian root, and other substances, which swell on being moistened. But these alway'S produced so much pain and irrita- tion, that it was impossible to persevere in their use. After remarking such inconveniences, he condemns the use of tents. He is of opinion, that whoever makes trial of them upon parts, as sensible as the rectum, will soon find, that the advice to use them is wwong. Tents, made of very soft lint, dipped in oil, or rolls of bougie plaster, cause less irritation than those composed of any other materials. Though keeping the opening dilated may seem simple and easy, to such men as have had no opportunities of seeing cases of this description, it is far otherwise in practice. Mr. B. Beil assures us, that he never met with any disease, which gave him so much trouble and embarrass- ment, ns he experienced in the twm cases of this sort, which occurred in his practice. Although in both instances, he at first made the openings sufficiently large, it was only by very assiduous attention, for eight or ten months, that the ne- cessity for another operation, and even repeated