HEM HER 597 morrhoidal Excrescence, p. I—3, 8uo. Lond. severe Forms of Hcemorrhoidal Excrescence, 1817.) Qvo. Lond. 1817. Abcrncthy on Hemorrhoidal I believe, on the whole, that it is best to re- Diseases, in his Surgical Works, Vol. 2,p. 231, move hemorrhoids with a knife, unless they are §c. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. 1, p. S31, Ed. situated high up the rectum, where the veins are 1809. Levei/le, Nouvelle Doctrine Chir. T. 3, of laro-e size, and likely to bleed profusely. If p- lb'4. Richter Von der Blinden Guldntn Ader a tumor so situated should absolutely require in Anfangsgr. der Wundarzncykunst, B. 6‘, removal, which can rarely happen, a ligature p. 395, Ed. 1802. W. Hey, Pract. Obs. in might be put round its base with the aid of a Surgery, p. 439, 4"C. Ed. 2, 8 no. Lond. 1810. double cannula, as is sometimes done in cases of Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 20, p. 441, fyc. 8vo. uterine Polypi. When the base of the tumor, Paris, 1817. Montcgre, Des Hemorrhoidcs, however, is large, admits of being brought into on Traite Analytiquc dc toutes les Affections view, and the surgeon prefers tying it, he should 7/emorrhoidales, Nouvelle Edit. Pa'is, 1819. pass a needle, armed with a strong double liga- HE^RNIA. (from j^vor, a branch, from its ture, through the root of the hemorrhoid, and protruding forward.) Surgeons understand by, tie one part of this ligature firmly over one side the term hernia, a tumor, formed by the pro- of the swelling, and the other over the opposite trusion of some of the viscera of the abdomen, side. W'hen the base of the tumor is narrow, out of that cavity, into a kind of sac, composed and the ligature is preferred, the part may be of the portion ot peritoneum, which is pushed .tied at once, without passing a double ligature before them. However, there are certainly cases through its middle. which will not be comprehended in this definition ; Old hemorrhoids, which have been repeatedly either because the parts are not protruded at all, in a state of inflammation, at length acquire a or have no hernial sac, as the reader will learn considerable degree of hardness. The internal in the course of this article, membrane of the rectum becomes thickened, loses “The brilliant progress, which surgery has its natural softness, and forms a kind of cyst, made in modern times (says Scarpa) is, properly which prevents the tumor from bursting and speaking, only the result of pathological anatomy, bleeding. (See Thcdcn, Progres de la Chi- that is to say, of exact comparisons of the natural rurgie. Sect. 4, p. 73.) In the end, it ulcerates, state of our organs with their different diseases, and pours out a fetid discharge. Its size can- which may depend upon an alteration of texture, not now be lessened by the use of emollient a derangement of functions, a solution of con- applications; and its excision is indispensably tinuity, or a change of situation. Itisfrommor- necessary. (See Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. 1, bid anatomy, that the most rational curative p. 336.) methods, with which modern surgery is enriched. An opinion has commonly prevailed, that the are deduced as so many corollaries ; methods, to bleeding from piles is of a salutary, or critical which we are also indebted for the perfection of nature ; an evacuation, by which some peccant, operations. or morbid matter, is thrown off from the body. “ There are indeed a certain number of surgical Hence, many patients have been advised to submit operations, for the prompt and safe execution of to all the pain, and uneasiness, which the disease which, mere anatomical knowledge will suffice ; occasions, rather than seek a cure. If the fact but, in many others, the surgeon cannot promise that some patients lose their health after their himself success, even though he be well ac- piles have been cured, be received as sufficient quainted with anatomy, unless he has particularly proof of the disease having had a salutary effect, studied the numerous changes of position, and the doctrine must remain fully established. But, alterations of texture, of which the parts, upon before this inference should be drawn, it ought which he is about to operate, are susceptible. If to be known, whether the frequency of the fact he has not the requisite information upon all is such as to warrant the conclusion ; for, it is these points, false appearances may deceive his not to be supposed, that the removal of piles judgment, and make him commit mistakes, some- places the patient altogether beyond the reach of times of a very serious and irreparable kind, disease and illness; and net one will deny, that “ In order to have a convincing proof of this such operation frequently leads to improvement truth, it will be sufficient to take a view of the of the health. Were a patient to appear to suffer different species of hernire, and their-numerous from the cessation of an habitual bleeding from complications. Assuredly, no anatomist would ' piles, fomentations and leeches should be ap- believe, that the intestine ccecum, naturally fixed plied. in the right ileum, and the urinary bladder, situ- Consult I'Encyclopedic Mcthodiquc; Partic ated at the bottom of the pelvis, could undergo, Chir. Petit, (Euvres Posthumes, T. 2. Calliscn, without being torn, so considerable a displace- Systerna Chirurgicc IJodiemce, T. 2, p. 105, ment as to protrude through the abdominal ring, Ed. 1800. Sabatier, Dc la Mddecine Op Da- and descend even into the scrotum; that the toire, T. 2. Latta’s System of Surgery, Vol. same intestine the coecum could pass from the 2. Ware on the Treatment of Hemorrhoids, right iliac region to the umbilicus, protrude at Trnka de Krzowitz, Ilistoria Hemorrhoidum. this opening, and form an umbilical hernia ; that 3 Vol. Svo. Vindob. 1794—1795. Sir J. Earle, the right colon could have been found protruded Obs. on Hcernorrhoidal Excrescences, 2d Ed. from the abdomen at the left abdominal ring, and 3co. Lond. 1807. T. Copeland, Obs. on the the left colon through the right one ; that the Principal Diseases of the Rectum and Anus, 8vo. liver, spleen, and ovary could sometimes form Land. 1814. Schregcr, Chirurgischc Vcrsii- the contents of umbilical, inguinal, and femoral che, 11. l, p. 253, fyc. Ueber tubiiculosc Excrcs- hernia;; that the coecum could engage itself crn;: des Aslcrdarms, 8vo. Niirnbcrg, 1811. within the colon, and even protrude at the anus; John Kirby, Obs. on the Treatment of certain that the stomach could be forced through the