HERNIA. 647 matter is not venereal. Tlie swelling and in- flammation appear suddenly, and as suddenly disappear, or go from one testicle to the other. The epididymis remains swelled, however, even for a considerable time afterwards. The first appearance of swelling is generally a soft pulpy fulness of the body of the testicle, which is tender to the touch ; this increases to a bard swelling, accompanied with considerable pain. The epididymis, towards the lower end of the testicle, is generally the hardest part. The hardness and swelling, however, often pervade the whole of the epididymis. The spermatic chord, and especially the vas deferens, are often thickened and sore to the touch. The spermatic veins sometimes become varicose. A pain in the loins, and sense of weakness there, and, in the pelvis, are other casual symptoms. Cholicky pains; uneasiness in the stomach and bowels; flatulence; sickness; and even vomiting; are not unfrequent. The whole testicle is swelled, and not merely the epididymis, as has been as- serted. The inflammation of the part most probably arises from its sympathizing with the urethra. The swelling of the testicle coming on either removes the pain in making water, and suspends the discharge, which do not return, till such swelling begins to subside; or else the irritation in the urethra, first ceasing, produces a swelling of the testicle, which continues till the pain and discharge return; thus rendering it doubtful, which is the cause, and which the effect. Occa- sionally, however, the discharge has become more violent, though the testicle has swelled ; and such swelling has even been known to occur after the discharge has ceased; yet, the latter has returned with violence, and remained as long as the hernia humoralis. (J. Hunter.) Irritation at the mouth of the vasa deferentia has been mentioned as a cause; but, were this true, both testicles would usually be affected at the same time, and the complaint would occur more frequently, when the irritation of the ure- thra extends far towards the bladder, than when it only reaches about an inch and a half, or two, inches, from the orifice of the passage. Hernia humoralis, with.stoppage of the dis- charge, is apt to be attended with strangury. It is singular, that the inflammation should more frequently come on when the irritation in the urethra is going off, than when it is at its height. The enlargements of the testicle, from cancer and scrophula, are generally slow in their pro- gress; that of a hernia humoralis very quick. (J. Hunter.) Rest is the best remedy, and the horizontal position of the body is easiest. At all events, the testicle must be well suspended; to which expedient the patient will readily have recourse as soon as he knows the ease which it affords. , Case is treated as inflammation in general, by bleeding and purging, and applying fomen- tations and poultices. In the hernia humoralis rom gonorrhcea, however, cold applications are sometirneSrpreferred. (James on Inflammation, r* •) Leeches have often proved serviceable, e swelling not being venereal, mercury is UoCful 'n. removing the induration, after - inflammation has subsided. Vomits have been recommended, and found beneficial. They uve even been known to cure the complaint in a surprisingly sudden manner. Opiates are useful. When suppuration occurs, no mercury is requisite, only common treatment. As the hernia humoralis often appears to depend on the cessation of the discharge, some (Brumfield) have advised irritating the urethra with bougies to bring on the gonnorrhoea again; but the practice is not followed by the expected good. The introduction of venereal matter into the urethra has also been most absurdly sug- gested. A hernia humoralis is at first very quick in subsiding; but, some of the swelling remains a long while, and the hardness of the epididymis may even continue for years, nay, for life. However, no inconvenience attends the mere induration. In such instances, the vas deferens may occasionally be rendered impervious, though the occurrence must be by no means frequent. Frictions with camphorated mercurial oint- ment ; fumigations with aromatic herbs; and electricity; are the best means for dispersing the induration in question. (J. Hunter.) The signs, distinguishing a hernia humoralis from a scrotal rupture, are explained in the arti- cle Hernia. I once had under my care a patient with her- nia humoralis, whose symptoms were severe in an extraordinary degree, and strongly resembled those of a strangulated hernia, being attended with much sickness, and obstinate constipation. A swelling of the testis, accompanied with all the symptoms of strangulated hernia, is recorded by , Guincourt. (See Journ. dc Med. par Cor- visart, T. 16.) Although I had never seen hernia humoralis attended with symptoms so much resembling those of a strangulated rupture, as in the case, which fell under my own notice, and the patient would not own that he had had any gonorrhoea, yet I remarked some circumstances, which made me avoid an erroneous judgment. In the first place, I could discover no protrusion from the abdomi- nal ring. Secondly; I observed, that there was no tension, nor swelling of the belly, as in com- mon cases of strangulated ruptures. Thirdly, I remarked, that the inflammation of the scrotum did not increase as the symptoms advanced, as it usually does in the latter disease. Fourthly ; I took notice, that the pain in the belly was most severe under the false ribs on the right side, though at periods it was certainly very diffused ; but it was never augmented by pressure, as always happens in strangulated hernia, perito- nitis, enteritis, Sec. from all which disorders, too, the absence of tension seemed to distinguish it. Sometimes likewise the pain was entirely in the tumor; sometimes altogether in the abdomen. HERPES, (from ignui, to creep.) Nothing could be more confused, and un- defined, than the idea conveyed by the term herpes, as generally employed by medical men before the last few years. In fact, numerous cutaneous diseases, of the most opposite kinds, but which had a tendency to creep, or spread slowly, were designated, as specimens of herpes. Thus, when I first entered the profession, it was common for some of the most eminent surgeons in London frequently to call noli me tangere, or lupus, herpes of tl*e nose; and to apply the same term to tinea capitis, or the porrigo favosa. Happily, this vague mode of regarding dis-