1 I GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 53!I he limb must inevitably mortify. Mr. Guthrie ilso savs, “a cannon shot destroying the artery md vein’ on the inside (of the thigh) without muring the bone, requires amputation.” (T. S5.) °Wben, however, the femoral artery, or ■ein is injured by a musket ball, or small can- ister shot, this gentleman recommends tying he vessel above and below the wound in it, if ■ie nature of the case be evinced by hemorrhage. »ut, he believes, that when both vein and artery .,e injured, amputation is necessary, (F. 186.) \ ith respect to bleeding from the femoral vein, s it may easily be stopped by moderate-pressure, :ie propriety of using any ligature at all is jestionable. •< An injury of the femoral artery (observes Ir. Guthrie,) requiring an operation, accom- r.tnied with fracture of the bone of the most ample kind, is a proper case for immediate am- ltation, for, although many patients would cover from either accident alone, none would, believe, surmount the two united, and the gher the accident is in the thigh, the more iperious is the necessity for amputation.”— i at In le on Gunshot Wounds, p. 187.) Fourth disc. A grape-shot strikes the thick rt of a member, breaks the bone, divides and ars the muscles and destroys the large nerves, thout, however, touching the main artery, icording to Larrey, this is a fourth case, re- iring immediate amputation. Mr. Guthrie seems to coincide on this point :h Larrey: “ If a cannon shot strike the ;k part of the thigh, and carry away the mus- 'Jar part behind, and with it the great sciatic eve, amputation is necessary, even if the bone untouched, <S:c. In this case,- I would not rform the operation by the circular incision, : would preserve a flap from the fore part, or es, as I could get it, to cover the bone, which ruld be short.” (Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds the Extremities, p. 184.) Fifth rase. If a spent cannon-shot, or one .t has been reflected, should strike a member iquely, without producing a solution of con- uity in the skin, as often happens, the parts, icli resist its action, such as the bones, mus- s, tendons, aponeuroses, and vessels, may be itured and lacerated. The extent of the in ■ nal disorder is to be examined; and if the ics should feel, through the soft parts, as if y were smashed, and if there should be reason suspect, from the swelling, and a sort of •tuation, that the vessels are lacerated, ampu - on ought to be immediately practised. We •n from Larrey, that this is also the advice of •on Percy. Sometimes, however, the vessels bones have escaped injury, and the muscles almost the only parts disordered. In this umstance, we are enjoined to follow the coun- of De La Martiniere, who recommended ting an incision through the skin. I3y this ms, a quantity of thick blackish blood will discharged, and the practitioner must await nts. According to Larrey, such incision is ally necessary in the preceding case, before mtation, in order to ascertain the extent of mischief, which the parts have sustained, t is to such injury, done to internal organs, t we must ascribe the death of many indivi- 1s, which was for a long while attributed to the commotion produced in the air. (See Rava- ton, Truitr dts Pities d’Aimes a Feu.) Although, says Larrey, this opinion has been sanctioned by surgeons of high repute, we may easily convince ourselves of its falsity, if we care- fully consider, 1st, the direction and course of solid hard bodies, and their relation to the air, through which they have to pass; Vdlv, the internal disorder, observable in the dead bodies of persons, whose death is imputed to the mere impression of the air, agitated by the ball; 3dly, the properties of the elastic substances, such as the integuments, cellular substance, &c. struck by the shot. It is universally agreed amongst philosophers, that a solid body, moving in a fluid, only acts upon a column of this fluid, the base of which column is nearly equal to the surface, which the solid body presents. (See Le Vudher sur quel- quts pitrliculurile.t cancernant les pldyesfuites par armes a feu, in Mem. de l'Acad, de Chirurgie, T. 11, p. 34, Ed. 1 ‘2mo.) Thus a cannon-ball, in traversing a space equal to its diameter, can only displace a portion of air, in the relation of 3 to 2, compared with the size of the shot. This fluid, in consequence of its divisibility and homogenealness with the am- bient air, is dispersed in all directions, and con- founded with the total mass of the atmosphere. The effects of this aeriform substance amount to nothing, and not a doubt can be entertained, that if there is the slightest solution of conti- nuity of any part of the body, it must depend upon the direct action of the ball itself. If, besides, the quickness of the motion of a ball be considered, which quickness is known ter" diminish in an inverse ratio to the squares of the distance, - it will be seen, that the space, through which the shot has passed, before stri- king the object, against which it was directed, will already have materially lessened the celerity of the projectile, while the motion of the column of air must be totally lost. The different movements, which the ball de- scribes in its course, and the elasticity of the skin, enable us to explain, how internal injuries are produced, without any external solution of continuity, and often even without eeehymosis. The motion communicated to the ball by the power, which projects it, is, for a given space, rectilinear. If, at this instance, it strikes against the body, it carries the part away to an extent proportioned to the mass, with which it touches the part. But, the ball, after having traversed a certain distance, undergoes, in consequence of the resistance of the air, and the attraction of gravity, a change of motion, and now turns on its own axis, in the diagonal direction. If the shot should strike any rounded part of the body, towards the end of its course, it will run round a great portion of the circumference of the part, by the effect of its curvilinear move- ment. It is also in this manner, observes Larrey, that the wheel of a carriage acts, in pass- ing obliquely over the thigh, or leg, of an indi- vidual stretched upon the ground. In this case, the results are the same as those of which wc have been speaking. The most elastic parts yield to the impulse of the contusing body while such as offer resistance, as, for instance, the bones, tendons, muscles, and aponeuroses',-