!212 BANDAGE. care, first, that the turns, or as the French call them, dolaires, of the roller lie over one another by just one third of the breadth of the bandage; and, secondly, that at every difficult part, as over a joint, you turn the roller in your hand, make an angle, and lay the roller upon the limb, with the opposite flat side towards it; you must turn the bandage so as to reverse it, making, what the French call, a renversde of the roller at the ankle, at the calf of the leg, and at the knee. You must be careful to roll your bandage from below upwards, and support the whole limb by a general pressure. That you may be able to sup- port the diseased part with a particular pressure, you must lay compresses upon the hollows and upon the bed of each particular abscess, and change the place of these compresses from time to time, so as now to prevent matter sinking into a particular hollow, now to press it out from a place where it is already lodged, and again to reunite the surface of an abscess already completely formed, from which the matter has been discharged.” ( Principles of Surgery, Vo 1.1.) In the article Joints, we have taken notice of the good effects of the pressure of the roller in the cure of some diseases of the knee. Here we shall just introduce Mr John Bell’s sentiments upon the subject: “ In a diseased bursa, as in a relaxation of the knee-joint, that disease, which, with but a little indulgence, a very little encou- ragement of fomentations, poultices, bleeding, and low diet, would end in white-swelling of the knee, may be stopped even by so simple a mat- ter as a well-rolled bandage.” (Vol. 1, p. 127.) The uniting bandage., or spica descendens, used in rectilinear wounds, consists of a double- headed roller, with a longitudinal slit in the middle, of three or four inches long. The roller, having one head passed through the slit, enables the surgeon to draw the lips of the wound toge- ther. The whole must be managed, so that the bandage may act equally. When the wounds are stitched, this bandage supports the stitches, and prevents their tearing through the skin. When the wound is deep, writers advise a com- press to be applied on each side, in order to press the deeper part of its sides together. When the wound is very long, two or three bandages should be employed, and great care must be taken, that the pressure is perfectly equable. Henkel and Bichter recommend an uniting bandage, which allows the surgeon to see the wound, over which only narrow tapes cross. The reader, if he should ever wish to employ this contrivance, may read a description of it in Rees’s Cyclopaedia, or Motherby’s Medical Dic- tionary ; though I confess I could not understand it from the description in those works, until I looked at the plate in Richter’s Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. Band 1. When we make use of a single-headed roller, as a retentive hand nee only, we should always remember to begin the application of it on the side opposite the wound. The obvious reason for so doing is to prevent a farther separation of the lips of the wound, as the contrary manner of applying the roller would tend directly to divide them. (Gooch, Vol. 1,;;. 143.) The intention of the expdlent bandage is to keep the discharge sufficiently near the orifice of the wound to prevent the formation of sinuses. In general, a compress of unequal thickness is necessary; the thinner part of the compress being placed next, and immediately contiguous to, the orifice of the wound; the thicker part below. Before the bandage is applied, the pus must be completely pressed out, and the roiling begin with two, or three, circular turns on the lower part of the compress. The bandage must then be carried spirally upwards, but not quite so tightly, as below. It is afterwards to be rolled downward to the place, where it began. The creeping is a simple bandage, every suc- ceeding turn of which only just covers the edge of the preceding one. It is employed in cases, in which the object is merely to secure the dress- ings, and not to make any considerable, or equable pressure. A bandage is termed compound, when several pieces of linen, cotton, or flannel, are sewed together in different directions, or when the bandage is torn or cut, so as to have several tails. Such are the T bandage, the suspensory, the capistrum, &c. The eighteen-tailed bandage is one of the most compound. It is now in general use for all fractures of the leg and thigh, sometimes for those of the forearm, and, frequently, for parti- cular wounds. Its great recommendations are the facility with which it can be undone, so as to allow the parts to be examined, and its not creating, on such an occasion, the smallest dis- turbance of the disease, or accident. The eighteen-tailed bandage is made by a longitudinal portion of a common roller, and by a sufficient number of transverse pieces, or tails, to cover as much of the part as is requisite. Each of the cross pieces is to be proportioned in length to the circumference of the part of the limb, to which it is to be applied; so that in making this sort of bandage for the leg, or thigh, the upper tails will be twice as long as the lower ones. After laying the long part of the bandage on a table, fix the upper end of it in some way, or another. Then begin laying the upper tails across it, and proceed with placing the rest. Each tail must be long enough to extend about two inches beyond the opposite one, when they are both applied. The tails, being all arranged across the longitudinal band, they are to be stitched in this position with a needle and thread. When the bandage is intended for the leg, a piece of the longitudinal part of the roller below, is to extend beyond the tails. This is usually brought under the sole of the foot, and then ap- plied over the inner ankle in the first instance, after the bandage has been put under the limb. Then the surgeon lays down the first of the lower tails, and covers it with the next one above. In this way, he proceeds upward, till all the cross pieces are applied, the uppermost one of which he fastens with a pin. 1 his bandage has a very neat appearance. The tails are said to lie better, when placed across the longitudinal piece a little obliquely. (Pott ) The P bandage is, for the most part, used far covering parts of the abdomen and back, and especially, the scrotum, perinacum, and parts about the anus. Its name is derived from its resem- blance to the letter T, and it is, as Mr. John Bell