AMPUTATION. 59 sawn as near as possible to the healthy flesh, which remains adherent. He states that, when this plan is pursued, the skin around the wound will nr soloes, that it can almost be made to cover the extremity of the hone. It is to be lamented, that this advice, inculcated by Celsus, should not have been comprehended, or that it should have been so neglected, as to stand in need, as it were, of a new discoverer, and that a suggestion of such importance should have remained so long useless. But, the fact is, hemorrhage formerly rendered amputation so dangerous, that the an- cient surgeons could not devote much attention to any thing else in the operation, and practition- ers amputated so seldom, that we read in Al- bucasis, that he positively refused to cut off a person’s hand, lest a fatal hemorrhage should en- sue, and the patient did it himself and recovered. Over that part of the stump, which the small quan- titv of preserved skin would not cover, Celsus recommended compresses, and a sponge dipped in vinegar to be laid. (Be lie Medicu, Lib. 7. c. S3.) Archigenes, who was born at Apamia, in Syria, was the discip'e of Agathinus, and physi- cian to Philip, hing of that country. He re- paired to Rome, where he practised physic and surgery, in the reign of the emperor Trajan, about 108 years after the birth of Christ. (Portal, H'c. dr I'A 'utomie it de la Chivurgie, Vol. 1, p. 61.) In the bistort of amputation, the name of Archigenes is conspicuous, not only because he is supposed to have been acquainted with the use of the needle and ligature for the stoppage of bl- ed- ing, but because his description of the opera- tion is in some respects more minute than that of Celsus. For the hinderance of loss of blood in the operation, says Sprengel, (Ge.schichte der Chit. B. 1, p. 404, Hail. , 1805,) he first of all tied up the vessels, and often the whole limb, over which he also sprinkled cold water. The integuments were then drawn upwards from the wound, and confined there with a band; and, after the limb was off, he cauterized the stump, anil applied folded compresses. The band was now loosened, and a mixture of leeks and salt laid on the stump, to which were also applied oil and cerate. (Nice/. Cell. Chu. p. 155.) Such was likewise the practice of Heliodorus, who thus early made objections to the plan of cutting off a limb by a single stroke, a proposal that was renewed in far later days. The same author has also spoken of amputating at the joints; a method, of which he disapproves. (Nice1. Coil. Chir. i1. 155.) However, Galen entertained a favourable opinion of it, on account of its safety and expedition. (Cmm, 4, in lib. de ante, p, 650.) Galen’s precepts concerning amputation are, upon the whole, very like those given by Hip- pocrates ; for lie directs only dead parts to be cut, and the stump to be cauterized. (Dr Arte CurnttV'i ad Gl- ucontm, lib. 2.) By all the old writers, amputation was entirely restricted to cases of mortification; further they were afraid to go; and this precept, and all the other doctrines of Galen, may he said to have been the guide of the whole surgical profession for full fourteen centuries. rhe timid Arabians were not partial to ampu- tation, and even in cases of mortification, gene- rally preferred a farrago of useless applications, like Armenian bole, &c. Paulus /Egincta, like Galen, deviated from Cclsus’s good rule of making the incisions in the healthy parts, and only approved of making the requisite division near them. (Lib. 4, r. 19, p. 140.) Avicenna, however, repeated the directions left by the Greek writers, (Can. lib. 4. Ftv. 3, tr. I, p. 454.) and Abu’l Kasem proposed doing the operation with a red-hot knife. (Chirurg. lib. 1. Sect. 52, p. 99.) In the middle ages, little was done for the improvement of amputation. In the 14th century, gunpowder was invented, and soon applied to the purposes of war, so that an abun- dance of cases must have presented themselves, in which the wise maxim of not deferring ampu- tation, until mortification had come on, but of preventing the mischief by the operation, ought to have struck an intelligent surgeon. One might also expect that practitioners would now have been led to make the incisions in the sound flesh. Unfortunately, the invention of gunpowder, and its immediate consequences in surgery, hap- pened at a period when practitioners were ill qualified to profit by the new lessons of experience set before them. The writings of their predeces- sors furnished them with no directions how they ought to act, and they were themselves too much confounded at the sight of the mischief, for which they were consulted, to be able to form any cor- rect opinion about causes and effects. Their first idea was, that the terrible symptoms proceeded from the parts being actually burned, and they afterwards inclined to the belief, that gun-shot wounds were poisoned. Hence, the most absurd modes of treatment were instituted, and as Briin- ninghausen expresses himself, human nature groaned under a new evil, for which there were for some time no true plans of relief. (Eijahr. Sfc. iiher die Amp. c. 19.) This deplorable state was the natural result of the depression of science in general, and of the healing art in particular, in the days to which I now refer. In these middle ages, as they are called, the population of all Europe was plunged in the deepest ignorance ; and whatever little knowledge remained, either of the arts, or languages, was monopolized by the priesthood, the physicians of those times, who, instead of studying the volume of nature, wasted most of their time in discussing the doctrines of Galen. Surgery itself sunk to the lowest ebb, as may be well conceived from the decrees issued at Rheims, by pope Boniface the eighth, for- bidding any of the clergy to do any thing themselves, which drew blood, and, of course, all the operative part of surgery, that which required most skill and science, was transferred to a set of illiterate, low-bred mechanics, far inferior to the worst country-farriers of modern times. Yet, the clergy, who were here scrupulously averse to soiling their own hands with blood, or hurting their own tender feelings by viewing the agony of their fellow-creatures submitted to operations, bad no hesitation in taking the chief emoluments and honors of the profession, or in turning over these poor sufferers to men more qualified to torture and murder, than give relief; and, what nearly staggers all credulity, the sotne professors of Christianity, who shuddered to spill a drop of blood themselves, on a proper occasion, as Haller observes, eagerly had a hand, and acted an important part in every sanguinary war, where