25 AMAUROSIS. th'*rig, it is only an empirical mode of treatment, bv which mean’s every chance of benefit is anni- hilated, while an active and intelligent surgeon nijjrht perhaps preserve vision, and bring it to perfection again. When there is a probability of relieving amau- rosis, the cure is mostly tedious, and beset with many difficulties, though the blindness has origi- nated and formed suddenly, the utmost atten- tion, and the greatest practical skill, being re- quisite on the part of the surgeon. Hence, as Beer observes, even in favourable cases, either the patient himself, the surgeon, or both of them, lose all inclination to persevere in the treatment, and the unfortunate victim is either left to his fate, or consigned to impudent, mercenary quacks. In amaurosis, the difficulty of cure is naturally in proportion to the variety and number of causes of the complaint; and the more readily the sur- geon makes himself acquainted with them, and the more certainly he obviates them, the more surely and quickly does the cure follow. It may be considered as generally true, that every amaurotic weakness of sight, and every completely formed amaurosis, are attended with the greatest probability of cure, where they began suddenly, and were quickly developed ; for ex- perience proves, that, in these cases, the whole of the causes of the disease are much more fre- quently and earlier comprehended than when the complaint has been several years in forming.— (Beer, Lehre von den Augenkr. b. 2. p. 454—56.) This observation perfectly coincides with the ac- count given by Schmucker, who says, that many of these suddenly formed cases have fallen under his notice, and been more easy of cure, than when the disorder had come on in a more gradual way. (See Vermischts dm. Schrjten, b. 2.) A case may happen, nay, it happens not un- frequently, says professor Beer (which, consider- ing the imperfect etiology of amaurosis, cannot be wondered at), that the surgeon, after the most careful investigation, can absolutely detect no particular cause of the existing amaurotic blind- ness, in which event, the prognosis must in every respect be very uncertain and unfavourable, since only empirical treatment can be tried, which rarely answers; and, even when a cure in this manner does follow, it is frequently quite accidental. As will be seen in the account of each particu- lar species of amaurosis, the affected eye is some- times so conditioned, that the complete incura- bility, sooner or later, may be prognosticated with entire certainty, and this even though a degree erf vision may now be enjoyed. I here are amaurotic patients, in whom every treatment does harm, the disease making unin- terrupted advances to perpetual blindness. This observation especially refers to local remedies, of the danger of which, under certain circumstances, the patient should be carefully warned. hi general, the more complete the amaurosis is, and the longer the patient has been deprived not only of vision, but of all sensibility to light, the less hope is there of sight being ever re- established. W hen one eye has been completely bereft of *'ght by amaurosis, and the surgeon can find out 'ttlc or no cause for the infirmity, there is strong renstni lor apprehending that the other eye will 1Mllcr later become blind. This is a fact amply proved by experience, and the exceptions are very rare. According to Beer, the idea entertained by some writers is not built upon experience, that amaurotic patients, in whom the iris is still move- able, and the pupil not very much dilated, are more easily and frequently cured than others in whom the iris is perfectly motionless, and the pupil exceedingly dilated. For sometimes, during the treatment, or even spontaneously, the iris, after being quite immoveable, recovers its power of motion, yet the patient may not, at the same time, regain the slightest degree of vision ; and, on the other hand, many cases of perfect amau- rosis are cured, without the iris recovering any of its mobility, and the pupil remains dilated during the remainder of the patient’s life. (Lehre von dtn Avgenkr. b. 2. p. 458.) Richter also thinks, that the moveable or immoveable state of the pupil can neither be considered as a favour- able nor unfavourable circumstance. Sometimes, says he, an amaurosis may be cured, which is attended with a pupil extraordinarily dilated, and entirely motionless ; and sometimes the disorder proves incurable, notwithstanding the pupil be of its proper size, and capable of motion. There are likewise examples, in which the pupil reco- vers its moveableness, in the course of the treat- ment, although nothing will succeed in restoring the eyesight. (Anftngsgr. der Wundurzv. b. 3. p. 424. 8vo. Gov. 1795.) In some very rare instances, says Beer, amau- rotic blindness has been cured by some apparently accidental, or indeed morbid effect, without any assistance from art; by hemorrhage from the nose, an intermittent fever, a blow on the head, &c. The same experienced writer operated suc- cessfully upon both eyes of a patient with cata- racts, which had been previously depressed too far against the retina, so that their pressure gave rise to amaurosis, which, after continuing eight years, was suddenly removed by the patient’s ac- cidentally falling out of bed, and pitching upon the .top of his head. (Lehre von dtn Augenkr. b. 2. p. 458.) The following observations, made by professor Beer, respecting the prognosis, cannot fail to prove interesting. There is a species of amau- rosis, which gradually diminishes of itself; for instance, that which arises from hard drinking, or the effect of narcotic poisons, belladonna, opium, hyoscyamus, &c. Sometimes imperfect amaurosis goes away, without any assistance from art, in consequence of the accession of some other disease, as an eruption, a discharge of matter from the ear, bleeding from piles, the menses, &c. Also, in most cases, when the surgeon is so fortunate as to cure amaurosis, either by scientific or empirical methods, there still continues, for life, a. considerable degree of amblyopia, more especially if the amaurosis has been complete. Sometimes, by successful treatment, vision is in a great measure, or even entirely, restored in one eye; yet the o'ther remains completely blind; or one eye sees again much sooner than its fellow, although they were both affected together with an equul degree of blindness. It often happens that, though a material de- gree of vision returns in the course of the treat- ment, the faculty is restricted to a circumscribed