out cutting the sac, but lie found it impracticable. If the stricture is so tight, as to prevent the in- troduction of the finger, there must be great danger of'wounding the protruded parts. The practice would still be not advisable, even if it could be rendered as easy as the common method of operating. Mr. C. leaves ail inch of the sac, below the ring, undivided; thus a bag remains readv to receive any future protrusion, and the chance of a radical cure is diminished. It would be better to follow the advice of Richter, and scarify the neck of the sac, in order to promote an adhesion of its sides. He has found this practice so successful in accomplishing a radical cure, that lie advises (p. 191.) its employment in every operation for strangulated hernia.” (See Lawrence on Ruptures, p. 321, Edit. 3.) If the stricture should be at the inner opening of the canal for the spermatic cord, Mr. A. Cooper advises the operator to introduce his finger into the sac, as far as the stricture, and then to insinuate a probe-pointed bistoury, with the Hat part of its blade turned towards the fin- ger. between the front of the sac and the abdo- minal ring, till it arrives under the stricture, formed by the lower edge of the transversalis and obliquus "interims. Then the edge of the instru- ment is to be turned forward, and the stricture cut in the direction upward. This plan of not cutting the neck of the sac, is liable to all the objections stated by Mr. Lawrence, in regard to the case, in which the strangulation takes place at the abdominal ring. Mr. A. Cooper’s bistoury is a very proper one for dividing the stricture, as it only has a cutting edge to a certain distance from the point. Perhaps, on the whole, we may infer, that it is both most easy and advantageous to divide the neck of the sac, together with the stricture, whether this be situated at the ring, or more inward. The method of cutting the stric- ture from without inwards I consider objection- able, on the ground of the risk of wounding the bowels in this mode, being greater, than that of any accident from wounding the epigastric ar- tery, when it arises in an unusual manner, and deviates from its regular course; a reflection, which has made Dr. Hesselbach, junior, an ad- vocate for the practice. (See Sichcrsle Art. tics Bruchschnittes, 4to. Banibcrgi 1819.) Room being made for the reduction of the protruded parts into the abdomen, by the divi- sion of the stricture, they are to be immediately returned, if sound, and free from adhesions. • This object is considerably facilitated by bending the thigh. The intestines are to be reduced be- fore the omentum, but, when a portion of mesen- tery is protruded, it is to be returned before either of the preceding parts. The intestine should always be reduced, unless it be found in a state of actual mortification. It often appears so altered in colour, that an uninformed person would deem it improper to return it into the ab- domen. However, if such alteration should not amount to a real mortification, experience justi- fies the reduction of the part. Mr. A. Cooper has judiciously cautioned the operator not to mistake the dark chocolate-brown discolorations, for a state of gangrene. With these the pro- truded part is frequently found affected ; and, as they generally produce no permanent mischief, [I A. 619 they ought to be carefully discriminated from the black-purple, or lead-coloured spots, which usu- ally precede mortification. To determine whe- ther a discoloured portion of intestine be posi- tively mortified, some recommend pressing for- ward the blood contained in the veins, and, if they fill'again, it is looked upon as a proof, that the bowel is still possessed of life. In returning a piece of intestine into the ab- domen, the surgeon should first introduce the part, nearest the ring, into this aperture, and hold it there till another portion has succeeded it. This method is to be continued, till the whole of the protruded bowel is reduced. Writers on surgery cannot too severely re- probate the employment of any force, or violence, in the endeavours to return the contents of a her- nia in the operation : a method the more perni- cious, because such parts are more or less in a state of inflammation. It is always better to en- large the stricture, than pinch and bruise the bowel in trying to get it through an opening, which is too small. Distention of the intestine sometimes prevents the reduction: but, when this is the only impediment, the part may ge- nerally be returned, as soon as its contents have been compressed into the intestinal canal within the stricture. It is better, however, to dilate the strangulation a little more, than use any force in trying to get the intestine back into the abdomen in the manner just suggested. Reduction is sometimes impeded by the pro- truded parts adhering to each other, or to the hernial sac. The intestines are not often found very firmly adherent together. The omentum and inside of the sac are the parts, which are most subject to become intimately connected by ad- hesions. The fingers will commonly serve for breaking any recent slight adhesions which may have taken place between the intestines and in- side of the hernial sac. When those adhesions are firm, and of long standing, they must be cautiously divided with the knife; an object, which can be most easily and safely accomplish- ed, in case they are long enough to permit the intestine to be elevated a little way from the sur- face of the sac. But, provided their firmness and shortness keep the external coat of the bowel and inner surface of the sac in close con- tact, the greatest care is requisite in separating the parts with a knife, so as to avoid wounding the intestine. In doing this, the most prudent and safe method, is not to cut too near the bowel, but rather to remove the adherent parts of the sac, and return them with the intestine into the abdomen. Every preternatural connexion should always be separated, before the viscera are reduced: Mr. A. Cooper mentions, that a fatal obstruction to the passage of the intestinal mat- ter has arisen from the mere adhesion of the two sides of a fold of intestine together. (/*. 31.) When the adhesions, which prevent reduction, are situated about the neck of the sac, and out of the operator’s view, it is best to make the wound through the skin and abdominal ring somewhat larger, so as to be able to separate the adhesions with more safety. Having reduced the parts, the operator should introduce his finger, for the purpose of being sure, that they are fairly and freely returned