O'2-l PHYMOSIS. to keep them together. The only necessary pressings are lint, anil over it un emollient poultice. At the period when I lirst entered the pro- fession, it was the custom to salivate every pa- tient who happened to have a phymosis. How- ever, now that the fact of any irritation about the prepuce and glans penis, even that of common warts, being capable of producing the complaint is well known, such absurd practice has been re- linquished, and the cause and condition of the disease are always considered previously to the determination for any particular method of treat- ment. Nay, even when phymosis does arise from chancres, if there be a great deal of inflam- mation, the use of mercury may rather do harm than good, and the practitioner should not be precipitate in its administration. On this point, I fully coincide with Mr. Travers:—“ Upon many occasions (says he) practitioners are too anxious to contend with the scientific character of the venereal disease, to the neglect of the in- flammatory state of the affected parts exhibited during its height. The abuse of administering mercury for an acute gonorrhoea, and recent sores, accompanied by phymosis, or an ap- proach to that state, is of common occurrence, and it is far from being recognized by the pro- fession, as an established rule of practice, that its constitutional administration is inadmissible during the existence of active inflammation, in cellular textures.” (Surgical Essays, Part 1 ,p. 131.) In nine cases, out of twelve, in which the ex- perienced Mr. Hey had occasion to amputate the penis for cancerous disease, the patients were also affected with a natural phymosis. (jPract. Obs. in Surgery.) Roux has noticed the same thing in three similar examples, and, therefore, as he conceives that phymosis may be conducive to carcinoma of the penis, he thinks that it should always be remedied in time. {Parallele de la Chir. Angloisc, p. 306.) TREATMENT OF PARAPHYMOSIS. The removal of the stricture in this case should always be effected, because its continuation is apt to produce a mortification in the parts, between the stricture and the glans. It may be done in two ways; either by compressing with the fin- gers all the blood out of the swelled glans so as to render this part sufficiently small to allow the constricting prepuce to be brought forward over it, with the aid of the two fingers; or by divid- ing the stricture with a knife. In the last edi- tion of this work, as Mr. Dunn of Scarborough has reminded me, the power of cold applica- tions, in promoting the reduction of the glans, should have been mentioned. This method should always be put in practice, before the reduction by compression is attempted, as a preliminary measure, which sometimes succeeds of itself, and renders unnecessary any painful handling of the parts. From the great success, which I have seen attend the first mode, I should not conceive the second one so frequently necessary, as Mr. Hunter seems to lay down. This operation is always troublesome to accom- plish, because the swelling, on each side of the stricture, covers or closes the tight part, which cannot be got at without difficulty. Mr. Hunter suys, the best way is to separate the two swell- ings, as much as possible, where you mean to cut, so as to expose the constricted part; then take a crooked pointed bistoury, pass it under the constriction, and divide it. None of the swollen skin, on each side, should l>e cut. The prepuce may now be brought forward, unless it be thought more convenient, for the purpose of dressing the chancres, to let it remain in its pre- sent situation. (See Hunter un the Venereal Disease, p. 238, 23*9.) The original disease producing phymosis and paraphymosis, must always be attended to, and the employment of mercury must be necessary or unnecessary, according to the nature of the af- fection, of which these are only effects. One of the most interesting -writers on Phy- mosis and Paraphymosis is J. L. Petit, Trait 6 des Mai. Chir. T. ‘2; many of whose valuable observations arc contained in the 'Id vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, 8vo. 1820. Consult also J. ITunter on the Venereal Disease. Sa- batier, Medecine Op&ratuirc, T. 3, 8vo. Paris, 1810. Travers, in Surgical Essays, Part J, 8 vo. Loud. 1818. There is also a valuable chap- ter on this subject in RichteVs Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 6. PILES. (See Hemorrhoids.) PILULE AMMONIARETI CUPRI Cupri Ammoniareti gr. xvj. Micae Panis £)iv. Liquoris Ammon, q. s. M. fiant pilulae xxxii. (Edinb. Disp.J This is said to be the best form of exhibiting copper internally, which mi- neral some think worthy of trial in cases of gleets. PILULiE ARGENTI NITRATIS. R. Argenti Nitratis gr. iij. Aquae Distillatae gutt. aliquot. Micae Panis q. s. ut fiant pil. xx. The author of the Pharmacopeia Chirurgica suggests the trial of these pills in obstinate leprous, and other cutaneous affections, and phagedenic, ano- malous ulcers, connected with constitutional causes. Two or three may be given twice a day. Dr. Powell gave the argentum nitratum internally, in a case of hydrophobia, but with- out any sensible effect. PILUL2E COLOCYNTHIDIS CUM HYDR. SUBM. R. Extracti Colocvnth. comp. Qij. Hydr. Submur. gr. xii. Saponis Qj. Misce ut fiant pilules duodecimo Two of these pills operate as a purgative, and they are often prescribed in various surgical cases. PILULA2 CON1I. R. Extracti Conii Jss. Pulv. Herb. Cicutae q. s. fiant pil. lx. These are the hemlock pills in use at Guy’s Hospital. Cicuta is occasionally given in scrophulons, can- cerous, and venereal cases. The surgeon should begin with small doses, and increase them gra- dually, till nausea and headach arise. From one to a greater number of these pills may be given, in this manner, every day. PILULAE CUPRI SULPHATIS. R. Cupri Sulphatis gr. xv. Olibnni Extracti Cin- chonae, sing. Jij. Syrup, simpl. q. s. fiant pil. lx. From one to four of these pills may be given in a day, for gleets. (Pharm. Chirurg.) PILUL/E HYDRARGYRI. Of these, I need only observe here, that the usual dose is ten grains. (See Mercury.)