/ / Ui'Ili ^ /I' belladonna will supersede the ce- ding away blood. lie even declares, / the first vehemence of the inflam- “ application is quite inefficient, and /uently will not succeed in producing a of the pupil, before bleeding has been j “ If, (says Langenbeck,) bleeding is to be useful in iritis, it must be copious, and often repeated.’ ’ Specific Cases of Iritis. The foregoing ob- servations refer to idiopathic iritis, or inflamma- tion of the iris uncomplicated with any specific disease. But there is an iritis, which “ appears in company with rheumatism of the chronic form; sometimes with gout; with the constitutional signs of the lues venerea ; and during, or follow- ing, the action of mercury upon the system.”— ( Travers, Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 59.) Mr. Hunter entertained doubts, whether any inflammations of the eyes are syphilitic, and he appears to found his opinion upon two circum- stances ; one is, that, if such cases be venereal, the disease is very different from what it is when it attacks other parts, and is attended with more pain, than venereal inflammation, arising from an affection of the constitution : the second is, that he never saw these cases, attended with such ulceration, as occurs when the complaint invades the mouth, throat, and tongue. (Hun- ter on the Venereal Disease, p. 324.) On the other hand, the generality of modern surgeons believe in the reality of venereal ophthalmy, though their accounts of the symptoms and ap- pearances of the complaint are in some respects discordant. Scarpa says, the venereal ophthal- my is peculiar in not discovering manifest signs of inflammation, stealing on clandestinely, with- out much uneasiness. It afterwards relaxes the vessels of the conjunctiva and lining of the pal- pebrae, and changes the secretion of Meibomius’s glands. In time it causes ulceration of the mar- gins of the eyelids; the ciliae fall off, and the cornea grows opaque. In the worst stage, it excites itching in the eyes, \yhich is exasperated at night, and abates in violence towards morning, as do almost all the effects of syphilis. It never attains the state of chemosis. With the excep- tion of the venereal ophthalmy, in the form of iritis, I cannot discover, that any thing very certain has yet been made out. By this observation, however, it is not meant to assert, that cases, corresponding to Scarpa’s description, do not present themselves, and may not be re- lieved by his method of treatment; but, that their venereal character is not fairly proved. In examples, like those described by Scarpa, the decoct, sarsap. the oxymuriate of mercury; me- zereon; guaiacum ; and even mercurial fric- tions, may be employed, with leeches and blis- ters. Scarpa particularly recommends a colly- rium, made with the oxymuriate of mercury. When the eyelids are ulcerated, the unguentum hydrargyri nitratri, weakened at first with twice or thrice its quantity of the unguentum cetaceum, is the best topical application. The iris is now supposed to be more liable, than any other part of the eye, to venereal in- flammation. (War dr op's Essays on the Morbid Aunt, of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 36.) The case is mentioned by Mr. Saunders, who recommends the vigorous exhibition of mercury, and the use of belladonna. Its symptoms and treatment, however, have been more particularly detailed by Beer. (Lehre von den Augcnkr. 11. I, p. 553.) As this ease, and some other specific forms of iritis, are described in the first vol. of the last edition of the First Lines of Surgery', I need here only refer the reader to that volume, and to a few works containing additional information on iritis in general; as Saunders's Treatise on some Practical Points, relating to Diseases of the Eye, p. 21, 8vo. 1811 ; and particularly the latter editions, in which the utility of mer- curials is noticed. Beer's Lehre von den Au- gcnkr. B. I, 8vo. Wien. 1813. In the article Hypopium, I have referred to an early case, in which the quick exhibition of mercury and its good effects were exemplified in Germany. But whatever claims the continental surgeons may have respecting the first admini- stration of mercury in iritis, I believe it a jus- tice due to Hr. Farre and Mr. Travers to state, that these gentlemen have undoubtedly given not only the best practical directions on the subject, but laid the greatest stress upon the necessity of the practice, establishing the efficacy of mercury-, as a means as well of resisting the effusion of lymph in the eye, as of exciting the absorp- tion of it, after it has been effused. I See Tra- vers, in Surgical Essays, Part 1.) Consult also J. Vetch, A Practical Treatise on the Dis- eases of the Eye, p. 88. cjc. 8»o. Load. 1820. Wviler's Manual of the Diseases of the Human Eye, Trans, by Montcath, 8vo.' Glasgow, 1821. J. War dr op, Morbid Anatomy of the Eye, Vol. 2, chap. 20, 8vo. Lond. 1818. II. B. Schindler, de Iritidc Chronica, Vratislavia', 1819. J. A. Schmidt liber Nachstaar and Iritis nacli Staar-Opcn/iionen, 4to. Wien. 1801 ; a work of high repute. Carmichael in Obs. on the Specific Distinctions of Venereal Diseases, p. 31. Quarterly Jo urn. of Foreign Medicine, Nov. 1818. Rheumatic Inflammation of the Eye. Ac- cording to Mr. Wardrop, the albuginea acquires a brick-red tinge, or an admixture of yellow with crimson red, which colour, he supposes, is pro- bably caused by the serous part of the blood being tinged with bile, “ an effect, likely to take place from the marked derangement of the biliary or- gans, which usually accompanies this disease.” Contrary to the statement of Beer, who describes the blood vessels as being in clusters, Mr. War- drop observes, that they are generally equally nu- merous over the whole white of the eye, passing forwards in nearly straight lines from the pos- terior part of the eyeball, and advancing close to the cornea; but neither passing over it, nor leaving the pale circle around it, which is so striking, when either the choroid coat, or the iris is inflamed. If the vessels be closely ex- amined, the general redness will be found pro- duced more by- numerous small ramifications, than a few large trunks. There is frequently a little swelling of the conjunctiva, which some- times forms a slightly elevated ring round the cornea. In mild cases, little change takes place in the anterior chamber in the early stage; but, as the disease advances, the cornea becomes dull and turbid. Upon close examination, one or more of the layers of the conjunctiva on the cor- nea will generally be found to be abraded, espe-