UNG 107 UNG phulotis sores, this ointment may be applied with a prospect of advantage. (Pharm. Chirurg.) The Pharmacopoeia of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital directs the unguentum conii, vel cicutae, to be made as follows:—Foliorum Cicutae tbj* Adipis Suillae Jj^iss. Boil the leaves in the melted hog’s-lard, until they become crisp. Then strain the ointment. A similar ointment might be more conveniently made, bv mixing the extraction conii with any common salve. UNGUENTUM DIGITALIS.—K-. Fo- liorum Digitalis Purpureas recentium. Adipis Suffice prceparatie, sing. ^iv. This ointment may be made in the same manner as the unguentum conii, and tried in the same cases. UNGUENTUM ELEMI COMPOSI- TUM.— (v- Elemi j[jj. Terebinthinae Jx. Sevi Ovffili praeparati j|yij. Olei Olivce j^ij. Melt the elemi with the suet; remove them from the fire, and mix them immediately with the turpentine and oil. Then strain the mixture.—■ Sometimes employed for dressing ulcers, which stand in need of stimulating applications. UNGUENTUM GALLZE CAMPHOR- ATUM. —Gallarum Pulveris Subtilissimi 5jj. Camphorae Jss. Adipis Suillae praeparatae yij. Misce.—This is a very good application to piles, after their inflammatory state has been di- minished by the liq. plumbi acet. dilut. and leeches. UNGUENTUM IIELLEBORI ALBI — ]y,. Hcllebori Albi Pulv. ^j. Adipis Suillae praeparatae ^iv. Olei Limouis 3ss. Misce.— This ointment will cure the itch, and several other cutaneous diseases. Tinea capitis will sometimes vield to it. UNGUENTUM HYDRARGYIU FOR- TIUS.— f\_. Hydrargyri purificati Adipis Suillae praeparatae J;xxiij. Sevi Ovilli praeparati ?j. First rub the quicksilver with the suet, and a little of the hog’s-lard, until the globules dis- appear; then add the remainder of the lard, and make an ointment.—This is the common, strong, mercurial ointment. Of its uses we need say nothing in this place. UNGUENTUM HYDRARGYRI CAM- I’HORATUM.— Ungnenti Hydrargyri tjj. Camphorae Jss. Misce.—This is often recom- mended to be rubbed on thickened, indurated parts, with the view of exciting the action of the absorbents. Rubbed along the course of the urethra, it is very serviceable in diminishing and removing ch&rdee. UNGUENTUM HYDRARGYRI MI- TIUS.—Unguenti Hydrargyri fort. jj^j. Adipis Suillae praeparatae jjyj. Misce.—The weaker mercurial ointment is often rubbed on indurated, thickened parts and tumors, when the object is merely to promote' their absorption; and, it is not advisable to employ the unguentum hydrargyri fort, lest a salivation should be in- duced. UNGUENTUM HYDRARGYRI 1 I RAJ IS — |y. Hydrarg. Purificati ?j. A Nitrosi ^ij. Adipis praeparatae tjvj. Oici 01 3ly. Dissolve the quicksilver in the nitr acid; and whilst the solution is vet hot, with it the oil and hog’s-lard, previously rnel nit beginning to concrete, by being expose t ic air. Ibis ointment is a celebrated appl cation to tlic inside of the eyelids, in case: chronic ophthalrny, and also to specks on the cornea. \Yhen blended with a little olive oil, it also forms a very eligible stimulating dressing for numerous kinds of sores. It is particularly efficacious in curing tinea capitis, and many other cutaneous diseases. UNGUENTUM HYDRARGYRI NI- TRICO-OXYDI.— . Hydrargyri nitrico- oxydi ijj. Gene Albce ^ij. Adipis preepar. ^vj. Misce. —This is a common stimulating ap- plication to indolent ulcers, and sores in ge- neral . UNGUENTUM HYDRARGYRI PRA5- CIPITATI ALBI. — [y. Hydrarg. Praicip. Albi 3j. Adipis praeparatae Jiss. Misce. An useful application in certain cases of porrigo, and some other cutaneous diseases. See Porrigo. UNGUENTUM LIQ. PLUMBI ACE- TATIS.—]^/. Liquoris Plumbi Acetatis <jv. Adipis Suillae j^j. Cerae Albae Ijiv. Melt the ingredients together, and continue to stir them till cold.—This ointment is employed with great advantage as a simple dressing. Ac- cording to Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, it is much improved by pouring the liquified mix- ture, before the lead has been added to it, into cold water. It is then to be rubbed in a mortar, or on a slab, with the liq. plumbi acet. '1 lie water occasions a fine white cloudy precipitation, which gives to the composition a better appear- ance. UNGUENTUM OPHTHALMICUM.— £j/. Adipis Suillae praeparatae ^ss. Tutiae prae- paratae, Bob Armen, sing. Jij. Praecip. Hy- drarg. Albi Jj. Misce.—Junin’s celebrated ophthalmic ointment, frequently mentioned in the patls of this work, which relate to diseases of the eve and eye-lids. UNGUENTUM OXYGENATUM, vel ACIDI NITROSI.—Axungiae Suillae re- centis; non stilsae uneins sedecim. Leni ealore in vase vitreo lente liquefactis aut continua agitatione instillentur, Aeidi Nitriei unciie duae. Massa igni exponatur, donee ebullire coepit; tunc ab igne removeatur, frigefactaque servetur. In this process, the nitric acid is decomposed, the nitrous gas escaping, and the oxygen com- bining with the lard. This ointment was parti- cularly recommended by Alvon, as an applica- tion to venereal and - herpetic ulcers. Its virtues are said to vary considerably, according to the strength of the acid employed, and it is not generally deemed so efficacious as the oint- ment of nitrate of mercury. UNGUENTUM PICIS.—fy. Pieis, Sevi Ovilli praeparati, sing, jj^ss. Melt, and then strain them. UNGUENTUM PICIS COMPOSITUM. — |^. Unguenti Pieis, Unguenti Plumbi Su- peracetatis sing. |}yss. Misce. The two preceding ointments are applicable to cases of tinea capitis, and some eruptive com- plaints. Also to some kinds of irritable ulcers. UNGUENTUM PICIS CUM SUL- PHURTi. — |-^. Unguenti Pieis, Unguenti Sulpliuris, sing. 5iv. Misce.—This is one of the most common, and, I believe, the most effi- cacious, applications lor curing tinea capitis, or porrigo. UNGUENTUM PIUMBI SUPERA- CETATIS.—Jy Plumbi Supcracclutis Jij.