OPHTHALMY. 867 tonia, eoque major opus est ailstringentium et oboraritium longo usu, ut auferantur penitus eliquise niorbi, &c. f'usicah Oos» hi) • 1 , '• 109.) , , It is on the accession of the second stage of phthalmv, that one may remark the sudden icrease of redness in the inflamed texture, with brown and afterwards a blue tinge ; actual ex- avasations of blood in the chambers of the ,ueous humor; ecehvmosis of the conjunctiva; considerable increase of swelling ; the decline id irregularity of the pain; the decrease of the iflammatory heat and throbbing; a sensation of old and heaviness in the organ ; and more or ss oedematous swelling of the surrounding irts. It is also in the second stage, that sup- iration is liable to happen, (Beer, Lehre, <S[C. . 1, p. 46.) And, in another page, the same :ithor observes, that the characteristic signs of e second stage of ophthalmy consist in the fol- ding appearances: while the redness and swell- ct undergo a sudden and striking increase, the D 3 v ^ irdness manifestly diminishes, and the pain be- imes very unequal, and not continual; the •cretions and excretions, also, which, during ie first stage, were completely stopped, com- ence again, but more copiously, and are of a jry different quality from what they were in the ate of health. The disorder is now quite in its cond stage, and this is the time, when purulent atter may begin to be formed, (B. I, p. 50.) ccording to Beer, the duration of idiopathic ihthalmy depends upon the circumstances of ch individual case; first, the nature of the uses giving rise to the affection ; secondly, e irritability of the patient, in relation to cen- turion, sex, and age; thirdly, what may be rmed the constitution of the affected eye it- If, and the texture in it immediately inflamed, has ophthalmy is likely to be attended with eat severity, when it attacks plethoric indi- duals, in whom there has been for some time eviously a great determination of blood to the ■ad and eyes, or whose sight has been strained looking at shining objects, or constitutions irt by good living and hard drinking. Every vere ophthalmy runs through its first stage uch more rapidly in weak, irritable subjects id children, than in robust individuals. It is :o another remark made by Beer, that every flammation of the eye, at all considerable, is merallv of shorter continuance in grey or blue- ed, than in dark, or black-eyed persons; and, the same manner, inflammation of the internal, isible and tender textures of the eyeball always ■ uses through its first stage more quickly, than .lamination of the eyelids. ' With respect to the ('Muses of ophthalmy in neral, as the disorder frequently affects the nermost parts of the eye, and, when severe, is ■tended with some risk of the loss of the organ, e annihilation of its functions, or the spoiling some of its textures; and also, as inflam- ation is the most frequent complaint to which e eye is subject, it is important to learri, as r as possible, the causes, which either directly, ' indirectly, give rise to it. The atmospheric air and lighb have a direct id powerful operation upon the eyes ; and, in •der that the former may have no hurtful effect ?on these organs, it should be pure, that is to say, its regular component parts should not be altered, nor blended with extraneous substances. The temperature of the air is likewise described by Beer, as making a good deal of difference in the susceptibility of the eyes for inflammation, either a very warm, or cold air, being, in this respect, hurtful. The observation, however, is qualified with the admission, that the terms warm and c-yld have only a relative signification to indi- vidual circumstances. The effect of a blast of cold air on the eye, in exciting inflammation, is universally known, and needs no comment. It is an opinion of Beer, that the eye is much affected by the quantity of electricity in the at- mosphere, and, he says, that, on this account, no experienced practitioner would undertake the extraction of a cataract during, or on the ap- proach of, a storm. (B. I, p. 05.) Passing over many interesting observations made by Beer, on the contamination of the atmospheric air by the admixture of other gases, and the injurious effect of this change upon the eyes, I come to his remarks on the operation of light upon these organs. Though light, he ob- serves, is indispensable to the functions of the eye, it becomes pernicious, when suddenly in- creased beyond what the organ can bear, so as to be a source of irritation. As a proof of this fact, he cites an instance, in which a young, plethoric, strong man, whose eyes had been for some time unavoidably strained by immoderate exercise of them, was suddenly attacked with a violent ophthalmy, while looking at an optical representation of the rising sun, and carried home in great agony. But, with respect to the influence of light, Beer observes, that every statement is to be received only in a relative sense; for, the degree of light, which would answer very well for the eye of an African, would destroy many European eyes ; and the same light, which is borne without inconveni- ence by the eye of an adult, would excite in the eye of a newborn infant the ophthahnia neona- torum, by which so many children are deprived of the most valuable of the senses in the first days of their existence. Beer further explains, that the same degree of light produces a stronger, or weaker effect, according to the greater or lesser irritability of the eye of the same person at different times, as we see exemplified in every individual in the tenderness of his eye to light when he first awakes in the morning. Light is also not hurtful to the eyes, merely according to its quantity; for, the direction of the rays makes a great deal of difference, the eye being less capable of bearing them with impunity the more they recede from a perpendicular line, and strike the organ slopingly, or horizontally. Much likewise depends upon the kind of light; that which is reflected from a scarlet surface, being even more prejudicial, than the sunshine, which is reflected from a country covered with snow; another convincing proof, that the bad ef- fects are not always in proportion to the quan- tity of rays. The light of burning-glasses, con- cave mirrors, white-screens, the full moon, &c. and the shining of diamonds, are well known to render the eyes weak, and prone to inflammation. Amongst other occasional causes of ophthalmy, Beer enumerates the custom of washing the eyes immoderately with cold water, a remark in which 3KS