294 CATARACT. "'hen no inflammation arises from the injury, the their ineflicacy in numerous instances, he felt au- cataract often occurring in a few hours, and in so thorized in declaring, that internal remedies, considerable a degree as not to admit of being either of the mercurial, or any other kind, are mistaken. inadequate to the cure of this disorder; and The cause of cataract, thus rapidly pro- equally so, whether the opacity be in the erys- duced, must depend, in Beer’s opinion, upon the talline, or in the capsule, whether incipient, or complete separation of the lens, from its eonnex- advanced. ions with the capsule, and not unfrcquently in Although the late Mr. Ware coincided with part upon the detachment of the capsule itself Wenzel, and Beer, in regard to the uncertainty of from the neighbouring textures; for, in such all known medicines to dissipate an opacity, cases, this membrane also gradually becomes either in the lens, or its capsule, or even opaque* to prevent the progress of such opacity, when ■ According to Beer, cataracts frequently arise once begun, yet according to his observations, : from a slow, insidious, inflammation of the lens many cases prove, that the powers of nature are 1 and its capsule. often sufficient to accomplish these purposes. With respect to the prognosis, it must be evi- The opacities, in particular, which are produced dent from what has been premised, that there are by external violence, Mr. Ware had repeatedly many cataracts, in which the cure is highly pro- seen dissipated in a short space of time, when no blematical, and others, in which the impossibility other parts of the eye had been hurt. In such ' of restoring vision, even in the slightest degree, cases, the crystalline lens is generally absorbed, may be predicted with absolute certainty. as is proved by the benefit, which is afterwards With the little positive information, which sur- derived from very convex glasses. In some of geons possess concerning the causes of cata- these cases, though the crystalline had been dis- racts, scarcely any expectation can ever be en- solved, the greater part of the capsule remained > tertained of curing opacities of the lens and its opaque, and the light was transmitted to the re- capsule, by means of medicine, so as to super- tina only through a small aperture, which had • sede all occasion for an operation. A possibility become transparent in its centre. Instances are ; of success, as Beer remarks, can exist, only when also not wanting, in which cataracts, formed with- I the cause of the cataract is ascertained, admits of out any violence, have been suddenly dissipated | complete removal, and the disease is in an early in consequence of an accidental blow on the eve. I stage. And, he has learned from manifold and The remedies, which Mr. Ware found more ef- I repeated trials, that the attempt to cure an in- fectual, than others, were the application to the I cipient cataract will never succeed, except when eye itself of one, or two drops of aether, once, or ! some determinate and obvious general or local twice, in the course of the day, and occasionally I affection of a curable nature has had a chief share rubbing the eye, over the lid, with the point of 1 jn the production of the disease of the eye ; as, the finger, first moistened with a weak volatile, or ] for instance, serophula in a mildish form, syphilis mercurial liniment. But, as Beer observes, the I (?) and the sudden cure of eruptions, or old ulcers operation is now regarded almost as the only | of the legs, (?) or a slow insidious inflammation means, affording any rational hope of restoring j of the iris and capsule of the lens. In some ex- the eye-sight of patients afflicted with cataracts, amples of this kind, Beer could only check the Notwithstanding also the perfection, to which - further progress of the cataract, and, even when the operation, with all its diflerent modifications, the eye sight was improved, it was never ren- is really brought, its performance will not always j dered perfectly clear. And, when the cataract re-establish vision ; nay, says Beer, it is fre- I was far advanced, and quite developed, with the quently counterindicated ; and, even in favour- I exception of the general melioration of the health, able cases, the result of the operation is exposed I and an improved state of the eye, wdiereby it was to so many contingencies, that it is rather a mat- 11 put in a better condition for the operation; not ter of surprise, that, on the whole, so much sue- I the slightest benefit was derived from medicine, cess should attend it, as is found to happen. (Lehrei$c. _R. 2, p. 333.) When an operation for a cataract is done ap- | The principal external remedies that have been parently under favourable circumstances, and its I tried for the cure of the cataract, are, bleeding, event is unexpectedly very incomplete, or quite j cupping, scarifying, setons, issues, blisters, and unsuccessful, surgeons in vain ascribe the failure f fumigations; and the chief internal remedies to the method of operating, which they have j are aperients, emetics, cathartics, sudorifics, hitherto adopted, and uselessly abandon it for j cepbalics, and sternutatories. Preparations of another; because, none of these methods, includ- j eye-bright, millepedes, wild poppy, henbane, and ing that which is preferred, brought to the highest hemlock, were some years ago credulously com- state of perfection possible, can be applicable to mended, as specifics for the disorder. all cataracts. But, says Beer, the reason of the Scultetus asserts, that he checked the progress ill success is generally rather owing to the opera- of a cataract, by applying to the eye the gall of tion not having been indicated, or to a mode of a pike, mixed with sugar; and Spigelius boasted operating, not well calculated for the particular of having successfully used, lor this purpose, the case, having been selected. He ridicules the idea oil of the eelpout (mustelo Jluviulilis.) of adhering exclusively to any one plan of operat- Cataracts are said to have been cured in vene- ing ; and, whenever the question is put to him* real patients, while under a course of mercury, what is his own plan ? he answers, that his cus- Probably, however, many such cases might have tom is to operate in the manner, which appears to been mere opacities of the cornea, which had been him to be best adapted to each particular case, mistaken for cataracts. Wenzel placed no re- about which he is consulted. A surgeon should liance whatever on the power of any remedies to be able to distinguish, first, the cases of cataract, dissipate a cataract, and, as he had remarked in which an operation may be done with the best