796 LUMBAR ABSCESS. The abscess sometimes forms a swelling above Poupart’s ligament; sometimes below it; and fre- quently the matter glides under the fascia of the thigh. Occasionally, its makes its way through the sacro-ischiatic foramen, and assumes rather the appearance of a fistula in ano. When the matter gravitates into the thigh, beneath the fascia, Mr. Hunter would have termed it a dis- ease in, not of, the part. The uneasiness in the loins, and the impulse communicated to the tu- mor by coughing, evince, that the disease arises in the lumber region ; but, it must be confessed, that we can hardly ever know the existence of the disorder, before the tumor, by presenting itself externally, leads us to such information. The lumbar abscess is sometimes connected with diseased vertebrae, which may either be a cause, or an effect, of the collection of matter.—The disease, however, is frequently unattended with this complication. The disease of the spine, we may infer, is not of the same nature as that treated of by Pott, as there is usually no paralysis. When the bodies of patients with lumbar abscesses are opened, it is found, that the matter is completely enclosed in a cyst, which, in many cases, is of course very extensive If the contents of such abscesses were not circumscribed by a membranous boundary in this manner, we should have them spreading among the cells of the cellular substance, just like the water in anasarca. The cysts are both secreting and absorbing surfaces, as is proved by the great quantity of matter, which soon collects again after the abscess has been emptied, and by the occasional disappearance of large palpable collections of matter of this kind, either spon- taneously, or in consequence of means which are known to operate by exciting the action of the absorbents. In short, the cyst becomes the sup- purating surface, and suppuration is now well ascertained to be a process, similar to glandular secretion. While the abscess remains unopened, its contents are always undergoing a change; fresh matter is continually forming, and a portion of what was previously in the cyst is undergoing the necessary removal by the absorbents. This is not peculiar to lumbar abscesses; it is common to all, both chronic and acute, buboes and sup- purations in general. It is true, that, in acute abscesses, there often has not been time for the formation of so distinct a membrane as the cyst of a large chronic abscess; but their matter is equally circumscribed by the cavities of the cel- lular substance being filled with a dense co- agulating lymph; and though it generally soon makes its way to the surface, it also is occa- sionally absorbed. The best modern surgeons make it a common maxim to open very few acute abscesses; for the matter naturally tends with great celerity to the surface of the body, where ulceration allows it to escape spontaneously; after which, the case ge- nerally goes on better, than if it had been opened by art. But, in chronic abscesses, the matter has not that strong tendency to make its way out- ward; its quantity is continually increasing; the cyst is, of course, incessantly growing larger and larger; in short, the matter, from one ounce, often gradually increases to the quantity oi a gallon. When the disease is at length opened, or bursts by ulceration, the surface of the cyst, irritated by the change, inflames; and its great extent, in this circumstance, is enough to ac- count for the terrible constitutional disorder, and fatal consequences, which too frequently soon follow the evacuation of the contents of such an abscess. Hence, in cases of chronic suppurations of every kind, and not merely in lumbar abscesses, it is the surgeon’s duty to observe the opposite rule to that applicable to acute cases; and lie is called upon to open the collection of matter, as soon as he is aware of its existence, and its situa- tion will allow it to be done. Certainly, it would be highly advantageous to have some means of ascertaining whether the vertebrae are also diseased; for, as in this in- stance, the morbid bones would keep up suppura- tion, until their affection had ceased, and there would be no reasonable hope of curing the ab- scess sooner, it might be better to avoid punc- turing it under such circumstances. The pro- priety of this conduct seems the more obvious, as issues, which are the means most likely to stop and remove the disease of the spine, are also such as afford most chance of bringing about the absorption of the abscess itself. However, if the collection cannot be prevented from dis- charging itself, and ulceration is at band, it is best to meet the danger, make an opening with the lancet, in a place at some distance from where the pointing threatens, and afterwards heal it, in the way which will be presently detailed. Though we have praised the prudence of open- ing all chronic abscesses while small, the deep situation of the lumbar one, and the degree of doubt alwa)'s involving its early state, unfor- tunately prevent us from taking this beneficial step in the present case. But still the prin- ciple is equally praiseworthy, and should urge us to open the tumor as soon as the fluctuation of the matter is distinct, and the nature of the case is evident. For this purpose, Mr. Abernethv employs an abscess lancet, which will make an opening large enough for the discharge of those flaky substances so frequently found blended with the matter of lumbar abscesses, aud by some conceived to be an emblem of the disease being scropbulous. Such flakes seem to consist of a part of the coagulating matter of the blood, and are very commonly secreted by the pecidiar cysts of scropbulous abscesses. The puncture must also be of a certain size, in order to allow the clots of blood, occasionally mixed with the matter, to escape. Mr. Abernethy considers the opening of a lumbar abscess a very delicate ope- ration. Former surgeons used to make large openings in these cases; let out the contents ; leave the wound open : the usual consequences of which were, great irritation and inflammation of the cyst; immense disturbance of the con- stitution ; putrefaction of the contents of the ab- scess, in consequence of the entrance of air into its cavity; and, too often, death. While such practice prevailed, very few, afflicted with lumbar abscesses, were fortunate enough to escape. The same alarming effects resulted from allowing the abscess to attain its utmost magnitude, and then burst by ulceration. If then a more happy train of events depend upon the manner, in which lumbar abscesses arc punctured, the operation is certainly a matter of great delicacy. Until the collection is opened, or bunts, the