WOUNDS. 1219 part of the bowel, not only because its exact situation is unknown, but more particularly, on account of the adhesions, which are always formed with surprising rapidity. But, even if the sur- geon knew, to a certainty, in the first instance, that one of the bowels was wounded, and the pre- cise situation of the injury, no suture could be applied, without considerably enlarging the ex- ternal wound, drawing the wounded intestine out of the cavity of the abdomen, and handling and disturbing all the adjacent viscera. Nothing would be more likely, than such proceedings, to render the accident, which may originally be curable, unavoidably fatal. I entirely agree upon this point with Mr. John Bell, who says, “ When there is a wounded intestine, which we are warned of only by the passing out of the feces, we must not pretend to search for it, nor put in our finger, nor expect to sew it to the wound; but we may trust, that the universal pressure, which prevents great effusion of blood, and collects the blood into one place, that very pressure, which always causes the wounded bowel and no other to protrude, will make the two wounds, the out- ward wound and the inward wound of the intes- tine, opposite each other, point to point; and if all be kept there quiet, though but for one day, so lively is the tendency to inflame, that the adhe- sion will be begun, which is to save the pa tient‘s life.” (Discourses on Wounds, p. 3til, Edit. 3.) When the extravasation, and other symptoms, a few days after the accident, shew the nature of the case, a suture can be of no use whatever, as the adhesive inflammation has already fixed the part in its situation, and the space, in which the extravasation lies, is completely separated from the general cavity of the abdomen, by the sur- rounding adhesions. When the bowel does not protrude, and the opening in it is situated closely behind the wound in the peritoneum, a suture is not requisite, for the contents of the gut not passing onward, will be discharged from the outer wound, and not be diffused among the viscera, if care be taken to keep the external wound open. There is no dan- ger of the wounded bowel changing its situation, and becoming distant from the wound in the pe- ritoneum, for the situation, which it now occupies, is its natural one. Nothing, but violent motion, or exertions, could cause so unfavourable an oc- currence, and these should always be avoided. The adhesions, which take place in the course of a day or two, at length render it impossible for the bowel to shift its situation. Things, however, are far different when the wounded part of the bowel happens to pro- trude. Here we have the authority of all writers, in sanction of the employment of a suture. No enlargement of the outer wound is requisite to enable the practitioner to adopt such practice; there is no disturbance of the adjacent parts; there is no doubt concerning the actual existence of the injury; no difficulty in immediately finding out its situation. But, though authors are so generally agreed about the propriety of using a suture, in the case of a wounded and protruded bowel, they differ exceed- ingly, both as to the right object of the method, and the most advantageous mode of sewing the injured part of the intestine. Some have little apprehension of extravasation, advise only one stitch to be made, and use the ligature chiefly with a view of confining the injured bowel near the external wound, so that, in the event of an extravasation, the effused matter may find its way outward. Other writers wish to remove the possibility of extravasation, by applying numer- ous stitches, and attach little importance to the plan of using the ligature principally for the pur- pose of keeping the intestine near the superficial wound. When the wound of a bowel is so small, that it is closed by the protrusion of the villous coat, the application of a suture must evidently be altogether needless; and since the ligature would not fail to cause irritation, as an extraneous sub- stance, the employment of it ought unquestionably to be dispensed with. Supposing, however, the breach in the intes- tine to he small, yet sufficient to let the feces escape, what method ought to be adopted ? The following practice seems rational. As Sir Astley Cooper was operating on a strangulated hernia, at Guy’s Hospital, an aperture, giving issue to the intestinal contents, was discovered in a portion of the sound bowel, just when the part was about to be reduced. The operator, including the aper- ture in his forceps, caused a fine silk ligature to be carried beneath the point of the instrument, firmly tied upon the gut, and the ends cut off’ close to the intestine. The part was then re- placed, and the patient did well. Mr. Travers, who has related this fact, approves of the plan of cutting away the extremities of the ligature, in- stead of leaving them hanging out of the external wound. It appears, that, when the first practice is followed, the remnant always makes its way into the intestine, and is discharged with the stools, without any inconvenience. But, when the long ends are drawn through the outer wound, and left in it, they materially retard the process of healing. (On Injuries of the In- testines, Sf C. p. 112, 113.) Let us now inquire what ought to be the conduct of a surgeon, should he be called to a patient, whose bowel is divided through its whole cylinder, and protruded out of the ex- ternal wound. Various have been the schemes and proposals, for the treatment of this sort of accident; and since experience has furnished few practitioners with an opportunity of seeing such a case in the human subject, a variety of experiments have been made on animals, in order to determine what treatment would be the most successful. Ilamdohr, indeed, is stated by Moebius to have had occasion to try on the human subject a plan, of which a vast deal has been said and written. Hecut off a large part of a mortified intestine, and joined the two sound ends together, by inserting the upper within the lower one, and fixing them in this position with a suture, the ligature being also employed to keep them at the same time near the external wound. The patient recovered, and the feces continued to pass entirely by the rectum in the natural way. (See Halleri Disput. Anal. Vol. G, Ohs. Med. Miscctlan. 18.) About a year after the operation, the patient died, when the anatomical preparation of the parts wns sent to Ilamdohr by llcister. lliey were preserved in spirits of wine, and exhibited,