790 LITHOTOMY. strument aside, and employ the knife only, and the blunt gorget as a conductor for the forceps.” (Med. Chir. Trans. p. 405.) Now, when we remember that this gentleman has lost only two out of eighty-four patients, on whom he has operated, his remarks are of great importance; and his cases, and the other (acts, which I have specified, strongly impress my mind with the truth of all that I have urged, re- specting the advantages of making the opening large, and in the best direction for the easy pas- sage of the stone outward. In Mr. Martineau’s manner of operating, it is true, he does not make the external wound parallel to that in the bladder, as I venture to recommend, blit directs it nearly in a line with the raphe ; a circumstance which may, perhaps, account for his continuing the use of the blunt gorget as a conductor for the forceps. Neither is his internal incision carried downwards and out- wards, as Bertraudi, Desault, and many other judicious surgeons consider most advantageous. But these defects (if I may presume to call them so) are rendered of less consequence by the rule, which Mr. Martineau observes, of malting his first incision long and deep, and avoiding all stretching and laceration of the parts. Like Langenbeclc(sce First Lines o f Surgery, Vol. ‘1), he uses a staff, the groove of which is much wider and deeper than usual, and therefore more easily felt. This instrument his assistant holds, in the way pre- ferred by Scarpa, nearly in an upright straight direction. After the first incision (says Mr. Martineau) I look if the staff is not altered in its situation, and then feeling for the groove, I in- troduce the point of the knife into it, as low down as I can, and cut the membranous part of the urethra, continuing my knife through the prostate into the bladder ; when, instead of enlarging the wound downwards, and en- dangering the rectum, I turn the edge of the blade towards the ischium, and make a lateral enlargement of the wound in withdrawing the knife." (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11, p. 409.) This description is particularly inte- resting, as coming from a gentleman, who has had so much experience and success ; and its value would have been increased, had the direc- tion, in which the edge of the knife was turned in the division of the prostate gland, been exactly specified. With respect to the degree of importance, which ought to be attached to the fear of effusion of urine, between the bladder and rectum, gan- grene, fistulae, &c., I can only say, that they are inconveniences which are not commonly ob- served after lithotomy in this country. In two or three instances only, I have known the urine come through the wound longer than usual, and these cases ended well. As for the extrava- sation of urine and sloughing, I shall merely remark, that although there cannot be a doubt of their occasional occurrence, they have not taken place after any of the numerous operations, with the results of which I have been acquainted. ' All these facts and considerations, therefore, incline me to doubt whether the apprehension of the effusion of urine, fistulae, &c. be sufficiently Serious and well-founded to make it advisable for ^prgeons to relinquish the plan ol making a complete division of the side of the prostate gland, and neck of the bladder, in the operation of lithotomy. Nor is it at all clear to my mind, that effusion of urine and sloughing are likelv to be the effect of practising a free opening. In- deed, whenever they do happen, I believe they proceed from a totally different cause, viz. from the incision in the skin being too small and too high up, and from the axis of the internal part of the incision not corresponding with that of the external wound. Hence the urine does not readily find its way outward, and some of it passes into the neighbouring cellular membrane. In confirmation of the foregoing remarks, I beg leave to cite the sentiments of one of the greatest and most experienced of modern sur- geons. Speaking of the defects of Hawkins’* gorget, Desault observes, “ La melhode de fen- forcer horizontalement dans la vessie sur la ca- theter tenu a angle droit avec le corps, a deux grands desavantages : d’un cote eelui de pe- netrer par l’endroit le plus retreci du pubis, et par consequent de ne faire que difficilement une ouverture suffisante; d’un autre cote, eelui de ne pas etablir de parallelisme entre l’incision exte- rieure des tegumens qui est oblique et celle du col de la vessie et de la prostate, qui se trouve alors horizontale. De-la la possibility des in- filtrations par les obstacles qui les urines trouve- ront a s’ecouler.” No doubt also some of the worst, and most dangerous, urinary extravasations after litho- tomy, have proceeded from another cause, pointed out by the same excellent surgeon. Imprudemment porte dans la vessie, le gorge- ret peut aller, par le stylet beaucoup trop long qui le termine, heurter, dechirer, perforer meme la membrane de la vessie, et donner lieu a des infiltrations d'autant plus dangereuses, que le lieu d’ou elles partent est plus inaccessible. Cet accident est surtout a craindre, lorsque, comme les Anglais, on se sert de catheter sans cul-de- sac.” (See (Euvres Chir. de Desault par Bi- chat, T. 2, p. 460, 461.) LITHOTOMY THROUGH THE RECTUM. This method may be said to have been first suggested in a work published at Bale, in the 16th century, by an author who assumed the name of Vegetius :—“ Jubet per vulnus recti intestini, et vesicas aculeo lapidem ejicere,” says Haller, in speaking of this writer. (Bill Chir. Vol. 1, p. 102.) But the proposal never re- ceived much attention until the year 1816, when M. Sanson, in France, gave an account of this manner of operating, and urged several consi- derations in favour of the practice. In that country, however, the operation has been per- formed only by Dupuytren, and, though the operation proved successful, the other French surgeons do not appear to have imitated him. Nor am I aware that Dupuytren himself now .continues the practice. Almost as soon as this method was heard of on the other side of the Alps, it was put to the test of experience by Barban- tini, in a case where every other plan of ope- rating appeared hardly practicable. “ The con- nexion of the urethra with the rectum, pro- state gland, and posterior part of the bladder^