886 OPHTHALMY* tiva of the eyeball in profuse quantity, particu- larly accumulating over the cornea, and not unfrequently drying into a thick pellicle, when long detained in the eye. Hence, the case looks as if the whole eyeball, or, at least, all the cor- nea, were in a state of complete suppuration. At length, the tumefied conjunctiva of the eyeball becomes sarcomatous, though never in such a degree as that of the eyelids. When the sup- purative period ceases, and with it the most urgent danger to the eye, the secretion of mucus alone continues, as at the first period of the second stage, the swelling of the conjunctiva of the eye- lids, and of the sclerotic conjunctiva, when this has also been affected, diminishes, and the dis- order ends in an increased effusion of tears, or true epiphora. When the effects of the sup- puration upon the conjunctiva of the eyeball are more severe, the corneal production of this mem- brane in the most favourable cases is raised from the subjueent cornea, and so opaque, that the eyesight is lost, or at all events seriously impaired, until the transparency returns, which is sometimes late, especially when efficient treat- ment is not put in practice. Should the sup- puration be very deep, the cornea, which al- ways turns whiter and whiter, presents near the edge of the swelling of the conjunctiva an ar- rangement, similar to that of the leaves of an old book, and at length seems converted into a mass of purulent matter, which projects more and more out of the depression in the swelled con- junctiva, and then bursts in its centre either quickly and with very violent pain, or slowly without any suffering, an oval hole being left, behind which the yet transparent crystalline lens appears, included in its undamaged capsule. At this period, adults can often see very plainly, and fancy their recovery near at hand, or, at least, all danger over.' Already, however, every part of the cornea has been more or less perforated by ulceration, the iris protrudes through all these apertures, so as to form what has sometimes been named the staphyloma raeemosum. In a very short time, not exceeding a few hours, the cap- sule of the lens is affected, and bursts like the cornea, when it is discharged either with, or without, a portion of the vitreous humour. At length, the suppuration subsides, and with it the protrusions of the iris, the opening in the cor- nea becoming closed with a brown, or bluish, opaque flat cicatrix. But, if in this destructive form of suppuration, nothing is done for the re- lief of the disease, the whole eyeball suppurates, the eyelids become concave, instead of convex, and the fissure between them closes for ever. In adults of feeble constitutions, when the case is not properly-treated, hut particularly in weak children, this excessively violent form of con- junctival inflammation and suppuration spreads with such rapidity, : that a considerable ge- neral disturbance of the system is«occasioned. Indeed, according to Mr. Travers, in the com- mon course of this vehement form of conjunc- tival suppurative ophthalrny, the system sympa- thizes; chilliness is succeeded by a hot and dry skin ; arid the pulse is frequent and hard. Yet, it is particularly pointed out by the army sur- geons, that one peculiarity of the Egyptian puru- lent ophthalrny is its being generally attended with little constitutional disturbance. When the above-described annihilation of the eyeball takes place, it always creates violent general indis- position in unhealthy weuk children, aird even leaves adults for a long while afterwards in an impaired state of health. According to Beer, who appears to have no idea of infection being concerned, the particular cause of this unfortunate extension of idiopathic glandular inflammation of the eyelids, botli in infants and adults, frequently depends altogether upon the foul atmosphere, in which they are residing, and hence, says he, the disorder is. as it were, endemic in lying-in and foundling hos- pitals, where the air is much contaminated by effluvia, from the lochia, the crowding together of many uncleanly persons, dirty clouts, &c. The unjustifiable folly of exposing-the eyes of new-born infants to every degree of light; a tedious labour, in which the child’s head is de- tained a long while in the vagina ; and roughly washing the eyes after birth with a coarse sponge; are other circumstances, supposed by Beer to be conducive to the origin of the complaint in new- born infants. The reality of many of these causes I regard myself with a great deal of doubt; and as for his conjecture, that sprinkling cold water on the head in baptism, while in a state of perspiration, may produce the complaint, it is too absurd to need any serious refutation. The dis- order, he says, is always more rapid and perilous in new-born infants than adults; (£. 1, j>. S18.) a remark, which does not agree with the state- ments usually made, if the Egyptian ophthalrny, as seen in the army, be comprehended. It is observed by Mr. Travers, that the highly con- tagious nature of the suppurative ophthalmia, whether in the mild, or vehement acute form, is sufficiently proved. For one person, affected with this disease above three months old, he thinks at least twenty are attacked under that age. “ The mother is the subject of fluor albus, or gonorrhoea, and the discharge is usualty per- ceived about the third day.” (Synopsis, §c. j). 97.) Some further observations on the causes of some of these severe modifications of glandu- lar inflammation of the eyelids will be introduced, after the prognosis and treatment have been con- sidered. This will be the more necessary, as the propagation of the disorder by infection is here entirely overlooked. According to Beer, whenever an idiopathic in- flammation of the glands of the eyelids attain* the severe forms, exhibited in the purulent ophthalrny of infants, the Egyptian ophthalrny, and gonorrhoeal ophthalrny, the prognosis must naturally be unfavourable, and this in a greater degree, the more the inflammation and suppura- tion have extended to the eyeball itself. The cases are still more unpromising, when they hap- pen, in poor, half-starved, distressed individuals* whom it is impossible completely to extricate from the circumstances, which either cause, or have a pernicious effect upon, the disease. Should an incidental ectropium not be immediately rec- tified, says Beer, it will continue until the end of the second stage, and even frequently longer, so as to require particular treatment. When at the period of suppuration, merely the layer of the conjunctiva, spread over the cornea, is destroyed, the prognosis, in* respect to the complete re- covery of the eyesight, is favourable, although I r i 111