DURA MATER. 393 they afterwards ceased, on the swelling having assumed a suitable position. 1 he symptoms were, doubtless, occasioned by the irritation, which the tumor suffered, in passing the inequalities around the opening, through which it protruded. The patient lived in this state nine years, having every now and then trances, in one of which, at- tended with hiccough and vomiting, she perished. As compression cannot be depended upon, the following safer method may be tried. It consists in exposing the tumor with a knife, which is cer- tainly preferable to caustics, the action of which is very tedious and painful, and can never be limited or extended with any degree of precision. A crucial incision may be made through the ' scalp covering the tumor, and the flaps dissected up, and reflected, so as to bring all the bony cir- cumference into view. Then with trephines re- peatedly applied, or with what would be better, ’Mr. Hey’s saws, all the margin of the bone ■ should be carefully removed. Now, if it be true, . that the vessels of the diploe are chiefly con- cerned in the supply of the diseased mass, we see, that this source of its growth must be de- stroyed by the foregoing proceeding. The tumor, thus disengaged on all sides, may be cut off with a scalpel; and such arteries as bleed much should be tied. Then, instead of applying caustic, as sometimes advised, perhaps, it would be better to remove every part of both layers of the dura mater immediately under the situation t of the excrescence. By this means, and the re- moval of the surrounding bone and diploe, all chance of the regeneration of the tumor would be prevented. In attempting the excision of a fungus of the dura mater, it is certainly an in- teresting point to know, whether the tumor has an intimate vascular connexion with the diploe, and pericranium, as asserted by Siebold, Wallher, and some other respectable authorities; though the importance of the information on this subject to 1 .he practitioner is somewhat lessened by his being •aware, that it is necessary always to begin with ;awing away the bone in the immediate vicinity ' >f the diseased mass. In the dissection of one ase, Walther found the pericranium thickened or a considerable extent around the disease, and ■losely connected with the tumor by vessels. f'bl. cit. p. 100.) When the tumor is sarcomatous, and its pedicle ' mall and narrow, as sometimes happens, one bould not hesitate to cut it off. This method is preferable to tying its base vith a ligature, a plan which could not be exe- uted, without dragging, and seriously injuring he dura mater. The excision is also preferable a caustics, which cause great pain, and very ' ften convulsions. In performing the extirpa- ion, we should remove the whole extent of the amor, and, if possible, its root, even though it iay extend as deeply as the internal layer of the ura mater. This step must not be delayed, for ic disease will continue to increase, so as to nett the brain, become incurable, and even lortal. It is to such decision, that we must im- pute the success, which attended the treatment of the Spaniard Avalos, of whom Marcus Aurelius Severinus makes mention. The above noble- man was afflicted with intolerable head-achs, which no remedy could appease. It was pro- posed to him to trepan the cranium, an opera- tion to which he consented. This proceeding brought into view, under the bone, a fungous excrescence, the destruction of which proved a permanent cure of the violent pains, which the disease had occasioned. It is not mentioned in this case, whether the internal layer of the dura mater was healthy, or not; but, there is founda- tion for believing, that if the extirpation of these tumors be undertaken in time, and bold measures be pursued, as in the instance just cited, success would often be obtained. Indeed, reason would support this opinion; for, when the disease is not extensive, it is necessary to expose a much smaller surface of the dura mater. It appears to me, however, that trepanning can never be warrantable, unless the disease be indi- cated by some external changes. I saw my late master, Mr. Ramsden, trepan a man for a mere fixed pain in one part of the head, on the sup- position, that there was a tumor under the bone; but no tumor was found, and the operation caused inflammation of the dura mater, and proved fatal. No doubt, in some cases, the hemorrhage will be considerable, as was exemplified in the in- stance in which Walther made an incision at the base of one of these fungi, in order to ascer- tain its nature: two pints of blood being lost from several vessels of very large size ere they could be secured; and the further use of the knife discontinued. M. Louis has described other tumors, which grow from the surface of the dura mater, when this membrane has been denuded, as after the application of the trephine. They only seem to differ from the preceding cases in not existing, before the opening was made in the skull. These cases are not to be confounded with the hernia cerebri. (Sec this Article.') See on the preced- ing subject, Memoire sur les Tumeurs fmgueuscs de la Dure-Mere, par M. Louis, in Mem. de I> Academic de Chirurgie, Tom. 5, 4to., or Tom. 13, 12mo. Eiicydvpe'die Methodique, Partie Chirurgicale, art. Dure-Mere. J. P. Kaufmann, de Tumore Capitis fungoso post Cartem Crunii exorto. Helmst. 1743. Lassus, Patlwlogie Chirurgicale, Tom. 1, p. 497. Edit. 1809. J. urtd C. IVenzel, uber die Sclnvammigen Aus- zvuchse uuf der aussern Hirnhaut. Fol. Mainz. 1811. In this work, the sentiments if M. Louis are espoused. Ph.v. Walther in Jourv.fur Chi- rurgie von C. Gn-ccfe, &!c. B. 1, P. 55, Sfr. 8w. Berlin. 1820. The lutter writer criticises the opinions of the Wenzels, and, of course, differs considcrablij from Louis on several points, some of which I have noticed in the foregoing pages. For an account of inflammation of the dura mater, See Head, Injuries oj.