FRACTURES. 481 the apex, or angle of which is beneath the ham. This last position, however, has been more par- ticularly recommended for fractures of the neck of the femur, though, if it be advantageous for them, I see no reason for not giving it a fair trial in other fractures of that bone. That Mr. Pott lost sight of certain advan- tages of the straight position^ that lie was blind to^the imperfections of the bent posture; and that he exaggerated the power, which we have, of relaxing all the muscles of a limb by position ; few reflecting surgeons of the present day will be inclined to deny. Were we to resign the privilege of thinking for ourselves, and implicitly to mould our opi- nions, according to any authority, however high, we should often fall into very avoidable errors. Were we to believe the literal sense of several passages in Mr. Pott’s remarks upon Fractures, we should suppose it possible and practicable to relax at once, by a certain posture of the limb, every muscle connected with a fractured bone. In the first vol. of his works, page 389, edit. 1783, he observes, in speaking of what must best answer the purpose of incapacitating the muscles from displacing the fracture: “ Is it not obvious, that putting the limb into such po- sition as shall relax the whole set of muscles, be- longing to, or in connexion with, the broken bone, must best answer such purpose ?” and, in the next page, “ What is the reason why no man, however superficially acquainted with his art, ever finds much trouble in setting a fractured os humeri? is it not because both patient and surgeon concur in putting the arm into a state of flexion, that is, into such a state as relaxes all the muscles surrounding the broken bone?” Also in page 393, he continues, “ Change of posture must be the remedy, or rather the plac- ing the limb in such manner as to relax all its muscles.” That to have all the muscles relaxed in cases of fracture would be desirable, were it also practicable, every one will admit; but the pos- sibility of accomplishing it, so long as different muscles have different uses, different situations, and different attachments to the bones, every one must grant to be no more than visionary. For instance, do not the patient and surgeon, in the case of fractured os humeri, adverted to above, rather concur in putting the fibres of the triceps and anconeus into a state of tension, at the same moment that they relax the biceps and brachialis intern us? The position of the fractured os femoris, says Mr. Pott, should be on its outside, resting on the great trochanter; the patient’s whole body should be inclined to the same side; the knee should be in a middle state between perfect flex- ion, or extension, or half-bent; the leg and foot, lying on their outside also, should be well sup- ported by smooth pillows, and should be rather higher in their level, than the thigh ; one very broad splint of deal, hollowed out and well covered with wool, rag, or tow, should be placed under the thigh, from above the trochanter quite below the knee; and another somewhat shorter should extend from the groin below the kriec on the in- or father in this posture on the upper side. ie. bandage should be of the eighteen-tail .ln * ar"l when the bone has l>oen set, and the . ig well placed on the pillow, it should not without necessity, (which necessity in this me- thod will seldom occur) be ever moved from it again, until the fracture is united ; and this union will always be accomplished, in more or less time, in proportion as the limb shall have been more or less disturbed. (Pott.) Here only two splints are mentioned; the surgeons of the present day usually employ four. After placing the patient in a proper position, the necessary extension is to be made. Then the under-splint, having upon it a broad soft pad, and an eighteen-tailed bandage, is to be laid under the thigh, from the great trochanter to the outer condyle. The surgeon, before applying the soap plaster, laying down the tails of the bandage, and putting on the other three splints, is to take care that the fracture lies as evenly as possible. In the position for a fractured thigh, Mr. Pott, we find, directs the leg and foot to be rather higher in their level, than the thigh; with what particular design, I have not myself been able to make out. Whoever meditates upon the con- sequence of elevating the leg and foot above the level of the thigh, in the bent position, will know, that it is to twist the condyles of the os femoris more outward, than is natural. When a patient is placed, according to Mr. Pott’s di- rection, upon a common bed, the middle soon sinks so much that the leg becomes situated very considerably higher than the thigh, and I am disposed to think, that this is one cause, why so many broken thighs are united in so de- formed a manner, that the foot remains perma- nently distorted outward. The great propensity of the triceps, and other muscles to produce this effect, may also serve to explain the frequency of the deformity. It is not merely the depres- sion of the middle of the bed which is disadvan- tageous: as the weight of the patient’s body falls more upon one side of the bed, than the other, in the bent position of the limb, unless the sacking be tight and the mattress very firm, it happens, that such a declivity is formed, as to render it exceedingly difficult, if not impracti- cable, to make the patient continue duly upon his side. It cannot be enjoined too forcibly, that fractured thighs should always be laid upon beds not likely to sink much. When this happens, no rational dependence can be put in the efficacy of the bent position, and, as Desault has ex- plained, the same thing is hurtful also in the straight posture. The most enthusiastic advocates for the bent position must allow, that it leaves the leg and loot too moveable and unsupported, and, that though it may relax the muscles, which have the most power to disturb the coaptation of a frac- tured thigh, it yet leaves a mass of muscle un- relaxed, quite sufficient to displace the ends of the bone. Hence, practitioners should endea- vour to improve the apparatus employed, so that it may make a permanent resistance to the ac- tion of the muscles, and in the straight position such resistance may certainly be practised with most effect and convenience. The whole tenor of Mr. Pott’s observations on fractures would lead one to suppose, that from the moment a muscle is partially relaxed, it be- comes incapable of acting on, or displacing a fracture. But, if this were correct, (which it