# 1016 TENDONS. of relaxation. For this purpose, tlie leg must be kept half bent upon the thigh. U. By apply- ing methodical pressure to the muscles; me- thodical, because it is to operate on the fleshy portion of the muscles, and not on the tendon, the ends of which, being depressed by it, would be separated from each other, and, instead of growing together, would unite to the adjacent parts. The pressure should also operate, so as to prevent the ends of the tendon from inclining either to the right or left. J. L Petit seems entitled to the honour of having first devised the plan of treating the rup- tured, or divided tendo Achillis, by keeping the leg and fool in a particular posture, with the aid of an apparatus. Seeing that the extension of the foot brought the ends of the tendon into con- tact, it occurred to him, that such extension should be maintained during the whole of the treatment, in order to bring about a permanent union. This aim is, in fact, the common basis of all the numerous methods of cure, which have been since recommended. Dr. Alexander Monro, primus, happened to rupture his tendo Achillis. When the accident took place, he heard a loud crack, as if he had suddenly broken a nut with his heel, and he ex- perienced a sensation as if the heel of his shoe had made a hole in the floor. This sensation, he says, has also been observed by others, though some have complained of a smart stroke, like what would be produced by a stone or cane. Immediately suspecting what had happened, the doctor extended his left foot, in which the occur- rence had taken place, as strongly as he could with his right hand, while with the left he pressed the muscles of the calf downward, so as to bring the ends of the broken tendon as near together as possible. In this position he sat, until two surgeons came to his assistance. They applied compresses, and a bent board to the upper part of the foot and forepart of the leg, both which they kept, as nearly as possible, in a straight line, by a tight bandage made with a long roller. But as this mode of dressing soon became very uneasy, it was changed for the following one. A foot-sock, or slipper, was made, of double quilted ticking, from the heel of which a belt or strap projected, of sufficient length to come up over the calf of the leg. A strong piece, of the same materials, was prepared of sufficient breadth to surround the calf, and this was fastened with lacings. On the back part of this was a buckle, through which the strap of the foot-sock was passed, so that the foot could be extended, and the calf brought down at pleasure. The leg and foot were wrapt up in soft flannel, fumigated with benzoin, and the bandage was kept on day and night, the belt being made tighter when the doctor was about to go to sleep, and loosened when he was awake, and on his guard. For a fortnight he did not move his foot and leg at all, but was conveyed in a chair on castors from one part of the room to another. After this, he began to move the ankle-joint, but in such a gentle manner as not to give any pain. The degree of motion was gradually increased, ns the tendon became capable of bearing it, care being this way for half an hour at a time. In a few days the hollow, between the separated ends of the tendon, became imperceptible, though the part continued soft much longer. It became, how- ever, gradually thicker arid harder, until a knot was at last formed in it, apparently of a cartilagi- nous nature. Though this was, at first, as large as a middling plum, and gradually became softer and smaller, yet it did not disappear entirely. Hav- ing occasion to go out six weeks after the acci- dent, the doctor put on a pair of shoes, with heels two inches high, arid contrived a steel ma- chine to keep his foot in the proper position. This machine, however, he afterwards changed for another, made of the same materials as the former. It was not till five months after the accident, that he thought proper to lay aside all assistance, and to put the strength of the tendon to a trial. (See Monro's Works, p. 661.) Both in a wound and rupture in the tendo Achillis, the ancient method of using a suture, for keeping the ends of the tendon in contact, is at present quite exploded, and position of the limb is the grand agent, by which the cure is now universally accomplished. The following was Desault’s method, which, though it was ex- pressly designed to fill all the above-mentioned indications, may not be a more valuable practical plan than what was adopted by Dr. Monro. After the ends of the tendon had been brought into contact, by moderate flexion of the knee, and complete extension of the foot, Desault used to fill up the hollows, on each side of the tendon, with soft lint and compresses. The roller, ap- plied to the limb, made as much pressure on these compresses as on the tendon; and hence this part could not be depressed too much against the subjacent parts. JDesault next took a com- press, about two inches broad, and long enough to reach from the toes to the middle of the thigh, and placed it under the foot, over the back of the leg and lo>ver part of the thigh. He then began to apply a few circles of a roller Tound the end of the foot, so as to fix the lower extremity of the longitudinal compress. After covering the whole foot with the roller, he used to make the bandage describe the figure of 8> passing it under the foot, and across the place where the tendon was ruptured; and the method was finished by encircling the limb upward, with the roller, as far as the upper end of the longitudinal compress. (See Monro's Works. Eucyclo- pedc Methodique, article Acliillc, tendon dc, and Memoire stir la Division dtt Tendon d'Acliillc, in CEnvrcs Chirurgicales dc Desault, par Bichat, T. 1, p. 306.) A rupture of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg would require nearly the same kind of treatment as a fracture of the patella. However, pressure exactly on the broken part of the tendon should be avoided, the limb should be kept extended, and somewhat raised; a bandage might be put round the thigh, and an- tiphlogistic treatment be at first adopted. In the course of two or three weeks, the surgeon should cause the joint to be very gently moved, without any muscular exertion on the part of the patient himself. When the tendon of the triceps ex* i ...... rtill,! t! in llt/% Kml. In In Kn l'i'llt