992 SUPPURATION, state provided its proper temperature be pre- served, and it be kept exposed to the air, which promotes the change. 1 he opinion, that suppuration is a process, analogous to glandular secretion, was at first hastily rejected by many, who were swayed by the fact, that no pus is ever found blended with the blood in the circulating system. By this mode of reasoning, however, such thinkers must be led to deny the universally received and undoubted doctrine, that the bile is a secretion; and, yet, it is well known, that nothing like this fluid can be detected in an analysis of the blood, and, indeed, a very small quantity would be suf- ficient to tinge the whole mass of circulating blood with a yellow colour, the same as we see in cases of jaundice. No one would wish to defend the idea of there being either pus, or bile, actually in the circulation ; but, only the matter, or mo- difications of the matter, which, by the combina- tions, or whatever changes, we may choose to term them, taking place in the secreting vessels, and by their operations are converted into one of the particular fluids in question. Violence done to parts is one of the great causes of suppuration; but, simply, violence does not always occasion it. The violence must be followed by a prevention of a cure in a more simple way, viz. by a restoration of the struc- ture, so as to carry on the animal functions of the part. The parts must be kept long enough in that state into which they were put by the violence. Or, what is somewhat similar to this, the violence must be attended with death in a part, as, in many bruises, all mortifications and all sloughs, in consequence of the application of caustic, which, when the dead parts separate, leave internal surfaces exposed. {Hunter.) As every injury, or effect of outward violence, under the above circumstances, is more or less exposed to the surrounding air, the application of air to internal surfaces has been assigned as a cause of suppuration; but, certainly, the air has not the least effect on parts, circumstanced as above, for a stimulus would arise from a wound, were it even contained in a vacuum. In cir- cumscribed abscesses, the air cannot possibly get to the parts, so as to have any share in making them suppurate. In cases of emphysema, when the air is dif- fused over the whole body, no suppuration is the consequence, unless an exposure, or imperfection of some internal surface should be made, for the purpose of allowing the air to escape. A stronger proof, that it is not the admission of air, which makes parts inflame, is, that the cells in the soft parts of birds, and many of the cells and canals of their bones, communicating with the lungs, and always containing air, never inflame; but if these cells are exposed in an unnatural way, then the stimulus of imperfection is given, these cavities then inflame, and their surfaces either form adhesions together, or produce pus. {Hunfcr.) When the interior of an .abscess is examined, the cavity, which contained the matter, is ob- served to be lined with a smooth, membranous- looking substance, which is of a whitish ash- Ibis sac, or cyst, seems in general to adhere by a vascular union to the surrounding cellular membrane, which is itself likewise denser in tex- ture, and more vascular, than in the natural state, (Thomson's Lectures, p. 310.) its cells being closed by coagulating lymph, elfused in conse- quence of that species of inflammation, which Mr. Hunter termed the adhesive. Thus by the formation of a cyst, and the effusion of coa- gulating lymph in the cellular substance around the abscess, the collection of matter is bounded, and cannot become diffused, as it otherwise would do, in the communicating cavities of the cellular membrane, like the water in oedema. Something, like this diffusion of pus, seems to occur in erysipelas phlegmonoides. “ But, in this case, (says Professor Thomson) the vitality of greater, or less portions of the cellular sub- stance is destroyed, the deadened portions are converted into dirty, whitish, ash-colourcd sloughs, and it becomes extremely difficult to say, whether any part of the pus contained in the deadened cellular membrane has been formed in the cells, in which it is contained, or has been absorbed into these cells, after being se- parated from the parietes of the cavities contain- ing the sloughs themselves.” (Lectures, Sec. p. 310.) There can be no doubt, that, after an abscess has received a membranous lining, or cyst, the secretion of pus is continued from the surface of the latter part entirely, as well as whatever de- gree of absorption of the same fluid happens to be going on. In fact, the cysts must be both secreting and absorbing surfaces. The circum- stances which leave no doubt of this point, are the frequent, sudden or gradual removal of verv large manifest collections of matter; the con- tinual changes occurring in the quantity and consistence of the pus; and the speedy filling of the cavity with purulent matter again after the first contents of the abscess have been dis- charged. Another thing, which is yet a subject of con- troversy, is, whether suppuration ever happens unpreceded by inflammation? Professor Thom- son, of Edinburgh, believes, that the affirmative opinion on this point was first suggested by De Haen, of Vienna; but, he thinks, that much of the difference of sentiment in this matter has proceeded from the vague “ notions, entertained with regard to the symptoms, which necessarily characterize the stale of inflammation, and also with regard to the properties, by which pus is to be distinguished from other animal fluids. Ac- cordingly, in almost all the examples, which De Haen has adduced to prove the formation of pus, without the previous existence of inflamma- tion, he has himself occasion to remark the ex- udation of coagulating lymph, and the existence of preternatural adhesions; phenomena, which we now know are produced by that state, which Mr. Hunter has denominated adhesive inflamma- tion.” But, De Haen uses the term inflamma- tion to express that state, which we denominate ulceration, or ulcerative absorption ; for, in speak- ing of the cases of suppuration, which he has ad- T l 1 dueed, he observes, that, , i in many of them no r rnncimmlinri r>f ritliclnn^n Cdlid