ANEURISM. 157 of the three last lingers from gangrene. (Sec Scm-fitt on Aneurism, p. 412, Ed. S2, and Jourv. de Med. T. 40, Mars 1811.) There are two modes of operating for axillary aneurisms ; one by cutting below the clavicle, in order to take up the axillary artery itself; the other, bv making the wound above the bone, for the purpose of securing the subclavian artery at tin; point where it emerges from behind the ante- rior scalenus muscle. The first of these methods has been attempted by Desault, Pelletan, Mr. Keate, Mr. Chamber- laine, &c. It was in a case of wound of the ax- illary artery, that Desault operated. An inci- sion, six inches long, was made below the exter- nal third of the clavicle; two thoracic arteries cut were immediately tied ; the two lower thirds of the great pectoral muscle were next divided with a bistoury guided on a director: a large quantity of coagulated blood was now discharged; and the artery was directly taken hold of, and tied, together with the brachial plexus of the nerves. The arm mortified, and the patient died. This case, we must agree with Scarpa, was not a fair trial of the operation, inasmuch as the inclu- sion of the plexus of nerves in the ligature was an improper measure, and must have promoted the occurrence of sphacelus. It seems also pro- bable from the account, that the vein was likewise tied; another serious and objectionable proceed- ing. Besides, it is worthy of notice, that the case was a wound of the axillary artery, attended with a copious effusion of blood in the cellular mem- brane. In all examples of this kind, gangrene is more readily induced, than when the case is a mere circumscribed aneurismal tumor. (See CEuvrcs Cliir. de Desault par Bichat, Tome 2, p. 553.) As for Pelletan’s example, it hardly de- serves recital, because the operation in fact was not achieved. His colleagues objected to divid- ing the pectoral muscle; a random thrust was made with a needle and ligature; but, the artery was not included, and the experiment was not re- peated. (See Clinique Chirurgicale, Tom. 2, Obs. 7, v 49.) In a case of axillary aneurism, which had ac- tually burst, and the hemorrhage from which could only be stopped by pressing the artery against the first rib, Mr. Keate, the surgeon-ge- neral, practised the following operation, which was attended with completely successful conse- quences. This gentleman determined on taking up the artery, above the diseased and ruptured part, in its passage over the first rib. Accord- ingly, lie made an incision obliquely downwards, divided the fibres of the pectoral muscle, that were in his way, and, when lie came to the ar- tery, passed a curved, blunt-pointed, silver needle, armed double, as he conceived under the artery, and tied two of the ends. After a careful ex- amination, finding that the artery pulsated be- low the ligature, he determined on passing an- other ligature higher up, and nearer to the cla- vicle : he, therefore, passed the needle more deeply, so as evidently to include the artery. In a few days the swelling of the arm began to sub- side, the wound suppurated, and the ligatures came away with tiic dressings. The arm after- wards recovered its feeling, and the patient re- gained, in a great measure, the entire motion of the shoulder, &c. (See Med. Review and Ma- gazine for 1801.) Mr. Keate’s operation's objectionable, inas- much as it was a dive made with a needle, and at- tended with great danger of wounding and tying parts, which should be left undisturbed. Mr. R. Chamberlaine, of Kingston, Jamaica, took up the axillary artery below the clavicle, in a patient, who had an aneurism in the left axilla, occasioned by a wound with a cutlass on the 5th of October, 1814. On the 10th of January, the tumor had considerably increased, and was less compressible, than it had been when first seen by Mr. Chamberlaine. The operation was done on the 17th of January, 1815: “ a transverse incision, of three inches in length, was made through the skin and platysma myoides, along and upon the lower edge of the clavicle, three fingers’ breadth from the sternal end of that bone, and terminating about an inch from the acromion scapulae. This incision divided a small artery, which was imme- diately secured. A second incision, of three inches in length, was also made obliquely through the integuments over the deltoid and pectoral muscles, meeting the first nearly in the centre. The cellular membrane and fat, lying between them at the upper part, were now removed. The next step consisted in detaching the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, and taking away the fat and cellular membrane lying over the sub- clavian vessels. The artery was now brought into view, and its pulsations made it clearly dis- tinguishable from the contiguous parts.” After several ineffectual efforts, Mr. Chamberlaine suc- ceeded in conveying a ligature under it, by- means of an eye-probe, curved for the purpose, and the point of which was brought up with the aid of a pair of forceps. On the 22d of February, the wound was completely healed; the aneurismal tumor reduced to the size of a turkey’s egg, and very solid; the arm smaller, than its fellow, but its muscular power improving. (See Medico Chir.Tians. Vo1. 6, ]>. 128, &;c.) Mr. Chamber- laine expresses his conviction, that the operation would have been much facilitated, had he been furnished with the instruments described in Mr. Ramsden’s work for passing the ligature under the artery. The subclavian artery might be got at below the clavicle, as follows : the surgeon is to make an incision, through the integuments, about an inch from the sternal end of this bone. The cut is to run in the direction towards the acromion, deviating a little downward from a line parallel to that of the clavicle. This wound will bring into view some fibres of the great pectoral muscle originating from the last-mentioned bone. These are next to be divided. Some cellular substance will be found underneath, which is to be carefully, raised with a pair of dissecting for- ceps, and cut. The operator will thus arrive at the great subclavian vein, and cephalic vein mut- ing with it. Under the subclavian vein, and a little further backward, more under the clavicle, the subclavian artery may be felt and tied. (See C. Hell's Operative Suigcri/, 1 <■/. 2, 370.) On the whole, however, I think, Mr. Hodg- son’s directions for the performance ol this ope- ration, are the best which have been given : A semilunar incision through the integuments, which