AMPUTATION. ported by two cross bandages, and a common linen roller, applied spirally round the limb, from above downward. The first turn of the loLer, indeed, should be fixed round the pelvis, while the lower circles secure the cross bandages, often called the Malta-cross, over the end of the stump. It is also an excellent method to leave some little interspaces between the plasters, and in summer to keep the linen bandage-; constantly wet with cold water. In this way, any discharge will readily escape, and the parts, being kept cool, will be less disposed to hemorrhage and in- flammation. I am completely of opinion with Mr. Alanson, that the elastic woollen cap, commonly placed over all the bandages and dressings, if not put on with a great deal of care, has a tendency to push the skin backward from the extremities of the stump, and as it must also heat the part, its employment ought apparently to be discon- tinued. If possible, the dressings should never be re- moved before the fourth day, not reckoning.the one on which the amputation is performed. Monro set down the fifth, sixth, or seventh day, as generally soon enough for this purpose. He allows, however, that, if the smell of the wound should become offensive, the outer dressings may be removed sooner. Even when the dressings are to be taken away, it will frequently be found useful not to remove one strip of plaster; but, the stump must be made clean, and any dis- charge washed away. These and other valuable precepts, derived from the eminent Dr. A. Monro senior, are worthy their great source, and the correctness of them promises to be acknowledged for ever. The manner of renewing the dressings of stumps, is indeed a very important business, which should never be entrusted to mere novices; for in taking off the straps of sticking plaster, if great care be not taken, the slight and newly formed adhesions may be torn asunder. Thus as Mr. A. C. Hutchinson has remarked, if the strap be pulled off by holding one end of it at nearly a right angle with the adhering part, the flap will be raised up with it, and thus a separa- tion of the newly united parts will be produced. “ My plan (says he) is to reflect the raised end of the strap close down upon the adhering part, and to bring it gently forward with one hand, while the removing part of the strap is followed by two fingers of the other placed upon the skin, &c. and when one end is detached from its adhesion, as far as the line of incision on the face of the stump, in like manner the other end is brought down and wholly removed.” (Pract. Ohs. p. 46.) In order to facilitate the removal of the plasters, and save the patient a great deal of pain, I have always followed tiie plan of letting warmish water drop over them from a sponge for a few minutes previously to the attempt to remove them. In the early part of the treatment, it is also a valuable rule never to have every strap of plaster off at once, so as to leave the flesh quite unsup- ported. Some skill and care are also invariably necessary, in order to avoid pulling away the li<ratures at the same time with the other dress- b ings. At the end of five or six days, the surgeon may begin to try, in a very gentle manner, whether any of the ligatures are loose; ob- serving rather to twist, than suddenly pull them directly outward. However, he should not use the smallest force, nor persist if the trial create pain. One would hardly try, whether the liga- ture on the main artery were loose, before the eighth or ninth day. If minute ligatures made of dentists silk be employed, and both their ends cut off close to the knot, of course, this delicate business of trying to get rid of the irritation of these foreign bodies is entirely superseded. Though, in the above account, I have directed the edges of the wound, after the amputation of the thigh, to be brought together in such a way, that the wound shall appear as a line across the face of the stump, yet there are instances, in which the bone seems most easily and conve- niently covered, by making the line of the wound in a perpendicular direction. Mr. B. Bell, indeed, generally approved of it, as affording a ready outlet for matter; it is like- wise directed by Mr. C. Bell, (Op. Surgery, Vol. 1;) by Roux (Mem. sur la Reunion immediate de la Plaie apres l’Amp. p. 11;) and by Dr. Hennen (On Military Surgert/, p. 265. Ed. 2.) On the other hand, Mr. C. Hutchinson ob- jects to it, because it seems to him, that when a stump, thus put up, is laid on a pillow, the pressure tends to separate and open the lower part of the wound. (Pract. Ohs. on Surgery, p. 37.) It is curious to remark, however, that the thing, which leads this gentleman to disapprove of the plan, is one which would be urged in its favour by Roux and some other surgeons, who actually take the precaution of never closing the lower angle of the wound, in order that whatever discharge occurs may find a ready outlet. (iWm. cit. p. 14.) Mr. Alanson objected to this method, asserting- that the cicatrix afterwards became situated imme- diately over the end of the bone, the pressure of which was very likely to make the part ulcerate. However, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, a thigh was some time ago amputated by Sir L. Harvey, and the edges of the stump were brought to- gether in the perpendicular direction, yet, ac- cording to all accounts, a better stump could not have been made. In a case, in which I assisted Mr. Ramsden at Christ’s Hospital, when an at- tempt was made to put up the wound in the common manner, the bone seemed to make con- siderable pressure against the skin, which did not happen, when the line of the wound was made in the other direction, which of course was immediately adopted. Mr. Hey has noticed this subject as follows: the integuments and muscles may be brought into contact by press- ing either the anterior and posterior parts, or the sides of the thigh, together. The former method, by the gradual retraction of the pos- terior muscles, causes the integuments of the anterior part of the stump to cover more com- pletely the extremity of the bone. The latter method causes the integuments and muscles to meet each other the more readily, and, therefore, is to be preferred, when the quantity of soft parts preserved is somewhat deficient. (Practical Observations on Surgery, p. 533. Edit. 2.) From the observations of another modern writer, who disapproves of making line of