EAR. 402 his ear, better than any thing said in a loud man- ner. The opinions, delivered by writers on the causes of this affection, are only uncertain con- jectures. I he local treatment recommended consists of injecting into the meatus auditorius, emollient decoctions, or warm milk, or intro- ducing into the passage a dossil of soft cot- ton, dipped in oil of sweet almonds. Nothing certain is known respecting the proper consti- tutional treatment, as must be clear from our ignorance of the causes of this form of disease of the ear. Hardness of hearing appears sometimes to be caused by a chronic thickening of the membrane of the tympanum; and it is alleged, that there are cases of this description, which proceed from syphilis, and require mercury. An issue in the arm nearest the affected ear, and emollient and slightly stimulant injections, are likewise com- mended. When the tympanum was so consi- derably thickened, that there was no chance of restoring it to a healthy state, Portal questioned whether it might not be advisable to make a small opening in it? (Precis de Chir. Pratique, T. 2, p. 4SO.) This operation, which is said to have been first suggested by Cheselden, will be considered in the ensuing section. Morgagni found the cavity of the tympanum intersected by numerous membranes, which im- peded the movements of the ossieula. (Epist. an. 6, id-) Meckel does not mention any example of a deficiency of all the ossieula. (Hamit), ties Pa- thol. Anat. B. 1, p. 402.) Mersanni, however, found the incus wanting, (Bonet Sepulch. T. 1, seel. 1.9, Ohs. 4, § 1.) Caldani, the malleus and incus. (Epist. ad Haller, T.6, />. 142.) The latter case was unattended with any bad effect on the hearing ; the first with deafness. In a deaf child, three years of age, Bailly found the ossi- cula of only i their proper size. (Bouei Sepalcr. T. 1, sect. 19, Ohs. 4, § 2.) In an example, where the fenestra rotunda was obstructed, Co- tunni found the ossieula twice as large as natural. (He lubyrinthi auris cuiileniis, § 72, and Mechel’s Hanab. des Pathol. Aunt. B I, p. 402.) A case, in which all the ossieula were wanting, is now on record. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 38, />. 114- ) 11. Obstruction of the Eustachian Tnhe. This is often a cause of a considerable degree of deafness, because it is necessary for perfect hearing, that air should be conveyed from the mouth through this passage into the cavity of the tympanum, which now can no longer hap- pen. A degree of deafness generally attends a se- vere cold, which is accounted for by the Eusta- chian tube being obstructed with thickened mu- cus. Mr. Saunders tells us, that the obstruc- tion most frequently arises from syphilitic ulcers in the throat, or sloughing in the cynanche ma- ligna. The deafness comes on when such sores are healed, that is, when the obstruction is com- plete. The descent of a nasal polypus into the pharynx, and enlarged tonsils, have also been known to close the tube. (/’• 42.) When the Eustachian tube is obstructed, the patient cannot feel the membrana tympani crackle, as it were, in his ear, on blowing forci- bly with his nose and mouth stopped. Previous ulceration, or disease, of the throat will some- times facilitate the diagnosis. When the Eustachian tube is obstructed with mucus, it has been proposed to employ injections, which are to be thrown by means of a syringe and catheter, into the guttural orifice of that canal. This operation, however, is alleged to be always attended with trouble, and, when tlx? os spongiosum inferius happens to be situated near the floor of the orbit, the introduction of any instrument, like a female catheter, would be impracticable. (Richerand Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 131, edit. 2.) Mr. A. Cooper had noticed, that hearing was only impaired, not lost, when suppurations in the tympanum had injured, and even destroyed the membrana tympani, and that the degree of deaf- ness by no means equalled what resulted from an obstruction of the Eustachian tube. Hence, when the tube was permanently obliterated, he conceived, that a small puncture of the membrana tympani might be the means of enabling the pa- tient to hear. This gentleman reports four cases, in which the experiment was made with success. The operation consists in introducing an in- strument, resembling a hydrocele trocar, but curved, into the meatus auditorius externus, and pushing it through ihe anterior and inferior part of the membrana tympani; a place ren- dered most eligible, on account of the situation of the chorda tympani and manubrium of the malleus, parts which should be left uninjured. The instrument must not be introduced far, lest it wound the vascular lining of the tympanum, and cause a temporary continuance of the deaf- ness, by an effusion of blood. W hen the punc- ture is made, in proper cases, and in a judicious manner, hearing is immediately restored. A small hole in the membrana tympani now con- veys the air into the cavity of the tympanum, answering the same purpose as the Eustachian tube. The surgeon will be able to operate with more ease, if he take care to lessen the curvature of the meatus auditorius by drawing upward the external ear. There is some chance of a relapse in conse- quence of the opening closing up. This consi- deration led Richerand to propose making the aperture with caustic, so as to destroy a part of the membrane. (N-srgr. Chir. T. 2, p. 132, edit. 2.) The suggestion is not likely to be adopted, on account of the inconveniences of applying caustic within the ear. Mr. Saunders is an advocate for making the opening large. This gentleman instantaneously restored the hearing of one patient who had been deaf thirty years, in consequence of a destruction of a part of his palate by syphilis (/’. 45.) In an in- stance where a young man had been deaf for eight years, apparently from obstruction of the Eustachian tube by swellings and disease about the throat. Paroisse also restored the hearing directly, by perforating the anterior and inferior part of the tympanum. (Opuscules cle Chir. f. 309, Sir. Pm i-, 1806.) 1 he practice has also been successfully adopted by Michaelis in one case, and Hunold has tried it in a vast number of examples, two-thirds of which succeeded. (Dirt. i jl| [l-y if i