HYDROPHTHALMIA. 689 r drophthalmia is at least as discouraging as that made by Scarpa; for the rapidity of the disease is said to be such as leaves scarcely a possibility of benefit being effected by any mode of treat- ment, and the case usually terminates in a car- cinomatous exophthalmia, and death. These melancholy events are said, by Beer, to be acce- lerated by paracentesis of the eye, however exe- cuted ; and he thinks, that the sole chance of stopping the progress of the disease depends upon an endeavour being made in its very com- mencement to improve the general health, though he owns, that success is to be regarded as a very rare and fortunate occurrence. The same author has no faith in any local treatment, and, when the disease is advanced, he considers the extirpation of the eye the only rational ex- pedient, though very precarious in its result. (Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 628, 629.) The main point, on which Scarpa differs from Beer, is that respecting the effects of discharging the humours of the eye; a practice, which the former represents as useful, even in cases where the hydrophthalmia combines an accumulation both of the aqueous and vitreous humours. In former times, says Scarpa, paracentesis of the eye- ball was greatly extolled. Nuck, one of the pro- moters of this operation, punctured the eye with a trocar, exactly in the centre of the cornea. (De Duct. Ocul. Aquos, p. 120. ) It has since been thought better to puncture the sclerotica about .wo lines from the junction of this membrane vith the cornea, that such a small quantity of he vitreous humour may be more easily dis- charged at the same time with the aqueous, as nay be deemed adequate to effect a diminution n the morbific enlargement of the eye-ball. According to Scarpa, paracentesis of the eye, .one so as merely to discharge the humours, an never be a means of curing dropsy of the ye, unless the puncture, made with the trocar, xcite inflammation and suppuration, and after- wards a concretion of the membranes composing he eye-ball. Indeed Nuck relates, that in a oung man at Breda, he was obliged to punc- ure the eye five several times; that, on'the fth time of doing this, it was necessary to suck arough the cannula of the trocar, in order to vacuate the greatest possible quantity of the itreous humour; and, lastly, that it seemed roper to introduce a plate of lead between the /elids and eye-ball, for the purpose of making mtinual pressure on the eye, in its empty shri- lled state. In a woman at the Hague, he rice punctured the eye in vain; and she sub- itted, two or three times afterwards, to the me operation, but with what degree of success not specified. Scarpa has no difficulty in he- wing, that a radical cure of the dropsy has metimes been accomplished by means of the meture, after the trocar, and other similar hard bstances, have been repeatedly introduced into ® eye, through the cannula of that instrument; >t this success can never be attributed to the ere evacuation of the superabundance of the treous and aqueous humour; though it may 1 referred to that circumstance, conjoined with p irritation produced by the cannula, or the nts with which Mauchart kept open the wound. Scarpa condemns the plan of making a circular incision through the sclerotica, as disadvan- tageous, and even dangerous. In fact, this circular recision, is constantly followed by the most aggravated symptoms, particularly frequent hemorrhages, an accumulation of grumous blood at the bottom of the eye-ball, vehement inflam- mation of the eye, eyelids, and head, obstinate vomitings, convulsions, delirium, and the most imminent danger to the patient’s life. Such modern surgeons, as have faithfully published the results of their practice on this point, among whom, after M. Louis, (Mem. do l’Acad, de Chir. T. 13, p- 289, 290); Marchan, (Journal dc Med. dc Paris, Janvier, 1770; Stir deux Exophthalmic*, on grosseurs contrc nature du Globe dc I'QZil); and Terras, (Ibidem, Mars, 1776; Sur l’Hydroplithalmie) ; have ingenu- ously declared that, after performing the circular recision of dropsical eyes in the sclerotica, they had the greatest motives for repenting of what they had done. Scarpa prefers making a circular section, about three lines in breadth, at the sum- mit or centre of the cornea of the dropsical eye, as directed by Celsus, in cases of staphyloma. Whether the cornea be transparent or not, as sight is irrevocably lost, the surgeon must introduce a small bistoury across the apex, or middle of the cornea, at one line and a half from its central point; and then, by pushing the in- strument from one towards the other canlhus of the eye, he will cut the lower part of the cornea in a semicircular manner. The segment of the cornea being next elevated with the forceps, the operator is to turn the edge of the knife up- ward, and complete the work by a circular re- moval of as much of the centre of the cornea as is equal to three lines in diameter. Through this circular opening, made in the centre of the cor- nea, the surgeon may, by means of gentle pres- sure, discharge as much of the superabundant humours in the eye, as is requisite to make the eye-ball diminish, and return into the orbit, so as to be covered by the eyelids. As for the rest of the humour lodged in the eye, it will gradu- ally escape of itself, through the circular opening- in the cornea, without any more pressure being made. Until the appearance of the inflammation, that is, until the third or fifth day after the operation, the dressings are to consist of the application of a compress of dry lint, supported by a bandage. As soon as the inflammation and tumefaction invade the eye operated on, and the eyelids, the surgeon is to employ such internal remedies as are calculated to moderate the progress of in- flammation ; and he is to cover the eyelids with a bread and milk poultice, which must be re- newed at least once every two hours. It is a very frequent result, both in the staphyloma and dropsy of the eye, that, on the first appearance of inflammation, the eye-ball, on which the operation has been done, augments and protrudes again from the eyelids, in the same way as be- fore the operation. In this circumstance, Scarpa directs the projecting part of the eye-ball to be covered with a piece of fine linen, smeared with a liniment of oil and wax, or the yolk ot an egg and oleum hyperici; the application of the bread and milk poultice being continued over this other dressing. Scarpa next states, that when the