SUPPURATION. 934 appeared to be ilaky substances. The precipi- tate by ammonia had exactly the same appear- ance. lhe same appearances were seen, when the above kinds ot animal matter were dissolved by caustic potassa and precipitated with the mu- riatic acid. A flaky substance, void of any re- gular lortn, composed each precipitate. (Ilun- ter.} tor additional observations on the tests of pus, and an account of those suggested by Dr. Young, and Grasmeyer, see the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vol, 1, p. 32, Ed. 4. Pus does not irritate the particular surface which secretes it, though it may be very irrita- ting to any other. Hence, no suppurating sur- face of any specific kind, can be kept up by its own matter; if this had not been the case, no sore of a specific quality, or producing matter of an irritating kind, could ever have been healed. This is similar to every other secretion of stimu- lating fluids, as the bile, tears, &c. which fluids do not stimulate their own glands, or ducts, but are capable cf stimulating any other part of the body. ( Hunter.) Whenever a real disease attacks, either the suppurating surface, or the constitution, the pro- duction of true pus ceases, and the fluid becomes changed in some measure, in proportion to these morbid alterations. In general it becomes thin- ner and more transparent, and it partakes more of the nature of the blood, as is the case in most other secretions under similar circumstances.— Sanies is the term usually applied by surgeons, to pus, in this degenerated state. This un- healthy sort of matter has more of the serum, and, frequently more of the coagulating lymph in it, and less of the combination, which renders it coagulable by a solution of muriate of ammonia. It has also a greater proportion of the extraneous parts of the blood, which are soluble in water, such as salts; and it has a greater tendency, than true pus, to become putrid. Such un- healthy matter may even be irritating to the surface which produces it. The discharge, when of an irritating sort, is more stimulating to the adjoining parts with which it comes in contact, than to its own se- creting surface. In this manner, it frequently produces excoriation of the skin, and ulceration. Thus the tears excoriate the skin of the cheek, in consequence of the quantity of salts which the3r contain.’ From this effect, matter has been ealled Corrosive, a quality, which it has not; the only property which it possesses, being that of irri- tating the parts, which it touches, so as to cause their absorption. (Hunter.) When the vessels thus lose the power of pro- ducing good pus, they also lose more or less the power cf forming granulations. This may de- pend on some deviation from the due structure, and action, which such vessels should possess, in order to be qualified for the performance of these two operations. Pus, from several circumstances, would ap- pear in general to have a greater tendency to putrefaction than the natural juices have ; but, perhaps, this is not the case with pure pus, which, when first discharged from an abscess, is com- monly perfectly sweet- There arc, however, some executions to this, but these depend on munication with the air, while the matter was confined in it; or if the collection has been so near the colon, or rectum, as to have been infected by the feces, then we cannot wonder that the matter should become putrid. When blood is blended with pus; when sloughs are mixed with it; when the parts forming the seat of the abscess arc in a gangrenous state from an ery- sipelatous affection; the matter has a greater tendency to putrify than the pure pus discharged from sound abscesses, or healing sores. Pure matter, though easily rendered susceptible of change, by extraneous additions, is in its own na- ture tolerably uniform and immutable. It ap- pears so unchangeable, that we find it retained in an abscess for weeks, without having undergone any alteration. These qualities, however, only belong to perfect pus. If a healthy sore in- flames, the matter now produced from it, though unmixed with extravasated blood, or dead solids, becomes much sooner putrid, and much more irritating, than the discharge formed before this alteration of the ulcer. [Hunter.) In the preceding paragraph, it is stated, that matter remains very often unchanged in ab- scesses for weeks. This expression of Hunter’s is not strictly correct; for, it is well known, that the surfaces of the cavities of abscesses are al- ways absorbing, as well as secreting ones; con- sequently, there must be a continual mutation going on in the contained matter. When there are diseased bones, or other ex- traneous bodies, exciting irritation, sometimes even in so great a degree as to make the vessels- bleed, and often wounding the vessels of the part, the matter is always found to be very offensive. This state of the discharge is one mark of a dis- eased bone. The discharge of an unhealthy sore blackens silver probes, and preparations of lead. This effect is imputed by Dr. Crawford to the sulphu- rated hydrogen gas, generated in the matter. (Phil. Trans, vol. SO, Year 1790, ji. 385.) Further interesting observations on the nature of pus may be found in an Essay on the Differences between Pus and Mucus, by Dr. Darwin, ju- nior ; also in Dr. G. Pearson's Paper in Philos. Trans, i 811. USE or PUS. By some it is supposed to carry off humour* from the constitution. Suppuration is some-, times regarded as a constitutional disease, changed into a local one, which constitutional malady is discharged, or thrown out of the body, either in the form of pus, or together with this fluid. Critical abscesses have been thought to be cases of this sort. Suppuration has also been imagined to carry off local complaints from other parts of the body, on the old principle of deriva- tion, or revulsion. For this reason, sores or is- sues are made in sound parts before allowing other sores to be dried up. Suppuration is some- times excited with a view of making parts, such as indurated swellings, dissolve into pus; but, I have endeavoured to shew, that no dissolution of the solids is concerned in the production of pus. A secretion of pus is looked upon as a general prevention of many, or of all, the causes of dis-