ANEURISM. Jb\> continental surgeons have applied a ligature to the carotid. OF ANEURISMS OF T11K AORTA, AND VALSALVA’S TREATMENT. This alllicting and fatal disease is by no means unfrequent, and the arch of the aorta is the most common situation of the tumor.' Dr. Hunter was of opinion, that the latter circumstance de- pended on the forcible manner, in which the blood, propelled from the left ventricle of the heart, must be driven against the angle of the curvature of the vessel. Mr. A. Rums considered aneurism of the thoracic aorta more frequent, perhaps, than that of any other vessel in the body. “ I have had (says he) an opportunity of examining fourteen, who had died of this disease, but have not seen more than three instances of external aneurism.” (On Diseases »l the Heart, &/r. p. VI 5.) These proportions, however, would not at all correspond to common observation, external aneurisms taken collectively, being supposed to be about as numerous, as those of the aorta alone, a calculation long ago made by Dr. A. Monro, primus. It was the opinion of Dr. W. Hunter, that the aneurismal sac was composed of the dilated coats of the artery, which parts nature thickened and studded with ossifications, after the origin of the disease, forthe purpose of resisting its increase. Mr. Hodgson also in his late excellent publica- tion declares his decided belief, and adduces facts to prove, that many aneurisms of the aorta are formed by dilatation. Scarpa argues, how- ever, that the generality of aneurisms of the aorta are the consequence of a rupture of the proper coats of this large vessel; and that the cellular sheath of the artery is what becomes dis- tended into the thickened and ossified aneu- rismal sac. Dr. W. Hunter considered the ossifications of the sac as consequences of the disease ; but Haller looked upon such scales of bone in the aorta as the very cause of the affection, by rendering the artery inelastic, and incapable of yielding to each pulsation of the heart. It is unquestionably true, that aneurisms of the aorta are most common in persons who are ad- vanced in life, and, it is equally well known, that the aorta of every old subject, whether affected with aneurism, or not, is almost always marked in some place, or another, with ossifications, or, rather, with calcareous concretions. Such pro- ductions appear to occasion a decay, or ab- sorption, of the muscular and inner coats of the vessel, so that at length the force of the blood makes the artery give way, and this fluid, col- lecting on the outside of the laceration, or rup- ture, gradually distends the external sheath of the artery into the aneurismal sac, which itself becomes at last of considerable thickness, and studded with ossified speeks. * U any person, who is not prejudiced in 'ivour of the common doctrine, with regard to t v nature and proximate cause of this disease /,*fi*• ‘^'lcl,a) "iff examine, not hastily and su- P r ciaffyi but, willi care ami by dissection, the •mate structure and texture of the aneurism 0 >e aoita, unloldiug with particular attention the proper and common coats of this artery, and, in succession, those, which constitute the aneu- rismal sac, in order to ascertain distinctly the texture and limits of both, lie will clearly see, that the aorta, properly speaking, contributes nothing to the formation of the aneurismal sac, and, that, consequently, the sac is merely the cellular membrane, which, in the sound state, covered the artery, or that soft cclbdar sheath, which the artery received in common with the neighbouring parts. This cellular substance, being raised and compressed by the blood, effused from the corroded or lacerated artery, assumes the form of a circumscribed tumor, covered externally, in common with tire arteiy, by a smooth membrane, such as the pleura in the thorax, and the peritoneum in the abdomen.” Scarpa then comments upon the differences of mere dilatation of an artery from aneurism, a subject, which lias been already fully considered in the foregoing pages. (Scarpa on the Anatomy, Pathology, and Surgical Trailnrvt of Aneurism, Transl. In/ Wishavt, p. 55, 56’.) As I have aready explained in the foregoing pages, the sentiments of this eminent anatomist are not adopted by the generality of surgeons; or rather his doctrine is not carried by others to the extent, which be lias insisted upon, and it would be useless repetition to bring before the reader again the facts, which prove that his statements are liable to many exceptions. A case, however, recited by Roux, which I have met with since the foregoing pages were printed, merits notice ; it was an instance, in which a popliteal aneurism, unattended with pulsation, had been mistaken for an abscess and punctured, whereby the patient lost bis life. On dissecting the limb, Roux says, “ the three coats of the artery participated in the dilatation, and the case was one of the clearest specimens, which I have ever seen, of a true aneurism.” (Noitveaua, EMmtns tie Med. Op6- rutoire, T. 1, 517.) All arguments, brought against the possibility of a dilatation of the inner coat, and founded on the inelastic structure of that membrane, mustlikfe- wise be completely refuted by another fact, demon- strated by morbid preparations, collected by Du- bois and Dupiiytren, where the inner coat of the aorta is alone dilated, protruding through the outer tunics, in the form of a distinct swelling, somewhat like a hernia, (Riivi Op. eit. p. di).) In whatever manner aneurisms of the aorta are formed, there are no diseases, which are more justly dreaded, or which more completely fill the surgeon, as well as the patient, with de- spair. No affliction, indeed, can be more truly deplorable; for, the sufferings, which are oc- casioned, hardly ever admit even of palliation, and the instances of recovery are so very few, that no consolatory expectation can be indulged of avoiding the fatal end, to which the disease naturally brings the miserable sufferer. The existence of aneurisms of* the aorta is scarcely ever known with certainty, before they have advanced so far, as to be attended with an external pulsation, and it tumor, that admits <>l being felt, or even seen. In very thin subjects, the throbbing of the abdominal aorta is some- times unusually plain through the integuments and viscera, and this lias occasionally given rise to the suspicion ol an aneurism; a eiicuinstaiice,