CANCER. 271 I <ely to bemn in parts previously diseased. ),„v. Work, Col. 2, OK Tumors, p. 87.) The following are some of the most distin- [ -.ashing characters of scirrhus. A scirrhous I [duration seldom acquires the magnitude, to I hich almost all other tumors are liable to grow, | hen no steps are taken to retard their growth. I fany scirrhi are attended even with a diminu- I >n, or shrunk state, of the part affected. - Scirrhi are generally more fixed, and less move- i Ie, than other sorts of tumors ; especially, when i • latter have never been in a state of inflam- ■ pation. With the exception of the fungus hrematoides, i ier diseases do not involve in their ravages in- ! j icriminately every kind of structure, skin, mus- ; cellular substance, See. and the integuments I Idom become affected, before the distention, a xoduced bv the size of such swellings, becomes ry considerable. In scirrhous cases, the skin m becomes contaminated, discoloured, and ekered. i - Some few tumors may be harder, and heavier, m a few scirrhi; but, the reverse, is commonly ; case. As other indurations, and tumors, may assume ; cancerous action, and even end in cancer- s ulceration; and, as some true scirrhi, when t irritated by improper treatment, may continue tionary for years ; the occurrence of actual einoma cannot prove, that the preceding state ; that of scirrhus. The only criterion of the : cr disease is deduced from the assemblage of racters already specified ; for, except the pecu- puckering, and speedy leaden discolouration l .he skin, no other appearances, considered sepa- iiiy, form any line of discrimination. The white ligamentous bands, around a scirrhus, m a very characteristic mark of the complaint, aast as it presents itself in the female breast; , these cannot be detected, till the disease has n removed. Hence, how manifestly prudent aust be to take away a considerable portion of substance surrounding a scirrhous tumor! •re any of these white bands left, the disease dd inevitably recur. Hr. Pearson has never yet met with an un- ivocal proof of a primary scirrhus in an absorb- gland, and, (says he) “ if a larger experi- : shall confirm this observation, and establish ; a general rule, it will afford material assistance arming the diagnosis of this disease. (Pruct. m Cancerous Complaints, p. 5.) Sir E. me, however, has given the particulars of one , which seemed to him to have commenced in of the lymphatic glands, situated between the le and the axilla. (Ohs. on Cancer, p. 161.) position laid down by Mr. Pearson, that n the disease originates in those glands, it will ly be found to be of a cancerous nature, may he very generally correct. CANCER IN THE STATE OF ULCERATION. ccording totheobservations ofMr. Abernethy, diseased skin, covering a carcinomatous tumor e breast, generally ulcerates, before the swell- has attained any great magnitude; a large ,n is then produced in its substance, partly by ttghing, and partly by an ulcerating process. ’( times, when cells, contained in the tumor, are by this means laid open, their contents, which are a pulpy matter of different degrees of consis- tence, and various colours, fall out, and an ex- coriating ichor issues from their sides. This dis- charge takes place with a celerity, which would almost induce belief, that it can hardly result from the process of secretion. When the diseased ac- tions have, as it were, exhausted themselves, an attempt at reparation appears to take place, similar to that which occurs in healthy parts. New flesh is formed, constituting afungus of peculiar hardness, as it partakes of the diseased actions, by which it was produced. This diseased fungus occasionally even cicatrizes. But, though the actions of the disease are thus mitigated; though they may be for some time indolent and stationary; they never cease, nor does the part ever become healthy. In the mean while, the disease extends through the medium of the absorbing' vessels. Their glands become affected, at a considerable distance from the original tumor. The progress of car- cinoma, in an absorbent gland, is the same as that, which has been already described. The disease is communicated from one gland to another, so that after all the axillary glands are affected, those which lie under the collar bone, at the lower part of the neck, and upper part of the chest, become disordered. Occasionally, a gland, or two, become diseased higher up in the neck, and apparently out of the course which the absorbed fluids would take. As the disease continues, the absorbent glands, in the course of the internal mammary vessels, become affected. In the advanced stage of carcinoma, a number of small tumors, similar in structure to the original disease, form at some distance, so as to make a kind of irregular circle round it. The strongest constitutions now sink under the pain and irritation, which the disease creates, ag- gravated by the obstruction, which it occasions to the function of absorption, in those parts, to which the vessels leading to the diseased glands belong. Towards the conclusion of the disease, the pa- tient is generally affected with difficulty of breath- ing, and a cough. (See Ahernel/u/’s Surgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 72, 6;c.) In the above species of carcinoma, described by Mr. Abernethy, the part is peculiarly hard, and rarely attains considerable magnitude. He admits, however, that there are varieties, and speaks of another case, in which the integuments sometimes' remain pale and pliant; “ and a surgeon, who first sees the breast in this state, may doubt, whether the disease be actual cancer, or common sarcoma. The substance of the tumor is also much less hard, than in the specimen first described; yet, it is more compact and weighty, than most other diseases of the same bulk, which are not carcinomatous. If the history of the dis- ease accords with that of carcinoma; that is to say, if it began in a stnall district, and regularly and unabatingly attained its present magnitude ; if the surface of the tumor be unequal, having produced in various parts roundish projecting knobs, the disease will almost invariably be found to be carcinoma. The skin will soon adhere to one, or more of these prominences; it will ulcer- ate and expose the subjacent parts; and the future progress of the disease will accord to that of the harder and smaller specimen,” except that