HERNIA. C09 11 R ness becomes more troublesome, the vomiting more frequent, the pain more intense, the ten- sion of the belly greater, the fever higher, and a general restlessness comes on, which is very terrible to bear. When this is the state of the patient, no time is to be lost ; a very little de- lay is now of the utmost consequence, and if the one single remedy, which the disease is now capa- ble of, be not administered immediately, it will generally baffle every other attempt. This re- medy is' the operation, whereby the parts en- g'aged in the stricture may be set free. If this be not now performed, the vomiting is soon ex- changed for a convulsive hiccough, and a fre- quent gulping up of bilious matter ; the tension of the belly, the restlessness, and fever having been considerably increased for a few hours, the patient suddenly becomes perfectly easy,, the belly subsides, the pulse from having been hard, full, and frequent, becomes low, languid, and generally interrupted; and the skin, especially that of the limbs, cold and moist; the eyes have now a languor and a glassiness, a lack-lustre not easy to be described ; the tumor of the part disappears, and the skin covering it, sometimes changes its natural colour for a'livid hue; but whether it keeps or loses its colour, it has an em- physematous feel, a crepitus to the touch, which will easily be conceived by all who have attended to it. but is not so easy to convey an idea of by words: this crepitus is the too sure indicator of gangrenous mischief within In this state, the gut either goes up spontaneously, or is returned with the smallest degree of pressure ; a discharge is made by stool, and the patient is generally much pleased at the ease he finds ; but this plea- sure is of short duration, for the hiccough and the cold sweats continuing and increasing, with the addition of spasmodic rigors and subsultus tendinum, the tragedy soon finishes.” (Pott.) ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. This subject must necessarily precede the ac- count of the operation, which would otherwise be unintelligible. It is chiefly in the anatomical information, relative to herniae, and in the mode of operating, that modern surgeons have a de- cided superiority over their predecessors; for, be- fore Gimbemat, Camper, Hey, Lawrence, Cooper, Scarpa, and Hesselbach, published their se- veral works on herniae, the anatom)- of the dis- ease was only imperfectly understood. The tendinous fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, as they run downwards and forwards towards the pubes, separate from each other, so as to leave a triangular opening, called the abdominal ring, which is usually more capacious in the male, than the female subject. The upper and inner pillar (as it is termed) of this aperture is inserted into the symphysis of the pubes, and is the weakest of the two; the lower and outer one, which is the strongest, is chiefly a continuation of Poupart’s ligament, {IIeuelbach,iiber den Ursprung, <§c. dcrl.eistcn- und-Schcnkelbriichc, p. 4,) and is fixed into the angle and crista of the same bone. Some ten- dinous fibres cross the upper and outer angle of the ring, so as to diminish the triangular appear- ance of the whole aperture: these are said to be very strong in old herniae. The anterior and thicker layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle joins the tendon of the external oblique; the posterior and thinner one joins that of the transversalis; but the lower portion of this tendon, together with the corresponding part of the transversalis, goes wholly in front of the rectus muscle. Thus the inferior border of the obliquus interims and transversalis, which ori- ginates from the upper part of Poupart’s liga- ment, lies behind the outer pillar of the abdomi- nal ring. Mr. A. Cooper first noticed, that a thin fascia proceeds from the inner edge of Pou- part’s ligament, and spreads over the posterior surface of the transversalis. This fascia forms the only partition between the peritoneum and the outer opening of the abdominal ring, and were it not for its existence, inguinal herniae would probably be much more frequent. The partition in question, however, is said by Scar- pa to be formed by the aponeuroses of the inter- nal oblique and transverse muscles, while, Hes- selbach, who has named the small smooth point, situated directly behind the outer opening of the abdominal ring, its crural surface, distinctly states, that it is formed by delicate fleshy and tendinous fibres of the internal oblique muscle; ((Jeter den Ursprung, fc. dee Lcistcn-und- Schcnkclbruchc, p. 4,) and, that behind them, is the weakest part of what he names the inter- nal inguinal ligament, in the rear of which is the peritoneum, with the intervention of a very loose cellular substance. {Op. cit. p. 26.) The internal inguinal ligament, of Hesselbach, is therefore clearly the same thing as the above fascia pointed out by Mr. A. Cooper. This point of the abdomen is one of the three weak places on the inside of the inguinal region, where herniae are liable to occur; yet, weak as it ap- pears to be, it is not the most common situation of such tumors. A computation has been made, that, in an hundred eases of inguinal hernia, not ten occur at the point here specified. {II. J. Brunninghauscn, Untcrricht iiber die Briiche, Spc., Wurzb. 1811.) The spermatic vessels, joined by the vas de- ferens, run in front of the epigastric artery, very near the place of its origin. They then pass through the above fascia, go under the edge of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and next obliquely downwards, and forwards, between the above fascia, and aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle to the opening of the ring. When arrived on the smooth surface, immediately be- hind the ring, they describe an obtuse angle, and pass forwards and downwards into the scrotum. {Hesselbach, op. cit. p. 5.) Thus we see, that the spermatic cord, before it actually emerges at what is named the abdominal ring, runs through a kind of canal, to which the epithet inguinal is often applied. This oblique passage of the cord, through the abdominal pa- rietes, was well known to, and elegantly deline- ated bv Albinus; Gimbemat makes distinct men- tion of it in bis Account of a new Method of Operating for Femoral Hernia, p. 19, 3‘2 ; but Mr. A. Cooper lias the merit of having given the earliest correct account of the inguinal canal, in reference to hernia; a subject rendered com- plcte by the more recent elucidations ol llesscj- baeh and Scarpa. The abdominal ring is then only the outer