1124 UTERUS, INVERSION OF. Wundarxneykurut, B. 6, p. 210, fyr. Chir. de Demult par Bichat, T. 3. Desault et Chopart, Traite dcs Maladies des Voics Urinaires, 8do. 1790. Nauclic, Nouvelles Ile- cherches sur les Retentions d' Urine par Rctre- cissement de V Uvetrc, et par Paralysie de la Vessie, $r. 8vo. Paris, 1806. Home's Prac- tical Observations on the Treatment of Stric- tures, S(c. 3 vols. and on Diseases of the Pro- state Gland. 2 vols. 8vo. Land. 1811—1818. H. Earle, in Mcdico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 82, Src. UTERUS, INVERSION OF. This case may either be complete, or incomplete. When it is incomplete, only the fundus of the uterus passes through the os tincte. When the inver- sion is complete, the uterus becomes entirely turned inside out, passing through the opening in its cervix, dragging along with it a part of the vagina, and descending more or less far down, sometimes even between the patient’s thighs. The inversion of the uterus mostly arises from the manner, in which the placenta is ex- tracted after delivery. Immediately after par- turition, the uterus is not yet contracted, and its cervix is in a widened state. When things are thus disposed, the uterus may easily follow the after-birth, which is attached to it, and thus be- come inverted. The event is particularly liable to happen; 1st, When a premature attempt is made to extract the placenta. 2dly, When the funis is pulled outward, without due care being taken to support the uterus with the fingers of the left hand. 3dly, When the operator draws out the after-birth too roughly and violently. Though the placenta is sometimes so adherent, that its extraction is difficult, and a risk must be encountered of dragging down the uterus with it, this disagreeable accident may generally be avoided by performing the necessary separation of the parts with the fingers introduced into the cavity of the uterus. The inversion, following delivery, does not al- ways proceed from unskilfulness ; but sometimes happens, notwithstanding every precaution, either because the patients themselves make too violent efforts, or because the uterus is enlarged and heavy ; or else in consequence of some predis- position, some unusual laxity of the organ, which can neither be foreseen, nor prevented. Ruysch saw an inversion of the uterus take place, after the expulsion of the placenta, although delivery had occurred in the most favourable way. Mr. Windsor believes, that, where the uterus and vagina are in a relaxed state, and the female has been subject to prolapsus uteri, there is a greater disposition to the occurrence of inversion, at the time of labour, than when such condition of the parts does not exist. (Med. Chir. Trans. Pol. 10, p. 360.) A tendency to the accident is very common in women who have once been afflicted with it. Amand pientions a woman, who had an inversion of the uterus after her first delivery, but the part was reduced. She was attended by Amand again in her next confinement, and another inversion of the uterus, quite as bad as the first, would hiivo l,nnn«no8 Imil not lie. on nerceivintr CEuvres the placenta from its attachments, before making any attempt to extract it. Besides causes, connected with parturition, there are others of a different nature. Ruysch, Mauriceau, and Lamotte, supposed an inversion of the uterus could only happen at the time, when the placenta was extracted, or a little while after- wards. The accident seemed to them impossible at any other period, both on account of the thick- ness of the uterus, and the smallness of the os tincae. However, many facts prove, that the case may also depend on internal causes, and affect women, who have never had children, as well as others, v'ho have had them. Thus po- lypi of the uterus may bring on inversion of the part. As their pedicle is attached to the fundus of the uterus, they may easily' drag it down- ward, when its texture is lax and soft, particu- larly, as the operation of their weight is continual. (See Denman's Plates of a Polypus with an Inversion of the Uterus. Fol. 1801.) Ute-j rine hemorrhages may also be conducive to the accident, both because they relax the texture of the uterus, and because they are usually attend© with acute pain, which makes the diaphragm an abdominal muscles act upon the uterus with all their power. Levret speaks of a case of inversion of thg uterus, where the displacement was not noticed* until five years after delivery. In this example it is conjectured, that the very' gradual and slow* formation of the disease must have been the rea- son of its not having attracted earlier attention. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 23, p. .'88. Alsii Baudelocque, in Brogniard, Bulletin dc4 Sciences, 2, A7. 1.) When an inversion of the uterus takes plac« after delivery', there are certain symptoms, by which it may' easily be known. The uterus, i its natural situation, thickened and swelled as is at this period, presents itself in the hypoga trie region in the form of a round circumscribe! tumor; but, when it has fallen downward, anj become inverted, a vacancy is felt in the situi tion, which it ought to occupy. When the ir version is incomplete, an examination with tl fingers detects in the vagina a tumor, shapi like the segment of a sphere, having a smoo surface, and being surrounded with the cerv uteri,i as with a kind of collar, round which tlli finger may easily be passed, either between and the uterus, or between it and the vagin When the inversion is complete, which case more rare than the preceding, a tumor may felt in the vagina, from which it sometimes evi protrudes, apt to bleed, of an irregularly rou shape, hanging by' a neck, the lower part which is surrounded by the above circul thick, fleshy', substance, consisting of the Oa ut itself. The slightest touch makes the swellit bleed. The part has a red colour, which, ho ever, generally diminishes in proportion to 1 duration of the displacement. In time, ind© its surface becomes less sensible to external i pressions, and only bleeds at the menstrual j riods, the blood oozing from every point of t swelling, and not issuing from a single apertu at the lower part of the tumor, as in cases of pi lansus uteri.