OPHTHALMY. asi ■ ' second, or that of suppuration, never ensues; , savs Beer, the curative measures must be de- ve, and valuable time not wasted on trifling -ans, although due regard must be paid to the stitution. When the inflammation subsides ourably, it leaves no vestiges of it behind, and u the redness, which is the latest in disappear- completely goes oft- in a few days, and the ction of the eyelid becomes perfect again, f gangrene and sloughing take place, the outei re rings of the eyelid are destroyed, and the sequences are an incurable eversion of the t, (See Ectropinm) or a hare-eye, (see ,rophthalmus.) When suppuration happens jurably, the abscess sometimes breaks very 1 of itself on the upper eyelid; but, according 3eer, this does not readily occur on the lower , nor without the formation of sinuses, which letimes run quite into the orbit. After the :ess has burst, or been opened, the part heals with great celerity in favourable constitutions, slowly in others; vermilion granulations arise m the bottom of the cavity, and ft cicatrix iows which is scarcely perceptible. When the cess is very large, however, and bursts ol itself, : upper eyelid continues for some time very ,ch weakened. If the collection of matter be jlected, or wrongly treated, or the subject be healthy, or the disease be aggravated by the ;cts of a damp atmosphere, hurtful food, severe ntal trouble, wet poultices, or too long con- tinent of the matter, then, says Beer, ftstulae apt to be produced, sometimes complicated h necrosis of the bone, the certain effects of ich are some permanent and mostly incurable ;ase of the eyelid, and impairment of its func- is: 1st. A closure of the lachrymal canals, h a permanent stillicidium. 2. A complete iteration of the same tubes, with an incurable .licidium. 3. A prolapsus of the upper eyelid, m distention of the skin by the long confine- :nt of the matter. 4. Inversion of the edge of i eyelid, from a shrinking of its cartilage. 5. •ersion of the eyelid, and hare-eye, from loss skin. (Beer.) As, in this species of inflammation, says the •.Ik Jj ne author, the organ of sight cannot well be af- ted, unless the disorder afterwards extend itself -r f| ry much, the exclusion of air and light is here •I t of little use. Linen compresses, well wet with ry cold water, or vinegar and water, are to be ap- ed ; and, while the compaint is local, leeches are be used ; but, if the constitution be threatened :h febrile symptoms, then Beer urges the ne- isity of venesection, low diet, purgatives, and neral antiphlogistic measures. (B. 1, p. 275.) In the second stage, with the exception of a v points, Beer states, that the case is to be | ated like any other common abscess. When ; matter is situated in the middle of the upper | elid, not far beneath the skin, the abscess may allowed to burst of itself, especially, if the pa- nt have a great dread of the knife. But, if a matter lie near the outer, or inner canthus, should be let out with a lancet as soon as its ictuation is quite distinct, the incision being ade in the direction of the fibres of the orbicular | uscle. When fistulx, or gangrene, have already ken place, the treatment should be like that, licit is applicable to the same kind of mischief most other parts of the skin. Erysipeldtoiis Inflammation of the Eyelids usually affects both these parts together, very seldom only the upper one, and never the lower alone. When also both are affected, the disorder always presents itself in the greatest degree in the upper eyelid. A pale, yellowish red, seem- ingly transparent, shining swelling arises from the edges of the eyelids, and rapidly extends itself, without any determinate boundary, the faint red colour being gradually lost upon the eyebrow above, and not unfrequently upon the cheek below. When the inflamed part is gently touched, the redness disappears, but only for a moment. At length, the swelling towards the margins of the eyelids becomes exceedingly soft, and feels like a vesicle that has been raised by a blistering plaster. The pain is inconsider- able, not attended with throbbing, but rather with a sense of heat and stiffness; when the part is slightly touched, the patient experiences a lancinating sensation in it. Its temperature is not much increased. The secretions from the Meibomian glands, lachrymal gland, and mucous membrane of the nostrils, are much augmented. In a strong subject, the disorder, if genuine and idiopathic, is not productive of any constitutional disturbance; but, in bad habits, and weak females and children, it is sometimes attended with fever. However, when the com- plaint partakes of the phlegmonous character, and is badly treated, the general symptoms are occasionally very severe at the change from the first to the second stage, and the case may then terminate in a gangrenous kind of suppuration. In irritable, delicate children, says Beer, when the disease spreads over the face, the case requires the most skilful treatment for the prevention of a disastrous termination. In strong persons, the second stage of this dis- order rarely ends in a manifest suppuration; but there is rather an exudation of lymph, which, be- coming dry, forms very small, delicate, branny scales, in the composition of "which the de- squamated cuticle has also a considerable share. In other instances, vesications of various sizes are formed on the erysipelatous surface, and burst, and discharge a fluid, which is converted into yellowish scabs. According to Beer, the skin of the eyelids is particularly prone to erysipelatous inflammation, which is therefore more easily induced in it, than in the integuments of other parts. Beer considers the sudden effect of a cold blast of air, or of very cold water, upon the skin of the eye- lid, while in a state of free perspiration, as the most common cause of its being attacked with erysipelas, particularly in weak subjects. He states, however, that the complaint may be oc- casioned by the stings of bees, wasps, and other insects ; accidents, which when the stings arc not extracted, are liable to be followed by a violent and dangerous general inflammation of the eye- lid, not unfrequently extending in a perilous de- gree to the eyeball itself. (B. 1, p- 281.) With regard to the prognosis, no other case of ophthalmic inflammation so frequently subsides without the aid of surgery as this, provided the constitution be healthy and strong; and, when the complaint is resolved in its first stage, the vestiges of it afterwards are as little as those consequent to common inflammation of the eyelids. :J L