CANCER. ‘26 S Situation, where it is desired to produce an eschar, till the skin turns brown. The end of the caustic must first be a little moistened. Ihc calx cum potassa, is sometimes employed also lor destroying fungous excrescences. Before the port-wine injection was found to answer best for the radical cure of hydrocele, this caustic was often used as a means of cure. (See Hydrocele.) Mr. Else, a chief advocate for the latter method, used to mix the caustic with powdered opium, by which contrivance, it is said, though not with much appearance of truth, that the sloughs were made with little, or no pain to the patient. Some assert that the potassa alone, acts more quickly, than when mixed with quicklime. I have not found this to be the fact, and, alter trying both, give the preference to the calx cum potassa. CAMPHOR, is used externally, chiefly as a means of exciting the action of the absorbents, and thus dispersing many kinds of swellings, ex- travasations, indurations, &c. Hence, it is a common ingredient in liniments. It has also the property of rousing the action of the nerves, and quickening the circulation in parts, on which it is rubbed. For this reason, in paralytic affections, it is sometimes employed. Perhaps, there is no composition, that has greater power in exciting the absorption of any tumor, or hardness, than camphorated mercurial ointment. In cases of delirium, depending on the irrita- tion of local surgical diseases, and in some de- scriptions of mortification, camphor is occasionally prescribed. It has also been recommended, as sin- gularly useful for the relief of stranguries, even those depending on the operation of cantharides. But, although it may occasionally have suc- ceeded, when given with this view, it not only does not always do so, but, it has been known to cause an opposite effect, sometimes producing great scalding in voiding the urine, and some- times pains like those of labour. (Medical Trans- actions, VoL 1, p. 470.) In chordee, its utility is generally acknowledged. GANGER, (derived from cancer, a crab, to which, a part, affected with cancer, and sur- rounded with varicose veins, was anciently thought to have some resemblance.) Carcinoma. The disease has two principal forms; one named scirrhus, or occult cancer ; the other, ulcerated, or open cancel-. According to the usual de- finition, as Mr. Pearson observes, an indolent schirrus is a hard and almost insensible tumor, commonly situated in a glandular part, and ac- companied with little, or no discolouration of the surface of the skin. But, when the disease has proceeded from the indolent to the malignant state, the tumor is unequal in its figure, it be- comes painful, the skin acquires a purple, or livid hue, and the cutaneous veins are often varicose. (Principles of Surgery, § 331,3-13.) The pain is remarked to be acute and lancinating, and its attacks recur with more or less frequency. At length, the tumor breaks, and is converted into cancer, strictly so called, or the disease in the state of ulceration. The female breast, and the uterus, are par- ticularly subject to the disease. The breasts of men arc but rarely affected. The testes, lips, (espe- cially the lower one of male subjects), the penis, the lachrymal gland and c-yc, the tongue, the skin, (particularly that of the face), the tousiff [ the pylorus, the bladder, rectum, prostate, and variety of other parts, are recorded by surgical fc writers as having frequently been the scat <j h scirrhus and cancer. They seem, however, til have comprehended an immense number of di|i ferent malignant diseases under one common name, and, in many of the cases called cai«; cerous, there are no vestiges of the true sciijl rhous structure. OF SCIRRHUS, OR CANCER, NOTIN' THE ULCERl I ATED STATE. Mr. Abernethy has given a matchless historjj I of this affection, as it appears in the femal# breast, where it most frequently occurs, and call be best investigated. Sometimes, says this valull able writer, it condenses the surrounding sub| stance, so as to acquire a capsule; and then it appears, like many sarcomatous tumors, to be ;f part of new formation. In other cases, tli* mammary gland seems to be the nidus forth® diseased action. In the latter case, the bouti-yl daries of the disease cannot be accurately ascer-. I tained, as the carcinomatous structure, having! no distinguishable investment, is confused willM the rest of the gland. Sir Everard Home alsul remarks, that when the disease originates by tM small portion of the glandular structure of thei breast becoming hard, which is very commonly* the case, it is readily distinguished by the hard# part never having been perfectly circumscribed, I and giving more the feel of a knot in the* gland itself, than of a substance distinct from it.| In each of these instances, carcinoma begins at I a small spot, and extends from it in all directions, like rays from a centre. This is one featurei| distinguishing this disease from many others, it which, at their first attack, involve a consider- able portion, if not the whole, of the part, in il which they occur. The progress of carcinoma if is more or less quick in different instances. When if slow, it is in general unremitting. Mr. Abernethy f| thinks, that though the disease may be checked, (1 it cannot be made to recede by the treatment, j which lessens other swellings. On this point, || however, he is not positive; for, surgeons have B informed him, that diseases, which eventually proved to be carcinomatous, have been consider- ! ably diminished by local treatment. V» ith great i deference to Mr. Abernethy, we may be allowed to remark in this place, that every tumor, which j ends in cancer, is not from the first of this na- i ture, though it has in the end become so; con- sequently, it may at first yield to local applica- tions, but will not do so, after the cancerous action has commenced. Hence, Sir. Aber- nethy’s opinion, that a true carcinomatous tumor cannot be partially dispersed, at least, remains umveakened by the fact, that some tumors have at first been lessened by remedies, though they at last ended in cancer. Sir E. Home’s observa- tions tend to prove, that any sort of tumor may ultimately become cancerous. AVithout risk of inaccuracy, we may set down the backwardness of a scirrhous swelling to be dispersed, or diminished, as one of its most con- firmed features. This obdurate and destructive disease excites the contiguous parts, whatever their nature may be, to enter into the same dts*