622 IIEKNIA. OPERATION WHEN THE HERNIA IS SO SMALL THAT IT DOES NOT PROTRUDE EXTERNALLY THROUGH THE RING. In this kind of case, there is little appearance of external tumor; consequently, the disease is very apt to be overlooked by the patient and surgeon, and some other cause assigned for the series of symptoms. The manner of operating, in this form of the disease, differs from that in the common scrotal hernia; the incision is to be made parallel to the direction of the spermatic cord, and the stricture will be found at the inter- nal ring. (A. Cooper on Inguinal Hernia.) TREATMENT AFTER THE OPERATION. Evacuations from the bowels should be imme- diately promoted by means of glysters, oleum ricini, or small doses of any of the common salts, dissolved in pepper-mint water. For some time, the patient must only be allowed a low diet. When symptoms of inflammation of the bowels and peritonaeum threaten the patient, general bleeding, leeches applied to the abdomen, fomen- tations, the warm bath, blisters, doses of the oleum ricini, and glysters, are the means de- serving of most dependence, and should be re- sorted to, without the least delay. When all danger of peritonaeal inflammation is past, and the patient is very low and weak, bark, wine, cordials, and a generous diet, must be directed. The effervescing saline draught, with opium, is the best medicine for quieting sickness, after the operation. Opium and cordials are the most eligible for checking diarrhoea. As the operation does not usually prevent the parts from becoming protruded again, a truss must be applied before the patient leaves his bed, and afterwards con- stantly worn. PROPOSALS FOR THE RADICAL CURE OF THE BUBONOCELE, Of castrating the patient, applying.caustic, or of the operation of the punctum aureum, with this view, I need only say, that they are barbarous, and not at all adapted for the attainment of the desired end. A description of these methods may be found in Pare, Wiseman, Sec. The old operation, termed the royal slitch, was one of the most promising plans. It consisted in putting a ligature, under the neck of the her- nial sac, close to the abdominal ring, and then tying that part of the sac, so as to render it impervious, by the adhesive inflammation thus excited. The royal stitch, performed in this manner, lias been actually attended with success. (Ilcistcr, Vol. 2.) The umbilical rupture was cured by Saviard, on similar principles; and Desault radi- cally cured nine cases of the exomphalos in chil- dren, by tying the hernial sac. Schmucker cured two irreducible ruptures, free from strangulation, by cutting away the body of the sac, after tying its neck. (Chir. Wahrnehmungen, D. 2.) In one case, I\lr. A. Cooper found cutting away the sac alone in- sufficient. Dissecting away the whole hernial sac, 01 even laying it open, must be a formidable opera- tion, compared with merely making a small in- cision down to the neck of the sac, and applying one ligature. If the hernia were reducible, and the upper part of the sac could be rendered imper- vious by the ligature, all other more severe plans would be superfluous. However, Petit, Sharp, Acrel, &c. record cases, which tend to prove the danger and inefficacy of the royal stitch ; though it is true, that none of these surgeons operated exactly in the simple manner above suggested. Richter recommends scarifying the neck of the sac, with the view of producing an adhesion of its sides to each other; a plan, which, he says, lie found very successful. From the account, however, which has been given of the anatomy of the bubonocele, it is obvious, that none of these methods could do more than obliterate the sac as high as the ring, and never that portion of it, which is within the inguinal canal. Hence, the neck of the sac must still remain open for the descent of the viscera. This consideration, and that of the chances of bad and fatal symptoms from any operation un- dertaken solely for this purpose, and not urgently required for the relief of strangulation, are the grounds, on which these experiments are now disapproved. CRURAL, OR FEMORAL HERNIA. Verheyen, who wrote in 1710, first demon- strated the distinct formation of crural hernia, which until then had been generally confounded with bubonocele. The parts, composing this kind of hernia, always protrude under Poupart’s ligament, and the swelling is situated towards the inner part of the bend of the thigh. The rupture de- scends on the inside of the femoral artery and vein, between these vessels and the os pubis, ^ through the crural ring, or canal for the trans- mission of the same vessels. And, as Hes- selbach has remarked, the inner opening of this ring or canal is the predisposing cause of the dis- ease, tiie peritonaeum spread over it, being gra- dually propelled into it by various occasional causes, so as to complete the tendency to hernia. The actual protrusion of the bowels may be formed either suddenly, or by degrees. As soon as the bowels have once passed the outer aper- ture, or what Cloquet terms more properly the lower opening of the crural canal, the hernia has more room lor extending itself forwards, and to each side, and the integuments now become elevated into an oval swelling, the long diameter of which is nearly transverse. (Ilesselbach, p. 47.) Gimbernat names the passage, through which the femoral hernia protrudes from the abdomen, the crural; Hey, the femoral ring; and Cloquel, the crural canal. Females are particularly subject to this kind of rupture. It has been computed, that nineteen out of twenty married women, afflicted with her- nia, have this kind; but, that not one out of an hundred unmarried females, or out of the same number of men, have this form of the disease.— ( Arnaud.) “The crural hernia,’’ says Scarpa, “ is fre- quently observed in women, who have had seve- ral children ; it very seldom afflicts young girls; and still more rarely men. In the latter, the vis-