C/ESA11EAN 260 it will do very well, bocause, unless the narrow- ness of the pelvis lie extreme, two, or three lines hardly make any difference in the facility of par- turition. , Ihe following is the description of the pelvis of the woman, twice operated upon by Dr. Lochcr : the ossa pubis, which should be on the same level with the promontory of the sacrum, were found perpendicularly under it; so that the child necessarily extended the abdominal integu- ments by its own weight, into a pendulous bag overhanging the thighs. For the same reason, nothing could be felt of the child by examination per vaginam. The sacrum, instead of closing the pelvis behind, by a semicircular curve, which forms a kind of conductor for the child in partu- rition, stretched nearly horizontally backwards. A representation of this pelvis, with a few other particulars, may be seen in a modern publication. (Med. Chir. Tran?. Vo!. 11, p. 199.) The pelvis may be everywhere well formed, and vet present an insurmountable obstacle to delivery, in case an exostosis, lessening its di- mensions, should exist on one of the bones, which compose this part of the skeleton. Pineau met with a case of this description in a woman, who died undelivered. The tumor originated from one of the ossa pubis. A steatomatous swelling, situated with the head of the child in the upper aperture of the pelvis, might produce the samo effect, unless it were detected, and could be pushed out of the way, so as to make room for the foetus to pass, Baudeloque men- tions a swelling of this kind. It was six or seven inches long, and an inch and a half in width. The extremity of it, which was nslarge as half an lien’s egg, had a bony feel, and contained nine well-formed teeth, the rest of the mass being steatomatous. It had descended into the lesser pelvis, below the projection of the sacrum, and a little to one side It might have been taken for an exostosis of this last bone. The labour pains continued sixty hours, and the propriety of per- forming the Caesarean Operation was under con- sideration. Baudelotpie was averse to this pro- ceeding. He recommended turning the child, and extracting it by the feet, because he thought, that the pelvis was sufficiently capacious to admit of delivery. 1 he event proved, that it was three inches nine lines, from before backward, and four inches nine lines transversely. The foetus was soon easily extracted. The assistance of the forceps was necessary to get out the head. The child was still-born. The mother, exhausted with numerous unavailing efforts, only survived be- tween fifty and sixty hours. Baudeloque was of opinion, that a defective regimen also tended to occasion her death. Among the insurmountable obstacles to de- livery may be reckoned such a displacement of the uterus, that this viscus protrudes from the abdomen, and forms a hernia. The records of surgery have preserved some examples of this extraordinary occurrence. Twice has the Caesa- rean <Iperation been performed, and, in one of the eases, the woman survived so long, that hopes were entertained of her recovery. Indeed, as Sabatier observes, why should not the operation succeed in such a case, where the uterus is only covered by the integuments, and there is no oc- casion to cut into the abdomen, just as well as OPERATION. other instances, in which it is indispensable to di- vide the muscles, and open the cavity of the belly? In the other case on record, delivery was effected in the ordinary way, either by raising the abdomen, and keeping it in this position with towels skill ally placed, or by making pressure on the uterus, which had the beneficial effect of mak- ing this organ resume its proper situation. Ha ving shewn the absolute necessity for the Caesarean Operation, under certain circumstances, it remains to consider the proper time for per- forming it, the requisite preparatory means, and the method of operating. With regard to the time of operating, practi- tioners do not agree upon this point; some ad- vising the operation to be done, before the mem- branes have burst, and the waters been discharged; others, not till afterwards. The arguments, in favour of the first plan, are, the facility with which the uterus may be opened without any risk of in- juring the foetus, and the hope that the viscus will contract with sufficient force to prevent he- ■ morrhage. The advocates for the second mode believe, that, in operating after the discharge of the waters, there is less danger of the uterus fall- ing into a state of relaxation, in consequence of becoming suddenly empty after being fully dis- tended, and that this method does not demand so extensive an incision. Hence, they recom- mend, as a preliminary step, to open the mem-1 branes. Whatever conduct he adopted, it is es- sential, that the labour should be urgent and un- equivocal, that the cervix uteri should be effaced, and that the os tincre should be sufficiently dilated to allow the lochia to be discharged; but, at the same time, says Sabatier, if the operation is not■ to be done till after the escape of the waters, there ought not to be too much delay, lest the patient’s strengtli should be exhausted, and the violent efforts of labour should bring on an in- flammatory state of the parietes of the uterus. The propriety of emptying the rectum and bladder is so evident, that it is unnecessary to in- sist upon it. This precaution is more particularly requisite in regard to the latter of these viscera, which has been known to rise so much over the uterus, as to conceal the greater part of it. Bau- deloque had occasion to remark this circumstance,] in a woman, upon whom he was operating. The bladder ascended above the navel, and presented itself through the whole extent of the opening made in the parietes of the abdomen. The instruments, dressings, &c. which may be wanted, are two bistouries, one with a convex edge, the other having a probe-point; sponges, basins of cold water acidulated with a little vine- gar ; long strips of adhesive plaster; needles and ligatures; lint; long and square compresses; a bandage to be applied round the body, with asca- pulary, Ac. For the purpose of undergoing the operation, the patient should he placed at the edge of her bed, well supported; her chest and head should • he moderately raised; her knees should ho some- what bent, and held by assistants, one of whom ought to be expressly appointed to fix the uterus by making pressure laterally, and from above downward, so as to circumscribe, in some degree, the swelling of the uterus, and prevent the pro- trusion of the bowels. These things being tended to, the integuments are to be divided wit