17 AMAUROSIS. tient’s fancy, as if gnats, or flies, were flying about before his eyes.) ( Visits Muscarum, Myo- dcsopsia.) Sometimes, transparent, dark-streaked, circular, or serpentine diminutive bodies appear as if flying in greater or lesser numbers before the eyes, often suddenly ascending, and as quickly falling down again, and chiefly annoying the patient and confusing his sight when he looks at strongly illuminated or white objects. The substances thus appearing to fly about before the patient’s eyes are termed by writers Sco- tomata; Muscce volitantes; Mouches volantes. (Beer, Lehre, §c. B. 2, p. 424.) The term sco- toma, however, is not always received exactly in the foregoing sense; for, Richter says, some- times the malady seems to be confined to a single little spot in the eye, in which case, the patient is conscious of having before the retina an immove- able black speck. It is to this particular instance, that some pathologists apply the term scotoma. These scotomata gradually increase, become less and less transparent, and, at length, are so connected together, that they form a kind of net- work, or gauze, bv which all objects are more or less obscured. This is another symptom of amau- rosis, technically called visus rettculalus. The net-work commonly has the peculiarity of being black in very light situations, or when white sub- stances are before the eye; while, in dark places, it is quite shining, and, as it were, of a bluish white hue, like silver, though sometimes of a red-yellow, golden colour. A not uncommon symptom of imperfect amau- rosis is the patient’s seeing every object indi- stinctly in a rainbow-like, sometimes tremulous, and generally very dazzling light; while, in the dark especially, blue or yellow flashes, or fiery- balls seem suddenly to pass before his eyes when the eyelids are shut, and excite considerable alarm. ( Visus lucidus; Marmorygc Hijipocratis ; Photopsiu.) In imperfect amaurosis, the sensibility of the retina may be so augmented, that the patient shurs all very' light places, particularly those in which the light is strongly reflected into the eye, and, in order yet to discern in some mea- sure large objects, he feels himself obliged always to seek shady, darkish situations, or to screen his eyes, out of doors, with a green shade, or green glasses. This state is termed by Beer, Uchtscheue. (Photophobia.) Under these cir- cumstances, it sometimes happens, that the pa- tient for a very' short time, for example a few moments, or (what is very' uncommon) for a more considerable period, is able of himself to discern the smallest objects in a very weak light more plainly and accurately than the best eye can hardly do in a good light. Yet, excepting at such period, the patient with the above degree of light is not capable of seeing' even larger objects. This infirmity of sight receives the name of oxyopia. Sometimes, in the early stage of amaurosis, all objects seem covered with a dense mist; while, in other instances, this mist first presents itself as a simple, continually increasing scotoma, and rasely in the form of a network, or gauze; but to the patient, when his blindness commences with l ie visas vclndnsus, the mist usually appears for a ay or two of a light grey colour, and then for another day or two very black, every thing ap- pearing as if looked at through a dense sooty smoke. (Beer, Lehre von den Augenkrankheiten, B. 2, p. 422-26.) To an eye affected with imperfect amaurosis, all objects frequently appear indistinct, but double. (Fistir duplicatus; Dijitopia.) It is remarked by Schmucker, that, in the gutta serena, which comes on gradually, the patient sometimes sees double, with both eyes. Some years ago, Schmucker cured a major of hussars, who saw the three lines of his squadron double; and the same surgeon was ordered by the king of Prussia to attend a gentleman, who was afflicted in a similar way'. In the opinion of this eminent surgeon, such cases are brought on by a violent distention of the vessels of the choroides, where he thinks, that varices may easily arise, in con- sequence of the weak resistance of that mem- brane. In this manner, the filaments of the re- tina suffer pressure, and the rays of light are broken. Under these circumstances, if prompt assistance be not afforded, total and frequently incurable blindness may' be the consequence. Schmucker met with an example of such an irremediable' amaurosis (the only instance in his practice), in a young man, twenty-six yuars of age. When the patient made application for the advice of the foregoing surgeon, he had been blind a year. Before he lost his sight, he re- marked, that, after any violent emotion, his sight at first grew weak, and that objects after- wards appeared double. When his circulation was at all hurried, he saw black spots before his eyes, and, at length, was quite blind. The vessels of the choroides were as large, as if they had been injected with wax and every' kind of surgical assistance proved ineffectual. (Ver-> mischte Chir. Schriften, B 2, p. 12, S)C. ?,vo, Berlin, 17 86.) In some cases, according to Beer, double vision only occurs, when the patient looks at objects with both eyes, and it ceases as soon as he shuts either the diseased or the sound eye. In the last of these circumstances, the double vision only originates from the deviation of the unsound eye from the axis of vision; but in the first in- stance, it arises from the morbid state of the retina itself of the diseased eyre. For the pur- pose of distinguishing both these examples of diplopia from every' other species of symptomatic double vision, Beer applies to them the name of diplopia nervosa, A degree of squinting, stra- bismus, therefore, is a very' common symptom of incipient amaurosis, particularly when only one eye is affected : for, this always deviates more or less from the axis of vision. It is less usual for imperfect amaurosis to be accompanied with what Beer terms obliquity of the eye, (f.uscitas); cither a paralysis of one or other of the muscles of the eye, or a ceaseless, irregular action of one or more of the same muscles, being evidently a condition of this symptomatic appearnnee. (See Bin’s Lehre Von dni Augenkrankheiten, B. 2, p. 427.) Beer- has often met with patients labouring under imperfect amaurosis, who could plainly distinguish all objects, which were not very small; but, saw them of a different colour from their real one; for instance, yellow, green, purple, ike. (Visus coloratus; crvpsia.) lie bad under bis care an amaurotic woman, who at midday could discern even the smallest objects in a strong light; but, they all appeared yellow, though no marks of jaundice were perceptible,