viii PREFACE. the bone, or periosteum. In Mr. Abernetliy’s Works, Vol. 1, or p. 11G7 of this Dictionary, a case is recorded, where a young medical student, in consequence of the infection of a scratch on his finger with the matter of a bubo, had a variety of secondary symptoms, and, amongst them, a thickening of the periosteum on the forehead, and a true corona veneris. The case was treated from the beginning to the end without mercury, and every symptom disappeared. Mr. Abernethy, according to doctrines, for- merly in vogue, supposed that the disease could not be syphilis, because the recovery was effected without the reputed specific; but, as this criterion is now proved to be erroneous, the above case would be set dowrn as venereal by the generality of modern surgeons. A day or two ago, Mr. M'Gregor, senior surgeon to the Lock Hospital, mentioned to the author tw'O decided examples of nodes in patients, who had never used any mercury from the commencement of their cases ; but, who were obliged to have recourse to this medicine for the cure of these and other secondary complaints. In Mr. Abernethy’s case, it has been stated, that the corona veneris, as well as the other symptoms, yielded without mercury. Mr. M'Gregor inclines to the‘ opinion, that syphilis is capable of a spontaneous cure only where the constitution is good ; yet, as the army reports include some thousands of cases, taken promiscuously and cured without the specific, there is some difficulty in explaining the invincible resistance of a few cases to the non- mercurial practice by any supposition of badness of constitution, in the general sense of the expression; and it must be presumed, that, wdiere many thousands of individuals are treated promiscuously w ithout mercury, and ultimately recover, their constitutions could not all have been healthy. Mr. M‘Gregor, however, may be correct, inasmuch as some uncommon peculiarity of constitution may sometimes present itself, in which the use of mercury is absolutely necessary for the removal of syphilitic complaints. As far as the experience of the author of this work goes, the frequency of nodes and caries has been considerably lessened since moderate courses of mercury have been substituted for violent salivations ; an opinion, in which he is happy to find himself joined by his friend, Mr. M‘Gregor. South Crescent, Bedford Square, Dec. II, 1821.