JOINTS. 743 the same time, that the hip and knee are a little bent. This answers to the patient the same purpose of enabling him to throw the weight of his body on the other foot; but it produces an inclination of the pelvis in the opposite direction. The crista of the ilium is higher, than natural, and there is an apparent shortening, instead of elongation of the limb on the side of the disease.” (Pathol, and Surg. Obs. p. 147.) Mr. Ford has very accurately called the at- tention of surgeons to the alteration, with re- spect to the natural fulness and convexity of the nates, that part appearing flattened, which is usually most prominent. The glutteus magnus becomes emaciated, and its edge no longer forms so bold a line, as it naturally does at the upper and back part of the thigh, in the sound state of the limb. Although this symptom, in combination with others, is of importance to be attended to, it has been explained by Mr. Brodie, that “ it is not in itself to be regarded, as a certain diagnostic mark of disease in the hip; since, in its early stage, this symptoi^ is wanting; and it is met with in other diseases, in which the muscles in the neigh- bourhood of the hip are not called into action, although the joint itself is unaffected.” (See Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 322.) Though there may be more pain about the knee, than the hip, at some periods of the ma- lady in its incipient state, yet, the former articu- lation may be bent and extended, without any increase of uneasiness; but, the os femoris can- not be moved about, without putting the patient to immense torture. The patient soon gets into the habit of bear- ing the weight of his body chiefly upon the op- posite limb, while the thigh of the affected side is bent a little fonvard, that the ground may only be partially, touched with the foot. This posi- tion is found to be the most comfortable, and every attempt to extend the limb occasions an increase of pain. This is the first stage of the disease, or. that which is unaccompanied with suppuration. The symptoms, which precede the formation of pus, vary in different cases, according as there is acute, or chronic inflammation present. When the diseased joint is affected with acute inflam- mation, as generally happens, the surrounding parts become tense and extremely painful; the skin is even reddisli; and symptoms of inflam- matory fever prevail. When the severity of the pain abates, a swelling occurs in the vicinity of .the joint, and a pointing quickly follows. In this stage startings and catchings during sleep arc said to be among the most certain signs of the formation of matter. “ The shortening of the limb,” says Mr. Brodie, “ which usually takes place in the advanced stage of the disease, is usually, but not always the precursor of abscess. The formation of matter is also indicated by .an aggravalton of the pain; by more frequent spasms of the muscles, by a greater wasting of the whole limb, and by the circumstance of the thigh becoming, bent forward, and being inca- pable of extension,” and by the pulse becoming quick, the tongue furred, and the whole system being in a state of preternatural excitement. “ The abscess usually shews itself in the form .of a large tumor over the vastus externus mus- cle ; sometimes on the inside of the thigh, near the middle; and occasionally two or three ab- scesses appear in different parts, and burst in succession.’' (Brodie's Pathol. Obs.p. 152.) We have noticed the commonly lengthened state of the limb, in the first periods of the hip- disease. This condition is not of very long duration, and is sooner or later succeeded by a real shortening of the affected member. The foot maybe turned inwards; but, as Mr. Bro- die observes, if left to itself, it is generally turned outwards. In other cases, the limb is shortened; the thigh is bent forwards; the toes are turned inwards, and do not admit of being turned out- wards; (Pathol. Obs.p. 148) ; and all the sym- ptoms of a luxation of the thigh upwards and outwards may be observed, the head of the bone, indeed, being actually drawn into the ex- ternal iliac fossa, and carried betwixt the os in- nominatum and glutseus minimus, which is raised up by it. (See Richcrand JVosOgr. Chir. T. 3, p. 171, 172, Ed. 2.) AVhen the retraction is very considerable, it arises from nothing less, than an actual disloca- tion of the head of the thigh-bone, in conse- quence of the destruction of the cartilages, liga- ments, and articular cavity. This retraction sometimes comes on long before any suppura- tion takes place. The head of the bone is some- times dislocated, and the disease terminates in anchylosis, without any abscess whatever. How- ever, if suppuration has not taken place, Mr. Brodie believes, it rarely happens, that the limb, after the cure, does not regain its natural degree of mobility. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 325.) It is worthy of particular notice, that the head of the bone is always luxated upwards and out- wards ; and the only exception to this observa- tion, upon record, is a case related by Cocchi, in which a spontaneous dislocation of the thigh- bone, as it is termed, happened upwards, for- wards, and a little inwards. (See Reveille, Nouvelle Doctrine Chir. T. 3, p. 595.) On a egalemcnt vu la tete ciu femur luxee en dedans et en has, et placee sur le trou obturateur, mais cette modede deplacement consecutif, dans lequel le membre est alonge, est infiniment rare. (Ri- chcrand, JVosogr. Chir. T. 3. p. 172.) The hip-disease generally induces hectic sym- ptoms, after it has existed a certain time. In some subjects, such symptoms soon come on; in others, the health remains unaffected a very considerable time. “ The health of the patient (says Mr. Brodie) usually suffers, even before abscesses haveformed, from the want of exercise, pain, and particularly from the continued disturbance of his natural rest. I recollect no instance of an adult, in whom abscesses had formed, and who did not ultimately sink exhausted by the hectic sym- ptoms, which these induced. Children may re- cover in this ultimate stage of the disease; but, seldom without a complete anchylosis of the joint.” (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, loco cit.) When abscesses of the above description burst, they continue, in general, to emit an unhealthy thin kind of matter for a long time afterwards. With respect to the morbid anatomy of the disease in its incipient state, until lately little was known. A few years ago two dissections