627 llEltNIA. Bums of Glasgow calls the falciform process, the upper part of which is attached to the above ligament, while the lower proceeds further down the thi'di. The concavity of the falciform pro- cess is "directed towards the pubes. This ana- tomical connexion is one chief cause, why ex- tending the thigh, and rotating it outward, ren- der the crural arch tense. The hernia, being situated in front of the pec- tineus, must of course be exterior to the fascia lata. In my opinion, surgeons are very much indebted to Mr. Lawrence for his able explana- tion of this fact. As for myself, I am candid enough to own that, until I read his clear and concise account of the anatomy of the crural hernia, I could never reap any accurate notions, concerning the relative situations of the hernial sac and fascia of the thigh, from other more pro- lix works, with the exception of those of Hes- selbach and Langenbeck, by whom the analonjv is made perfectly intelligible. Mr. Lawrence reminds us, however, that the particular crural hernia, contained in the sheath of the femoral vessels, lies under the fascia; p. 382, Edit. 3. And he mentions, that, “ the falciform process of the fascia lata, passes along the upper and outer part of the tumor. The iliac vein is placed on the outer side of the neck of the sac; the pubes is directly behind it; and the upper and inner parts are bounded by the thin posterior edge of Poupart’s ligament.” The inner side of the crural ring or canal, as already explained, is connected with the fascia of the transverse muscle. And, according to Langenbeck, below the part of the fascia lata, which forms the external foramen for the femoral vessels, the front side of the crural canal is some- times formed by a continuation of the fascia of the transverse muscle, as he found was the case in both groins of one female subject. In such a case, there is a good deal of fat between the fascia lata, and the aponeurosis of the transverse muscle, and the two parts are easily separable. Langenbeck admits, however, that the same ap- pearance may arise from a splitting of the layers of the fascia lata. Frequently the front side of the crural ring is so short, that the opening can- not rightly be termed a canal, and it is always shorter, than the posterior side. When the outer side a*its, it is extended across the inner over the space between the two horns, and is then connected with the aponeurosis of the pectinalis derived from the fascia of the psoas and levator ani muscles. In the anterior and inner sides of the crural canal, there are some small openings. Doubtless, this structure is referred to by Hes- selbach, when he says, that, in the male subject the outer opening for the femoral vessels is fur- ther closed by a net-like web of tendinous fasci- culi. The posterior side of the crural canal, or ring, is entirely formed by the part of the fascia ot the psoas, Which enters its inner opening, and joins the aponeurosis of the pectinalis muscle. I he outer side of the canal lies under the fascia lata, and joins the anterior and posterior sides, where the aponeuroses of the transverse and iliac muscles proceed to the outside of the fe- moral artery. Langenbeck thinks the opening, by which the vena saphena passes over the lower hoin of the falciform process of the fascia lata, might be named the lover aperture of the crural canal. (See Langenbeck's JVeue Bill, fur die. Chirurgie, B. 2, p. 126, 127, 8vo, Han- nover, 1819.) i According to Hesselbach, iti femoral hernia, the two openings of the passage now termed the crural or femoral ring, are. one half larger, than natural. The outer portion of the inner of these apertures is propelled more outward, and with it the epigastric artery. The femoral vein no longer lies at the external end of this opening, but rather at the back of the canal or passage. The external semilunar edge (the falciform pro- cess) of the outer opening is carried more out- ward and upward, and is tightly applied over the distended hernial sac. In this state of the parts, the outer opening forms an oval firm tendinous ring, the direction of which, like that of the inner opening for the passage of the femoral vessels, is transverse. The neck of the hernial sac is that portion of it, which lies within the canal between the two openings. The posterior side of this canal, or passage, now frequently named the crural, or femoral ring, is longer, than the an- terior- In one large hernia, Hesselbach found it an inch and a half in length, but the anterior side of the passage more than one third shorter. The greatest diameter of the inner opening was one inch five lines, while that of the outer one was onty one inch four lines. Most of the pos- terior part of the neck of the hernial sac, with the hinder side of the canal, lies upon the pectineus muscle, and towards the outer side upon the femoral vein. The neck of the hernial sac adheres more firmly to the anterior, than to the posterior, side of the passage. At the outer opening of the passage, the neck terminates at almost a right angle forwards in the body of the sac, the upper portion of which lies upon I’oupart’s ligament, but the largest part of it is situated on the deep seated layer of the femoral fascia, by which the outer side of the body of the sac, as high as the neck, is separated from the crural vessels and nerves. In the male subject, when the tendinous fibres, mixed with the cellular substance covering the outer opening of the passage, make great re- sistance at particular points, the hernial sac of a femoral hernia may be double, or even divided into several pouches, a preparation exhibiting which occurrence, is in the anatomical museum at Wurzburgh. {IJcssclbach, p, 48.) Except in a few cases, in which the origin and course of the epigastric artery are unusual, this vessel runs very close to the external side of the neck of the hernial sac, much nearer than it does in an in- ternal bubonocele. The sac of the femoral hernia is exceedingly narrow at its neck; and, where its body begins, it becomes expanded in a globular form : the sac of the bubonocele is generally of an oblong pyra- midal shape. The body of the sac of the femoral hernia, makes a right angle with the neck, by being thrown forward and upward, a circum- stance very necessary to be known in trying to reduce the parts by the taxis. Though the tu- mor, formed by the body of the sac, is oval and nearly transverse, it is found, when attentively examined, to take the direction of the groin, which extends obliquely downwards and inwards, t)ie outer, rather smaller end of the swelling being somewhat higher than the inner. (ITcsscl- bach,p. 50.) S S 2