102 AMPUTATION. covering the inner surface of the tibia, which health, in which amputation becomes truly in- bone was of necessity exposed, before the saw dispensable, this man would not have survived could ho applied. the illness arising from the operation. The Upon raising the outer flap, the head of the only other case, in which Mr. Park extirpated fibula came into view, and, after being separated the knee, ended fatally. In the instance re- born its attachments, was cut oil with a small lated by Moreau, there seemed, indeed, to be saw. The inner flap was then raised, and the considerable debility. This patient escaped the head of the tibia, having been separated from the first dangers consequent to so severe an opera- muscles behind, was sawn off. tion ; and, after three months confinement, the I It does not appear necessary to insert in this patient was in such a state, that Moreau expected work the account of cutting out the ankle joint; he would be able to ualk upon crutches in an- an operation which will never be extensively O'her month nr sit weeks! The young man in adopted, nor shall I add any thing more con- the mean time was attacked by an epidemic cerning the mode of removing, in a similar way, dysentery, and died. On the 21st of October, the shoulder joint. In treating of amputation 1809, Mulder extirpated the knee-joint of a in this situation, I have already said enough, pregnant woman in the hospital at Groningen; and whoever wishes for further information, re- bul she died of tetanus on the 8th of the follow- specting this practice, must refer to Dr. Jeffrav’s ing February. He conceives, the operation is Work, entitled “ Coses of Excision of Curious much facilitated by removing the ends of the Joints.'’ This publication contains all that is femur and tibia in their connected state. (See known on the subject. Dr. Jeffrny has re- Diss. ae Articutis extirpmidis auctore C. H. commended a particular, and, indeed, a very Wachter.) 2. Even supposing the excision of ingenious, saw, for facilitating the above opera- the knee to be followed by all possible success, tion. The saw alluded to is constructed with is the advantage of having a mutilated, shortened, joints, like the chain of a watch, so as to allow stiff limb, in lieu of a wooden leg, sufficiently itself to be drawn through behind abone, by means great to induce any man to submit to an opera- of a crooked needle, like a thread, and to cut the tion, beyond a doubt infinitely more dangerous bone from behind forward, without injuring the than amputation ? I think not. The practice is at soft parts. An instrument of this kind was present nearly exploded.in this country; but, at executed in London, by Mr. Puchards, who was Paris, I hear every now and then of its being assisted in making it by his nephew, the present attempted. Many interesting observations on Mr. Richards, of Brick-lane. In placing the the extirpation of various diseased joints, may saw under a bone, its cutting edge is to be be found in the above-mentioned dissertation by turned away from the flesh. Handles are after- Wachter, and in the analysis of it by Langen- wards hooked on the instrument. beck (Bibl fiir die Chir. B- 3, Gottingen 1811.) According to my notions of the treatment of In quitting this part of the subject, I may diseased joints, as long as the patient’s strength just notice, that an extraordinary case was com- is not subdued by the irritation of the local dis- municated to me about two years ago by ease, humanity dictates the propriety of per- Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, who cut out several severing in an attempt to save the affected of the tarsal bones, including the diseased sur- limb, &c. Will a patient, greatly reduced by face of the astragalus, and also some of the hectic symptoms, be able to recover from so metatarsal bones, from a boy's foot, with corn- bold and bloody an operation, as the dissection plete final success. The hemorrhage however of the whole of the knee-joint out of the limb? was profuse, and great difficulty experienced in If some few should escape, with life and limb stopping it. Whether this bold experiment merits preserved, would the bulk of persons, treated in imitation, I am not at present prepared to say; this manner, have the same good fortune ? I but, be this as it may, the fact is interesting, cannot admit, that the extirpation of the whole of so large an articulation as the knee, can be amputation of the fingers and toes, compared with the operation of amputation, in and fart of the foot. point of simplicity and safety. However, it is The best surgeons all agree with Mr. Sharp, not on the difficulty of practising the former, that the amputation of the fingers and toes is that I would found my objections; for, I believe, most conveniently performed in their articula- that any man possessing a tolerable knowledge tions. With a common scalpel, the skin is to be of the anatomy of the leg, might contrive to cut through circularly, not exactly upon the achieve the business. The grounds, on which joint, but a little towards the extremity of the I withhold my approbation from the attempt to finger, in order that a sufficient flap may be pre- cut out large joints, are the following: — 1. The served for covering the end of the bone. On great length of time which the healing of the taking away a finger from a metacarpal bone, wound requires. Whoever peruses the case of Mr. Sharp recommends making two small lon- IIector M'Caghan, will find that the operation gitudinal incisions on each side of the joint, as was performed on the 2d of July, 1781, and a means of facilitating the separation, that it was February 28th of the following year, In amputating the fingers and toes, the opera- before all the subsequent abscesses and sores tion is greatly facilitated by cutting into the joint were perfectly healed. This space of time when it is bent. Having made an opening in the Is verv nearly eight months! Mr. Park describes back part of the capsule, one of the lateral liga- te patient as a strong, robust sailor, and gives trients may easily be cut, after which nothing keeps no further particulars concerning the state of his the head of the bone from being turned out, and constitution, than that his health was declining, the surgeon has only to cut through the rest of I entertain little doubt, that if the excision of the exposed ligamentous and tendinous parts, j the knee had been performed in that state of the Some recommend making a small semicircular