HEAD. 561 When there is a fissure in the bones forming .he roof of the mouth, it usually diminishes, and Gradually closes, after the hare-lip is cured. But, his does not always happen, and when the parts •emain so considerably separated, as to obstruct speech and deglutition, or cause any other in- .‘onvenience. a plate of gold or silver, exactly dapted to the arch of the palate, and steadied V means of a piece of sponge, fixed to its con- ex side, and introduced into the clpft, may ometimes be usefully employed. When the oonge is of suitable size, and very dry, before eing used, the moisture of the adjacent parts ill make it swell, and, in many cases, be suf- cient to keep it in its situation, so as greatly > facilitate speaking and swallowing. Seme- mes, however, the fissure is so shaped, that the ionge cannot be fixed in it: this principally ippens when the opening widens very muck, ■wards the front of the jaw In such cases, it ■ is been proposed to fix a plate of gold, by means springs, covered with the same metal. Pla- in, which is cheaper, might be used for the me purpose. ' The subject, however, of arti- •ial palates is one, on which much mechanical . genuitv may yet be usefully exerted, and it can .rdly be expected, that I should here do more, an give references to works, in which the reader ay find information upon it. (See F'anchord, ; Chirnrgien Dentiste, 2 Tom. 12mo. Paris 28 ; Camper, Vcriyischtc Schriften, No. 13 ; tiers Journ. ‘2 B p. 25, p. 185, ~c. Von v cling iiber cine merkwiirdige Kunstlichc rsezung mehrerer, sozcohl zur Spraelie, als 7i Schlncken nothwendiger, zerstbrter Werk- ige; 8vo. Hcidelb. 1793; Siebold, Chir. ■gebuch, No. 20; J. H. F. Autcnricth, Sup- r.icnta ad Hist. Embnjonis Humani, qui- s acccdunt Observata qmzdam circa palatum um verosimillimamquc illi medendi metlio- r~i Ato. Tubing. 1797. Culler ion, in Journ. ii. Spc. T. 19; Recucil Period. S^c. T. 11, 22; Dirt, des Sciences Med. T. 37, art. turateur; C. Graefe cl Ph. von Wulther, urn. dor Chir. 1 B. p. 1. 8vo. Berlin. 1820; this work, Graefe has described a method of ing fissures in the soft palate bp means of a ■ticular hind of suture, with the various in- (.merits necessary in the operation. For infor- .ion, relative to the hare-lip, see B. Bell's ■gery, Vol. 4. 1 leister's Surgery. LcDran's •utions; Sharp's Operations; F. D. He- at, Mem. dc I'Acad. dcs Sciences, an nee 3, p. 86 ; a very curious case, complicated, 'i a fissure in the palate, and two oblong rtures at the sides of this cleft. In play, child would sometimes fill his month with er, and, through those apertures, let it spout at the nostrils, in imitation of what takes e in whales. G. De la. Faye, Mem. dc ad. Roy ale dc Chir. T. 1, p. GO 5, annee E. Sandifort, Ohs. Amt. Pathol. 4to. Museum Anat. p. 110, I6'4. Lugd. fiat. 7. Flajuni, Collezione d' Osscrvazioni, Sec. 1, 8vo. Roma. Latta's Surgery, Vol. 2 ; cyclopedic. Mithodique, Partie Chir. Bee dc Licvre. M. Louis, in Mem. de 'ad. de Chirurgic, T. 4. p. 385. 4to. annde T. 5, p. 292, amide 1774; Dc la M6- nr- Opcratoire par Sabatier, T. 3, p. 272, Paris, 1810. (Entires Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, T. 2, p. 173. Traitc des Opera- tions dc Chirurgic, par A. Bcrtrandi, Chap. 19. P. N. Hagucttc, Sur le Bec-de-lievrc naturel. 4to. Paris. 1804. J. Kirby, Cases, d[*c. 8vo. Loud. 1819; forceps recommended for holding the lip in the operation. Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. ‘2, Rap. 7. Richerand, Nosographie Chir. T. 2, p. 255, ijfc. Edit. 4. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. 3, p. 451, 4fC. Edit. 2. Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 3, art. Bee de Licvre ; Sprengel, Geschichte der Chir. Operational, B. 1, p. 155. Graefe, Angiectasia, v. Langenbeck Bibl. 2 B. p. 359. Eckoldt, Ucber eine sehr complicirtc Hascn- schartc; Leipz. 1804.fol.) HEAD, injuries of. Mr. Pott remarks, that, though the scalp be called the common tegument of the head, yet, from the variety of parts of which it is composed, from their struc- ture, connexions, and uses, injuries, done to it by external violence, become of much more con- sequence, than the same kind of ills can prove, when inflicted on the common teguments of the rest of the body. Passing over incised wounds, which have no particularity, Mr. Pott proceeds immediately to lacerated and punctured wounds. “ The former may be reduced to two kinds, viz. those in which the scalp, though torn, or unequally divided, still keeps its natural situation, and is not stript nor separated from the cranium, to any con- siderable distance beyond the breadth of the wound; and those, in which it is considerably detached from the parts it ought to cover. The first of these, if simple, and not combined with the symptoms, or appearances of any other mis- chief, do not require any particular or different treatment, from what the same kind of wounds require on all other, parts;” but, with respect to those, in which the scalp is separated and detached from the parts it ought to cover, Mr. Pott makes no scruple of declaring it as his opinion, that its preservation ought always to be attempted, unless it be so torn as to be abso- lutely spoiled, or there are manifest present symptoms of other mischief. In former days, the excision of the lacerated and detached scalp was the general practice; but Mr. Pott had so often made the experiment of endeavouring to preserve the torn piece, and so often succeeded, that he recommended it as a thing always to be attempted, even though a part of the cranium were perfectly bare. Here I may remark, that all practitioners now invariably avoid cutting away the scalp, ~ even in the circumstances, in which such prac- tice was allowed by Pott. By spoiled, this emi- nent writer must mean so injured as necessarily to slough afterwards. However, as no harm re- sults from taking the chance of its not slough- ing, which never can be with certainty foretold; and as the excision of the part is painful, and productive of no benefit, even if sloughing must follow, such operation is, in every point of view, hurtful and wrong. With respect to other mis- chief, as a reason, the examination of the era* nium, and even the application of the trephine^ never require any of the scalp to be cut away. See Trephine. Let the surgeon, therefore, free the torn piece from all dirt, or foreign bodies, and restoro