288 CATARACT. cataract. It is by no means uncommon, and is attended with the following characteristic sym- ptoms. The colour of the opacity close to the uvea, is partly chalk-white, partly like that of mother-of-pearl, and, in many places, both these colours can be evidently seen disposed one over the other, that of mother-of-pearl, however, being always most superficial. Exposure of the eye to the most vivid light scarcely causes any motion of the iris, but the pupil is circular, without any angles in it. After the application of the extract of henbane, the iris contracts again exceedingly slowly, and the pupil is long in returning to its former diameter. Besides the obliteration of the posterior chamber, the anterior one itself is mostly diminished, in consequence of the iris being pushed towards the cornea by the very large size of the cataract, and hence, the sensation of light is very indistinct. The capsulo-lenticular cataract is not unfre- quently the consequence of a slow inflammatory process in the iris, the lens and its capsule; and hence, several varieties of this case, and its not unfrequent combination with a spurious cataract; all which different modifications, says Beer, should be correctly understood previously to an opera- tion, in order to form a just prognosis of its event, and to know what method of operating ought to be adopted. Of these varieties the first is the capsulo-lenti- cular cataract, conjoined with slight depositions of new matter upon the anterior capsule of the lens. These after-formations upon the front layer of the capsule, as Beer calls them, put on very different appearances, and accordingly receive various ap- pellations. For instance, the marbled capsulo- lenticular cataract, when the chalk-white new formed substances upon the anterior layer of the capsule are so arranged as to resemble the varie- gated appearance of marble. The window, or lat- tice capsulo-lenticular cataract, when the new de- posited substances cross each other, leaving darker coloured interspaces. The stellated capsulo-len- ticular cataract, when the new matter runs in concentric streaks towards the middle of the pupil. The central-capsulo-lenticular cataract, when a single, elevated, white, shining point is formed on the anterior capsule, while the rest of this mem- brane is tolerably clear, and the lens not com- pletely opaque. The dotted capsulo-lenticular cataract, when the front layer of the capsule presents several distinct unconnected depositions on its surface. The half-cataract, or cataracta capsulo-lenticularis dimidiata, when one half of the front layer of the capsule is covered with a white deposit. In all these, and some other examples, says Beer, the lens is found to be converted to its very nucleus into a gelatinous, or milky substance. The second variety of the capsulo-lenticular cataract, pointed out by Beer, is the encysted, indicated by its snow-white colour; sometimes lying so close to the uvea, as to push the iris forward towards the cornea; and, at other tiroes, appearing to be at a distance from the uvea. These circumstances, as Beer remarks, almost always depend upon the position of the head; for, when this is inclined forwards, the cataract readily assumes a globular form, and projects considerably towards the anterior chamber. Fre- quently, this variety of the capsulo-lenticular cataract constitutes the kind of case, to which the epithets, tremulous or shaking and swimming, or* floating, are applied. According to Beer, the reason crl such unsteadiness in the cataract is owing to the broken, or very slight connexion of’ the capsule of the lens with the neighbouring; textures. Hie same author has never seen any! case of this kind, which had not been preceded by a violent concussion of the eye, or adjacent part of the head. Both layers of the capsule are | opaque, and sometimes considerably thickened. The third variety of the capsulo-lenticular cata-, ract, described by Beer, is the pyramidal, or conical, which is one of the rarer forms of the disease, and always brought on by violent internal inflammation of the eye, especially affecting the lens, its capsule, and the iris. It may be known by a white, almost shining, conical, more or less, projecting new formed substance, which grows from the centre of the anterior layer of the cap- sule, and is almost in close contact with the pu- [ pillary margin of the iris. Hence, the iris is > always quite motionless, and the pupil angular. . Sometimes, this growth from the capsule extends itself so far into the anterior chamber, as nearly to touch the inner surface of the cornea, and some- times actually to adhere firmly to it: a circum- stance, says Beer, which is very constant in the j conical staphyloma of the cornea, though not dis- coverable till the operation is performed. The ; power of discerning light is feeble and indistinct, j and sometimes entirely abolished. The fourth variety of the capsulo-lenticular I cataract is that which is covered with a dry shell, I or husk. Though principally met with in young t children, it is not one of the most uncommon af- i fections in adults, and in the former, it is often falsely regarded as a congenital complaint When this cataract is extracted either from children, ; or grown-up persons, Beer says, that the dried shrivelled capsule is always found round the I equally dry nucleus of the lens, like a husk, or j shell. In children, however, he says, that the ! nucleus of the lens is often scarcely perceptible, f while, in adults, it is always of considerable size, and this may be the reason, why this cataract in children does not present so bright a yellow- white colour, as it does in grown-up persons. In infants, in which it is frequently seen in the first weeks of their existence, it is manifestly produced by a slow and neglected inflammation of the lens and its capsule, arising from too strong light. In adults, the inflammation, exciting ibis form of cataract, is always owing to external violence; yet Beer supposes, that a considerable diminution of cohesion between the capsule and the adjacent textures must likewise have a prin- cipal share in bringing on the disease, which) in grown-up persons, is constantly preceded by a concussion of the eye-ball, from the cut of a whip, the lash of a horse’s tail, &c. Professor Schmidt had never seen this kind of cataract, ex- cept in boys and girls, who in their early child- hood had been afflicted with convulsions; and hence, he thought, that the cause of the disease was owing to a partial loosening of the capsule from its natural connexions by the violence of the convulsive paroxysms (Abhand.ung w»er Nuchstuar und Iritis nach Staur. perutionen, H ’en' 1801, 4fn.j However, Beer assures us, that be has seen infants, scarcely two months old, affected