404 EAR. different species of disease affecting the laby- rinth :—1. Disease of the fenestra ovalis, and fe- nestra rotunda, as ulceration, thickening, &c. 2. Malformation of these apertures. 3. Mal- formation of the labyrinth. 4. Inflammation of the nervous membrane, which lines its cavities. 5. Alteration of the liquor of Cotunni. 6. De- ficiency of the same fluid. 7. Affections of the nerve of hearing. No doubt deafness (and that kind of it which so frequently foils the most skilful men) often arises from an insensible state of the portio mollis of the auditory nerve, or of the surfaces, on which its filaments are spread. This affection is analogous to the amaurosis, or gutta serer.a, in which, though every part of the eye may seem to possess its natural structure, sight is lost, be- cause the rays of light only strike against a paralytic, or insensible retina. Mr.' Saunders dissected the ears of two deaf patients, with the greatest care, but could not discover the least deviation from the natural structure. In the com- mencement of deafness from a paralytic affection of the auditory nerve, Mr. A. Cooper remarked, that the secretion of cerumen was diminished, and, when the deafness became worse, was totally suppressed. And another particular symptom of paralysis of the auditory nerve, pointed out by the same author, is the patient’s inability to hear the sound of a watch placed between the incisor teeth. With respect to the causes of a paralytic af- fection of the auditory nerve, they are mostly buried in great obscurity, and some of them pro- bably depend upon congenital imperfection of the nerve, or brain itself. It seems, however, that a part of the causes, to which we allude, act mechanically, as an extravasation of blood, a steatoma, or an exostosis; while others operate on the ear by sympathy, as is the case when deafness is produced by the presence of worms in the bowels. Mr. Saunders remarks, that all the diseases of the internal ear may be denominated nervous deafness; the term, in this sense, embracing every disease, the seat of which is in the nerve, or parts containing the nerve. Nervous deafness is attended with various complaints in different cases, noises in the head of sundry kinds, the murmuring of water, the hissing of a boiling kettle, rustling of leaves, blowing of wind, &c. Other patients speak of a beating noise, cor- responding with the pulse, and increased by bodily exertion, in the same degree as the action of the heart. (Saunders, p. 47.) According to this author, there is a syphilitic species of nervous deafness, attended with a sensation of some of the above peculiar noises: and one case is related, in which the hearing was completely restored, in five weeks, by a mer- curial course. Mr. Saunders relieved several cases of ner- vous deafness by confining patients to low diet, giving them calomel freely, repeated doses of sulphate of soda, magnesia, sometimes twice, sometimes thrice, a week, or according to cir- cumstances, and applying blisters behind the ears at intervals of a week. The plan requires per- severance. Electricity has been highly recommended for the cure of nervous deafness, though the prospect of benefit from it must entirely depend upon the nature of the cause of the infirmity. It is allowed to be sometimes useful in cases of incomplete paralysis of the auditory nerve; but, it cannot be of any service where the Eustachian tube, the cavity of the tympanum, or the mastoid cells, are obstructed. It is set down as hurtful, when the patients are very irritable, and subject to vertigo, bleeding from the nose, great determina- tion of blood to the head, &c. ( Diet , des Sciences Med. T. 33, />. 124.) The evidence, in favour of the efficacy of galvanism, is still more scanty and questionable. Whether in certain cases of deafness from torpor of the auditory nerve, the introduction of tonic injections into the cavity of the tympanum, through the Eustachian tube, will answer in the manner stated by a late writer, future experience must determine. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 38, p. 120—121.) This article, I think, may be usefully con- cluded with a few general, but sensible, observa- tions on the various kinds of deafness, made by a modern writer. According to Professor Rosen- thal, all the disorders of the sense of hearing may be comprised under three principal forms. 1. Deafness (Surditas, Cophosis), in which the faculty of hearing articulated sounds is completely annihilated. 2. Hardness of hearing (Dysceciu), in which this faculty is so diminished, that articulated sounds cannot be heard, without the assistance of a particular apparatus. 3. Alteration, or diminution of hearing (Para- cusis), in which the faculty of hearing articulated sounds, in the natural way, is imperfect for want of precision. 1. Deafness, Rosenthal distinguishes into two degrees, the first of which is marked by an abso- lute impossibility of hearing at all; the second, by a power of still distinguishing certain sounds, as whistling, the vowels, &c. The first is usually congenital, and a cause of dumbness. The discrimination of these two degrees, Rosenthal considers of great importance in practice, and especially in institutions for the deaf and dumb; because the exceedingly fine sense of touch, with which deaf persons are some- times gifted, is apt to be mistaken for the faculty of hearing. This fact is illustrated by some in- teresting experiments made by Pfingsten on deaf and dumb persons. (Vieljaefo iye Efuhrung neber die Gehoerfehler dec Taubstutnmen. Kiri, 1802, p. 32.) A deaf and dumb girl, who was at needlework in a room near the house-door, re- gularly gave notice whenever it was opened or shut. As the door was furnished with a little bell, which rung loud enough whenever the door moved to be plainly heard in the neigh- bouring room, and, with the exception of this noise, no other impulse nor shock could be di- stinguished, Pfingsten was surprized at the cir- cumstance. Desirous of ascertaining how the girl really knew about the movements of the door, he caused the bell to be rung with great force without the door being opened: the child was perfectly unconscious of the noise. The beU' was afterwards kept still, while a person opened and shut the door so softly, that Pfingsten him- self could not hear it; yet, the child instantly gave warning, that somebody had entered. The