134 ANEURISM. extraneous substances, which cannot fail to be Physiiilvuiques et Pratiques sur VAneurisme, &r. a source of serious irritation and mischief. I Hto. Geneve, 1802.) shall therefore take leave of the proposal of When an artery is laid bare, and detached removing the ligature on the third, or fourth from its natural connexions, and the middle of day, or any other particular day, withexpressing such detached portion tied with a single ligature, my belief, that, if there were only the following as was Mr. Hunter’s practice, Mr. Abernetby objection to the plan, it would never be adopted conceived, that the vessel, so circumstanced, in this country; namely, the advocates for this would necessarily inflame, and be verv likely practice are necessarily obliged to renounce the to ulcerate. The occurrence of bleeding from infinite advantage of bringing the edges of the this cause at first led to a practice, which this wound together directly after the operation, gentleman justly censures, viz. applying a second Had the suggestion of Dr. Jones proved in- ligature above the first, and leaving it loose, variably correct, and the ligature admitted of but ready to be tightened, in case of hemor- being withdrawn immediately after the inner rhage. As the second ligature, however, must coats of the vessel had been divided by it, the keep a certain portion of the artery separated case would have been very different, as there from the surrounding parts, and must, as an would then have been no foreign body at all left in extraneous substance, irritate the inflamed vessel, the wound; the parts might have been imme- it must make its ulceration still more apt to diately brought together with the greatest chance follow. The great object, therefore, which Mr. of union by the first intention, and no sub- Abernethy insisted upon, was that of applying sequent disturbance either of the artery, or of the ligature close to that part of the artery, the wound, would have been incurred. which lies amongst its natural connexions; a The next practice, which I shall notice, is that just principle, the truth and utility of which still of applying two ligatures to the artery, and remain incontrovertible, though there may be a cutting it through in the interspace. This sug- better way of accomplishing what Mr. Abernethy gestion may be said to be as ancient as the time intended, than the measures, which this gentle- of Celsus, who has advised this method to be man was led to recommend, followed in the treatment of a wounded artery : The peculiarity in Mr. Abernethv’s first “ Quce (urlerice) sang-uinem fund tint apprehen- operation consisted in applying two ligatures flender, circuque id quod ictum est duobus locis round the artery, close to where it was sur- deligandee intercidendceque sunt, ut in se ipse rounded with its natural connexions. For this coeunt, et nihilhominus ora reclusa hnbeant.” purpose, he passed two common sized ligatures (De Medicina, Lib. 5, c. 26, § 21.) The fact beneath the femoral vessels, and having shifted is curious, though I mention it without the least one upwards, the other downwards, as far as intention of detracting from the great merits of these vessels were detached, he tied both the several modern surgeons, that the Greeks were ligatures firmly. acquainted with the practice, lately recommended, The event of this case was successful. An of tying and dividing the trunk of the artery uneasy sensation of tightness, however, extend- high above the tumour, as will appear from the ing from the wound down to the knee, and con- following extract: (AEtii.4.Serm.TetrA.cap. 10.) tinuing for many days after the operation, made At vero quod in cubiti cavitate Jit aneurisma, hoc Mr. Abernethy determine, in any future case, mo do per chirurgiam aggredimur: primum arteria to divide the artery between the two ligatures, svperne ab ala ad cubitum per internam brachii so as to leave it quite lax. parte simplieem sectiunem, tribus, aut quatuor Mr. Abernethy next relates a case of popliteal digitis infra atam, per longitudinem fucimus, ubi aneurism, for which Sir Charles Blicke operated, maxime ad tactum arteiia occurrit: atque ea and divided the artery between the ligatures. paulatim denudata, deinceps incumbentia corpus- The man did not experience the above kind of cubi sensim exconumus ac separamus, et ipsam uneasiness; and no hemorrhage ensued when urteriam cceco uncino attractam duobus Jili vin- the ligatures came away, although there was culis probe adstringimus, mediamque inter duo reason to think, that the whole arterial system had vincula dissecamus; et sectionem polline tliuris a tendency to aneurism, as there was also another explemus, ac linamentis inditis congmas deliga- tumour of this kind in the opposite thigh. tinnes adliibemus. Afterwards we are directed The reasoning, which induced this gentleman ; to open the aneurismal tumour at the bend of to revive this ancient practice, was ingenious; the elbow, and when the blood has been eva- for, when the artery was tied with two ligatures, cuated, to tie the artery twice, and divide it and divided, in the foregoing manner, it was again. If the ancients had only omitted the argued, that it would be quite lax, possess its latter part of their operation, they would abso- natural attachments, and be as nearly as possible lutely have left nothing to be discovered by the in the same circumstances as a tied artery upon moderns. he face of a stump. Strictly speaking, however, This method of applying two ligatures to the as Mr. Hodgson first pointed out, an artery artery, and dividing the vessel between them, tied in two places, and divided in the interspace, was revived in France about half a century ago cannot be regarded as placed exactly in the by Tenon, who, as well as some later surgeons, same condition, as an artery tied in amputa- was totally unacquainted with its antiquity. (See tion. In the latter case, the retraction of the Pellet aids Clinique Chirurgicule, T. 1, p. 192.) vessel corresponds with that of the surrounding At one time, it had also modern advocates in parts, which are divided nt the same instant, Mr. Abernethy and Professor Maunoir, of Ge- and therefore its relative connexions stand as neva, each of whom supposed the plan an in- before the operation. But, in the operation for vention of his own. (See Surssicul arut Physinl. aneurism, the retraction of the artery takes Essays, Purl 3, 8ro. Land. 1797, and Mdmoircs place, without b ing attended with a correspond-