AMPUTATION. 31 contraction of the integuments. Dr. Hennen savs, that he lias seen only one example, and it va's successfully treated by loosening the band- acre, and moistening the dressings with cold water: (Oh Military Surgery, p. ‘264, Ed. 2.) Doubts may therefore be entertained, whether the cause was the pressure of the integuments or of the roller, on the veins. In Mr. Guthrie’s truly practical work, there are some excellent remarks on the hemorrhages, which, in the irritable and sloughing state of a stump, frequently take place from the small branches, or from the main trunks of the arteries, in consequence of ulceration. It is (says he) not always easy to discover the bleeding vessel, or, when* discovered, to secure it on the face of the stump; for, as the ulcerative process has not ceased, and the end of the artery, which is to be secured, is not sound, no healthy action takes place. The ligature very soon cuts its way through, or is thrown oil', and the hemorrhage returns; or, some other branch is opened, and another ligature is required, which is equally uncertain; and under this succession of ligatures and hemorrhages, the patient dies. Here, cut- ting down to the principal artery, in preference to another amputation, has often succeeded; but, under certain circumstances, it fails, and amputation becomes ultimately necessary. At the same time, it is allowed, that this operation may also fail. On the whole, Mr. Guthrie professes himself to be an advocate in most cases for tying the artery in the first instance; and if this proceeding should not answer, he would then amputate. However, the practice of taking up the artery in these cases, he thinks, should not be adopted indiscriminately, the doc- trines of aneurism not being here applicable, because there is a wounded vessel, with an ex- ternal opening. “ In the thigh, the operation is less certain, than in the arm, and especially, if it is not the main artery that bleeds; for, the branch, from which the hemorrhage proceeds may come from the profunda, and tying the artery in the groin on such opinion would be doing a serious operation, and one, which pro- bably would not succeed; for, the anastomosing branches would restore the circulation in the stump in a short time, and again establish the bleeding. If it is the femoral artery that bleeds, and the ligature is applied .high, it is very liable to a return of hemorrhage. To obviate these difficulties, the part, from which the bleeding comes should be well studied, and the shortest distance from the stump carefully noted, at winch compression on the artery commands the bleeding; and, at this spot, the ligature should be applied, provided it is not within the sphere of the inflammation of the stump.” (On Gun shut IImolds, p. 105-106.) Thus far the advice seems to me correct and valuable; but, where the hemorrhage could be restrained by taking “P the artery in the groin, though not lower down, I doubt the propriety of preferring ampu- tation to this other far less severe operation, admitting that the efficiency of a ligature above . e< profunda, has been proved in the manner judiciously recommended by Mr. Guthrie, viz. by^means of pressure. Ihe following is the counsel offered by Mr. Ilf; 7 to a case of this nnture. “ When we are under the necessity of ampu- tating a limb, that has suffered great contusion, though the operation is performed upon a part apparently sound, the wound sometimes becomes sloughy and ill conditioned. No good granula- tions arise to cover the extremities of the ar- teries; but the ligatures cut through these vessels, or becoming loose, cease to make a sufficient pressure upon them, and hence re- peated hemorrhages ensue. This is a dan- gerous state for a patient; for, if the vessels are taken up afresh with the needle, the hemorr- hage will now and then return in the course of two, or three days. In such eases, the applica- tion of dry sponge, cut tranversely, as directed by Mr. White (Canes in Surgery), has been found singularly useful, and has saved the life of the patient. But, a constant pressure must be kept upon the pieces of sponge, by the fingers of a succession of assistants, till granulations begin to arise upon the stump, and the prospect of future hemorrhage disappears. This method is of the greatest importance after amputation on the thigh, or leg, where the great vessels are deeply seated. In the arm, above the elbow, where the vessels are more superficial, the great artery may be taken up, with a portion of mus- cular flesh, above the surface of the stump, by making first an incision through the integu- ments. My colleague, Mr. Logan, has done this twice within the last year, with complete success, when repeated ligatures, applied in the usual way, had failed. “ In the morbid sloughy state of the stump, above-mentioned, the application of lint, soaked in a liquid, composed of equal quantities of lemon- juice and rectified spirit of wine, has been found very advantageous, and has caused it to put on soon a healthy aspect.’’ (P. 536, 537, edit. 2.) ON PROTRUSION OF THE BONE. It is clearly proved by the observations of M. Louis, that this disagreeable consequence may be generally prevented by taking care to divide the loose muscles first, and (alter their complete retraction, which will be favoured by no band, nor tourniquet, being applied round the limb),-by observing to divide with a bistoury the muscles which are adherent to the bone; for instance, the crural muscle, and the point of adhesion of the vasti and triceps at the posterior spine of the femur. By this method, the bone may be very easily sawn three finger-breadths higher than it can be, if no attention be paid to beginning with the division of the loose muscles, and concluding with that of such as are more at- tached to the bone. The protrusion of the bones will never take place, so long as they are immediately encom- passed with the fleshy substance of the muscles: this proposition is incontestable. The state of the skin, whether longer or shorter, conduces nothing to this protrusion ; nor will the incon- venience be prevented by drawing the skin up- ward. and preserving ns much of it ns possitde. (See Mem. sue La SmlLie de I’Os apres I’amputa- tion in Mem. de t'Acad, de Chirurgie, lam. 5, p. 273, edit, in 12mn.) As Mr. Guthrie has correctly observed, a protrusion of the bone, after sloughing ot the