URINARY CALCULI. 1093 so as to form a hernia, a stone is occasionally si- tuated in the displaced portion of it. This circum- stance lias the same effect, as the encysted state of a calculus; for the foreign body is thereby fixed, and it cannot be propelled towards the neck of the bladder at the period, when the urine is dis- charged. Also, in eases of prolapsus uteri, when the bladder is drawn downwards, a stone has sometimes been found lodged at the lowest part of it. The possibility of the complication of a calculus, with such displacements of the bladder, ought to be well remembered, since, if the nature of the case be detected, its treatment becomes materially simplified. The symptoms of a stone in the bladder have been detailed in the article Lithotomy, and there- fore need not here be repeated. They are all so equivocal, and bear so great a resemblance to the effects of several other disorders, that they can- not be depended upon, and consequently no well- informed surgeon will venture to pronounce po- sitively, that there is a calculus in the bladder, unless he can distinctly feel it with a sound. (See Lithotomy and Sounding.) As for the operation, if the surgeon cannot plainly feel the calculus immediately before he commences the incisions, it ought to be postponed. Notwithstanding the laudable zeal, with which various distinguished physicians and surgeons of the present day, have applied themselves to the consideration of the causes of urinary calculi, tlie subject is yet in great obscurity. The con- jectures, which have been started, respecting the influence of particular kinds of food, drink, air, and habits of life, are all of them liable to such objections, as throw considerable doubts on their correctness, and sometimes amount to a decided refutation of them. If a foreign body be introduced into a cavity, to which the urine has access, whatever may be the nature of the immersed substance, it always becomes after a time incrusted with calculous matter, though it undergoes no chemical change in its composition. In such cases, it is found (See Forties on Gravel and Gout, 8vo. Lond. J793, and Marcet on the Chemical Hist., fyc. of Calculous Disorders, 8vo. Lond. 1817.) that the concretion mostly, if not always, consists of the earthy phosphates. Here, the operation of any particular diathesis is beyond all suspicion, because the foreign body, which forms the nucleus, would lead to the production of a cal- culus in all descriptions of patients. There are some countries, where patients with calculi are tolerably numerous; and other parts of the world, where the disease is rare, or never met with ; and yet the difference cannot always be accounted for by any geographical circum- stance, which is constant, or any definable pe- culiarity of constitution, climate, diet, or mode of life. One fact, however, I believe is certain, viz. the uniform rarity of the disease in very hot countries. In tropical climates, urinary calculi are almost unknown, and, as Dr. Marcet observes, the testimony of Dr. Scott on this point, who long resided in India, must be con- sidered valuable. Dr. Scott affirms, that, be- tween the tropics, he never met with a single instance of the formation of a stone in the .... « . » t 1 _ r cured by climate. (See Marcet on the Chemical History and Med. Treatment of Calculous Disorders, Chap. 2, 8vo. Loud. 1817.) Yet, as calculi frequently form on various nuclei, bullets, pieces of bougies, &e. I conceive, that, even in India, calculi will some day or another be found to originate from this cause, though not perhaps from diathesis. Urinary calculi are said also to be very un- common in Spain and Africa, though patients with gravel are numerous in Majorca, which lies between them. (Magendie, Rccherehcs sur les Causes, <^c. dc la Gravellc, p. 31, 8vo. Paris, 1818.) The usual belief is, that calculi are most frequent in damp, cold countries, like England and Holland, but, that in such other parts of the world, as are either very hot, or cold, the disease is rare. However, in every estimate of this kind, the number of the in- habitants of the countries, or districts in ques- tion, is always an essential thing for consider- ation, because the proportion of stone-patients, in a given number of individuals, is invariably rather small; and, therefore, in referring to the rarity of such patients in very' cold countries, it is to be considered, whether the fact may not be, in some measure, ascribable to the fewness of the inhabitants. The state of medicine and surgery, in the countries, from which the information is transmitted, is likewise another thing for con- templation, inasmuch as patients are not likely to be reported as suffering from, or dying of stone, where the nature of diseases is not scientifically observed, morbid anatomy is uncultivated, and the operation of sounding never attempted. However, as our East India native regiments are furnished with excellent surgeons, I Consider it well proved, that in those regiments the dis- ease is uncommon, for otherwise the statement would no doubt have been contradicted by* them. The fact seems therefore well established, in re- lation to the East Indies. At the same time, the ages of the individuals, to whom any cal- culation applies, is always to be taken into con- sideration, before any inference be drawn respect- ing the cause of the rarity of calculi, because, if the disease be rare amongst soldiers in India, it is also rare amongst soldiers in Europe, and therefore climate would not explain the fact in both parts of the world. But, probably, the re- collection, that common soldiers are neither children, nor men, above the middle period of life, and that the first formation of stone in youths, adults, and middle aged persons, is un- common, unless some extraneous substance hap- pen to enter the bladder and form the nucleus, may furnish a reason for the infrequency of the disease amongst soldiers, applicable perhaps to such individuals in every country. And, that the children of soldiers, like those of other persons, are not exempt from the disease, I know very well, having had occasion myself to operate upon a patient of this kind during my service with the army. The preceding consideration also of the general age of sailors in the royal navy, and of the little chance there must be of a boy with stone being sent to sea, or of any sailor being admitted oil board of a King’s ship with that disorder, unless 1 . ...Sir..!!.. .... noonlr-rl In, iht* tlinil Vlimfifflf.