INFLAMMATION. divided into healthy and ujtUeulthy. Of the first, there can only be one kind, though divisi- ble into different stages; of the second, there must be an infinite number of species, according to the peculiarities of different constitutions, and the nature of diseases, which are numberless. > (Hunter.) Another general division is into common and specific inflammation, the latter term implying, that the affection has some strongly marked particularity about it, rendering it, in some degree independent of such circum- stances, as would control and regulate the pro- gress of common inflammation. Such are ve- nereal, variolous, vaccine, erysipelatous, gouty, and rheumatic inflammations, &c. Inflamma- tion may also be divided into the acute and chronic. This division of the subject is one of the most ancient, and seems to have obtained the sanction of all the best surgical writers. Healthy inflammation is invariably quick in its progress, for which reason, it must always rank as an acute species of the affection. However, there are numerous inflammations, controlled by a dis- eased principle, which are quick in their pro- gress, and are, therefore, to be considered as acute. Chronic inflammation, which will be treated of, when I come to the subject of tumors, is always accompanied with diseased action. My friend, Mr. James, of Exeter, justly im- pressed with the utility, which would result from a good nosological arrangement of inflammation, has lately attempted to supply what must gene- rally be allowed to be a great desideratum. To the division of inflammation into the acute, sub- acute, or chronic, lie objects, that, in many in- stances, these are merely different stages of the same disease; The arrangement into the adhe- sive, suppurative, ulcerative, or gangrenous inflammation, he does not altogether approve, because it is merely founded on the modes, in which either different, or, in some instances, the same kinds of inflammation, terminate. Under the heads of phlegmonous, erysipelatous, and gangrenous inflammation, he argues, that dis- eases of the most opposite nature have been in- discriminately brought together. The disposi- tion to terminate in gangrene, he admits, will afford a basis for subdivision, but not for pri- mary separation. Mr. James makes some judi- cious observations on the arrangement of the kinds of inflammation, according to the elemen- tary tissue, in which they occur, as proposed by Dr. Carmichael Smith, Pinel, and Bichat. The tissues in question are five, and the doctrine sup- poses, that the inflammation of each is essentially different. The first is phlegmonous inflamma- tion, which affects the cellular membrane, includ- ing the parenchyma of the several viscera. The second is inflammation of serous membranes. The third, of mucous membranes. The fourth, which is named erysipelatous, is of the skin. And the fifth, termed rheumatic, belongs to fibrous structure. That inflammations differ ma- terially from the circumstance of their affecting one of these elementary tissues, rather than ano- ther, Mr. James freely admits; but, the follow- ing objections appear to him fatal to this system, if they are true. !• Different kinds of inflam- mation are liable to occur in the same tissue. 2. The same kind of inflammation is often met with in different tissues. 3, The same inflammation may be transferred from one to another; an ar- gument, however, on which he lays less stress, as being difficult of direct proof. (See Ohs. on the different Species of Inflammation, p. 3—7, Hvo. Loud. 1821.) Although difference of structure unquestionably accounts for some of the varieties in the appearance and character of inflammation, it will not sufficiently explain the principal diversities of this affection to be taken as the foundation of a nosological arrangement, not only for the reasons pointed out by Mr. James, but because the common distinctions cf inflammation at present in vogue, and some of which at least are obvious and striking, cannot be at all solved by any reference merely to tex- ture. Nor did this theory satisfy Mr. Hunter, who observed, that, if it were true, “ we should soon be made acquainted with all the different inflammations in the same person, at the same time, and even in the same wound. For in- stance, in an amputation of a leg, where we cut through the skin, cellular membrane, muscle, tendon, periosteum, bone, and marrow, the skin should give us inflammation of its kind, the cel- lular membrane of its kind; the muscles of theirs, &c. &c. but, we find, it is the same in- flammation in them all.” However, though Mr. Hunter did not admit the possibility of referring the different kinds of inflammation to peculiari- ties of texture, his doctrines assign to this cause considerable influence over every form of the disorder, as will be presently explained. The mode of reasoning, adopted by Mr. 'James, leads him to propose; 1st. The division of inflammations into two great classes, accord- ing to their disposition either to be limited by the effusion of organizable coagulable lymph, or to spread. 2dly. The orders are established on the principle of the degree of connexion of the organ with the vital functions of the animal; another cause, which exerts a predominant in- fluence over the character of the inflammation; acts invariably, and, cceteris paribus, in the same degree; the constitutional sympathy being in proportion to the danger, the difficulty of resist- ing that danger, and of repairing the mischief done. 3dly. The genera are founded on the ori- ginal disposition of inflammations to have parti- cular modes of termination : thus, says Mr. James, in boil and whitlow, it is to suppurate; in carbuncle, to slough; and in mumps to re- solve ; and this disposition is so strong, that it is very difficult to procure any other termination. It may happen, however, that there shall be more, than one mode, in which it (the inflam- mation) is disposed to terminate, as in either re- solution, or suppuration, in sphacelus, or ulcera- tion, &c. (Op. cit. p. 13 — 16.) Mr. James conceives, “ that these general principles will perhaps afford a sufficient basis for such an ar- rangement, as shall be both natural and useful in its application to all kinds of common inflamma- tion ; gout, rheumatism, and scrofula having pe- culiarities, which require them to be separated. Also with respect to inflammations, arising from external injuries* as they are more simple in their nature, may take plaee in sound constitutions, and are accompanied with disorganizations, which do not exist in other cases, Mr. James considers them as inaterially different. This au- thor purposely excludes front his classification