10G2 TUMOR. this question, are noticed in the article Aneurism, where the aneurism hy anastomosis falls under consideration. It will there ho seen, that the re- sult of this experiment is not sure of permanently ■repressing the growth of a tumor of this last kind, even when it lias this effect at first. This uncertainty will, no doubt, incline many practi- tioners to prefer the bold method of extirpation. Yet, others will perceive, that such an operation, notwithstanding its success in a few examples, is dreadfully severe, and rnusi of itself in the ge- nerality of cases have fatal consequences. They will also be encouraged, in any similar instance, to try the effect of the ligature, by the cure which Sir A. Cooper accomplished, of an enor- mous cutaneous enlargement of the lower ex- tremity by lying the artery in the groin. Indeed, 1 am sure, that as the improvements in modern surgery advance, the plan of curing tumors by cutting oil' their main supply of blood, will be much more extensively adopted, than has hitherto been the case. In this way, the surgeon may attempt the dispersion of many tumors, which could not be meddled with in any other manner, and which, if left to themselves, must have a fatal termination. Tumors Encysted. These, which are com- monly named wens, consist of a cyst, which is filled with different substances. When the con- tained matter is fatty, it is termed a steatomu ; when somewhat like honey, mcliceris; when like pap, atheroma. These are the three species, into which writers usually divide encysted tu- mors. However, some of these swellings do not conform to either of the above distinctions, as their contents are subject to very great vari- ety indeed, and are occasionally of an earthy, bony, or horny nature. Some encysted tumors of the latter description occasionally burst, and assume the appearance of horns, by the gradual projection of the matter secreted within their cysts, f See Sir Evcrard Home's Obs. on the G rowth of Horny Excrescences, in Phil. Tran*, for 1791.) I remember seeing an excrescence of this kind removed some years ago from the scrotum of a man in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Sir James Earle performed the operation, and, if I am not mistaken, the preparation of the dis- ease is now in Mr. Abernethy’s museum. But, still more remarkable specimens of such excres- cences are preserved in the Anatomical Museum of St. Thomas’s Hospital; one in particular, which resembles a ram’s horn in shape, and was removed from a gardener’s head at Kingston, by Dr. Roots. A further account of the case is given in Rees’s Cyclopaedia, article Horny Ex- crescence- I suppose every body in London has now seen in the British Museum the horn deposited there as a curiosity, and which, with another of the same size, grew upon the head of a human subject. What is equally curious, hairs are not unfrequcntly found growing in the cavities of encysted tumors, (Dclpcch Precis dcs Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 412); and even teeth, more or less perfectly formed, have been strangely met with in the same situations. An inteiesting specimen of the latter occurrence, in a double enevsted tumor in the orbit, was published some It is observed by Sir Astley Cooper, that it ,i when encysted tumors are situated upon the- temple, ami near the eyebrows, and other hairy parts, that they sometimes contain hairs: these, “ have no bulbs, nor canal, and differ therefore from those, which are produced in surfaces of. the body, which naturally form hair.” In sheep, the cysts sometimes contain wool. <Suyical Essays, Part 2, p. 239.) The manner, in which these horny excrescences are produced, is stated to be as follows: “ The horn begins to grow from the open surface of the cyst; at first, it is soft, but soon acquires considerable hardness; at first, it is pliant, but, after a few weeks, it as- sumes the character of horn.” {Vol. cit. p. 235; see also Home in Phil. Trans, for 1791.) Encysted tumors are generally of a roundish shape, and are more clastic than fleshy swellings. However, the latter circumstance depends very much upon the nature of their contents, and the thickness of their cysts. As far as my observa- tion extends, encysted tumors form more fre- quently on the head, than any other part; but, they are very frequently met with in all situations under the integuments, and sometimes in deeper places. Encysted tumors are also very often seen on the eyelids. According to Sir Astley Cooper, they are in general nearly globular, and, when seated on the head, feel very firm, but, upon the face, they are' attended with a fluctuation, more or less obscure. The skin, covering them, is generally uninfiamed; but, it is now and then streaked with blood-vessels,, which are larger, than those of the surrounding integuments. “ In the centre of the tumor on the skin, it often happens, that, in its early state, a black, or dark coloured spot may be seen, which sometimes continues through the whole course of the disease. In general, they are un- attended with pain, are never in themselves dan- gerous, and only require removal from the parts in which they occur, and the unseemly appear- ance they produce. They move readily within the cellular membrane, if they are free from in- flammation, but the skin in general does not easily move over them.” (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 230.) The greatest number of en- cysted tumors, which this experienced surgeon has met with in the same individual, was sixteen, situated upon the head; and he has seen nine in another patient, as many as which number.on one person I have seen myself. Four, five, aud six, as Sir Astley remarks, are not uncommon. The largest, which he has ever seen, was equal in size to an ordinary cocoa nut, and grew upon the head; but, in general, they are not more than one or two inches in diameter. He considers them in some degree hereditary, as he has often heard a patient observe; “ 1 have se- veral swellings upon ray head, and ray father (or my mother) had several.” They also frequently occur in several of the same family. (P. 231.) According to Sir Astley Cooper, when en- cysted tumors are dissected, some part of their surface is found firmly adhering to the skin, while other parts are connected to it merely by the cel- lular membrane. The cyst itself is imbedded more or less deeply in the cellular membrane, and its thickness is different in different parts of the