which is to be left in. The rest of the treat- ment consists in keeping the canal pervious, making it suppurate, and healing it with common applications. One essential caution, however, would be that of keeping the part dilated long after it had healed: otherwise, it might close again, and a repetition of the operation become necessary. This happened to Heister, as he himself apprises us, and it occurred to Iloon- liuysen in treating imperforations of the vagina. “If the cohesion of the parietes of the meatus auditorius externus were to extend to the tym- panum inclusively, the operation would be fruit- less; but, as it is impossible to ascertain this circumstance, before the attempt is made, the surgeon would incur no disgrace by relinquishing the operation, and giving up the treatment of an incurable disease. If, then, after the trocar were introduced to about the depth of the tympanum, the situation of which must be judged of by our anatomical knowledge, no cavity were met with, the operation should be abandoned ; and, if in these circumstances, any one were to impute the want of success to the inefficacy of surgery, or the unskilfulness of the surgeon, he would act very unfairly. “ It is also plain, that such an operation could cure a congenital deafness, only inasmuch as it might depend upon the imperforation; for, if there should exist, at the same time, in the in- ternal ear, any malformation, destructive of the power of the organ, the remedying of the exter- nal defect would be quite useless.” (Leschevin, in Prix del'Acad, de Chirurgie, Tom. 9, p. 127, 152.) We find, that this author entertains a great dread of wounding the tympanum, and certainly he is right in generally insisting upon the pru- dence of avoiding such an accident. It will appear, however, in the sequel of this article, that under certain circumstances, puncturing the tym- panum has been successfully practised, as a mode of remedying deafness. The operation, however, demands caution; for, if done so as to injure the connexion of the malleus with the ir.em- brana tympani, the hearing must ever afterwards be very imperfect. 3. Unusual smallness of the Meatus Auditorius Externus. Imperforation is not the only congenital im- perfection of the meatus auditorius; this passage is occasionally too narrow for the admission of a due quantity of the sonorous undulations, and the sense is of course weakened. Leschevin men- tions, that M. de la Metrie found this canal so narrow in a young person, that it could hardly admit a probe. What has been observed, con- cerning ‘the imperforation, is also applicable to this case. If it depends upon malformation of the bone, it is manifestly incurable; but, if it is owing to a thickening of the soft parts, within the meatus, hopes may be indulged of doing good by gradually dilating the passage by tents, which should be increased in size from time to time, and, lastly, making the patient wear for a considerable time, a tube, adapted to the part in shape. (Leschevin, in Prix <lc l’Acad, de Chi- rurgie, Tom.9,p. 132.) Mr. Earle has lately published a case, in which the diameter of the meatus auditorius was, con- siderably lessened by a thickening of the sur- rounding parts, and especially of the cuticle, attended with a discharge from the passage, and great impairment of hearing. A cure was effected by injecting into the passage a very strong solution of the nitrate of silver, which, in a few days, was followed by a detachment of the thickened portions of cuticle. This evacuation was assisted by throwing warm water into the passage. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vo/. 10, p. 411, <£c.) Boyer was consulted for a deafness, which arose from a malformation, which consisted of a flattening of the meatus, its oppo- site sides being for some extent in contact. The patient was advised to wear in the ear a gold tube of suitable shape, by which means he was enabled to hear perfectly well. 4. Faulty shape of the Meatus Audilorius Externus. Anatomy informs us, that this passage is naturally oblique, and somewhat winding; and natural philosophy teaches us the necessity of such obliquity, which multiplies the reflections of the sonorous uraves, and thereby strengthens the sense. This theory, says Leschevin, is con- firmed by experience ; for, there are persons, in whom the meatus auditorius is almost straight, and they are found to be hard of hearing. If there is any means of correcting this defect, it must be that of substituting, for the natural cur- vature of the passage, a curved and conical tube, which must be placed at the outside of the organ, just like a hearing trumpet. The acoustic in- strument, invented by Deckers, which is much more convenient, might also prove useful. (Op. cit. p. 133.) 5. Extraneous Substances, Insects, <S>r. in the Meatus Auditorius Externus. Foreign bodies met with in this situation are inert substances, which have been introduced by some external force ; insects, which have insi- nuated themselves into the passage; or the ceru- men itself, hardened in such a degree, as to ob- struct the transmission of the sonorous undula- tions. Worms, which make their appearance in the meatus auditorius, are always produced sub- sequently to ulcerations in the passage, or in the interior of the tympanum, and, very often, such insects are quite unsuspected causes of parti- cular symptoms. In the cases of surgery, published in 1778, by Acrel, there is an instance confirming the statement just offered. It is the : case of a woman, who, having been long afflicted with a hardness of hearing, was suddenly seized with violent convulsions, without any apparent 1 cause, and soon afterwards complained of an acute pain in the ear. This affection was fol- lowed by a recurrence of convulsions, which were j still more vehement. A small tent of fine linen, ; moistened with a mixture of oil and laudanum, wras introduced into the meatus auditories, and, on removing it the next day, several small round worms were observed upon it, and, from that pe- riod, all the symptoms disappeared. To this case, we shall add another from Morgagni. A young j woman consulted Valsalva, and told him, that when she was a girl, a worm had been discharged from her left ear; that another otic, about s.x I months ago, had also been discharged, very much I 398 EAll.