CANCER. 276 early stages of the complaint, recommended a method of practice, founded on his idea of the inflammatory nature of the disease. “ In the beginning of scirrhous affections of the breast and testis, the mode I have adopted of taking away blood, is by leeches repeatedly applied to the parts. In this course, however, I have often been interrupted by the topical inflammation, pro- duced by these animals, around the parts where they fastened. In delicate female habits, I have often lost a week, before I could proceed to the re-application of them. When the symptoms lead me to suspect the stomach, uterus, or any of the viscera, to be so affected, that the com- plaint either is, or, most probably, soon will be- come cancerous, I then have recourse to general bleedings. But, whether topical, or general, perseverance for a sufficient length of time, is necessary. Though the pulse never indicated such practice, yet the patients have not suffered by repeated bleedings; on the contrary, when they passed a certain time without losing blood, they felt a return of their symptoms, and of their own accord, desired to be bled again. To this plan of repeated bleedings, I joined a milk and vegetable diet, avoiding wine, spirits, and fer- mented liquors.” Mr. Fearon used also to keep the belly open, and employ saturnine applications. Of the method of treating cancer by pressure, I have spoken in another work, (First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vo1. 1), and therefore, in this place, I need merely repeat, that it is a practice, which none of the best modern surgeons think entitled to approbation. From the preceding accounts, we may infer, that scarcely any reliance is to be placed on any known remedy, or plan, in cases of real scirrhi, and ulcerated cancers. The operation is the only rational means of getting rid of the disease; and, to waste time, so as to allow the disorder to increase in a serious degree, merely for the sake of trying a train of unpromising medicines, is conduct, which is unworthy of a wise surgeon’s imitation. Perhaps, in early cases, it may be right to make trial of arsenic, cicuta, or preparations of iron. But, the practitioner should beware of devoting too much time to medicines, which will in all probability prove inadequate to the object, for which they are exhibited. Mr. Fearon’s method seems also warrantable, together with diet merely enough to support life; hut the punishment, attending a resignation to this last regimen, would be greater, than that of having the disease cut away, while the chance of efficacy would be much less. Upon the whole, therefore, the operation is what we should generally adopt, as the surest, and the safest means of getting rid of cancerous diseases. As I have before re- marked, the operation is always admissible, when every particle of the disease can be removed by it. Even large open cancers, if they can be en- tirely cut away, are often capable of being effectu- ally cured. The removal of cancerous disorders even in the slightest and most trivial cases, should always be effected with the scalpel, in preference to cau- stic ; the use of which, though sometimes it may succeed by producing a complete destruction of the diseased parts, causes severe agony, and, ip the event of its not acting sufficiently on all the diseased parts, often renders the complaint more aggravated, and kills the patient, and this in a very short space of time. In cases of cancer, the irritation generally occasioned by every application of the caustic kind, together with the pain and inflammation, which commonly ensue, ere strong objections. Plunket’s remedy, which is chiefly arsenic, is equally objectionable. Nor can you, at once, so certainly extirpate every atom of cancerous mis- chief with any caustic, as you can with the knife: for, with this, you immediately gain an ocular inspection of the surface surrounding the disease, so as to see and feel whether the disordered parts are completely removed, or whether any portion of the disorder requires a further employment of the instrument. With respect to the pain, that of caustics is infinitely greater, more intolerable, and more tedious, than that occasioned by the knife. When caustic also fails in destroying every particle of the disease at once, it almost, always tends to enlarge, in a very1 rapid way, the original boundaries of the mischief. For an account of the method of removing scirrhi and ulcerated cancers, see Mamma, Removal of. Much additional information, respecting cancers, is contained in the 4th Ed. of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vol. 1, 8w. 1819. Le Dran’s Operations in Surgery, p. 87, $;c. Edit. 2. B. Belt's Surgery, Vol. 2. Justamond's Account of the Methods pursued in the Treatment of Can- cerous and Scirrhous Disorders, 8vo. Load. 1 730; also his Surgical Tracts, 5f<v 8vo. Land 1789. James Hill, Cates in Surgery, 8vo. Edinh. 1772. Vindungus ah Harting, De Optima Cane run Mnmmarum extirpandi ratione. Alsdorf, 1720. (Haller, Disp. Chir.2, 509.) L. Rouppe, He Mor- bis Navigantium liber, acccdit Cos. de Efjectu Ei- tracticicuta; Storkianoin Cancrc. 8m. Lugd.1764. G. Douman, on the Nature, Ac., of a Scirrhus, 8m. Lond■ A. Slorch, An Essay on the Medical Nature of Hemlock, &c. 8vo. Lond. 1760. C. Molinarius Historia Mulie.ris a scirrho curater, 8m. Vindoh 1761. G. Tabor, He Canera Mammarum, cuir,- que nova extirpandi Methodo, Trajecti, 1721. C. Perry, Mechanical Account of the Hysteric Passion, Sc. with an Appendix on Cancer, 8rt£ Lond. 1755. Sir John Hill, plain and useful Directions for those who are afflicted with Can- cers, 2d Ed. 8m. Lond. G. A. Langguth, Pro- gramma de potissimis Cancri Mammarum Cavsis prudenter occupandis, JVilttmb. 1752. Ph. Fr. Gmelin el Achat. Gcertner, Specifca Mcthodus recentior cancrum sanundi, cj-c.., Tubingen, 1757. N. Zajfarini, Storia di due Mammelle DcmolitC nella di cui scirrosa sostanza sono stati trovati novt Aghi. 8vo. Venes. 1761. C. Petrus, Diss. sisters historiam rariorem mamma cancrosa, sanguinevt menstruum fundentis, methodo simpliciore sanater. (Frank. Del. Op. 10.) IF. Beckett, New Pis- emeries, relating to the Cure of Cancers, v herein a method of dissolving cancerous substance is re- commended, &c. 8 vo. Lond. 1711. IF- Norfard, Essay on the general Method oj' treating Cancer- ous Tumors, dj-c. 12mo. Land. 1753. R- Gnti An Essaii on Scirrhous Tumors and Cancers, Svo- Lond. 1759 ; also Practical Ohs. on Cancers, 4 r‘ 8m. J. Burrous, Practical Essay on < oncers, 8m. Lond. 1767. Chr. C. Lerche, Obs.de inner* Mammarum, 4to. Gott. 1777. F. Hopkins, * Scirrho ct Carcinomate, 8vo. Edinb. 1777. I