1 12* UTERUS, PROLAPSUS OR , tit' lapsus, is apt to be mistaken for fluor albus, or gonorrhoea. A woman may become pregnant, notwithstand- ing an incomplete prolapsus of the womb. The displacement may even take place at a more or less advanced period of gestation, (Portal dcs Accouchement,) while, in other still more un- common instances, the prolapsus has been re- marked to disappear, when the period oflabour drew near. Cases exemplifying both these facts, .-are related by Loder, ('Jo-urn• far die Chir. B. 2, p. 13,) by Saviard, Portal, (Mem. dc '■’Acad, dc Chir. T. 3,) in the Journ. de Mede- cine, T. -45 ; and by Chopart. ( Trait e dcs Ma- ladies dcs Voles Urinaires.) A prolapsus uteri "may also happen during parturition. (Garin, ■ Journ. de Med. continue, T. 4, p. 265 ; Da- , "reuse, Mem. dc VAcad, dc Chir. T. £, p. 3393.) When, in the course of time, a prolapsus uteri changes from the incomplete to the complete >state, all the inconveniences, depending upon the roressure of the part upon the rectum and-blad- der subside; that is to say, the feces and urine 1 ::ire now freely voided. But, on the other hand, t.he symptoms, arising from the stretching of the vjeritonaeum, become considerably worse. The : items drags down with it the vagina, which be- :omes doubled on itself, and a part of the blad- der, connected with the upper part of the latter [i ube, is also drawn down. Some of the abdo- minal viscera may even fall into the cul-de-sac, ■ ormed by the vagina, and considerably increase I .he size of the tumor. The swelling, protruding •etween the thighs, is of an oblong, nearly cy- i indrical form, and terminates below in a narrow .■xtremity, in which a transverse opening, the os incae, may be discerned, from which the menses • re discharged at the periods proscribed by nature. iTowever, the cylindrical shape of the tumor may e ead to mistakes, for the vagina, being doubled n itself, and exposed to the effects of the air, ometimes looks like skiu. Hence, women, bus afflicted, have occasionally been supposed o be hermaphrodites, the tumor being mistaken or a penis. Such a case is recorded by Saviard. The patient is generally troubled with tenes- mus, and sometimes feels acute pain in the tu- tor itself, which is subject to inflame, and ulcer- te, in consequence of its depending posture, the riction, to which it is exposed, and the irrita- iion of the urine. The direction both of the bladder and urethra ecomes horizontal, so that the urine is thrown mrwards, or even upwards, in which latter case, it 'ets the abdomen. Frequently the bladder cannot e emptied, without the assistance of the catheter; nd sometimes the displaced uterus becomes af- fected with inflammation and swelling. In many ases, there are profuse hemorrhages. However, ome women become so habituated to the disease, hat they hardly seem to experience any annoy- nce from it: whenever they are in the erect pos- ure,and walk about, the womb falls down, bring- eg with It the vagina; and, as soon as they lie own on their backs, the parts as readily return ^ie'r nafurQl position again. ■* he incomplete prolapsus is alone subject to any ‘■•bscurity, which, however, may be dispelled by nanual examination. In this, however, some precautions are necessary. For instance, as the womb generally returns into its natural situation, when the patient lies down, the examination should always be made as she is standing up. For the same reason, if she is in the habit of lying long in bed, the morning is not the best period of the day for the examination. The practitioner may also be deceived, if he examine the parts, when the rectum and bladder are dis- tended with their contents, in which state, the uterus may be hindered from descending as low as at other periods. If attention be paid to these circumstances, an incomplete prolapsus may always be distinguished without risk of error. However, the records of surgery prove, that the case has sometimes been mistaken by the inexperienced, or ignorant, for a polypus, and the part extirpated under this supposition. So serious a blunder will be avoided, if care be taken to remember, that polypi are generally softer, and less sensible, than the ute- rus; that, in a case of prolapsus, the os tineze is situated at the lower part of the swelling; and, that if by chance any resembling aperture should be met with upon the corresponding portion of a polypus, the prolapsus may still be known by the greater depth, to which a probe will enter such opening. A polypus of the uterus, I believe, is always broadest at that extremity, which is near- est the vulva; but the womb, in a state of incom- plete prolapsus, forms a tumor, which is narrower below, than above. With very few exceptions, the womb is likewise reducible, and the patient directly afterwards feels great relief; whereas a polypus cannot be pushed back, and the attempt, instead of giving relief, only increases the pa- tient’s sufferings. In a complete prolapsus, no doubt can ever prevail about the real nature of the case, for what- ever uncertainty the feel of the parts may create, none can ever remain when the swelling is di- stinctly visible. Although Mauriceau, Saviard, and Monro have recorded instances of prolapsus uteri in maidens, such cases are exceedingly rare. The disease is hardly ever met with, except in women who have had children, and generally in those who have borne a great many. This parti- cularity is ascribed by writers to the elongation of the ligaments of the uterus in women, in whom this organ has been repeatedly gravid. The same consideration may also account for the frequency of prolapsus uteri during the first months subsequent to parturition, especially as the womb remains for some time after labour more enlarged and heavy, than natural. The disease is more common in thin, than fat women, and is said often to take place in females when they sudderdy change from a fat to a very ema- ciated state. The displacement is facilitated by a capacious vagina, by a great width of the lesser cavity of the pelvis, and the effects of tedious and profuse attacks of fluor albus. Prolapsus uteri has also been brought on by violent con- cussions of the body; the protracted efforts of vomiting, coughing, or crying, hard labour, and lifting, or carrying heavy burdens. In what has been stated, one may discern the reason, why the affliction is so frequent amongst the lower classes of society, and why women, for a certain