VAGINA IMPERFORATE. 1131 its convexity. A ligature is put round the ring with a slip-knot, which is to be tightened by means of another ring, of much smaller size, mounted, like the preceding one, upon a long slender handle, The ligature is to be left in the mouth, and, when it does not make sufficient constriction, it is to be tightened. Fabricius Hildanus subsequently described an instrument, constructed on the same principles. Sabatier takes hold of the uvula with a pair of forceps, made with holes in the blades, like those used for the extraction of polypi. He then di- vides the uvula with a pair of scissars, made with concave cutting edges. Sabatier never saw any bleeding of conse- quence follow 'this trivial operation. (See Mtdecinc Operatoirc, T. 3.) V. \J AGINA IMPERFORATE. Female infants are often born with different ini- perforations of the vagina. Sometimes this pass- age is not completely shut up, so that the usual evacuations happen in an uninterrupted manner, and it is a considerable time before the malform- ation is discovered. Some females are even stated to have become pregnant, notwithstand- ing such obstruction; and, in these cases, the membrane, which shut up a part of the mouth of the vagina, either was torn by the effects of la- bour, or divided as much as was necessary' for delivery. Two membranes, one placed beyond the other, and obstructing the vagina, have also been found. That which is commonly met with is only the hymen, thicker and stronger than na- tural. Ruysch describes the case of a woman, who had been in labour three days, and could not be delivered. The head presented itself, but was prevented from coming out by the hymen, which shut up the vagina, and was very tense. Ruysch made an incision into the membrane; but to no purpose, since there was another membrane, of a thicker texture, situated more deeply in the pass- age. As soon as this second membrane was divided, the child was expelled, and the case ended well. When the vagina is completely imperforate, and the time of the menses commences, many complaints occur, which afflict the patient with more severity, in proportion as the blood accu- mulates in the passage, and they may even lead to a fatal termination, when the cause is not un- derstood, or not detected till it is too late. These complaints are very similar to those of preg- nancy ; for instance, rumbling noises in the bowels, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, enlarge- ment of the mamma*, spasms, convulsions, swelling of the abdomen, &c. Hence girls, in this situation, have often been supposed to be pregnant, although they were not in a state even to become so; and some young women have been known to die, after dreadful sufferings. When the malformation consists altogether in the orifice of the vagina being shut up by a mem- brane, the patient may be easily relieved by a crucial incision, or a single cut, the edges of which are kept apart by a tent of suitable shape and size. Instances of the success of such an operation are to be found in numerous writers, fabricius ab Aquapendente informs us, that a female child was born with a membrane, which .completely shut up the vagina. The girl expe- rienced no inconvenience from it, till she was about thirteen, when the period of her menses began. As the blood was retained, she became afflicted with severe pains in the loins, the lower part of the abdomen, and about the upper part of the thighs. She was supposed to be attacked with sciatica, and treated accordingly. Medicines were prescribed, which did no good; and, at length, she became hectic, and reduced to a com- plete state of marasmus, in which she passed restless nights, lost her appetite, and was deli- rious. A painful, very elastic tumor afterwards presented itself in that part of the abdomen, which corresponds to the uterus. The pains were aggravated every month, at the period when the patient ought to have menstruated. She was in a dying condition, when Fabricius ab Aquapendente was consulted, who, after ascer- taining the real nature of the case, performed the requisite operation, A prodigious quantity of black putrid blood was discharged from the vagina ; the bad symptoms gradually subsided, and the patient recovered. (See also J. C. Loder, Ohs. Imperforationis Vagina?, Iconc ittustrata, 4 to. Jence, 1800; and numerous other cases on record.) When the malformation is produced by an ex- tensive accretion of the sides of this passage to each other, the cure is sometimes difficult. The result of the operation is doubtful, because it is impossible to reach the situation of the blood without cutting through a considerable thickness of parts, in doing which there is some danger of wounding the rectum, or bladder. A lady, twenty-four years of age, after having tried, for eight years, such remedies as seemed best cal- culated for exciting the menstrual discharge, be- came affected with a large hard swelling of the abdomen, and a kind of herpetic affection round the body near the navel. At length it was dis- covered^ that the imperforation of the vagina was the sole cause of all the bad symptoms which the patient had long endured. An incision was made, which enabled the operator to introduce his finger into a large cavity, and which gave vent to a considerable quantity of blood. It was thought, that an opening had been made into the vagina; but, the patient having died three days afterwards, it was seen that a mistake had been made, as the cavity, in which the finger had been introduced, was that of the bladder. The vagina was closed below by a substance of an inch in diameter, and half an inch thick. The upper part of this passage, the uterus, and the Fallo-