CANCER. cases, bears witness to Mr. Hill’s accuracy; arid, the former very judiciously states, that, “from these and many other authenticated facts, which, if necessary, might be adduced of the success, attending the extirpation of cancers, there is, it is presumed, very great reason, for considering the disease, in general, as a local complaint, not originally connected with any disorder of the sy- stem. ’ With respect to Mr. Bell’s opinion, that ageneral cancerous taint seldom, or perhaps never, occurs, but, in consequence of the cancerous virus being absorbed into the constitution from some local affection, much doubt attends even this sup- position, though the practical inference from it is what cannot be found fault with : viz:, in every case of real cancer, or rather in such scirrhosities, as, from their nature, are known generally to ter- minate in cancer, we should have recourse to ex- tirpation as early as possible; “ and, if this were done soon after the appearance of such affections, or before the formation of matter takes place, their return would probablv be a very rare occur- rence.” (System of Surgery, Vo). 7.) After comparing the different accounts of suc- cess given by Monro and Hill, well might Richter say : “ Jure sane dixeris, de uno eodemque morbo bos viros loqui, dubitari fere potest.” (Ohs. Chir. Fuse, 3.) MEDICINES AND PLANS, WHICH HAVE BEEN THIED, FOR THE CURE OF SCIRRHUS AND CANCER. It is a contested point, whether a truly can- cerous disease is susceptible of any process, by which a spontaneous cure can be effected. It appears certain, however, that a violent inflam- mation, ending in sloughing, may sometimes accomplish an entire separation of a cancerous affection, and that the sore, left behind, may then heal. Facts, confirming this observation, are Occasionally exemplified in cases, where caustic is used, and accidental inflammations have led to the same fortunate result, as we may be convinced of by examples recorded by Sir Everard Home, Richerand, &c. The latter writer, adverting to the effort, which nature sometimes makes to rid herself of the disease, on the inflammation and bursting of the tumor, takes the opportunity to relate the following case. A1 woman, aged forty- eight, of a strong constitution, was admitted into the hospital of St. Louis, with a cancerous tumor of the right breast. Theswelling, after becoming softer, and affected with lancinating pains, was attacked with an inflammation, which extended to the skin of the part, and all the adjacent cel- lular membrane. The whole of the swelling mor- tified, and was detached. A large sore, of healthy appearance, remained after this loss of substance, and healed in two months. (Nosugraphie Chir. T. I, p. 381, Edit. 2.) In general, however, it must be confessed, that inflammation, attacking a cancerous disease, renders things worse instead of better, and by converting occult cancers into ulcerated ones, hastens the patient’s death, or, at all events, renders his cure more difficult, and forbids any attempts, which, on such a principle, might be made for his relief. Of the general remedies, narcotics, such- as cieuta, opium, nightshade, &c. have been em- ployed with most confidence. Cieuta owed its reputation to the experiment- ing talent of Storck, who has written several libelli on this plant. According to him, cieuta possesses very evident powers over cancer, and has cured a great many cases ; but, in less pre- judiced hands, it has been found much less suc- cessful ; and even in many of the instances, adduced by Baron Storck, of its utility, it is by no means proved, that the disease was really cancer. 1 he public have now, with great reason, very little reliance on this medicine. Mr. J. Burns declares, that, in cancerous ulceration, he never knew cieuta produce even temporary me- lioration. The common way of exhibiting hemlock is to begin with small doses, and increase them gradually, until they produce vertigo. We may begin with two grains of the extract, or four of the powder, recently prepared, twice, or thrice a day, and the quantity is to be gradually increased. In this way, some patients have at last been able to take an ounce of the extract daily; but, says Mr. Burns, if a much less quantity, than this, produce no good effect, we may consider it as useless to continue a remedy, which, in this dose, must injure the constitution every day that it is continued. On the continent, hemlock has been used in the form of a bath ; but, this method is so disagreeable, that few will submit to it. Belladonna was highly recommended by Lam- bergen. During its use, he kept the bowels open with clysters, administered every second day. The dose should be, at first, a grain of the dried leaves, made into a pill. This, in the beginning, is to be given in the morning and evening, and afterwards more frequently. The reputation of belladonna has not been supported by much success. s Hyosciamus has often been tried in cancerous cases, and was held in great estimation by the ancients. Mr. J. Burns says, he has employed it occasionally, but with little effect. The com- mon dose at first is three grains of the extract. Aconitum has also been given; and, as it is a very powerful and dangerous narcotic, a patient usually begins with only half of a grain of the ex- tract night and morning. Solanum dulcamara, Paris quadrifolia, phytolacca, &c. have been re- commended ; but, they are now hardly ever em- ployed ; which is a sufficient proof of their ineffi- cacy. Mr. J. Burns tried the f^’dro-sulphuret of ammonia, without any benefit. Richter prescribed the laurus cerasus, but with very little success. The dose of the distilled water being uncertain, four, or five grains of the fresh leaves may be infused in a little water, as a dose. The digitalis diminishes vascular action, and may act on scirrhi, like abstinence, bleeding, Set. It has, however, no specific virtue in curing can- cerous diseases. Opium is seldom employed, with an intention of curing cancer, although it probably has just as much power of this kind, as other narcotics, which have been more frequently used. For the pur- pose of lessening the pain of cancerous diseases, opium is very freely employed. Tonics may sometimes improve the general health ; but, as they never produce any effect on the local disense, they are now seldom exhibited* Justamond thought arsenic a specific for can- cers. Future experience has not, however, con- i I i ! I S ' I J i ; ’