205 ARG APP APPLERESIS. (from aQuiptw, to remove.) This term was formerly used in the schools of surgery, to signify that part of the art, which consists in taking off any diseased, or preter- natural portion of the body. APONEUROSIS. The expression veupov was applied by Hippocrates and other ancient writers to tendons and ligaments as well as nerves, all which parts seemed to resemble each other in having a white fibrous texture. Matter often collects under aponeuroses in dif- ferent situations of the body, particularly, un- der the tendinous expansions, which cover the muscles of the thigh, the leg, and the forearm. Abscesses are also sometimes met with under the temporal, the palmar, and the plantar fasciae ; in the tendinous thecae, which include the flexor tendons of the fingers; and, occasionally, also, in the aponeurotic sheath, in which the rectus ab- dominis muscle is situated. One particular effect of an aponeurosis, or any kind of tendinous expansion, lying between a col- lection of matter and the skin, is materially to retard the progress of the pus towards the surface of the body. Hence, if the case be allowed to take its own course, the quantity of matter in- creases, the pus spreads extensively under the aponeurosis in every possible direction, separates the muscles from such fascia, and the muscles from each other, and the abscess does not burst till a vast deal of mischief has been produced, to- gether with more or less sloughing of the fascia, tendons, &c. These circumstances cannot hap- pen, without a considerable degree of constitu- tional disturbance, and a permanent loss of the use of certain muscles. Even when a sponta- neous opening is formed, and some of the matter escapes, it is often only a very imperfect dis- charge ; for, the aperture generally occurs, not in a depending situation, nor over the main col- lection of pus, but, at a part, where the aponeu- rosis is most thin, and consequently, where the matter had the least resistance to overcome in getting to the surface of the body. In all such cases, the chief indication is to make an early and a depending opening with a lancet, so as to prevent the extension of the ab- scess, and to let the matter escape as fast as it is formed. If a spontaneous opening should have occurred in an unfavourable place, a new aper- ture must be made in a proper situation ; or if the former should be sufficiently depending and uear the principal accumulation of matter, but too small, it must be rendered larger with a curved bistoury and a director. Whenever any black dead pieces of fascia, or tendons, present them- selves at the opening, they must be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and extracted. APOSTEME, or APOSTUME. An ab- scess. APPARATUS. This implies thepreparat and arrangement of every thing necessary ir performance of an operation, or in the app tion of dressings. The apparatus varies acc ing to circumstances. Instruments, hiachi bandages, tapes, compresses, pledgets, dossi hnt, tents, sponges, basins of water, towels, «c. are parts of the apparatus, as well as Medicinal substances used. It is a rule in surgery, to have the appar rcat y before an operation is begun. All parations of this kind should be made, if possible, out of the patient’s room and presence, as they might agitate and render him timid. We have been lately censured by a French surgeon, for our too common neglect of what lias been here recommended. “ In" France (ob- serves M. Roux) we are careful not to let a pa- tient, who is to undergo a serious operation, see any of the requisite preparations for it. We has- ten as much as possible the immediate prepara- tory measures, in order not to prolong unneces- sarily the restlessness and moral agitation, which the expectation of an operation, and sometimes of the slightest one, always produces. These precautions are neglected by the English sur- geons, at least, by most of those, whom I saw operate. They even neglect them in private practice, where, more commonly than in hospi- tals, we have to deal with pusillanimous indivi- duals, who are easily alarmed, and whose extreme susceptibility it is of importance to spare. It was in the very room, where the patient lay, of course under his eyes, that the table, and all the necessary instruments for lithotomy, were ar- ranged, at an operation, which I saw done in London, during my stay in that capital, by a gentleman at the head of his profession.” (See Paralltle de La Chirurgie Angloise avee La Chirur- gie Frartgoise, p. 105.) M. Roux, in his visit to London, had also too good reason to complain of the slovenly objec- tionable practice of leaving the application of the tourniquet, and the dressing of the wound after a surgical operation, to mere novices and students. I entirely coincide with him, that, in respect to the dressings in particular, a surgeon is bound to extend his attention and solicitude a little beyond the moment, when the operation ter- minates. APPARATUS MINOR; APPARATUS MAJOR ; APPARATUS ALTUS. Three ways of cutting for the stone. (See Litha- tomy.) AQUA PICIS LIQUIDS. Dull. Take of tar two pints; water a gallon. Mix them with a wooden rod for a quarter of an hour, and after the tar has subsided, let the liquor be strained, and kept in well corked bottles. This lotion is often used in cases of porrigo. Ulcers on the legs, are sometimes extensively surrounded with a scorbutic redness, and pimples. In such in- stances, the aqua picis, used as an application round the limb, over the dressings, is of great service. (See Liquor.) ARGENTI NITRAS. (Nitrate of silver, lunar caustic.) Is the best of the mildest caus- tics. Its utility for stimulating indolent ulcers, and keeping granulations from rising too high, is well known to every surgeon. Mr. Hunter sanctions the use of the argentum nitratum, on the first appearance of a chancre, before absorption can be supposed to have taken place. He directs the caustic to be scraped to a point, like a blacklead pencil; so that, when it is applied, every part of the surface of the chan- cre may be touched with it; and he advises the repetition of this process, till the last slough, which is thrown oft’, leaves the sore florid and healthy. This treatment, when the sore is very small, may sometimes be advisable, ns a means of less-