ANEURISM. 169 feces. At length, an immense external swelling is formed, which pulsates alarmingly, and, if the patient survives long enough, destroys him by a sudden external, or internal effusion of blood. Aneurisms, within the thorax and abdomen, being entirely out of the reach of operative surgery, have been too commonly abandoned as unavoidably fatal, and when any thing has been done in such cases, it has generally been only with a view of palliation. Moderating the force of the circulation by bleedings and low diet, avoiding every thing that has the least tendency to heat the body, or quicken the motion of the blood, keeping the bowels well open with laxative medicines, and lessening pain with opiates, have been the means usually employed. Of late years, also, digitalis, which has a peculiar power of diminishing the action of the sanguiferous sys- tem and impetus of the blood, has been pre- scribed, with every appearance of benefit. That the diminution of the force of the circu- lation will prevent the increase of an aneurism, Mr. Hodgson considers illustrated by the fol- lowing circumstance: if two sacs exist in the course of the same artery, the obstruction, which is caused by the passage of blood into the upper, removes the force of the circulation from the lower, which becomes stationary, or its cavity is obliterated with coagulum. (Ora Diseases of Arteries, <5jr. j>. 149.) It was the opinion of the celebrated Valsalva, that the utility of a lowering plan of treatment might do more, than merely retard the death of aneurismal patients, It was his belief, that the method might entirely cure such aneurisms as had not already made too much progress; and lie put it into practice with such rigour and perse- verance, that the treatment became considered as particularly his own. The plan, alluded to, is not described in his writings; but, was published in the first volume of the Commentaries of the Academy of Bologna, by Albertini, one of his fellow students; and several persons, who had learnt this method of Valsalva, afterwards im- parted it to othcjrs. Thus, as Morgagni was passing through Bologna, in 17-28, Stancazi, a physician of that place, is said to have informed him of Valsalva’s practice. (See on this subject, Kret/sig, Uber (lie Hcrzkr inkheiten, B. 2, p. 728.) After taking away a good deal of blood by venesection, Valsalva used next to diminish the quantity of food gradually, till the patient at length was allowed only half a pint of soup in the morning, and a quarter of a pint in the evening, and a very small quantity of water, medicated with mucilage of quinces, or with the lapis osteocolla- When the patient had been so reduced as to be incapable of getting out of his bed, Valsalva used to give him more nourish- ment till this extreme debility was removed. Valsalva was sure, that some aneurisms, thus treated, had got well, because every symptom disappeared, and his conviction was verified by an opportunity, which he had of dissecting the body of a person that had been cured of this dis- ease, and afterwards died of another affection; lor, the artery, which had been diluted, was found contracted and in some degree callous. Morgagni relates, that this method of treating aneurisms, is somewhat like the plan, which Bernard Geugha tried with success, as well as Lancisi, and he refers us to the 24 th chapter of the 2nd vol. of the Anatomy of the one, and to lib. 2. cap. 4, of the Treatise on the Heart and Aneurisms, of the other. But, Sabatier tells us, that, in consequence of this instruction, he examined both these works, without finding any thing on the subject. However this may be, we are informed by the latter, that he has seen the good effects of the practice in an officer, who had an alarming aneurism in front of the humeral extremity of the clavicle, in consequence of a sword wound in the axilla. The patient, after having been bled several times, was confined to his bed, and kept to an extremely low diet. He was allowed, as drink, only a very acid kind of lemonade. He took pills containing alum, and the swelling was covered with a bag full of tan mill dust, which was every now and then well wet with port wine. By a perseverance in this treatment, the swelling was reduced to a smallish hard tubercle, having no pulsation, and a perfect cure ensued. (See Sabatier Me'decine Opiratoirc, Tom. H, p. 170—172.) A French surgeon named Guerin, has written in favour of the efficacy of applying ice water, or pounded ice, to aneurismal swellings; a plan, which he represents, as being often of itself sufficient to effect a cure. This topical employ- ment of cold applications may be rationally and conveniently adopted in conjunction with Val- salva’s practice. The most interesting and convincing facts, in proof of the efficacy of this mode of treatment, were published a few years ago by Pelletan. Indeed, upon the whole, I have no hesitation in saying, that I never read any modern collection of surgical cases, which have appeared to me more valuable, than those which compose the Clinique Chirurgicale of this experienced writer. The following extract from a well written critique on this work will serve to convey to the reader some idea of the important information contained in the memoir on internal aneurisms. “ The intent in the treatment is to reduce the patient gradually to as extreme a degree of weakness, as is possible, without immediately endangering life. It is done by absolute rest, a rigorous diet, and bleeding; to these means, M. Pelletan adds the external application of ice, or cold and astringent washes, &c. He has here detailed many cases from his own practice, of partial, or complete success, which cannot be too generally known, as they may be the means of creating in some, and of confirming in others, a good opinion of the only method of treatment, which has been found at all efficacious in a dreadful, and not unfrequent, organic disease. “ Of the cases here recorded, some appear to have been cured; in others, the treatment had marked good effects. In extreme cases, at best, it afforded but partial and temporary relief. We can notice but a few of these cases, which are, in every respect, highly interesting. In one, a robust man, an aneurism at the root of the aorta, with a pulsating tumor of the size of an egg, projecting between the libs, (the edges ol which were already partly absorbed) was reduced, so as to recede within the ribs in the course o( eight'days. At the end ol this time, the patient