LIN LIN 7G3 lrtl‘1, Mens. Delpech, Professor of Surgery in LINIMENTUM HYDR ARGYRI COM- tliat university, shewed me at least twenty cases, POSl'LUM,—R. Ung. hydrnrgyri fortioris, in which he had, and was still practising this Adipis suilkn, sing. ^i. Camph. 3lh Spirit method with success. 1 have seen, however, in vinos, rectil. 3D* Liq. amnion, ^j. The cam- two, or three instances, some ill-looking ab- phor being dissolved in the spirit of wine, add scesses formed by them, and I suspect some dis- the liq. ammon. and the ointment previously agreeable consequences will ensue, if this prac- blended with the hog’s lard. (Pharm. Scincti. tiee be continued. Barthol.) An excellent formula for all surgical “ I consider this improvement as very valua- cases, in which the object is to quicken the Lie in all cases, that will not unite by the first in- action of the absorbents, and gently stimulate tention. The ligatures, if there be many, form the surfaces of parts. It is a capital application into ropes, are the cause of much irritation, and for diminishing a chronic indurated state of par- are frequently pulled away with the dressings; ticular muscles, every now and then met with in by cutting them oft’, these evils are avoided, and practice; and it is particularly well calculated for the knots will come away with the discharge.” lessening the stiffness and chronic thickening (See Guthrie on Gun-shot Wounds of the Ex- often noticed in the joints. tremities, p. 93, 94.) LINIMENTUM POTASSAL SULPHU- With respect to the abscesses, which this RETI — R. Saponis Albi. |iv. Olei Amyg- gentleman saw produced by the method, it is dalae ^viij. Potassae Sulphureti 3vj‘ Olei properly observed by Mr. Lawrence, that as this Thymi gr. xv. vel 3j. This liniment, used statement is not accompanied by'any description twice a day, will cure the itch in five days, or, at of the materials, or size of the'ligature, nor by latest, in eight. It has very little unpleasant any details of the unfavourable cases, we can- smell, and would be preferable to sulphur oint- not judge, whether the events alluded to are to ment, if equally efficacious- (See London Me- be attributed to the method itself, or to the way diced Repository, Vol. 3, p. 242, and Cross's in which it was executed. (See Med. Chir. Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, Trans. Vol. 6, p. 171.) p,\76.') M. Roux has tried the plan in three ope- LINIMENTUM SAPONIS COMPO- rations on the breast; the cases did well; and SIT. UM.—R. Sapon. tjiij. Camph. ^j. Spi- no ill consequences arose from the presence of rit. rorismar fjjj. Dissolve the soap in the the bits of thread under the cicatrix. (See Re- spirit, and then add the camphor. Uses the lation d'un Voyage fait a Londrcs en 1814, ou same as those of the linimentum camph. Parallcle de la Chirurgie Angloise avec la LINIMENTUM SAPONIS CUM OPIO. Chirurgie Franqoise { Paris, 1815,^.134— R. Lin. sapon. comp. ^vj. Tinct. opii ^ij. 136.) For other remarks, connected with the IVIisce. For dispersing indurations and swellings foregoing topics, see Amputation, Aneurism, attended with pain, but no acute inflammation, and Hemorrhage. LINIMENTUM TEREBINTHINJE.— LINIMENTUM ACIDI SULPHU- R. Ung. resinae fiavae Jjiv. 01. terebinthinae, R1CI.—R. Olei Olivae §iss. Acid. Sulph. q'. s. Misce. The well known application for 2ss. M. Recommended by Mr. Brodie, for the burns, recommended by Kentish. (See Burns.') removal of the effects left by inflammation of LINIMENTUM TEREBINTHIN.U the synovial membrane. (See Joints.) SULPHURICUM.—R. Olei olivae Jx. Ol. LINIMENTUM AMMONLE FOR- terebinth. 3iv. Acidi Sulph. 3iij. Misce. Said TIUS.—R. Liq. ammon. ^j. Olei olivae^ijj. to be efficacious in chronic affections of the Misce. Properties stimulating. joints, and in the removal of the old effects of LINIMENTUM CALCIS.—R. Aquae calcis, Olei olivae, sing. <;viij. Spirit, vinosi rec- iificati Ji. Misce. A common application to burns and scalds. LINIMENTUM CAMPHORAE COM- POSITUM.—R. Camph. j^ij. Aq, ammon. ?vj. Spirit, lavend. Jxvj. SixteeH ounces are to be distilled of the two last ingredients, from a glass retort, and the camphor then dissolved in the distilled fluid. For bruises, sprains, ri- gidities of the joints, incipient chilblains, &c. LINIMENTUM CAMPHORS iETHE- REUM.— R. Champhorae drach. j. iEtheris unc. ss. Olei. viperarum drach. ij. Misce. The camphor is to be dissolved in the aether, and the oil afterwards incorporated with it. The late Mr. Ware sometimes used this application, in certain obscure affections of the eye, in which it was not easy to determine, whether the imper- fection of the sight proceeded from an incipient cataract, or a defect of sensibility in the optic nerve. The mode of applying it is to moisten the finger with it, and to rub it for two or three minutes together, morning and evening, on the outside and edges of the eyelids. (Pharm. C/iirurgica.) sprains and bruises. (Pharm. Chirurgica.) LIP, CANCER OF. The lips are subject to ulcers, which put on a very malignant aspect, although some of them are not in reality malig- nant; and many occurring just on the inside of these parts, will be found to depend on the bad state of the constitution, and the irritation and dis- turbance which the sores are continually suffer- ing from the incessant motion of the parts, and their rubbing against a projecting, or rough tooth. Arsenic is frequently useful in subduing the obstinacy and malignity of certain ulcers and diseases of the lip, reputed to be cancerous. (Stark, De Cancro Labii Infcrioris.) Of this essay, Professor Langenbeck speaks in high terms. The following formula is recommended. “ R. Arsenici Albi drachm, dimid. Aq. comm, stilfaticize unc. sex. M. Digerantur vase vitreo clauso in balneo arente justi caloris ope per boras sex, turn adde Potassae Carbontis purre drachm, dimid. antea solut. in aq. Cinnamon, simpl. unc. duab. M. Digerantur denuo per aliquot boras in loco temperato. Ilac solutione bis terve quotidio nd guttas 8—10—15, utiinur.’’ When cancer takes place, it is usually in the lower, and very seldom in the upper lip.