145 ANEURISM. the upper third of the thigh, or a little higher, than the place, where Mr. Hunter used to make the wound. Scarpa’s reason for this practice is to avoid the necessity of removing the sartorius muscle too much from its position, or of turning it back, to bring the artery into view, so as to be tied. I have seen the best operators, even pro- fessors of anatomy, embarrassed, by having the sartorius muscle immediately in their way after the first incision, and as the vessel is more super- ficial a little higher up, the place is further from the diseased part of the artery, and there is no hazard of the anastomoses failing to keep up the circulation; this part of Scarpa’s practice is highly deserving of imitation. “ The part of the limb (observes Mr. Hodg- son), in which the femoral artery can be tied with the greatest facility, is between four and five inches below Poupart’s ligament. The pro- funda generally arises from the femoral artery an inch and a half, or an inch and three quarters, be- low Poupart’s ligament; it very rarely arises so low as two inches. If, therefore, the ligature be applied to the femoral artery at the distance of four or five inches below Poupart’s ligament, the surgeon will not be embarrassed by meeting with the profunda during the operation, and the chance of causing secondary hemorrhage, by tying the artery close to the origin of this vessel, will be obviated.” (On the Diseases of Arteries, p. 434.) The trouble, arising from cutting too low down, so as to have the sartorius intervening between the outer wound and the artery, may be more accurately estimated, when it is known, that Desault for the removal of this inconvenience considered it right actually to make a complete transverse division of that muscle, a thing, which, it is said, may be done, without any ill conse- quences. (Briltea's Traite des M<iL. Chir. T. 2, p. 145.) I shall not presume, however, to se- cond this last piece of advice, because, though it may have been done by Desault, it appears to me, that the artery can always be taken up very well, without the proceeding here recommended. A few years ago, Mr. C. Hutchinson published a tract, in which he advocated the practice of making the incision at the outer edge of the sartorius, and then raising that muscle, and drawing it inwards, in order to arrive at the artery. This advice proceeded from the appre- hension, that the plan of taking up the femoral artery at the inner edge of the sartorius was at- tended with risk of injuring the saphena vein, and large lymphatics. (Letter on the Operation far pupliteuL Aneurism, 1811.) The same method is commended by Boyer, and Roux, (Nauvennx Ttemais de Med. Optrataire, T. 1, /». 729) when the operation is done low down in the thigh. But, as operating in this situation is liable to the several objections of approaching too near the Please, of aiming at taking up the artery where it lies more deeply, than it does higher up, and, of every inconvenience which may arise from the interposition, dissection, and reflection of the sartorius muscle, the method must bo rejected, unless it can be proved, that so many disad- vantages are ftdlv counterbalanced by other con- siderations. If the plan which I shall presently recommend be adopted, there will never be the slightest risk of wounding the saphena vein ; and, therefore, I do not consider it advisable or necessary, for the avoidance of this accident, to make the wound precise!i/ npan the sartorius, as my intelligent friend Mr. Hodgson suggests; a method, attended with the inconvenience of having the fibres of that muscle between the ex- ternal wound, and the artery, and perhaps in- consistent with the excellent directions which he afterwards delivers, concerning the right mode of performing the external incision, when lie says, with Scarpa, that this cut should be “ continued down to the fibres, which form the inner margin of the sartorius.” (On Diseases of Arteries, 6;c. p. 436.) Now, if the point, where this margin first lies over the artery, be the proper place for the lower termination of the external incision, we shall clearly be deviating from the precise course of the vessel by letting the higher portion of the wound be over the fibres of that muscle. And, when it is further reflected, that the serious evils of wounding the trunks of the lymphatics in this operation are not demonstrated in modern practice, while the saphena vein may always be avoided with certainty and facility, I cannot admit, that there is any solid reason for letting the situation and direction of the external wound be determined by such apprehensions. At all events, for the motives above explained, it should be a fixed maxim in this operation never to extend the wound lower than the point, where the inner margin of the sartorius crosses the artery; and then all detachment and displacement of this muscle will be unnecessary, and every em- barrassment, which might proceed from its in- terposition between the outer wound and the artery, will be completely avoided. The skin and cellular substance are to be divided, in the situation, and to the extent above specified down to the femoral fascia, under which the artery lies, and may be felt beating. The next object, therefore, is to divide the fascia, which is here much thinner than at the outer side of the limb, and may be cut with another stroke of the bistoury; or (what is safer with the view of abstaining from all chance of wound- ing the artery) a slight cut may first be made in the fascia, the division of which may then be made to the requisite extent by introducing under it a grooved director, on which the further incision may be made with perfect se- curity. The fascia is to be divided in the di- rection of the external wound; but, to what ex- tent is a point on which surgical writers differ, and, indeed, they must here differ, as long as they are not unanimous about the method of applying the ligature round the artery; because, if it be intended to use a broad ligature, with a cylindrical piece of linen interposed between it and the artery, or especially if it be designed to apply two ligatures and divide the vessel in tin* interspace, more of the artery must be exposed, and of course more of the fascia must be cut, than when it is simply meant to surround the vessel with a single small ligature. Such ope- rators also as have contracted the pernicious h&bit of insulating the artery all round sufficiently far to let them thrust their finger under it, will likewise require an extensive opening in A'1’ fascia. Such detachment of the vessel lor an inch or more, for the purpose o( placing the L