240 BRONCHOTOMY. stances, this thickened state of the membrane was the only change of structure observed ; but in others it was attended either with ulceration of the surface near the glottis, appearing as if it bad been formed by an abscess, which had burst; or with a partial death of one or more of the cartilages of the larynx, viz. the arytenoid, thy- roid, or cricoid. The rest of the air passages and the lungs were healthy.” (Med. Chir. Tram. Vol. 6. p. 222.) In such examples, this gentleman is a zealous advocate for the early performance of broncho- tomy, and lie has cited several instances, in which this operation was successfully performed, both for the relief of quinsy and extraction of foreign bodies from the trachea. The affections of the larynx, requiring bron- eliotomy, would seem, indeed, to be more nu- merous and diversified, than is usually supposed: thus, Mr. C. Bell mentions the case of a medical student, who was attacked with shivering, fever, and sore throat, and in three days died of suf- focation. On dissection, no obstruction in the larynx was observed, but only an inflammation of its membrane, and a spot like.a small pox pustule, upon the margin of the glottis. (Surgical Obs. Puri 1, p. 14.) 2. The compression of the trachea by foreign bodies, lodged in the pharynx, or by tumors, formed outwardly, and of sufficient size to com- press the windpipe, is an equal reason for opera- ting, more or less expeditiously, according to the symptoms. Mr. B. Bell mentions two instances of suffocation from bodies falling into the pharynx. Respiration was only stopped for a few minutes; but, the cases were equally-fatal, notwithstanding the employment of all the usual means. This author thinks, there was every reason to believe, that bronchotomy would have been attended with the greatest success, if it had been performed in time, before the effects of the suffocation had be- come mortal. The operation should also be done, when the trachea is compressed by tumors. The author of the article Bronchutamie, in CEncycla- pedic Melhodique, says, that about twenty years ago, he opened a man, who had died of an em- physema, which came on instantaneously. He bad had, for a long while, a bronchocele, which ivas of an enormous magnitude towards the end of his life. The cavity of the trachea was so obliterated, that there was scarcely room enough to admit the thickness of a small piece of money. Doubtless, bronchotomy, performed before the emphysema made its appearance, would have prolonged this man’s days. In cases of this last description, Desault would have advised the introduction of an elastic gum catheter into the trachea from the nose, in order to facilitate respiration. This practice, I believe, has not hitherto been attempted by English sur- geons, though ithas been repeatedly tried in France. (See (Euvret Chir.de Desault, T. 2, p. 236, &c.) Habicot successfully performed this operation on a lad fourteen years old, who, having heard, that gold, when swallowed, did no harm, at- tempted to swallow nine pistoles, wrapped up in a piece of cloth, in order to hide them from thieves. The packet, which was very large, could not pass the narrow part of the pharynx ; and here it lodged, so that it could neither be extracted, nor forced down into the stomacj The boy was on the point of being suffocated lx the pressure, which the foreign body made ofl the trachea; and his neck and face were s*l swollen and black, that he could not have heeij known. Habicot, to whose house the patieuj was brought, attempted in vain, by diflererjl means, to dislodge the foreign body. At length] perceiving the patient in evident danger of beinj suffocated, he resolved to perform bronchotomyl This operation was no sooner done, than th» swelling and lividity of the face and neck disapt peared. Habicot pushed the pieces of gold dowj into the stomach with a leaden probe, and thx pistoles were, at different times, discharged fron# the anus, eight or ten days afterwards. Thu wound of the trachea very soon got quite well! (See Mem. dc P Acad. dc Chirurgic, Tam. 12: p. 243, Edit, in 12mo.) In such a case, Desault would have introduceil an elastic gum catheter into the larynx, instead of performing bronchotomy, which could not answer, were the foreign body low down. (SeiJ CEuvres Chirurg. de Desault, Tam. 2, /. 247.) 3. Foreign bodies in the trachea, may rendetH it necessary to practise bronchotomy. Here J|,: ought rather to say, perhaps, laryngotomy, which by several modern surgeons is in these cases* deemed most applicable. (Desault; C. Belt, Sarg , - Obs. Purl 1, /). 47, &c.) Louis, in an excellent memoir, on extraneous)] substances in the trachea, has proved, more con-fi vincingly than all other preceding writers, thet necessity of the operation in circumstances oil this kind. The following case fell under hisfj observation. On Monday, the 19th of March, 1739, a little! girl, seven years old, playing with some dried] kidney-beans, threw one into her mouth, and! thought she had swallowed it. She was im-> mediately attacked with a difficulty of breathing,] and a severe convulsive cough. The little girl] said, she had swallowed a bean, and such as-] sistance as was thought proper, was givenl her. Want of success was the cause of several] surgeons being successively sent for, who vainly] employed the different means, prescribed by I art, or extracting foreign bodies from the ocso- • phagus, or forcing them into the stomach. A tine sponge, cautiously fastened to the end of a whalebone probang, was repeatedly introduced through the whole extent of the oesophagus. The little girl, who made a sign with her finger, that the foreign body was situated in the middle of the neck, thought that she felt some relief, when the sponge was conveyed below the place which she pointed out. She had, every now and then, a violent cough, the efforts attending which pro- duced convulsions in all her limbs. Deglutition was unobstructed; and warm water and oil of sweet almonds had been swallowed without dif- ficulty. Two whole days had been passed in sufferings, when the relations called in Louis. The little girl, with all possible fortitude and sense, was several times held in her friends arms, ready to die of suffocation. Louis, well aware of what had happened, came into the room, where the patient was. She was sitting up in her bed, suffering no other symptom, than a very great difficulty of breathing. Louis en-