FRACTURES. 459 causing pain and other inconveniences; at the same time that they cannot, in the nature of things contribute to the steadiness of the limb. “ In order to be of any real use at all, splints should, in the case of a broken leg, reach above the knee, and below the ankle; should be only two in number, and should be so guarded with tow, rag, or cotton, that they should press only- on the joints, and not at all on the fracture. “ By this they become really serviceable; but a short splint, which extends only' a little above and a little below the fracture, and does not take in the two joints, is an absurdity, and, what is worse, it is a mischievous absurdity. “ By- pressing on both joints, they keep not only them, but the foot steady; by- pressing on the fracture only, they cannot retain it in its place, if the foot be in the smallest degree dis- placed ; but they may-, and frequently do, occa- sion mischief, by rudely- pressing the parts cover- ing the fracture against the edges and inequalities of it. “ In the case of a fractured os femoris, if the limb be laid in an extended posture, one splint should certainly reach from the hip to the outer ankle, and another (somewhat shorter) should extend from the groin to the inner ankle. In the case of a broken tibia and fibula, there never can be occasion for more than two splints, one of which should extend from above the knee to below the ankle on one side, and the other splint should do the same on the other side.” (See Remarks on Fractures and Dislocations, in Pott’s Chimerical Works, Vol.. 1, p. 298,. cj-c. Edit. 1808.) Assalini strongly- disapproves of the employ-- ment of all tight bandages, and of covering the whole of a broken limb with splints. He was called to a gentleman of rank at Paris, who had broken the knee-pan transversely. He laid the limb upon a concave splint, which was adapted in shape to the under surface of a part of the leg and thigh. No bandage was used, merely two leather straps, which crossed upon the knee, and included the fractured bone. A perfect bony union was thus easily- effected. Assalini after- wards extended the use of a concave splint, ap- plied under the limb, to fractures of the leg and thigh. In the first of these cases, however, only the thigh is received in the hollow splint, and from this two branches, or lateral splints, go along the leg. The apparatus has also a kind of sole for the support of the foot. As this simple contrivance is fastened with a very few straps, and no plasters, or bandages, are used, the surgeon has constantly a view of the whole front of the limb, and of the fractured part of it, which Assalini thinks a great advantage. In compound fractures, he puts no other dressings on the wound but linen compresses, which are kept continually wet with cold water. (M/muale di C/iiruroia, parte prima. 1812.) For further observations on the subject, see Splint. In oblique fractures of the thigh, and some- times even in those of the leg, the difficulty of accomplishing by the ordinary means a cure free from deformity, and especially without a shorten- ing of the limb, has led to the idea of employing continual extension. This expression implies the operation of a bandage, or machine, which con- tinually draws the fragments of the broken bone in contrary directions, at the same time that it restrains them from gliding over each other, and maintains them in contact during the whole time necessary for their union. In England, this practice has long been relinquished. It appears to have been chased away by the dazzling theory of relaxing every muscle in such manner as to render it incapable of displacing an oblique frac- ture ; a theory-, with which the surgeons of this country were but too much blinded by the per- suasive eloquence of the late Mr. Pott. Desault saw at once, however, every inconsistency in the doctrine of relaxing the muscles, so as to in- capacitate entirely the whole set connected with a broken thigh ; and he never ceased to inculcate in his school, that, in such cases, the assistance of the mechanical apparatus applied to the limb was the main thing, by which the shortening of the limb was to be prevented. When we con- sider the treatment of fractured thighs, we shall find, that the best apparatus for these cases partly produces its good effect by continual, though moderate extension. Perhaps, also, these are the only instances, in which an advantageous position will not generally do away all occasion for this method, to which many surgeons appear to entertain strong, but highly exaggerated ob- jections. By means of continual extension, (observes Boyer) we not only- succeed in uniting the frac- ture, while the limb preserves its natural length; but, we afford the part a steadiness, whicli is singularly favourable to the formation of the callus. In order to derive from continual extension the utmost benefit, and render the method as little painful as possible, and supportable during the whole time of treatment, the machines and bandages, according to Boyer, should be con- structed and applied conformably to the follow- ing rules. Wc should avoid compressing the muscles, ivhich pass over the situation if the fracture, und the elongation of which organs is necessary to restore to the limb the length, which it has lost by the gliding of the fragments over each other. With this view, the extending power ought to be applied to that part of the limb, which is articulated with the lower head of the fractured bone; and the counter-extending force to that, which is articulated with the upper head. If these powers were applied to the broken bone itself, the muscles passing over the fracture, would suffer such compression, as would excite spasm, and render the continual extension in-? effectual and even hurtful. The extending and counter-extending force ought to be divided upon as large suijaccs as possible. The reason of this rule is obvious. The pres- sure of external bodies on parts is less painful, in proportion as the surface pressed upon is ex- tensive, and the operation supported at once by numerous points. On this principle, a narrow band creates stronger and more painful pressure, than abroad one; and hence, the rollers, and other pieces of the apparatus for making the ex- tension and counter-extension, should be as wide as possible.