JOINTS. 738 tone glands, or tuberculated lungs. (Brodie's Pathol. Ohs. p. 221.) As the same author re- marks, since the disease depends upon a certain morbid condition of the general system, it is not surprising, that we should sometimes find it af- fecting several joints at the same time, or that it should shew itself in different joints in succes- sion ; attacking a second joint after it has been cured in tire first, or after the first has been re- moved by amputation. (P. 230.) Besides the general emblems of a scrophulous constitution, which will be noticed in the article Scrophula, we may often observe a shining, coa- gulated, flaky substance, like white of egg, blended with the contents of such abscesses as occur in the progress of the disease. This kind of matter is almost peculiar to scrophulous ab- scesses, and forms another argument in support of the foregoing observations, relative to the share, which scrophula frequently has in the ori- gin and course of many white-swellings. Mr. Brodie’s experience leads him to believe, that in scrophulous cases, the chance of ultimate recovery is much less, where the disease attacks the complicated joints of the foot and hand, than when it is situated in larger articulations of a more simple structure. (Pathol. and Snrg. Ohs. p. 235.) Treatment of White-swellings.—In practice we meet with all these cases both scrophulous and rheumatic, in two very opposite states; sometimes the diseased joint is affected with a degree of acute inflammation; in other instances, the malady is entirely chronic. The imprudence of patients in walking about, and disturbing the diseased part, is very often the occasion of a degree of acute inflammation, which is denoted by the tenderness of the joint when handled by the surgeon, and also by the integuments feeling hotter than those of the healthy knee. When such state exists, there can be no doubt, that topical bleeding, fomenta- tions, emollient poultices, or cold saturnine lo- tions, are means which may be eminent!)' ser- viceable. The antiphlogistic regimen is now strongly indicated. Cooling purges of the sa- line kind should also be exhibited. Blood may be taken from the arm, and also from the diseased part, either by means of leeches or cupping. Mr. Latta gives the preference to the latter me- thod, whenever it can be employed; and he very properly remarks, that little advantage can be expected from topical bleeding of any kind, unless the quantity of blood taken away be con- siderable. Ten or twelve ounces by cupping should be taken away at a time, and the opera- tion should be repeated at proper intervals, till the tenderness and heat of the skin have entirely subsided. When leeches are used, the number ought to be considerable, and Mr. Latta recom- mends the application of at least sixteen or twenty. (System of Surgery, Vol. 1, chap. 6.) Although antiphlogistic means are judicious when acute inflammation prevails; yet such practitioners as lose weeks and months in the adoption of this treatment, are highly censurable. While the skin is hot and tender, while the joint is affected with very acute and general pain, and while the patient is indisposed with the usual symptoms of inflammatory fever, great benefit may be rationally expected front the above plan. When, however, the disease is truly chronic, different plans arc indicated. In ordinary cases of scrophulous disease of the joints, Mr. Brodie considers topical bleeding as usually unnecessary. (Pathol. and Surgical Ohs, p. 240.) It is quite unnecessary to expatiate on the mode of treating white-swellings, complicated with acute inflammation, particularly as the treatment of those cases, which consist of inflam- mation of the synovial membrane, has been al- ready noticed, and may be said to be applicable to other forms of white-swelling, when they are attended with heat and inflammation of the soft parts. The most eligible plan of arresting the morbid process in the bones, cartilages, and soft parts surrounding the articulation, and the most successful method of lessening the chronic en- largement of the joint, are the subjects at present demanding our earnest investigation. The works of Hippocrates, Celsus, Rhazes, Hieron, Fahricius, &e. compared with modern surgical books, will soon convince us, that the practice of the ancients, in the treatment of dis- eased joints, does not differ much from the plan now pursued by the best modern surgeons. Mr. Crowther remarks, that the ancients used local and general blood-letting, the actual and poten- tial cautery, with vesicating and stimulating ap- plications to the skin. They further maintained, that sores, produced by these means, should have their discharge promoted, and continued for a considerable length of time. With regard to the cases, which Mr. Brodie describes as depending upon a total loss of the natural structure of the synodal membrane, which is converted into a pulpy substance, one quarter, or one half, of an ineb in thickness, though the progress of the disease may be somewhat checked by rest and cold lotions, it is according to this gentleman incurable, and at length it ends in ulceration of the cartilages, abscesses, &c. When there is considerable pain in consequence of the cartilages beginning to ulcerate, partial relief may be derived from fomentations and poultices; but, nothing will effect a cure. Hence, when the health begins to suffer, he considers amputation to be indicated. {Med. Chir. Trans, p. 254.) When white-swellings are accompanied with ulceration of the cartilages, all motion of che joint is extremely hurtful. Indeed, as Mr. Brodie well observes, keeping the limb in a state of perfect quietude, is a very important, if not the most important circumstance, to be attended to in the treatment. According to this gentle- ban, it is in these cases, in which ulceration of the cartilages occurs as a primary disease, that caustic issues are usually productive of singular benefn, but, he deems them of little use in any other diseases of the joints. He thinks setons and blisters, kept open with savine cerate, may also be used with advantage. Bleeding is indi- cated ouly when, from improper exercise, the ar- ticular surfaces are inflamed, and there is pain and fever. Mr. Brodie asserts, that the warm bath relieves the symptoms in the early stage, if it does not stop the progress of the disease; but, he condemns plasters of gum ammoniac, embro- cations, liniments, and frictions, as either useless or hurtful. (See Mcdico-Chir. Tram. Vol. 6, p. 332—334.)