17G ANEURISM. Dupuytren tried what effect tying tlie trunk of the carotid artery would produce on the swelling. As soon as the ligature was applied, the throb- kings ceased, and the tumor underwent a quick and considerable diminution. On the 17th day, slight expansions and contractions of the diseased part of the ear were again perceptible, though the swelling had diminished one third. An at- tempt was now made to compress the tumor by covering it with plaster of Paris ; a plan which was somewhat painful, though it lessened the size of the disease. After being sixty-three days in the hospital, the patient was discharged, at which period, the tumor was diminished one third ; the throbbings had returned; but, no unpleasant noises continued to affect the ear. (See Bresrhei's Tr. oj Mr. Hodgsons Work, T. 2, p. 29u.) An infant, six weeks old, was brought to Mr. Wardrop, on account of an aneurism by anasto- mosis, (a subcutaneous naevus)of a very unusual size, situated on the left cheek. The base of the tumor extended from the temple to beyond the angle of the jaw, completely enveloping the car- tilage of the ear. At its upper part, there was an ulcer, about three inches in diameter, present- ing a sloughing appearance. The tumor was soft and doughy; its size could be much dimi- nished by pressure; there was a throbbing in it; and a strong pulsation in the adjacent vessels. The disease was daily increasing, and several pro- fuse hemorrhages had taken place from the ulcer- ated part. Mr. Wardrop, knowing from the case, to which I have already adverted, the dan- ger of attempting to extirpate so large a tumor of this nature, was led to try what benefit might be obtained by tying the carfttid artery. A few hours after this operation, the tumor became soft and pliable, its purple colour disappeared, and the tortuous veins collapsed. On the second day, the skin had resumed its natural pale colour, and the ulceration continued to extend. On the third, the tumor still diminished. On the fourth, the swelling had considerably increased again; the integuments covering it had become livid ; and the veins turgid. The inosculating branches of the temporal and occipital arteries had become greatly enlarged. A small quantity of blood had oozed from the ulcer. After remaining without much alteration, the tumor on the seventh day had again evidently diminished. On the ninth the ulceration was extending itself slowly, and the tumor was lessened fully one half. On the twelfth the child’s health was materially improving. The auricular portion of the swelling had now so much diminished, that the cartilage of the ear had fallen into its natural situation. After a poultice had been applied for two days, the central por- tion of the swelling, which appeared like a mass of hardened blood, was softened, and Mr. War- drop removed considerable portions of it. On the thirteenth, the child became very ill, and died the following day, exhausted by the irritation of an ulcer, which had involved the whole surface of an enormous tumor. Mr. Wardrop thinks the ad- vantages likely to occur from the plan of tying the main arteries, supplying tumors of this nature with blood, are the diminution of the size of the disease ; the lessening of the danger of hemor- rhage, if the ulcerative process has commenced ; and the rendering it practicable to remove the swelling with the knife, though the operation may previously have been dangerous, or impracticable. See Med. Cl dr. Trims. Vat. 9, 200-214, nstead of endeavouring to promote ulceration in any of these cases, my own sentiments would in- cline me to leave the business of removing the diseased mass quietly to the absorbents, or, at most, I would only assist them with pressure, or by covering the tumor with plaster of Paris. The next case of aneurism by anastomosis, which I shall briefly notice, was one which was under the care of my friend Mr. Lawrence, ami situated on the right finger of the right hand, in a young woman about twenty years of age. The disease was attended with painful sensations extending to various parts of the limb and the breast, and the arm was disqualified for any kind of exertion. In January I SI 5, Mr. Hodgson had taken up the radial and ulnar arteries, and the con- sequences of the operation were an entire cessation of beating, collapse of the swelling, and relief from pain ; but, these symptoms all reeurred in a few days. Finding compression unavailing, and the sufferings of the patient increasing, Mr. Lawrence proposed amputation of the finger at the meta- carpal joint; but, as this suggestion was not ap- proved of, he recommended the patient to try the effects of a division of all the soft parts, bv a cir- cular incisicn close to the palm, so as to cut off the supply of blood. This operation Mr. Law- rence performed in the presence of Mr. George Young and myself, in as complete a manner as can possibly be conceived. All the soft parts, excepting the flexor tendons, with their theca and the extensor-tendon, were divided. The di- gital artery, which had pulsated so evident!}' in the palm of the hand, was fully equal in size to the radial, or ulnar of an adult, and was the prin- cipal nutrient vessel of the disease. After tying this and the opposite one, we were surprised at finding so strong a jet of arterial blood from the other orifices of these two vessels, as to render ligatures necessary. 1 can here only add, that the whole finger beyond the cut swelled very con- siderably ; the incision healed slowly; the swell- ing subsided, but did not entirely disappear; the integuments recovered their natural colour; the pulsation and pain were removed; and the pa- tient so far recovered the use of her arm, that she could work at her needle for an hour to- gether, and use the arm for most purposes. (See Win-drop's Obs. on one species of Neevus in Med. Chir. Trails. Pol. 9, p. 216.) For information on aneurism, consult G. /h•- nnud on Aneurisms, 8vo. S. C. Lucae, De Osscs- centia Arteriannn Senili, 4Ip. Marbnrgi, 1817. A. F. IValthcr, Programme! dc Aneurysmate, Ar- gent, 1738. (7{niter Disp. Chir. 5, 18.9.) A. de Haller, De Aorta- Veneeqne Cane gravioribus quibusdam Marbis Observation's, 4 to. Gott. 1749. F. Thierry, Qucestin, Ac. An tuiior fa- ciliorque vulgari detur Ancurysmatis Chimrgica curalio? (Haller, Disp. Chir. 5, 211.) 77. Pctint de Aneurysmate, Mansp. 1749. Lauth Scripta- rum Latinomm dc Aneurysmatibus Cclleetio, 4to. Argent, 1785, which work contains Asman's Diss. dc Aneurismale, 1773 ; Guattani, de Extemis Ancurismatibus, 4to. Foma-, 1772; J.nneisi de Aneurysmatibus, Argent. 1785: Matani de Aneurysmatieis Prcccardionim Marbis Animadvcr- sioncs, 1785 : Verbrnggr, Dissertatio Anatarnica- Cliirvrgica de Aneurysmate, 1773 ; T1 eltintis dc