CATARACT. 297 cut, to bo sensible of its falling on the eye, and ■ a shade, as the hand for example, intercept- n h, with a corresponding freedom of motion ;• the pupil, is the most favourable state for the )eration.” (Synopsis oj the Diseases oj the Eye, 315.) As it not unfrequently happens, that cataracts, oduced by external violence, spontaneously dis- jpear, (Pott, Hey, 6fc.) the operation should ver be too hastily recommended for such in- .nces. Respecting the question, whether an operation ght to be ilone, when only one eye is affected tli cataract, and the other is sound, I find some i’erence of opinion prevails. 'One reason assigned by the condemners of this accice, viz. that one eye is sufficient for the cessities of life, is but of a frivolous description ; d, another, that the patient would never be able see distinctly after the operation, by reason of a difference of the focus in the eyes, is, (I have ounds for believing) only a gratuitous supposi- n, inconsiderately transmitted from one writer another. In support of what I have here ad- uced, and to prove that success does sometimes, abablv in general, (if no other causes of failure ist,) attend the practice of couching, and ex- ction, when only one eye is affected with a aract, I shall first adduce a fact from Maitre a. (Traiti des Maladies de I’Oeil. Edit, ris, 1741, I'Jmo. Obs. sur une Cataracte lai- se,p. 196.,) “ Le 17 Octobre de l’annee 1785. J’allai a viere pour abaiser une cataracte dans l’oeil tehe d’un jeune garejon appelle Nicolas Very, et de Sebastien Coutan, laboureur. Cette aracte me paroissoit d’une bonne couleur, la >ille se dilatoit lentement, et beaucoup, et se serroit de meme, quand je passoisla main entre ;il et le grand jour, le sain /cant Jerme,” See. :er describing the operation, he continues, iuelques jours apres je retournai le voir, et je uvai que l’humeur aqueuse etoit fort eclaircie, qu’il disting noil touics series d'uhjets: je le encore sept ou huit jours apres en passant par village, etje le rencontrai faisant son oUvrage, mtierement gueri, sans qu’il pardt qu’il eut ais ete incommode de cataracte.” 3aron Wenzel was in the habit of extracting tracts with the most successful result, when f one eye was affected with the disease, as r be learnt by referring to the cases here spe- ■d. (Case. 6, 13, 16, i9, 22, 25, 29, 30, 31, ' Sec. Treatise mi the Ca1 aract.) It will be neees- r to quote here only two cases, related by this i nent oculist. “ Madame Harvey, a tobae- st, at Chalons sur Marne, presented a com- ated case similar to the preceding. She had taract in the right eye, combined with an dty in the anterior portion of the capsule, as ;ared by the white spots and inequalities, of h I have spoken above,, in the surface of the talline. Her def t eye was sound. I operated the right eye in the year 1782, &c. The ;nt suffered some pain in consequence of the ation, but was soon removed by bleeding her >cfoot; and notwithstanding this obstacle, the t was soon recovered to a3 great a degree of ection as was possible after such an operation.” eviel on the Cataract, p. 138, Case 16.) he following case is as explicit as possible on the point under consideration. “ A poor v/oman, de la Ferte sous Jouarre, who had a cataract in the right eye upwards of ten years, came to con- sult me in the year 1780. 1 found all the sym- ptoms of the case favourable to an operation,” Sec (after describing the manner of doing it, he continues) ; “ I immediately bound up, not only the eye that had undergone the operation, but the sound one also; a precaution, which it is neces- sary to use after all operations on the eye, even the most simple; it being almost impossible, that one eye should not follow the motions of the other, &c. In a fortnight she was perfectly cured; and, though the pupil remained larger than it was before the operation, or than that in the left eye, and had much less motion, yet this eye, as well as the other, perceived objects very distinctly.” (Case 22,p. 166.) In the Medical and Physical Journal for May 1808, I have read an ingenious paper, defending the practice of operating, when only one eye is affected. I next proceed to notice what Richter has remarked upon this head. He was formerly con- vinced, that the advice not to operate, when there is a cataract only in one eye, ought, for several reasons, to be disregarded ; he reminds us of the wonderful consent between the eyes, so that one is seldom diseased without the other, sooner or later, falling into the same state; and hence he questions, whether it may not be possible to pre- vent the loss of the sound eye by a timely opera- tion ? An non covert possit juctura integri oculi tempestive extrahendo cotaracton prioris? (Obs. Chir. Fascic. I.) He adverts to the remarkable case related by St. Ives, where a man was wounded in the right eye by a small shot, and, shortly afterwards, had a cataract in it; he then gradually became blind in the left, but soon recovered his sight in it, after the cataract bad been extracted from the right one. Here let us notice, that St. Ives (Maladies des Yeux, Chop. 1.5, Ait. 3.) makes no mention of any confusion in vision, in consequence of the different refracting powers of the two eyes in question. Another reason, judi- ciously assigned by Richter, (Ohs. Chirurg. Fascic. 1.) for disregarding the above precept, is, that in waiting until a cataract forms in the other eye, the existing one, which is at this mo- ment, perhaps, in the most favourable state for the operation, may soon change so much for the worse (for instance it may contract such adhe- sions to the iris), as either to destroy all pro- spect of relief, or, at most, afford but a very pre- carious and discouraging one. The length of time necessary to wait is also uncertain and tedi- ous. I once saw a man in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, who had had a cataract in one eye fif- teen years, during all which time the other con- tinued quite sound; and another case of twenty years standing has lately been communicated to me. It is right to state, that Richter latterly inculcated a contrary opinion to what he formerly espoused, yet, without specifying the particular facts which induced him to revoke his former sentiments. The principal reason stated by him is, that the patient, not only does not see much more acutely with the two eyes after the opera- tion, than with one before it, but, he frequently sees more confusedly, because the eye that has been operated on, cannot see well without the aid of a glass, which, perhaps, the sound one does