TONGUE. 1038 roses, and the tincture of myrrh and aloes, the place soon healed. It is much easier to cut off a portion of the tongue, through all its diameter, than to remove a cancerous ulceration, situated at one of its edges. In both cases, there is a good deal of difficulty in fixing the part, for it is so very moveable, that it is not easy to keep it in a steady position. l‘or this purpbse, Louis recommended the em- ployment of forceps, with blades terminating in hook-like extremities. With this instrument, the part of the tongue to be amputated can be kept from slipping away. However, very malignant ulcers on the tongue have sometimes been cured by milder means. Sores of this description are reported to have yielded to the repeated application of leeches under the tono-ue, after a vast number of other remedies had been tried in vain. In the Encyclopedic Mtthodique, art. Langne, there is an account of a very alarming affection of the tongue, (reputed to be cancerous, though this may be doubted,) which got completely well under a very simple plan of treatment. A wo- man, thirty-five years of age, subject to cutane- ous diseases, and ill-conditioned ulcers, com- plained, for seven or eight months, of little swellings, accompanied with heat and pain, which made their appearance on the edge, and towards the apex, of the tongue. At length, the part affected began to swell, grow hard, and cause lancinating pains. Its surface became irregular and rough ; and all' the side of the tongue was considerably swelled. The patient could not put her tongue out of her mouth, nor swallow anything except liquids; and her breath was intolerably fetid. Various sedative remedies had been employed without success. Cicuta had been used as a topical application; it had been exhi- bited internally in large doses ; the patient had taken for a long while, the oxymuriate of mer- cury ; but nothing proved of any avail. At length, the patient was so tired of trying the effect of medicines and applications, that she gave them up entirely; and contented herself with trying the experiment of keeping some honey continually in her mouth. As this method seemed to give her some ease, she was prevailed upon to persist in it, and, in this way, the pains were gradually appeased; the swelling was di- minished, and, at the end of two or three months, the woman was quite well, except that an indu- rated cicatrix remained on the part affected, and considerably obstructed the extension of the tongue on that side. On this case, however, it might be remarked, the retardation of the cure seems also ascri- bable to the injury of the health produced by the hemlock, mercury, &c. and that the amend- ment, following their discontinuance, might ra- ther arise from the consequent improvement of the patient’s health, than from any effect of the honey. Many writers confirm the fact, that very in- veterate diseases of the tongue are sometimes cured by hemlock. In the work last cited, is mentioned an instance of a very unhealthy-look- ing ulcer, near the apex of the tongue, attended with a considerable thickening of the part, and of some duration, which was cured by giving large doses of cicuta. But, of all the medicines, which have the greatest reputation for their beneficial effects upon malignant ulcers of the lip and tongue, none perhaps is deserving of so much confidence, as arsenic. (See C. Lane's case of ill-conditioned Ulcer of the Tongue success, fully treated by arsenic ; Med. Chir. Tram 'Voi. 8,/;. 201.) However, notwithstanding many facts of this kind on record, medicines should not be tried too long, that is to say, so as to let the disease attain a condition, in which it will no longer ad- mit of being cut away. When the disease makes progress, the knife should be employed, before it is too late. When any part of the tongue is to be ampu- tated, authors very properly recommend the chief vessels to be tied, if possible ; but when this cannot be accomplished, they advise the employ- ment of astringent gargles, such as a strong solution of alum, distilled vinegar, or diluted sulphuric acid. When these methods fail, the continental surgeons recommend the actual cau- tery as the only resource. Where only a piece of the tongue is cut out, in the shape of the let- ter V, the best mode of stopping the bleeding is to bring the sides of the incision together with a suture, by which means, the deformity will also be lessened, and the 'union expedited, as is ex- emplified in a case recorded by Langenbeck. (ATeue Bibl. B. 2, p. 489.) Rather than suffer a patient to die of hemorrhage, if the cauterv and other means fail, the lingual artery should be taken up where it passes over the cornu of the os hyoides. Diseased portions of the tongue admit of removal with the ligature. (La Motte , Chirurgic Obs. 208; Godart in Journ. dc Med.ik T. 1 o, p. 66 ; Sir Everard Home, Bract. Obs. on Cancer, p. 207 ; Inglis, in Edinb. Med/'j and Surgical Journ. 1805, Aro. 1, p. 34.) Sir Everard Home generally' passed a double liga- ture through the centre of the tongue, behind the diseased portion, and then tied the threads tightly over each half of the organ, so as to make all the part in front of the constriction slough away. The whole of the tongue sometimes inflames, and becomes considerably enlarged, either spon- taneously, and without any apparent cause, or in consequence of some other disease; or else from some particular irritation, such as that of mer- cury, or some poisonous substance. Siegel, a German physician, who was at Paris about the middle of the 17th century, saw a patient in a salivation, whose tongue became so enormously ' enlarged, that the mouth could not contain it. Pimprenelle, an eminent surgeon of that time* was sent for, and finding that all trials to relieve the affection were in vain, amputated one half ot the tongue, with the view of preventing its mor- tification. After the wound had healed, it is said, the patient could articulate very well. Louis, from whom this fact is quoted, veryr justly re- marks, that the measure resorted to by Pimpre- nelle was an exceedingly violent one; for ho «jji has often seen urgent symptoms occasioned, during a salivation, by a rapid and enormous swelling of the tongue, very quickly yield to bleedings, purgative glysters, change of air, and leaving off’ mercury. Two or three facts, con- firming this statement, have fallen under my own notice.