AMAUROSIS. abdominal viscera. Further it is to be understood, that this amaurosis does not attack every indivi- dual. who has such disease in the abdomen, but oulv those whose eyes have been weak, either from birth or previously to the general complaints, or else, during these complaints, have been immo- derately strained. The surgeon who has learned in practice, and not in the closet, the nature of this chronic disease of the abdominal viscera, and the true nervous connexion between these organs and the affected eyes, and who has also learned from the same source the peculiarity of constitution, habits, &c. of the patient, will knowhow impossible it is to make any favourable prognosis; for, says Beer, the obstinacy and almost total incurability of the principal complaints, of which the amaurosis is merely a symptom, are known to such a prac- titioner by the argunu-ntum cruris. Even when there is a well-founded hope of cure, Beer argues, that it is difficult to keep the patient under all the requisite conditions for the successful ma- nagement of the case, on account of his ordinary inflexibility and long acquired habits. Nay, some- times, this amaurosis is a very bad omen, in respect to the issue of the case generally ; for, according to Beer, when its origin is attended with jaundice, and the affection of the eyes increases with un- common rapidity to complete blindness, or the jaundice suddenly comes on, during the develop- ment of the amaurosis, ascites, or hydrothorax almost always ensues, and, in the latter case, speedy dissolution. Nothing can be plainer than that, in this alarming case, little can be accomplished by sur- gery, but that evciyr thing must depend upon judicious medical treatment. Beer remembers with sorrow the time, when, in this kind of amau- rosis, such mischief was done by the favourite nauseating plan of treatment, that not a few pa- tients became mournful victims to it. He cannot, therefore, too earnestly warn surgeons against that indiscriminate practice, without denying al- together its efficacy, when adopted with the pru- dence and the cautions laid down in the obser- vations upon various remedies for amaurosis. (See Gmia Serena.') Here any employment of external means, even of such as would appear to be of the most innocent nature, always does harm, and if rashly used, or so as chemically to irritate the eye, they may quickly blind the patient. Thus, electricity and galvanism may instantane- ously produce complete blindness, attended with severe, obstinate headach ; which unfortunate change may be accounted for, when the constant determination of blood to the head and eyes is recollected. If the infarction of the abdominal viscera be successfully removed, the symptom- atic amaurosis, depending upon it, is sure to di- minish ; but when the visceral obstruction and induration are of long standing, the amaurosis is then as incurable as the diseased state of the viscera. (Beer, Lehre von den Aut'cnkr. B. 2. p. 512—15.) 4. ()/ ihe symptomatic gastric amaurosis. In no instance has Beer yet seen this amau- rosis terminate in complete blindness, excepting when the disease was occasioned by worms in the bowels, i lie present form of the disorder is al- ways characterized by a considerable dilatation oi the pupil, the inner margin of the iris not forming a very regular circle, and the motions of the same organ being exceedingly sluggish, even under the irritation of the strongest light; but the pupil constantly preserves its natural, clear blackness, and there is a frequent involuntary discharge of tears. Besides these pathognomonic symptoms in the eye itself, there are other re- mote appearances in the constitution, denoting the existence of certain complaints, as the cause of this amaurosis; for when the affection of the eyeoriginates as a sympathetic effect merely, from a redundance of foul acidity in the stomach, the patient incessantly complains of acid eructations, attended with severe heartburn and epiphora. On the contrary, when the amaurotic weakness pro- ceeds merely from indigestion, the case is ac- companied with a tedious, troublesome sense of weight at the scrobiculus cordis; continual eruc- tations, as if occasioned by rotten eggs in the stomach ; a yellowish, thickly furred tongue; oppressive'thirst; and either an invincible dis- like to fish or flesh, and repeated inclination to vomit; or, a swelled belly, and tension of the hypochondria. On the other hand, when the gastric amaurosis is altogether a sympathetic consequence of worms, it often increases to complete blindness, as Beer has very often remarked, and, in addition to the above described characteristic symptoms, the por- tion of the sclerotica, surrounding the cornea, has a blue appearance; nay, the eyelids and all the circumference of the eye are said to exhibit quite a peculiar bluish tinge; while the eye itself is remarkable for its unsteadiness and irregular mo- tions. At the same time children thus affected, as long as they are not blind, usually squint with both eyes, on which account they are not un- frequently reprimanded by their parents and mas- ters, who look upon the deformity as the result of bad habit; a mistake which is the more likely to happen, because these children have a conti- nual irritation and itching in the mucous mem- brane of the nose, compelling them, as it were, unconsciously, to be frequently picking or wiping their noses. Such children usually have pale countenances; sometimes, also, a true leuco- phlegmatic habit; an insatiable appetite, and re- peated gripings ; and, in many cases, considera- ble swelling and tension of the belly. As far as Beer’s experience reaches, the prog- nosis in the sympathetic gastric amaurosis is al- ways very favourable, even though the disorder may have attained the degree of complete blind- ness, provided the complaints, which have been assigned as its cause, are the only ones. But, says Beer, it should be remembered, that, in these cases, children with worms are often scrophulous; and adults, who are troubled with acidities in the stomach, are frequently gouty ; while other pa- tients, who complain of dyspeptic symptoms, may labour under hysteria, hypochondriasis, or infarc- tion, obstruction, or actual hardness of one or other of the abdominal viscera, whereby this amaurosis, or even a mere weakness of sight, is often rendered incurable, and made to degenerate into complete blindness. When the case is uncomplicated, the cure is easy enough; for, with regard to foul acidities in the stomach, Beer has never found it neces- sary, in the earliest stugc, to prescribe any thing