EXOPHT the indications, which this complication presents, have been fulfilled. When, says Richter, the instrument, with which the eye has been pushed out of its socket, is blunt and thick, like a finger, a stick, a foil, &c. the eyeball itself always sustains a violent contusion, which brings on vehement inflam- mation, and lessens or destroys all hope, that, after the reduction, the eyesight will be restored. Sometimes, in these cases, an extravasation of blood in the orbit occurs, the iris is lacerated, the cornea burst, and a part of the humors of the eye discharged. Although, under such circum- stances, it is scarcely to be expected, that the eyesight can be recovered, yet, it is proper to reduce the eye, because should the organ be destroyed by suppuration, or the loss of its hu- mors, the deformity may be obviated by an arti- ficial eye, which is not the case, when the eye has been cut away. It is also to be considered, that the mischief often seems to be worse, than it really is, and the eyesight is sometimes re- gained contrary to all expectation. After the reduction of the eye, the first care of the surgeon should be to prevent and dimi- nish inflammation. In some cases, the inflam- mation is slight; while, in others, especially, when the eyeball has been severely struck, it is extremely violent. All the usual antiphlogistic means, both general and topical, are to be em- ployed, and, of the latter, Richter says, astrin- gents are the best, as the inflammation arises from the contusion and stretching, which the parts have suffered. The possible consequences of inflammation, such as suppuration, opacity of the cornea, &c. are to be treated according to the rules laid down in other parts of this dic- tionary. (See particularly Cornea, Opacity of; Hupopium; Ophthaimy.) In general, the sight is restored in proportion as the inflammation is diminished. Should this not happen, after the ophthaimy has been entirely removed, the sur- geon must try what effect such remedies, as stimulate the nerves, will have upon the optic nerve. An account of the most eligible medi- cines, for this purpose, will be found in the article Amaurosis. 3. The third cause of exophthalmia is a preter- natural tumor in the orbit, or neighbouring parts. The swelling, as it enlarges, gradually pushes the eyeball out of its socket. The tumors, which may be formed in the orbit, are of several kinds. The principal, however, are encysted swellings, which contain either fat, an aqueous fluid, a pappy substance, or a thick matter. Sometimes, the cellular substance in the orbit is affected with induration and swelling, so as to force the eye partly or completely out of this cavity. According to Mr. Travers, adipose swellings occupy the interspace of the recti muscles, emerge between the globe and the orbitar cir- cumference, and have an oblong figure. When the conjunctiva is freely divided, the fatty mass is easily drawn forwards with a hook, and dis- sected out. (Synopsis oj Diseases if the Eye, p. 225.) An abscess in the orbit may cause a protrusion of the eyeball. (PclLier.) Exostoses in the orbit may have the same effect. In the records of surgery inaybe found many examples, in which HALM I A. 431 the displacement of the eye was produced by a tumor, that grew out of the frontal sinus. (See Langenbcck’s Neue Bibl. B. 2, p. 247.) In some cases, in consequence of suppuration in the antrum, the lower part of the orbit is raised, and the eye forced out of its place. Fungous dis- eases of the antrum are very liable to occasion the same mischief. (See Parisian Chirurgicul Journal, Vnl. l,p. 104,<£-f.) Not long ago, Langenbeck extracted from the sinus frontalis of a girl, a large hydatid, which had forced the outer table considerably forwards, and depressed the orbitar process of the osfrontis so far, that the eyeball was propelled as low as the extremity of the nose. After the front of the sinus had been perforated, and the hydatid removed, there was a cavity left two inches and a half in depth. (iS'eue Bibl. B. 2, p. 247, Hanover, 1819.) My friend Mr. Lawrence some time ago mentioned to me a remarkable case, which presented itself at the London Eye Infirmary : it was an exophthulmia, which arose from a collection of hydatids in the orbit, and was cured by making an incision, and afterwards pro- moting their discharges. In all these examples, the eyeball is displaced from the orbit gradually, and vision is at length impeded. Instances, however, are on record, where the sight was never lost, though the eye was protruded for years. (See Richter's Chirurg. Btbliuthek. 4 Band. 2 Stuck, p. 245, Whitt's Cases in Surgery, p. 135.) In an instance lately reported, the sight was not at all lessened, and the iris retained its natural mobility. (Langenbeck, Neue Bibl. B. 2, p. 245.) Experience proves, also, that after the reduc- tion, the motion of the eye, and power of seeing may be regained, in cases, where the eye has been gradually pushed out of the orbit, and been displaced a considerable time, even as long as several years, during all which period vision was- lost. (Acrell; Brocklesby in Meek Ohs. and Enquiries, Vol. 4.) Langenbeck relates a very curious case of exophthalmia from a steatoma in the orbit, where, though visioh was entirely pre- vented during the displacement, the pupil was of its regular shape, and the iris capable of motion: after the extirpation of the tumor, the eyesight became so good, that the patient could discern the smallest objects. (Neue Bibl. B. 2, p. 240.) In order to reduce the eye into its natural posi- tion, it is necessary to remove the cause, by which its protrusion is occasioned. Suppuration and fungous tumors in the antrum must be treated according to directions laid down in the article Anirum. After the cure of such diseases, the antrum is often reduced to its natural dimensions, and, in this circumstance, the orbit may become so wide, that the eyeball will return into it again. Should this not happen, the extirpation of the organ will be proper. The induration and swell- ing of the cellular substance in the orbit may be sometimes dispersed by means of mercury.— (Louis, sur Plusieurs Maladies du Globe dc l’lF.il, in Mdrn. de l’Acad, lloyale de Chirvrgie, T. 13, Ed. 12mo.) When such treatment fails, we are recommended to extirpate the eye. (Ilichlcr Atifangsgr. der Wundarstn. B. 3, p. 413.) Ex- ostoses, situated in the anterior part of the orbit, may sometimes be removed. The continental surgeons generally advise us to expose the tumor