NECROSIS. 843 Q • 41. ■*U >» sions, «I h it is a substitute, and it acquires the ordl- • colour of the rest of the bones. 'he external surface of the new bone, which, ng the period of its formation, was irregular, studded with sesreral excrescences of various and pierced with apertures of different di- jns, becomes in the course of time smooth gular, especially after the expulsion of the estrum. ne sides, or walls of the new bone, which at were of considerable thickness, in time also v thinner. (Troja, p. 21.) When the en- . dead bony cylinder continues in its cavity, new bone is neither shorter, nor longer, than original. But, should one of the ends of the . tube protrude from the cavity, while by the of the affected bone, there is not another capable of resisting the action of the muscles, new bone will he shortened, and undergo e change iu its shape and direction. Indeed, ; Weidmsnn, the new bone in its early state, i want oSconsislence, must yield to the efforts he muscles. ' ts shape is not exactly like that of the ori- tl bone: the sides are flatter ; the usual angles, ressions, and eminences are not observable, sometimes others are formed, low admirable is the process, by which the teles, detached from a bone affected with ne- iis, have other insertions given to them, and thus rendered capable of performing their ctions! (Troja, p. 'll.) 'he periosteum, which swells as soon as the diatiou of the old bone commences, shrinks, is not at all thickened, when the exfoliation inished. Troja, having destroyed the me- aty structure of a long bone, found the peri- ium swelled at the end of 3(5 hours; but he erved, that the whole of such swelling disap- red before the ‘25th day. (P. 43, 67.) The periosteum, which thus survives, adheres he new bone, as it did to the old one : its ves- •, which are now increased in diameter, and vey a larger quantity of blood, dive into large rtures in the regenerated bone, ramify every ere in its substance, and nourish it Dr. Macartney’s observations nearly agree h those of Troja and Weidmann, respecting formation of the new bone by the periosteum, h this difference, however, that he does not cribe the original periosteum as becoming :rwards attached to the new bone, but as dis- ■earing. Dr. Macartney remarks, “ that the t and most important circumstance is the nge, which takes place in the organization of periosteum; this membrane acquires the hest degree of vascularity, becomes eon- :rably thickened, soft, spongy, and loosely <erent to the bone. The cellular substance, •, which is immediately connected with the iosteum, suffers a similar alteration : it puts the appearance of being inflamed, its vessels ar6e» lymph is shed into its interstices, and it mes consolidated with the periosteum. These nges are preparatory to the absorption of the bone, and the secretion of the new osseous tter, and even previous to the death of the ie, which is to be removed. In one instance, ound the periosteum vascular and pulpy, when a^*!ct,on was a small abscess of the dulla, the bone still retaining its connexion with the neighbouring parts, as it readily re- ceived injection, The newly organized peri- osteum, &c. separates entirely from the bone, after which it begins to remove the latter by absorption;” and, while this is going on, its inner surface becomes covered with little emi- nences, resembling granulations. “ In proportion as the old bone is removed, new osseous matter is dispersed in the substance of the granulations, whilst they continue to grow upon the old bone, until the whole, or a part of it, is completely ab- sorbed, according to the circumstances of the case. What remains of the investment, after the absorption of the old bone, and the formation of the osseous tube, which is to replace it, dege- nerates, loses its vascularity, and appears like a lacerated membrane. I have never had an op- portunity of examining a limb, a sufficient time after the termination of the disease, to ascertain, whether the investment be at last totally absorbed, but in some instances, I have seen very little remaining. During the progress of the disease, the thickened cellular substance, which sur- rounded the original periosteum, becomes gradu- ally thinner; its vessels diminish, and it adheres strictly to the new-formed bone, to which it ulti- mately serves as a periosteum.” Dr. Macart- ney states, that the anatomical preparations, which authenticate the above observations, are preserved at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. (See Crowiher on White Swelling,p. 183, Ed. 2.) Mr. Stanley, however, lately showed me in the same museum, a preparation, which tends to con- firm the accuracy of Troja’s account of the old periosteum becoming adherent to the new bone. In this example, the periosteum is perfectly con- tinuous with that covering the epiphyses. If this were not the fact, we should have to explain in what way the periosteum of the new bone is formed. We know that the vessels of the ori- ginal periosteum enter the new bone, in order to complete its formation, and it seems more con- sonant with the uniform simplicity of nature’s operations, to suppose that this connexion is kept up, than that the old periosteum should be totally removed, after the production of the new bone, and another membrane of the same kind b e then generated. An interesting example of necrosis of the thigh-bone, published some time ago by Mr. C. Hutchison, tends also to prove, that the new osseous shell is commonly formed by the peri- osteum, as, in this case, the medullary bags, or cells, were found completely ossified, (Practical Ohs. in Surgery, p. 135) and could not there- fore be supposed to be capable of the work. Amongst the moderns, also, Dr. M'Donald de- serves to be mentioned as one of the most di- stinguished advocates for the truth of Troja’s ex- planation of this subject. ( See McDonald's The- sis dc Nccrosi ac C alio ; Edinh. 1799.) Another late writer has adduced many arguments to prove that the pulpy mass, which extends from one epiphysis to the other, and is itself at last con- verted into bone, is formed quite independently of the original bone, or the periosteum. (See Hassell's Practical Essay on Necrosis, p, 27, Edinh. 1795.) This account, however, is con- trary to the observations of Troja, David, Weid- mann, M'Donald, Macartney, and numerous other observers. Indeed, a modern author seems