TUMOll. 1057 mil growing from the surface of the perito- um, anil which was undoubtedly formed in the me manner as the tumor noticed by Mr. Hun- •, viz. by vessels shooting into a piece of ex- vasated blood, or lymph, and rendering it a ,ng organized substance. Tumors, in every .ration, and of every description, are probably .ned in the same way. The coagulating ,'ph being effused, either accidentally, or in -isequeuce of disease, is afterwards converted j a living part, by the growth of the adjacent sels and nerves into it. Mr Abernethy re- rks, that, when the deposited substance has its ichment by a single thread, all its vascular .ply must proceed through that part; but, in .er cases, the vessels shoot into it irregularly various parts of its surface. Thus, an un- | ^ranized concrete becomes a living tumor, ’ ch has at first no perceptible peculiarity as I i ts nature. Although its supply of blood is ; fished by the vessels of the surrounding parts, j i j eems to live and grow by its own independ- powers, while its future structure seems to end on the operation of its own vessels. Mr. ?rnethy conceives, that the altered structure 5 m enlarged gland affords no contradiction to i above account, as, in this latter case, the stance of the gland is the matrix, in which matter, forming the tumor, or enlargement, eposited. The structure of a tumor, he ob- es, is, sometimes, like that of the parts, I r- which it grows. Such as are pendulous in i ts, are cartilaginous, or osseous. Fatty tu- s frequently form in the midst of the adi- : substance, and he has seen some tumors ving from the palate, which had a slender at- ment, and resembled the palate in structure, lowever, this resemblance of the structure of nor, to that of the neighbouring parts, is not lys observable. I have in my own posses- a completely cartilaginous tumor, which I id in the midst of the fat near the kidneys. pendulous portion of fat, growing from tiie toneum, and mentioned bv Mr. Abernethy, es as another instance of the fact; and, one lit add, that every polypus, which we meet , bears no resemblance in structure to the hbouring parts. Mr. Abernethy mentions having seen bony tumors, which were un- ected with bone, or the periosteum, and he rves, that the structure of a tumor is, in f ral, unlike that of the part, in which it is uced. 1 'hen the coagulable part of the blood is esd, and the absorbents do not take it away, urrounding blood-vessels are supposed to into it, anil convert it into a vascular tumor, effusion of the coagulable part of the blood be tiie effect of accident, or of a common minatory process, or it may be the conse- =e of some diseased action of the surrounding Is, which (diseased action) may influence the lization, and growth of the tumor, the former cases, the parts surrounding the r may be considered simply as the sources, which it derives its nutriment, whilst it * apparently by its own inherent powers, ts organization depends upon actions be* tnd existing in itself. If such a tumor be ved, the surrounding parts being sound, lical, and a complete cure ensues. Cut if a tumor be removed, whose existence depends on the disease of the surrounding parts, which are still left, and this disease be not altered by the stimulus of the operation, no benefit is obtained. These parts again produce a diseased substance, which has generally the appearance of fungus, and, in consequence of being irritated by the injury of the operation, the disease is in general increased by the means, which were designed for its cure. It appears, therefore, that in some cases of tu- mors, the newly formed part alone requires re- moval, whilst in others, the surrounding substance must be taken away, or a radical cure cannot be effected. (Abernethy's Surg. Obs. 1804.) This gentleman conceives, that the irritation of the tumor itself, when once the swelling has been produced, keeps up an increased action in the surrounding vessels, so as to become a sufficient cause of the disease continuing to grow larger. As the tumor becomes of greater magnitude, it condenses the surrounding cellular substance, and thus makes fob itself a sort of capsule. The close, or loose manner, in which tumors become connected with the surrounding parts, seems to depend very much on the degree of irritation and inflammation excited in the circumjacent parts. When a tumor has been at all tender, painful, and inflamed, it is generally found inti- mately adherent to all the neighbouring parts. Mr. Abernethy also believes, that the increased irritation, which a tumor creates, when it has exceeded a certain size, may explain, why some tumors, which are at first slow in their progress, afterwards begin to grow with great rapidity. The process, by which tumors are formed, is commonly thought to be attended with an increased action of the vessels, which supply the swellings with blood. It is supposed, in short, to be the same kind of process, which forms all the thickenings and indurations, which, under various circumstances, occur in different parts of the human body. It lias sometimes been named chronic inflammation, to distinguish it from that which is more quick in the production of ce.rtain effects, and is often attended with a manifest throbbing in the part affected. This subject of chronic, or passive inflammation is one, about which very little certain is known ; and the very name has commonly been admitted only on the supposition, that some kind of increased action exists in the vessels, though of a slower and less evident kind, than what prevails in acute in- flammation. According to Dr. Wilson Philip, the difference between what is called active and passive, inflammation seems to depend upon “the degree, in which the arteries supplying the vis a terffo to the debilitated vessels are excited.”— (Laws of the Vital Functions, p. '2H2, Edit. 2.) If this position be satisfactorily established, one important step will be made to a know- ledge of the differences between acute and chro- nic inflammation ; but, much would yet remain for explanation before our ideas of the latter pro- cess would be at all complete. In a work of considerable merit, Dr. Baron of Gloucester, offers many considerations against the correctness of the ordinary doctrines, respect- ing the formation of tubercles and tumors. By tubercles, lie means disorganizations composed of one cyst, “ whatever he its magnitude, or the nature of its contents,” and by tumors, he would 3 Y