20 AMAUROSIS. to apprize a well-informed practitioner of the na- ture of the disease. Sometimes the colour of the pupil has an inclination to green; while, in other examples, this aperture seems to be dense, white, and cloudy, so that the complaint might easily be mistaken for the beginning of a cata- ract. This error, into which inexperienced sur- geons are liable to fall, may readily be avoided by attention to the following circumstances. The misty appearance is not situated close behind the pupil, in the place of the crystalline lens; but, frequently, is manifestly deeper in the eye. Nor is it in proportion to the impairment of sight, the patient being quite blind, while the misty appear- ance is so trivial, that, if it arose from the opa- city of the crystalline lens, it could at most only occasion a slight weakness and obscurity of vi- sion. At the same time, Richter acknowledges, that it must be more difficult to avoid mistake, when a beginning amaurosis is accompanied with this cloudiness in the eye, and, consequently, when the degree of blindness seems to bear some proportion to the degree of mistiness in the pupil. However, in this case, if we are to credit Richter, the true nature of the disease may ge- nerally be known by comparing the ordinary symptoms of the two diseases, (Anfangsgr. B. 3, p. 14.) And, according to Professor Beer, when the pupil is of a true dark grey, or greenish grey colour, a lateral inspection of the eye will shew plainly enough, that the cloudiness is in the vi- treous humour, or behind it. Sometimes, the pupil appears reddish, quite red, or of a yellowish white colour; (he lire von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 436“.) while in other cases, the interior of the eye, a good way behind the pupil, seems quite white, and a concave light coloured surface may be ob- served, upon which the ramifications of blood- vessels can be plainly seen. In particular in- stances, this white surface extends over the whole back part of the eye; while, in other cases, it only occupies a half or a small portion of it. This peculiar appearance has been ascribed to a loss of transparency in the retina itself, and a consequent reflection of the rays of light. (Hal- ler, Element. Physiol. Tom. 5. p. 409.) There can now be no doubt, that such white- ness behind the pupil must sometimes have ori- ginated from the diseased mass, which, in cases of fungus haematodes of the eye, grows from the deeper part of this organ, and gradually makes its w ay forward to the iris, being always attended with t.- tal loss of sight. Putting out of present con- sideration the change of colour within the eye, produced by fungus hacmatodes, the other palish changes behind the pupil are not confined, as Kieser supposes, to very old cases of amaurosis, because the alteration is described by Schmueker as taking place especially in examples the formation of which has been quite sudden; (Vermischte Cltir. Srhri't. B. 2.) and Langenbeelc has recorded cases, in which the same appearance happened in the early stage of the disease. (AYtte Btbl. B. 1, p.64,S(r.) Besides the above appearances in the pupil it- self, and in the pupillary margin of the iris, Beer adverts to several important phenomena, with respect to the motion of the iris. Sometimes the iris moves but very inertly, and frequently not at all, though the light be strong, and the upper eve-lid be rubbed over the eye-ball. While, in other examples, a very moderate light will bring on such a rapid contraction of the iris and closure of the pupil, as are never witnessed in a healthy eye. We have also the authority of Richter for as- serting, that, in particular instances, the iris not only possesses a power of motion, but is capable of moving with uncommon activity, so that, in a very moderate light, it will contract in an unusual degree, and nearly close the pupil. (Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 3. p. 424, Edit. 1795.) Two or three remarkable instances of the active state of the iris, in cases of amaurosis, were some years ago shewn to me by Mr. Albert, then staff surgeon of the York Hospital, Chelsea, and 1 have seen some other similar cases in St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital. Most of the patients in ques- tion had not the least power of distinguishing the difference, between total darkness and the vivid light of the sun, or a candle placed just before their eyes. Janin and Richter have likewise seen the pupil capable of motion in this disease, and Schmueker has twice seen the same fact. In some anomalous cases, when the strength of the light is suddenly increased, the pupil ex- pands with more or less celerity. I have already adverted to the occasional moveableness of the iris, notwithstanding the in- sensible state of the retina. Let me next take notice of a case, which sometimes presents itself) and is quite the reverse of this last. The nerves of the iris may be paralytic, while those of sight continue unimpaired. Schmueker tells us, he was acquainted with a woman, whose pupil was uncommonly distended, and totally incapable of motion. Her sight was very weak, and spectacles were of no use to her. She could scarcely dis- cern anything by day, or in a strong light; but she could see rather better at night and in dark places. This infirmity of sight depended upon the dilated, paralytic state of the pupil, by which too many rays of light were admitted into the eye; and the reason why the patient could see better at night was, because the pupil, in its natural state, always becomes widened and dilated in a dark situation. (See Vermischte Chirurgische Schriflen, Von J. L. Schmueker, Band 2, p. 13, 14.) Frequently, in amaurosis, when the sight of only one eye is lost, and the other retains its full power of vision, not the slightest defect can be discovered, as long as the patient keeps both eyes open; but the instant the.sound eye is com- pletely covered, the iris becomes perfectly mo- tionless, its pupillary margin assumes an angular shape, and the pupil expands, being sometimes evi- dently drawn towards the edge of the cornea. (i?cei', T.ihre v>-n den Augenkrank. Ji. 2, p 4SS.) Besides the above appearances of the pupil and iris, amaurosis is attended with other cha- racteristic phenomena, which occur under certain circumstances, in the form, texture, and state of other parts of the eye, and adjoining organs. Thus, the patient often complains of a peculiar troublesome dryness of the eye, or of a sensation as if the eye-ball were about to be pressed out of its socket; and, indeed, says Beer, one may sometimes hear a grating noise, and distinguish a fluctuation in tiie orbit behind the eye-ball, when this organ is pressed upon by the finger, nr moved in various directions, though neither