47 G FRACTURES. the jaw must have the most pernicious effect, I consider it prudent to administer every kind of nourishment in a fluid form, through an elastic \gum catheter, introduced through one of the nostrils down the oesophagus. FICACTURKS OF THE VERTEBRAE. On account of the shortness and thickness of these bones, they cannot be broken, without con- siderable violence. The spinous processes, which project backwards, are the most exposed to such injury; for they are the weakest parts of the vertebrae, and most superficially situated. The violence, which is great enough to break the bodies of the vertebrae, must produce a greater, or less concussion, or other mischief, of the spinal marrow; from which accident much more perilous consequences are to be apprehended, than from the injury of the bones, abstractedly considered. The displaced pieces of bone may press on the spinal marrow, or even wound it, so as to occasion a paralytic affection of all the parts, which derive their nerves from the continuation of this substance below the fracture. As the mere concussion of the spine may oc- casion symptoms, which very much resemble, those, usually occurring, when the vertebrae are fractured, the diagnosis is generally obscure. Perhaps an inequality in the line of the spinous processes may be observed. The lower extre- mities, the rectum, and bladder, are generally paralytic ; the patient is afflicted with retention of urine and feces, or with an involuntary dis- charge of the latter. (Boytv.) Fractures of the spinous processes, without other serious mischief, are not dangerous ; and are the only instances of fractures of the verte- brae, which admit of being detected with cer- tainty. Any attempt to set fractures of the bodies of the vertebrae, even were they known to exist, would be both useless and dangerous. Gene- ral treatment can alone be employed. Cupping will tend to prevent inflammation in the situa- tion of the injury. When the patient is affected with a flatulent distention of the abdomen, vo- miting, hiccough, &c. the belly may be rubbed with camphorated liniment, and purgative clys- ters, and antispasmodics, given. If requisite, the urine must be drawn off with a catheter. When the bladder, rectum, and lower extremi- ties are paralytic, it is common to rub the back, loins, sacrum, and limbs, with liniments contain- ing the tinctura lyttae. (Boyer.) With respect to the external and internal use of stimulants, however, it can never be judicious, when there is reason to apprehend much inflammation of the injured parts; and as for the idea of thus re- storing the nervous influence, there can be little chance of success, the cause of its interruption being here of a mechanical nature. (Delpech, Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 222.) Some authors recommend trepanning, or cut- ting out a portion of the fractured bone, when the compression of the spinal marrow, or its injury by a splinter, is suspected ; but, exclu- sively of the difficulty of that operation, on account of the great depth of the intervening soft parts, the indication is never sufficiently evident to authorize it. (Boyer.) Some cases published by Mr. C. Bell tend to prove, that the danger to be apprehended from injuries of the vertebrae, is the same as that which accompanies injuries of the brain. Hence, lie joins the generality of practitioners in recom- mending general and local bleeding, and keep- ing the patient perfectly quiet. And, with re- spect to operations for the removal of fragments of bone, it is his decided belief, that an incision through the skin and muscles covering the spine, and the withdrawing of a portion of the circle of bone, which surrounds the marrow, would be inevitably fatal, the membranes of that part being particularly susceptible of inflammation and suppuration. And, even if a sharp spicula of fractured bone had run into the spinal marrow, and caused palsy of the lower parts of the body, Mr. C. Bell thinks that exposing the medulla to extract the fragment would so aggravate the mischief, that inflammation, suppuration, and death, would be the inevitable consequences. (Surgical Ohs. VoL 1, p. 157.) The same au- thor describes inflammation of the spinal marrow as “attended with an almost universal nervous irritation, which is presently followed by excite- ment of the brain; in the mean time, matter is poured into the sheath of the spinal marrow, and either by its pressure causing palsy, or by its irritation, disturbing the function tif the part, so as to be attended with the same consequences. The excitement of the brain being followed by effusion, death ensues.” (P.159.) Cases are also referred to, where palsy of the lower ex- tremities comes on several months after an in- jury of the spine, owing to thickening of the membrane of the medulla, or disease of the latter parts itself. Here Mr. C. Bell recom- mends perseverance in local bleeding and deep issues. (P. 160.) A fracture of the upper cervical vertebrae, or of the processus dentatus, is always suddenly fatal. In such cases, the immediate paralysis of the diaphragm is said to be the cause of in- stantaneous death. (See also L. T. Soemmering, Bemerkuugtn uber Verrenkung und Bruch dts Ruckgratlis, 8m. Berlin, 1793. F. A. F. Cue- notte, Diss. Med. Chir. Sistens Casum Subluxa- liotiis vertebrce Dorsi cum Fractura complicate, post factam repositionem et varia dira symplomata Duodecimo demum Septimana funeitee. Argent. 1761.) FRACTURES OF THE STERNUM. The sternum is" not frequently broken, and the reason of this fact is imputed to the position of this bone, resting, as it were, upon the carti- lages of the ribs, to the several pieces of which it continues to be formed until advanced age, and to its spongy texture. When the accident does occur, it is from the direct application of exter- nal violence to the injured part, and hence, the fracture is always accompanied with great con- tusion, or even a wound of the integuments, and more or less injury of the thoracic viscera. As Boyer remarks, the sternum, in consequence of the elasticity of the cartilages of the ribs, may be readily propelled backward by pressure in this direction, and the result is an actual change in the form, and a real diminution of the chest.