INFLAMMATION. 69.9 lie carotids, when the person alluded to is in ealth, beat equally as to strength and frequency; ut, when he is attacked with inflammation in the Jit tonsil, to which he is particularly subject, nd which proceeds sometimes so far as nearly , prevent deglutition, each pulsation of the artery ;Ves a throbbing sensation on the right side of ie |iead. On the application of the hand at this me to each carotid, the right is found to beat .uch stronger and fuller, than the left. This ivrsitv of action in these two arteries cannot rise from any impulse given by the blood to i,. heart: it must be derived from some mo- itication of the contractile power of the artery.” ind Dr. Hastings expresses his belief in this ex lanation, notwithstandingDr. C. H. Parry wishes i attribute to the remote influence of the heart oine of the phenomena of local congestion and lotion, and to shew, that the different states of vascular dilatation are still more conspicuously onnected with the different degrees of action of he heart, and the consequent momentum of the flood than with local circumstances ; and that he proneness to local dilatation, or, as it is railed, action, is a consequence of slowly suc- :eediug, but continued impulse. The blood vessels, through every part of the vstem, possess a considerable share of irritability, jy which they contract, and propel forward their rontents. Hence, the blood, by the action of the -essels, receives a new impulse in the most mi- ;ute tubes, and a well regulated momentum is •reserved in every part of its course. But, of :til parts of the sanguiferous system, the ca- •illaries seem most eminently endowed with this acuity, and are least indebted to the presiding nlluence of the heart. Yet even, in these vessels, lie action of the heart is of high importance in attaining the healthy circulation, inasmuch as t gives the first impulse to the blood, and pre- serves the harmony of the sanguiferous system. The vessels are endowed with this vital pro- perty, in order that each organ in the body may receive such a supply of blood, as will enable it duly to exercise its functions. Hence, a healthy state of this property is absolutely necessary for the preservation of the animal functions; for, if the vital contraction of the blood vessels be either increased, or diminished, irregular distribution of the blood inevitably follows, and from this source numerous diseases arise, and none more frequently, than inflammation. However, though ' esc sentiments, delivered by Dr. Hastings, may be generally correct, I am not prepared to join in the opinion, that inflammation is ever pro- duced simply by an inequality in the distribution ot the blood ; a statement, which this gentleman probably does not mean to make himself, as he confesses, that some of the phenomena of this disease depend upon sympathy between the san- guiferous and nervous systems. (See Hastings UH Inflammation o f the Mucous Membrane of the I.mgs, A(c.j>.32, 6-),65, Vvo. Loud. 1820; and (. It. Party, Additional Experiments on the. Arteries, Sfc.p 1 12, 114 ; Also Why it on tin: Motion of the Fluids in the small Vessels ; * erschuir dr Arteriarnm cl Venarum vi irri- lutnK; Zimmermann dc irritubilUate, p- 24; tin tiler on the Flood, dj-c.) >r' n attributed the proximate cause of ■ .Humiliation to a “ spasm of the extreme arteries supporting an increased action in the course of them.” This theory only diflers from that of Boerliaave in the cause which is assigned for the obstruction. Dr. Cullen conceived, however, that some causes of inequality in the distribution of the blood, might throw an unusual quantity of it into particular vessels, to which it must ne- cessarily prove a stimulus; and, that in order to relieve the congestion, the vis medicatrix naturae increases still more the action of the vessels; which, as in all other febrile diseases, it affects, by the formation of a spasm on their extremities.” “ A spasm of the extreme arteries, supporting an increased action in the course of them, may, therefore, be,considered as the proximate cause of inflammation ; at least, in all cases not arising from direct stimuli applied; and, even in this ease, the stimuli may be supposed to produce a spasm of the extreme vessels.” (Cullen.) The inconsistencies in Cullen’s theory are very glaring. The congestion or accumulation of blood, which is only an effect or consequence of inflammation, is set down as the cause of the spasm of the vessels, to which spasmodic con- striction Cullen, strangely enough, assigns the name of proximate cause. The spasmodic con- traction of the extremities of the vessels, instead of propelling the accumulated quantity of blood, would render the passage of the blood from the arterial into the venous system still more diflicult. (Burns.) We shall now notice the celebrated, and very- original opinions promulgated on thi^ subject by- John Hunter. According to him inflammation is to be considered only as a disturbed state of parts, which requires a new, but salutary mode of action, to restore them to that state, wherein a natural mode of action alone is necessary From such a view of the subject, therefore, inflamma- tion in itself is not to be considered as a disease, but as a salutary' operation, consequent either to some violence or some disease. Elsewhere, the author remarks, the act of inflammation is to be considered as an increased action of the vessels, which, at first, consists simply in an increase or distention beyond their natural size. This increase seems to depend upon a diminution of the muscular power of. the vessels, at the same time that the elastic power of the artery must be dilated in the same proportion. This is, there- fore, something more than simply a common relaxation: we must suppose it an action in the parts to produce an Increase of size for particular purposes, and this Mr. Hunter would call an act of dilatation. The whole is to be considered as a necessary operation of nature. Owing to this dilatation, there is a greater quantity of blood circulating in the part, which is according to tiie common rules of the animal economy; for, when- ever a part has more to do than simply to sup- port itself, the blood is there collected in larger quantity. The swelling is produced by an ex- travasation of coagulable lymph, with some serum : but, this lymph diflers from the com- mon lymph, in consequence of passing through inflamed vessels. It is this lymph which be- comes the uniting medium of inflamed parts; vessels shoot into it; and it has even the power of becoming vascular itself- The pain proceeds from spasm. The redness is produced either by the arteries being more dilated than the veins, or