948 PTERYGIUM. “ending far in the white of the eye, Scarpa pre- fers detaching them at their apex, as far as the junction of the cornea with the sclefotiea, and then to separate them at their base by a semi- circular incision, comprehending one line in breadth ol the substance of the conjunctiva, and made in a direction concentrical with the edge of the cornea. Scarpa has observed, that in this mode ot operating, the subsequent cure takes place sooner, than when the common method is adopted; the cicatrix occasions no sort of frae- num, and the conjunctiva, circularly stretched by the cicatrix, lies smoothly over the white of the eye, and loses that relaxation, and varicous state, which are the ground-work of the pterygium. Such attention, however, is not requisite, when the pterygium is small, and its base does not ex- tend far in the white of the eye. The operator, after desiring the patient to move his eyeball towards the part corresponding to the base of the pterygium, is to take hold of J^the membrane with a pair of forceps held in his left hand, and pinch it into a fold, at about one line front its apex. The duplicature is now to be raised, and drawn out gently until a sensation of something giving way is felt, which indicates the detachment of the pterygium from the delicate cellular texture, by which it is connected with the subjacent cornea. Next, by means of a pair of scissars, the surgeon must dissect this fold, as closely as possible, from the cornea, proceed- ing from the apex towards the base of the ptery- gium. The section being completed to where the cornea and sclerotica meet, the fold is to be again elevated still more, and, with one stroke of the scissars, the pterygium, and the relaxed portion of the conjunctiva, forming its base, are to be detached, as concentrically, and closely to the cornea, as possible. This second incision will .have a semilunar shape, the horns of which ought to extend two lines beyond the relaxed part of the conjunctiva in following the curva- ture of the eyeball. When the operation is finished, the surgeon must promote the hemorrhage, by washing the part with warm water, and then cover the eye, that has been operated on, with a pledget of dry lint, or lint moistened in the liquor plumbi acet. dilutus, kept on with a bandage, that does not make too much pressure. If no particular symptoms arise, such as pain, tension of the eye, considerable tumefaction of the eyelids, it is sufficient to wash the eye, and inside of the eyelids, three or four times a day with a warm lotion of mallows, and carefully keep these parts from being exposed to the air, without compressing them. If the symptoms just mentioned should occur, antiphlogistic treatment must be adopted. On the fifth or sixth day, at latest, after the operation, all the surface, from which the ptery- gium was cut, appears yellowish, and covered with a fluid, like mucus. The edges of the wound, and the adjoining part of the conjunc- tiva, assume a reddish colour. Afterwards, the surface of the wound contracts more and more daily, and, at length, completely closes. During the whole treatment, subsequent to the operation, there is no occasion to employ anv other topical applications, but the warm Numerous cases have convinced Scarpa, that astringent collyria, and the boasted powders of the florentine iris, and alum, cause great irri- tation to the eye operated on, and give rise to tumefaction, and a fungous state of the con- junctiva, which are impediments to the cure. What is still more incommodious, is, that such means produce fungous excrescences on the middle of the wound itself, which admit of being' repressed and cicatrized with difficulty. Scarpa has seen all these inconveniences arise from one single unnecessary application of the argentum nitratuin. On the other hand, when a mere lotion of mallows is the only remedy employed in the treatment, the cure proceeds regularly; the yellowish surface of the incision diminishes daily, and in three, or, at most, four weeks, the wound is quietly healed. The zinc collyrium, containing a few drops of camphorated spirit of wine, can only be prudently instilled, three or four times a day into the eye, for the purpose of obviating the relaxation of the conjunctiva and its vessels, after the wound is perfectly cicatrized. The incipient pterygium (adds this author) is not a dense, opaque membrane, but a pellicle as fine as a cobweb, interwoven in different places with varicous blood vessels, the iris continuing tolerably visible behind it. In this early state of the pterygium, it is unnecessaiy to deprive the cornea of its natural covering; it is quite enough to cut off a portion of it, in order to intercept all communication between the dilated venous ramifications of the pterygium, and the varicous trunks in the white of the eye. The recision, says Scarpa, is accomplished by culting out, with a pair of forceps and scissars, a semilunar piece of the conjunctiva, at the point where the cornea and sclerotica conjoin, and exactly at the base of the incipient pterygium, just as is practised for opacity of the cornea. The recent pterygium is observed to disappear gradually after the operation, or to change into a slight dimness of the cornea, extending over a part of the space previously occupied the disease. This opacity is commonly much more trivial, than what follows a cicatrix. Acrel, in his Surgical Observations, mentions having suc- cessfully treated an incipient pterygium in this manner. Scarpa has also tried the- plan several times with success. Such treatment must be better, than merely making two or three deep cuts, or scarifications, in the membrane, near the edge of the cornea, as advised by Beer. (/?. 2, p. 641.) And, in proof of the uncer- tainty of the latter method, we find Beer himself speaking of the necessity of using stimulating ap- plications, like powdered sugar, alum, the vinous tincture of opium, &e. if the operation is not of itself sufficient. In the pterygium crassum, Beer recommends the knife, as the best means of cure ; but, he differs essentially from Scarpa, not merely in preferring a knife to the scis- sars, but in beginning the operation by making a deep cut through the base of the ptery- gium in the white of the eye, from which point he continues the dissection of the pterygium, till this is all removed as far as its apex on the cornea, when he uses either the knife, or scis- sars, as most convenient. (/?. 1, p. G43.) Beer mentions, that it sometimes happens,