LITHOTOMY. 794 TREATMENT AFTER THE OPERATION. If the internal pudendal artery should be wounded, and bleed profusely, the best plan is, if possible, first to take out the stone, and then introduce into the wound a piece of firm sponge, with a large cannula passed through its centre. The expanding property of the sponge, on its becoming wet, will make the necessary degree of compression of the vessel, which lies too deeply to be tied. When there is much coagulated blood lodged in the bladder, it is customarv to wash it out by injecting lukewarm water. I cannot say, that it has fallen to my lot to see any cases (out of the great number which I have seen in Bartholomew’s Hospital), in which death could be imputed to hemorrhage, notwith- standing the bleeding has often been so profuse, and from so deep a source, just after the opera- tion, as to create suspicion, that it proceeded from the internal pudendal artery. Such hemor- rhage generally stopped before the patient was put to bed. The majority of patients who die after litho- tomy perish of peritoneal inflammation. Hence, on the least occurrence of tenderness over the abdomen, copious venesection should be put in practice. At the same time, eight or ten leeches should be applied to the hypogastric region. The belly should be fomented, and the bowels kept open with the oleum ricini. The feebleness of the pulse should not deter the practitioner from using the lancet; this]svinptom is only fallacious; and it is generally attendant on all inflammation within the abdomen. It is a curious fact, that Mr. Martineau, who has lost only 2 out of 84 patients, whom he has operated upon for the stone, should never'have found it requisite to bleed; but, it appears to me, that it is a much better argument in favour of the superior safety of operating with the knife and making a free opening, than reason for discouraging venesection, when inflammation of the peritoneum has come on, which, however, may not be this gentleman’s meaning, as he says, “ I believe, it will be found in adults, that death follows oftener from exhaustion, after a tedious operation, or from despondency, A'c. than from acute disease;’' (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11, p. 4 12.) a sentiment, which, I am sure, this gentleman would not have entertained, had he been present with me at the opening of the many unfortunate cases, which used formerly to occur in the practice with badly made gorgets in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Together with the above measures, the warm bath, a blister on the lower part of the abdomen, and emollient glysters, are highly proper. I have seen several old sub- jects die of the irritation of a diseased thickened bladder, continuing after the stone was extracted. They had not the acute symptoms, the inflam- matory fever, the general tenderness and tension of the abdomen, as in cases of peritonitis; but they referred their uneasiness to the lower part of the pelvis; and instead of dying in the course of two or three days, as those usually do, who perish of peritoneal inflammation, they, for the most part, lingered for two or three weeks after the operation. In these cases, opiate glysters, and blistering the hypogastric region, are the best measures. In some instances of this kind, Whoever wishes to acquire a perfect know- ledge of the history of lithotomy should consult the following works: Celsus de Jlc Mcdicu, lib. 7. cap. 20‘. Rcmarqucs svr la Chirurgic de Chauliuc, par M. Simon de Mingclouzeaux, tom. 2.; Bourdeaux, 1663. ha Legende da Gascon par Drelincourt; Paris, 1665. Van Horne's Opnscula. Marianas de Lapide Vesicce par Incisioncm extrahendo; 1552. G. 1'ubr. Hildanus, Lithotomia Vesicce, 8vn. Lond. 1640. M. S. Barolitanus, De Lapide Renum. Ejut- dem de Lapide Vesicce per Ineisionem extra- hendo, 4to. Paris, 1540. Le Drun, Parallels dcs Differcntes Manieres de tirer la Pierre hors de la Vessie, 2 Vol. 8vo. 1730. Sharp’s Operations. Sharp's Critical Enquiry. Le Dran's Operations, Edit. 5; London, 1781. Franco's Traite. dcs Hernias, 1561. Roscius de Partis Ccesario. Traite de la Litlwtomic, par F. Tolet, Paris, Sme Ed. 1708. IJeister's Surgery, Part 2. Lithotomia Douglassiana, 1723. J. Douglas, History of the Lateral Operation, 4to. Lond. 1726. Fr. M. Colot, Traite de l'Operation dc la Taille, S[C. \‘Jmo. Paris, 1727. Morand, Traite de la Taille an haut appareil, 12mo. Paris, 1728. J. Mery, Observations sur la Manlere de Tailler, §c. pratiquec par Frerc Jacques, 12mo. Paris, 1700. Cours d'Operations dc Chirurgic par Dionis. Traite dcs Operations par Garcngeot, Tom. 2. Morand Opuscules dc Chirurgic. Bertrandi Traite. dcs Operations. Index Su- pcllectilis Anatomicce Raviance; Lei doe, 1725. J. G. Ilscmann, De Lithotomia Crlsiame Prcestantia ; Hclmst. 17 45. Le Cat, Rrcucil de Pieces sur l’Operation dc la Taille, Part 1 ,• Rouen, 1749. Cosine, Rccucil de Pieces Ana- tomiqnes importautes sur I'Operation de la Taille; Paris, 1751 —1753. J. Douglas, Postscript to Hist, of the Lateral Operation ; 1726. J. Douglas, Appendix to Hist, of the Lateral Operation ; 1731. A short Historical Account of Cutt ing for the Stone, by TV. Che- selden, in his own hist Edition of his Anatomy. Falconet in Thes. Chirnrg. HaUcri; thes. 103, T. 4, p. 196. Ilartinkeil; Tract at ns de Vesicce UrinaricE Calculo, <£r. 1785. Traite Historique ct Dogmatique de V Opt ration dc la Taille, par J. F. L. Dcschamps, 4 Tom. Hvo. Paris 1796. This last work is a very complete and full account of the subject up to the time of its publication, and well merits a cqrefitl perusal. Richerand's Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 638, c$'c. Ed. 4. Lcvcillc, Nonvclle Doc- trine Chir. T. 3, p. 533. > John Bell's Prin- ciples of Surgery, Vol. 2, Part 1. A. Burns, in Edinb. Med. and Snrg. Journal, January, 1808. C. Bell's Operative Surgery, Vol. 1, 1807. Sabatier, dc la Mvdccine Operatoire, Toni. 3, Edit. 2, 1810. Dr. John Thomson's Observations on Lithotomy; Edinb. 1808. Also an Appendix to a proposal for a new manner of cutting for the Stone, 8vo Edinb. 1810. Allans Treatise on Lithotomy; Edinb. 1808. Earle's Practical Observations on Opera- tions for the Stone; 2d Ed. with an appendix con- taining a descr iption of an instrument calculated to improve that operation, 8vo. Lond. 1803. JVm. Deasc, Obs. on the different methods for the. radical cure of the Hydrocele, <$r. To which i. n /’niijtirtrn/inp. uit’.'H' nt the. Hiffn nit