378 DISLOCATION. the lore-arm violently outward, or inward. A footman, says Petit, in falling from a coach, had liis arm entangled in the spokes of a wheel, and a dislocation outward was the consequence. An- other man luxated his fore-arm inward, by falling Iroin his horse and driving his arm against an uneven place. When the ulna is pushed into the situation of the radius, the space, between the olecranon and internal condyle, is much greater, than natural, and the radius cannot be easily rotated, nor the lore arm bent, and extended, in a perfect manner. The dislocation inward must be uncommon, as the form of the bones is almost an insur- mountable obstacle to such an accident. It may happen, however, as the authority of Petit con- firms. All recent dislocations of the elbow are easily reduced, and as easily maintained so ; for a dis- placement is prevented by the reciprocal manner in which the articular surfaces receive each other, and by their mutual eminences and cavities. This consideration, however, should not lead us to omit the application of a bandage in the form of a figure of 8, and supporting the arm in a sling. BISLOCATJON OF THE RADIUS FROM THE ULNA. The majority of authors, who have written on dislocations of the fore-arm, have not separately considered those of the radius. Some detached observations, on luxations of its superior extre- mity, are to be found here and there ; a subject, which was first well treated of by Duverney. But, dislocations, of its lower end, which are more frequent, remained unnoticed, until De- sault favoured the profession with a particular account of them. The radius, the moveable agent of pronation and supination, rolls round the ulna, which forms its immoveable support, by means of two articu- lar surfaces ; one above, slightly convex, broad internally, narrow outwardly, and corresponding to the little sigmoid cavity of the ulna, in which it is lodged; the other below, concave, semicir- cular, and adapted to receive the convex edge of the ulna. Hence, there are two joints, differing in their motions, articular surfaces, and liga- ments. Above, the radius, in pronation and supination, only moves on its own axis; below, it rolls round the axis of the ulna. Here, being more distant from the centre, its motions must be both more extensive and powerful, than they are above. The head of the radius, turning on its own axis in the annular ligament, cannot dis- tend it in any direction. On the contrary, be- low, the radius, in performing pronation, stretches the posterior part of the capsule, and presses it against the immoveable bead of the ulna, which is apt to be pushed through, if the motion be forced. A similar event, in a contrary direction, takes place in supination. The front part of the capsule, being rendered tense, may now be la- cerated. Add to this disposition, the difference of strength between the ligaments of the two joints. Delicate, and yielding, below; thick, and firm, above; their difference is very great. The up- per head of the radius, supported on the smaller immoveable articular surface of the ulna, is pro- tected from dislocation in most of its motions. •On the contrary, its lower end. carrying along with it, in its motions, the tones of the carpus, which it supports, cannot itself derive any solid stability from them. 1'roin what has been said, the following con- clusions may be drawn : 1. That with more causes of luxation, the lower articulation of the radius has less means of resistance; and, that under the triple consideration of motions, liga- ments tying the articular surfaces together, and the relations of these surfaces to each other, this joint must be very subject to dislocation. 2. That, for opposite reasons, the upper joint must rarely, or according to Desault, never be exposed to such an accident. This author here excludes from consideration, cases, in which the annular ligament of the radius is lacerated in a luxation of both heads of the radius and ulna backwards; an accident, the reality of which is admitted. But, Desault particularly confines his doubts to a dislocation of the upper bead of the radius front the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, as a single and uncomplicated injury, sud- denly produced by an external cause, and, there- fore, neither to be confounded with the cases above specified, nor with other examples, in which .the displacement happens slowly, especially in children, in consequence of a diseased or relaxed state of the ligaments. Notwithstanding the opinion of Desault, some instances of dislocation of the upper head of the radius, suddenly produced by external causes, are recorded by Duverney ; the particulars of another ease were transmitted to the French Academy of Surgery; and I have lately been informed of four examples, which have been met with in this country. Two of these cases occurred in the practice of Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough ; one in that of Mr. Lawrence; and the other was attended by Mr. Earle. Baron Boyer says, that many instancesare now known, in which the upper head of the radius has been dislocated backwards; indeed, in opposi- tion to what Desault has stated, he asserts, that dis- locations of the lower joint between the radius and ulna are more rare, than those of the upper joint fit between the same bones. The latter accident he has twice seen himself, but he believes, that no authentic case of a dislocation forwards is yet upon record. (Mu/. Chir. T. 4, p. 248.) The displacement backwards is described by this author, as occurring more readily and fre- quently in children, than in adults, or old subjects. The reason of this circumstance is ascribed to the lesser firmness both of the ligaments,jind of the tendinous fibres of the exterior muscles, which fibres, in a more advanced age, contribute greatly to strengthen the external lateral ligament. In a child, also, the little sigmoid cavity of the ulna is smaller, and the annular ligament, extending r further round the head of the radius, is longer, and more apt to give way. Hence, in a subject of this description, efforts, which may not at first produce a dislocation, if frequently repeated, ; cause a gradual elongation of the ligaments, a change in the natural position of the bones, and, . at length, a degree of displacement as great as in a case of luxation, suddenly and immediately effected. (Trait£ tics Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 239.) Another fact, mentioned by Boyer, is, that the dislocation of the upper head of the radius | backwards is always complete, its articular sin* j faces being perfectly separated both from the j