Ji2 INFLAMMATION. {B. Bell.) However, surgeons of the present day seem to think, that vinegar can be as advan- tageously applied in the form of a lotion, as in that of a poultice, and, certainly, with less trouble. Alcohol and rether have acquired some cele- brity as local remedies for inflammation. No doubt, one great reason why they are not more extensively used for this purpose is, the ex- pense attending such treatment, as these fluids evaporate with great rapidity. Alcohol may possibly prove useful from its astringent quali- ties ; but it seems much more rational to impute both its virtue, and that of aether, to the power- ful manner, in which their evaporation deprives the inflamed part of its heat. Warm Applications. The absurdity of at- tempting to reconcile every useful practice with a philosophical theory, is, in no instance, more strikingly exemplified, than in the opposite sorts of local applications, which are of service in in- flammation. The generality of cases undoubt- edly receive most relief from the use of cold sedative astringent lotions: but there are con- stitutions and parts, which derive most service from the local employment of warm emollient remedies. Were I to endeavour to define the particular instances, in which the latter applications avail most, I should take upon me a task, which has baffled all the most able surgical writers. The first stage of the acute ophthalmv, and the hernia humoralis, or inflamed testicle, may be specified, however, as examples, in which, gene- rally speaking, warm emollient applications are better than cold astringent ones. Yet, even with respect to inflammation of the testis, there is some difference of opinion about the supe- riority of cold or warm applications. Mr. James’s sentiments are as follows: in the treat- ment it is of importance to consider the differ- ences of the cause : thus, in mumps and rheuma- tism, the constitution is chiefly to be attended to, and cold applications are certainly improper. When it (the inflammation of the testis; arises from a blow, after leeches have been freely em- ployed, fomentations are the best remedy. But Mr. James thinks, that this is not the case, in many instances of hernia humoralis from go- norrhoea, where cold applications are prefer- able ; but, he owns, that the feelings of the pa- tient will best determine the point. {James, on Inflammation, p. 164.) 4‘ Fomentations, or embrocations with warm water, (as a judicious writer has remarked) are often a very powerful means of abating internal inflammation. This effect is very apparent in some of the deeper seated inflammations, as in the inflammation of the urinary bladder, intes- tines, or other viscera contained within the cavity of the abdomen. The warmth, in this case, may be applied to the surface of the ab- domen, by bath or fomentation, or, in the way of injection, by the anus, &c. In some inflam- mations of the joints, warmth also is found to be very useful. These, however, are inflam- mations, which have a tendency to the chronic state.” (See Thomson on Inflammation, p. 188.) If we may judge by the feelings of certain patients, there are undoubtedly particular consti- tutions, in which the local use of warm reme- dies produces greaLer relief than that of cold ones. This circumstance, however, does not generally happen ; and, as warm emollient appli- cations, of all kinds, have the most powerful influence in promoting suppuration, a fact ad- mitted by every experienced practitioner, the use of such remedies, while the resolution of inflammation is practicable, must be highly censurable. But, I am ready tc grant, that in all cases of inflammation, which manifestly cannot be cured without suppuration, the emollient plan of treatment ought to be at once adopted ; for, the sooner the matter is formed, the sooner the inflammation itself is stopped. The inflammation attending contused and gun- shot wounds, and that accompanying boils and carbuncles, are of this description The in- flammation, originating in fevers, commonly ends in suppuration, and, in such instances, per- haps, it might be advantageous, also, to employ at once the emollient treatment. Warmth and moisture together, in other words fomentations, are commonly had recourse to in eases of inflammation; but, when the warmth is as much as the sensitive principle can bear, it excites action. Whether it is the action of inflammation, or the action of the contraction of the vessels, is unknown. We see that many patients cannot bear warmth, and, therefore, it might be supposed to increase the action of di- latation, and do harm. But, if the pain should arise from the contraction of the inflamed ves- sels, benefit would be the result; though we must doubt that this change is produced, as making the vessels contract would probably give ease. {Hunter.) From the preceding observations, wTe must perceive how vain it is to theorize on this sub- ject, which even puzzled the genius and pene- tration of a Hunter. In addition to what has been already observed, I feel totally incapable of giving any useful practical advice, with respect to those cases, in which warm emollient ap- plications should be used in preference to cold astringent ones. I can, however, with con- fidence remark, that the surgeon, who consults the feelings and comfort of the patient on this point, will seldom commit any serious error. Hence, in all cases, in which the first kind of topical applications seem not to produce the wonted degree of relief, let the second sort be tried. From the opportunity of comparison, a right judgment may then be easily formed. The poultice made of the powder of linseed is so easily prepared, that the old bread and milk poultice is now seldom employed. As much hot water is to be put into a basin, as the size of the poultice requires, and then the linseed powder is to be gradually mixed with the water, till the mass is of a proper consistence. Frequently, a little sweet oil is also added to keep the appli- cation longer soft and moist. Fomentations are only to be considered as temporary applications, while the emollient poultices are the permanent ones. The former are, at most, never used more than three times a dav, for the space of about half an hour each time. Two of the best are the following: — R. Liui contusi |j. Chamacmeli f-ij. Aq. Distill. ][}vj. Paulisper coque et cola. Or,