1G4 ANEURISM. quite absorbed, though a pulsation existed in it till the beginning of September. The man’s intellects remained perfect; his nervous system was unaffected ; and the severe pain, which, be- fore the operation used to affect the ancurismal side of the head, never returned The swelling, at the time of the operation, was about as large as a pullet’s egg, and situated on the left side about the acute angle, made by the bifurcation of the common carotid, just under the angle of the jaw. Mr. A. Cooper began the incision opposite the middle of the thyroid cartilage, at the base of the tumor, and extended the wound to within an inch of the clavicle, on the inner side of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. On raising the margin of this muscle, the omo-hvoideus could be distinctly seen crossing the sheath of the vessels, and the nervus descendens noni was also brought into view. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus was now separated from the omo-hyoideus, when the jugular vein was seen. This vessel became so distended at every expiration as to cover the artery. When the vein was drawn to one side, the par vagum was manifest, lying between that vessel and the carotid artery, but a little to the outer side of the artery. The nerve was easily avoided. A double ligature was then conveyed under the artery with a blunt iron probe. The lower ligature was immediately tied, and the upper one was also drawn tight, as soon as about an inch of the artery had been separated from the sur- rounding parts above the first ligature, so as to allow the second to be tied at this height. A needle and thread were passed through the vessel below one ligature, and above the other. The artery was then divided. In a little more than nine weeks, the wound was quite healed, and the patient entirely recovered. (See Med. C/iir. Tram. Vo'. 1.) Another successful instance, in which the carotid was tied for the cure of an aneurism, is related in a work, to which I always have the greatest pleasure in referring. (See Hodgson's Treatise on the Diseases nf Arteries, p. 329.) Mr. Travers, surgeon to St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, tied the carotid artery in a woman, who had an aneurism hy anastomosis in the left orbit. The disease had pushed the eye out of its socket. Two small ligatures were applied, which came away on the twenty-first and twenty-second day. No hemorrhage, nor impairment of the functions of the brain took place, and the disease in the orbit was effectually cured. (See Med. C/iir. Trans. Vol. 2.) Another highly interesting example, in which an aneurism by anastomosis in the orbit was effectually cured by tying the carotid artery, is recorded by Mr. Didrymple, surgeon at Nor- wich. This gentleman performed the operation on the 12th of November, 4812. The patient was a female, aged 44. ’Ihe protrusion of the eye was relieved in proportion as the swelling diminished. The violent headachs also subsided ; but the eyesight was irrecoverably lost. (See Med. C'lir, Trans. Vol. G,p. 111.) An interesting case, in which my friend Mr. Vincent tied the carotid trunk for an aneurism, is published in the 10th vol. of the latter work. (/'. 212, &e.) In this example, the internal jugular vein did not appear to be at all in the way during the operation ; some of the fibres of the omoliyoideus, however, could not be con- veniently drawn aside, and were therefore divided. A single ligature was applied; the pulsation in the tumor did not entirely cease, at first, when the artery was tied, but it did so two days after- wards ; and the swelling was rapidly diminishing. The ligature came away about three weeks after the operation, and there was every hope of a cure; but between the fourth and fifth week, a con- siderable swelling occurred between the wound and the jaw, impeding deglutition, but not the breathing. This state was followed bv febrile symptoms, increased difficulty of swallowing; an attack of coughing ; and impeded respiration. In the hope of affording relief, an incision was made in the tumor, from which a small quantity of pus and coagulum issued; but, it was in vain, for the patient was dying. On dissection, the carotid artery was found perfectly closed as far as the division of the arteria innomiuata. But, above where the ligature had been, the vessel was open and inflamed, and pus was found in it. The most remarkable circumstance noticed was glo- bules of air, adhering to the inner surface of the aorta, and other large arteries, and found also underthe tunica arachnoidea. The bulk of the swell- ing in the neck depended upon effusion of serum in the cellular membrane. In order to get at the carotid artery in the safest manner, Mr. Abernethy has recom- mended making an incision on that side of it which is next the trachea, where no important parts are exposed to injury, and then to pass a finger underneath the vessel. The par vagum must be carefully excluded from the ligature; for to tie it would be fatal. (Surgical Observa- tions, 1804.) The cure of carotid aneurisms by the operation has now been so often exemplified, that even to refer to every case upon record would demand more space than I can at present afford. A suc- cessful instance is reported by Macaulay (Edin. Med. Surg. Journ. April, 1814); another by Dr. Post, who used two ligatures, and divided the artery in the space between them (Mew England Journ. of Medicine and Sitrgerv, 1 ot. S. 205, Boston, 1814); another by Mr, Giles I.yford, proving the sufficiency of a single ligature, (Med. Chir. Trans. VuL II, p. 97, Sc.) The case, in which Mr. Goodlad tied, the carotid, in order to prevent hemorrhage in the removal of a tumor involving the parotid gland, is contained in Vol. 7, p. 112, &c. of the latter book. The best anatomical engravings of the parts, concerned in the operation of taking up the carotid artery, are those by Rosenmiiller. (See Chirurg. Anatom. Abbildungen, Thl. 1, tab. 7, 8, 9.) For the particulars of a carotid aneurism cured by the ligature of the artery by M. Dumont. (See Diss. sur I’Ancurisme de /’Artere carotidc, par P. J. Vanderhaohen, Puris, 1815.) Walther of Landslmt, in the year 1814, tied the carotid artery for the. cure of an aneurism with complete success; he applied only a single ligature. (Breschct, Pr. Tcausl. of Mr. Hodgson's work, T. 2, p. 83.) In this translation are reported se- veral instances, in which Dupuytren and other J