115G VENEREAL DISEASI « 1 * 1 1 ,1 ;.. 4 _ i 1 . ‘ 1 A.a buboes. This writer is of opinion, that they are not venereal, ami he states, that they are very apt to recur. Mr. Hunter does not specify any particular mode of cure for all these cases; but he mentions one instance, which seemed to be cured by giving forty drops of the liquor potasste, every evening and morning, in a basin of broth ; and he ad- verts to another case, which was permanently cured by sea-bathing. In some instances, after a chancre has healed, the parts, as Mr. Hunter remarks, do not ulcer- ate ; but appear to become thickened, and indu- rated. Both the glans and prepuce seem to swell, to as to form on the end of the penis a tumor, or excrescence, shaped very much like a cauliflower, and, when cut into, showing radii, running from its base, or origin, towards the external surface. It is extremely indolent, and not always a consequence of the venereal disease; for, Mr. Hunter has seen it arise spontaneously. No medicine seems to be at all likely to cure the disease; the only successful means is to am- putate a considerable part of the penis, and then to keep a proper catheter introduced in the urethra. Another disposition, induced by the previous occurrence of chancres, is that to excrescences, or cutaneous tumors, called warts. These are frequently considered not simply as a consequence of the venereal poison, but, as possessed of its specific disposition, and therefore, says Mr. Hun- ter, surgeons have recourse to mercury for the cure of them ; and it is said, that such treatment often removes them. This eminent practitioner never saw mercury produce this effect, although the medicine was given in sufficient quantity to cure recent chancres, and a lues venerea, in the same person. (See Wart.') Mr. Hunter takes notice of sloughs, which occur in the tonsils, from the effect of mercury on the throat, and are apt to be mistaken for venereal complaints. He also mentions, that, sometimes, when the original chancre has been doing well, and been nearly healed, he has seen new sores break out on the prepuce, near the first, and assume all the appearance of chancres. When, in the treatment of chancres, a bubo arises, while the constitution is under the influ- -ence of a sufficient quantity of mercury to cure such sores, which medicine has also been rubbed into the lower extremity, on the same side as the bubo, Mr. Hunter suspects, that the swelling in the groin is not venereal, but is produced by the mercury. In these cases, he always preferred conveying mercury into the system in some other manner. With respect to the treatment of chancres in women, since it is difficult to keep dressings on the parts, Mr. Hunter advises the sores to be frequently washed with some mercurial solution, and speaks of one, made with oxymuriate of mer- cury, as perhaps being the best, since it will act as a specific, and stimulant also, when this is requisite. When the chancres, however, are irritable, they are to be treated in the same man- ner. as similar complaints in men. When the sores extend into the vagina, this passage must be kept from becoming constricted, or closed by the introduction of lint. ened and elongated, so that the glans cannot he uncovered. Perhaps, the case is often without remedy. Mr. Hunter, however, very properly recommends trying every possible means, and he informs us, that the steam of warm water, hemlock fomentations, and cinnabar fumigations, are frequently of singular service. When the thickening and enlargement of the prepuce cannot be removed by applications, all the portion, anterior to the glans penis, may be cut away. (See Phymosis.) Bubo. The immediate consequence of a chan- cre, which is called a bubo, and also the remote effects, implied by the constitutional, or second- ary symptoms, arise from the absorption of recent venereal matter from some surface, where it has either been applied or formed. We are already aware, that Air. Hunter be- lieved the matter of gonorrhoea to be capable of communicating the venereal disease. Hence, he explains in the following terms, the three ways in which he thought a bubo might arise in con- sequence of absorption. He observes, that the first and most simple manner, is when the matter, either of a gonorrhoea, or chancre, has only heea applied to some sound surface, without having produced any local effect on the part; but, has been absorbed, immediately after its application. Mr. Hunter affirms, that he has seen instances of this kind, though he confesses, that they are very' rare, and, that, in most cases apparently of this nature, a small chancre mayT be found to have existed. The second mode of absorption, or that taking place in a gonorrhoea, Air. Hunter represents as more frequent. That secondary symptoms do occasionally follow gonorrhoea is yet commonly admitted, though whether they differ essentially from those which follow true chancres, is a point not yet completely settled. However, as far as Air. Carmichael’s experience goes, there is a difference, a part of which consists in the erup- tion being of the papular kind, as it is also after many instances of simple primary ulcers. (See' Ohs. on the Syjnpiojns, <|-c. of Venereal Dis- eases, 8vo. Loud. 1818.) The third mode is the absorption of matter from an ulcer, which may either be a chancre, or a bubo. This mode is by far the most common, and it proves, with many other circumstances, that a sore, or ulcer, is the most favourable for absorption. Air. Hunter believed, that absorp- tion was more apt to take place from sores on the prepuce, than those on the glans. A fourth mode of absorption from a wound is also an occasional occurrence. Air. Hunter notices, that, what is now com- monly' understood by a bubo, is a swelling, taking place in the absorbing system, especially in the glands, and arising from the absorption of some J poison, or other irritating matter. When such ) swellings take place in the groin, they' are called ‘ buboes, whether they proceed from absorption, or not. Air. Hunter regards every abscess in the ab- sorbing system as a bubo, whether in the vessels, or the glands, when it originates from the al- sorption of venereal matter. The matter is taken up by the absorbent vc»*