529 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. having a passage outwards.) It is rather citrious that the first case, which occurred to M. Roux, after his return from England, should be one, which forms a strong argument against perform- ing the operation of Hunter for a wounded ftrterv. “ The case, here alluded to. was that of a wound of the femofal artery with a knife, a little below the middle of the thigh, where M. Roux immediately cut down to the vessel some way above the injur)', and there applied two ligatures, besides a reserve-ligature. On the tenth day, hemorrhage came on, when the tightening of the latter ligature having no effect, M. Roux exposed the artery higher up, and applied fresh ligatures immediately below the profunda. This stopped the hemorrhage from the upper end of the vessel, but, on the follow- ing morning fresh bleeding took place from the lower end of the artery, and it became necessary to lay open the artery below the wound, and, also apply ligatures there. No further bleeding took place. (See Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Medicine, VuL 1, p. 14, 8cn. Land. 1819.) The tenor of the preceding observations is unques- tionably correct, inasmuch as wounded arteries and recent false diffused aneurisms are con- cerned; but with respect to cases of false circum- scribed aneurisms, of some standing, without any external opening in the skin, they are ex- amples, to which the same principles should not always be applied, which are so properly recom- mended to be observed with regard to the other instances. In^hese latter, the blood may either escape from the lower end of the vessel out of the external wound, or into the cellular membrane after the ligature is applied above the aperture in the artery; but, no sooner is a false aneurism encysted, than these dangers are prevented. When the ball moves with little velocitv, the mischief is generally less; the bones are not so likely to be fractured; the parts are less deadened, &c. However, when the velocity is just great enough to splinter a bone, which is touched, the splintering is generally more extensive, than if the impetus of the ball had been much greater, in which case, a piece is more likely to be taken out. When the ball moves slowly, it is more likely to be turned by any resistance it may en- counter in its passage through parts, and hence the wound is more apt to take a winding course. When a ball enters a part with great velocity, mt is almost spent, before it comes out again, in ronsequence of the resistance it has met with, here may be a good deal of sloughing about the mtrance. and little or none about the exit, owing o the different degrees of celerity with which the ■all traversed the parts. (See Hauler.) Gun-shot wounds may have either one, or two •pertures, according as the ball has lodged, or •assed quite through the part. In some cases, heopenings are diametrically oppositceach other; n others they are not so, the direction of the ball laving been changed by the resistance, which it as rnet from a bone, cartilage, tendon, &e. Thus hall has been known to enter just on the inside the ankle, and come out near the knee, to enter ie fore-head and come out at the temple, See. Kicher.ind, N-xogiaphie C'dr. T. 1, p. 219, L-,t, Hennen mentions an instnnee, in lr a ball entered near the pomum Adami, and, after running completely round the neck, was found in the very orifice, at which it had entered. “ This circuitous route is a very frequent oc- currence, particularly when balls strike the ribs, or abdominal muscles; for, they are turned from the direct line by a very slight resistance indeed, although they will at times run along a continued surface, as the length of a bone, along a muscle, or a fascia, to a very extraordinary distance.” Dr. Hennen refers to cases, in which the ball traversed almost the wholeextentof thebody and extremities. “ In one instance, which occurred in a soldier, with his arm extended in the act of endeavouring to climb up a scaling ladder, a ball, which entered about the centre of the humerus, passed along the limb, and over the posterior part of the thorax, coursed among the abdominal muscles, dipped deep through the glutsei, and presented on the forepart of the opposite thigh, about midway down. In another case, a ball, which struck the breast of a man standing erect in the ranks, lodged in the scrotum.” (Principles of Military Surgery, p. 34, Ed. 2.) The opening, where the ball enters, is always smaller than that from which it escapes, and its margin is forced inwards, while the circumference of the other aperture is quite prominent. The contusion and injury, which the parts suffer, are also greatest about the entrance of the ball, owing to the more con- siderable impetus, with which it moves. The yellowish livid hue, around gun-shot wounds, is a sort of ecchymosis, or extravasation of blood. The injured member is often benumbed and stupified, and, when mortification occurs, it spreads with extraordinary rapidity. When the whole constitution is thrown into this kind of torpor, the most fatal consequences are to be apprehended. “ C’est dans cet etat, (says Rieherand) quemourutlechevauleger, dont parle Quesnay; l’etat d’hebetude etait tel, que cet individu a qui l’on proposa l’amputation de la jambe, repondit que ce n’etait pas son affaire.” (Nusngraphie Chirurg. Tom. 1, p. 221, Edit. 2.) In cases of gun-shot wounds, sudden shiverings, syncope, and nervous symptoms are not unfre- quent. Such occurrences, with other bad effects, made the ancients suspect, that something poison- ous was carried into the wound; an opinion, which is now well known to be erroneous. When there is only one opening, we may infer, that the wound contains a foreign body. An exception to this observation occurs, how- ever, when a ball, instead of tearing the clothes, or linen, carries a portion of them, in thV form of a sac, into the wound, and when such portion of the clothes is withdrawn the ball falls out, and if this circumstance be not noticed, the presence of a single opening may lead to the idea, that the bullet is lodged in the part. An instance of this kindls cited by Rare for the purpose of refut- ing the former notion, that the ball burnt the parts. A case, in which a piece of a shirt was carried in this manner four inches into the flesh is mentioned by Mr. Guthrie. (E- 20, Ed. 2.) It is possible also for a ball to be stopped im- mediately it has entered the body, and then to ba ejected by the elasticity of the parts, against which it strikes, as the cartilages of the ribs. (Guthrie, p. 19, Ed. 2.) When there are two apertures made by one shot, the ball has escaped; M M