121 ANEURISM. day, left no further doubt concerning the nature of the swelling. On opening the body after death, an aneuris- nial tumour of prodigious size was discovered. It filled the cavity of the abdomen, from the lumbar and iliac regions of the right side, to the lumbar region of the left side, and it extended from the trunk of the cceliac artery down to the bifurcation of the aorta. The trunk of the aorta divided the tumour into two pouches, of which the right was far the largest, occupying the iliac and lumbar regions. The swelling enveloped the right kidney, and was externally covered by the peritoneum, which membrane was pushed to some distance from the bowels. The quantity of blood, which the aneurism contained, was about five pints; three of which were in its right cavity, and two in its left. This fluid was nearly all in a coagulated state, the coagula being arranged in concentric layers, as is usual in such cases. The centre of the disease presented an oval opening, about three inches long, and one broad, formed in the posterior part of the aorta, between the cceliac and superior mesen- teric arteries. Opposite to this aperture, the bodies of the two last dorsal, and of the two first lumbar vertebrae, were destroyed; an ordinary effect of aneurism on such bones as happen to be near them, but which effect Pelletan had never previously seen take place in so considerable a degree. In fact in this case, while the patient was alive, the lowermost dorsal vertebrae had actually caused a deformed appearance exter- nally, from the effect of the pressure of the tumour on that part of the spine. This was the largest aneurism Pelletan ever saw, and he as- cribes the man s death to nearly the whole mass of the blood being in the aneurismal sac, as most of the vessels, and the heart itself, were quite empty. (Cinnqus Chir. T. 1, p. 97, 100.) CAUSES OF ANEURISM. Aneurisms often seem to originate sponta- neously, it being in many'instances exceedingly difficult to assign any cause for the commence- ment of the disease. Among the circumstances, which predispose to aneurisms, however, the large size of the vessels may undoubtedly be reckoned. Those trunks, which are near the heart, are said to have much thinner parietes, in relation to the magnitude of the column of blood, with which they are filled, than the arteries of smaller diameter; and since the lateral pressure of this fluid against the sides of the arteries, is in a ratio to the magnitude of these vessels, it fol- lows, that aneurisms must be much more frequent in the trunks near the heart, than in sucli as are ■remote from the source of the circulation, (Ihchr- rntifi, JVW-yr. Chir. T. 4, />• 72, K-ri'. 2 ) The ’whole arterial system is liable to aneurisms; but, says Pelletan, experience proves, that the internal arteries are much more frequently affected, than those which are external. (Clinique Chirurguule, Ti>" . |, p. 54.) ' The curvatures of the arteries are another pre- disposing cause of the disease, and, according to Richerand, such cause has manifest effect in de- termining the formation of the great sinus of the aorta, the dilatation, which exists between the cross and the origin of this large artery, and is the more considerable, the older the person is: Monro even thought, that one half of old persons have an aneurism at the beginning of the aorta. And with respect to aneurisms in general, which are preceded by calcareous depositions, thicken- ing, and disease of the coats of the vessel, they are most frequently met with in persons of advanced age. Aneurisms from wounds are of course often seen in individuals of every age. In old people, the coats of the arteries are subject to a disease, which renders them incapable of making due resistance to the lateral impulse of the blood. The disease, here alluded to, is what is described in a foregoing part of tins article, one common effect of which is the deposition of calcareous mat- ter between the inner and muscular coats of the arteries. “ People in the early part of life, says Mr. Wilson, are not very subject to these calca- reous depositions; but, I have occasionally met with them in the arteries of very young people. I have seen.a well marked deposition of the phos- phate of lime in the arteries of a child under three years of age.” He adds, that few persons, above the age of sixty, are free from these ossifications. (See /.ectuns on the. Blond, and outlie Anatomy, Pathnlogn, Xe. of the Vascular System, p. 375, Bond. 18! 9.) Though spontaneous aneurisms are most com- mon in old persons, the disease is not absolutely confined to them; for I assisted Mr. Docker at Canterbury in an operation for the cure of a po- pliteal aneurism in a postilion, whose age must have beer: under thirty ; and Mr. Wilson says, that he has met with several instances of the disease in the aorta and other vessels, where the patients were not more than forty years of age. (Op. ci\ / . 376.) Richerand affirms, that, out of twelve popliteal aneurisms, which he has seen in hospital, or pri- vate practice, ten were caused by a violent exten- sion of the leg. This statement, he says, will de- rive confirmation from the following experiment. Place the knee of a dead subject on the edge of a firm table, and press on the heel, so as for- cibly to extend the leg far enough to make the ligaments of the ham snap. Now dissect the parts, cut out the artery, and examine its parietes in a good light, when the lacerations of the middle coat will he observable, and rendered ma- nifest by the circumstance of those places ap- pearing semitransparent, where the fibres are se- parated, the parietes at such points merely con- sisting of the internal and externa] tunics. (A'o- S'gni/iliie Chir. Tom. 4, p. 73, 74, Ed't 2.) But, the insufficiency of this explanation is clear enough from the fact, that such violence, as is requisite to break the ligaments of the knee, cannot he imagined to happen in the accidents which or- dinarily bring on aneurism in the ham. 'Phe implicit belief also which Richerand seems to place in the idea, that the laceration of the mid- dle coat of an artery will bring on an aneurism, while the inner coat is perfect, will appear to be unfounded, when it is remembered, that Hunter, Home, and Scarpa, even dissected off the external and middle coats of arteries, without being able in this manner to cause an aneurism. Nay, where the experiment has been made of applying n tight ligature to an artery, and immediately removing it again in order to determine whether the divi- sion of both the inner coats of the vessel would