ANEURISM. 109 subject to a morbid dilatation; on the contrary, he gives a particular description of this affection, which he carefully discriminates from aneurism. Previously to offering a more particular ac- count of the doctrine taught by Scarpa, respect- ing the formation of aneurism, as well as of the chief facts, which may be adduced against a part of such doctrine, it seems proper to make the reader acquainted with the various species of the disease, their ordinary symptoms, and a few other circumstances. When any part of an artery is dilated, (at- tended with particular circumstances marking its i difference from another form of dilatation, which, as I shall explain, perhaps ought not to be set down as aneurismal), the swelling is commonly named a tme, or genuine aneurism. In such cases, the ar- tery is either enlarged at only a small part of its track, and the tumour has a determinate border, or, the vessel is dilated for a considerable length, in which circumstance, the swelling is oblong, and loses itself so gradually in the surrounding parts, that its margin cannot be exactly as- certained. The first case, which is the most com- mon, is termed the circumscribed true aneurism; the last, the diffused true aneurism; a case, how- ls ever, which would be looked upon by Scarpa only as a specimen of dilatation, different in several particulars from aneurism, as will be hereafter noticed. When blood escapes from a wound, or rupture, of an artery, into the adjoin- ing cellular substance, the swelling is denominated the spurious, or fulse aneurism. In this instance, the blood either collects in one mass, distends the cellular substance, and condenses it into a ■ cyst, so as to form a distinctly circumscribed tumor; or it is injected into all the cavities of t the surrounding cellular substance, and extends along the course of the great vessels, from one end of the limb to the other, thus producing an irregular, oblong swelling. The first case named, the circumscribed false aneurism ; the second, the diffused false aneurism. (Richter’s Anfangsgr. B. 1.) These appellations are in my opinion pre- ferable to the term cylindrical, applied by Sau- vages to true aneurisms, or sacciform, proposed by Morgagni for false aneurisms. (Advers. Anal. 2, Amice Animadv. 38, et Epist. Avat. 17, No. 27.) Because, as we shall see in the course of this article, though true aneurisms (including dilatations of all the arterial coats of every kind] do mostly affect the whole circumference of the vessel, and must therefore partake of a cylindrical shape, there are exceptions, in which a distinct circumscribed sac, composed of all the coats of the vessel, projects from one side of an artery, the diameter of which may not beat all increased. Here the disease might rather be named sacciform, die very appellation suggested by Morgagni for ialse aneurisms, in which the disease generally originates in this shape, from whatever particular tl,e vessel the inner coats have given way. o see also that the subject actually demands |iore numerous distinctions, since aneurisms un- iergo in their progress various changes, which sometimes makeanimmense, and even averysud- cn difference in their shape, cases which were r fir,st circumscribed, afterwards becoming dif- fused. b The symptoms of the circumscribed true aneurism take place as follows : the first thing the patient perceives is an extraordinary throbbing in some particular situation, and, on paying a little more attention, he discovers there a small pulsating tumor, which entirely disappears, when com- pressed, hut returns again as soon as the pressure is removed. It is commonly unattended with pain, or change in the colour of the skin. When once the tumor has originated, it continually grows larger, and, at length, attains a very con- siderable size. In proportion as it becomes larger, its pulsations become weaker, and, indeed, they are almost quite lost, when the disease has acquired much magnitude. The diminution of the pulsa- tion has been ascribed to the coats of the artery losing their dilatable and elastic quality, in pro- portion as they are distended and indurated, and, consequently, the aneurismal sac being no longer capable of an alternate diastole and systole from the action of the heart. The fact is also imputed to the lamellated coagulated blood, deposited on the inner surface of the sac, particularly, in large aneurisms, in which some of the blood is always interrupted in its motion. Immediately, such coagulated blood lodges in the sac, pressure can only produce a partial disappearance of the swell- ing. This deposition of lamellated coagulum in the aneurismal sac is a circumstance of con- siderable importance; for, it has been well ex- plained by Mr. Hodgson, that it is the mode by which the spontaneous cure of the disease is in most instances effected. “ One of the circum- stances, which in the most early stage generally attend the formation of aneurism, (says this author) is the establishment of that process, which is the basis of its future cure. The blood, which enters the sac soon after its formation, generally leaves upon its internal surface a stratum of coa- gulum, and successive depositions of the fibrous part of the blood gradually diminish the cavity of the tumor. At length, the sac becomes entirely filled witli this substance, and the deposition of it generally continues in the artery, which supplies the disease, forming a firm plug of coagulum, which extends on both sides of the sac, to the next important ramifications that are given off' from the artery. The circulation through the vessel is thus prevented, the blood is conveyed by collateral channels, and another process is in- stituted, whereby the bulk of the tumor is re- moved, &c.” (On the Diseases of Arteries, §c. p. 114.) Whether there is any truth in Krey- sig’s conjecture, that some of the lymph may exude from the inside of the sac itself, I can- not pretend to say : he owns, however, that the inner concentric layers presenting the appearance of being deposited last, is a circumstance rather against his surmise, though lie adverts to some other circumstances which incline him to look upon the opinion as possibly correct. (German Iransl. of Mr. Hodgson's II ark, p. 124.) In a preceding paragraph, I have spoken of the diastole and systole of the aneurismal sac; for, it is the general belief, that the pulsation of the tumor is produced by the jet of blood into it at each stroke of the heart. This opinion, however, is disputed by an eminent writer, who asks, is it true, that the pulsation of aneurisms proceeds from the entrance of u more considerable stream of blood into the sac, and the distention of the swelling thereby produced? In aneurisms, which