S/'O HYDROPHOBIA. some of the canine race. (Hillary on Diseases of Barba docs, p. 24(3.) However, it is asserted, that the disease sometimes originates spontaneously in cats, that is to say, without their having been previously bitten by another rabid animal; but the moderns do not incline to the belief, that it ever has been known to commence in this manner in other animals, though such an assertion is made by Coelius Aurelianus, Porphyrins, Avicenna, Valeriola, Stalpartvander Wiel, &c. not only with respect to man, but horses, asses, camels, hogs, bullocks, bears, monkeys, and even poultry. (See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 45.) It is interesting to inquire, what animals are capable of communicating rabies, and what ani- mals of receiving it? As far as our knowledge yet extends, it appears that animals of the canine species, with perhaps those of the feline race, are the only ones, in which this disorder ever arises spontaneously, and they may transmit it to animals of their own kind, to other quadrupeds, and to man. The experiments, made by Dr. Zincke, tend to prove also that birds, at least the common fowl, may have the disease commu- nicated to them. (Neue Ansichten der Ilunds- wuth, <fyc. Siio. Jena, 1804.) But, though it be well known, that animals of the dog and cat kinds can propagate the disor- der, it is not settled whether it can be communi- cated by other animals. In a memoir, read to the French Institute, M. Huzard explained, that herbivorous quadrupeds, affected with rabies, are incapable of transmitting the disease; a po- sition subsequently confirmed by additional ex- periments and observations made in the vete- rinary school at Alfort. Professor Dupuy could never communicate the distemper to cows and sheep, by rubbing their wounds with a sponge, which animals of the same class, already labour- ing under the disease, had had in their mouths ; D ' , y though the same experiment, made with a sponge, which had been bitten by a rabid dog, propagated rabies by akind of inoculation. Dupuy has likewise seen, amongst several Hocks, sheep affected with rabies, yet the distemper was never communicated by them to other sheep, notwith- standing the latter were bit in parts stripped of wool. Dr. Gillman inoculated two rabits with the saliva of a rabid pig; but the disease was not communicated to them. (On the Bite of a Babul Animal, p. 38.) On the other hand, Mr. King, of Clifton, is stated to have commu- nicated rabies to a fowl, by inoculating it with the saliva of an ox, which had just fallen a victim to the disease. (./. A shimmer, Diss. de Hy- drophobia, p. 29.) The author of the article Rage (Diet, dcs Sciences Med.) observes, re- specting this singular case, that, as it is accom- panied with no details, doubts must remain, whether the fowl actually died of rabies. As for some extraordinary cases, in which the disease is alleged to have been communicated to the human subject by the bites of birds, or injuries done with the claws of animals, they are generally dismissed by modern writers, with the inference, that the complaint thus transmitted was not true hydrophobia or rabies. This con- clusion is made, with respect to the cases of this kind, reported by Coelius Aurelianus and Bader, and the notorious example mentioned by A. Baccius of a gardener, who died of the bite of a cock, which, according to some, was rabid, ac- cording to others, merely enraged. Hildanus also details an instance, in which a young man was scratched on the great toe by a cat; and, some months afterwards, was attacked with hy- drophobia (Obs. Chir. Cent. 1, Ohs. 16.); but, as a modern writer observes, if the patient were really affected with rabies, it is conceivable that the cat's claw, with which the scratch was made, * might have been wet with the animal’s saliva. (Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 47.) Another question of considerable importance is, whether hydrophobia, that is to say rabies, can be communicated from one human being to another?—or whether, in man, the disease is infectious or contagious ? Many attempts have been made, in vain, to communicate the dis- temper to several kinds of animals, by inocu- lating them with the saliva of patients who had perished of the disease. These experiments were made in this country by Gauthier, Vaughan, Babington, &c.; but no infection was the con- sequence. In France, Giraud inoculated several dogs with the saliva of a man in the convulsed stage of hydrophobia, but none of them after- wards took the distemper. (Bosquillon, Mem. sur les Causes de V Hydrophobic, in Mem. dc la Soc. d'Emulation, 5me annee.) M. Girard, of Lyons, collected some of the frothy saliva the instant it was discharged from a patient’s mouth, and he inserted some of it into eight punctures, made on the inside of a dog’s four legs; yet, six months after this inoculation, the animal had not suffered the slightest inconvenience. (Es- sai sur le Tetwnos Rahims, p. 29.) A similar experiment was made on three dogs by M. Pa- roisse, who kept the animals between three and four months afterwards, during all which time they continued quite unaffected. (Bibl. Med. T. 43.) Dr. Bezard published the following experi- ments :—Pieces of the flesh of a person who had died of hydrophobia, were smeared with his saliva, and given to a dog; another dog was suffered to eat the salivary glands; and a third, the sides of a wound. In three other dogs, in- cisions were made, the cut parts were then ino- culated, and sewed up. Not one of these six animals became affected with rabies. (See Mem. ct Obs. lus a la Soc. Med. Philanthropiquc, premiere annee, 1807, p. 17.) The preceding experiments only furnish ne- gative results; but one, to which we shall now I advert, tends to establish a contrary opinion. On the 19th June, 1813, in the Hotel-Dieu, at Paris, Magendie and Breschet took some of the saliva of a man, who died a few minutes after- wards of hydrophobia, and, by means of a bit of rag, they conveyed this saliva to the short dis- tance of twenty paces from the patient’s bed, and inoculated with it two healthy dogs. One of the dogs became rabid on the 27th of July, and bit two others, one of which was attacked with complete rabies on the 26th of August. (C. B a snout; see Collect, dcs Theses, in Ato. dc la Faculte dc Paris, 1814.) It is remarked, in the work, from which I have collected these par- | ticulars, that the foregoing is one of the best jlfc authenticated experiments on the subject; for, f