CATARACT. 305 operation with the needle, the employment of a Elution of the extract of belladonna in an equal part of distilled water, is a point of the first im- portance. “ The space, included between the eyebrow "and lash, should be thickly painted with the solution once, or oftener, in the twenty-four hours, and this varnish should be preserved moist for a period of half an hour, in order to admit of its absorption. The frequency of the application must be determined by its effect upon the pupil. The preternatural dilatation should not be per- manently maintained ; for, if it be, the pupil will in all probability be mis-shapen,” when the use of the belladonna is suspended, and the iris recovers its power. (Synopsis of the Discuses of the Dye, p. 322.) The couching needle (if the curved one be used) is to be held with its convexity forward; its point backward; and its handle parallel to the patient’s temple. The surgeon, having directed the patient to turn the eye towards the nose, is to introduce the instrument boldly through the sclerotic coat, at the distance of at least one line and a half from the margin of the cornea, for fear of injuring the ciliary pro- cesses. Most authors advise the puncture to be made at about one line, and some even at the minute distance of l-16th of an inch (Hey) from the union of the cornea with the sclerotica; but, as the ciliary processes ought invariably to be avoided, and there is no real cause to dread wounding the aponeurosis of the abductor muscle, as some have conceived, the propriety of punc- turing the globe of the eye, at the distance of one line and a half, or two, from the margin of the cornea, as advised by Petit, Platner, Ber- trandi, Beer, &c. must be sufficiently manifest. Nor is it a matter of indifference, at what height the needle is introduced, if it be desirable to avoid, as much as possible, effusion of blood in the operation. Anatomy reveals to us, that the long ciliary artery pursues its course to the iris, along the middle of the external convexity of the eyeball, between the sclerotic and choroid coats; and hence, in order to avoid this vessel, it is prudent to introduce the instrument a full line below the transverse diameter of the pupil, as Dudell, Guntz, Bertrandi, Beer, Scarpa, &c. have directed. If the couching needle were in- troduced higher, than the track of the long ciliary artery, it would be inconvenient for the depres- sion of the cataract. The exact place, where the point of the needle should next be guided, is, no doubt, between the cataract and ciliary processes, in front of the opaque lens, and its capsule : but, as 1 conceive, the attempt to hit this delicate invisible mark, borders upon impossibility, and, with a straight pointed needle, might even endanger the iris, I catmot refrain from expressing my dissent to the common method of passing a couching needle at once in front of the cataract. On the con- trary, it seems safer to direct the extremity of the instrument immediately over the opaque lens, and, in the first instance, to depress it a little downward, by means of the convex flat sur- face of the end of the needle, in order to make room for the safe conveyance of the instrument, Initwcen the cataract, and corpus ciliare, in front °f the diseased crystalline and its capsule ; tak- mg care, in this latter step of the operation, to keep the marked side of the handle forward, by which means the point of the needle will be in an opposite direction to the iris, and will come into contact with the diseased body, and the mem- brane binding it down in the fossula of the vi- treous humor. When this has beend one, and the case is a firm cataract, the instrument will be visible through the pupil; and now we are to push its point transversely, as near as possible the margin of the lens, on the side next the in- ternal angle of the eye, taking strict care to keep it continually turned backward. The operator is then to incline the handle of the instrument to- wards himself, whereby its point will be directed through the capsule, into the substance of the opaque lens ; and, on making a movement of the needle, describing the segment of a circle, at the same instant inclining it downward and backward, he will lacerate the former, and convey it, in the generality of cases, with the latter, deeply into the vitreous humor. Beer, as I have explained, gives the preference to a spear-pointed straight needle, one flat sur- face of which, at the period of its first introduc- tion into the eye, is turned upwards ; the other, downwards ; one edge, directed towards the nasal, the other, towards the temporal canthus; and the point towards the centre of the eyeball. Beer prefers this mode of proceeding, in order to avoid moving the lens too soon out of its natural situa- tion, whereby the subsequent manoeuvres of de- pression or reclination, he thinks, would be ren- dered very uncertain and incomplete. He also recommends the surgeon to support his hand in some measure on the patient’s cheek, by means of the little finger, so as to have it in his power to check the too sudden and deep entrance of the instrument into the eye, liable to happen when the broadest part of the spear-point has passed through the sclerotica. (Lthre, 6fc. B. 2, p. 354.) It happened, unfortunately for the credit of the operation of depression, that Petit admonish- ed surgeons to beware of wounding the anterior layer of the crystalline capsule: he had an idea, that, when this caution was observed, the vi- treous humor would afterwards fill up the space, previously occupied by the lens, and that thus the refracting powers of the eye might become as strong as in the natural state, and the neces- sity for using spectacles be considerably ob- viated. But, we are now apprized, that leaving this very membrane, from which Petit antici- pated such great utility, even were it practica- ble' to leave it constantly uninjured in its na- tural situation, would be one of the worst incul- cations that could possibly be established; for, in many cases, where extraction proves fruitless, in some, where depression fails, the want of success is owing to a subsequent opacity of the crystal- line capsule; in short, blindness is reproduced by the secondary membranous cataract. It seems more than probable, that, in some of the in- stances, where the opaque lens has been said to have risen again, nothing more has happened, than the disease in question. Therefore, not- withstanding the whole capsule in the majority of cases may be depressed with the lens out ot the axis of vision, as it is not a constant occur- rence, I cannot too strongly enforce the pro- priety of extirpating, as, it were, every source and