WOUNDS. 1215 blood, or matter lies, as mentiored bv Sabatier, is formed by the same process, which circumscribes the matter of abscesses. (See Suppuration.) It is, in short, the adhesive inflammation. All the surfaces in contact with each other, and surround- ing the extravasation, and track of the wound, generally soon become so intimately connected together by the adhesive inflammation, that the place, in which the extravasation is lodged, is a cavity entirely destitute of all communication with the cavity of the peritoneum. The track of the wound leads to the seat of the effused fluid, but lias no distinct opening into the general cavity of the abdomen. The rapidity, with which the above adhesions frequently form, is almost incredible. It should be known, however, that extravasa- tions are occasionally diffused in various degrees among the viscera, owing to the patient being subjected to a great deal of motion, or affected with violent spasmodic contractions of the intes- tines Urine and bile are also generally dis- persed to a great extent. As for blood, its dis- position to coagulate must often tend both to stop further hemorrhage, and confine the extravasa- tion in one mass. Symptoms and Treatment of Extravasations in the Abdomen. 1. Blood.—Worn ds of the spleen, and of very large veins and arteries, in the abdomen, almost always soon prove fatal from interna! hemorrhage. The blood generally makes its way downwards, and accumulates at the infe- rior part of the abdomen, unless the presence of adhesions happen to oppose the descent of the fluid to the most depending situation Thebellv swells, and a fluctuation is perceptible. The patient grows palp, loses his strength, is affected with syncope, and his pulse becomes weak and scarcely distinguishable. In short, the symptoms, usually attendant on profuse hemorrhage, are observable. AiS the viscera and vessels in the abdomen are compressed on all sides, by the surrounding parts, the blood cannot he effused, without overcoming a certain degree of resistance; and unless a vessel of the first magnitude, like the aorta, the vena cava, or one of their principal branches, has been wounded, the blood escapes from the vessel slow- ly, and several days elapse, before any consider- able quantity accumulates. In these cases, the symptoms, which, perhaps, had disappeared, under the employment of bleed- ing and anodyne medicines, now recur. A soft, fluctuating tumor may be felt at the lower part cf the abdomen ; sometimes on the right side; sometimes on the? left; but, occasionally, on both sides The pressure, made by the effused blood on the urinary bladder, excites distressing incli- nations to make water ; while the pressure, which the sigmoid flexure cf the colon suffers, is the tauso of obstinate constipation. In the mean time, as the quantity of extravnsated blood in- creases. the peritoneum inflames. The pulse grows weaker; debility ensues ; the countenance becomes moistened with cold perspirations; and, according to some writers, unless the surgeon practise an incision for the discharge of the fluid, the patient falls a victim to the accident In the year 1733, Vacher adopted this treat- ment with success Petit afterwards tried the same plan, though it did not answer, (as is alleg- ed,) in consequence of the inflammation having anvnncpd, too far, before the operation was per- formed. Long before the time of Vacher and Petit, a successful instance of similar practice was recorded by Cabrole in a work, which this au- thor published under the title of AA$a/Jr,T9v uv - ts.Kixf!• id est, Anatomes elenehus accuraiissimus, omnes humani corporis partes ea qua solent secari methodo, delineans. Access ere osteologia, ob- servationesque Medicis at; Chirurgicis perutiles. Geneva; 1604. The method, pursued by Vacher, was therefore not so new as Petit imagined. Indeed, when the symptoms leave no doubt of there being a large quantity of blood extravasated in the abdomen ; when the patient’s complaints are of a very serious nature, and are evidently owing to the irritation and pressure of the blood on the surrounding viscera ; and when a local swelling denotes the seat of the extravasation, there cannot be two opinions about the propriety of making an incision for its evacuation. Surgeons should recollect, however, that, if no opening be made, a small extravasation of blood may not produce any considerable irrita- tion. Oil the contrary, when the cyst including the blood, is opened, the air then has access, and that part of the fluid, which cannot be discharged, putrefies and becomes so irrita- ting, as to be a true cause of inflammation. The bad symptoms are also sometimes chiefly owing to the injury done to parts within the abdomen, and still more commonly to inflam- mation within that cavity, arising rather from the wound, than from the presence of effused blood. On the whole, I am disposed to join a late writer in the belief, that the practice of discharging ex- travnsated blood from the abdomen can rarely be advisable.— (See Ilenncii’s Mil. Surgery, P. 4 i 2, ed. 2.) 2. Chyle and Feres —These are not so •easily extravasated in the abdomen as blood, because they do not require so much resistance, on the outside of the stomach and intestines, to make tlu-m continue their natural route through the alimentary canal, as blood requires to keep it in the vessels. However, when the wound is large, and the bowel distended at the moment of the in- jury, or when, as Mr. Trovers has explained, air is extravasated, or blood effused in the abdomen, which fluids are incapable of making effectual re- sistance to the escape of the intestinal matter, the latter may he effused. (See av Inquiry into the. Process of Nature in repairing Injuries of the Intestines, <§r. p. 26.) Nothing is a bet- ter proof of the difficulty, with which chyle and feces are extravasated, than the operation of an emetic, when the stomach is wounded and full of aliment. In this instance, if the resistance to the extravasation of the contents of the stomach were not considerable, they would be effused in the abdomen, instead of being vomited up. A pecu- liarity in wounds of the stomach and intestines is, that the opening, which allows their contents to escape, may also allow them to return into the wounded viscus Extravasation of intestinal matter in the abdo- men is attended with severe febrile symptoms ; considerable pain and swelling of the belly; con- vulsive startings; and hiccough and vomiting, with which the patients are generally attacked the day after the receipt of the wound (Sabatier, Med. OpCratoire, T. 1, p. 34.) In these cnscs, only general means can be etn-