OPERATION. 262 C7ESAREAN linea alba is preferred, I believe, by the majority of practitioners. That the method is not al- ways attended with the formidable objections, urged against it by Sabatier, is quite certain : the case, lately published by Dr. Chisholm, is a de- cisive proof of this assertion. (See Edinb. Med. and Surgical Jouw. Vol. 4, p. 178, 179.) There is a third method of performing the ab- dominal Caesarean Operation. It consists in ma- king a transverse incision, five inches in length, through the parietes of the abdomen, between the rectus muscle and the spine, and in a situation more or less high, according to the more or less elevated position of the uterus. This plan was recommended by Lauverjat, in a publication en- titled, “ Ntmvclle Mdlhode de Pratiquer l’Opera- tion. Cesnrienne, Paris, 8vo. 1788.” Lauverjat acknowledges, that the method had been success- fully practised by different persons before himself, and, especially, in one instance, which was parti- cularly remarkable, as, in consequence of the first incision having been made too high up, it became necessary to make a second one, which extended obliquely from the other. However, according to Sabatier, Lauverjat has as much merit, as if he had invented the plan, since he has given a bet- ter explanation of its advantages, than any of his predecessors. The side, on which the operation is to be done, is in itself a matter of indifference. But, if the liver or spleen were to project, one ought to avoid it. Also, if the uterus were.to incline more towards one side, than the other, it would be proper to operate on that side, where this vis- cus could be most conveniently exposed. The pa- tient being put in a proper position, and held by assistants, and her abdomen kept steady by an attendant, who must apply the palms of his hands to the sides of the uterus, the integuments, mus- cles, and peritoneum are to be divided, with the usual precautions. The uterus is then to be opened, and the wound in it enlarged in the re- quisite degree, by means of a probe-pointed bis- toury^. Should the placenta present itself, care must be taken not to injure it, for fear of open- ing one of the arteries of this mass, which com- municate with the umbilical arteries of the child, or of leaving a portion of it in the uterus ; but, it should be separated, in order to facilitate break- ing the membranes at its circumference. The child is next to be extracted. This part of the operation is subject to no general rule. Delivery being accomplished, we are recommended to in- troduce through the vagina anodyne injections, in order to lessen spasm, and wash out the coa- gula. This method is preferable to that of clear- ing out the uterus with the hand. Sabatier most properly condemns the plan, formerly advised by Rousset and Ruleau, of passing up the neck of this viscus a catheter for the purpose of washing out the lochia, as well as the absurd proposal of employing a seton to promote their escape. Should the lochia not pass readily outward, we arc recommended to introduce the finger occa- sionally into the cervix uteri, so as to free it from the coagula, which may obstruct it. Sabatier observes, that nearly all authors, who have spoken of the Caesarean Operation, whether performed at the sides of the abdomen, or in the linea alba, have advised keeping the edges of the wound in the skin, muscles, and peritoneum to- gether, by means of the interrupted, or twisted suture, care being taken to place at the lower part of the incision a tent, in order to prevent adhesion, and leave a free issue for whatever dis- charge may take place from the abdomen. Others have been content with recommending tiie use of adhesive plaisters and the uniting bandage. Sabatier condemns sutures as painful and irri- tating, and he states, that the other means only act upon the skin, without fulfilling the object in view, because the integuments have no fixed point, and the divided muscles tend to contract. He assures us, that, in the last mode of operating, the edges of the wound may be brought into con- tact by merely laying the patient upon her side. Besides, he remarks, that there are not many muscular fibres cut, those of the transversalis being only separated from each other. He affirms, that this manner of operating also favours the approximation of the edges of the wround in the uterus, in consequence of this organ contracting most extensively^ in the perpendicular direction. It is likewise asserted, that, as the uterus has only been opened at its upper part, it affords in its middle and lower portions a large cavity, which does not communicate with the abdomen, and in which the iochia may easily accumulate, and after- wards be discharged by the natural way. The only dressings, advised by Sabatier, are a large pledget, compresses, and a moderately tight ban- dage round the bod}'. These are to be changed, when soiled with the matter or discharge. In this country', practitioners would not neglect to bring the edges of the wound, as much as pos- sible together, by means of strips of adhesive plaster; for, though they may'not act with so much effect in this situation as many others, they' undoubtedly' assist in promoting the main aim of the surgeon, which is to heal at least all the up- per part of the incision, if possible, by' the first intention. I have no doubt, there are many, who would be advocates for sutures. In this countiy, the last method of operating has also been tried. Mr. Wood, of Manchester, performed the Cae- sarean Operation, in a case, in which parturition was prevented by' deformity' of the pelvis. The) incision was made nearly in a transverse direc- tion, on the left side of the abdomen, about five inches in length, beginning at the umbilicus. This part was fixed upon, because the nates of the child could be felt there, and it was evi- dent, that no intestine was interposed betwixt the abdominal parietes and the uterus. There was scarcely any' effusion of blood, either from the external wound, or from that of the uterus, though the latter was made directly' upon the placenta. Instead of dividing the placenta, Mr. Wood introduced his hand betwixt it and the ute- rus, and, laying hold of one of the child’s knees, extracted the foetus with ease. His hand readily passed betwixt the placenta and uterus; this pro- duced a hemorrhage, but, not in any' considerable degree ; for, the whole quantity of blood lost did not exceed seven, or eight ounces. After the uterus was emptied, the intestines and omentum protruded at the wound. These having been re- duced, the integuments were brought into con- tact with sutures and adhesive plaster. 1:js operation, however, did not save the womans life; she died on the fourth day after its perloini-