th pleasure this mixture ast be promoted bv bleeding, it' necessary, d blisters, under the circumstances which have cn specified. (See Mem. dc Chir. Militaire, I, p. ‘271 ) In the same work, several cases ■ detailed, which were benefited by such treat- ■rit. Although some practitioners have thought i they have seen good effects result from sk; yet the majority of practitioners, who ve made trial of both this and camphor, in cases .tetanus, have found no reason to recommend .•se medicines. Possibly this may be owing, in ne instances, to sufficient doses not having ;n exhibited, or to the musk not being of a id quality. One hundred and fifty grains of sk, however, have been given in the space of t ] :lve hours, to a young girl, thirteen years old, acted with an incipient tetanus; but no sa- ary effect on the disorder was produced. We learn also from Sir James Macgrigor, that ner, camphor, musk, and other anti-spasmo- s, as likewise the alkalies, were tried by our •iitarv surgeons in Spain, and found unsuccess- . (Medtco-Chir. Trans. VoL 6, p. 458.) From the same authority we find, that digi- ts, in large doses, was tried in several cases in ■ peninsula; and that it, with several other dicines enumerated, failed in almost every e of acute tetanus which occurred. (P. 45-1.) one case recorded, the jaw remained fixed to last, and the patient was never entirely free ;t:n spasms. (P. 458.) I am not acquainted i any cases in which belladonna has been ,en ; but it is certainly a remedy well worthy rial. * tnalogy has also led to the employment of warm bath, as a plan which seemed to pro- e great benefit, by producing a relaxation of contracted muscles. Put, notwithstanding means has appeared, in a few instances, to asion some little relief, particularly when the ■titioner has been content with mere foment- ns, it generally fails, and often has even done chief. This may perhaps be, in some mea- i, ascribable to the disturbance and motion ch the patient must necessarily undergo, in ?r to get into the bath ; for it is very well wn, that every exertion on the part of the ent is very apt to excite most violent paro- ms of spasm. The author of the article anus, in the Encyclopedic Melhodique, men- s his having seen the warm bath do harm, vo or three cases in which it was expected to jood. Though numerous writers have re- mended the trial of the plan, it would be cult to trace, in their accounts, any facts :h decidedly show that its adoption has ever i followed by unequivocal benefit. The warm was tried in Spain, and found to produce momentary relief. (Medico- Chir. Trans. ■ 6, p. 457.) Dr. Hillary, who practised a while in the warm climate of America. re tetanus is very common, disapproves of method of treatment. He observes, that TETANUS. 1029 the action of which been in it more than twenty minutes, the tem- perature of the water being likewise not higher than 29 or 30 of Reaumur's thermometer. (Sde Hillary on the Air and Diseases of Barbadoes.) De Haen also relates a similar fact of a pa- tient dying the instant he was taken out of the warm bath. It was, in all probability, the bad effects and inefncacy of the warm bath, which induced prac- titioners to try what might be effected by the cold one. The advantages of the cold bath were first explained by Dr. Cochrane, in the Edinb. Medical Commentaries; and the plan has sub- sequently received the praises of Dr. Wright, the eminent Dr. Currie of Liverpool, and others. Of all the remedies, which have been employed in cases of tetanus, the cold bath seems to be that which has been attended with the greatest success. Dr. Wiight has published, in the Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. 6, a paper, in which may be found a narrative of the first trials of this method, which were all successful. The plan is said to be at present preferred throughout the West Indies. The way adopted con.-ists in plunging the patient in cold water, and in that of the sea, when at hand, in preference to any other, or else in throwing from a certain height several pails of cold water over Ins body. After this has been done, he is to be very carefully dried with a towel, and put to bed, where he should only be lightly covered with clothes, and take twenty or thirty drops of laudanum. The symptoms usually seem to give way, in a certain degree, but the relief which the patient experiences is not of long duration, and it is necessary to repeat the same measures at the end of three or four hours. They are to be repeated in this manner ; that is to say, at such intervals, until those of freedom from the attacks of the disorder increase in length. This de- sirable event generally soon follows, and ends in a perfect cure. Wine and bark were some- times conjoined with the foregoing means, and seemed to co-operate in the production of the good effects. Dr. Wright concludes the ac- count with the following remark, sent to him with a case, by Mr. Drummond, of Jamaica : — “ I am of opinion, that opiates and the cold bath will answer every intention in the tetanus and such like diseases; for whilst the opium diminishes the irritability, and gives a truce from the violent symptoms, the cold bath produces that wonder- ful tonic effect,'so .observable in this and some other cases. Perhaps the bark, joined with these, would render the cure more certain. May we not then have failed in many cases, by using opiates alone in large doses, or, what probably is worse, with the warm bath, instead of the cold bath ? And have we not reason to suspect that the increased doses of opium, that seemed requisite when the warm bath was used, may have proved pernicious?’’ ( Vol. 6, p. 1G1.) Our army surgeons, who were in Spain, are said to have found the cold bath worse than use- less (Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 25-1) ; )Ugh the use of the warm bath may appear and here I beg to remark particularly, that the i*» a: i v • « r i i t P i • . . je very rational, and promise to be useful, has always found it much less serviceable emollient and anti-spasmodic fomentations; he also mentions, that he has sometimes seen nts die the very moment when they came -'f the bath, notwithstanding thev had not plan seems to present no hope ol benefit in cases of tetanus from wounds, however strong the evidence is of its utility in other examples of the disease. This was the opinion of Dr. Cullen, and it is adopted by Calliscn, who observes: “ Immersio subita iterata totitis corporis in