OPHTHALMY. S7S r happen without a loss of substance. Thus rt, or the whole, of the cornea may be en- i y destroyed, as in injuries caused by quick- and, frequently, adhesions between the and eyelids, or between the two latter parts, ,ot be prevented by any kind of skill. {Beer.) I se serious degrees of mischief, as the same or observes, are mostly occasioned by slaked I .nslaked lime, concentrated mineral acids, &c. Unslaked lime, especially when I nsivelv diffused over the eye by the im- I iate application of water, not unfrequently I luces a sudden destruction of the whole of ,' cornea, which is changed into a greyish, .oy substance, capable of being removed from j subjacent iris with a cainel-hair pencil. Such .nnihilation of texture, however, is generally j ricted to particular points, or the surface of j cornea. Wherever this membrane has been 1 nueh decomposed, that a manifest depression j irectly perceptible in it, when inspected side- ! ’s, a snow-white shining speck must be ex- ted to be the consequence. Slaked lime •er operates upon the cornea with so much ience, usually causing (as Beer states) only a terficial corrosion, or a coagulation oi the 1 jph between the layers of the cornea. Nor mineral acids, even when concentrated, ge- I ally so destructive to the cornea, as quick- j e; first, because, as fluids, they do not long a rain in contact with the eye; and secondly, | ause the immediate mixture of the tears with } m weakens their operation; whereas it only | reuses that of unslaked lime. The local I itment here consists in carefully removing } tv particle of the hurtful substance, afterwards ! >pping frequently into the eye lukewarm mu- i rginous decoctions or collyria, or covering the j ured place with a mild cerate, and excluding j e air and light from the eye. Every endea- j ur must also be made to prevent the formation 1 adhesions between the injured surfaces. I In very severe burns of the eyeball, of course, idea of restoring its functions is out of the | estion. The violence of the injury is the cater, the more numerous the vesicles are on the conjunctiva, and the more the eyeball d the iris are incapable of motion. Here the j ly indication is to moderate the inflammation, I d avert such additional mischief, as might I aerwise be produced by it. With this view, ! e eye should be kept at rest, and excluded from j e light and air. According to Beer, the most j mmon injuries of the eye, partaking both of a | echanical and chemical nature, are those L used by mortar, or the accidental touching the e with hot curling irons. When the mortar ■ntains no particles of quicklime, it often occa- ">ns, at particular points of the cornea, very hite specks, which Beer describes as being imposed of coagulnted lymph, and admitting of spcrsion. He even declares, that when the hole of the cornea is in this state, its transpa- mcy may be restored by proper treatment, as ts been frequently exemplified to the gentlemen tending his clinical lectures. (B. p. 234.) he pricking of the eyeball with a red-hot ecdle, and the Stinging of it by bees, wasps, and t icr insects, are also both chemical and me- hanical injuries. Whether the sting be left in he skin of the eyelid, or in the conjunctiva, or not, a considerable inflammatory swelling imme- diately takes place ; and, if the sting be lodged, and not now taken away, the inflammation spreads, and the eye itself is endangered. In two cases, where the stings of bees were left in the skin of the upper eyelid, Beer has known gangrene arise in the short space of a day and a half, and the patients were saved with great difficulty. The treatment of such cases consists in immediately extracting the sting, if lodged, and applying folds of linen over the eye, wet with cold water. After noticing the destructive effects of burn- ing substances, the explosion of gunpowder, and fulminating silver, on the eye (cases in which, when the functions of the organ are annihi- lated, the only indication is to diminish the sub- sequent inflammation and its consequences). Beer inquires, what is the reason why the slight- est mechanical, or chemical, injuries of the eye, in an apparently healthy subject, are sometimes followed by an immoderate degree of inflamma- tion, and even the loss of the organ from sup- puration? It is, says he, an observation made by Schmidt, that there are some eyes, which the greatest bunglers may abuse for hours at a time, without being spoiled, their powerful or- ganization defying all such unskilful disturbance; while other eyes are met with, which the most skilful operators can hardly touch, without in- ducing a destructive degree of inflammation and suppuration. It was to this peculiar idiosyn- crasy that Schmidt applied the term vulnerabi- lity (Vcrwundbarkcit.) Patients of this ha- bit are said to possess an exceedingly fine soft skin, with a reddish polish upon it, and their cheeks are not only red, but exhibit a network of very minute vessels, which seem as if injected. Such individuals appear as if they were in the bloom of health; and, says Beer, in some re- spects they are really so. When their spirits are raised by the slightest causes, their com- plexion is universally reddened; but the least fear turns them as pale as a corpse. Their skin is described as being uncommonly irritable, sen- sible of every impression, and attacked with an erysipelatous redness, whenever any fatty sub- stance touches it. In such habits, the utmost caution is necessary whenever the eyes have been injured, and the prognosis should be re- served. And, when an operation is to be done on their eyes, Beer recommends the previous exhibition of opium, and the application of a blister to some part of the skin, at a considerable distance from them. As a prophylactic measure, he also directs regular friction of the surface of the body. In severe ophthalmies, particularly those which affect the eyeball itself, all mental emotitms, anger, joy, &c. should be avoided. Hence, no talkative nor quarrelsome persons shotdd be suf- fered to remain with the patient; and noisy children ought fo be kept away from him. The apartment should be ventilated at least once a day, without the patient being exposed to any current of wind. All touching of the eye, or rubbing it with the bed-clothes during sleep, must be strictly prohibited. Stimulating, spicy food, spirituous drinks, and great bodily exercise are likewise to be forbidden. In the list of things which have a hurtful effect, Beer also includes