'CATARACT. 311 difference'is, that Mr. Ware’s knife is less spear- pointed; in consequence of which, when this latter instrument has pierced through the cor- nea, its lower, or cutting edge will sooner pass helow the inferior margin of the pupil, than the knife used by Wenzel. On this account, Mr. Ware believed, that the iris would be less likely to be entangled under the knife, which he re- commended, than under Wenzel’s, when the in- strument begins to cut its way downwards, and the aqueous humor is discharged. Mr. Ware particularly advises great care to be taken to let the knife increase gradually in thickness from the point to the handle; by which means, if it be conducted steadily through the cornea, it will be next to an impossibility, that any part of the aqueous humor can escape, before the section is begun downwards; and, consequently, during this time, the cornea will preserve its due con- vexity. But, if the blade should not increase in thickness from the point; or if it be incurvated much in its back, or edge, the aqueous humor will unavoidably escape, before the puncture is completed; and the iris, being brought under the edge of the knife, will be in great danger of being wounded by it. But, a better knife, than any other which has yet been proposed, is that employed by Beer, a representation of which I have given in Vol. 1, of the First Lines of Sur- gery, plate 7, fig. 3. The sentiments of Richter, Scarpa, Beer, and others, about the position of the patient in the operation and the mode of fix- ing the eye, have been already noticed in a fore- going section. Baron Wenzel, determined to run no risk of bad consequences from undue pressure on the eye, made no endeavour to fix this organ at all at the period of cutting the cornea. The late Mr. Ware did not approve of this plan of leaving the eye unfixed. The danger likely to arise from undue pressure, he observes, can only take place, after the instrument has made an opening into the eye: but, the pressure, which Mr. Ware advises, in order to fix the eye, is to be removed the instant the knife is carried through the cornea, and before any attempt is made to divide this tunic downwards. To understand this subject better, however, the reader should know, that Mr. Ware divided the incision of the cornea into two distinct processes; the first of which may be called punctuation, and the second section. So long, says Mr. Ware, as the knife fills up the aperture, in which it is inserted, that is, until it has passed through both sides of the cornea, and its extremity has advanced some way beyond this tunic, the aqueous humor cannot be discharged, and pressure may be continued with safety. The punctuation of the cornea being completed, the purpose of pressure is fully answered; and, if such pressure bo continued, when the section of the cornea begins, instead of being useful, it will ac hurtful. To avoid all bad effects, Mr. Ware recommends the cornea to be cut in the follow- ng way. „ operator is to place the fore and middle anger of the left hand, on the tunica conjunc- lva, just below, and a little on the inside of the ornea. At the same time, the assistant, who •Mpporta the head, is to apply one, or, if the eye projects sufficiently, two of his fingers, upon the onjunetiva, a little on the inside and above the n cornea. The fingers of the operator and assist- ant, thus opposed to each other, will fix the eye, and prevenf-the. lids from closing. The point of the knife is to cnlgr the outside of the cornea, a little aboVe its transverse diameter, and just before its connexion with the sclerotica. Thus intro- duced, it is to be pushed .on slowly, but steadily, without the least intermission, and in a straight direction, with its blade parallel to the iris, so as to pierce the cornea towards the inner angle of the eye, on the side, opposite to that, which it first entered, and till about one-third part of it is seen to emerge beyond the inner margin of the cornea. When the knife has reached so far, the punctuation is completed. The broad part of the blade is now between the cornea and the iris, and its cutting edge below the pupil, which of course is out of all danger of being wounded. As every degree of pressure must now be taken off the eye- ball, the fingers, both of the operator and his assistant, are instantly to be removed from this part, and shifted to the eyelids. These are to be kept asunder by gently pressing them against the edges of the orbit; and the eye is to be left en- tirely to the guidance of the knife, by which, says Mr. Ware, it maybe raised, depressed, or drawn to either side, as may be found necessary. The aqueous humor being now partly, if not entirely evacuated, and the cornea of course rendered flac- cid, the edge of the blade is to be pressed slowly downward, till it has cut its way out, and sepa- rated a little more, than half the cornea from the sclerotica, following the semicircular direction, marked out by the attachment of the one to the other/ (TFare.) As soon as the point of the knife had arrived opposite the pupil, Wenzel used to incline it gently backward, and thus puncture the capsule of the crystalline. But, Mr. Ware very properly objects to this method of opening the capsule with the instrument used for cutting the cornea, and at the same time. The plan may exhibit dexterity; but, is of no use, and is often at- tended with considerable danger of wounding the iris. In the eyes of some persons, the iris is con- vex, and it is almost impossible to complete the section of the cornea, without entangling the iris under the edge of the knife, unless a particular artifice be adopted. Wenzel, in this circum- stance, recommends gently rubbing the cornea downward with the finger; one of the most im- portant directions, according to Mr. Ware, in the Baron’s whole book. Wenzel imputed several advantages to the oblique manner, in which he used to divide the cornea. The best modern oculists, however, do not imitate this method. If the edge of the knife should incline too much forward, and its direction be not altered, the in- cision in the cornea will be too small, and ter- minate almost opposite the pupil. In this case, there will be great difficulty in extracting the cataract, and the cicatrix afterwards will often obstruct sight. If, on the contrary, the edge ol the instrument be inclined too much backward, and its direction be not changed, the incision will approach too near the part where the iris and sclerotica unite, and, there will be great' danger of wounding them. These accidents may be pre- vented by gently rolling the instrument between