AD. 570 HE nil fractures, viz. the union of the divided parts.” (Pott.) I could relate numerous examples to the point, if it were any longer necessary, in the present state of surgical knowledge, to cite facts, in proof of the important truth, that the mere undepressed fissure, or fracture of the skull itself, cannot be the source of the immediate bad symptoms, but that, in these cases, the whole of the sudden peril arises, from the manner, in which the brain and its membranes have been hurt by the same violence, which caused the injury of the bone. Professor Thomson had opportunities of witness- ing in the Netherlands several instances, which can leave no doubt upon this subject. “In some of the wounds (says he) in which the head had been struck obliquely by the sabre, portions of the cranium had been removed, without the brain appearing to have sustained much injury. In one case of this kind, where a considerable portion of the upper part of the occipital bone, along with the dura mater, had been removed, a tendency to protrusion of the brain took place during an at- tack of inflammation; a slight degree of stupor with loss of memory occurred; but on the in- flammatory state having been subdued, the brain sunk to its former level, the stupor went ofij and the memory returned:”—and in another re- markable sabre cut, more than an inch in breadth of the left lobe of the cerebellum was exposed, and was seen pulsating for a period of eight weeks, yet the injury was unaccompanied with any particular constitutional symptoms. (See Observations made in the Military Hospitals of Belgium, p. 50, 51.) In many cases of simple undepressed fractures of the cranium, it is true, that trephining is ne- cessary : but, the reasons for the operation, in these instances, are, first, the immediate relief of present symptoms arising from the pressure of extravasated fluid; and, secondly, the discharge of matter, formed between the skull andjlura mater, in consequence of inflammation. The operation of trephining was also recommended by Pott, as a preventive of ill consequences; a practice, however, which is now never adopted'by the most eminent surgeons; and many writers of the highest reputation, especially Desault, Dcase, Mr. John Bell, and Mr., Abernethy, urgently and properly remonstrate against the method. The latter remarks: “ In the accounts, which we have of the former practice in France, it is related, that surgeons made numerous perfora- tions along the whole track of a fracture of the cranium; and, as far as I am able to judge, without any clear design. Mr. Pott also advises such an operation, with a view to prevent the in- flammation and suppuration of the dura mater, which he so much apprehended. But, many cases have occurred of late, where, even in frac- tures with depression, the patients have done well without an operation. Mr Abernethy next relates several cases of fracture of the cranium with depression, which terminated favourably, although no operation was performed. This judicious surgeon flunks, that these cases, as well as a great many others on record, prove, that at all events a slight degree of pressure may not derange the functions ot the brain, for a limited time after its application, and in this circumstance probably never; lot all those patients, whom he had an opportunity of know- ing for any length of time after the accident, continued as well as if nothing of the kind had happened to them. In Mr. Hill’s cases in sur- gery, two instances of this sort are related, and Mr. Hill knew both the patients for many years afterwards; yet, no inconvenience arose. Indeed, it is not easy to conceive, that the pressure, which caused no ill effects at a time, when the contents of the cranium filled its cavity com- pletely, should afterwards prove injurious, when they have adapted themselves to its altered size and shape. Severe illness, it is true, often inter- venes between the receipt of the injury, and the time of its recovery; and many surgeons might be inclined to attribute this to pressure; but, it equally occurs when the depressed portion is elevated. If a surgeon, prepossessed with the opinion, that elevation of the bone is necessary in every instance of depressed cranium, should have acted upon this opinion in several of the cases, which Mr. Abernethy has related, and afterwards have employed proper evacuations, his patients would probably have had no bad symptoms, and he w-ould naturally have at- tributed their well-doing to the mod. of treat- ment, which he had pursued: yet, these cases did equally well without an operation. (See ufbernethy’s Surgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 4, dec. 8vo. Loud. 1811.) Depressed fractures of the skull not being our immediate consideration, we'need not expatiate upon them; but, it seemed right to make the preceding remarks, in order to shew how un- necessary it must be to trephine a patient, merely because there is a fracture in the cranium, and with a view of preventing bad consequences. Even when the fracture is depressed, it is not necessary, unless there are evident signs, that the degree of pressure, thus produced on the brain, is the cause of existing bad symptoms. The inflammation and suppuration of the parts, beneath the skull, which Mr. Pott wished so much to prevent by trephining early, do not arise from the occurrence of a breach in the cranium, but, are the consequences of the same violence, which was the occasion of the fracture. Hence, it is obvious, that removing a portion of the bone cannot in the least prevent the inflamma- tion and suppuration, which must result from the external violence which was first applied to the head; but, on the contrary, such a removal being an additional violence, must have a tendency to increase the inevitable inflammatory mischief. From what has been said, it is not to be in- ferred, however, that trephining is never proper, when there is a simple undepressed fracture of the skull. Such injury may be joined with an extravasation of blood on the dura mater ; or, it may be followed by the formation of matter be- tween this membrane and the cranium ; in both which circumstances, the operation is essential to the preservation of the patient, immediately, but not before the symptoms indicative of the ex- istence of dangerous pressure on the brain, begin to shew themselves. (See Trephine.) A fracture of the skull, unattended with ur- gent symptoms, and not brought into the sur- geon’s view by any accidental wound of the inte- guments, often remains for ever undiscovered; and as no benefit could arise from laying it bare