1031 THROAT. •y acute case, the plan was tried by Mr. rle, but it only aflorded a temporary alleviation the spasms, and, as it caused severe agitation, was discontinued. According to Sir James lcgrigor, tobacco clysters, tried in the ad- iced stage of the disease, seemed to have no . ct. He considers, however, the tobacco fume leserviug further trial. ,\ remarkable case is recorded by Dr. Phil- , in which the jaw suddenly fell upon the ibition of an enema with oil of turpentine. >e Mcdico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 65.) . Vccording to Baron Larrev, frictions, with • liniments, as recommended by some authors, e tried by the French surgeons at Cairo ; but y produced no change in the state of the dis- cs. We learn, from the same authority, that application of blisters to the throat also failed checking the symptoms. The Barbadoes tar, mentioned by Cullen, .tricity, the colchicum autumnale, or meadow Von, recommended by Dufresnoy, and several er means formerly in repute for their virtues cases of tetanus, have now been fully proved experience to possess little or no claim to this racter. . Consult Hippocrates de Morbis Popularibus, • 5 ct 7. Ccelius Anrclianus de Morbis tis. Medical Observations and Inquiries, ■ l. I, p. 1 and 87 ; Vol. 6, p. 143. Hillary i the Air and Diseases of Barbadoes, Edit, .ysical and Literary Essays, Vol. 3. Dr. r ter, in Medical Trans. Dr. Cochrane in '■ in. Medical Commentaries. Cullen's First "■'cs of the Practice of Physic, Vol, 3. ■ sh's Observations on the Cause and Cure of f anus, in Vol. 2 of the Transactions of the lerican Philosophical Society. Sir Gilbert '.tie's Observations on the Diseases of Seamen, c it. 3. M. Ward, Facts establishing the \ lean/ of the Opiate Friction in Spasmodic l Febrile Diseases, Syc. 8vo. Manchester, ' '9- Larrey, Memoircs de Chir. Milituirc, 1, p. 235, <Jc.; T. 3, p. 236, <Jc. Callisen, dema Chirurgice Hodiernce, Pars 1, p. >, Sfc. Sir James Macgrlgor, in Med. ir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 449, <jc. Dr. Phil- Case in the same work and volume, p. 65. . Dickson s Observations on Tetanus, and . Macarihnr's Letter in Vol. 7, p. 448, of the same book. Trnka de Krzowitz, de da no Commentarius, Vindob. 1777. Riche- d, Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 333, S[C. Edit. 1 Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. 1, r<7 ,■ Vol. 2, p. 255—430,- Vol, 4, p. 45, 8{c. Boyer, Traite, dcs Mai. Chir. T. I, 335, §c. Paris, 1814. Rees's Cyclopccdia, ■ Tetanus. C. II. Parry, Cases of Tetanus, 1 Rabies Contagiosa, <£c. 8vo. Loud. 1814. > in Morrison, a Treatise on Tetanus, 8vo. scry, 1816. Robert Reid, on the Nature l Treatment of Tetanus and Hydrophobia, '• Dublin, 1817. Stewart, in Med. Chir. irn.; Oil of Turpentine tried. Sir Astley yper, Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 190. rmestcr, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11. THORAX, WOUNDS OF. See Wounds the Thorax. THROAT, WOUNDS OF. Injuries of 5 kind are often attended with considerable iger, on account of the great number of im- portant parts, which are interested; but, mere cuts of the integuments of the throat and neck are not (generally speaking) dangerous cases, and do not materially differ from common in- cised wounds of the skin in any other part of the body-. They are not liable to be followed by any particular consequences, and require the same kind of treatment as cuts in general. (See Wounds—Incised Wounds.) In wounds of the throat and neck, however,- the larynx and trachea, pharynx and oesophagus, the trunk of the carotid artery, and all the prin- cipal branches of the external carotid, the large jugular vein, the eighth pair of nerves, and the recurrent nerve, are all exposed to injury ; some much more so than others, but all of them being occasionally reached by the edge of the knife, or razor, or the point of the sword, or other in- struments. It would be absurdity to offer an account of what is to be done in cases, attended with some part of the mischief above pointed out; for no patient, thus wounded, would ever be found alive. Wounds of the eighth pair of nerves are generally considered fatal, though some doubts begin to be entertained on the point. Indeed, Klein positively states, that such an injury is not fatal. (See Journ. der Chir. B. 1, p. 123, 8vo. Berlin, 1820.) However, if such a wound is not absolutely fatal, there can be no doubt of its being highly perilous, and that it should be most cautiously avoided. These nerves, as is well known, proceed down the neck, in the same sheath of cellular substance, which includes the carotid artery, and lie on the outside of this ves- sel, between it and the internal jugular vein. Wounds, either of the carotid artery, or in- ternal jugular vein, must generally prove imme- diately fatal, in consequence of the great and sudden loss of blood. However, were any sur- geon on the spot at the moment, he should in- stantly secure the wounded vessel. In tying the carotid, one caution is highly necessary, viz. always to be sure that the par vagum is excluded from the ligature: for were this nerve to be tied, the mistake, if not absolutely mortal, would leave but a slight pbssibility of recovery. If the mouth of the vessel could not be at once secured, pressure should be instantly resorted to, for the purpose of producing a temporary sup- pression of the hemorrhage. The surgeon should then either make the necessary enlarge- ment of the wound in the integuments, with a due and constant recollection of the important parts near the place, or else, in the case of the carotid being injured, he should cut down to this vessel in the manner explained in the article Aneurism. In lacerated wounds, the carotid artery may be injured, and yet the patient not immediately bleed to death ; for it is the nature of all wounds, attended with much laceration and contusion, not to bleed so freely as clean cuts. Mr. Abernethy has related a case, in which the carotid, and all the chief branches of it, were wounded in a man who was gored in the neck with a cow’s horn ; yet death did hot directly follow', and there was time to have recourse to the ligature. Baron Larrey even reports one or two cases, in which the bleeding from the carotid, injured by a gun- shot, was permanently stopped by pressure.