LITHOTOMY. 792 licctum, 4to. Paris, 1817 ; N. Barhmtini Ohs. relative a l'extraction d'un calcul urinairc ties volumineux, opcrec an moycn de la faille vesico- rectale, 8vo. Lncqucs, 1819; Journ. Complcm. du Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. G, p. 79, 8vo. Paris, 1820 ; Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 28, P• 422, £c. LITHOTOMY IN WOMEN. Women suffer much less from the stone than men, and far less frequently stand in need of li- thotomy. It is not, however, that their urine will not so readily produce the concretions, which are termed urinary calculi. The reason is alto- gether owing to the shortness, largeness, and very dilatable nature of the female urethra; cir- cumstances, which in general render the expul- sion of the stone with the urine almost a matter of certainty. The records of surgery present us with numerous instances, where calculi of vast size have been spontaneously voided through the meatus urinarius, either suddenly without pain, or after more or less time and suffering. Heister mentions several well authenticated ex- amples. Middleton has also related a case, where a stone, weighing four ounces, was ex- pelled in a fit of coughing, after lodging in the passage a week. Colot speaks of another in- stance, where a stone, about as large as a goose’s egg, after lying in the meatus urinarius seven or eight days, and causing a retention of urine, was voided in a paroxysm of pain. A remarkable case is related by Dr. Moli- neux in the early part of the Philosophical Transactions: a woman voided a stone, the circumference of which measured the longest way seven inches and six tenths, and round about, where it was thickest, five inches and three-quarters; its weight near two ounces and a half troy. And Dr. Yelloly has related an interesting example, in which a ea'culus, weigh- ing three ounces, three and a half drachms troy, and lodged in the meatus urinarius, was easily taken out with the fingers. (See Med. Cliir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 577.) Dr. Yelloly also re- fers to several very remarkable instances, de- scribed in the Phil. Trans. Vols. 12, 15, 17, 20, 31, 42, and 55, proving what large stones will pass out of the female urethra, either spon- taneously, or with the aid of dilatation and ma- nual assistance. Were any doubts now left of this fact, they would be immediately removed by other histories, especially those contained in a paper drawn up by Sir A. Cooper. (See Med. Cliir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 427, <§v.) Sometimes, after the passage of large calculi, the patient has been afflicted with an inconti- m nee of urine; but, in general, this grievance lists only a short time. 'i he occasional spontaneous discharge of very large calculi through the meatus urinarius led F e ’eric de Leauson to deliver the advice not to interfere with them, as he thought they would all present themselves sooner or later at the ori- fice of that passage, and admit of being taken awav with the fingers. (See Traite Nouveau pour aisement parvenir a la Vraic Cn ration de plusievrs Idles Operations, (§vx Geneve. 16‘74.) When surgeons began to consider what very large calculi were sometimes spontaneously voided, and the large size, and dilatable nature of the female urethra, they suspected that it would be a good practice to dilate this passage by mechanical contrivances, until it would allow the stone to be extracted, and thus ail occasion for cutting instruments might be superseded. With this view, Tolet first proposed suddenly dilating the passage with two steel instruments, called a male and female conductor, between which the fingers, or forceps, were passed for the removal of the calculus. (Traite de la Lilho- tomic, Paris, 1(181.) But as it was afterwaids rightly judged, that the dilatation would produce less suffering and injury, if more gradually effected, Douglas suggested the practice of dilating the meatus urinarius with sponge, or dried gentian root. Mr. Broinfield has published the case of a young girl, in whom he effected the necessary di- latation by introducing into the meatus urinarius the appendicula coeci of a small animal in a col- lapsed state, and then filling it with water, by means of a syringe ; thus furnishing a hint for the construction of instruments on the principle of Mr. Arnott’s dilator. The piece of gut, thus distended, was drawn out, in proportion as the cervix vesica; opened, and, in a few hours, the dilatation was so far accomplished, that the cal- culus had room to pass out. (See Chir. Ohs. and Cases, Vol. 2, p. '216.) Mr. Thomas met with a case, in which, after dilating the meatus urinarius with a sponge tent, he succeeded in extracting an earpicker which lay across the neck of the bladder. The passage was so much enlarged, that the left fore-finger was most easily introduced, and (says this gentle- man) “ I believe had the case required it, both thumb and finger would have passed into the bladder, without the smallest difficulty.” After adverting to this, and other facts, proving the ease, with which the female urethra can be dilated, Mr. Thomas remarks: “ If these re- lations can be credited, and there is no reason why they should not, I can hardly conceive any case, in a young and healthy female subject, and where the bladder is free from disease, where a very large stone may not be extracted, with- out the use of any other instrument than the forceps, the urethra having first been sufficiently dilated by means of the sponge tents. For this purpose, the blades of the forceps need not be so thick and strong, ns those commonly employed. (See Mcdico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 1, p. 123— 129.) Many facts of a similar kind are on re- cord, and one, in which a large needle-case was extracted, is referred to in a modern periodical work. (See Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Med. Vol. 2, p. 331.) 'Some surgeons have extracted stones from the female bladder in the following manner: the pa- tient having been placed in the position com- monly adopted in the lateral operation, a straight staff, with a blunt end, is introduced into the bladder, through the meatus urinarius. The sur- geon then pusses along the groove of the instru- ment the beak of a blunt gorget, which instru- ment becoming wider towards the handle, effects a part of the necessary dilatation. '1 he staff being withdrawn, and the handle of the gorget taken hold of with the left hand, the right fore- finger with the nailturntd dosvnwaid:, is now in-