CALCULI. 110O URINARY However, Magendie himself is’not so partial to his theory, as not to confess, that it is liable to objections; for, says he, individuals are met with every day, who from their age, manner of living, and habits, appear to be subjected to every condition, calculated to produce the gravel, and yet they remain free from it. Hence, he infers, that there must be some unknown causes, which sometimes keep the uric acid dissolved, even where its quantity in the urine is copious. On the other hand, he admits, that certain per- sons are met with, whose regimen and mode of life ought to exempt them from gravel, and still they are afflicted. In proof of this fact, he ad- verts to the poor inhabitants of a district in Sus- sex, mentioned by Dr. Scudamore, (On the Na- ture and Cure of Gout, Qc. 8vo. Lond. 1817,) who live almost entirely on vegetable matter and hard beer, and many of whom are much troubled with gravel. Magendie might also have recol- lected, that some birds, which live entirely on vegetable matter, as several singing birds kept in cages, void a good deal of the lithate of am- monia. Magendie refers to examples of gravel being always produced in certain individuals after any unusual exertion, and in other apparently healthy subjects, after any difficulty of digestion, llatulence, the eating of salad, raw fruit, &c. With regard to the dyspepsia, frequently attend- ant on calculous disorders, and other chronic diseases, Magendie sets down the complaints of the stomach and of the urinary organs, as pro- bably only two effects of the same cause, and riot mutually productive of each other. (See Recherchcs, tjc. sur les Causes, S^c. dc la Gra- velle, 8 vo. Paris, 1818.) It should be observed, that Magendie’s ob- servations are meant to apply only to cases of "ravel, and where the substance voided is lithic acid. And, as for other instances, in which the calculous matter is formed of phosphate of lime, oxalate of lime, cystic oxide, &c. he deems the causes entirely unknown. One thing is certain, that Magendie’s theory will not account for the origin of calculi, unless a predisposition to the disease from other unknown or conjectured causes, be taken as a matter of fact. Indeed, this admission he makes himself; and he enu- merates various circumstances conducive to gra- vel, besides a diet of food abounding in azote ; as advanced age; a sedentary life; and hard study; long retention of the urine in the blad- der; strong wines and liquors. In fact, without the predisposition, arising from unknown causes, and particular periods of life, a meat diet will not render the occurrence of calculi frequent, as is exemplified in sailors, who eat a great deal of salt beef and pork. And, on the contrary, that the eating of little, or no animal food will not al- ways prevent the formation of calculi, when there is tendency to it from time of life, diathesis, or other causes, is sufficiently proved by the fre- quency of the disease in infants, in whose food, there is a much smaller proportion of meat and azotic substances, than in the usual diet of an adult. With respect to amorphous sediments, the cir- cumstances, which Dr. Prout has observed to n litliin nf’i (1 diathesis in persons, subject unnatural exercise, either bodily, or mental, par- ticularly after eating, and the want of proper ex- ercise at all other times. 3. Debilitating cir- cumstances. (On Gravel, Calculus, <<jr. p. 113.) An unusually heavy meal, especially of animal food, or bread, he says, is invariably followed by a deposition of the lithate of ammo- nia from the urine. Heavy, unfermented bread, and compact, hard boiled, fat dumplings, or pud- dings, he finds, particularly apt to produce such an effect. Crystallized sediments, or gravel, consisting of nearly pure lithic acid, Dr. Prout ascribes to a free acid being sometimes generated in the kidneys, and, combining with the ammonia, with which the lithic acid is previously united, so as to precipitate the latter in a pure crystallized slate. According to the investigations of Dr. Prout, the precipitating acid is not constantly the same, though generally the phosphoric, and sometimes the sulphuric. (P. 127, 128.) The same intelligent writer represents the circumstances, which promote the formation of urinary sediments in general, as being either natural, or acquired. “ With respect to those of the first description, (says he) it cannot I think be doubted, that certain individuals are much more liable to these sediments, than others. This tendency is not infrequently inherited: thus, I know a family, where the grandfather and father have actually lithic calculi in the bladder ; and where the grandson, a youth of twelve, or thirteen years of age, has a very strong tendency to the same disease; his urine depositing fre- quently very large quantities of lithic acid, both in the form of amorphous and crystalline sedi- ments. On the other hand, the disposition to generate these sediments in excess, is, like gout, or rather simultaneously with gout, but too frequently acquired by indolent habits, and excess in eating and drinking. Most frequently, however, the tendency to these diseases is con- nected with some unknown causes, peculiar to certain districts, or countries,” as, for example, the district, of which Norwich may be considered the centre; in which more calculous cases occur, than in the whole of Ireland, or Scotland. In such instances, the water, diet, temperature, &c. of the district, has been each accused, in its turn, of being the exciting cause; but, (says Dr, Prout) the circumstance, I believe, still remains unexplained. I have in one or two instances seen a fit of lithic gravel induced in the predis- posed by sitting on a damp cold seat for some hours. Sometimes also a tendency to lithic calculus is evidently connected with local injury, or disease of the kidney.” (P. 133.) The difficulty of tracing the causes of the for- mation of calculi is rather increased, than facili- tated, by the fact, that, except when the urinary organs are much diseased, the patient may ap- pear to be in perfect health. Indeed, persons of the strongest constitutions are often troubled with the stone, quite independently of the en- trance of any foreign body, as a nucleus, into the bladder; and it is now universally admitted, that lithic acid itself constitutes by far the most common nucleus, even when other calculous matter is deposited round it. (See Prout on