76 AMPUTATION. nt St. Bartholomew’s at the very beginning of my apprenticeship. Mr. Veiteh, however^ seems to merit the honor oi having been perhaps the first to set the example of tying every vessel, the femoral, as u elt as the smaller arteries, with a single silk thread, taking care to include, as far as was possible, nothing but the artery; and when this had been done, he took off one half of each ligature, as near as possible to the knot, “ so that the foreign matter introduced was a mere trifle, compared with what I had been accustomed to see.” (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Juurn. Vat. 2, p. 178.) The use of a single silk thread was then the part of these improvements, probably originating with Mr. Veiteh. though the principles, which led to this innovation, were unquestionably first established by Dr. Jones. Mr. Alanson directs the ends of the ligatures to be left hanging out at the two extremities of the wound, according as their nearness may point out as best. But when a ligature is situated in the centre of the wound, it is best to bring it out between the strips of adhesive plaster, at the nearest part of the surface ; otherwise its run- ning across one half the wound to get at either angle, would create a great deal of unnecessary irritation and suppuration. The advantages of this method of placing the ends of the ligatures were well explained by Mr. Veiteh, but, his practice, like the innovation of cutting off the half of each ligature, has been common in the London hospitals, and at St. Bartholomew’s in particular, many years earlier, I presume, than the case referred to by this gentleman, since it has been familiarly adopted in tho-e institutions ever since 1797, as I can testify from my own personal observation. These remarks are offered; without the slightest intention of detracting from the merits of the above-mentioned paper, which is replete with valuable advice; nor am I influ- enced by any design of throwing honor on the memory or character of any other individual at the expense of Mr. Veiteh, being at this time un- acquainted with the exact periods, when either this improvement, or that of removing the half of each ligature commenced. M. Roux is one of the few remaining modern surgeons, who declare their preference to the method of bringing out all the ligatures at the lower angle of the wound, the benefit of having them brought out thus down, so as to keep up a drain for any pus that may form, being in his opinion greater, than that of arranging them at the points of the wound nearest to them. (Mem. sur la Reunion de la Vluie apres l’ Amp. p. 12.) As Dr. Ilennen observes, the reducing the immoderate size of ligatures, the separating the threads of which they were composed, and placing them at convenient points along the face of the stump, or wound; and the actual removal of one half of each ligature, were amendments very slowly made; but, (says he,) “ an improvement, which appears to me of great consequence, was the last of introduction, and is now the slowest of. adoption, although the artery once secured, and the value of adhesion duly acknowledged, it is the most obvious of all. 1 allude to the plan of removing the ends of the ligature altogether, and thus leaving to an extensive wound the greatest possible chance of immediate union. I he first printed mention of this practice, as far as Dr.- Hennen's investigations have discovered, was ini a letter written by Mr. Ilaire, dated Southmins-i ter, Essex, Nov. 178G. “The ligatures,” says this | gentleman, ,l sometimes became troublesome and : retarded the cure. An intimate friend of mine, a j surgeon of great abilities, proposed to cut the ends j of them off close to the knot, and thus leave them j to themselves. By Jolluwing this plan, we have j seen stumps healed in the course of ten days. 1 Tne short ligature thus lft in, commonly made its j •way out by a sntull opening in a short lime, with- | out any trouble, or the patient being sens ble. of j pain." (See Land. Med. Journ. Fid. 7.) Cer- i tainly, considering the thickness of the ligatures \ in use at the above period, this testimony of the success of the method, as Dr. Hennen remarks, is very satisfactory. (Principles of Military Sur- ; gery, p. 181, Ed. 2.) In a letter received by me from Mr. Dunn, surgeon at Scarborough, and dated June 3, 1819, lie tells me *• My pre- decessor Mr. J. Wilson, tiie late partner of Mr. Travis, amputated a limb in 1792, or 93, and cut off the ligatures close to the arteries, and no trouble ensued. He did this from the recom- mendation of Dr. Balcombe, of York, who had seen the method practised on the continent.” In September, 1813, Dr. Hennen, who was serving with the army in Spain, began the adop- tion of this plan, which, he expected, would not only prove useful in promoting immediate union, but in obviating any accidental violence to the li- gatures, and the wrong interference of the younger dressers in trying to pull them away. Between September and January, thirty-four cases were treated in this way, without any inconvenience following, or the small particles of silk left behind giving rise to any apparent, irritation. Dr. Hennen also presented to Sir J. M'Grigor, some of the small circles of silk, a part of winch had come away with the dressings, while others had floated out on opening the little pustules, which formed over the face of the stump at the points, where the arteries had been tied. Some few of the ligatures never made their appearance, and the patients complained of no uneasiness whatever. Convinced of the utility of the method, Dr. Hennen afterwards published an account of it. (See Land. Med. Reposih ry, Vo I. 3, p. 177, and Vol. 5, p. 221.) This gentleman subse- quently found that Dr. Maxwell of Dumfries had adopted the plan as far back as 1798; and Dr. Ferguson, who was at Stockholm during the peace of Amiens, saw it also then followed by some of the surgeons of that city, without an)' ill effects. (Hennen's Military Surgery, p. 17.•>,- 178, Ed. 2.) In July, 1814, Mr. Lawrence communicated to the Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, some cases and observations highly in favor of the practice ; and the par- ticularity, which he lays much stress upon, is using for the purpose minute firm ligatures com- posed of what is called dentist’s silk. (See Med . Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 156.) And, in a paper of later date, he says, his further experience had confirmed the usefulness of the method, “that this plan, by diminishing irritation and inflam- mation, and simplifying the process of dressing, very materially promotes the comfort of the patient, and the convenience of the surgeon, while it has not produced ill. consequences, or