MERCURY. 804 way, it was next to impossible to regulate the quan- tity of mercury used, which varied according to the greater, or lesser activity of the lire, the posi- tion of the patient, and other circumstances. The effect of the vapour on the organs of respiration also frequently proved very oppressive; and mercury, applied in the way of fumigation, more frequently occasioned tremblings, palsies, &c. than in any other manner. In Mr. Aberuethv's mode, however, fumigation is, under certain cir- cumstances, not only an eligible, but, the very best, way of affecting the constitution. Frictions with ointment have always been re- garded us the most efficacious. They have un- dergone considerable change, and by being ren- dered more simple, have been greatly perfected. All the warm aromatic substances have been re- trenched from the ointment, not only as useless, but as irritating and inflaming to the skin. In modern times, the proportion of mercury to the fat has also been very much increased. GENERAL REMARKS ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF MERCURY, ITS OCCASIONAL CONSEQUENCES, &C. With regard to the preparations of the medi- cine, and the modes of applying it, we are to consider two tilings ; first, the preparation and mode attended with the least trouble, or incon- venience, to the patient ; and secondly, the pre- paration, and mode of administering it, that most readily conveys the ne cessary quantity into the constitution. Mercury is carried into the constitution in the same way as other substances, either by being absorbed from the surface of the body, or that of the alimentary canal. It can- not, however, in all cases, be taken into the constitution in both ways ; for, sometimes the absoibents of the skin will not readily receive it, at least, no effect is produced, either on the dis- ease, or constitution, from this mode of applica- tion. In this circumstance, mercury must he given by the mouth, although the plan may be very improper in other respects, and often incon- venient. On the other hand, the internal ab- sorbents sometimes will not take tip the medi- cine, or, at least, no effect is produced on the disease, or the constitution. In such cases, all the different preparations of the medicine should he tried; for sometimes one succeeds, when another will not. In some cases,- mercury seems to have no effect, either applied outwardly, or taken into the stomach. Many sur- faces seem to absorb mercury better than others: such are probably all internal surfaces and sores. Thirty grains of calomel, rubbed in on the skin, have not more effect, than three, or four, taken by the mouth. Dressing small ulcers with red precipitate sometimes causes a salivation. (See Hunter on the Venereal Disease, p. 835, 336.) Besides the practicableness of getting the me- dicine into the constitution in cither way, it is proper to consider the easiest for the patient, eacli mode having its convenience and incon- venience, depending on the nature of the parts, to which it is applied, or on certain situations of life at the time. Hence, it should be given in the way, most suitable to such circumstances. In many, the bowels ran hardly bear mercury at all, and it should then be given in the mildest form possible, conjoined with such medicines, as will lessen, or correct its violent local effects, although not its specific ones on the constitution. When mercury can be thrown into the con- stitution with propriety bv the external method, it is preferable to the internal plan, because the skin is not nearly so essential to life as the stomach, and, therefore, is capable in itself of bearing much more than tie stomach. The constitution is also less injured. Many courses of mercury would kill the patient, if the medi- cine wore only given internally, because it proves hurtful to the stomach and intestines, when given in any form, or joined with the greatest cor- rectors. Every one, however, has not oppor- tunities of rubbing in mercury, and is therefore obliged, if possible, to take it by the mouth.— (Hunter, p. 338.) Mercury has two effects; one as a stimulus on the constitution arid particular parts; the other ns a specific against a diseased action of the whole body, or of parts. The latter action can only be computed by the disease disappearing. In giving mercury in the venereal disease, the first attention should be to the quantity, and its visible effects in a given time, which, when brought to a proper pitch, are only to be kept up, and the decline of the disease to be watched ; for by this we judge of the invisible, or specific effects of the medicine, and know what variation in the quantity may be necessary. The visible effects of mercury affect, either the whole con- stitution, or some parts capable of secretion. In the first, it produces universal irritability, making it more susceptible of all impressions. It quickens the pulse, increases its hardness, and occasions a kind of temporary fever. In some constitutions, it operates like a poison; while, in others, it produces a kind of hectic fever, that is, a small quick pulse, loss of appetite, restlessness, want of sleep, and a sallow complexion, with a number of.consequent symptoms ; hut, such ef- fects commonly diminish, on the patient becoming a little accustomed to the medicine. Mercury often produces pains like those of rheumatism, and nodes of a scrophulous nature. (Hunter, p. 339, 340.) The quantity of mercury to be thrown into the constitution, for the cure of any venereal complaint, must be proportioned to the violence of the disease. However, we are to be guided by two circumstances, namely, the time, in which any given quantity is to be thrown in, and the effects it has on some parts of the body, as the salivary glands, skin, or intestines. For, mer- cury may be thrown into the same constitution in very different quantities, so as to produce the same ultimate effect; but, the two very different quantities must also be in different times; for instance, one ounce of mercurial ointment, used in two days, will have more effect upon the con- titution, than two ounces used in ten. The effects of one ounce, used in two days, on the constitution and diseased parts, are considerable. A small quantity, used quickly, will have equal effects, to those of a large one employed slowly; but, if these effects are principally local, that is, upon the glands of the mouth, the constitution at large not being equally stimulated, the effect upon the diseased parts must be less, which may be known by the local disease not giving way in