8 10 NECROSIS. The separation also cannot be made by the pulsation of the small atteries, nor by the weak expansive motion of the vessels of the bone. Weidmann knows not what motives haveinduceil certain writers to impute the effect to suppura- tion, and observes, that, as the doctrine is not founded upon reasoning, it is superfluous to offer any arguments against it. If the least attention be paid to what nature really tries and accomplishes in this operation, nothing will be more manifest, than that it is completed in a very different manner. Swelling first affects the periosteum and bone, which by degrees softens, ( Vid. Trojapassim. Bonn. Thesaur, Oss. Mar- ios, p. 122, and Weidmann dc Nccrosi Os- sium, Tab 4,'Fig. 1, and 3 ) At the margins of the necrosis, the bony surfaces, which were smooth, become rough, and irregular. A fissure is there produced, which extends in every direc- tion under the piece of bone, that is about to be detached. The bony texture is also daily rendered less solid, so that the number of adhe- sions between the dead and living parts diminish, and in the end are totally destroyed. Weidmann then explains, that the true mode by which the separation is effected consists in the absorption of the particles, situated betwixt the living and dead parts of the bone, in such a way, however, that the first loses a great deal of its substance; the last, scarcely any thing, (P. 25.) After the dead bone has come away, the swelling of the periosteum subsides, and the living bone recovers its original hardness and solidity ( Troja, p. 67.) For a further account of the process, by which dead portions of bone are separated from the living, see Exfoliation. When dead portions of bone are separated and loose, they still lodge in the cavities of the ul- cers, and, like all other extraneous bodies, occa- sion irritation of the soft parts, and keep up a discharge of matter. Sometimes, however, na- ture of herself succeeds in expelling them. This happens in cases, where the size and shape of the ulcer are calculated to facilitate the issue of the dead bone, which does not lie too deeply, and is propelled outward by its own weight. In necroses of trivial size, indeed, it is asserted, that the small fragments of bone may be dis- solved in the pus, and come away with it; (David; Bousselin, Hist, dc la Socicte Royalc dc Medccinc, Tom. 4, p. 308 ; Weidmann dc Nccrosi Ossinm, p. 26;) but, such an event can never be expected when the dead portion of bone is at all extensive. The last thing, which nature does, is to re- store the loss of substance which the bone has suffered. Although this operation is so extraordi- nary, and wonderful, that one might be disposed to doubt its'reality, numerous examples, recorded in the annals of surgery, prove not only its pos- sibility, but, also, its frequency. In works referred to at the conelusiop of this article, the following authors speak of the rege- neration of a part, or the whole of the lower jaw- bone : viz. Bonetus, Bayer, Guernery, Bel- main, Acre], Van Wy, Trioen, Bonn, Reiplein, Desault, Henkel, and Dussaussoir. A student showed Weidmann a lower jaw-bone, which had been thus regenerated, and taken from the body of a man, whom the latter distinguished writer L had been well acquainted with. The bone could | not be freely depressed; but, yet it performed i its functions tolerably well. Moreau saw a case, in which the clavicle was I regenerated, and the new bone was presented by I Dangerville, after the patient’s decease, to the | Academy of Surgery at Paris. (Dc Nccrosi l Ossinm Theses, Ferns. F. Chopurt, resp. P. G. Robert, Parisiis, 177C.) Chopart had an opportunity of witnessing the I death and reproduction of a scapula. Weidmann saw an instance, in which nearly the i whole cylindrical shaft of the humerus perished, I and was afterwards regenerated ; a phenomenon, 1 that had been observed at earlier periods by Job i of Mekren, Cajetano Taconi, E. Blancard, Du- 1 hamel, David, Acrel, Bcehmer, Cheseiden, and Vigaroux, whose respective works are cited at the end of this article. Morand, Cheseiden, and Bromfield published ij engravings, respecting a reproduction of the j upper part of the humerus, where the old dead bone was included in a sort of bony tube. Regenerations of the ulna have been observed by Ruysch, Duverney, and Fowles. (See Thc- saur, X. No. 176. Traite des Mat. des Os. I Paris, 1751 ; and Phil. Trans. No. 312.) A similar reproduction of the lower ends of the radius and ulna was witnessed by Acrel. (Chirurgischc Vorfdlle von Murray, Vol. 1, p. 194.) Similar reproductions of the thigh-bone are recorded by Wedel, Battus, Kosehius, Hofmann, Scultetus, Diemerbroeck, Wright, Fabricius Hil- danus, Raw, Dobyns, M‘Kenzie, Ludwig, David, i Rousselin, Larrey, Hutchison, &e. in publica- t tions specified at the conclusion of this subject. The following case of necrosis of the thigh- bone is related by Dr. M‘Kenzie. William Bax- ter, a boy thirteen years old, received a blow on his thigh at school, of which he at first hardly complained; but, in a few months, he began to have pain in the thigh, which inflamed, swelled, and appeared to have matter in it. The parents being poor, no surgeon was called, and the boy i was allowed to linger for a great while. At length the matter made its way through the skin, by a small opening, on the interior part of the thigh, about three inches above the knee, and a thin sanies continued to be discharged for eighteen, or twenty months. At length, the hole in the skin enlarged, and the point of a bone began to protrude, and give a good deal of pain, when the clothes rubbed against it. After suffering in i this manner for two years and a half, the boy, as he lay in bed one morning, felt the bone looser, j and projecting more than ordinary. He gave it a strong pull, and brought the piece away en- tirely, which proved to be seven inches and a half of the thigh-bone. A good deal of bleeding followed; hut, the wound soon healed, and he lias never since found the least inconvenience. Dr. M'Kenzie, hearing of this singular case, sent j for the boy, carefully examined his thigh, and found it ns firm as the other. The only differ- ence was, that it was somewhat thicker, arid a little more curved. The muscles retained their natural softness, and looseness on the bone. They detached piece of bone was a portion of its whole H