709 INFLAMMATION. ilt Si thkk 1 feei: c " Si'tS I «.u T“s 3 fti OT | ufat, l b* ■id i e are probably to understand, without produ- no- a very lasting or permanent loss of strength. Villi respect to mild laxative medicines, none re superior to manna, rhubarb, oleum ricini, rul the like; and of the saline purgatives, the ,-st are, the sulphate of soda, tartrite of potass, hospbate of soda, and sulphate of magnesia. : may here be remarked, that, besides the be- •fit, which the local inflammation derives from •e judicious administration of purgatives, the . ostiveness and heat, which usually attend the ,’inptomatic fever, are also removed by the same jeans. “ Purgatives (says Dr. Thomson) are more or ■ss required in almost every species of inflam- lation; but they are more peculiarly necessary l those, which are accompanied with a high egree of ^fever, or with derangement of the . igestive, or biliary organs. In cases of inflam- . lation, which have a tendency to spontaneous esolution, they are almost always the best, and ften the only remedies that are required.” Lectures on Inflammation, p. 171.) Considering the general approbation of the imployment of tnild saline purgatives in cases of nflarnmation, I confess, that I was not a little urprised to find merely the following short unfa- vourable notice taken of them by a celebrated oreign professor, in his account of the treatment tf inflammation. “ As for purgatives, they nust be used with discretion. There are none f them antiphlogistic, as has been pretended. They always produce more or less irritation, and :an only be applicable, when the cause of the nflarnmation is in the intestinal canal. In the jeginning of the complaint, we ought, therefore, n general to abstain from them, and confine s ourselves to emollient clysters.” (Boyer, Traiie des Maladies Chirurgicales, T. 1, p. 39.) Diaphoretic and nauseating Medicines. Medicines, which have the power of producing sickness, lessen, for a time, the action, and even the general powers of life. This is in conse- quence of every part of the body sympathizing with the stomach ; and the effect may be very quickly excited. Sickness lowers the pulse, makes the small vessels contract, and rather, dis- poses the skin to perspiration. But, nothing more than nausea should be caused ; for vomit- ing rather rouses, than depresses. (Hunter.) Nauseating medicines, employed after bleeding has been practised once or twice, are often pro- ductive of considerable benefit; but there are some affections, in which they cannot be used, such as inflammation of the stomach and in- testines. In all superficial inflammations, how- ever, they may be safely and advantageously exhibited, as well as in most inflammatory affections internally situated. In inflammation of the dura mater and brain, and, indeed, in every instance, in which there is an urgent reason for putting as sudden a check as possible to the continuance of the affection, the employment of nauseating doses of antimony is most strongly indicated. The tartrite of antimony (emetic tar- tar) is the medicine, on which practitioners place the greatest reliance, and it is to be prescribed for the purpose of exciting nausea, as follows: — iy • Antimonii tartarisati grana duo; Aquce distillatce uncias quatuor. Misce et cola. Do- sis, Uncia dimidia sexta quaque hora. The safest diaphoretics are citrate of potass, acetate of ammonia, and tartrite of antimony, and James’s powder. The two latter, from their effects in producing nausea, and weakening the pulse, are sometimes most efficacious, as already stated. “ The warm bath seems to act (as a modern writer says) not only by increasing the tendency to perspiration, but also by occasioning a deter- mination of blood to those parts of the body to which it is more immediately applied. It is in this way that bathing the feet seems to relieve inflammatory affections of the head and throat. I have not seen any experiments, nor am I ac- quainted with any, which have been made with a view to ascertain its use in the inflammations of the chest; but, in all inflammations of the belly, and of the viscera contained within that cavity, there are no other means of cure, blood-letting excepted, which afford such sudden and perma- nent relief as that which is obtained from hot fomentations and warm bathing.” (See Thom- son on Inflammation, p. 173.) Opium. The majority of surgeons entertain an insuperable objection to the administration of opiates in almost all cases of inflammation, and the aversion to this practice is for the most part deducible from the recollection of opium being a powerful stimulant. The plan, however, has its advocates. (B. Bell; Richter, ^-c.) One of its strongest partisans tells us, that opium parti- cularly lessens the disturbance of inflammation, and allays pain, which is at once a principal symptom of the process, and a cause of its aug- mentation, as well as that of the fever. Opium also quiets the inordinate action of the solids, the mental agitation and restlessness so power- fully, that it well deserves the name of the grand antiphlogistic remedy. It likewise occasions a moisture on the surface of the body, which ex- perience shews is eminently serviceable in all inflammations affecting the skin. When given with this view, it is usually conjoined with anti- mony, camphor, calomel, or ipecacuanha. The administration of opium is a general practice in all painful inflammations arising from external causes, and it is attended with perfect safety when evacuations from the lowcls and bleeding have been previously put in practice. Care must be taken to give it in sufficient doses; for small quantities not only fail in fulfilling theobject, but frequently produce quite an opposite effect. During its employment, the bowels should be kept open with glysters. The efficacy of opium chiefly manifests itself in the early stage of the affection; for, as soon as the inflammatory fever has extended itself to the whole system, it loses its beneficial virtues. Hence, in cases of exter- nal injuries, it is to be given the two first days, immediately after bleeding. It is to be given as soon after the accident as possible, in order to tranquillize the mental alarm, and, if convenient, towards the evening, for the sake of procuring a quiet night, (Richter.) Evacuations being premised, says the other advocate for this me- dicine, the next object of importance is to pro- cure ease and quietness to the patient, which, in cases of inflammation, are often of more real service, than any other circumstance whatever.