BKONCHOTOMY. '239 variable tenacity, and adhesions, this is, in almost cverv case, totally impracticable; and even could the whole membrane be removed, still the function of respiration would be but little improved, the ramifications of the trachea and bronchial cells remaining obstructed. (See Cheyni’s Pathology of ' the Larynx and Bronchia.) No doubt, Dr. Cheyne's statement of what is found in the dead subject is correct; and, vet, the operation maybe necessary to prevent suffocation, which might otherwise be induced partly bv the diminution of the natural passage for the air by disease, and partly by the action of the muscles of the glottis; a circumstance, to which Dr. Cheyne has not assigned sufficient importance. On this point, the sentiments of Mr. C. Bell are more correct: speaking of the membrane of croup, formed by the effusion of coagulable lymph, and of the cause of death in these eases, he says, “ It has not appeared to me, that it was the violence of the inflammation, which destroyed the patient, nor the irritation directly from the inflamed membrane; but that the presence of this secreted membrane, acting like a foreign body, at the same time occasions spasms in the glottis, obstructs the passage, and confines the mucus. But, I am bound to state, in the strongest terms, that death is ultimately a consequence of effusion in the lungs, occasioned by the continued struggle and difficulty; for. on opening the chest, I have uniformly found, that the lungs did not collapse, and that the bronchiae were full of mucus. This corresponds with the symptoms; for, before death, the violence of the cough and struggle has given place to coldness and insensibility, with a pale swelling of the face and neck, and n hen the child has f allen into this state, firing ' riedom in the trachea nill he of no avail.(Sure. tty’S p I (>.) In the cases of croup, which Mr. Chevalier has examined after death, lie lias found the trachea obstructed with mucus, and he thinks, hat it' is more by this secretion, than by that of coagulable lvmph, that suffocation is finally pro- duced. At all events, he succeeded in saving a ioy on the point of suffocation, by making an ncislon in the trachea, and letting out an ounce, ir an mince and a half of reddish, brown, frothy uncus. And a case, of a very similar description, .1 which the same practice answered, I attended, bunt two years ago, with Mr. Lawrence, and Jr. Biicke. This case, however, was different tom Mr. Chevalier’s in the circumstance of a ulw being required for a couple of days after the peratimi, when the removal of the instrument ■:s followed by no inconvenience. 1’elletnn joins several modern writers, in re- resenting bronchotomy, as generallv useless in ises of croup; the only example, iii which he miks the operation might be serviceable, is here the disease is confined to the larynx, a i*\ which he sets down ns uncommon, and dhcnlt to be distinguished. “ Kn supposant enjin a»gine ni ce covereiion him caract&rhie., mi se onvera encore entre la rrainte tie firaiiquer we >fration inutile, si les concretions sc prolmigent •*qiif lions les In ouches, i t Pimpossibility do jnger CCS cone I itivm smit bomies an larynx. C'est 1 r!<ri ilnns ce seal cos yue I'of.cration pent ctre lleu<e y clle facilittra la respiration pendant que la nature, aidue de Curt, traraillera a dis- suiidre, detacher, el fairc expect over les fansscs membranes qui. ohliievent, la glottc et le larynx.’' (■Clinique Clururgicale, 'Join. 1, p. 28.) Of course, the degree ol success, which will attend the practice of bronchotomy in cases of this nature, must always mainly depend upon the operation being done early enough, and in cases, where the lungs are not too seriously affected ; for, if the effects of pneumonia are fur advanced, the patient’s chance of recovery will be hopeless, whether the trachea be opened or not. In order, also, to have a reasonable chance of success, in cases, threatening suffocation, from inflammation of the parts about the fauces, as sometimes hap- pens, the operation must not be deferred too long. We see this fact exemplified in two cases recorded bv Flajani; in one, where the operation had not been allowed till a late period of the disease, the patient died; in the other, where the practice was adopted earlier, life was pre- served. (Cnltezione d’ Osservazioni, &jc. 7. 3, p. 230—233.) A few years ago, Dr. Baillie published three cases, in which death was produced in the adult, subject, and, in a very few days, by a violent in- flammation of the larynx and trachea. The disease had a strong resemblance to croup; but, yet was different from it. There was not the same kind of ringing sound of the voice as in croup, and no layer of coagulable lymph was formed upon the surface of the inner membrane of the larynx and trachea, which, according to Dr. Baillie, uniformly attends the latter disease. In one of these cases, the cavity of the glottis was found to be airnost obliterated, by the thicken- ing of the inner membrane of the larynx at that part. The inner membrane of the trachea was likewise inflamed; but, in a less degree. The lungs were sound. If, in thirty hours, no relief should be derived from bleeding ad deliquium, and the exhibition of opiates, Dr. Baillie con- ceives, that, in this sort of case, it might be ad- visable to perform the operation of brotichotdmv at the upper part of the trachea, just under the thyroid gland. This operation, he thinks, would probably enable the patient to breathe, till the inflammation in the larynx, more especially, at the aperture of the glottis, had time to subside. (Sec Jeans, of a fjocieiy fm the Improvement of' Med. amt Chi-. Knowledge, I ol. 3,p. 275, 28ff.) An acute affection of the membrane of the glottis, proceeding rapidly to a fatal termination by suffocation, has also been lately particularly described by Drs. Farre and Percival. (See Med. Cliir. Trims. I oh 3. and 4.) In some bodies, which Mr. Lawrence examined after death, he found appearances analogous to those, mentioned by the above physicians. “ The pa- tients died of suffocation : but the progress of the complaint was much slower, than in those eases; the symptoms were not acute, nor did the in- spection of the parts disclose any evidences off active inflammation. The membrane, covering the chorda? vocales, was thickened, so ns to close the glottis, and a similar thickening extended to a small distance from these parts, accompanied with an oedcmatotis effusion into tiic cellular sub- stance under the membrane. The epiglottis did not partake of the disorder. In one or two in-