URINARY CALCULI. 1099 cause of so few cases of stone having been met with amongst seafaring persons, than any of the references to the habits or mode of life of a ■ sailor, made by Mr. C. Hutchison in his in- genious paper. (See Tvfcd. Chir• 1 runs. Vol.f), 443, £c.) From this gentleman’s account it seems, that out of 86,000 patients, admitted into the Naval Hospital at Ilasiar, Plymouth, and Deal in the space of sixteen years, there has only been eight calculous cases, or one in 10,750 •. patients. Two of these cases were hoys, about fourteen years of age, “ who had laboured under symptoms of stone for some years pre- ■ vioiisly to their admission into the service, and . into which they had recently entered, expressly for the purpose of deriving benefit from our magnificent institutions; one was a marine who i had been at sea a few months only ; three were ..adult seamen, and the seventh a marine; but, their length of service afloat could not be at all ascertained: the eighth, and last case, was a warrant officer, advanced in years, who had been serving in ordinary, that is, in a ship in i harbour for a considerable time previously to .the operation.” Subsequently to the period, embraced by the returns, collected by Mr. C. Hutchison, a boy has also been operated upon in Haslar Hospital. (Vol, cit. p. 449.) Mr. ' R. Smith, of Bristol, has published an interest- : ing statistical inquiry into the frequency of stone iin the bladder in Great Britain and Ireland, t though strictly it is a comparative estimate of : the number of operations for stone in different ] parts of the kingdom in given spaces of time, and not of the number of calculous patients. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11.) As far as I can judge from the facts stated in Mr. Smith’s paper, and from what I know about the average number of operations for stone in London, not more than 180 can be fairly reckoned as the annual total in Great Britain and Ireland, which is about 1 for each 100,000 of the population, taken at 18 : millions. Now, if this fact be recollected, in computing the rarity of stone operations in the navy, and the other circumstances of there being few children and old men in that service, and of every man being examined by a surgeon, as to I the state of his health, before he is entered, I think, I the reason of the infrequency of stone in the navy I will be tolerably clear. However, as sailors live I; partly in very hot and partly in very cold climates, I even if they were of the ages most subject to cal- I culi, they may perhaps be rather less disposed to J the complaint, than individuals of the same periods I of life, constantly resident in England. In the I cold country of Sweden, urinary calculi are said to | be infrequent, (Riclicrand, Nosogr. Chir. T. ", | p. 528, Ed. 4.); and, as surgery is there highly I cultivated, the uncontradicted statement weighs 1 considerably in favour of tiie truth of the general | belief in the rarity of this disorder in very cold I countries. But, ns I have already said, the I number of inhabitants, to which any particular H evidence on this point relates, is an essential in- | quiry, before a safe inference can be drawn. It is perfectly well ascertained, that the greater I number of urinary calculi are composed chiefly I o.. lithic, or uric acid, which is naturally con- I tamed either in a free or combined state in the I urine of man, and all other animals, which con- I sume a great d°al of food, abounding in azote, as flesh of every kind, fish, shell fish, eggs, &c. Whenever the urine will redden the tincture of turnsol, Magendie infers, with the generality of chemists, that it contains lithic acid, the pro- portion of which, he says, varies, according to the quantity of substances .abounding in azote, taken as food. And, Magendie further observes, that when animals live altogether on flesh, their urine is full of uric acid, and even may be en- tirely composed of it, as is proved, with respect to birds, by the experiments both of Dr. Wollaston and Vauquelin. Here Magendie cannot mean free uric acid, but this acid in a state of com- bination ; for, as Dr. Prout has observed, there is no instance known, in which lithic, or uric acid is secreted in a pure state; birds, serpents, &c. always secrete it in combination with am- monia; in the gouty chalk-stone, it is secreted in combination with soda. (0» the Nature, c|-c. of Gravel and Calculus, p. 13.) On the contrary, if animals live on vegetables, as is the case with the herbivorous class, Magendie states, that there is no appearance of lithic acid in their urine. In a series of experiments, communicated by Magendie to the Academy of Sciences in 1816, this distinguished physiologist exemplified, that, if a carnivorous animal be^deprived of all nutriment, containing azote, and be fed with su- gar, gum, oil, and other substances considered to be nutritious, and having no azote in their composition, the urine, in three or four weeks, will contain no lithic acid. (See Mem. sur les Proprietes nutritives des Substances, qui ne contienncntpas d'azote. Paris, 1817.) A dog, allowed only sugar, and distilled water, soon began to grow lean, and died' apparently starved on the 32d day from the commencement of his diet. The inference, which Magendie draws from his experiments, and from some cases, which he has detailed, is, that the quantity of uric acid in the urine, and of course, the tendency to gravel and calculous disorders, depend very much upon the kind of food. However, he takes into consideration the relative proportion of the uric acid to the urine itself, because if this be also abundant, the liability to calculi is counter- acted. It would appear also from his observa- tions, that the urine not only becomes impreg- nated with a great proportion of uric acid in ani- mals, which eat a large quantity of flesh, but is also scanty; and that, on the other hand, a ve- getable diet always promotes the secretion of a large quantity of fluid from the kidneys, as well as checks the formation of the acid in question. Magendie is also disposed to believe, that the rarity of calculi in hot climates may be partly traced to the kind of food employed. In fact, it is well known, that, in a considerable part of Asia, many millions of the inhabitants never eat flesh. But, ’though this circumstance must be allowed to have full weight, with respect to the sects which religiously decline animal food, the influence of climate cannot be rejected, because calculi are rare in all hot countries, whether meat be freely eaten or not. At the same time, the tenor of this gentleman’s reasoning may he true, that, setting out of the question the influence of climate, a vegetable diet tends to prevent the formation of lithic acid calculi, while eating largo quantities of such food, as contains a great deal of azote, has the opposite effect.