2«)0 CATARACT. real lymph-cataract, which rightly deserves the epithet membranous, which is sometimes wrongly applied to the capsular cataract; for, says he, the lymph-catarac t altfiie consists of an adventitious membrane, formed by inflammation, ol a web of plastic lymph, which may be very thin, and semitransparent, while the lens and its capsule are nearly quite clear, though the patient may be almost or completely blind, when the effects of the inflammation have extended to the choroides and retina. - The spurious purulent cataract is much less frequent, than the lymph-cataract In neglected cases of hypopium (see this word,) wherethe pupil is already quite covered with pus, the greater part of the effused matter is sometimes absorbed, and the pupil can be seen again, but, immediately behind it, a quantity of coagulating lymph can be discerned as in the lymph cata- ract, sometimes even projecting partly into the anterior chamber, but blended with particles of purulent matter, so as to give it a light yel- lowish tinge, and a clustered appearance. The pupil is always diminished, adherent to the mor- bid substance, and angular ; the motionless iris projects towards the cornea; and not only the eye-sight, but even the perception of light are completely lost, or the latter at least much diminished. A rare variety of spurious cataract, described by Beer, is the blood-cataract. Either from some considerable injury of the eye, a large quantity of blood is extravasated in the cham- bers, and, slowly absorbed during the ophthalmy caused by the violence, a part of it, however, remaining in the posterior chamber in the form of small clots, encysted in the lymph, which was effused during the inflammation ; or else in the course of a more tedious and neglected case of hypopium, blood is effused in the chambers of the eye, and} not mixing with the pus, still con- tinues in the same form behind the pupil, after the matter has been absorbed. In the first ex- ample, tins cataract looks like a reddish web, interwoven with silvery streaks, or threads ; the pupil, though angular, is seldom contracted; the iris nearly, or quite motionless ; and, not only is the light clearly distinguished, but a partial degree of vision sometimes retained. On the contrary, in the second instance, the opacity behind the pupil is very dense, white, studded with reddish, or brownish points, or specks, having a clustered appearance, and fre- quently projecting through the pupil into the anterior chamber; while the pupil itself is very small, and angular, the iris quite incapable of motion, and generally either no perception of light remains, or only a very confined indeter- minate sensation of it. Beet says, that this cataract may easily be mistaken for lymph, and that its differences can only be made out with a good magnifying glass. The dendritic cataract of Schmidt, the arbor- escent cataract of Richter, or the choroid cataract; as Beer observes, is not one of the least frequent of the spurious cataracts, and is invariably the consequence of a violent concussion of the globe of the eye, with, or without a wound, whereby a portion of the tapetum of the uvea is loosened, and becomes placed upon the anterior layer of ance the arborescent form of the stone termed a dendritis. Immediately after such a concussion of the eye-ball, the patient complains of a serious diminution and confusion of vision. Whoever examines the eye only superficially, will certainly not discern the pieces of the tapetum lying upon the yet perfectly transparent capsule of the lens, for the most careful inspection will be necessary for the purpose, and sometimes the aid of a magnifying glass will be requisite. But, as the lens and its capsule are mostly at the same time loosened from their connexions, they likewise generally become deprived of their transparency, and, as soon as this has happened, the displaced portion of the tapetum can be readily seen. When inflammation ensues, the flakes of the tapetum become closely adherent to the front layer of the capsule of the lens, and even the pupillary edge of the uvea acquires the same kind of connexion, so that the perception of light is diminished. But, says Beer, when inflam- mation follows, the pupillary margin of the uvea remains free, the iris is perfectly moveable, the light clearly distinguishable, though the lens and its capsule be entirely opaque, and sometimes the flakes of the tapetum resembling the arborescent streaks of the dendritis alter in shape, size, and position, but never completely disappear, though they may not closely adhere to the capsule. (Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 303, 309.J Another classification of cataracts, which is of great importance to an operator, is that which is founded upon their consistence; for, as Beer remarks, this makes not only a great difference in the prognosis, but also in the choice of a method of operating. When lire opaque lens is either more indu- rated, than in the natural state, or retains a tole- rable degree of firmness, the case is termed, a Jinn, or hard cataract. When the substance of the lens seems to be converted into a whitish, or other kind of fluid, lodged in the capsule, the case is denominated a milhp, or fluid cataract. When the opaque lens is of a middling consistence, neither hard, nor fluid, but, about as consistent, as a thick jelly, or curds, the ease is named a soft, or caseous cataract. "When the anterior, or posterior, layer of the crystalline capsule be- comes opaque, after the lens itself has been re- moved from this little membranous sac, by a pre- vious operation, the affection is named a second- ary c ituract. The harder the cataract is, the thinner and smaller it becomes. In this case, the disease pre- sents either an ash-eoloured, a yellow, or a brownish appearance : According to Beer, its colour is very dark. The interspace, betwixt tbe cataract and pupil, is considerable. The patient distinctly discerns light from darkness, and when the pupil is dilated, can even plainly perceive large bright objects. In the dilated state of the pupil, a black circle surrounding the lens is very perceptible. The motions of the iris are free and prompt; and the anterior su face of the cata- ract appears flat, without any degree of con- vexity. (R'c/ucr’s AnfangSgr. dtr Hiindarzu.p. 177. 3 B. Beer, Vol. cir. p. 309.) Beer says, that it is only the genuine lenticu- lar cataract, which can be hard, and it is chiefly mot with in thin, elderly persons; hut, with re- the capsule, more or less resembling in its appear- sped to the opinion, that all cataracts in old per-