544 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. veral of our colleagues, and, especially, by M. Fereoc, surgeon of the ship le Itnmnppe.'' The following is said to be an extract from one of his letters. “ After the naval engagement on the first of June, I 794, a great number of amputations were done immediately after the receipt of the in- juries. Sixty of the patients, whose limbs had been thus cut off, were taken to the naval hospi- tal, at Brest, and put under the care of M. Du- ret. With the exception of two, who died of tetanus, all the rest were cured ; and there was one, who had had both his arms amputated. The surgeon of the Tem6ra re, which ship was cap- tured by the English, was desirous, in compliance with the advice of their medical men, to defer the operation, which many of the wounded stood in need of, till his arrival in port; but, he had the mortification to see them all die during the passage, &c.” Larrey next acquaints us, that, when he was sent to the army of Italy, in 1796", he had also the pain of seeing, in the hospitals, great numbers of the wounded fall victims to the confidence, which many of the surgeons of that army placed in the principles of M. Faure. General Bona- parte saw, that the nmbulancevnl.tinte was the only tiling, that, in the event of fresh hostilities, could prevent such accidents; and, in conse- quence of his orders, Larrey formed the three divisions d’ambulance which are described in his Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire. Since this period it has always been customary in the French armies, on the day of battle, to make every preparation for performing amputa- tions as speedily as possible. The mere sight of these (imbalances, (always attached to the ad- vanced guard,) says M. Larrey, encourages the soldiers, and inspires them with the greatest courage. On this occasion, the following anec- O / o dote is cited from Ambroise Pare. This famous surgeon having been urgently sent for by the duke de Guise besieged in Metz, to attend the wounded of his army, who were in want of assistance, Ambroise Pare was shewn to the frightened soldiers, at the breach. Upon this, they immediately filled the air with shouts of the most lively joy, and cried out: “ Nausne pouvons plus mourir, s’il arrive que nans saitans blesses, puisque Fare est parmi nous.” Their courage revived, and their confidence in this skilful surgeon, contributed to the preservation of a place, before which a formidable army was destroyed. Larrey desires us to interrogate the invalids, who have lost one, or two of their limbs, and nearly all will tell us, that they suffered amputa- tion a few minutes after the accident, or in the first four and twenty hours. “ If Faure now retains any partisans,’’ says Larrey, “ I recommend them to repair to the field of battle, the day after an action; they would then soon be convinced, that, without the prompt performance of amputation, great num- bers of soldiers must inevitably lose their lives. In Egypt, this truth was particularly mani- fested.” The following communication upon this point was made to Baron Larrey by M. Masclet, a French surgeon on duty at Alexandria. In the naval hospital of this port, I have seen eleven soldiers, or sailors, who were woumUld cd in the naval action ofl'Aboukir, and who haijj suffered amputation in the first four and twenty® hours. In five of these cases, the operation haill been done on the arm; in two, on the thigh jlp and, in three others, on the leg. All these merilj are recovering. In the army hospital, there havcM., been only three thigh-amputations, which we per-h formed seven or eight days after the battle, andj" these three patients died a few davs after thdlj operation, although the operation was done me-ifi thodically, and no grave symptoms prevailed aflpa the time of its performance. You see, sir, ex-!#, perience has, in this instance, quite confirmeiMn your principles.” In 1780, during the American war, we are*!1 informed by Larrey that the surgeons of them French army performed a great number of am-»|ii potations, according to the opinion then gene-.|j rally adopted in France, that the operation should® not be undertaken till after the subsidence of thetB first symptoms. Almost all the patients, thus® treated, died after the operation. On the con- j trary, the Americans, who had the boldness toil i amputate immediately (or in the first twenty-} four hours) upon many of their wounded coun-jl tryrnen, lost only a very few. Yet, M. Dubor, ; at that time surgeon to the Artois dragoons, and from whom Larrey has collected this fact, relates, that the situation of the hospital for the French wounded was, on many accounts, the most; i advantageous. (Dubor These Inaugurate, sen- ■ jj tenu 16 Sept. 1803, d Ecole de Slrashnrip.) Admitting that, by a concurrence of fortunate ; k circumstances, which are not always to be caku-i| lated upon, some patients escape the danger of the j B first symptoms, as Larrey remarks, this proves ; ii nothing in favour of doing the operation after-11 wards: it must be seen what nature will do I towards the event of the case. If, at the end of twenty, or thirty days, the . prognosis is as bad as it was previously, ampu-1 • tation cannot be avoided. Thus all the suffer- lj ings, which the patient has endured, have been undergone for nothing, and the operation will < now be attended with considerable risk, inasmuch ; as the patient may lie in a dangerously’ weakened < state. If nature revives at all, no doubt, the success |; of the operation becomes more probable; but, j « in this case, the surgeon, instead of having re- L course to amputation, should redouble his ef- ) forts to preserve the limb. l CASES DEMANDING AMPUTATION CONSECUTIVELY. ( : Upon this subject, Larrey gives us the an* { nexed information. First case. A spreading Mortification. It the disorder be owing to an internal and general a cause, it would then be rashness in the surgeon j. to amputate before nature had put limits to the | disease. Larrey’ describes this kind of gangrene, as being distinguished from that, which is named » traumatic, by the symptoms, which precede »ri‘ i accompany it. These symptoms are similar to those, which are observed in nervous ataxia, or . adynamia. Here the operation ought to be Je* ferred, and endeavours made to combat the ge- neral causes with regimen and internal medicine*- But, when the gangrene is traumatic, Larrey h