M011 830 agrees, therefore, with the generality of sur- geons, that it is in these instances advantageous to amputate the mortified portion of the limb, but not before the extension of the gangrene, lws ceased, and the mischief is bounded by an inflammatory line. (See Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 3, p. 65—72.) In the article amputation, notice has been taken of a sloughing, which commences in the loot, and extends up the leg, and sometimes fol- lows gunshot injuries of the thigh, which involve the femoral artery: this is a case particularly instanced by Mr. Guthrie, as requiring the very early performance of amputation. Sir Astley Cooper also refers to cases, in which the rule was successfully deviated from, of not ampu- tating, before limits are set to the spreading of mortification; the instances in question arose from injury of blood-vessels, and other local violence, in patients of a healthy constitution. In such cases, it is admitted by this very expe- rienced surgeon, that the practice should be dif- ferent from what is usually pursued in mortifi- cation from constitutional causes. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 186.) Fabricii Hildam Tract.. Methodicus de Gan- greena et Sphacclo. Qnesnai, Traite de la Gangrene, 12mo. Paris, 1749. Encyclopedic Metliodique, Partie Chirurgicale, Art. Gan- grene. Kirkland on Gangrene, and on the Present State of Medical Surgery. Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarzn. R. 1, Kap. 3. Various parts of Hunter on Inflammation, fyc. Sharp's Critical Enquiry into the present State of Surgery, Chap. 8. Riclierand, Arosograplne Chir. T. 1, p. 215, Sec. Edit. 4. Lassus, Pa- thologic Chir. T. 1, p. 30, flc. Edit. 1S09. Leveille, Nouvclle Doctrine Chir. T. 4, p. 321, S[c. Paris, 1S12. Lamp, Memoires de Chirurgie Militairc, T. 3, particularly the Mem. sur la Gangrene de Congelation, p. 60, and that sur la Gangrene Traumatique, p. 141. Callisen, Systema Chirurgice Hodiernce, Vol. 2, p. 374, Edit. 1800. Dr. J. Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 501, Edinb. 1813. O' Halloran on Gangrene and Sphacelus, 8vo. Dublin, 1765. Pott's Obs. on the Mor- tification of the Toes and Feet in his Chirurg. Works, Vol. 3. J. Kirkland, Thoughts on Amputation, <fc. with a short Essay on the Use of Opium in Modification, 8vo. London, 1780. J. Harrison, ■ The remarkable Effects of fixed Air in Mortifications of the Extremi- ties, 8vo. Loud. 1785. J. A. Murray, In Gangrcenam Scroti Obs. (Frank Del. Op. 10-) C. White, Observations on Gangrenes and Mortifications, accompanied, 8^c. with convul- sive spasms, 8vo. 1790. Pearson's Principles of Surgery, p. 114, Edit. 2. Lawrence in Mcdico-C'hir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 184, <£c. Del- pcch, Mcmoirc sur la Complication dcs Plaics ct des Ulcer es, connuc sur le Korn de Ponrri- turc d'HSpital; also, Precis E/emcntaire dcs Maladies Reputecs Chirnrgicalcs, T. l,p. 73, Sc. Paris, 1816. Royer, Trailers dcs Ma- ladies Chir. T. 1, ]>• 105, $r. Paris, 1814. John Bell's Principles of Surgery. Professor Himly's Abhandlung fiber der Brand der Wcichcn nndharten Thcilc, GUI. 1800. I or an Account of the dry gangrene, see particu- larly the Writings of Hildams, Tulpius, MOX Question Memoir es de la SocietL Roynle ,jj Medccinc, Tom. I. Opere di Bertrandi ; M\l dical Museum, Sfc. For a description of tlf mortification causal by eating cockspur-ryr, s,i Dodard's letter in .Journal dcs Savails, 167(j Noel, in Mem. de I Acad, dcs Sciences, 171(9 Langius, “ Descript io Mnrborum ex esu Cldtt vorum Secalinorum." Dnhamcl, in Mem. l'Acad, dcs Sciences, 1748. Dr. C. WoolastoiA in Philosophical Trans. 1762. Tcssicr, i J Mem. de la Societc Royalc de Medccinc, T. and 2, S[c. O. Presscott, A Dissertation oA the Natural History and Medicinal Effects <-j| the Secalc cornutum, or ergot, 'avo. LoiuM 1813. D. F. Heffter, Doctrinoe de Gangra-mt] brevis Expositio, 4to. Lips. 1807. C. L.GI Licssehing, De Gangrcrna, 4io. Gott. 1811:1 Hennen s Principles of Military SurgcryA p. 241, fyc. Ed. 2, 8vo. Loud. 1820. G. J'A Guthrie on Gunshot Woundf, §c. p. Ill, &A Ed. 2, 8 vo. Loud. 1820. J. II. James, Ob A on the Principles of Inflammation, p, 84, 287,1 c^'C. 8vo. Land. 1821. Sir Astley Cooper Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 186, 8vo. Loach 1820. MOXA. A soft lanuginous substance pref pared from the young leaves of a species oi mugwort. It is used in the following way : A little cone of the moxa is laid upon the part i, previously moistened, and set on fire at the top i It burns down with a temperate glowing heat J and produces a dark-coloured spot, the sepa4| ration of which is promoted by applying a littleM garlic. The ulcer is left to discharge, or is9 healed up according to the object in view. Thf* moxa is famous in the East for curing several! diseases ; and the French are much in the habitj* of using it; but, when English surgeons wish! to produce a slough, they generally have recourses to caustics, in preference to actual fire. M. Roux, when he visited the London hos- pitals, bad two opportunities afforded him of ap- plying the moxa, in order to convince the rising; generation of surgeons in this country of its su- perior efficacy. The first was in a case of spon- taneous paralysis of the deltoid muscle at St. Bartholomew’s. The moxa was applied a little | below the acromion, and a few days afterwards* the motion of the arm began to be, restored. This, however, was a case, which, according to * the account of Roux himself, had relapsed, after having been cured by other means. I think one f of the surgeons of St. Bartholomew’s informed | me, that notwithstanding the moxa, the relief! ■proved again only temporary. If, however, the moxa had succeeded, a caustic issue, a blister, or volatile liniments, would probably have answered [ equally well. The second instance, in which < M. Roux applied the moxa, was a case of white swelling at Guy’s Hospital; hut the disease had \ advanced too far to allow any hope of a favour- i able issue. (See Voyage fait a Londrcs en \ 1814, ou Parallelc de la Chirurgie Angioisc j ! avee la Chirurgie Franpaisc, p. 19, 20.) M. ! Roux flatters himself that, “ leg chirurgicns ■ Anglois repugneront sans doutc moins a lave- ( nir a fa ire usage du moxa." The truth is, English surgeons, as well as English farriers, knew very well before the arrival of M. Roux what might he done with moxa and the actual cautery. But, though the application of fire