12 ALVINE CONCRETIONS. reason shows clearly enough, that, if two separate analyses were made, one of the nucleus, the other of the surrounding matter, there would be obtained from the nucleus the same elements, as those of an hepatic calculus, and from the rest those of an intestinal concretion. (SeePensieri siilla Varia Origine, $c. dt Carpi ca/colosi die vengono espuUi dal tuba gastrica, p. 15—17.) As the same author remarks, the foregoing principles will enable us to determine with greater precision, than formerly, the characters, which appertain to the several classes of calculi, liable to be voided from the intestinal canal; characters, by means of which there can be no difficulty in deciding, from the appearance of one of these concretions, the place of its origin, and its peculiar nature. The hepatic calculus, being composed of bile, and also of adipodre, its characters will be $uch as indicate the predominance of an uni- form, oleaginous, and (what Rubini terms) a well aninialized principle. The gastric, or intestinal calculus, arising from the union of various salts, earths, and other principles, which happen to be in the alimentary canal, will have very different characters, generally indicating its earthy, saline composition. Lastly; the he- patico-gastric calculus will present an union of the different characters ; viz. in the centre, the characters of the hepatic calculus; more ex- ternally, those of the gastric. The criteria for distinguishing the several kinds of calculi from each other, may be divided into two classes; those which maybe termed external, being derived from accidental circumstances attending the foreign body; and others, which may be called internal, being deduced from the inherent characters, belonging to the composition and nature of these concretions. The first of these external criteria, is the age of the patient. C. Stephanus, Hoffmann, Du- rande, and Morgagni all agree, that biliary calculi seldom occur, except in subjects of ad- vanced age, and never in youth. And Haller writes, “ Juniores et pueros, quantum novi, num- quum adjligit morbus." Morgagni states, that he has met with sixty-one old persons who had alvine concretions, but only eight young persons, not one of whom was a child, the youngest being twelve years of age, and the eldest twenty-nine. To these I may add the instance, reported by Saye, in which a stone as large as a hen’s egg, was founl in the gall-bladder of a young female aged onk twelve. (See Jaurn. des Sivans, Sept. 1697.) The cause of this difference is attempted to be explained by Morgagni; but probably a more rational explanation than that sug- gested by him, will be found in the analysis of the bile of old and young subjects, as made by Four- croy and other modern chemists. From these and other observations, collected by Rubini, it is rational to conclude, that when an alvine con- cretion is discharged from a young subject, the chances are that it is not a biliary one; though, if the patient be of advanced age, it is not to be inferred, that the foreign substance expelled must' certainly be hepatic, because gastric or intestinal concretions are common to individuals of every age. (Rubini, op. cil.p. 18.) Indeed, with the latter kind of calculi, men of advanced age and women are said to be most frequently afflicted ; children and young persons rarely suffering,,un- less the formation of such bodies has been pro- duced by the presence of fruit-stones, or other indigestible substances, which serve as nuclei. (See Richerami's Nosogrnphie Chir. T. 3, p. 433, Eil. 4.) These concretions have likewise been noticed in patients, who have been confined by disease a long while in a recumbent posture. With respect to another criterion, deduced from the patient being also afflicted with urinary calculi, there cannot be a doubt of its invalidity, though proposed by so great a man as Morgagni. The concurrence of the two disorders in the same individual, when it happens, is purely accidental. Suffice it to add, that Haller, in his pathological works, expressly mentions the rarity of urinary calculi at Gottingen, where cases of gall-stones are extremely frequent. A third criterion is drawn from the symptoms, which precede, or accompany the expulsion of the calculus. Sense of heaviness, irritation, and pain in the region of the liver, pain about the ensiform cartilage and navel, bilious vomiting, jaundice, and either looseness of the bowels or constipation, are the symptoms, which (especially when they frequently occur) indicate the hepatic origin of the calculus, and proceed from its passing through the narrow ducts of the liver or gall-bladder to- wards the intestines. The most careful observa- tions have proved, however, that these symptoms are only to be depended upon when taken collec- tively, and that no single one gives any certain information. Also, if their presence be sufficient to prove the hepatic origin of the calculus, their absence can by no means be regarded as a proof of the concretion being of the intestinal kind. (Rubini, p. 19.) Fourth criterion. A calculus voided may be set down as undoubtedly hepatic, if accompanied by others, which are unequivocally of this nature. In a case recorded by Brunner, and in another by Vater, the absence of certain symptoms in the first, and the magnitude of the calculus in the second, created doubts whether the concretions were not more likely to be of the intestinal kind, than of the hepatic. At length, the bodies hav- ing been opened, the presence of other similar calculi in the gall-bladders afforded an adequate criterion. Morgagni lays down a fifth criterion, deduced from the number of the calculi voided ; which, if very numerous, are to be considered as biliary. Rubini points out, however, the fallacy of this test; both hepatic and gastric concretions being sometimes single, sometimes in various numbers even up to a thousand; and he refers to a case where a very large number of concretions of the gastric description were voided, as reported by Konig. The test, here suggested, however, may be considered as generally valid ; for, the number of intestinal concretions is rarely more than two, though sometimes very considerable. (T.TIiomsou. See. Med. Chir. Jourii. Vot. 4, p. 189.) I shall now follow Rubini, and notice those cha- racters of alvine concretions, which he calls iulcr~ nal, and are deduced from their quality and com- position, beginning with the criterion furnished by the size of the extraneous substance voided. As the biliary ducts are narrow, it is obvious that, if the calculus be above a certain size, it cannot have passed through those narrow tubes, and conse- quently must be either of the gRstric description,