338 DISLOCATION. every thing will in general succeed very happily, as I have many times experienced.” (Pott.) I think the profession are much indebted to Mr. A. Cooper, for his application of terms to dislocations ol the ankle, which are liable to no mistake, or confusion. Thus, when be speaks of a dislocation of the tibia inwards, or outwards, backwards or forwards, the case spoken of is im- mediately known. On the contrary, when au- thors write about dislocations of the ankle, or foot, in any named direction, their meaning may be various and misinterpreted. We find this ex- emplified in Dupuytren’s valuable memoir on fractures of the lower end of the fibula; for, in- stead of terming the above case, a dislocation of the foot outwards, as the generality of writers have done, he thinks it should be named a dislo- cation of the foot inwards, on account of the di- rection, in which the astragalus is carried. nuairr ]\led. Chir. p. 3, 18ID.) With respect to the treatment of the preceding case, Dupuytren admits, that Pott’s method easily effects a reduction, though incapable of main- taining it; but, as I have endeavoured in the 2d Vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, to explain the practice recently proposed at the Hotel-Dieu, it would be useless repetition to enter into the sub- ject again. Mr. A. Cooper appears to prefer the mode of treatment on Mr. Pott’s principles; but gives one very essential piece of advice, which is, that the splint, upon which the outer part of the limb rests, may have a foot-piece, “ to give sup- port to the foot, prevent its eversion, and pre- serve it at right angles with the leg. If much inflammation succeeds, leeches are to be applied to the parts, and the constitution will require re- lief by taking blood from the arm.” (SnrgicaL Essays, Pari 2, p. 10B.) When the tibia is dislocated outwards, the in- ternal lateral ligaments are always ruptured, or pulled away from the bones, and the inner mal- leolus broken, previously to the fracture of the fibula. On a part of this statement, however, Dupuytren and Mr. A. Cooper differ, as the lat- ter mentions, that the deltoid ligament remains unbroken. In some cases, according to Mr. A. Cooper, the fracture is not confined to the mal- leolus, but passes obliquely through the articular surface of the tibia, which is thrown forwards and outwards upon the astragalus, in front of the mal- leolus externus. Sometimes, the astragalus is fractured, and the lower extremity of the fibula broken into several splinters. He states, also, that, when the fibula is not broken, the external lateral ligaments are ruptured. The foot is thrown inwards, its outer edge resting upon the ground; while a considerable projection is made by the malleolus externus under the skin. The accident is generally caused by the passage of the wheel of a carriage over the leg, or a violent twist of the foot inwards in jumping, or falling. (A. Cooper, Vol. cit. p. IIS.) The reduction is accomplished by relaxing the muscles of the calf, making extension in the axis of the leg, and pressing the lower head of the tibia inwards towards the astragalus. “ The limb is to be laid upon its outer side, resting upon a splint with a foot-piece, and a pad is to be placed upon the fibula just above the outer angle, and extending a few inches upwards, so as in some measure to raise that portion of the leg, and pre- vent the tibia and fibula slipping from the astra- ! 1 galus, as well as lessen the pressure of the rnal- j ] leolus externus upon the integuments.” (Surg. j Essays, Part ‘2. p. 113.) Mr. A. Cooper also i enjoins paying the strictest attention to hinder- ing the foot from being twisted inwards, or pointed ii downwards. Dupuytren’s manner of treating this case, is described in the second Vol. of the First Lines of H. Surgery. A complete dislocation of the lower head of'I the tibia forwards cannot happen, without the II fibula being first broken, and cither the base of IheU malleolus internus fractured, or its point torm' away. The foot being then acted upon by then extensor and flexor muscles, and unretained by f , the malleoli and their ligaments, yields to the pow-i erful operation of the muscles of the calf, the* astragalus passing behind the tibia, while thisj: projects forward under the tendons and skin of)- the instep. ( Dupuytren, Anmiaire Med. Chir. 7>Jv 187, 4(o. Paris. ]81ff.) The foot of course isn much shortened, the heel lengthened, and firmly i fixed, and the toes point downwards. Upon dis- i section, the tibia is found to rest upon the upper surface of the os naviculare, and os cuneiformel internum. The anterior part of the capsular li-i gament is torn through ; the deltoid ligament isjj only partially lacerated ; and the three ligaments!! of the fibula remain unbroken. (A. Cooper, T ofiji' cit. p. 109.) This case is much more difficult of reduction,jfl than the instance in which the foot is thrown in4|l wards; and the cause is owing to the powerful.! j manner, in which the muscles resist the extension)| of the parts, and placing them in their naturalrj position again. As Dupuytren observes, it id j true, that such resistance may be lessened by re4 laxing the muscles, and drawing the patient’s at) tention from his limb, plans, which fully answer) for the reduction of the other above mentioned! yet, in that now under consideration, they* ; case: are insufficient, and here a greater effort is re-) quired to bring the foot from behind forwards) and to place the astragalus under the tibia. And) a still greater difficulty is to keep the parts re-4 _ duced during the time necessary for the fibula) _ and torn ligaments to be firmly united. Tn fact) , the upper surface of the astragalus, which is con-41 vex from behind forwards, is so slippery, thali it is hard to make the tibia rest securely oijj! the articular pulley of that bone, which is itself incessantlv acted upon byT the extensor muscle* ! of the leg, so as to have a tendency to slip behind the lower head of the tibia. In addition therefore to-the bent posture, Dupuytren deems it neces- sary here to employ an apparatus, which propels the foot forward, and the lower head of the tibia backwards. (Anmiaire Med. Chir. p. 188.) As this apparatus has been described in the second Vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, I need not explain it again. Mr. A. Cooper prefers keeping the limb upon the heel, resting upon a pillow. A splint, with a suitable pad, and a foot-piece, is to be applied to each side of the leg, care being taken to keep the foot well supported at a right angle with the leg. (Surgical Essays, Port 2, p. 110.) Besides the complete dislocation of the ti >a forwards, a partial case is sometimes met wit . where onc-half of the articular surface of 1 c