AMPUTATION. 99 different from the present case. I believe it will seldom happen, that this operation will not be greatly preferable to amputation of the arm at the scapula, as this last is generally performed for a caries of the upper head of the os humeri, and as the preservation of a limb is always of the utmost consequence, and what every surgeon of the least humanity would at all times wish for, but particularly where, as in this case, .the whole limb, and its actions, are preserved entire, the cure no ways protracted, and the danger of the operation most undoubtedly less For though amputation is often indispensably necessary, and frequently attended with little danger or inconvenience when only part of a limb is removed, yet when the whole is lost, the danger is greatly increased, and the loss irreparable.” Mr. White concludes, with suggesting an analogous operation for removing the head of the femur, in lieu of amputation at the hip. Something of this kind is indeed re- ported to have been actually done on a girl with success. (See Joannis Mulder Orutiv dt Mentis P. Camper'., tVe. /). 81. Cases in Surgery, by C. White, p. 57. or Phil. Trans, vol. 59-Jar 1769.) Here, however, the acetabulum and ossa inno- rr.inata being always, or generally, more diseased than the head of the femur, neither of these opera- tions, I think, ought to be attempted. Long after the publication of White’s case, viz. in 1767, an example, in which Vigaroux adopted the same practice, in 1788, was communicated to the pro- fession : the result, however, was unfortunate, the patient, a lad seventeen years of age, having died soon after the experiment. (See (Enures de Chir. Prat, par I. M. I. Vigaroux (Jils), Montp. 1812.) Bent, of Newcastle, has inserted a similar case to Mr. White’s in the 6-lth vol. of the Philoso- phical Transactions. White made only one in- cision, from the vicinity of the acromion down to the middle of the arm. Bent, not being able to get at the head of the bone through the wound which he had made, from the clavicle to the at- tachment of the pectoral muscle, detached a por- tion of the deltoid, where it is connected with the clavicle, and another part, where it is adherent to the humerus. A third successful case is also reported in the G9th vol. of the same work, p. 6. Afterwards, Bromfield published some directions for the-guidance of the surgeon in the execution of such operations. (Chir; Ohs. and Case*.) Sa- batier has proposed making two cuts at the upper part of the arm, which meet below like the letter V, extirpating the flap, dividing the inner head of the biceps, and capsular ligament; dislocating the head of the bone, and sawing it off. (Mctlecine Opp.ralaire, t. 3.) I think the cases recorded by White and Bent are truly important, inasmuch as they appear to have been the earliest models of a practice, which may sometimes supersede all occasion for one of the most formidable and mutilating operations of surgery. To military and naval surgeons, these cases cannot fail to be highly interesting, as they must have frequent opportunities of availing themselves of the instruction which they afford. Larrcy, who was surgeon general to the French army in Egypt, employed the practice, with the greatest success, in cases of gunshot wounds. thereby saved limbs, which, according to ordinary precepts and opinions, would have been a just ground for amputating at the shoulder; and, when it is considered, not only that a most dangerous operation is avoided, but that an upper extremity is saved, lor which no substitute can be applied, we must allow that the plan, first sug- gested and practised by Mr. White, cannot be too highly appreciated. When the arm was frac- tured near its upper extremity by a musket-ball, most surgeons formerly deemed it necessary to amputate the limb. Here, says Larrey, it would be useless to dilate the entrance and exit of the ball, because a sufficient opening could not be prudently made in this way for the extraction of the head of the bone. Yet this body is now an 'extraneous substance, having lost its connexion with the body of the humerus, and its presence exciting irritation and inflammation of the joint, abscesses, necrosis, &e. Here Larrey seems to imply, that the detached head of the bone cannot unite again; an assertion which, I have no doubt, is quite incorrect, as I have attended several cases in which the humerus was broken very high up, yet united without difficult)7. The bad symptoms, which he so emphatically attributes to the de- tachment of the head from the body of the bone, are in reality the effects of the gunshot violence itself. If, therefore, the head of the bone were merely broken off, and it and the neighbouring part of the bone not splintered, nor the flesh not more extensively injured than would arise from the passage of a musket-ball, and the joint itself not involved, I should question the propriety of having recourse, at once, either to the extraction of the head of the bone, or amputation at the shoulder. When the bone is shattered, the case is often very different, and Larrey’s practice is then commendable. In confirmation of these sen- timents, I may mention Mr. Guthrie’s opinion, who, in reference to the extraction of the head of the bone, says, he does not consider a perfect fracture of the humerus, an inch below its' head (although there be evident separation), as de- manding even this operation, as he has known such cases do well, when treated as other com- pound fractures, except that the motion of the joint was nearly lost. (On Gunshot W ounds, p. 329.) However, it is fair to mention, that Mr. Guthrie inclines to amputation at the shoulder when the bod)7 of the bone is splintered, or has long fissures in it, in which sentiment he is pro- bably right. The other operation seems prin- cipally calculated for cases, in which the damage is restricted to the head and uppermost portion of the bone. According to Mr. Guthrie, when the ball passes out with little injury to the bone, and the openings already made are not sufficient to admit of a moderate examination with the point of the linger, the wound should be enlarged. However, others might argue, that such dilatation should be made only when the bone is felt to be seriously broken, and the fragments will probably require immediate removal. But whatever course be adopted, the most rigorous antiphlogistic treat- ment will be proper; and, if abscesses form, depending openings should be made lor the dis- charge. Larrey says, “ I have had the good fortune, on ten different occasions, to supersede the ne- cessity lor amputation nt the shoulder, >> "u' complete and immediate extraction ot the head * II 2