1CG4 TUMOR. of the os frontis; which is regarded by Beer as a very favourable circumstance in the operation. Though the atheroma and meliceris of the upper eyelid occasionally become as large as a pigeon’s egg, Beer has never known a steatoma, in the vicinity of the eyelids, exceed the size of a hazel nut Encysted tumors of the upper eyelid itself sometimes appear moveable, though they may be at the same time closely adherent to the carti- lage. Hence, Beer recommends moving the tumor about for a few days before the operation, and trying to push it above the superciliary ridge; and, if this cannot be done, the circum- stance will prove, that the swelling is connected with the cartilage, or, at least, is under the orbi- cular muscle, and the mode of operating regu- lated accordingly. With the yellow pappy sub- stance, found in the cysts of atheromatous tu- mors of the eyelids, fine short hairs, scarcely one line in length, are frequently blended. Some- times, as Beer remarks, the whole inside of the cyst is covered with these little short hairs, which may all be washed out, and are destitute of bulbs; a fact also noticed by Sir Astley Cooper. It merits attention, however, that in tumors of the meliceris kind, formed upon the eyelid, Beer never met with hairs. (LeJire von den Avgenkr. B.2,p. 607—609.) He remarks, that, when encysted swellings of the eyelid are let alone, he has never known them produce any injury to the eye itself, excepting the hindrance to the opening of it, when they are large. On the other hand, if they be unskilfully removed, or rashly attacked with caustic, various ill consequences may en- sue ; as for instance, fistula? of the lachrymal gland, entropium from a shrinking of the tarsal cartilage, ectropium from destruction of the skin, and the hare-eye from an actual shortening of the upper eyelid. In consequence of the inflam- mation, caused by escharotics, Beer has more than once, found the integuments so adherent to the tumor, that in the operation, the removal of a considerable piece of them was unavoidable. But, says he, when swellings of this nature are properly treated, in good time, they ma}' be re- moved, without leaving any vestige behind, ex- cepting a trivial scar. Professor Beer joins all the best modern surgeons in considering the entire removal of the sac, and the reunion of the wound by the first intention, as the safest and most effectual method of curing encysted tumors of the eyelids. He admits, however, that the hinder portion of the cysts of some swellings of this nature upon the upper eyelid cannot be dis- sected out, because it maybe so closely adherent to the cartilage, that its excision would injure the latter part too much, and produce either an in- curable entropium, or an irremediable shortening of the eyelid. But, steatomatous tumors, near the eyelids, may almost always be completely dissected out, the only exceptions being cases, in which the swellings happen to be situated be- tween the lachrymal sac and the orbicular mus- cle, and so intimately connected with the first of these parts, that the back portion of the cyst could not be cut away, without permanently de- stroying the functions of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs. However, when the upon the utility of moving the tumor a good deal about daily, for a few days before the operation, so as to loosen its connexions', and enable the surgeon to push it over the edge of the orbit, where it may be steadily fixed during its removal. (//. 2, p. 612.) Excepting a few instances, in which the skin was diseased, and firmly adherent to the cyst, Beer has never found it necessary, in the excision of encysted swellings of the eve- lids, to remove any portion of the integuments, and he has cut away some tumors of this kind, which were as large as a pigeon’s or hen’s egg. The incision, through the "skin, he says, should be longer, than the tumor, so as to facilitate the extraction of the distended cyst. (A. 2, p. G13.) When it is not advisable, for reasons above stated, to attempt to dissect out every particle of the cyst, Beer tills the cavity with lint, lets the wound suppurate, and, if this plan is not suffi- cient, he applies stimulants and caustic. It is noticed by Sir Astley Cooper, that encysted tu- mors, at the outer canthus, are often difficult of removal, on account of their extending into the orbit, and being adherent to the periosteum. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 241.) Professor Scarpa has strongly recommended making the incision for the extraction of encysted swellings of the palpebrae, on the inside of these parts. But, as Mr. Travers correctly remarks, the swell- ings are often situated superficially, and loosely connected witli the tarsus, in which case, the operation should be done on the outside of the eyelid. The latter writer admits, however, that the cyst is often formed, betwixt the cartilage and the ligamentary membrane, which covers it, and, in his opinion, it is only when an intricate adhesion subsists, and the appearance of a white circumscribed indentation is seen upon the evert- ed tarsus, thut the excision should be performed on the inside of the eyelid, by dividing the car- tilage. (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 357.) I shall conclude the subject of tumors with a few observations, delivered by Sir Astley Cooper, and Professor Langenbeck. “ The removal ol encysted tumors, (the first gentleman observes,) is not entirely unattended with danger. I have seen three instances of severe erysipelatous in- flammation succeed the operation of removing these swellings upon the head, and, I believe, it is owing to the tendon of the occipito-frontalis being wounded in the attempt to dissect them out whole.” (Surgical Essays, Part 2, />• 241.) In the extirpation of tumors about the neckr Langenbeck adopts the following rules: he makes a free division of the integuments, and dissects the muscles from the tumor, which lie over it, but lie avoids cutting through, or inju- ring them : in this manner, the swelling is ren- dered more moveable. By the situation of muscles, lie is then enabled to know the place the chief blood-vessels ; and, on this account, be particularly advises ycung surgeons to study myology with the greatest care. As Langenbct* remarks, it is indeed an important advantage after a muscle is exposed, to know wliat vessel* lie at its edges, or underneath it. Thus, the sur- ► \ f I I ► k I * I I \ E a it ti : • k