OPHTHALMY. 8G6 texture which happens to be most affected, I shall briefly state a few other examples quoted by the same author. 1 hat the degree of redness, as well as of pain, varies considerably in different states of ophthalmy, is a fact universally known. In the beginning of the complaint, such redness is generally less perceptible, than when the inflam- mation has attained its highest pitch ; but it is not equally great in every individual, nor in every species of ophthalmy, being sometimes more intense and diffused, sometimes less both in degree and extent. This diversity is referred by Beer, and probably with reason, to the tex- ture, affected in the eye, being furnished with many considerable blood-vessels, obvious to the sight, or only containing vessels, more concealed and rather tilled with a colourless fluid, than with red blood. The looseness or unyielding nature of the texture, is also represented as making a difference in the degree of redness. In inflammation, principally affecting the con- junctiva and sclerotica, says Beer, the redness is so intense, as to give the eye a frightful appear- ance, as is seen in chemosis; while in inflam- mations of the innermost textures of the organ, the redness is scarcely perceptible, and, in the erysipelatous inflammation of the eyelids, the red- ness is very faint. (Beer, Lehrc von den Au- genkrankheiten, B. 1, p. 34—36.) Dr. Vetch remarks, that the conjunctiva is capable of being stretched to a great extent, owing to the loose structure of the cellular mem- brane, on which it lies, and consequently little resistance is made to the enlargement of its ves- sels. From slight irritation, they soon become distended with red blood, “ but their tone, or power of reaction, is speedily exhausted, and, if the exciting cause is not kept up in an increasing ratio, they quickly fall into a chronic, or vari- cose enlargement, or again contract to the dia- meter of the serous vessels.’’ On the other hand, (as the same experienced writer has pointed out,) inflammation of the sclerotic coat is slow in its commencement, and often insidious in its pro- gress, even when its ultimate violence is great. In the early stage of conjunctival ophthalmia, the inflammation is most observable at a di- stance from the cornea, round which the mem- brane often preserves for a length of time its natural appearance. Precisely the reverse takes place in the case of sclerotic inflammation, which invariably appears at the circumference of the cornea, forming a zone, more or less complete around, it, and most conspicuous above it, the form and colour of the vessels being at the same time, wholly different from those, which appear in the course of conjunctival in- flammation. Intolerance of light (says Dr. Vetch,) invariably accompanied sclerotic inflam- mation, and is entirely unconnected with that of the conjunctiva. (A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, p. 10.) If the latter ob- servation be strictly correct, it is to be inferred that, in all common cases of acute ophthalmy, involving the conjunctiva on the front of the eyeball, the sclerotica is more or less affected, ns in the beginning of the disorder, light may be said to be seriously annoying to every patient. According to Mr. Travers, when the scle- rotica partakes of the inflammation of the con- unctiva, the vessels, which pursue a straight course to the margin of the cornea, are strongly ; I distinguished, and have a somewhat darker hue, than the areolar vessels upon the loose portion of the conjunctiva. {Synopsis of the Diseases of j > the Eye, p. 128.) Diversified as the pain, redness, swelling, and |j heat, the four characteristic symptoms of inflam- 1 mation, may be in eases of ophthalmy, the inci- ' dental appearances in the eye are not less sub- (I ject to numerous modifications. Thus, some- [I times an extraordinary involuntary action of the [I muscles of the eyeball and eyelids, or of the II secreting and excreting lachrymal organs, and || of the Meibomian glands may be noticed; and i| sometimes the action of all these parts is either ;| diminished, or completely stopped. These dif- [I ferences Beer refers to the latter parts being « either themselves inflamed, or sympathizing with It the inflamed texture of the eye. In the first fit case, the action of the muscles, and the functions of the lachrymal organs, and Meibomian glancjf, U are more and more interrupted in proportion as I the inflammation increases, and must thus re- | main, while the inflammation lasts in its ge- nuine form ; but, in the second case, they go on, j and this even with greater activity, while the I inflammation continues, and until it has ceased I to become more violent. {B. 1, p. 3.9.) Acute ophthalmy in general, when at all se- | vere, and particularly when the inner textures of 1 the eye are affected, produces a febrile disturb- hj ance of the whole constitution. This change fti from a local to a general indisposition takes ^ir place with greater certainty and quickness, in t|r proportion as the focus of inflammation is ex- » tensive, the constitution irritable, the disorder of Kjt the eye neglected, and the mischief considerable, pi which is actually produced in the organ, whether pi; accidentally, or in consequence of unskilful M treatment. (Beer, Vol.cit.p. 42.) Many of the appearances and effects of oph- thalmy are different, as the inflammation hap- j- pens to be of an acute, or chronic nature. And, I as Scarpa has taken particular pains to impress upon the minds of surgical practitioners, every acute ophthalmy, though treated in the best pos- sible manner, is never so completely resolved as not to be followed by a certain period, at which | all active disturbance ceases, in the place of |< ; which a degree of chronic ophthalmy remains in the conjunctiva, or lining of the eyelids; the ;■< effect, either of local weakness in the vessels, or k.? of the continuance of a morbid irritability in it \ the eye, after the removal of the acute stage of Vi . the inflammation. As it occasions a diseased k * secretion in the organ, and a slow accumulation of blood and coagulating lymph, the inexpeii- enced are apt to suppose, that the acute stage is i not yet entirely subdued, while it is completely #.'f so. Now, if the inculcations of Richter and # Scarpa be correct, immediately the critical mo- • ment arrives, when the acute stage changes into the chronic, attended with local weakness, it is ;f ■ of the highest importance to alter the treatment, without delay, and to substitute for emollient, relaxing applications, such as partake of an T j astringent corroborant quality, as the former only I protract the turgescence of the vessels, and the • j redness of the conjunctive. “ Quo major autetn | fuit inflanimationis vehementia (says Richter,) Rj eo major plcrumque sequitur partium affectarum r