HYDROPHOBIA. 675 5. M ner in which the patient breathes, there is some reason for questioning, whether the saliva, strictly so called, undergoes the alteration gene- rally supposed ? (See Diet, ties Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 66.) However, this writer is not exactly correct, when he describes the frothy se- cretion about the mouth, as being altogether composed of mucus from the trachea, since a <rreat part of it is unquestionably true saliva and mucus secreted in the fauces and mouth. In the stomachs of dogs, which died rabid, Dr. Gillman constantly observed traces of inflam- mation, and he once tried to communicate the disease to two rabits, by inoculating them with .matter taken from pustules, found in the sto- mach of a rabid dog; but no infection took place. (On the Bite of a Rabid Animal, p. 32.) According to Professor Rossi, of Turin, the nerves “ before they grew cold, participated with the saliva in the property of communicating rabies.” He asserts, that he once imparted the disease by inserting in a wound a bit of the sciatic nerve, immediately after it had been taken from a living rabid cat. (See Mem. de VAcad. Imp. de Turin, Sciences, Phys. ct Mathem. de 1805 i 1808, part. 93, de la Notice des Travaux.) After all which has been stated, concerning the lypothesis of the infectious principle of hydro- jhobia being more or less diffused through the iolids and fluids of a rabid animal, and not being estricted to the saliva, perhaps, the safest con- clusion to be made is, not to reject the opinion •dtogether, but to consider it as at present re- tiring further proof. And from observations ■f what happens in the human subject, the same mferences should not always be drawn, as from xperiments on animals, which are liable to be Hacked with spontaneous rabies of a decidedly nfeetious character. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 67.) Although many cases are to be met with in : he records of medicine and surgery, tending to : onvey an idea, that the mere application of the aliva of a rabid animal to the sound entire skin f the human subject, may give rise to hvdro- hobia, the assertion is contrary to general ex- erience, and liable to a reflection which must verturn the hypothesis; viz. the slightest rick, scratch, abrasion or broken pimple on the jrface of the body, such as would not be likely t many instances to excite notice, may render ;ie application of the saliva to the part a positive oculation. Instances are also reported, the tenor of which to prove, that the hydrophobic virus may take ■feet through a sound mucous membrane. {Pal- arius, de Morins Contag.; Portal, Obs. stir f Rage, p. 131 ; Matthieu in Mem. dc la Soc. oyale de Mid. p. 310, <§T.) But, that tl ** not happen in the human subject is tol bly well proved by the consideration, that fo erly a class of men made it their business ck the wounds, caused by the bites of rabid ar als i )’et none of them contracted hydrophot no this bold employment. (Bosquillon, Met a Soc- d'Emulation, T. 5. p. 1.) The e: m ^ t*le nurse> who repeatedly kissed dd without the least ill effect, while it w ;ng of rabies, as recorded by Dr. J. Vauglia s been already noticed. However, if hvdr o la were apparently to apse in any rare i stance from the application of the slaver of a rabid animal to the inside of the lips, no positive inference could be drawn from the fact, unless the means were also possessed of ascertaining, that there were no slight abrasion about the gums, or within the mouth, previously to such application. For the hydrophobic virus to take effect, therefore, it is generally, if not always neces- sary, that the infectious Saliva be either applied to an abraded, wounded, or ulcerated surface. In the case of a bite, the teeth are the envenomed weapons, which at once cause the solution of continuity, and deposit the infection in the part. But, the mere abrasion of the cuticle, and the application of the infectious saliva to the de- nuded cutis, will often suffice for the future pro- duction of the disease. As the mode of commu- nication, therefore, is a true inoculation, it fol- lows, that the danger must depend very much upon the quantity of infectious matter conveyed into, or applied to the part, the effectual manner, in which the saliva is lodged in the flesh, the ex- tent and number of the wounds, and particularly the circumstance of the teeth of the rabid animal having passed through no clothes, by which the saliva might possibly be effectually prevented from entering the wound at all. Hence, bites on the hands and face are well known to be of the most dangerous description, especially those on theface, the hands being sometimes protected with gloves. From what has been observed, however, it is not to be concluded, that the disease always follows, even when the animal, which inflicts the bite, is decidedly rabid, and some of its saliva is actually applied to the wounded, or abraded parts. On the contrary, experience fully proves, that out of the great number of individuals often bit by the same mad dog, and to whom no effec- tual prophylactic measure is extended, only a greater or lesser number are afterwards attacked with hydrophobia. When this difference in the fate of the individuals cannot be explained by the intervention of their clothes, the thickness of the cuticle at the injured part, the small size and su- perficial nature of the bite, the ablution of the part, or some other mode, in which any actual inoculation may have been rendered ineffectual, it can only be referred to some unknown pecu- liarities, or differences in the constitutions of the several individuals. The latter conjecture seems more probable, when the fact is recollected, that some animals are more susceptible of rabies, than others, and some, appear to resist the infection altogether. Dogs are more susceptible of the infection, than the human species Four men, and twelve dogs, were bit by the same mad dog, and every one of the dogs died of the disease, while all the four men escaped, though they used no other means of prevention but such as we see every day fail. There is also an instance of twenty persons being bit by the same mad dog, of whom only one had the disease. Dr. Heysham has defined hydrophobia to be an aversion and horror at liquids, exciting a painful convulsion of the pharynx, and occurring at an indeterminate period after the canine virus has been received into the system. Dr. Cul- len places it in the class neuroses, and order spatmi, and defines it p. loathing and great dread