HERNIA. nil about ten lines from the abdominal ring, has its situation and direction so changed, in subjects affected with hernia, that it crosses the posterior part of the neck of the hernial sac, and is pushed from the outer to the inner side of the abdominal rin.r. In order to comprehend the reason of this displacement, it is necessary to recollect what I have elsewhere said of the formation of inguinal hernia, and of the manner, in which the sperma- tic cord crosses the epigastric artery. The her- nia begins to form at the very place, where the spermatic cord passes under the inferior margin of the transverse muscle; and this place is rather nearer the flank, than that where the epigastric artery passes towards the rectus muscle. In its progressive extension, the hernjal sac con- stantly follows the same track as the spermatic cord, since it is situated upon its anterior surface. As has been already explained, this cord crosses the epigastric artery; consequently, the hernial sac must necessarily pass with the cord above this artery, before protruding from the canal of the abdominal ring. At the same time, the in- ternal orifice of the hernia becoming larger, and the inguinal canal shortened by the approxima- tion of its two orifices to each other, it follows, that, at the period, when the hernia begins to make its appearance in the groin, the epigastric artery is unavoidably situated behind the neck of the hernial sac, and is pushed from the outer to the inner side of the ring. Let us suppose a piece of string to be passed from the inside of the abdomen into the scrotum, all through the inguinal canal, and the middle of the hernia ; and that this string is pulled so as to bring the internal orifice of the hernia, which is situated beyond ^the point where the spermatic cord crosses the epigastric artery; this artery will immediately be found to be carried from the outer to the inner side of the neck of the her- nial sac. The same thing happens from the effect of the enlargement of the hernia. The removal of the epigastric artery from one side of the ring to the other, (says Scarpa) is a phe- nomenon, which may be regarded as almost con- stant in the inguinal hernia. I have examined the bodies of a great number of subjects, affected with this species of hernia; and it lias been only in a very few, that I met with the epigastric artery retaining its natural situation on the outer side of the abdominal ring. In investigating the reason of this exception, I have observed, in all the individuals who presented it, a very remark- able weakness and flaccidity of that part of the abdominal parietes, which extends from the flank to the pubes. In all the displaced, viscera had patted through the aponeuroses of the transverse and internal oblique muscles. not in the vicinity of the ilium, as is commonly the case, but, at a lit- tle distance from the pubes, giving to the upper pillar of the ring a curvature that is extraor- dinary, and disproportioned to the smallness of the hernia. I observed, also, that the neck of the hernial sac did not pass in an oblique di- rection, from the flank to the pubes, but, that it protruded from the abdomen almost in a direct line from behind forwards. In short, in these individuals, the small cul-de-sac of the perito- neum, which constitutes the origin of the hernial sac, had not begun to be formed under the edge of the transverse muscle, at the point where the spermatic cord runs outward; but, it had passed th rough the aponeuroses of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, at a little distance from the pubes, and within the point at which the spermatic cord crosses the epigastric artery. The small hernial sac, having at this part come into contact with and united to the spermatic cord, protrudes at the external orifice of the in- guinal canal, without displacing the epigastric artery from its natural situation. “ This species of hernia, properly speaking, is a mixture of the ventral and inguinal. It re- sembles the former, inasmuch as the hernial sac pierces the aponeuroses of the transverse and in- ternal oblique muscles; the latter, inasmuch as it passes out at the abdominal ring, conjointly with the spermatic cord.” (Scarpa, Traits des Hernies, p. 08, <*j c. Hesselbach particularly adverts to a triangu- lar space to be seen on the inside of the inguinal region : the upper boundary of it is formed by the outer edge of the rectus muscle ; the lower by the horizontal branch of the os pubis; and the external shortest boundary by the crural vein and epigastric artery. Now, says he, when it is considered, that this artery ascends ob- liquely inwards, between the inner opening of the ring, and the above triangular space, one cannot fail to know on which side of the neck of the sac the artery must lie in the two species of inguinal, as well as the crural, hernia; for, in those herniae, which originate in the above triangular space, this artery lies at the outer side of tlie neck of the hernial sac; while, in every hernia, that takes place through the inner open- ing of the inguinal canal, the same vessel is situated at the inner side of the neck of the sac. To one species of bubonocele, Hesselbach ap- plies the epithet external; and to the other, in- ternal ; according to the situation of the point at which they first protrude. The external inguinal hernia is much more frequent, than the internal, and is said to happen oftener on the right, than the left side of the body : a circum- stance, coinciding with another observation, viz. that, in children, the tunica vaginalis remains longer open on the right than the left side. The circumstance of there being two forms of inguinal hernia formerly caused considerable perplexity: surgeons knew, that the epigastric artery lay sometimes at the inner, sometimes at the outer, side of the neck of the hernial sac, hut knew not how to account for this variation. Hence arose the very different opinions about the proper method of dividing the ring when the hernia was strangulated ; some authors directing tlie incision to be made obliquely inwards and up- wards ; and others, upwards and outwards. But, as a modern writer lias judiciously remarked, had they paid greater attention to the direction of the swelling, formed by the neck and body of the hernial sac in the groin, and to the position of the spermatic cord, which is as inconstant as that of the'epigastric artery ; and had they dis- sected the parts in the diseased, as well as healthy, state, they could not fail soon to have suspected, that every inguinal hernia does not originate exactly at one and the same point. For the first establishment of ibis very im- portant distinction, the world is indebted to Mr. A. Cooper; and the tract, in which Hesselbach It It 2