534 HEMORRHAGE. substances, connecting the artery \with the sheath, admits of its retracting a certain way within the sheath. 'Another important fact is : that when an ar- tery is divided, its truncated extremities con- tract in a greater, or less, degree, and the contraction is generally, if not always, perma- nent. Arteries are furnished with arteries, veins, ab- sorbents, and nerves; a structure, which makes them suscept ible of every change to which living parts are subjected in common ; enables them to injlame, when injured, and to pour out coagu- lating lymph, by which the injury is repaired, or the tube permanently closed. (See Jones on Hemorrhage.) Petit, the surgeon, in 1731, first endeavoured to explain the means, which nature employs for the suppression of hemorrhage. He thought, that bleeding from a divided artery is stopped by the formation of a coagulum of blood, which is situated partly within, and partly without the vessel. The clot, he says, afterwards adheres to the inside of the artery, to its orifice, and to the surrounding parts; and, he adds, that when hemorrhage is stopped by a ligature, a coagulum is formed above the ligature, which only differs in shape, from the one, which takes place when no ligature is employed His opinion leads him to recommend compression for the support of the coagulum. In 1736, Morand published additional interest- ing remarks. He allowed, that a coagulum had some effect in stopping hemorrhage; but, con- tended, that a corrugation, or plaiting, of the cir- cular fibres of the artery which diminish its canal, and a shortening and consequent thicken- ing of its longitudinal ones, which nearly ren- dered it impervious, had some share in the process. He thought that the cavity of an artery might be obliterated, by the puckering, or corrugation, when circular pressure, like that of a ligature, is made. ■ Morand erred chiefly in his mode of explana- tion, and in his belief in the existence of longi- tudinal fibres, which no modern anatomists admit; for, the contraction, and retraction of divided arteries are indisputable facts, and, as Dr. Jones remarks, this does not affect the truth of his ge- neral conclusion, that the change, produced on a divided artery, contributes with the coagulum to stop the flow of blood. Mr. S. Sharp {fid Edit, of Operations of Sur- gery, 1739,) supported the same doctrine. “ The blood-vessels, immediately upon their di- vision, bleed freely and continue bleeding, till they are either stopped by art, or at length con- tracting, and withdrawing themselves into the wound, their extremities are shut up by coagu- lated blood.” Pouteau (Melanges de Chirurgie, 1760,) denied, that a coagulum is always found after an artery is divided; and, when it is, he thought it only a feeble and subsidiary means towards the suppression of hemorrhage. He contended, that the retraction of the artery had not been demon- strated, and could not be more effectual, than a coagulum. His theory was, that the swelling of the Cellular membrane, at the circumference of the cut extremity of the artery, forms the prin- cipal impediment to the flow of blood ; and that a ligature is useful in promoting a more im- mediate and extensive induration of the cellular substance. Gooch, White, Aikin, and. Kirkland, all op- pose Petit’s doctrine of coagulum. The first blends some of Pouteau’s theory with his own, by observing, that “ when a small artery is to- tally divided, its retraclion may bring it under the surrounding parts, and with the natural con- traction of the diameter of its mouth, assisted by the compressive power of those parts, increased by their growing tumid, the elilux of blood may be stopped.” White was convinced, from what Gooch had suggested, and Kirkland confirmed, that the ar- teries, by their natural contraction, coalesce, as far as their first ramification. Dr. Jones admits, that an artery contracts after it has been divided, and his experiments authorize him to say, that the contraction of an artery is an important means, but, certainly not the only, nor even the chief means, by which he- morrhage is stopped. When the artery is above a certain size, the impetuous flow of blood through the wound of the artery would resist the contraction of the vessel in such a degree, that the consequences would be fatal in almost every instance, were it not for the formation of a coa- gulum. {Jones.) Mr. J. Bell thinks, that, when hemorrhage stops of its own accord, it is neither from the re- traction of an artery, nor the constriction of its fibres, nor the formation of dots, hut, by the cellular substance, which surrounds the artery, being injected with blood. We must refer the reader to Dr. Jones’s work for a complete exposure of the inconsist- encies and absurdities in Mr. Bell's account of his own theory. (See P. US, §c.) Dr. Jones concludes his criticisms on Air. Bell with observing, that if this gentleman really mean to confine his doctrine of the natural means of suppressing hemorrhage to the injection of the cellular substance, round the artery, with blood, he dwells improperly on one of the attend- ant circumstances to the exclusion of the "re- traction, and contraction of an artery, and the formation of a distinct clot, all primary parts of the process. The blood, besides filling the cellular sub- stance round the artery, also fills the cellular substance at the mouth of the artery in a parti- cular manner; for, the divided vessel, by its re- traction within its cellular sheath, leaves a space of a determinate form, which, when all the cir- cumstances necessary for the suppression of he- morrhage operate, is gradually filled up by a di- stinct clot. {Jones.) MEANS OF NATURE IN STOPPING BLEEDING FROM DIVIDED ARTERIES. Dr. Jones has given a faithful and accurate detail of a series of experiments on animals, which demonstrate “ that the blood, the action, and even the structure of the arteries, their sheath, and the cellular substance connecting them with it,” are concerned in stopping bleed- ing from a divided artery of moderate size, W