6-15 hernia. a, if® «» l 14* j tumors are formed. (On Injuries of the Head, t/< Surgical Works, l ol. 2, />• 53.) On the contrary, Mr. C. Bell declares, that the swelling is vascular and organized. (Ope- rative Surgery, FoJ. 1.) Dr. John Thomson also entertains a different opinion from that of Mr. Abemethy, respecting the mode in which these herniae cerebri are formed; but, I question whether he may not have confounded with the disease now under consideration, fungous tumors of the dura mater. At least, some of the cases, to which he alludes, as a reason for his sentiment concerning their mode of formation, must have been the disease so well described by M. Louis. (See Dura Mater.) The reader, however, must judge for himself from the following passage: “ In a con- siderable number of those who had the cranium severely contused, or fractured by nnisket-balls, (says Dr. Thomson) fungous growths took place through the openings, which had been made at iirst by the ball, or afterwards by the trepan. These growths, I am inclined to believe, are the consequence of a contusion of the substance of the brain, and of the membranes that] cover it, which gives rise to the formation of a new or- ganized substance, different in its texture from brain, and are not, as some late writers would endeavour to persuade us, simply protrusions of the brain, resulting from the removal'of the natural resistance, which is made to them by the dura mater and cranium. I have known in- stances of substances, similar to these growths, forming on the surface of the brain, immedi- ately under the place, where the cranium had received a contusion, in cases in which the tre- pan had not been applied, or any portion of the cranium removed. “ Fungus of the brain, in the greater number of instances, in which we had an opportunity of observing it, was accompanied either with stupor or paralysis, and other symptoms of compressed brain. In a fracture of the vertex of the cra- nium, produced by a musket ball, and followed by a fungus of the brain, the paralysis took place in the lower extremities. In a case of wound, made by a musket ball on the right side of the forehead, and in which spiculae of bone had been driven in upon the brain, a large fungus protruded. The formation of this fungus was followed by slow pulse, stupor, dilated pupils; slight strabismus, and distortion of the mouth. In the progress of this case, escharotics were applied to the fungus, portions of it were torn ofT by the patient, and all of it that was ex- terior to the cranium, was twice pared off by the knife, with an apparent alleviation, rather than aggravation, of the symptoms. On the death of this patient, nearly the whole of the right .he- misphere of the brain was found converted into i soft pulpy mass. The left hemisphere was not •hanged in structure, though much vascular t'lrgescencc appeared on its surface.” (See Dr. /• / homson t Report of Observations 'made in 'he Military Hospitals in Belgium, /;. 57, 58.) rrom the investigations of Mr. Stanley, the 'i.'t is placed beyond all doubt, that a part of ic brain occasionally constitutes the substance it hernia: cerebri; and he thus confirms the • ipinion formerly entertained upon this point by iuesnay and Louis. Thus, in the first case vhicli Mr. Stanley lias recorded, “ the whole tumor was sliced off with a scalpel. During the operation, the boy gave no manifestation of po- sitive pain, although not unconscious of what we were doing. Considerable hemorrhage took place from the surface of the brain, exposed by the removal of the tumor, the blood being thrown with great force, and to a considerable distance from numerous vessels, which were attempted to be secured, but ineffectually, by ligatures. After a short time, however, the bleeding ceased. On examination of the part, which had been cut off, its exterior was found to consist merely of a layer of the coagulated blood; the rest of the mass was brain, possessing a natural appearance, the distinction between the cortical and medul- lary matter being readily seen, with the convo- lutions and pia mater dipping down between them.” In the dissection, after death, “ all that part of the dura mater, adjacent to the ulcerated aperture, through which the brain bad protruded, was black, sloughy, and much thick- ened. The exposed surface of the brain, from which the portion had been cut off, exhibited a softened and broken down texture; a state of disorganization, which extended deep into its substance. About an ounce of fetid and dark- coloured fluid was found between the dura mater and arachnoid membrane. Several small effu- sions of blood were met with, both between the membranes and in the substance of the brain. The arachnoid membrane was thickened and opaque over each hemisphere. The vessels on the surface, and in the substance of the brain, were remarkably free from blood. The lateral ventricles were large, and filled with transparent fluid, and there was some found between the membranes at the basis, so that, altogether the quantity from these two sources was very con- siderable.” (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 15—17.) In another dissection, a consider- able quantity of pus was found on the arachnoid membrane, on each side of the falx. (iJ. 27.) In most of the cases of hernia cerebri, which I have seen, the patient was at first more or less sensible, but labouring under considerable ner- vous agitation. The stupor, paralysis, and other symptoms of compressed brain, noticed by Dr. J. Thomson, did not take place, till the latter stage of the disease, and then convulsive twitches of the muscles and strabismus occasion- ally came on. (See Med. Chir. Trans, p. 26.) The disease is usually attended with great fre- quency of the pulse. With regard to the cause of the protrusion, it is a subject very difficult of explanation, be- cause, if the origin of the tumor depended simply on the removal of a portion of the skull, or on any changes of the dimensions of the brain in expiration, the effect would always follow such causes, and prevail in all patients. From the particulars of the dissections, performed by Mr. Abernethy and Mr. Stanley, and those referred to by Dr. J. Thomson, it is clear, that the her- nia cerebri is -a disease connected with deep- seated changes throughout a great part of the brain. (See also Larrcy, Mem. dc Chir. Alai. T. 4, p. ‘20b’.) The substance of this organ is found more or less pulpy and disor- ganized ; and, after death, large effusions of serum, and even sometimes of blood, and puru- lent matter, arc observed. These appearances leave no doubt of the disease being associated