198 ANUS. proof were needed, that the bowels between the artificial and natural ani remain pervious, it is furnished by the fact, that, in cases of artificial anus, the lower continuation of the tube frequent- ly becomes inverted, and protrudes. On the other band, the kind of obliteration, above spoken of, has never been demonstrated by dissection: it was not observed by Lecat, in the examination of the body of a person, who died twelve years after the entire cessation of the passage of feces per anum, nor was it found to exist by Desault, when he opened a patient, who died of marasmus in the Hotel-Dieu, in consequence of an artificial anus, which communicated with the ileum, and had lasted two years. (CEuvr. de Desault, T. 2, p. 354-56.) However proper the formation of an artificial anus may he, in many cases, in which the pa- tient’s life depends upon the event, it must be confessed, that the consequence is a most afflict- ing and disgusting infirmity. This truth cannot be denied, though the feces, which are discharged, from not having been so long retained in the bowels, may not be so fetid as those which are evacuated in the ordinary way. As the opening, which gives vent to the excrement, is not endued with the same organization as the lower end of the rec- tum, and, as in particular, it is not furnished with any sphincter capable of contracting and relaxing itself, as occasion requires, the feces are conti- nually escaping without any knowledge of the cir- cumstance on the part of the patient. Hence, the uncleanly state of the parts around the external opening; and their frequently excoriated fungous state. Some persons in this state, among the number of those whose histories are on record, have made use of a metal box, in which their ex- crement has been received. Schenekius relates the case of an officer, whef was wounded in the belly, and who allowed his feces to escape into a vessel made for the purpose. Dionis makes men- tion of a similar case. What occurred to an in- valid soldier, says this eminent writer, is too sin- gular to serve as an example in practice, since nature alone preserved him, by making the wound of the abdomen serve as an opening for the dis- charge of his feces. The intestine has become adherent to it, and he daily evacuates his excre- ment through this opening. The matter coming away involuntarily, necessitates him to have a tin-box for its reception. Moscati also communicated to the Academy of Surgery, the history of a wounded man, in whom an artificial anus took place, in consequence of a wound in the abdomen below the right hypo- chondrium. His excrement used to be received in a tin-box, fastened to him by a belt. The above surgeon very properly remarks, as rather a singular circumstance in this wound, that it ad- mitted of a leaden cannula being introduced, to which cannula the tin-box was accommodated. Uncleanliness is not the only inconvenience of an artificial anus. Persons have been known to be quite debilitated by the affliction, and even ul- timately to die in consequence of it. This is liable to happen, whenever the intestinal canal is opened very high up, so that the aliment escapes before ehylification is completed, and the nutritious part of the food has been taken up by the lactcals. In this circumstance, the patient becomes emaciated, and sometimes perishes, as Desault had an op- portunity of observing, and examples of which are also recorded by Hoin and Le Blanc. In cases of this description, the matter voided has little fetor, and is frequently sourish. In all in- stances, the matter is evacuated involuntarily, be- cause there is nothing like a sphincter. But, when the opening only interests the lower con- volutions of the ileum, or, what is more frequent, when it has occurred in the large intestines, the danger is less serious, and patients, in this state, are often noticed performing all their functions very well, and, with the exception of colic, to which they are subject, enjoying as good health as they did previously to their having the present disease. In such examples, the matter voided is more fetid, its discharge does not follow so quick- ly its introduction into the stomach, and it is re- tained for a longer time. Many patients, afflicted with an artificial anus, void no feces at all from the rectum; but they occasionally go to the vault, for the purpose of voiding a thick whitish substance, which is the mucous secretion of the portion of the large intes- tines nearest to the anus. Under certain cir- cumstances, the quantity of this mucus discharged is more copious. (Desault, Vol. cit. p. 359.) The most grievous occurrence, to which per- sons with an artificial anus are exposed, is a prolapsus of the bowel, similar to what sometimes happens through the anus, with respect to the rec- tum. The descent of the bowel is sometimes simple, only affecting a portion of the intestinal canal just above or below the opening. On other occasions, the complaint is double, the bowel both above and below the opening being prolapsed. This descent of the intestine forms a tumor, the dimensions of which vary considerably in the dif- ferent subjects in whom it is observed. When the protrusion is caused by the upper part of the intestinal canal, the feces are voided at the ex- tremity of the tumor, and, when the swelling consists of the lower portion of the bowel, the excrement is evacuated at the base of the pro- lapsed part. By observing this evacuation, when the tumor is double, it is easy to know to which end of the intestinal canal each protruded portion belongs. This consequence of an artificial anus is very serious, because it greatly increases the inconvenience, which the patient suffers. Some- times, the tumor is exquisitely sensible; and, oc- casionally, when the eversion of the intestine is considerable, a strangulation is produced, which puts the patient’s life in danger. I apprehend no well informed surgeon of the present day can doubt, that formerly the fre- quency of artificial ani after hernia, was seriously increased by the absurd measures, sometimes adopted for the express purpose of preventing them; and, as Mr. Travers has rightly observed, the cases, reported by the old surgeons, if they prove any thing, prove this: “ that the canal has been very generally restored, when the artificial anus was reckoned upon as inevitable, and that where an officious solicitude had been at work to prevent it, shewing itself in an active interfer- ence, with the arrangements of nature, the case has terminated in artificial anus; so that the event, cither way, has been a matter of surprise to the surgeon. The fear of doing too little, or too much, applies only to the pernicious customs of dilating the stricture, displacing, amputating,