of this organ, there is, in addition to the sym- acquire art i net-ease of energy, and to contract with greater vigour. But, if there had not been retentions of urine, which could be referred to nothin"- but inflammation of the bladder, still analogy might have undeceived us; for an in- flamed muscle is never found disposed to con- tract, and if it be compelled to act, its action is lbvays feeble. Plethoric, bilious subjects, are said to be par- icularlv liable to this species of retention. It is dso frequently occasioned by the abuse of wine, >r other spirituous liquors, heating diuretic drinks, or the external, or internal employment if lyttce. This form of the complaint makes its attack suddenly, and may be known by the fre- [uent desire to make water; the acute pain, in he region of the bladder; pain, which is in- reased by the ell’orts to make water, and which hoots up to the loins, and along the urethra to he end of the glans; by the frequency and aardness of the pulse, and other symptoms of ever; bv the aggravation of the pain, when the vpogastrie region is pressed ; by the easy pass- ire of a catheter into the bladder; by the acute .ain, which is excited by the instrument touch- ;ig the inside of this organ; and by the red, iflammatory colour of the urine. In this ease, the most prompt assistance is leeessary. The urine, which is a source cf acl- , itional irritation, should be drawn off. 'I he .atheter should be introduced with great gentle- • ess, and merely far enough to let its eye pass teyond the neck of the bladder. The inflammation itself is to be counteracted v the most powerful antiphlogistic remedies, rge and repeated venesections; the application c leeches to the perineum, and hypogastric re- ions ; the warm bath; glysters; fomentations ii the abdomen; and cold mucilaginous bever- ges. When the inflammation extends to the her abdominal viscera, attended with hiccough, id vomiting, and continues beyond the sixth ly, the patient’s life is iri extreme danger. 5. Retention of Urine from Hernia of the 'ladder.—An inability to discharge the urine is symptom generally attending hernia of the adder. But, the weakness of this organ is not ways the sole cause of the infirmity; for, the ethra itself makes greater resistance than na- ral to the issue of the urine. As the neck of Me bladder is drawn out of its right position by e portion of this organ, which actually pr#- . tides, the beginning of the urethra also undcr- 1 ncs an elongation, and a change of its eurva- re, by being pressed towards the symphysis of e pubes, and its diameter is likewise diminished, he urine may also be detained in the pouch mposing the hernia, in consequence of the mimmication between this and the rest of the adder being too small, or indirect, or perhaps nn the hernial portion not being compressed the action of the abdominal muscle, or capa- ; of any contraction itself. However, the rest this organ, within the pelvis, can itself rarely pel the last drops of the urine. Its complete ntraction cannot he accomplished without great diculty; and, in the end, it almost invariably flows, that the urine is retained both in the otruded and unprolrudcd portions, V\ hen a retention, arising from a hernia of ■ bladder, is complete, and occurs in both parts URINE, RETENTION OFi 1119 ptoms, common to other retentions produced by weakness of the bladder, a more or less consi- derable swelling in the situation of the hernia. The tumor is unattended with any change of the colour of the skin; is not very tender; and it presents a feeling of fluctuation, sometimes obscure, sometimes very distinct. When the swelling is pressed upon, the desire to make water is excited, or increased, and occasionally a few drops escape from the urethra. As soon as the urine has been drawn off with a catheter, and the patient is put in a posture, in which the protruded portion of the bladder is higher than the rest of this organ within the pelvis, the tumor subsides, and it is some time before it be- comes large again. When the hernia is recent, and the protruded portion of the bladder small and reducible, the part ought to be returned and kept up with a truss. When the part is adherent and irredu- cible, the swelling ought to be emptied by press- ure, and supported with a suspensory bandage. If the hernia could in this manner be made gradually to return into the abdominal ring' again, a truss would afterwards be requisite. Proposals have been made to endeavour to ex- cite adhesive inflammation in the cavity of the protruded part of the bladder by compression, gradually increased, and thus obliterate the pouch, in which the urine lodges Although Desault thought the attempt cautiously made justifiable, he deemed the result very uncertain. Were the retention of urine accompanied with a strangulated state of the protruded blad- der, and the contents could not be pressed into the other part of this organ, a puncture of the swelling with a trocar has been advised. But, if there were an enterocele also present, as often happens, this operation would be attended with risk of injuring the intestine. Hence. Desault preferred opening the tumor by a careful incision, and he even approved of cutting away the pro- truded cyst, if the communication betwixt it and the rest of the bladder were obliterated. For additional observations, I refer to the 2d vol. of the First Lines of Surgery, Ed. 4. - 6. Retention of Urine, caused by displace- ments of the Viscera, of the Pelvis The dis- placements, here signified, are a retroversion, prolapsus, and inversion of the uterus, and a pro- lapsus of the vagina, or rectum. When the intimate connexions of the bladder with the uterus and vagina in tiie female, and with the rectum in the male subject, are considered, it is obvious, that the latter parts cannot he dis- placed, without drawing along with them the bladder; and that, in this state, whatever may be its contractile power, it cannot contract so perfectly as to expel the whole of the urine. To this deficient action of the bladder is nc- cssarily joined an increase of resistance on the part of the urethra; for, the beginning of this canal, being drawn by the bladder, changes its accustomed direction, and such alteration cannot be made without the sides of the tube being pressed together. Thus the retrovevted uterus draws the os tinese above the pubes, and the posterior part of the bladder is displaced, which, in its turn, draws along with it the com- mencement of the urethra, pulls it upwards, and