CANCER. tin' absorbents arc much less liable to be affected. (Mil. cit. 85.) The edges of a cancerous ulcer are hard, rag- ged, and unequal, very painful, and reversed in different ways, being sometimes turned upwards and backwards, and, on other occasions, inwards. I be whole surface of the sore is commonly un- equal : in some parts, there are considerable risings, whilst, in others, there are deep excava- tions. The discharge, for the most part, is a thin, dark coloured, fetid ichor ; and is often possessed of such a degree of acrimony, as to excoriate, and even destroy, the neighbouring parts. In the more advanced stages of the disease, a good deal of blood is often lost from the ulcerated ves- sels. A burning beat is universally felt over the ulcerated surface; and, this is the most torment- ing symptom, that attends the disorder. Those shooting, lancinating pains, which are generally very distressing in the occult state of the com- plaint, became now a great deal more so. Not- withstanding cancerous diseases are not always situated in glandular parts, the situation of such sores affords some assistance in the diagnosis; for, six times as many cancerous affections oc- cur in the lips, and female breasts, as in all the rest of the body together. (B. Bell.') By some of the old writers, the causes of can- cer were referred to the presence of worms, which destroyed the parts, and produced all the local mischief. Strange as this doctrine may appear, one very analogous to it was adopted by the late Dr. Adams. (Observations on Morbid Poisons.) When hydatids found their way into a solid sub- stance, he supposed, that the effect would be can- cer ; and he conjectured, that the success of an operation would depend, in a great measure, upon these animals being confined in a common cyst, for then they could be entirely removed; where- as, if they were unconnected, some of the smaller ones would be likely to remain. The absurdity of this doctrine, and the eccentric reasoning, by which it is supported, make it quite unnecessary here to fatigue the reader with an explanation of it. Concerning the manner, in which these ani- mals produce the symptoms of cancer, we are told, that “ this enlargement of a foreign body in a solid substance, and so extremely sensible, as the breast, cannot but be attended with intensd pain, and frequent inflammation a doctrine not far removed, says Mr. J. Burns, from that taught in the humoral schools, which maintained, that the coagulation, andinspissation of the fluids, distend- ed the follicles of the glands, producing many ca- vities, and much pain. (J. Burns on Inflamma- tion, Vol. 2.) Though hydatids are occasionally found in cancerous tumors, they are not found often enough to make any part of the character of the disease; and they are met with, in cases, in which there is not the least vestige of such dis- order. After cancer had continued some time, it was believed, that the matter was absorbed into the blood, and that all the humours were speedily as- similated. Hence, was explained the fatal and rapid progress of relapses, after an apparent cure. The only effect of absorption, however, is on the lymphatic glands, which intervene betwixt the sore and the heart; for, beyond these, the ab- sorbed matter is changed in its nature and proper- ties. (Bunts.) In many instances, cancer is evidently produ-ll cod by the same causes, which are capable of pro-,1 ducing simple inflammation. It is, however, all general opinion, that cancer arises frequently lfomjl some unknown and mysterious cause, which wei| cannot detect, and which, therefore, has been re- | solved into a constitutional taint. But, as far as! I we know, the constitution is perfectly healthy i| in the commencement of this disease; nor is I there the smallest proof, that it resembles scrofula, !| in depending on any peculiarity of constitution, j| before the causes operate. Blows, bruises, &c. || may give rise to cancer; but, in many instances, (I there is no evident local cause acting directly on || the part. In the breast, cancer frequently com-[I mences, without the interference of any topical || agent. In these cases, however, there is always [| an irregularity, or disappearance of the menses;!I and the affection of the mamma may be supposed || to depend on sympathy between it and the uterus. || Certain it is, that cancer is very frequent about the [I time of life, when the menstrual discharge ceases. (I It is a commonly received opinion, that cancer jl is an hereditary disease, or observed to prevail a i| good deal in particular families. Sir E verard Home | has endeavoured to reconcile this sentiment to the f| doctrine of the disease being at first entirely of a local nature; circumstances, which seem incom- patible : “ It is now universally admitted (says he) that children take after their parents in the U general structure of their bodies, and therefore will be more or less liable to have the different j •tr solids, of which they are composed, disturbed bv j the same causes; and when a violence of any j kind is committed upon them, it ma}r be product- \ ive of the same diseases.— In some families, the venereal disease shall always appear in the fonn of gonorrhoea [?] ; in others again, rarely or never in that form, but, in that of chancre. [?] Stric- tures in the urethra are common in some families: I they have taken place in a father, and all his sons from very slight causes ; such indeed as would not have produced the disease in others. Yet stricture cannot be called hereditary, because it is a local complaint, arising from a local inflamma- tion differing in different people, according to the natural irritability of the parts, which are affected. In this way, and this only, can cancer run in fami- lies, and be an hereditary disease, &c.” ( Ohs. on Cancer, p. 150 ) The observations, which this gentleman has published respecting cancer, are unquestionably some of the most valuable, which- have yet been collected; but, I am doubtful about the correctness of one term, which is frequently met with in his work, viz. cancerous poison. At all events, I am not at present acquainted with any facts, which satisfactorily demonstrate the exist- ence of such virus ; and, from sonic circumstan- ces briefly mentioned in vol. 1 of the 4th edition of the First Lines of the Piactice of Surgery, the reality of a poison of this nature would seem at least questionable. In support of the belief in the existence of a cancerous virus, it has been ob- served, however, “ that we scarcely ever see glands diseased out of the course, which the ab- sorbed matter would naturally take, though they are aflected in this manner in diseases, which can be propagated by irritation.” (Abcrnctliy’s Sicg- Works, Fol. 2, on Tumors, p. 75.) . ' Undoubtedly, cancer is most common in cldo^i persons; but no age is exempt from the disease*