HERNIA. 601 plums of mortified intestine. (for other exam- ples of strangulated hernia in very young in- fants? refer to Goocli s ( hir. 11 oi h s, \ ol. 2? p. 33 ; Laurence on Ruptures, p. 65, Edit. 3; Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. 3, p. 470, #c.) If the patient be adult, and in the vigour of life, the consequences of neglect, or of mal- treatment, are more to be feared than at any other time, for reasons too obvious to need re- lating. The great and principal mischief to be apprehended, in an intestinal hernia, is an in- flammation of the gut, and an obstruction to the passage of the aliment and feces through it; which inflammation and obstruction are gene- rally produced by a stricture made on the in- testine. In very old people, the symptoms do not usually make such rapid progress, both on account of the laxity of their frame, and their more languid circulation; and also that their ruptures are most frequently of ancient date, and the passage a good deal dilated; but then, on the other hand, it should also be remembered, that they are by no means exempt from inflam- matory symptoms; and that if such should come on, the infirmity of old age is no favourable cir- cumstance in the treatment, which may become necessary. (Pott.) If the disease be recent, and the patient young, immediate reduction, and constant care to prevent another protrusion, are the only means whereby it is possible to obtain a perfect cure. “ If the disease be of long standing, has been neglected, or suffered to be frequently down, and has given l'ttle or no trouble, the aperture in the abdominal muscle, and the neck of the hernial sac, may both be presumed to be large; which circumstances in general render imme- diate reduction less necessary and less difficult, and also frustrate all rational expectation of a perfect cure. On the contrary, if the rupture be recent, or, though old, has generally been kept up, its immediate reduction is more absolutely necessary, as the risk of stricture is greater from the supposed smallness of the aperture, and nar- rowness of the sac. If the rupture be very large and ancient, the patient far advanced in life, the intestine not bound by any degree of stricture, but does its office in the scrotum regularly, and no other inconvenience be found to attend it, but what proceeds from its weight, it will in ge- neral be better not to attempt reduction, as it will, in these circumstances, most probably prove fruitless, and the handling the parts in the attempt, may so bruise and injure them as to do mischief.” With respect to the correctness of the advice here delivered, some doubt may be entertained, because, though it would certainly not be right to protract the attempts at reduction, so as to do mischief, it must be equally wrong to make no trial, whether the hernia is reducible or not; and, if reducible, I should say, that it ought to be reduced without delay, and a truss applied. I his opinion, however, seems to agree with the injunctions delivered by l’ott in another place, ns will be seen in the next section of this article. With regard to the contents of a hernia, Mr. I’ott observes, that “ if it be a portion of omen- tum only, and has been gradually formed, it seldom occasions any bad symptoms, though its weight will sometimes render it very trouble- some. But, if it be produced suddenly, by effort or violence, that is, if a considerable piece of the caul by accident slip down at once, it will some- times prove painful, and cause very disagreeable complaints; the connexion between the omen- tum, stomach, duodenum, &c. being such as to render the sudden descent of a large piece of the first sometimes productive of nausea, vomiting, colic, and all the disagreeable symptoms arising from the derangement of these viscera. When the piece of caul is engaged in such a degree of stricture as to prevent the circulation of blood through it, it will sometimes, by becoming gan- grenous, be the occasion of very bad symptoms, and even of death, as I have more than once seen: and thus, as a mere omental hernia, it may sometimes be subject to great hazard. But even though it should never be liable to the just mentioned evil, that is, though the portion of the caul should remain uninjured in the scro- tum, yet it renders the patient constantly liable to hazard from another quarter ; it makes it every moment possible for a piece of intestine to slip into the same sac, and thereby add to the case all the trouble and all the danger arising from an intestinal rupture. It is by no means an uncommon thing for a piece of gut to be added to a rupture, which had for many years been merely omental, and for that piece to be strangulated, and require immediate help. “ An old omental hernia is often rendered not reducible, more by an alteration made in the state of the proiaps'ed piece of caul, than by its quantity. It is very common for that part of the omentum, which passes through the neck of the sac, to be compressed into a hard, smooth, body, and lose all appearance of caul, while what is below in the scrotum is loose and ex- panded, and enjoys its natural texture; in this case, reduction is often impossible, from the mere figure of the part; and I have so often seen this, both in the living and the dead, that I am satis- fied, that for one omental rupture, rendered irre- ducible by adhesions, many more become so from the cause above-mentioned. In the sac of old omental ruptures that have been long down, and only suspended by a bag truss, it is no very uncommon thing to have a pretty considerable quantity of fluid collected: this, in different states and circumstances of the disease, is of different colour and consistence, and seldom so much in quantity as to occasion any particular attention to it; but, on the other hand, it sometimes is so much in quantity as to become an additional disease to the original one. I have more than once been obliged to let it out, in order to remove the inconvenience arising from its weight, and the distention of the scro- tum, which I have also seen become gangrenous by the neglect of this operation. “ If the hernia be of the intestinal kind merely, and the portion of gut be small, the risk is greater, strangulation being more likely to happen in this case, and more productive of mischief, when it has happened : for the smaller the portion of gut is which is engaged, the tighter the tendon binds, and the more hazardous is the consequence. I have seen a fatal gangrene, in a bubonocele, which had not been formed forty-eight hours,