200 ANUS. Sabatier, condemns the employment of tent6 and sponges. (Op. cit. p. 371, 373.) Numerous cases on record furnish abundance of proof, that the feces, after being voided for several months from the wound, produced by the operation for hernia, frequently resume their natural course. Facts of this kind, which in general, may be said to be common where the in- testine is without loss of substance, are not very rare even where more or less of the bowel has been destroyed by gangrene; and many illus- trations of this remark may be found in the writings of Petit, Pott, Le Dran, &c. The greater number of these instances of success, as already stated, were the result of the most simple, unofficious treatment, or rather of the undis- turbed, and very little assisted, efforts of nature. In the radical cure of an artificial anus, the following are the general indications laid down by Desault: 1. To reduce the gut when it pro- trudes, and is everted. 2. To prevent the issue of the feces from the wound, so that they may be obliged to pass on towards the rectum, at the same time that the healing of the external open- ing is to be promoted. 3. To obviate any inter- nal impediments to the passage of the matter into the lower part of the intestinal canal. How the first of these objects is to be accom- plished in the case of greatest difficulty, that is, ‘ when the parietes of the bowel are thickened, has been already explained. Experience proves, says Desault, that the second indication cannot be fulfilled by means of sutures. The best thing for this purpose he represents to be the linen stopper, above spoken of as a means for prevent- ing the protrusion of the bowel. Here it answers the double object of hindering such a protrusion, and filling up the fistulous opening, so as to make the contents of the bowel tend towards the anus. Desault argues, that the surgeon need not be apprehensive of the tent doing harm by keeping the wound from healing. The first aim, he says, should be to determine the feces to take their natural route; and when this has been done by closing the external opening, the tent may be removed, and this opening will spontaneously close. However, when the internal impediment is too great, it must be overcome, ere such treatment can be successful. According to Desault, the most frequent impediment, here alluded to, is the angle formed by the two portions of the in- testine, and it must be enlarged, and rendered less acute, in order that the feces may continue their route. This desirable change he recom- mends to be effected by introducing long dossils of charpie into the two ends of the bowel, and gradually altering their direction so as to bring it into one same straight line. When the dila- tation is sufficient, and the inner angle, or ridge, is effaced, the long dossils need not be continued. The linen tent, with the precaution of not intro- ducing it too deeply, lest it obstruct the course of the feces itself, wiil then suffice. When this plan is skilfully managed, Desault says, there will be a great chance of its succeeding, and its beneficial effect will be denoted by a rumbling in the bowels, and frequently by slight colics. At first, wind is discharged from the rectum, and, soon afterwards, the feces begin to come away. On the contrary, if they should not pass with facility, the colic should become violent, and an accumulation happen in the upper portion of the intestinal canal, the tent must be withdrawn, and the other cause of obstruction be considered, and, if possible, removed. (Vol. cit. p. 365, dife.) In the preceding columns, I have given a full explanation of the impediment, made to the pass- age of the feces into the lower orifice of the in- testinal canal, by the projecting septum, or ridge between the two parts of the bowel, and the mat- ter having to traverse the funnel-shaped mem- branous cavity in quite a semicircular track. A representation of this septum may be seen in Scarpa’s work, Tab. 9, Fig. 1, and also in the sixth plate of Mr. Travers’s Inquiry. In one example, in which this septum was plainly visible in the wound, Dupuytren passed into the orifice of the upper part of the bowel a curved needle, and, passing it through the projecting septum, brought it out again through the orifioe of the lower portion of the gut. Thus, he included a considerable part of the septum in a ligature, which was daily made thicker, with a view of first exciting inflammation in the two layers of this septum, and thus insuring their adhesion together, and his next plan consisted in making a division through the part embraced by the ligature, where- by, the passage for the feces into the lower por- tion of the bowel was made quite free. But, as the section, made by the ligature, was too super- ficial, Dupuytren completed the division of the septum with a knife; but peritonitis and the death of the patient ensued. In another case, this eminent surgeon tried to render the layers of the septum adherent by compressing them between the blades of a pair of forceps of parti- cular construction, and afterwards he effected the division of the part by augmenting the com- pression, by means of a screw, traversing the handles of the instrument. In a case which fol- lowed the operation for bubonocele, attended with mortification of the bowel, Dupuytren began with dilating the outer opening with a bistoury, and, after ascertaining the position of the septum be- tween the two orifices of the bowel, he introduced one of the blades of the forceps into each portion of the gut, and closed the instrument with the screw. The part of the instrument, situated externally to the ridge, or septum, he covered with charpie and a compress. The constriction was soon followed by colic pains, and tendency to vomit, which symptoms, however, wTere quickly removed by fomenting the belly. They recur- red, however, the instrument became loose, and some discharge ensued. On examination, the septum was found to be partially divided. After the breadth of the instrument had been lessened, it was applied again ; but, when the screw was turned, the patient began to suffer such violent pain over the whole of the abdomen, that it was necessary to diminish the pressure; and, as the instrument was afterwards separated from the parts in a fit of vomiting, it was withdrawn. A trial was now made to determine the feces towards the rectum by pressure on the external opening; but the plan could not be endured, and the hinderance to the egress of the intestinal matter was so oppressive, that it was discon- tinued. As the forceps used on the foregoing occasion, did not take sufficient hold of the sep- tum, nor divide it properly, the inst rument was