516 GONORRHOEA. produces a mere secretion of pus, without ulcera- tion. Such were some of the sentiments of the late Mr. Hunter, who was u firm believer in the identity ot the poisons ol syphilis and gonorrhoea; but, this idea and the hypothesis, about the im- possibility ot any spontaneous cure of venereal sores, are now very generally relinquished. SYMPTOMS OF GONORRHOEA. The first symptom is generally an itching at the orifice of the urethra, sometimes extending over the whole glans. A little fulness of the lips of the urethra, the effect of inflammation, is next observable, and soon afterwards a running appears. The itching changes into pain, more parti- cularly at the time of voiding the urine. There is often no pain till some time after the appear- ance of the discharge, and other symptoms ; and in many gonorrhoeas, there is hardly any pain at all, even when the discharge is very consider- able. At other times, a great degree of sore- ness occurs long before any discharge appears. There is generally a particular fulness in the penis, and more especially in the glans. The glans has also a kind of transparency, especially near the beginning of the urethra, where the skin being distended, smooth, and red, resembles a ripe cherry. The mouth of the urethra is, in many instances, evidently excoriated. The sur- face of the glans itself is often in a half excoria- ted state, consequently very tender; and it secretes a sort of discharge. The canal of the urethra becomes narrower, which is known by the stream of urine being smaller than common. This proceeds from the fulness of the penis in general, and from the lining of the urethra being swollen, and in a spasmodic state. The fear of the patient, while voiding his urine, also dis- poses the urethra to contract; and the stream of urine is generally much scattered and broken, as soon as it leaves the passage. There is fre- quently some degree of hemorrhage from the urethra, perhaps, from the distention of the ves- sels, more especially when there is a chordee, or a tendency to one. Small swellings often occur, along the lower surface of the penis, in the course of the urethra. These, Mr. Hunter suspected to be enlarged glands of the passage. They occasionally suppurate, and burst outwardly, but now and then in the urethra itself. Mr. Hunter has also suspected such tumors to be ducts, or lacunae of the glands of the urethra distended with mucus, in consequence of the mouth of the duct being closed, in a manner similar to what happens to the duct leading from the lachrymal sac to the nose, and so as to induce inflamma- tion, suppuration, and ulceration. Hardness and swelling may also occur in the situation of Cow- per’s glands, and end in considerable abscesses in the perineum. The latter tumors break either internally or externally, and sometimes in both ways, so as to produce fistulae in perinaco. A soreness is often felt all along the under side of the penis, frequently extending as far as the anus. The pain is particularly great in erections; but the case differs from chordee, the penis re- maining straight. In most cases of gonorrhoea, erections are frequent, and even sometimes threaten to bring on mortification : as opium is of great service, Mr. Hunter thought, that th*ere was reason to suppose them of a spasmodic nature. rl he natural slimy discharge from the glands of the urethra is first changed, from a fine trans- parent ropy secretion, to a watery whitish fluid; and the lubricating fluid, which the passage naturally exhales, becomes less transparent: both these secretions becoming gradually thicker, assume more and more the qualities of common pus. The matter of gonorrhoea often changes its colour and consistence, sometimes from a white to a yellow, and often to a greenish colour. These changes depend on the increase and de- crease of the inflammation, and noton the poison- ous quality of the matter itself; for any irrita- tion of these parts, equal to that produced in a gonorrhcea, will produce the same appeararlccs. The discharge is produced from the mem- brane lining the urethra, and from the lacunae, but, in general, only for about two'or three inches from the external orifice. Mr. Hunter says, seldom further, than an inch and a half, or two inches at most. This he terms the specific extent of the inflammation. Whenever he had an opportunity of examining the urethra affected with gonorrhcea, he always found the lacunae loaded with matter, and more visible, than in the natural state. Before the time of this celebrated man, it was commonly supposed that the dis- charge arose from the whole surface of the ure- thra, and even from Cowper’s glands, the pros- tate, and vesiculte seminales. But, if the matter were secreted from all these parts, the pus would collect in the bulb, as the semen does, and thence be emitted in jerks; for, nothing can be in the bulbous part of the urethra, without stimulating it to action, especially, when in a state of irritation and inflammation. When the inflammation is violent, some of the vessels of the urethra often burst, and a dis- charge of blood ensues. Sometimes such blood is only just enough to give the matter a tinge. In other instances, erections cause an extravasa- tion, by stretching the part. When the inflammation goes more deeply, than the membranous lining, and affects the reticular membrane of the urethra, it produces in it an extravasation of coagulaLJe lymph, the consequence of which is a chordee. (-See Cnonit r.) Mr. Hunter suspected, that the disease is com- municated or creeps along from the glans to the urethra, or, at least, from the lips of the urethra to its inner surface, as it is impossible, that the infectious matter can, during coition, get as far as the disease extends. He mentions an instance, in which a gentleman, who had not cohabited with-any woman for many weeks, to all appea - ance caught a gonorrhcea from a piece of plaster, which had adhered to his glans penis, in a neccs- imry abroad : the infection is accounted for by supposing, that some person, with a clap, had pre- viously been to this place, and had left behind some of the discharge, and that the above gen- tleman had allowed his penis to remain in con- tact with the matter, till it had dried. Many symptoms, depending on the sympathy of other parts with the urethra, sometimes accom- pany a gonorrhcea. An uneasiness, partaking of soreness and pain, and a kind of weariness, are . every where felt about the pelvis. The scrotum, testicles, perinaeum, anus, and hips, become dis-