298 CATARACT. not require. (Aifaitgsgruude tier Wundarziu Drifter B p. 199.) When I remember, that no cases arc adduced by this author to contradict the rationality of his former sentiments; when I also reflect upon the facts recorded by Maitre-Jan, St. Ives, and Wen- zel ; when I contemplate, that Callisen mentions, as the feeble ground of his adopting the common opinion, that, in one single instance of this de- scription, he was unsuccessful, without particu- larizing from what immediate cause the failure arose; there appears to my mind strong cause to believe, that the advice, not to operate, when there is only one cataract, and the other eye is perfect, is at least a subject which merits further investigation. Warner’s objection is similar to that specified by Richter : he writes, “ the eye, from which the crystalline lens is removed, can- not be restored to a degree of perfection at all equal to that of the sound eye, without the assis- tance of a convex glass:” (Description of the Human Eye and its Diseases, p. 85.) but, is not the power of using both eyes at the same time, even with the inconvenience of being necessitated to employ a glass for the purpose, preferable to being blind of one ? The cases quoted, at all events prove, that confusion in vision, is not al- ways the result of the practice: whether the fact is concordant with the modern theory of vision, is entirely another consideration; if it should /be found incompatible with it, we must infer, that our knowledge of optics still continues imperfect; not that such well attested examples as some alluded to, are unworthy of belief. YY hen there is a full-formed cataract in one eye, and vision is retained in the other, Mr. Travers thinks the postponement of the operation Wrong. “ I am satisfied (says lie) that the cata- ractous eye, if it becomes the subject of an acci- dental inflammation, is strongly disposed to go into amaurosis; and, further, that the retina loses its vigor by the permanent exclusion of light, I speak from repeated observation of the fact. The objection to the operation on the ground of inconvenience, arising from the difference of focus of the two eyes, when one only is the subject of disease, is trivial, and a consideration altogether subordinate : such a defect may always be reme- died by glasses properly adjusted. In several cases of amaurosis, ensuing upon cataract, I have been disposed to regard the change in consistence and volume of the lens, as productive of a de- stroying inflammation; in others, of a partial absorption of the vitreous humor.” (Synopsis of Discuses of the. Eye, p. 313.) For some decided information on the foregoing interesting question, I have referred to Beer ; but be seems not to have entered into its considera- tion at all. The only instance, in which he approaches the subject, is, when he notices the custom of covering the eye, which yet possesses more or less vision, when the other alone has a cataract in a fit state for an operation. (Le/ire von den Augcnkr. B. 2, //. 351 ) The reason, which has induced me to allot so much space for the consideration of the question, whether an operation should be undertaken, when only one eye is affected, is a conviction of the importance of the decision made about it. Were I to judge only from what has been said by wri- ters, I should be confident, that a determination in the negative must be erroneous; but, when iu know, that my experienced and judicious frien«' Mr. Lawrence joins in the belief, that the pract*', ticc is not productive of advantage, the only itx|K; ference, which I venture to make, is, that th<L subject deserves further experiment. YVhen there are cataracts in both eyes, mosip authors are of opinion, that there is no reason, wh4fc one should not be operated upon immediateljBJ after the other. As, however, the ophthalmy in'* likely to be more severe, rr/teris puribus, whprff both eyes are operated upon at the same time* Scarpa, who gives the preference to the needle* disapproves of this mode of proceeding, and as-*l sures us, that, in patients with cataracts in botlqli eyes, his experience has taught him, that it is bvffc no means advantageous to operate upon one im-w mediately after the other; but that it is better talk wait till one eye is well, before any attempt isMl made upon the other. ( Suggia ai Oiservazionijjk p. 255.) On this point, the following is Beer’s senti- p ment:—YVhen cataracts are completely formedw in both eyes, the patient willing, and every thingj| promises a favourable result, both eyes may bal operated upon at the same time. On the con-a trary, when any circumstances are present, whiehlfe render the event of the operation very doubtful^* it is most advisable to make the attempt only one one eye, even though the patient absolutely wish!* more to be done, so that if the first operations should fail, but the complication of this cataracts afterwards change considerably to the advantages of the patient, one eye would still be left for all second more favourable attempt. (Lelire umdrnjfl Angenkr. B. 2, ]>. 350.) Some years ago, it was the common doctrine,i| that no operation should be undertaken for a ca-.« taract, before the patient had attained the age off j docility and reason, and, in a point of view, abs-» tractedly surgical, there can be no doubt of tbei< rectitude of such advice; but, when it is further!' considered, how essential sight is to the acquire-!! ment of education; that youth is the condition ! best adapted for this indispensable pursuit; that when the child’s head is steadily fixed, the needle , admits of being employed; that, with the aid of an assistant, this object can most effectually be m accomplished; that, when the operation is delayed, : the cataract may acquire adhesions; that, persons have not only had cataracts successfully depressed |1 or broken, at a very early age, but with the assist- I ance of asp tail urn ocuti, have even had them ex- tracted, (See Ware's Note, p. 90, of If cnxi’< Treatise,) which is universally acknowledged to be a far more difficult process; and that the pupil of the eye, in a young subject, is nearly as large as is an adult; (Warner’s Description <»/ the Human Eye and its Diseases, p. 34.) I cannot help thinking with Mr. Lucas, thataftera child it old enough to bear an operation, the attempt to cure a cataract with the needle may he proper at any age. Surgeons do not refuse to operate for the harelip, as early as two years of age; they do not wait for docility and reason in the patient, to make him manageable, and sensible of the pro- priety of submitting quietly to the performance of the operation; they render him tractableoj force, and thus they wisely succeed in making per haps, with more certainty, than reliance upon fortitude of any human being would afford, aver)