Cases in Surgery, p. 2/8, Edit. 4. E. C. the end of the stump, with two strips ol stick- <)A) PUN arc the cases in which it is often really proper and necessary to amputate more or less of this organ. However, before a surgeon ventures to do the operation, he ought to be certain, that it is the substance of the penis, which is incurablv diseased; lor, as that judicious surgeon Cullisen remarks, tumors, excrescences, ulcers, and gan- grenous mischief, of the prepuce, sometimes pre- sent appearances, which may lead an inexpe- rienced practitioner to fancy the whole thickness of the part affected with irremediable disorder, while the glnns is actually in a sound state. Hence, whenever the least doubt exists, it is better to remove first the prepuce and skin, in order that the true condition of the glans may be detected. ( Callisen, S//sterna Chirurgice Hodierncc, pars posterior, p. 420, Hafnice, 1800.) The old surgeons, fearful of hemorrhage, used sometimes to extirpate a part of the penis, by tying ligatures round it with sufficient tight- ness to make it mortify, and slough off. Thus, Ruysch once performed the operation. (See Obsv. HO.) The plan, however, is exceedingly painful, and notwithstanding the authority of Heister, has been most properly rejected from modern surgery. wThe amputation may be done in the following manner:—A circular incision is to be made through the skin, about a finger-breadth from the cancerous part. As Callisen observes, it is hardly ever requisite to draw the skin back, be- fore it is cut; because after the corpora caver- nosa are divided, they retract so considerably, that there is always a sufficiency of the integu- ments. (Syst. Chir■ Hodicrnce, pars posterior, p, 421.) As soon, therefore, as the circular in- cision through the skin has been made, the cor- pora cavernosa and urethra are to he cut through, by one stroke of the knife, on a level with the cut edges of the integuments. Sabatier even advises us to draw the skin towards the glans penis, before we employ the knife, so convinced is he of the inutility of saving any of it, and of the inconveniences which may result from its lying over and obstructing the orifice of the urethra. His mode of operating is also particu- larly simple, as he cuts through the integuments and penis together by one stroke of the knife, without making any preliminary circular divi- sion of the skin. (Medecine Operatoirc, T. 3, p. 305, Edit. 2.) The bleeding arteries are now to he immedi- ately tied: the chief are, one on the dorsum of the penis, and one in each corpus eavernosum. When a general oozing from the wound still continues, some recommend ( White, Hey, <Je.) applying sponge to its surface; others (Latta) finely scraped agaric, with a small proportion of pounded white sugar, or gum arabic. Perhaps, however, finely scraped lint, supported with com- presses, would he quite as effectual as any styp- tics, and, certainly, the latter applications should he avoided, if possible, because stimulating, and productive of pain and inflammation. A surer and preferable method of stopping the oozing of blood, and at the same time of healing the wound, might be to bring the skin forward over PEN ing plaster, after introducing a flexible gum ca- theter into the continuation of the urethra, so as to keep its orifice unobstructed, and the urine from coming into contact with the wound. There can he little doubt, that the gum catheter would he better than a silver one. or any metallic cannula, commonly advised for the above pur- poses, because it lies in the passage with less irritation. It is hut justice to Callisen to state, that lie seems to be one of the few good surgi- cal writers, who have particularly recommended in these cases the elastic gum catheter, in pre- ference to that made of silver. (Op. cit. p. 421.) In one case, in which Mr.Hey operated, he made a longitudinal division of the integu- ments, at the inferior part of the penis, so as to make them cover its extremity without pucker- ing, or lying over the orifice of the urethra. The corpora cavernosa, however, do not readily granulate, and unite to the skin by the first in- tention. (Iley, p. 452.) After the first dress- ings are removed, the part should he dressed with the unguentum spermatis ceti, or any mild unirritating salve. In consequence of the introduction of a -can- nula being neglected, Le Dran mentions his having seen the orifice of the urethra become closed a few hours after the operation, so that the patient could not make water. The orifice of the passage could not be discovered without great difficulty. A lancet being introduced at the point, against which the urine seemed to he forced, a quantity of it gushed out, and, as a cannula was not at hand, a sound was introduced till one could he procured. [Traite dcs Oper. de Chirurgie.) Pearson, in his Practical Observations on Cancerous Complaints, has treated of this operation: he particularly advises the skin not to he drawn hack, because, when saved in this manner, it impedes the free exit of the urine. He likewise disapproves of introducing cannulae, as creative of pain, and spasms of the urethra, and unnecessary, since the stream of urine will always preserve the urethra in a permeable state. [P. 103.) When the penis is amputated near the pubes, the remainder shrinks under that bone and within the integuments so far, that it is difficult to tie the arteries. In order to obviate this in- convenience, Schreger recommends the skin to be drawn forwards, and fixed with a band; then to make an incision only deep enough to divide the dorsal arteries, which are to he tied, before the knife is used again. The incision is then to he continued perpendicularly, till the two arteries of the corpora cavernosa are cut These are now to be tied. Then the corpus spongiosum and its two arteries are to he cut through, which last are to be secured. Lastly, the rest of the skin of the penis is to he divided. In this way Schreger amputated a diseased penis, of which only a part, about an inch in length, was sound. [Sharp, Lc Dran, Bertrandi, and Sabatier's boohs on the operations, may be consulted. Also, VEncyclopedic Mcthbdiquc; Partis: Chir. Art. Verge. Hey's Practical Observa- tions in Surgery, p. 445. Pearson on Can- cerous Complaints, p. 103, S[c. Warner's