SCROPHULA. 967 .iegrees into that of elasticity, or fluctuation, and i (Trtii, circumscribed, hardened margin, can be elt round the base of the tumor. The skin is lightly red. If, at this time, an incision, or juncture, be made, either no matter, or very tit- le, is evacuated, the lips of the wound inflame ;:d open, displaying a sloughy-looking substance vitiiin ; and, betwixt this and the skin, a probe :an often be introduced for some way all round, f, however, the disease should have advanced further, then there is very little elasticity in the amor; it is quite soft, rather flaccid, and flue- mates freely; the skin becomes of alight purple colour, and small veins maybe seen ramifying >n its surface. Some time after these appear- ances, the skin becomes thinner at one parti- cular part, and here it is also generally rendered of a darker colour. It afterwards bursts, and discharges a thin fluid, like whey, mixed with a curdy matter, or thick white flocculi. The red- ness of the skin still continues ; but the aperture enlarges as the tumor subsides, and thus a scro- phulous ulcer is produced. The margins of this kind of sore are generally smooth, obtuse, and overlap the ulcer; they are of a purple colour, and rather hard, and tumid. The surface of the sore is of a light red colour; the granulations are flabby and indistinct, and the aspect is of a peculiar kind, which, says Mr. Burns, cannot be described. The discharge is thin, slightly ropy, and copious, with curdy flakes. The pain is in- considerable. When this ulcer has continued for some time, it either begins slowly to cicatrize, or as more frequently happens, the discharge diminishes and becomes thicker. An elevated scab is next formed, of a dirty white, or yellow- ish colour. This continues on the part a good while; and when it falls off, leaves the place covered with a smooth purple cicatrix. Mr. Burns adds, that the preceding description cor- responds to the mild scrophula, or the struma manturta, of the old writers. This gentleman next remarks, that occasionally, especially if a bone be diseased below the ulcer, the sore has a more fiery appearance, the surface is dark- coloured, the margins soft, elevated, and in- flamed, and sometimes retorted. The discharge is watery, the pain very considerable, and the sur- rounding skin inflamed. This has been called the struma maligna. Such overacting scro- phulous sores are most frequently met with over the smaller joints, particularly those of the toes. (Burns.) Sometimes a scrophulous abscess, after it has burst, forms a sinus; the mouth of which ulcerates, and assumes the specific scro- phulous appearance, while the track of the sinus still continues to emit a discharge. Mr. Burns also remarks, that scrophulous swellings are often disposed to subside in winter, and recur on the approach of summer; but, he adds, that this is not an invariable law. The glandular enlarge- ments are very apt to become smaller, in a short time, in one place, while other glandular swell- ings originate with equal suddenness, somewhere in the vicinity of the former ones. Ulcers, also, ver£ often heal, upon the appearance of the dis- ft!tse in other parts. (See Dissertations on Inflammation, Vol. 2, lfcOO.) The glandular swellings, which occur in sy- poilis, says Dr. Thomson, are of a more acute character, than those, which proceed from scro- phula. They arise from the absorption of a specific poison; and they do not, like those of scrophula, admit of a spontaneous cure. Chro- nic swellings of the lymphatic absorbent glands occur also in carcinoma; but these manifest lit- tle, or no disposition to suppuration; they suc- ceed most frequently to carcinomatous indura- tions, or ulcers existing in the neighbourhood of the glands afiected ; and they are accompanied in their progress and growth by a peculiar lancinating pain. (See Thomson on Inflammation, p. 185.) With regard to the proximate cause of scro- phula, medical men may be said to remain, even at the present day, in entire ignorance of it. After the ridiculous theory, referring scrophula to certain humours in the constitution, or che- mical changes in the blood, had been exploded, the opinion gradually arose, that it was a disease of the lymphatic system ; and indeed, that the absorbent glands are often visibly the seat of its attack, when no changes are distinguishable in other textures, is a fact, that admits of no dis- pute. I believe, at the same time, that whoever supposes scrophula to be exclusively confined to the lymphatic system, must have a very imper- fect conception of what is really the case. On the contrary, I fully participate in the sentiments of Professor Thomson, already adduced upon this point, and in the belief of another modern writer, that strumous complaints “are not to be considered as dependent on disease of any par- ticular system, as the lymphatic.” (Lloyd, p. 10.) Such writers as have fixed upon the absorbent vessels, as the particular seat of scrophula, can throw no useful light upon its origin, by follow- ing up the theory, whether they imagine the cause to be obstruction of the vessels and glands; or take up the wild speculation of Cabani, that in scrophula, the mouths of the lymphatics are in a state of increased activity, while the vessels themselves are in a state of atony; or the doc- trine of Soemmerring, that scrophula depends upon a passive relaxation and dilatation of the absorbents; or the hypothesis of Girtanner, that these vessels are in a state of increased irrita- bility. The idea of obstruction being the cause, has of late years been much on the decline; and that the convolutions of lymphatic vessels, form- ing the glands, are quite pervious, and may readily be injected, even when diseased, is a fact, first demonstrated by Soemmerring, which must weigh heavily against .this opinion. Of the ex- citing causes, very little is also known. Mr. John Hunter remarks, that “in this country, the tendency to scrophula arises from the cli- mate, which is in many a predisposing cause, and only requires some derangement to become an immediate cause, and produce the whole dis- ease.” (7'rcatise on the Venereal Disease, p. 2G.) The disease is remarked to be most com- mon in females; in cold, damp, marshy coun- tries, and in all places, near high mountains, where the temperature is subject to great vicis- situde. “ Nous voyons presque toujours, (says Alibert) que les tumeura ct les ulceres sc rou- vrent au printemps pour sc fermer ensuite vers la canicule.” (Nosol. Naturelle, p. 44;).) In the work quoted the last but one, Mr. Hunter takes notice of slight fevers, colds, small- pox, and measles, exciting scrophulous diseases. He observes, that in particular countries, and in