FRACTURES. 485 Essays, Part 2, p. 34.) A swelling is observ- able at the upper ami front part of the thigh, al- ways proportioned to the retraction, of whidi it appears to be an effect. ' The projection of the great trochanter is al- most entirely effaced. Directed upwards and backwards, this eminence becomes approximated to the crista of the os ilium; but, if pushed in the opposite direction, it readily yields; and, when jt has arrived at its natural level, the patient be- comes capable of moving his thigh. The knee is a little bent. Abduction of the limb always occasions acute pain, and it is no- ticed by Mr. A. Cooper, that the rotation in- wards is particularly painful, because the broken extremity of the bone then rubs against the cap- sular ligament. (Vol. cit. p. 33.) If, while the hand is placed on the great trochanter, the limb is rotated on its axis, this bony projection may be felt revolving on itself, as on a pivot, instead of describing, as in the natural state, the segment of a circle, of which the neck of the femur is the radius. This symptom, which was particularly noticed by Desault, is very manifest when the fracture is situated at the base of the neck, less so when at its middle; and it is not very per- ceptible when the breach is near the head of the bone. In the rotatory motions, the lower frag- ment, rubbing against the upper one, produces a distinct crepitus, which, however, is not an in- variable symptom, as Larrey would lead one to suppose. As Mr. A. Cooper observes, no crepitus can be felt while the patient is lying upon his back with the limb shortened; but, if the leg be drawn down, it may sometimes be distinguished, espe- cially when the limb is rotated inwards. (Sur- gical Essays, Part 2, p. 34.) The toes are usually turned outward; a posi- tion which Sabatier considers as the inevitable effect of the fracture, though Pare and Petit no- ticed, that it did not constantly occur. Two cases, adduced by these illustrious surgeons, were not credited by M. Louis; but the experience of Desault fully confirmed the possibility of the limb not being always rotated outwards. And, as Mr. A. Cooper has remarked, three or four hours generally elapse before the turning of the limh outward is rendered most obvious by the fixed contraction of the muscles. (Surgical Es- says, Part 2, p. 32.) The position of the toes outward is commonly, and 1 believe correctly, imputed to the rotator muscles. Bichat conceived, however, that if this doctrine were true, such position ought al- ways to exist; and he reminds us, that ali the muscles, which proceed from the pelvis to the trochanter, are, with the exception of the quad- ratus, in a state of relaxation, by the approxi- mation of the femur to their point of insertion; and that the contracted muscles would not allow the foot to be so easily turned inward again. Hence, Bichat thought it probable, that the weight of the foot itself may pull the limb into the position, in which it is commonly found. On the other hand, it is remarked by Mr. A. ooper, that any one may satisfy himself, that the rotation of the limb outwards is in part ow- mg to the muscles, by feeling the resistance, which is made to rotation inwards, which resist- ance, however, he thinks may in gome measure depend upon the length of the portion of the neck of the femur, which remains attached to the trochanter major, and rests against the ilium. (Surgical. Essays, Part 2, p. 32.) It follows from the preceding account, that none of the symptoms of a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone are exclusively characteristic; that each, considered separately, would be in- sufficient, and that their assemblage can alone throw light on the diagnosis. In every instance of doubt, however, the safe course must be pur- sued, and the apparatus applied, which, though useless, is not dangerous, should the injury not exist, and is indispensably necessary when it does. (Desaultpar Bichat, T. 1, p. 219—226.) It was at one time supposed, that fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone could not be cured, without some shortening of the limb, and lame- ness. Ludwig, Sabatier, and Louis, broached this doctrine, and imputed the circumstance to the destruction of the neck of the bone. That this sometimes happens has been well ascertained. A late surgical visitor to Paris informs us, that, in several specimens, which he examined in dif- ferent museums, whether imperfect union, or no union at all, had followed the fracture, this ab- sorption of the neck of the bone had taken place to a great extent, and in some to so great an ex- tent, that the articulating surface of the bone, which plays in the acetabulum, rested between the trochanters, consolidated to the body of the bone by ligamentous union, and the thickening of the surrounding parts, whilst all the intervening neck of the bone was absorbed. (See Sketches of the Medical School if Parts, r,y J. Cross, p. 90.) M. Roux has also nearly always found the neck of the femur shortened and deformed after its re- union. (Parullele de lu Chir. Angloise avec la C/iir. Franpoise, p 178.) Desault, however, is said to have rarely met with instances of lameness from such a cause in his practice. A question, that has lately been much agitated, is, whether reunion by bone ever follows cases, in which the fracture is entirely within the capsule, and the head of the bone insulated, except at its attachment to the aaetabulum by the round liga- ment ? The French surgeons decide in the af- firmative, and pretend actually to demonstrate the fact by preparations in their museums. M. Roux, indeed, was good enough to send over a specimen to Mr. A. Cooper, with the hope of producing conviction ; but, this eminent surgeon still remains unconvinced, because the traces of reunion in the preparation appear to him to in- dicate a sort of fracture, where the internal frag- ment still retained some connexion with the cap- sular ligament. (Boux, Parullele eleja (fhirurgie Avgloise, Ssc, p. 179, 180.) In.fact, it was a case, in which the fracture had happened at the junction of the cervix with the trochanter. And Mr. A. Cooper in his last valuable publication distinctly states, that, in all the examinations, which he has made of transverse fractures of the cervix jemoris, within the capsular ligament, he has never met with a bony union, or oj any which did not admit of motion of one bone upon the other. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p 39.) By this eminent surgeon, the want of bony union i* re- ferred to the fragments not being in contact, and duly pressed against each other, and to the little action in the head of the bone separated