WOUNDS. 538 GUN-SHO' tation of the stump should be performed, in order to procure the patient an even, smooth incision, instead of an irregular, jagged, and highly dan- gerous wound. As the limb has commonly suf- fered a violent concussion, is almost bereft of sense, and power of motion, and the Lone fre- quently has a fissure extending some way upward, the amputation is sometimes recommended to be done, if possible, above the nearest joint. Were the operation not done, this kind of injury would require large and free incisions, for the extraction of foreign bodies, the shortening of projecting muscles and tendons, and the discharge of abscesses; and, as these incisions are likely to occasion at least as much irritation as amputa- tion itself, without being productive of equal good, the avoidance even of pain cannot be urged as a reason against the practice. The occasional healing of such wounds only proves, that it is not altogether impossible, in certain instances, to effect a cure without amputation. The surgeon can the more readily make up his mind to amputate, as in this case, the operation does not occasion the loss of a limb. As for the place of the incision, no one would be justified in amputating above the knee, when the limb is injured at the foot or ankle. The skin has been violently stretched and lacerated ; the muscles have been ruptured and irregularly torn away; the tendons and aponeuro- ses lacerated; the nerves and vessels divided and forcibly dragged ; lastly, the bones broken and smashed to a greater or lesser extent. These first effects are followed by a general, or partial commotion ; by a kind of torpor in the injured part, and a good way above the wound; by a painful trembling in the remains of the member, an event, that is singularly afflicting to the pa- tient ; and by a local swelling preceding the erethismus, which quickly shews itself. The hemorrhage, says Baron Larrey, an accident much more to be apprehended, than has been supposed, often comes on a few moments after the injury, and, if prompt succour were not afforded, would put a period to the patient’s existence. “ I can even declare, that, had it not been for the activity of the train of flying surgical carriages, (<•mlniLmces lolaun*) bymeans of which the wounded have always been dressed upon the field of battle, many soldiers would have perished from this accident alone.” If the operation is not speedily done, pain commences, fever occurs, and the functions of the system become disordered; the irritation then increases, and convulsive motions take place. If the patient should not be a victim to these first symptoms, gangrene of the stump follows, the fatal consequences of which it is ex- tremely difficult to prevent. After this short exposition, it is easy to see, that, in this case, amputation ought to be prac- tised immediately, and to delay the operation, and merely apply simple dressings, would be affording time for the preceding accidents to arise. At Strasburgh, during the bombardment of the fort of Kell, in 179-'. three volunteers, says Baron Larrey, had limbs shot ofl by the explo- sion of shells; one, an arm ; another, a fore- arm ; and the third a leg. They were conveyed to the hospital for the wounded in that town, which was superintended by M. Boy. Several days were suffered to elapse before the amputa- tion was performed: not one of the patients escaped. At Mentz, after the retreat from Frankfort, several of the wounded, who had had limbs shot off, did not have amputation done till some time afterwards, and riot one of them recovered. At Nice, after the taking of Saourgio, two am- putations were practised at the hospital, No. 2; one of the fore-arm, the other of the arm, nine or ten days after the receipt of the injuries: both the patients died. At Perpignan, Baron Larrey visited two sol- diers, on whom amputation had been done, seven or eight days after the receipt of gun-shot inju- ries in the action of the 14th of July, 1 794. One had had a leg shot off and the other, his right arm. Notwithstanding Larrev’s utmost care, he could not save their lives: one died of teta- nus ; the other, of gangrene. In the month of August, 1805, two can- noniers of the guards, in discharging the artillery, had each a hand shot away, and all the forepart of their bodies burnt. These were the two men, whose office it was to charge the gun. At the moment, when they had just rammed down the wadding on the cartridge, a spark, that had been left unextinguished, from the neglect to keep the touch-hole closed, set fire to the powder: the ramrod was violently repelled by the explo- sion, together with every thing that was situated in front of the charge. The right hand of one of the cannoniers was completely torn off-, between the two phalanges of the carpus, and thrown more than two hundred paces. The counter shock even threw the man down into the ditch of the square of the Hotel des Invalides. The left hand of the other cannonier was torn away, together with the fore-arm of the elbow-joint, and also forced to a considerable distance. The tendons and muscles sustained vast injury, and the worst symptoms would have occurred, if amputation had not been instantly performed. In one case, amputation was done at the wrist; and, in the other, at the lower third of the arm. The two operations were followed by complete success, although the burns upon the face and chest, in both the patients, were serious and ex- tensive. Stroud cose. When a body, propelled by- gunpowder, strikes a limb, in such a manner, as to smash the bones, violently contuse, lace- rate, and deeply tear away, the soft parts, ampu- tation ought to be immediately performed. If this measure be neglected, all the injured parts will soon be seized with gangrene: and besides, as Larrey has explained, the accidents, which the gravity of the first case produces, will also here be excited. It is only doing justice to the me- mory of M. Faure to state, that this second case was one, which he also particularly instanced as demanding the immediate performance of ampu- tation. (See Pnx tie I'Acod. hoy ole de Chi- rurgie, 7. 8, p. 2:5, Edit. 12mo.) Third ca*e. If a similar body were to carry away a great mass of the soft parts, and the prin- cipal vessels of a limb, (of the thigh, for instance), without fracturing the bone, the patient would be in a state demanding immediate amputation; for, independently of the accidents, which would originate from a considerable loss of sabstanc** r »t fi- ll it h h t I it i 4 i 4 i < i i 1 V