SCIIOPHULA. 973 | nd tumors existed; and, under this treatment, | ie says that he found the swellings melt away ke ice. What is extraordinary, every sort of I umor yielded to cicuta. But, (as Dr. Thomson I udiciously remarks) universal success is always I me of the most suspicious circumstances, which I an be mentioned in the history of the effects i iroduced by any new remedy. (Lectures, <|-c. ( i. 199.) Dr. Cullen frequently employed hem- ock, and sometimes found it useful in discussing •ibstinate swellings; but, he says, it also fre- juently disappointed him, and he never saw it dispose scrophulous ulcers to heal. With regard to mercury, we have already no- iced, that calomel was much employed by Mr. 'White. Some have exhibited the sublimate; others the acetite of mercury. All these prepara- ions have been at times conjoined with cicuta, mtimonv, &e. Calomel is, perhaps, the best aiercurial preparation in scrophulous cases; but, mercury, given internally with any view of ex- citing a salivation, is justly deemed hurtful by all the best practitioners. As an alterative, and . an occasional purgative, it is undoubtedly a good medicine for strumous patients. Mercury was much disapproved of by the celebrated Cullen, as a medicine for scrophula. As a distinguished . Professor observes: “ From the great apparent similarity of the symptoms, progress, and seats of scrophula, to those of syphilis, and from the well known effects of mercury in curing syphilis, it need not seem strange, that medical men should have been a little obstinate in their attempts to obtain benefit from the use of mercury in scro- 1 phula. These expectations are in general aban- doned, and mercury is now given for the cure of s scrophula as a purgative only. A long continued, . or improperly administered course of this me- diciue, has often been known to aggravate all the symptoms of scrophula; and, in many in- stances, to excite these symptoms in persons, in whom they did not previously exist.” (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 19-!, 195.) Mr. Burns thinks the nitrous acid has some effect in promoting the suppuration of scrophu- lous glands, and tumors, and disposing ulcers to heal. He says, two, or three drams may be . given every day, for a fortnight; but, if in this time, it should do no good, its employment ought to be discontinued The mineral acids, diluted with water, (says Professor Thomson,) are often used with views similar to those, which guide us in the employment of tonic remedies. Their medicinal powers appear to be nearly the same; but, the nitric acid has of late been preferred, particularly in the scrophulous affections, which are sometimes induced by the action of mercury. (Lectures, <frc. p. 197.) The pills containing carbonate of soda, (see PUulec,) and the different soda waters, sold at the shops, have repute, for their good effects on scrophulous constitutions, and diseases. A spi- rituous infusion of gentian, into six ounces of which are put thirty-six grains of the carbonate of soda, or the same quantity of the carbonate of ammonia, is a medicine highly spoken of by -tieherand for scrophulous cases. (Notnpr. C/iir. T.\, p. 184, Ed. 4.) • otassa, in large doses, with mercurial fric- tions, is the practice lately extolled by Mr. Farr ; but, it appears to me, that mercury and potassa had been repeatedly tried, long before this author delivered his sentiments to the public ; and that such practice cannot be entitled to be called a method for the eradication of the disease. (Sec Farr on Scrophula, Pro. Land. 1820.) According to Mr. Burns, eight, or ten drops of hydrosulphuret of ammonia, given thrice a day, are useful, in irritable strumous ulcers. The breathing of oxygen gas has been proposed; but, of this plan I know nothing from experi- ence, and, as it now makes less noise in the world, than formerly, I conclude that either its useful- ness has been exaggerated, or the difficulty of the practice is too great to allow of its extensive adoption. The sentiments of Dr. Cullen are decidedly against antimony. As a modern writer observes, no great dependence seems ever to have been placed in the use of diaphoretic medicines for the cure of scrophula. The different preparations of antimony, indeed, have been occasionally ad- ministered ; but, chiefiy in cutaneous affections, supposed to be of a scrophulous nature. Guai- acum, sarsaparilla, sassafras, and mezereon, singly, and in combination, have all been sup- posed to be useful in the cure of scrophula; but they are now seldom given with this view, ex- cept in cases of scrophula combined with sy- philis, or excited by the too free and injudicious use of mercury. (Thomson's Lectures, §y. p. 199.) With respect to Alibert’s practice, amongst the vegetable bitters, he prefers the hop, bur- dock, gentian, and bark. He seems to have no confidence in specifics, like hemlock, belladonna, aconitum, &c. Neither does he express himself favourably of alkaline medicines, the muriate of ammonia, and the muriate of barytes. How- ever, he praises the good effects of steel medi- cines on enlarged glands. He affirms, that he has seen most good derived from external means ; aromatic fumigations in an apparatus prepared by the chemist Darcet. Wbat he calls scro- phulous eruptions, he covers with a strong solu- tion of the nitrate of silver. Swelled glands he rubs with the antimonial ointment. He com- mends also change of air, and the avoidance of low damp places; and speaks favourably of sea- bathing, sea voyages, sulphureous mineral waters, and particularly of the good effects' derived from the solar warmth. (See Nosol. Nat. p. 449.) The local treatment, preferred by Mr. White, has been already described. I have only a few words to add, concerning this part of the subject. Dr. Cullen states, that, in his practice, he had very little success in discussing incipient scro- phulous tumors by topical applications ; and that a solution of the saccharum saturni, though sometimes useful, more frequently failed. Dr. Cullen found the aqua ammoniac acet. not more successful. “ Fomentations of every kind (says he) have been frequently found to do harm ; and poultices seem only to hurry on a suppuration. I am doubtful, if this last be ever practised with advantage; for scrophulous tumors sometimes spontaneously disappear, but never after any de- gree of inflammation has come upon them ; and, therefore, poultices, which commonly induce in- flammation, prevent that discussion of tumors, which might otherwise have happened.” Even