786 LITHOTOMY. manner, which is also Mr. John Bell’s,'is as de- serving of recommendation as any. The methods of operating with a knife, as practised by Klein, and- Langonbeck, I shall not here repeat, as they were described in the last edition of the First Lines of Surgery, accompa- nied with many valuable practical observations made by these judicious and skilful surgeons. That the performance of lithotomy with a knife, when the operator has the assistance of a proper stall, cannot be difficult, may be inferred from there being no particular difficulty in the method, even when no staff at all is employed. In the spring of the year 1814, when atOuden- bosch in Holland, I was requested by Serjeant Ryan, of the 1st Foreign Veteran Battalion, to see his little boy, about four years old, who was troubled with symptoms, which made me imme- diately suspect, that there was a stone in the bladder. As I had no sound, I introduced into this viscus a small silver catheter, which di- stinctly struck against a calculus. Without taking the instrument out again, I determined to per- form lithotomy with a common scalpel. Indeed, no other mode could be adopted, as we had nei- ther staff, gorget, nor lithotomy instruments of any kind. After making the external part of the incision in the common way, I found, that the catheter afforded me no guidance. I there- fore withdrew it, and dissected deeply by the side of the prostate gland, till the fore-finger of my left hand passed rather beyond it. The scalpel was then plunged into the bladder, behind this gland, under the guidance of my left fore-finger, and with the edge turned towards the urethra. The necessary division of the prostate and neck of the bladder was then made by cutting inwards and upwards in the direction of the rest of the wound. With a small pair of ordinary dressing forceps, a calculus, rather larger than the end of the thumb, was easily extracted. This operation was done at the Military Hospital, in the pre- sence of Dr. Shanks, of the 56th regiment, and several other medical officers. Not a single bad symptom ensued, although the army unexpect- edly moved into the field three days afterwards, and the child travelled about for some time in a baggage cart, in an exposed and neglected state. The wound was consequently rather longer in healing than usual; but, this was the only ill effect. The little boy in the end completely recovered. Of late years, many surgeons have chosen to perform lithotomy with several kinds of beaked scalpels. The practice, indeed, is still gaining ground. Mr Thomas Blizard’s knife is one of the best. Its blade is long, straight, and nar row, and, like the gorget, is furnished with a beak, by means of which it admits of being con- ducted along the groove of the staff into the bladder, after the external incisions have been made. The staff is then withdrawn, and the operator has now the power of making the inci- sion through the prostate and neck of the bladder downwards and outwards to any extent, which the parts will allow, or the case require. This is one of the principal advantages, which beaked long narrow knives have over gorgets, which, after their introduction, cannot be further used for the enlargement-of the wound. I he narrow knife will also cut more safely downwards and outwards, than any gorget; nor is it subject to the serious danger of slipping away from the staff! and going we know not where; because the moment its beak and extremity have entered the bladder, the staff is no longer necessary, as the proper extent of the blade will then readily pass in without the aid of any conductor at all. I need hardly observe, also, that, in this method, we have nothing like the perilous, and violent, thrust of the gorget, which, in the event of a little unsteadiness in the operator’s hand, or of any fault either in the position of the staff, or the di- rection of the gorget, will do irremediable and fatal mischief. A FEW GENERAL REMARKS ON THE BEST MODE OF MAKING THE INCISION IN THE LATERAL OPERATION : AND SOME REFLECTIONS ON THE PRINCIPLES INCULCATED BY PROFESSOR SCARPA. Perhaps, of all the great operations in surgery, lithotomy is that, in which great awkwardness, mortifying failures, and dangerous blunders, are most frequently observed. Many a surgeon, who contrives to cut off limbs, extirpate large tumors, and even tie aneurismal arteries, with eclat, cannot get through the business of taking a stone out of the bladder in a decent, much less, a masterly style. This fact is so familiarly known in the profession, and its truth so often exem- plified, that I may well be excused the unpleasant task of relating in proof of it all the disasters, which have come to my own personal knowledge. But, I must take the liberty of remarking, that, in this branch of surgery-, a great number of in- dividuals do not profit byr these instructive les- sons of experience. The more they see of litho- tomy, the more theyr are convinced of its dan- gers ; yet, too often, instead of studying the causes of ill success, theyr merely derive from the examples before them, a suspicion of the un- skilfulness of the operator, or some discouraging conjectures about the difficulties of the opera- tion. The establishment of certain principles to be observed in lithotomy*, appears the most probable way of diminishing the frequency of the accidents and failures of this common operation. If these principles are not violated, it is of less consequence what instrument is employed, for the surgeon may do nearly the same thing with an ordinary dissecting knife, a concealed bistoury, a. beaked scalpel, or a well made gorget. After the very opposite principles, and differ- ent methods of cutting for the stone, which are explained in the preceding columns, as preferred by different surgeons, I think it may be useful to ofier a few general observations on the proper direction and size of the incision. These points, which are of the highest practical consequence, in regulating the principles, which ought to be observed in lithotomy, are far from being settled, as must be plain to every body who recollects that Desault, Mr. John Bell, Klein, and Lan- genbeck, have recommended a free opening; Scarpa, Calliscn, and others, a small one; that Mr. Abernefyy and Scarpa employ gorgets, which