(ESOPHAGUS. 8 60 to be divided. With, two blunt books, the lips of the wound are to be kept open; and, on sepa- rating the cellular substance at the side of the trachea with the aid of the finger and a few strokes of the knife, the oesophagus will be seen, lhe lower part of this tube is then to be opened, and the wound in it enlarged with a pair of curved blunt-pointed scissars, a director being employed, if any difficulty arise. With a small pair of curved forceps, similar to those used for the extraction of polypi, the foreign body may then be removed. According to Guattani, the wound will serve for the extraction of the foreign body, whether this be situated above, or below it, and he asserts, that the opening will even be useful, when the extraneous substance has passed so far down, that it cannot be taken out, us it can now be easily pushed into the stomach. Guattani lays great stress on the usefulness of endeavouring to unite the wound, and adverts to his experiments, proving that, in animals, wounds of the oeso- phagus heal very favourably. If, says he, the vein, which brings back the blood from the in- ferior parts of the thyroid gland, and runs into the subclavian, happen to be cut, the hemorrhage may be stopped with a dossil of lint held upon the aperture in the vein during the operation, and afterwards if the bleeding continue, com- pression, or a ligature, is to be employed. The recurrent nerve, if at all likely to be touched with the knife, is to be cautiously drawn a little out of the way with the blunt tenaculum. Guattani also particularly insists upon opening the oesophagus as near as possible to the trachea, especially at its upper part, where the artery, which goes from the subclavian to the thyroid gland, some- times runs. When the foreign bod)' requires an ample opening, and particularly when the thyroid gland is enlarged, Guattani approves of separating this part a little from the side of the trachea. (See Mem. de l'Acad. Chir. T. 3, 4to.) There can be no doubt, that Guattani’s di- rections for finding the oesophagus are very good; but his chief defect is representing the place for the incision as being always the same, whereas it ought to be partly regulated by the situation of the foreign body itself. However, his advice to make the incisions close to the trachea appears to me more judicious, than that recently delivered by Boyer, who directs them to be made through the cellular substance between the sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus mus- cles, and the omo-hyoideus, (see Traite desMul. Chir. T. 7, p. 193, 8no. Paris, 18 > 1.) in which method, he quits the trachea, which is the best guide to the oesophagus, and approaches unneces- sarily the large blood-vessels of the neck. Yet, I agree with Boyer, respecting the general impro- priety of attempting cesophagotomy, when the si- tuation of the foreign body is not indicated by any prominence in the neck, and the prudence of de- termining the place of the incision in a great measure by such projection. Boyer also cautions the operator to let his incisions always be made in such manner, as to leave unhurt the trachea and recurrent nerve at the inner edge of the wound; the carotid and internal jugular vein at its outer edge; the superior thyroideal vessels, above; and the inferior ones, below. With this view, the cellular substance is to be slowly divided layer by layer, and the blood repeatedly absorbed with a sponge; but, if any vessel bleed freely, it j is to be immediately tied. After the operation, an elastic gum catheter should be passed from one of the nostrils down the pharynx and oesophagus, by which means, : the requisite food and medicines may be injected into the stomach, without any risk of their pass- ing through the incision, and retarding the cure. But, a still stronger motive lor this practice is ' the avoidance of the convulsive action of the ! muscles in deglutition; a source of very hurtful i disturbance to the parts. Before the advantages j of this contrivance were duly appreciated, the patient, for the first week, was allowed to swallow scarcely any thing, and was kept alive with broths injected up the rectum. (ESOPHAGUS, Foreign Bodies in the. There are few situations, in which foreign bodies lodge more frequently, than in the cesophagus; a fact, explicable by the consideration of the function of this tube, the nearness of part of which to the windpipe at the same time accounts for the frequent danger of suffocation, when a substance, above a certain size, is lodged in it. The lodgment often takes place at the lower part of the pharynx, or beginning of the cesophagus, and sometimes just above the diaphragm; but very rarely in the intervening portion of that canal. Foreign bodies, liable to lodge in the oesopha- gus, are not only articles of food, such as pieces of crust, or meat imperfectly chewed, the yolk of an egg, boiled very hard, and not masticated, a chesnut, or small apple, &c.; but also various substances, which are accidentally swallowed either alone, or together with the food, such as pieces of bone, stones, pins, needles, buttons, pieces of money, knives, forks, scissars, spoons, keys, &c. These latter articles, by lodging in the pharynx, or oesophagus, may occasion very bad and fatal symptoms, and, if forced down into the stomach, may produce effects of a not less serious description. Hence, an immediate at- tempt should always be made to extract them. For this purpose, the fingers may be employed, and, if they will not reach far enough, a pair of long curved forceps should be used. But, no instrument seems better calculated for cases, in which the body lodged in the oesophagus is not too wide, than the urethra-forceps, invented by Mr. Weiss, of the Strand, and used by Sir Astlev Cooper for the removal of calculi, under a certain size, from the bladder. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. II.) Nooses of wire, and bunches of thread with a multitude of nooses, fastened upon the end of a probang, and a piece of sponge, fixed on the extremity of the same instrument, or on that of the strong wire stilet of a long elastic gum catheter, and various other contrivances have been made with the view of extracting different articles from the cesophagus. The bunch of thread seems well calculated for catching hold of small substances, like fish-bones, needles, &c.; and the sponge, when expanded with moisture and withdrawn, will sometimes bring up articles, which on its introduction, it had passed in its dry and diminished state. When the stomach is full, the excitement of vomiting has sometimes answered; but, if the foreign body be sliaqr and pointed, the method is not free from danger, and, instead of relieving jr » ■