255 CESAREAN OPERATION. :ico, published about the middle of the four- eentli century. Here, however, the practice is nly spoken of, as proper after the death of the mther, and is alleged to have been adopted only t sueli a conjuncture in the case of Julius lesar. (See Cap. de Extractione Fcetus.) /i„0; who was born towards the close of the fteenth century, takes no notice of the Cresa- ?an Operation; and Pare,who greatly improved ie practice of midwifery, thinks this measure nly allowable on women, who die undelivered. ')e Horn inis Generations, cap. 31.) Rousset, ho was contemporary with Pare, collected the istories of several cases, in which the operation said to have been successfully performed, id. after the publication of these, the subject c cited more general interest. Bv the CtC'itrean Operation, is commonly un- erstood that, in which the foetus is taken out of e uterus, by making an incision into the abdo- en, and through the parietes of the womb. . he term, however, in its most comprehensive •nse, is applied to three different proceedings, is sometimes employed to denote the incision, hicli is occasionally practised in the cervix uteri, order to facilitate delivery; but, this particular ethod is named the 1 aoinal Ccesarean Opera- i/;, for the purpose of distinguishing it from the rarer, which is frequently called, by way of .ntrast, the Abdominal. Ccesarean Operation. 'ith these cases, we have also to class the inei- iii, which is made in the parietes of the abdo- m, for the extraction of the foetus, when, in- ;ad of being situated in the uterus, it lies in the city of the peritoneum, in consequence of the oture of the womb, or in the ovary, or Fallo- n tube, in consequence of an extra-uterine nception. This last operation, as Sabatier has narked, is a species of gastrotomy. How- r, as it is analogous to the abdominal and filial Caesarean Operations, it can be most iveiiicntly treated of in the present article. VAGINAL C-iESAUEAN Ol’EUATION. Disease, malformation, or a preternatural po- on of the cervix uteri, may render this practice ispensable. A scirrhous hardness of the neck the uterus is the most frequent. When the oration is such, that the cervix cannot become ited, and the patient is exhausting herself with tv-ailing eflbrts, the parts should be divided in eral directions. This has been successfully te under various circumstances. Cases have i met with, in which the cervix uteri pre- ed no opening at all, and yet the preceding ration proved quite effectual. Such is the ex- ile, which Dr. Simson has inserted in the third ime of the Edinburgh Essays. A woman, y years of age, became pregnant, after rcco- ng from a difficult labour, in which the child remained several days in the passage. She been in labour sixty hours ; but the neck of womb had no tendency to dilate. Dr. Sim- percciving that its edges were adherent, and no opening betwixt them, determined to •tise an incision, with the aid of a speculum _ The bistoury penetrated to the depth of an inch, before it got quite through the sub- 'co, which it had to divide, and which seemed aril as cartilage. As the opening did not dilate, in the efforts which the woman made, it became necessary to introduce a narrow bistoury on the finger, in order to cut this kind of ring in various directions. There was no hemorrhage; and the only additional suffering, which the pa- tient encountered, arose from the distention of the vagina. As the child was dead, Dr. Simson perforated the head, in order to render the deli- very more easy. Strong convulsions, at the moment of partu- rition, may create a necessity for the vaginal Cmsarean Operation. These sometimes subside, as soon as the membranes are ruptured, and the waters discharged, so as to lessen the distention of the womb. However, if the convulsions were to continue, and the cervix uteri were sufficiently- dilated, the child should be extracted with the forceps, or byr the feet, according to the kind of presentation. On this subject, Baudeloque has recorded a fact, which was communicated to the Academy of Surgery, by Dubocq, professor of surgciy at Toulouse. The woman was forty- years of age, and had been in convulsions two days. She was so alarmingly pale, that she could scarcely be known. Her pulse was feeble, and almost extinct, and her extremities were cold, and covered with a clammy perspiration. The edges of the opening, which was about as large as a crown piece, felt, as it were, callous, and hardly had this aperture been dila- ted, when delivery took place spontaneously. The child was dead. The symptoms were ap- peased, and the woman experienced a perfect re- covery. Another case, in which the indurated cervix uteri was successfully divided, is recorded byr Lambron, a surgeon at Orleans. (See Diet, dis Sciences Med. T. 23, p. 21)7.) A considerable obliquity of the neck of the womb, combined with a pelvis, of small dimen- sions, may also be a reason for the performance of the vaginal Cresarean Operation. Not that such obliquity always occasions that of the rest of the uterus ; nor is the neck of this viscus invari- ably directed towards that side of the pelvis, which is opposite to its fundus, although this is some- times the case. In the latter circumstance, as the contractions of the uterus do not produce a dilatation of its cervix, which rests upon the bones of the pelvis, the adjacent part of that organ is dilated and pushed from above downwards, so as to present itself in the form of a round smooth tu- mor, without any appearance of an aperture. Such a case mayr have fatal consequences. Baudeloque furnishes us with an instance. A woman, in her first pregnancy, not being able to have the at- tendance of the accoucheur, whom she wished, put herself under the care of a midwife, who lot her continue in labour pains during three days. When the accoucheur came, on being sent for again, the child’s head presented itself in the va- gina, covered with the womb. The portion of the uterus, which included the foetus, was in a state of inflammation. The os tincae was situated back- ward, toward the sacrum, hardly dilated to the breadth of a penny piece, and the waters had been discharged a long time. The patient was bled, and emollient clysters were administered. All sorts of fomentations were employed. She was laid upon her back, with her pelvis consider- ably raised. The accoucheur had much difficulty in supporting the head of the child, and keeping