WOUNDS. 1221 “ Sir A. Cooper repeated the experiments of Duverger, who had succeeded, in uniting by su- ture, the divided intestine of a dog, including in it a portion of the trachea of a calf. In place of the uninterrupted suture, three distinct stitches were inserted. On the sixteenth day, the animal was killed, and the union was complete.” (P. 123.) Here are two facts, proving that a wounded intestine may be united, though the suture was not such, as to maintain the divided surfaces in contact, in the whole of their circumference. Sir Astley Cooper then made the experiment, without including the foreign substance. The animal recovered, being a third fact, tending to prove, that the absolute contact of every point of the ends of the divided bowel is not essential to the cure. (See A. Cooper on Inguinal and Congenital Hernia. Chap. 2.) After dividing the small intestine of a dog, Dr. John Thomson, of Edinburgh, applied five interrupted stitches, at equal intervals, the ends of the ligatures were cut off, and the external wound was closed with a suture. This animal! did riot die of the operation, and, when he was afterwards killed, it appeared, that the threads had made their way into the interior of the in- testinal canal. Dr. Thomson repeated this ex- periment, and did not kill the animal till six weeks afterwards, when the same tendency of ligatures to pass into the bowels, and be thus discharged, was exemplified. These two last cases make five, in proof that the absolute contact of every part of the ends of a divided bowel is not essential to prevent effu- sion, or the consequences of the wound from proving fatal; and several other experiments were made by Dr. Smith, of Philadelphia, who employed four stitches, with similar success. As far then as the major!ty of such facts ought to have weight, we are bound to receive the conclusions of Mr. Travers as incorrect, and unestablished. I am only surprised, that Mr. Travers himself, who has cited the particulars of all these last experiments, did not perceive, that they swuck directly at his own inferences. They are not only irresistible arguments against Mr. Travers’s conclusion, that the union of a divided bowel requires the contact of the cut extremities in their entire circumference; but, they are a plain denial of another position, advanced by this author, viz. that wounds, amounting to a direct division of the canal, are irreparable, and, there- fore, invariably fatal. With respect to the species of suture being of secondary importance, provided it secure the complete contact of every part of the everted ends of the divided bowel, I regret, that Mr. Travers has omitted to institute experiments, in order to shew, that any such suture can be prac- tised, and, if he has the ingenuity to apply it, whether the result would be for, or against, the conclusions, which he has formed. The fact of the sutures always making their way into the ca- vity of the bowel, and being thus got rid of, ap- pears to me highly interesting, since it shews the safety of cutting away the ends, instead of leaving them hanging out of the external wound, so as to create the usual irritation and inconveniences of extrancons substances. It seems, that Mr. Ben- jamin Bell first recommended cutting the ends of the ligatures away, and reducing the bowel in this state into the abdomen, as, he says, a considerable part of the remainder of the ligature will fall into the cavity of the gut. (System of Surgery, Vol. 2. p. 128, edit. 7.) We have seen, that the experiments of Dr. Thomson confirm the observation, and those, instituted by Mr. Tra- vers, tend to the same conclusion. According to the latter writer, the following is the process, by which a divided intestine is healed, when sutures are employed. “ It com- mences with the agglutination of the contiguous mucous surfaces, probably, by the exudation of a fluid, similar to that, which glues together the sides of a recent flesh wound, when supported In contact. The adhesive inflammation super- venes, and binds down the everted edges of the peritoneal coat, from the whole circumference of which a layer of coagulable lymph is effused, so as to envelope the wounded bowel. The action of the longitudinal fibres, being opposed to the artificial connexion, the sections mutually recede, as the sutures loosen by the process of ulcerative absorption. During this time, the lymph de- posited becomes organized, by which further re- traction is prevented, and the original cylinder, with the threads attached to it, is encompassed by the new tunic. “ The gut ulcerates at the points of the liga- tures, and these fall into its canal. The fissures, left by the ligatures, are gradually healed up; but, the opposed villous surfaces, so far as my observation goes, neither adhere, nor become consolidated by granulation, so that the inter- stice, making the division internally, is probably never obliterated.” (Travers on Injuries of the Intestines, $c.p. J 28.) Notwithstanding I have carefully read all the arguments, adduced by Mr. Travers in favour of stitching a divided bowel at as many points as pos- sible, I still remain unconvinced of the advantage of such practice, for reasons already suggested. If a case were to present itself to me, in which a bowel, partly cut through, protruded, I should apply only a single suture, made with a small sewing-needle, and a piece of fine silk. If the bowel were completely cut across, I should have no objection to attach its ends together by means of two or three stitches of the same kind. I co- incide with Mr. Travers, respecting the advan- tage of entting off the ends of the ligature, in- stead of leaving them in the wound, as I believe he is right, in regard to the little chance there is of the injured intestine receding far from the wound, and if the ends of the ligature are then of no use in keeping the bowel in this position, they must be objectionable, as extraneous sub- stances. As confirming some of the foregoing ob- servations, I would refer to the valuable writings of Scarpa, and those of Dr. Hennen. The parts of the former, to which I allude being contained in the last edition of the First Lines of Surgery, need not here be repeated. “ The older prac- titioners, (says Dr. Hennen,) were very much averse from leaving any thing to nature in cases of abdominal injuries, although their universal employment of sutures ought to have convinced them, how much she could bear with impunity ; for, there can be very little doubt, that their uniform performance of the operation of ga-