OPHTHALMY. 881 dency to prolong and increase the morbid tability of the eyes than keeping them un- essarilv long in a dark situation, or covered h compresses, and bandages* Dr. Vetch has such a dislike to the plan of -ering the eye, that lie never suffers a shade •hi worn, conceiving, that, in conjunctival in- flation it always does a great deal of harm preventing a free exposure of the eye to a iperate atmosphere. (On Diseases of the e,p. 17.) Besides the common remedies for mnamma- i, there are some very powerful means, which y be employed for the relief of particular ces of ophthalray with great effect. Thus, as latter author has observed, by means of loseiamus, belladonna, and stramonium, (See J.ladonna) the important structure of the iris y be secured from injury, at the same time t other measures are adopted for checking the lamination. Such medicines may even be died, as a mechanical force, for detaching any rent adhesion. (Op. cit. p. 18.) The uses of the argentum nitratum are also *y extensive: “ the slightest application of it substauce (savs Dr. Vetch) can often remove i highest degree of morbid sensibility to light, i instantaneously restore quietude to the or- n; it can prevent incipient changes, and ob- ite advanced ones ; and may also be used in ution, as a valuable sedative.” The mention of so stimulating and active a istance as the nitrate of silver having a sedative ect may excite surprise; but the fact is un- • estionable, and well illustrated in the treatment several diseases. (See Cornea and Iris.) i another modern writer correctly states, it is markable that even the weaker forms of medi- ted lotions irritate, and none more than such contain opium. The relief, afforded by odyne fomentations in general, is very various. I have known them (says Mr. Travers) ob- ited to as painful, and patients inquire if they :ght not substitute warm water for the aqueous lotion of opium, and infusions of poppy and unlock. The same observation applies espe- ally to painful herpetic cutaneous affections, id acutely irritable ulcers. Upon these a solu- >n of opium often acts as a stimulant, and igments pain, while the lunar caustic solution often assuages it.” At the same time, Mr. ravers admits, that exceptions occur, and that * has met with cases, “ in which no other ap- ication than the aqueous solution of opium >uld be borne.” He has also known the vapour laudanum afford the most marked relief to the ritability to light accompanying strumous ihthalmy. (Synopsis of the Diseases of the !JC y J) 2ol.) According to Dr. Veteh, it is impossible, in Iises of conjunctival ophthalmia, to possess an 'plication of greater efficacy, than the undiluted pior plumbi subacetatis, for altering the morbid >d purulent state of tiiat membrane; he also de- tribes nicotiana, externally employed, as a nnr- »nc and astringent, as being of singular service i lessening the pain, and tumefaction. (V. 19.) lowerer, the discordance amongst the best 'riterj, about the effects of favourite local np- lications, would lead me to enjoin rather atten- on to the leading principles of the treatment, than confidence in the superior elnhc Eyelids particular drug, or composition. Atflier> very local applications should vary in the er lower stages of purulent ophthalmy; no single onerder always be right. If Beer had delivered no observ;n tions of greater importance, than his condemna- tion of Bates’s camphorated lotion, and his praise of other styptic stimulating applications, his re- marks would be of little value; but, as he has pointed out the different stages of purulent oph- thalmia in a very correct manner, and adapted his remedies to these various states of the dis- ease, his information comprehends scientific prin- ciples, and becomes peculiarly interesting. The same praise belongs also to Dr. Vetch’s ob- servations on purulent ophthalmy, who, in some points, both of the description of the complaint and its treatment, has surpassed Beer. Of the different Kinds of Ophthalmy. Beer’s classification is very comprehensive. Ac- cording to the situations, in which ophthalmic inflammation first originates, he proposes a ge- neral division of it into three forms, as suggested by some of the older writers; viz. inf animation of the eyelids, or blepharophthalmitis ; inflam- mation of the parts between the orbit and globe of the eye; and, lastly, inflammation of the eyeball itself, or ophthalmitis. He observes, however, that these distinctions seem to assign a considerable extent to the original seat of the affection; for, the expression, inflammation of the eyelids can only denote a case, in which the disorder begins at once in all the parts, compos- ing the eyelids. In the same way, inflammation of the parts between the eyeball and orbit appears to signify, that all those parts constitute the original sphere of the complaint; while inflam- mation of the eyeball seems to denote that the disorder has begun at once in all the textures, of which this organ is composed. But, fortunately, as Beer remarks, the extent of the original seat of genuine idiopathic inflammation of the eye is but seldom thus considerable; being mostly restricted to particular textures, from which it first spreads further only when neglected, or injudiciously treated. Hence, certain subdivisions of the complaint are necessary; and, accordingly, Beer subdivides inflammation of the eyelids, first, into the erysipelatous, or blephar ophthal- mitis erysipelatosa, which commences in the integuments of these parts. Secondly into that, which originates at the edges of the palpebral, in the conjunctiva lining these parts, and the Meibomian glands, and which Beer denominates glandular inflammation of the eyelids, or blephar ophthalmitis gland ul osa; a case, de- scribed by writers under an infinite number of names, and often confounded with complaints of a totally different nature. Thirdly, when the effects of the inllammation are confined to a small portion of the eyelid, it constitutes the disease, termed the inflammatory stye, or hordeolum, which Beer says is rarely a simple inflammation, but complicated with a serophulous habit; a proposition, which, I think, will not receive any credit in England. Fourthly, as there is one more form of inflammation of the eyelids. Beer gives it the name of the erysipelatous swelling of the cornea of the eye, or auchylops crysipc- latosa, which affects the skin of the inner eanthus, immediately over the lachrymal sac. The name,