154 ANEURISM. sinuated the point of my fore-finger behind it, and then pressed the artery betwixt myfingerand thumb. Dr. Lang now felt the aneurism behind ; the pulsation had entirely ceased, and the tumor was disappearing. I examined the vessel in the pelvis; it was healthy and free from its neigh- bouring connexions. I then passed a ligature behind the artery, and tied it about half an inch from its origin. The tumor disappeared almost immediately after the operation, and the wound healed kindly. About the end of the third week the ligature came away, and in six weeks the woman was perfectly well.” This is the first example, in which the internal iliac has been tied. The operation was not at- tended with much difficulty, nor pain, and not an ounce of blood was lost. Mr. Stevens had no difficulty in avoiding the ureter, which, when the peritoneum was turned inwards, followed it. Had it remained over the artery, Mr. Stevens says, that he could easily have turned it aside with his finger. (See a par- ticular history of this case in Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 422, &c.) A second instance, in which the internal iliac artery was tied, was some time ago communicated to the public. The operation was performed by Mr. Atkinson, of York, on account of a glutaeal aneurism. The following are a few of the par- ticulars, as related by this gentleman : Thomas Cost, aged 29, presented himself at the York County Hospital, April 29th, 1817. He was a tall, strong, active bargeman, not corpulent, but very muscular. He was enduring great pain from a large renitent, pulsating tumor, situated under the glutaeus of the right side; an obvious aneurism. It had existed about nine months, and was the consequence of a blow from a stone. In a consultation with Dr. Lanson and Dr. Wake, the necessity of the operation was determined upon, and it was performed on the 12th of May, without any material difficulty, or interruption, except such as was the consequence of the divi- sion of, and bleeding from, the small muscular arteries. Having got command of the internal iliac artery within the pelvis, (which, says Mr. Atkinson, required the complete length of the fingers to accomplish), it was tied. Sufficient proof of its being the identical artery was repeat- edly obtained, by the pressure upon it stopping the pulsation, and causing a subsidence of the tumor. Dr. Wake, Mr. Ward, and all the pupils, were quite assured of the circumstance. The artery being then tied, the pulsation of the swell- ing entirely ceased. Some delay in placing the ligature arose from the needle not being suf- ficiently pliable; but, for future operations of this kind, Mr. Atkinson very properly recommends the ligature to be put round the artery by means of an instrument, resembling a catheter, the wire of which has a little ring at its extremity, and can be pushed out some way beyond the end of the tube. The patient went on tolerably well for some time after the operation ; the pulse never ex- ceeded 130, and after a time sunk to 85 or 90. He became exhausted, however, partly by the discharge, and partly by hemorrhage, and died on the 31 st of May, about nineteen days after the operation. In the dissection, the cavity, on the external part of the peritoneum, in the situa- tion of the incision, was completely filled with coagulated blood. “ The ligature, on moving a part of this (blood) with a sponge, readily fol- lowed it, and, without doubt, had been disen- gaged for some days.” The internal iliac, which appeared to have been tied, had separated about an inch and a half from the bifurcation with the external iliac. By “ separated” I conclude Mr. Atkinson means that the upper part of the inter- nal iliac was separated from the continuation of the same vessel. (See Medical! and Phys. .hair, vol. 38, p. 267, fyc.) Although this gentleman has not given a very clear account of some part of the dissection, and he has also omitted to de- scribe the place of his external incision, or the exact parts, which he divided in the operation, yet, I think that all the circumstances of the case taken together, leave not the smallest doubt of the internal iliac artery having been actually tied. The complete stoppage of the pulsation, as soon as the ligature was applied, and the testimony of several respectable practitioners, who were pre- sent, seem, indeed, to remove all ambiguity. The profession, I think, are much indebted to Mr. Atkinson for this important communication, which was in some measure required, in order to confirm Mr. Stevens’s similar case, as, it is well known, that some distinguished anatomists and surgeons in this metropolis have expressed very strong doubts of the practicable nature of the operation. In a modern publication are given a few parti- culars of a case, which was supposed to be an aneurism of the glutceal artery, and cured by means of pressure, 9 light vegetable diet, gentle laxatives, and digitalis. (See Trans, of the Fel- lows, Sfc.of the King's and Queen's College »f Phil- s'dans in Ireland, vol. 1, p. 41, Si'n. /. uh. 1817.) From the very imperfect account here given of the tumor, it is impossible to form any conclu- sion, respecting its nature. Sandifort has recorded an instance of an aneu- rism of the internal iliac artery itself. (See Tab idee Anatomical, Sfc. Traced it Ohs. de Ancu- rysmate Arterhc Iii tea, internee, rarijrc isclvadis Nervosce causa, fob Lugd. 1804.) ANEURISMS OF THE BRACHIAL ARTEBY. Surgical writings contain many histories of aneurisms in the bend of the arm, produced by the puncture of the brachial artery in venesec- tion, or caused by a deep wound inflicted at the bend of the arm, along the inner side of the hu- merus, or in the axilla. Such cases must indis- putably be formed by effusion Although Mo- rand, &c. have found, that, along with aneurisms, caused by a wound of the brachial artery, the diameter of the vessel is sometimes unusually enlarged through its whole length, above the seat of the tumour, this enlargement, which is verv rare, might have existed naturally, before the*puncture occurred. Even were it frequent, such an equable longitudinal expansion of the tube of the artery could not explain the formation of the aneurismal sac in the bend of the arm, along the inner side of the humerus, or in the axilla, after wounds. (Scarpa, p. 160 ) The proximate cause of these cases may in- variably be traced to the solution of continuity in the two proper coals of the artery, and the