4 B UkINARY cording to the excellent description, lately given of this calculus by Dr. Marcet, it is commonly whiter and more friable, than any other species. It sometimes resembles a mass of chalk, leaving a white dust on the fingers, and separates easily into layers, or laminae, the interstices of which are often studded with sparkling crystals of the triple phosphate. At other times, it appears in the form of a spongy and very friable whitish mass, in which the laminated structure is not obvious. Calculi of this kind often acquire a very large size, and they are apt to mould themselves in the contracted cavity of the blad- der, assuming a peculiarity of form, which Dr. .'Marcet has never observed in any of the other species of calculi, and which consists in the stone ’. terminating, at its broader end, in a kind of pe- i duncle, corresponding to the neck of the bladder. ,The chemical composition of the fusible calculus, is a mixture of the triple phosphate of magnesia .’and ammonia, and of the phosphate of lime. These two salts, which, when separate, are infu- sible, or nearly so, when mixed together and urged by the blow-pipe, easily run into a vitreous .globule. The composition of this substance, ' says Dr. Marcet, may be shewn in various ways. Thus, if it be pulverized, and acetic acid poured upon it, the triple crystals will be readily dis- solved, while the phosphate of lime will scarcely bbe acted upon; after which the muriatic acid will rreadily dissolve the latter phosphate, leaving a small residue, consisting of lithic acid, a portion of which is always found mixed with the fusible c calculus. It is also remarked by Dr. Marcet, that many if the calculi, which form round extraneous bodies in the bladder, are of the fusible kind. ■And. the calculous matter sometimes deposited between the prepuce and glans is found to be of the same nature. 6. Mulberry Calculus, or Oxalate, of Lime s mostly of a dark brown colour, its interior >eing often grey. Its surface is usually uneven, iresenting tubercles more or less prominent, fre- [uentlv rounded, sometimes pointed, and either •ougli or polished. It is very hard, difficult to aw, and appears to consist of successive unequal avers : excepting the few stones, which contain . proportion of silica, it is the heaviest of the Hirinary concretions. Though this calculus has een named mulberry, from its resemblance to dial fruit, yet, as Dr. Marcet has observed, there re many concretions of this class, which, far com having the mulberry appearance, are re- rarkably smooth and pale coloured, as may be een in plate 8, fig. 6. of that gentleman’s essay, tocording to Mr. Brande, persons, who have oided this species of calculus, are much less able to a return of the complaint, than other atients, who discharge lithic calculi. (Phil, "raus. 1808.) With regard to chemical characters (says I’ro- ?ssor Murray), it is less affected by the applica- on ot the usual re-agents, than any other cal- dug. The pure alkaline solutions have no feet upon it, and the acids dissolve it with great iffieulty. When it is reduced, however, to fine Bowder, both muriatic and nitric acid dissolve it owlv, 1’he solutions of the alkaline carbonates 'compose it, as Fourcrov and Vauquelin have ■ iserved; and this affords us the easiest method CALCULI. I 105 of analysing it. The calculus in powder being digested in the solution, carbonate of lime is soon formed, which remains insoluble, and is easily distinguished by the effervescence produced by the addition of weak acetic acid, while there is obtained in solution the compound of oxalic acid with the alkali of the alkaline carbonate. From this, the oxalic acid may be precipitated by the acetate of lead, or of barytes; and this oxalate, thus formed, may be afterwards decomposed by sulphuric acid. Another method of analysing this calculus is by exposure to heat: its acid is decomposed, and by raising the heat sufficiently, pure lime is obtained, amounting to about a third of the weight of the calculus. According to Fourcroy and Vauquelin, the oxalate of lime calculus contains more animal matter, than any other. This animal matter appeared to them to be a mixture of albumen and uree. The com- position of a calculus of this species, analysed by Mr. Brande, was; oxalate of lime 65 grains; uric acid 16 grains; phosphate of lime 15 grains; animal matter four grains. 7. The Cystic Oxide Calculus is small, and very rare. It was first described by Dr. Wol- laston. (Phil. Trans, for 1810.) In external appearance, it bears a greater resemblance to the triple phosphate of magnesia, than any other sort of calculus. However, it is more compact, and does not consist of distinct laminae, but appears as one mass confusedly crystallized throughout its substance. It has a yellowish semi-transparency, and a peculiar glistening lustre. Under the blow-pipe, it gives a singu- larly fetid smell, quite different from that of lithic acid, or the smell of prussic acid. In con- sequence of the readiness, with which this spe- cies of calculus unites both with acids and alka- lies, in common with other oxides, and the fact of its also containing oxygen (as is proved by the formation of carbonic acid by distillation), Dr. Wollaston named it an oxide, and the term cystic was added from its having been originally found only in the bladder in two examples. Dr. Marcet, however, has subsequently met with no less than three instances of calculi formed of cystic oxide, all of which were unquestionably of renal origin. 8. Alternating Calculus. Lithic strata fre- quently alternate with layers of oxalate of lime, or with the phosphates. Sometimes also the mul- berry alternates with the phosphates, and, in a few instances, three, or even four species of cal- culi occur in the same stone, disposed in distinct concentric laminae. On the comparative fre- quency of these and other varieties of calculi, Dr. Prout’s work contains valuable information. 9. Compound Calculi, with their Ingredients intimately mixed. Under this title, Dr. Mar- cet comprehends certain calculi, which have no characteristic feature, by which they can be con- sidered as distinctly belonging to any of the other classes. He observes, that they may some- times be recognized by their more or less irregu- lar figure, and their less determinate color ; by their being less distinctly, if at all divisible into strata ; and by their often possessing a consider- able hardness. By chemical analysis, confused results are obtained. (Sec Essay on the Client, and Med. Hist, of Calculous Disorders, p. 90.) 10. Calculi of the Prostate Gland. The