114 ANEURISM striction, which the sac next to the artery, pre- sents externally, points out exactly the limits, beyond which the internal and muscular coats ot the aorta had not been able to resist the distention, and where of course they have been ruptured. The partition, which may always be seen dividing the tube of the artery from the aneurismal sac, and which is lacerated in its middle, consists of nothing else than the remains of the internal and muscular coats of the rup- tured artery. By carefully dissecting the proper coats of the ruptured aorta in its situation, and com- paring them with the cellular substance forming the sac, Scarpa affirms, that the truth of the preceding statement may be indisputably de- monstrated. When an incision is made lengthwise in the side of the vessel opposite the rupture, its proper coats are found either perfectly sound, or a little weakened and studded with earthy points, but, still capable of being separated into distinct layers. On the contrary, in the opposite side of the aorta, where the rupture is, the proper coats are unusually thin, and are only separable from each other with difficulty, or even not at all; they are frequently brittle, like an egg- shell, and are disorganised and torn at the place where they form the partition between the ruptured artery and the mouth of the aneurismal sac. Continuing to separate these coats, from within outwards, we arrive at the cellular sheath surrounding the aorta. This sheath being much thickened in large aneurisms, and very adherent to the subjacent muscular coat of the artery at the place of the constriction of the sac, is very apt to be mistaken for a dilated portion of the vessel itself. But, even in such cases, we may at last separate it, without laceration, from the tube of the artery, above and below the injury, and, successively, from the muscular coat, as far as the neck of the aneurism. Then it is clear, the muscular coat does not pass beyond the partition, separating the cavity of the artery from that of the aneurismal sac, over which it is not prolonged, but terminates at the edge of the rupture like a fringe, or in obtuse points. Errors are more apt to occur, in consequence of the aorta and sac being both covered by the pleura, or peritoneum. The portion of the aorta, within the pericar- dium, being only covered by a thin reflected layer of this membrane; such layer may also be lacerated, when the proper coats give way, and blood be effused into the cavity of the pericar- dium. Examples of this kind are related by Walter, Morgagni, and Scarpa himself. In the latter instance, on making an incision into the concave part of the aorta, opposite the tumour which had formed under the layer of the pericar- dium, which had also burst by a small aperture, its internal coat, corresponding to the base of the swelling, was quite rough, interspersed with yellow hard spots, and actually ulcerated for the space of an inch in circumference. The preparation is preserved in the museum at Pavia. But, all other parts of the aorta having, be- tween them and the pleura and peritoneum, a cellular sheath of a stronger and more yielding nature, which allows itself to be distended into a sac, and being strengthened internally, by poly- pous layers, and, externally, by the pleura or peritoneum, oppose for a long while the fatal effusion of blood. Scarpa believes, that what he calls the slow, morbid, steatomatous, fungous, squamous, dege- neration of the internal coat of the artery is more frequently the cause of its bursting, than violent exertions of the whole body, blows, or an increased impulse of the heart. This kind of diseased change is very common in the curva- ture, and thoracic and abdominal trunks, of the aorta. In the incipient state of such disease, the internal coat of the artery loses, for a certain space, its beautiful smoothness, and becomes irregular and wrinkled. It afterwards appears interspersed with yellow spots, which are con- verted into grains, or earthy scales, or into steatomatous, and cheese-like concretions, which render the internal coat of the artery brittle and so slightly united to the adjoining muscular coat, that, upon being merely scratched with the knife, or point of the nail, pieces are readily detached from it, and, on being cut, it gives a crackling sound, similar to the breaking of an egg-shell. This ossification cannot be said to be proper to old age, since it is sometimes met with in subjects not much advanced in life. The whole of the side of the artery, in that part which is occupied by the morbid affection, is, for the most part, hard and rigid, sometimes soft and fungous, and, in most cases, the canal of the artery is preternaturally constricted. In the highest degree of this morbid disorganiza- tion, true ulcerations are found on the inside of the artery, with hard and fringed edges, fissures, and lacerations of the internal and fibrous coats of the artery. Having presented the reader with an abridged account of the most important remarks made by Scarpa, in support of the doctrine he defends, I now annex his conclusions. 1. That this disease is invariably formed by the rupture of the proper coats of the artery. 2. That the aneurismal sac is never formed by a dilatation of the proper coats of the artery, but, undoubtedly, by the cellular sheath, which the artery receives in common I with the parts contiguous to it; over which cel- lular sheath the pleura is placed in the thorax, ; and the peritoneum in the abdomen. S. That if the aorta, immediately above the heart, appears | sometimes increased beyond its natural diameter, this is not common to all the rest of the artery, and when the aorta, in the vicinity of the heart, yields to a dilatation greater than natural, this dilatation does not constitute, properly speaking, the essence of the aneurism. 4. That there are none of those marks regarded by medical men as characteristic of aneurism from dilatation, which may not be met with in aneurism from rup- ture, including even the circumscribed figure of the tumour. 5. That the distinction of aneur- ism into true and spurious, adopted in the schools, is only the production of a false theory; since observation shews, that there is only one form of the disease, or that caused by a rupture of the proper coats of the artery, and an effusion of ar- terial blood into the cellular sheath, which sur- rounds the ruptured artery’. (See Treatise on Aneurism, t-y A. Scarpa, trans. by J. H- R isharl> Edin. 1808).