284 CAT When the symptoms subside, says Petit, they, who are little versed in practice, are apt to fancy the abscess cured; but, they are sometimes mis- taken. 1 lie matter is not always sufficiently near the surface to be felt, and, in this circumstance, the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is so tense, that it hinders the fluctuation from being distinctly felt. Indeed as the matter finds a lodgment under this aponeurosis, following the course of the sheath of the vessels, there is rea- son to fear, that it may lead to additional inflam- mation and suppuration, and extend up the du- plicature of the peritoneum to the loins. In these cases, the abscess occasionally makes its way outward, and the dressings are inundated with matter; but, if this should not happen quickly, the sooner the tumor is opened the bet- ter. The opening ought unquestionably to be made wherever the fluctuation is plainly dis- tinguishable ; but, as Petit has remarked, the tension of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle makes the undulation of the matter less readily and plainly perceptible, than if the ab- scess were only in the fat. Therefore, in order to avoid mistake, this surgeon advises us to feel at the abdominal ring, as, in general, the pus can be more readily felt here, than in other si- tuations. If matter is felt, and no resistance is experienced, Petit advises the finger to be passed into this opening, and in case the seat of the ab- scess should be found to be under the aponeu- rosis, we are recommended to divide, with a probe pointed bistoury, the skin and fat imme- diately covering the ring, then to separate the fibres of this aperture, as it were, without cutting them. (See Truiid des Maladies Chirurgieales, Tom. 2, p. 529—530.) No doubt, this surgeon meant, that the division of the tendon ought to be made in the direction of its fibres. Consult Le Bran’s Operations. Sharp's Ope- rations of Surgery, chap. 10. Pott on the Hydro- cele, Sfc. Sabatier, de la Med. Oper. Tom. 1. Bertrandi Traite des Opir. de Chirurgie, chap. 1 1. CEuvres Chirurgieales de Dcsuidt par Bichat, lorn. 2, p. 449. Lurrey Memoires de Chirurgie Milituire, Tom. 3, p. 423, SCc. Pearson on Can- cerous Complaints. J. L. Petit, Traite des Ma- ladies Chirurgieales, Tom. 2, p. 519, Sfc. C. Bell's Operative Surgery, Vol. 1. Richerund’s Nosographie Cliirurgicale, Tom. 4, p. 281, <3fc. Pd it. 2, <|-r. A long account of the particular sentiments of several eminent surgeon sis lobe found in Rees’s Cyclopaedia, art. Castration. Rovx, Pa- rallele de la Chirurgie Angloise avec la Chirurgie Franfaise, p. 119, dj-c. Lawrence in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6, p. 196—197. Sketches of the Me- dical Schools of Paris, byJ. Cross, p. 139, <?fc. CATAPLASMA ACETI. Made by mix- ing a sufficient quantity of vinegar with either oatmeal, linseed meal, or bread-crum. When linseed is employed, it is best to add a little oat- meal, or bread-crum, in order to keep the poul- tice from becoming hard. The vinegar poultice is generally applied cold, and is principally used in cases of bruises and sprains. CATAPLASMA ACETOS.E. Son-el Poul- tice. ty. Acclosie Ibj. To be beaten in a mor- tar into a pulp. CATAPLASMA ALUMINIS. Made by stirring the whites of two eggs with a bit of alum, till they are coagulated. In cases of chronic CAT and purulent ophthalmy, it has been applied tj the eye, between two bits of rag, and it has heel J praised as a good application to chilblains, whicj ,i are not broken. CATAPLASMA HYNES. (Malt.) ft Purina; Bynts, Spumes Ceiemsue, q. s. This V | applied to cases of gangrene and ill-conditione) extending sores. It is used in instances simila) to those, in which the cataplasma fermenti is em] J ployed, and, by giving out carbonic acid gas, i; j supposed to operate as a gentle stimulus, and at \ a corrector of fetid effluvia. CATAPLASMA CARBONIS. Made bj mixing powdered charcoal with linseed meal anil j| warm water, and is applied to improve the condii jtj tion of several kinds of unhealthy sores. CATAPLASMA CEIiEVISIAs. Madu j by stirring some oatmeal, or linseed meal, iij i; strong beer grounds. It is used in the sam«. cases, as the Cataplasma Fermenti, and Cataplas4 i ma Bynes. CATAPLASMA CICUTyE. Hemlock IW-ji tire. fy. Herbcn eicuice exfotiaice ^ij. Aipial. fonlance J^ij. To be boiled, till only a pint re4 mains, when as much linseed meal as necessary - is to be added. This is an excellent application to many can-4 i, cerous and scrofulous ulcers, and other malignant) i sores ; frequently producing a great diminution . of the pain of such diseases, and improving theiij appearance. Justamond preferred the fresh lierbJ . bruised. ^ CATAPLASMA DAUCI. Carrot P, udice.11 ]^/ Radicis Dauoi rtcenlis JLj. Bruise it in at mortar into a pulp. Some, perhaps, with reason) recommend the carrots to be first boiled. Tbei • carrot poultice is employed, as an application to 11 ulcerated cancers, scrofulous sores of an irrita-t • bie kind, and various inveterate malignant ulcers, i CATAPLASMA DIGITALIS. Made by j mixing linseed meal with a decoction of the i leaves of the plant. It is said to have great se- » dative virtues, to be adapted to the same cases, | as the cicuta poultice, and even to be more bene- * ficial. CATAPLASMA FARINACEUM. The, bread and milk poultice, made by putting some | slices of bread crum in milk, and letting them |l gently simmer over the fire in a saucepan, till S they are properly softened. rl he mass is then to < be mixed and stirred about with a spoon, and I spread on linen, in order to be applied. This poultice, which is of the emollient kind, is with many persons the common one for all ordinary purposes. Most surgeons, however, employ, in- stead of it, the linseed poultice, which is cheaper, more readily made, not apt to turn sour, and in all common cases, quite as advantageous in every respect. CATAPLASMA FERMENTI. Ferment- ing Poultice, [y Farina Tritin. Ibj. Cereri- sicc Spumcc, Yesi r/iettr; jj-jss. These are to be mixed together and exposed to a moderate heat, till the effervescence begins. In cases of slough- ing, and many ill-conditioned ulcers, this is an application of great repute. CATAPLASMA LINI. Linseed Pnuffirt- ]v Farince Lini jj^ss. Aq.Jerventis ^ "e powder is to be gradually sprinkled into the hot water, while they arc quickly blended together with a spoon.