FRACTURES. 48:? tions, we shall find, that, without permanent ex- tension, they are not very effectual. With re- gard to bandages, whether a roller, or eighteen- tailed bandage, be used, they all have one com- mon mode of operating ; they press the muscles towards the ends of the fracture, so as to make them form ‘a kind of natural case for the fracture, and thus they make lateral resistance against the parts. In this manner, bandages materially aid in preventing displacement side-ways, and are particularly useful in transverse fractures. But, what is thereto hinder the two inclined sur- faces of an oblique fracture from slipping one over the other ? What power is there to keep the limb from receiving the effects of accidental shocks? Is the pelvis kept back? Is the action of the muscles resisted? The latter is indeed somewhat diminished by the pressure, and this is the chief use of the bandage; but, will such compression be enough to prevent the longitu- dinal displacement of the broken bone, especially, if the bandage be applied slackly, as some ad- vise? These remarks apply also to compresses; petit mu^en conue out grande cause. Splints are useful in firmly fixing the limb, and guarding it from the effects of accidental shocks, or of contractions of the muscles. They operate more powerfully, than bandages, in pre- venting lateral displacement, and, hence, they suffice for transverse fractures, without perman- ent extension. They also resist the rotation of the thigh outward, or inward. But, when the breach of continuity is oblique, will they hinder the ends of the bone from gliding over each other, and the consequent shortening of the limn ? They obviously could !only do so, by the friction of the different pieces of the apparatus, especially, the tapes, which fasten it, and then, to make the resistance effectual, they must be tied so tightly as to create danger of morti- fication. Will the splints prevent the trunk from descending, and propelling before it the upper end of the fracture ? "W ill they hinder the action of the muscles on the lower end ? Will they, in short, fulfil all the above indica- tions? Their chief use is to prevent lateral displacement, and keep the limb steady. Hence, they should extend along the leg, as well as the thigh, whicli cannot fail to be disturbed whenever the lower part of the limb is allowed to move. The pads serve principally to keep the limb from being galled by the splints, and their action in preventing displacement of the fracture must be but trivial. According to Desault, the ordinary pieces of apparatus, which do not execute any permanent extension, may suffice for transverse fractures ; but, they are always ineffectual, when the divi- sion is oblique, because they do not fulfil the twofold indication of drawing downward the lower end of the fracture, and keeping the other one upward. Desault ascertained, that the object particu- larly to be aimed at, was such a disposition that the foot, leg, thigh, and pelvis, should constitute but »ne whole; so that, though the different parts thereof might be drawn in different direc- tions, yet they would still, with respect to one •mother, preserve the same mutual relation. He invented the following apparatus to answer these purposes. A strong splint, long enough to extend from the ridge of the os ilium to a certain length be- yond the sole of the foot, is a principal part of this apparatus: this splint should be two inches and a half broad, each of its extremities being pierced in the form of a mortice, and terminat- ing in a semicircular niche. It is applied to the exterior side of the thigh, by means of two strong linen bands, each being more than a yard long. The middle part of one of these bands is to be applied to the inside of the thigh, at its upper part; its ends are brought to the exterior side of the thigh, passed through the mortice, and knotted on the semicircular niche. Compresses are to be previously placed under the middle part of the band, in order to prevent any dis- agreeable pressure; as well as on the tuberosity of the ischium, which Desault considered as the principal point of action of this band. The in- ferior part of the leg is next covered with com- presses, on which the middle part of the second- hand is placed : the extremities of this band cross on the instep and upper part of the foot, then on the sole, after which they are conveyed outward, and one end passed through the mortice and knotted with the other on the niche, with such a degree of force as to pull the inferior portion of the femur downward, and push the splint up- ward, and, by this means, the pelvis, and supe- rior portion of the fractured bone. On the in- ternal side of the limb is placed a second splint, which extends from the superior part of the thigh, to a certain distance beyond the foot. A third is placed on the anterior part of the limb from the abdomen to the knee. The superior extremities of the anterior and exterior splints are fixed by means of a bandage passed round the pelvis. A band, the middle part of which is placed under the sole of the foot, and the ex- tremities crossed on its superior surface, and fastened to the splints, operates with them in preventing the foot from moving. Before applying the apparatus, Desault cover- ed the whole limb with compresses, wet with a solution of the acetite of lead. Over these, Scultetus’s bandage was put, and a roller round the foot, all wet with the same lotion. For more particulars, the reader is referred to the Parisian Chirurgical Journal, Vol. 1 ; (Euvres Chir. de Desault par Bichat, T. 1 ; Rosalinp Giardina Manoria sulla Fratture, con ahine Mo- ri if icazi one all’ Apparato di Desault. Svo. Pa- lermo, 1814. Royer, Traite dis Maladies Chir. T. 3 ; Richerand, Nos'ogr. Chir. T. 8, Edit. 4. Boyer’s apparatus for fractured thighs is de- scribed in the ‘id vol. of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, ed. 4. Instead of the position advised by Pott, or that recommended by Desault and Boyer, Mr. C. Bell prefers the posture, in which the patient lies upon his back, with the limb supported in the bent attitude by means of a wooden frame. This machine is simple enough, consisting of boards, ten or eleven inches in breadth, one reach- ing from the heel to the ham, the other from the ham to the tuberosity of the ischium. Under the knee-joint, they are united at an angle, wltil?