AMPUTATION. 83 cases, in which the bone protruded, though the greatest circumspection was used in the opera- tion and after-treatment. Hence, he was in- duced to make trial of the flap-amputation, and although he imitates OTIalloran in not attempt- ing to bring the flaps close together for the first six or eight days, lie reports that the stump is generally healed in from twenty to thirty days, and exfoliations rarely happen, on account of the bone being so well covered. In short, he says, that this method is to be preferred to all others. (J. B. Paroiae O/rusc. tie Chir. p. 185- 203, Paris 1806.) A description of Desault’s or rather Ver- male’s mode of operating, being given in the 4th Ed. of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, Vol. 2, I need not here repeat it, nor say, by how many respectable names the practice is sanctioned. Of late, the operation has been done by my friend Mr. Vincent in St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital, who shewed me a few weeks ago a capital stump, which he had made in this man- ner, and which had healed with great expedition. By Mr. Guthrie, the flap-operation is con- sidered preferable to the circular incision at the upper part of the thigh, “ as it permits the head of tiie bone to be removed, if found necessary, allows it to be examined and cut shorter with greater ease, and makes a much better covering afterwards.” (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 200.) In military surgery, flap-amputation of the thigh is often advantageous, because all the flesh on one side of the limb is frequently torn away, or left in so terribly a mangled state, as to be unfit for making a covering for the end of the bone. Here a flap, sufficient to cover the whole face of the stump, should be saved from the sound flesh on the other side of the limb. "When the surgeon chooses the flap-amputation, not from necessity, as under these last circum- stances, and the flesh is sound all round the member, the best way is to save a flap on each side of the limb, by making two semicircular cuts, the convexities of which extend in a parallel manner forwards, and the terminations of which meet at the upper and lower surfaces of the limb. The skin is not to be at ail dissected from the muscles, which are to be obliquely divided as high as the base of the flap on each side. However, though this is the best plan, particular cases may require a flap to be made from the anterior, or even the posterior side of the thigh. The latter method should never be followed, but from necessity. (See 'ley's Pfnrl. Ohs. in Surgery, y. 531, lid. 2.) According to Mr. Guthrie, the difference be- tween the flap-operation, at the upper part of the thigh, and that at the hip, consists in its being done lower down, and in the flaps being saved more immediately from the external and internal sides of tire thigh, the inner flap being the largest, in order to prevent the inconvenience, wnicli might arise from the external one being bghtly stretched over the end of the bone. or the same reason, Mr. Guthrie also re- commends the bone to be sawn oil' close to the riser trochanter, even when the nature of the injury would allow of its being left an inch °ngcr. (On Gunshot Wounds, p. 200.) r lap-amputation of the thigh, after the man- ner of Verm ale, is now preferred to the common mode by Klein, one of the best operating sur- geons in Germany. Of seven cases, in which lie adopted this method, the greater number were healed in ten days, and the rest in three weeks; and this success determined him in future always to practise it. After this mode, lie finds there is no danger of the muscles retracting them- selves, and leaving the end of the bone pro- truding, even though the patient be transported from one place to another. With respect to the occasional difficulty of taking up the obliquely cut vessels, Klein admits this objection, but thinks that it equally applies to Alanson’s method. He lays great stress on the utility of giving due support to the flaps with compresses and a roller. (See Praclische Ansichten tier bedcutentlsten chirurgischen Operational, p. S5-S8, 4m. Stutl- gar', i816.) In one instance, where a ball had broken the upper third of the femur, and mortification had spread so far towards the great trochanter and buttock, that it was impossible to operate, except by the flap-operation, or by taking the head of the bone out of the joint, Klein made a broad flap six inches long at the inner and upper part of the thigh, and then he cut the soft parts straight across just below the great trochan- ter, so as to make this wound meet the termination of the incision, by which the inner flap was formed. This patient got perfectly well in three weeks; (Op. cil. p. 39.) and so did another very similar case operated upon by the same gentleman, (p. 48.) Where the bleeding is con- siderable, the femoral artery and profunda should be tied previously to sawing the bone; but, if the vessels are well commanded by the pressure, the sawing ought to be first completed. A IMPUTATION BELOW THE KNEE. In treating of amputation of the thigh, I have remarked, that as much of the limb as possible should be preserved. The longer it is after the operation, the stronger and more useful will it be found. But, when the leg is to be amputated, authors have set it down, as almost an invariable rule, that the operation is to be performed a little way below the knee, even though the disease, for which the limb is re- moved, may be situated in the foot, or ankle, and would allow the operation to be done much further down. The common practice is to make the incision through the integuments, just losv enough to enable the operator to saw the bones, about four inches below the lowest part of the patella. This degree of lowness is usually deemed necessary, in order not to deprive the stump of that power of motion, which arises from the flexor tendons of the leg continuing undivided. It is alleged .also, ns a reason tor this mode of proceeding, that it is quite sufficient to preserve a few inches of the leg, in order to nffbrd the body a proper surface of support, in walking with a wooden leg, whereas if a larger portion were saved, the superfluous part would be a great inconvenience both in walking, and sitting down, without being of the smallest utility, in any respect whatever. However, as I shall presently rotiee, experience proves, that, whete according to these maxims, an injury, or disease would dictate the performance of amputation above the knee, the practice of amputating below r' • i