1163 VENEREAL DISEASE. medicines praised are anlimonials and sarsapa- rilla. Afterwards, when the fever subsides, and the eruption desquamates, an alterative course of antimony and calomel, it is said, will accele- rate the cure, though not absolutely necessary. In cases of venereal pustular eruptions, supposed <>v Mr. Carmichael to be most frequent after chancres with elevated edges, without induration, bloodletting is also advised during the febrile |.stage, followed by antimonials, sarsaparilla, ;guaiacum, tar-ointment, baths of sulphurated Iksali, or the nitro-muriatic bath; and, after the rpustules have terminated in scaly blotches, alte- rative doses of mercury, conjoined with sarsapa- ■ rilla, or guaiacum. An eruption of tubercles, or s spots of a pustular tendency, or of both inter- mixed, preceded by fever, and terminating in ul- cers covered with thick crusts, complaints, which :Mr. Carmichael considers a sequel rather of the j phagedenic, than other chancres, he treats at first 1 by bloodletting, followed by antimonials, sarsapa- t.l : rilla, guaiacum, compound powder of ipecacu- anha, arseniate of kali, nitrous acid, and nitro- rmuriatic bath. Mercury is said to be hurtful, except in the last stage. To scaly blotches, which he conceives to be a sequel of the true i chancre, or callous ulcer, he applies the same Idocal treatment as to pustular eruptions, and he lileems the question, whether sarsaparilla and gguaicum might here be substituted for mercury, jvyet unsettled. (See Obs. on the Symptoms, Syc. if Venereal Diseases, Synopsis, p. 205. 4 c.) lIThe investigations made in the military hospitals, d leeidedly prove, that all kinds of eruptions, sup- 17 rosed to be venereal, may be cured without nercury; but, I believe, the great and superior isefulness of moderate quantities of mercury, for he removal of the scaly, copper-coloured blotches s still generally acknowledged. But, even in hese cases of copper coloured spots, Mr. Bacot’s i idvice may be good, viz. when the general health s much deranged, the tongue loaded and furred, md the appetite gone, to defer mercury, “ until I b ry proper evacuations and attention to the general i nealth,” the patient has had the benefit of a delay, * which will, in many instances, render all farther nedical treatment unnecessary. It is undoubt- :dlv true, that, whatever plan be pursued, these : iruptive symptoms will eventually disappear; ctifl, where they continue to linger for a long ime, and are attended with their usual accom- raniments of great languor, debility, and dis- l urbed rest, I neither know, nor can I under- stand, the advantage of delaying that remedy, vhich repeated experience has taught me to rely jpon,” &c. (Bacot on Syphilis, p. 99.) Al- hough Mr. Carmichael’s practice seems good, lis theory, about the connexion of certain sores | with particular eruptions, and other peculiar se- I ttondary symptoms, appears to be nearly refuted ry the late investigations made in the military Hospitals. To some facts, relating to this ques- K ion, I have already adverted. There is as little certainty, about the essential characters of a syphilitic eruption, as about the est of every other symptom of the venereal dis- ease, or rather diseases. While Mr. Hunter de- jeribes the eruption as generally occurring over :he whole body, Dr. Bateman states, that syphi- litic aficctions of the skin commonly make their -rst appearance on the face, where ’they arc I usually copious, and on the hands and wrists. (Bract. Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, p. 332, edit. 3.) Their colour, he says, is in ge- neral less livid, than that of ordinary eruptions, being of a brownish red of different shades;' but, that this is not universal; for, some of the syphi- litic ecthymata have a bright red base in the be- ginning. Exposure to cold accelerates their progress, and increases their extent; while, on the other hand, warmth retards and ameliorates them. (P. 333. j According to Hunter, the discolorations make the skin appear mottled, and many of the eruptions disappear, while others continue, and increase with the disease. In other cases, the eruption comes on in di- stinct blotches, which are often not observed, till the scurf has begun to form. At other times, the eruption assumes the appearance of small distinct inflammations, containing matter, and resembling pimples, not being, however, so pyra- midal, nor so red at the base. Mr. Hunter also observes, that venereal blotches, on their first coming out, are often attended with inflamma- tion, which gives them a degree of transparency, which is generally greater in the summer, than the winter, especially, if the patient be kept warm. In a little time, this inflammation disappears, and the cuticle peels off in the form of a scurf. The latter occurrence often misleads the patient and the surgeon, who look upon this dying away of the inflammation, as a decay of the disease, till a succession of scurfs undeceives them. The parts affected next begin to form a cop- per-coloured, dry, inelastic cuticle, called a scurf, or scale. This is thrown off, and new ones are formed, which spread to the breadth of a six- pence or shilling; but, seldom more extensively, at least, for a considerable time. In the mean while, every succeeding scale becomes thicker and thicker, till at last it becomes a common scab. Then the disposition to the formation of iqatter takes place in the cutis underneath, and a true ulcer is produced, which commonly spreads, although in a slow way. When the affected part of the skin is opposed by another portion of skin, which keeps it in some degree more moist, as between the nates, about the arms, between the scrotum and the thigh, in the angle between the two thighs, on ,the red part of the lip, or in the arm-pits, the eruptions, instead of being attended with scurfs and scabs, are accompanied with an elevation of the skin, which is swollen with extravasated lymph into a white, soft, moist, flat surface, which discharges a white matter. (Hunter.) Mr. Carlisle has pointed out what he terms an herpetic abrasion of the cuticle on the breast, or abdomen, having the appearance of venereal blotches. He states, that it is less deep in the skin ; that it has less of an inflammatory base ; and that it is not so distinctly circumscribed, as the true venereal blotch. It never forms a puru- lent crust; but, is simply a furfuraceous scaling of the cuticle. This form of disease seems to him to be produced by a disordered stomach nnd liver. (See Loud. Med. Deposit. Vol. 7,p. 92.) A venereal eruption often attacks that part of the fingers, on which the nail is formed. Here, the disense renders that surface red, which is seen shining through the nail; and, if allowed to con- tinue, a separation of the nail takes place.