BLEEDING. 224 the best indication of their being healthy ; but should the}' tecl flabby, or exhibit protuberances, or white ulcerous specks on the surface, they should be kept in jars by themselves, the water and the turf of which should be frequently re- newed.” (Op. at. p. 1 38.) Leeches, occasionally, cannot be easily made to fix on the particular part we wish ; but they will do so, if the place be first cooled with a cloth dipped in cold water, or if it be moistened with cream or milk, and they be confined in the situ- ation with a small glass. According to Dr. Johnson, the part on which it is intended they shall fix should be as clean as possible; it should, therefore, be first washed with soap and water, and afterwards with water alone, which will be more necessary should any liniment or embrocation have been used. Leeches are often found to bite better, when removed from the water at least an hour previously to their application. In the common practice of putting as many of them as may be required into a wine-glass, and inverting it upon the part af- fected, there is the disadvantage, that they fre- quently retire to the upper part of the glass, and cannot be got down again, without some risk of displacing those which have already fastened. To remedy this inconvenience, Dr. Johnson recom- mends glass vessels of various sizes and figures, but none of them more than an inch deep. But, in his own practice, he prefers applying leeches with his hand. “ Bring a leech towards the part whereon you intend to fix it, and as soon as it begins to extend the head, to seek an attachment, endeavour that it may affix itself to the place required.” When it evinces no disposition to bite, a little puncture may be made with a lancet, when the animal will fix itself. “ When the patient is fearful of the lancet, and one leech only shall have bitten, where several are re- quired, it may be of use to remove it, which is readily done by inserting the nail of the finger between its mouth and the skin. The blood then flowing from the orifice, will induce the re- mainder to bite with the greatest avidity. As soon as the leeches are gorged, they drop off; this usually happens within ten or fifteen minutes. Sometimes they remain affixed a considerable time, and become indolent; but the}' are quickly roused from‘this state by sprinkling them with a few drops of cold water.” (Johnson, Op. cit. v. 141.) When they fall off, the bleeding may be promoted, if necessary, by fomenting the part. When the bleeding continues longer than is de- sirable, a slight compress will usually stop it; but in more troublesome cases, the compress must be dipped in brandy, or spirits of wine. In voung infants, the hemorrhage from the bites of leeches has sometimes proved fatal, and the same thing may happen in adults. An example of each fact’is related by Beauchene (Guztlc de Sant6 Sept. 1815.) When the bleeding is very troublesome, Autenrieth advises pieces of charpie to be pushed into the orifices of the bites; a method which, he assures us, is perfectly effectual. (Tul>i''gen Blatter, B. 2. St. 1. p. 57.) In order to make a leech disgorge, it is usual to throw a little salt upon it: in a few seconds the blood is rejected, the leech assumes a coiled form, and is seldom found fit for use again before the end of four or five days. As salt, however, frequently blisters the leech, it has been proposed? to empty the animal by regular and uniform pressure; but though Dr. Johnson considers this* plan better than the other, he admits that it is* scarcely practicable, without injuring the internal! structure of the leech. He says, the best me-l thod, and that from which the animal suffers the! least inconvenience, is pouring a small quantity! of vinegar upon its head. Leeches which havel been recently applied should always be kept by I themselves, and allowed to retain, for their nou-l rishment, about one third of the blood which they i extract. For a great deal of valuable information] respecting leeches, sec Johnson’s work, the title I of which is above specified. When leeches are very scarce, their tails may be snipped off, while they are sucking, and the blood will then flow, drop by drop, from the arti- ficial opening, as fast as the animals suck it; or, . with the same view, an incision may be made with a lancet, close to the tail. (Johnson, Op. cit.p. 144.) SCARIFICATION' WITH A LANCET, Is mostly done in cases of inflamed eyes. An assistant is to raise the upper eyelid, while the surgeon himself depresses the lower one, and makes a number of slight scarifications, where the vessels seem most turgid, trying particularly to cut the largest completely across. ILL CONSEQUENCES SOMETIMES FOLLOWING ELEEUING IN THE A KM. 1. Ecchymosis. The most common is a thrombus, or ecchy- mosis, a small tumor around the orifice, and oc- casioned by the blood insinuating itself into the adjoining cellular substance, at the time when this fluid is flowing out of the vessel. Changing the posture of the arm will frequently hinder the thrombus from increasing in size, so as to ob- struct the evacuation of blood. But, in some instances, the tumor suddenly becomes so large, that it entirely interrupts the operation, and pre- vents it from being finished. In these cases, however, the most effectual method of preventing the tumor from becoming still larger, is to re- move the bandage. By allowing the bandage to remain, a very considerable swelling may be in- duced, and such as might be attended with great trouble. If more blood be required to he taken away, it ought to be drawn from another vein, and, what is still better, from a vein in the other arm. The best applications for promoting the ab- sorption of these tumors, are those containing spirit, vinegar, or the muriate of ammonia. Com- presses, wetted with any lotion of this sort, may be advantageously put on the swelling, and con- fined there with a slack bandage. 2- Inflammation of the Integuments and subjacent Cellular Substance. According to Mr. Abernethy, the inflamma- tion and suppuration of the cellular substance, in which the vein lies, arc the most frequent occur- rences. On the Subsidence of this inflammation,