"30 JOINTS. the danger, attendant on wounds of the large joints, has always been exaggerated in conse- (|uence of ancient prejudices. {Desault's Jonrv. f ol. 2.) hut, making every allowance for the influence of prejudice, a man must be very scep- tical indeed, who does not consider the wound of so large a joint as the knee, attended with real cause for the apprehension of danger. See Case 2, in my Treatise on the Diseases of the Joints. At the end of Mr. Ford’s case, [Med. Ohs. and Inquiries, Vol. 5.) we read on the subject of cutting loose cartilages out of the knee: The society have been informed of several cases, in which the operation has been performed ; some, like this, have healed up, without any trouble; others have been followed by violent inflamma- tion, fever, and death itself.” The history of a case has lately been published, in which the pa* tient very nearly lost his life from suppuration in the knee-joint after this operation. (See Kirby's Cases, p. 75.) In the same work, re- ference is .also made to two other cases, which actually had a fatal termination; [p. 82): and even in Mr. Kirby’s own instance, the recovery was not effected, without the entire loss of the motions of the knee. As the disorder is often attended with a degree of heat and tenderness in the articulation; as the danger of the operation is, in a great measure, proportioned to the subsequent inflammation; and, as much of the danger is at once removed, if the wound unite by the first intention ; the ad- vice, to keep the patient in bed, a few days before operating, to apply leeches, and cold saturnine lotions to the knee during the same time, and to exhibit beforehand a saline purgative, is highly prudent. I shall next introduce an account of the plan of operating, as described by several of the best modern surgeons. “ As these loose bodies cannot always be found, no time can be fixed for the operation; but the patient, who will soon become familiar with his own complaint, must arrest them when in a fa- vourable situation, and retain them there till the surgeon can be sent for. “ Before the operation, the limb should be extended upon a table in an horizontal position, and secured by means of assistants; the loose cartilages are to be pushed into the upper part of the joint above the patella, and then to one side; the inner side is to be preferred, as in that situation only the vastus internus muscle will be divided in the operation. Should there be se- veral of these bodies, they must be all secured, or the operation should be postponed till some more favourable opportunity, since the leaving of one will subject the patient to the repetition of an operation, not only painful, but attended with some degree of danger. “ The loose bodies are to be secured in the situation above-mentioned by an assistant, a task not easily performed while they are cut upon, from their being lubricated by the synovia; and if allowed to escape into the general cavity, they may not readily, if at all, be brought back into the same situation. “ The operation consists in making an in- cision upon the loose cartilage, which it will be best to do in the direction of the thigh, us the wound will more readily be healed by the first intention. If the skin is drawn to one side, pre- viously to making the incision, the wound through the parts underneath will not correspond with that made in the skin, which circumstance will favour their union. The incision upon the cartilage must be made with caution, as it will with dif- ficulty be retained in its situation if much force is applied. The assistant is to endeavour to push the loose body through the opening, which must be made sufficiently large for that purpose; but as this cannot always be done, the broad end of an eyed probe may be passed under it, so as to lift it out, or a sharp-pointed instrument may be stuck into it, which will fix it to its situation, and bring it more within the management of the sur- geon. “ The cartilages being all extracted, the cut edges of the wound are to be brought together, and, by means of a compress of lint, not only pressed close to one another, but also to the parts underneath, in which situation they are to be retained by sticking plaster, and the uniting bandage. “ As union by the first intention is of the utmost consequence after this operation, to pre- vent an inflammation of the joint, the patient should remain in bed with the leg extended, till the wound is perfectly united, or at least all chance of inflammation at an end.” (Home, in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 1, p. 239, §c.) In one instance, Desault proceeded in the fol- lowing manner: the surgeon, after relaxing the capsular ligament by extending the leg, brought the extraneous body on the inside of the articula- tion against the attachment of the capsular liga- ment, and secured it in this situation, between the index finger and thumb of the left hand, whilst an assistant drew the integuments for- wards towards the patella. The parts, covering this extraneous body, were now divided by an incision one inch in length, and its extraction ac- complished by pushing it from above downwards, and raising it inferiorly with the end of the knife. This substance, on examination, was found similar in colour to the cartilages that cover the articular surfaces: it was three quarters of an inch in length, six lines and a half in width, and three lines in thickness; its surfaces were smooth, one concave and the other convex, its circumference irregular, disseminated with red points, forming small depressions; the inside was ossified, the outside of a cartilaginous tex- ture. As soon as the substance was extracted, the assistant let go the integuments which he had drawn forwards; they consequently returned to their natural situation, on the inner side of the knee-joint, in such a manner, that the external wound in the integuments was situated more in- ward, than the one in the capsular ligament. Two advantages were procured by this means: on the one hand, air was. prevented from penetrating into the articulation ; and on the other, the float- ing portion of capsular ligament, retained inwards by the skin, was more likely to attach itself to the condyle, in case it did not unite to the other portion of the capsule divided near its attach- ment. The edges of the wound were brought into contact by means of a uniting bandage; dry lint and compresses were applied, and retained on the part by a slight bandage; and the limb was