430 EXO the way, in which a dead portion of bone is separated from the living part; and he has re- futed many erroneous doctrines set up by Hip- pocrates, Van Swicten, B. Bell, <Jfc. Seep. 23, et seq. op. cit. Diet, des Sciences Med. art. Exfoliation. J. Thompson’s Lectures on In- flammation, p. 394, 398. P. Bonluy stir I’Ex- foliation des Os, 4to. Paris, 181-1. ' J. Wilam, on the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, and on the Diseases of the Bones, See. p. 230, #c. 8(io. Land. 1820. EXOMPHALOS. (from i£, out of, and OfxtpnXoc, the navel.) A hernia at or near the navel. EXOPI-ITHALMIA. (from it, out, and op9a\/jiO(, the eye.) In the case, to which the most judicious sur- gical writers apply the terms, exophthalmiu, opli- thalmop’osiB, ptosis bulbi oculi, the eye-ball is of its natural size, and free from disease ; it merely changes its situation, and partly or completely protrudes from the orbit. It is only confusing the subject to consider, as specimens of this dis- ease, the cases, in which the globe of the eye is affected with enlargement, and on that account projects from the orbit in a preternatural degree, as happens in hydrophthalmia, staphyloma, and cancerous diseases of the eye. When the globe of the eye is pushed entirely out of the orbit, it generally lies upon the temple, or cheek, and vision is totally destroyed. There are instances, however, in which a considerable degree of sight was recovered, notwithstanding the exoph- thalmia was complete, and had lasted several years. (Hope in Phil. Trans, for 1744. Rich- ter's Bibl. 4 Band, p. 343.) There are three descriptions of causes, which may occasion exophthalmia. 1. The first and least common is a violent concussion of the head. A man fell from a height of about fifteen or sixteen feet, and pitched upon his head. The right eye was forced out of its socket, and hung over the cheek. The patient was deprived of his senses immediately after the accident, and affected with coma. There was a contusion over the right parietal bone ; but, no fracture. The eye spontaneously resumed its natural position, a short time after the accident, and, in the course of a month, with the assistance of low diet, and repeated bleeding, the cure was completed. (Mem. de CAcad. de Chirurgie, Tom. 1, p. 198, 4to ) It has been alledged, that the eye has been forced out of the orbit in a violent fit of sneezing. But, such cases, says Richter, are very uncommon, and always imply a considerable relaxation of those parts, which serve to retain the eye in its socket, or some other pradisposing causes, to which attention should be paid in the treatment. ( Richter, Anfangsgr. der Wundarz. B. 3, p. 407, Ed. 1795.) 2. Afar more frequent cause of exophthalmia is a thrust in the eye with an instrument, which is narrow enough to pass between the orbit and the eyeball, so as to push the latter out of its place. A stick, a tobacco pipe, (Whitt's Cases in Surgery, p. 131.) a foil, &c. may cause the accident. Repeated experience proves, says Rich- ter, that, in such cases, though the optic nerve and muscles of the eye may be forcibly stretched; EXO the interior parts of the organ seriously injured; and the dislocated eye generally deprived of the faculty of seeing, yet, when the organ is replaced as speedily as possible, it not only sometimes re- covers its natural motion, but also its original power of vision. (See Scullct. Appendix, Ohs. G9. Covillard, Obs. 27. Borellus, Centur.fi, Obs. 54. Rhodius, Centur. I, Obs. 84. While's Cases, p. 131.) But, before we reduce the eye, Rich- ter advises us always to examine the instrument, which was pushed into the orbit; as, when it is brittle, a fragment of it may remain behind in the socket, and require to be extracted by means of the finger, or a probe. When the weapon is pointed arid hard, it sometimes pierces the bones of the orbit, and enters the brain, nose, or antrum. In the first case, which is often difficult to as- certain immediately, though after a time it is generally rendered plain enough by the sym- ptoms induced, the consequences are mostly fatal. In the two other cases, although the danger is not pressing, yet the surgeon should be very attentive, in the event of suppuration, to pro- cure and maintain a ready outlet for the matter. There is generally little difficulty in replacing the eye. Frequently it returns of itself into its natural situation again, as soon as any trivial obstacles to its reduction are removed; and in other instances, it easily admits of being put into its proper place with the hand. The indication, says Richter, is always accomplished with more facility, the sooner it is attempted. When the protrusion has existed several days, and the eye and other parts in the orbit are already inflamed, Richter recommends us to endeavour to diminish the inflammation by general antiphlogistic means, and external emollient applications, before we try to replace the eye, and the reduction of this organ is afterwards to be effected in a gradual manner. When the optic nerve, and one or more of the muscles of the eye are torn, no hope can be entertained, that the eyesight and motion of the organ will ever be regained. But, tliis degree of injury, as Richter observes, cannot always be immediately detected, because the optic nerve and muscles are concealed by the conjunctiva ; and, if the nature of the case were known, still it would be advisable to replace the eyeball, and endeavour to prevent the disfigure- ment, which its loss would unavoidably produce. But, says Richter, it is necessary, especially if the parts behind the eyeball have suffered se- verely, to use such means, as will ensure a ready escape for the matter, which may possibly form. Though Richter offers the opinion, it is difficult to conceive how the violence of the injury of the conjunctiva, muscles, and nerve, can ever render it most prudent not to reduce the part, until after suppuration has taken place. Richter thinks, that a surgeon may the more readily make up his mind to this conduct, as many cases have proved, that the eyeball, even after being dislocated from the orbit a long while, has been easily replaced. In other instances, the parts, which connect the eye with the orbit, may be so torn and injured, that it will be most advisable to extirpate the organ. Richter maintains, however, that this should never be done, when there is the least chance of saving the eye. If the bones in the orbit be fractured, the reduction must not be made until