AMAUROSIS. 29 The pills are here directed to be made larger, than Schmucker and Richter order, so that the number in one dose may be diminished; for, to prescribe i 5 pills, three times a day, might seem absurd to the generality of patients in this coun- try. When the above plan has rectified the state of the stomach, and partly effected the restoration of sight, such remedies must be employed, as strengthen the digestive organs, and excite the vigour of the nervous system in general, and of the nerves of the eye in particular. A powder is to be prescribed, composed of an ounce of bark, and half an ounce of valerian, divided into six equal parts, one of which is to be taken in the morning, and another in the evening, in any convenient vehicle, for, at least, five or six weeks. During this time, the patient’s nourish- ment must consist of tender succulent meat, and wholesome broths, with a moderate quantity of wine, and proper exercise in a salubrious air. For exciting the action of the nerves of the eye, the vapour of liquor ammonice, properly directed against the eye, is of the greatest service. This remedy is applied by holding a small vessel, con- taining it, sufficiently near the eye to make this organ feel a smarting, occasioned by the very penetrating vapours, with which it is enveloped, and which cause a copious secretion of tears, and a redness, in less than half an hour after the be- ginning of the application. It is now proper to stop, and repeat the application three or four hours afterwards. The plan must be thus fol- lowed up till the incomplete amaurosis is quite cured. The ammoniacal vapours should be used as soon as the stomach has been freed from all irritating matter, and they should not be discon- tinued, till long after the eye has been cured. I he operation of these vapours may be aided by other external stimulants, applied to such other parts of the body as have a great deal of sympathy with the eyes. Of this kind are blisters to the nape of the neck; friction on the eye-brow with the anodyne liquor; the irrita- tion of the nerves of the nostrils by sternutative powders, like that composed of two grains of turbith mineral, and a scruple of powdered betonv leaves; and, lastly, a stream of electricity. For some additional observations on the effect of electricity in cases of amaurosis, see Guita S', rnw. Bark, which is efficacious in intermittent fevers, and other periodical diseases, far from curing the periodical amaurosis, seems to exasperate it, ren- ileiing its return more frequent, and of longer duration. On the other hand, this disease is most commonly cured, in a very short time, by exhibiting first emetics, then opening pills con- taining antiinonium tartarizatum and gummy saponaceous substances, and lastly, corroborants, <md even bark, which was before useless and hurt- ful. Such is the statement of Professor Scarpa, which agrees with the sentiments, already cited from Richter, respecting the effect of bark in periodical amaurosis. As if, however, prac- titioners were doomed always to differ, and rners to be puzzled, Beer tells us, that he 88 8Cen only two cases of periodical intermittent TOauroxis, both of which wore soon perfectly rnrdl by large doses of hark. Other periodical amaurotic affections he has seen, however, attend- ant on intermittent fever, but they spontaneously subsided with the febrile paroxysms, without any particular treatment being applied to the eyes. Sometimes, when the paroxysms recurred fre- quently, a considerable weakness of sight re- mained after them ; but, this always went off of itself, except iti a single instance, in which the functions of the eyes were perfectly re-established by the exhibition of arnica, joined with bitters. (See Beer’s Lehre von der Augenkr. B. o, p. 585.) In the two cases, which were unaccompanied with fever, the vitreous humour had the appear- ance of being turbid during the attacks, but re- gained its natural clearness on each return of vision, the loss of which used to be complete. Here we see another instance, in which a cloudiness be- hind the pupil in amaurosis did not impede the cure, and went away in the most ready manner. Possibly, the opacity, which in speaking of the prognosis, I said that Langenbeck had not found to prevent the cure of certain cases, might also have had its seat in the vitreous humour, and not depended upon disease of the retina. Scarpa finds, that the above plan of curing the recent imperfect amaurosis succeeds in the ma- jority of cases, where the disease is only sympa- thetic, or dependent on the morbid state of the gastric system. But, there are cases, in the form- ation of which many other causes operate, be- sides the most frequent one already stated. These demand the employment of particular curative means, in addition to those which have been already described. Such is, for example, the imperfect amaurosis, which occurs suddenly, in consequence of the body being excessively heated, or exposure to the sun, or violent anger, in plethoric subjects. This case requires, in particular, general and topical evacuations of blood, and the application of cold washes to the eyes and whole head. An emetic should next be given, and afterwards a purge of potassae tartras, or small repeated doses of antimonium tartarizatum. Schmucker relates, that, by means of bleeding and an emetic, he has often restored the eye-sight of soldiers, who had lost it in mak- ing forced marches, with very heavy burdens. In amaurosis, suddenly occasioned by violent anger, an emetic is the more strongly indicated after bleeding, as the blindness, thus arising, is always attended with a bitter taste in the mouth, tension of the hypochondria, and continual nausea. Richter gives an account of a clergyman, who became completely blind, after being in a furious passion, and whose eye-sight was restored the very next day, by means of an emetic, which was given with a view of relieving some obvious marks of bilious disorder in the stomach. Scarpa’s treatment of the imperfect amaurosis brought on by fevers, deep sorrow, great loss of blood, intense study, and forced exertions of the eyes on very minute or brilliant objects, con- sists also in removing all irritation from the stomach, and afterwards strengthening the ner- vous system in general, and the nerves of the eye in particular. In the case originating from fevers, the emetic and opening pills are to he given; then bark, steel medicines, and bitters; while the vapours of the liquor ammoniac are applied to the eye itself.