0PI1THALMY. 885 st delay, to one of the following eye* salves, a of which, about the size of a small pea, Beer ects to be smeared once a day over the edges the eyelids, lx* Butyr. recentis insulsi j;ss. .•drarayri nitrico-oxydi gr. x. Tutise ptt. gr. JVIisce. This ointment, he says, will some- es answer; but, that it is mostly necessary to Janin’s salve, composed as follows : .vri recentis insulsi j$ss. Hydrargyri prae- tati albi, gr. xv. Boli albi 3j. Misce. According to Mr. Travers, the mild acute ipurative inflammation of the conjunctiva is attended with that excessive swelling of the lids, that intense pain, nor that profuse se- tion, with which the vehement acute form of disease is characterized. In the treatment, directs a solution of alum to be early sub- uted for emollient fomentations, which he re- amends to be freely used during the acute pe- 1. Simple purging and abstinence, he says, are lerally sufficient to allay the febrile irritation, ich is moderate. Topical bleedings, and blisters, ,t open on the back of the neck, are also stated be of great efficacy. “ When the pain and itabilitv to light subside, and the discharge :omes gleetv, the conjunctiva pale and flaccid, iics, especially the extract of bark and the acids, great good.” (Synopsis, S[C. p. 264.) Catarrhal ophthulmy, so called by Beer, is ;cribed by him as a species of glandular in- timation of the eyelids, attended with a si- dtaneous affection of the mucous membrane the nose, trachea, &c. brought on by parti- ar states of the weather, and attacking so ny persons at once, as to appear epidemic, e prognosis and indications are the same those in common glandular inflammation the eyelids, with this exception, that al- ,tion must be paid to the affection of other gans, and both at the first and second periods the second stage, such remedies given as ope- te powerfully on the mucous membranes and in, and, in general, during the second stage, equal warm temperature, and gentle diapho- lics, with camphor, are highly beneficial. Severe Purulent Ophthulmy.—The Blepha- -hlennorrhcea, and Ophthalmo-hlcnnorrhmi, of ■hmidt and Beer; including the ophthalmia onatorum; the Egyptian ophthulmy; the n rrhaml ophthulmy, fyc., on which varieties, iwever, I shall annex to this account some fur- er particulars, as they relate to each of these ses individually, because, though the following story contains an excellent general description the severe forms of suppurative inflammation the conjunctiva, it leaves unexplained some of c circumstances on which its varieties depend. The vehement acute suppurative inflammation the conjunctiva is described by Mr. Travers being sudden in its attack; a feature, in which particularly differs from the milder cases, usu- ly met with in schools. (See Lloyd on Scro- it/lu, p, 321.) It is accompanied with most sc- ire darting pains; and the upper eyelid is some* mes in a few hours prolonged upon the check, •ving to the infiltration and enormous swelling f the tissue, connecting the conjunctiva to the irsusd (Travers, Synopsis, 8fc. p. 2G5.) According to Beer, the modification of glandu- ir inflammation of the eyelids, here to be con- dered, consists entirely in the rapid extension of the inflammation and suppuration, the dis- order affecting, ere it is suspected, not only the whole of the conjunctiva of the eyelid, but also that of the eyeball, and the sclerotica and cornea. The swelling of the palpebral conjunctiva is de- scribed by Beer as being unusually great; at first, soft, somewhat elastic, smooth, and readily bleed- ing ; but, afterwards, in the second stage, hard and granulated, or, as another writer says, it “ becomes preternaturally vascular, thickened, and scabrous, or forms fleshy eminences.”— (Travers, Synopsis, fyc. p. 96.) The first stage is rapidly over. At the first period of the second stage, the secretion both of mucus and pus is surprisingly copious. First, the mucus is whitish and thin ; but, as soon as the suppurative process begins, it becomes yellowish and thick, and when an attempt is made to open the eyelids, it gushes out with such force, and in so large a quantity, as frequently to cover, in an instant, the whole cheek. Sometimes, this mixture of mucus and matter contains light- coloured streaks of blood; but, in worse cases, these streaks are dark and brownish, or else a thin ichor is discharged, in which case, the pro- gress of the disease is so rapid, that the eye can seldom be saved. The swelling of the conjunc- tiva of the eyelids, especially of that of the upper one, always increases during the first period of suppuration, and, when the discharge is more ichorous, the membrane is more granulated, so that, if the eyelid be opened carelessly, or during the child’s crying, fits of pain, &e. the whole tumefied conjunctiva of the upper eyelid is im- mediately thrown outward, in the form of ectro- pium, and it is sometimes difficult, and even im- practicable to turn the part inward again, espe- cially, when the conjunctiva is already changed into a hard sarcomatous substance. While the swelling at the inner surface of the eyelids con- tinues to increase, their outer surface, particu- larly that of the upper one, becomes reddened ; but the redness is dark-coloured, inclining to brown, and when the child cries, to blue. In children, the whole cheek on the affected side is very often swelled, and sometimes the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac and even of the nose, participates in the effects of the disorder. Sometimes, at first, only one eye is affected, and the other is afterwards attacked. And, accord- ing to Beer, just before the period of suppura- tion, it is by no means uncommon for rather a profuse bleeding to take place from the eye; an event, which though it seriously alarm the pa- rents of the child, or an adult patient, is hailed by the experienced surgeon as *a favourable omen ; for, in such cases, the suppuration is generally very mild, and not of a destructive kind, and the swelling of the conjunctiva of the eyelids, as well as that of the sclerotic conjunc- tiva, if already present, soon undergoes a re- markable diminution after such hemorrhage, which often recurs two or three times. When during the first, very short and transient stage, the inflammation extends also to the sclerotic conjunctiva, this membrane forms a pale-red, soft, irregular swelling, all round the cornea, which at length seems so buried, that at the period of the mucous secretion, its centre can hardly be discerned; and, when suppuration begins, both mucus and pus are discharged from the conjuuc-