^78 LITHOTOMY. also considered of great importance: for, it is by this means, that the gorget is introduced along the groove of the stuff in the axis of the bladder, the only direction, unattended with risk of wounding the rectum. In fact, the gorget should be introduced nearly in a direction, cor- responding to a line drawn from the os coccygis to the umbilicus. It is obvious, however, that the degree, in which the handle of the staff should be depressed, must depend very much upon the curvature of the instrument. The utmost attention to the rule last noticed is especially necessary, when a staff with a groove not closed at the end is employed. The neglect of it in this case might make the operator cut the bladder with the gorget in several places, as has actually happened, as we learn from the obser- vations of Mr. B. Bell. But, since the gorget, when introduced as nearly as possible in the axis of the bladder, may transfix and otherwise injure this organ, if introduced either too far, or at all beyond the extremity of the staff, I am decidedly of opinion, that every surgeon, who chooses to perform the lateral operation with a gorget, should employ a staff, the groove of which is closed at the extremity, as is invariably done in France, and is expressly enjoined by Professor Scarpa. (See Sabatier's Medecine Operotoire, T. 8, p. 223, Edit. 2; and Scarpa's Memoir on Hawkin's Gorget, p. 18, fyc.) There can also be no doubt of the prudence of endeavouring to have only a fixed and limited length of the staff in the bladder. Scarpa specifies an inch and a half as the proper distance, to which the end of the staff should enter the bladder. However, as it is known, that this distinguished Professor is an advocate for a very limited incision, and that consequently, he would not require the staff to extend further than an inch and a half into the bladder, I infer, that operators, who prefer making a freer opening, must use a staff, that reaches into this viscus rather further. Much, however, will depend upon the kind of gorget employed, particularly its breadth. As soon as the gorget is introduced, the staff is to be withdrawn. Some operators next pass the forceps, along the concave surface of the gorget, into the bladder; while others, with every appearance of being right, recommend the cut- ting gorget to be withdrawn immediately it has completed the wound; for then the bladder con- tracts, and its fundus is liable to be cut. The gorget should be withdrawn in the same line in which it entered, pressing it towards the right side, in order to prevent its making a second wound. If, however, the operator should prefer passing the forceps into the bladder, along the gorget, the latter instrument must be kept quite motionless, lest its sharp edge do mischief; and, at all events, as soon as the forceps is in the bladder, the cutting gorget is to be withdrawn. Some operators withdraw the cutting gorget, and introduce a blunt one for the guidance of the forceps; a step certainly unnecessary, as the latter instrument will easily pass, when the inci- sion into the bladder is ample and direct, as it ought always to be. The operator has next to grasp the stone with the blades of the forceps ; for which purpose, he isnot to expand the instrument, as soon as It has arrived in the bladder; but he should first make use of the instrument as a kind of probe, for ascer- taining the exact situation of the stone. If this body should be lodged at the lower part of the blad- der, just behind its neck, the operator is to open the forceps immediately over the stone, and after depressing the blades a little, is gently to shut them, so as to grasp it. Certainly, it is much more scientific to use the forceps at first, merely for ascertaining the position of the stone; for, when this is known, the surgeon is much more able to grasp the extraneous body in a skilful manner, than if he were to open the blades of the instru- ment immediately, without knowing where they ought next to be placed, or when shut. No man of experience can doubt, that the injury, which the bladder frequently suffers, from rough, re- iterated, awkward movements of the forceps, is not an uncommon cause of such inflammation of this viscus, as too often extends to the perito- naeum, and occasions death. If the surgeon cannot readily take hold of the stone with the forceps, he should introduce his fore and middle fingers into the rectum, and raise up the extraneous body, when it may gene- rally be easily grasped. The stone should be held with sufficient firmness to keep it from slipping away from the blades, but not so forcibly as to incur the risk of its breaking. Sometimes, the extraction of the stone is at- tended with difficulty, owing to the operator having chanced to grasp it in a transverse posi- tion, in which circumstance, it is better to try to change its direction, or let it go altogether, and take hold of it in another manner. When the stone is so large, that it cannot be extracted from the wound, without violence and laceration, the surgeon may either break thestonebv means of a strong pair of forceps, with teeth constructed for the purpose; or he may enlarge the wound with a probe-pointed crooked bistoury, introduced under the guidance of the fore-finger of the left hand. The latter plan is generally the best of the two; for, breaking the stone is an exceed- ingly unpleasant circumstance, as it creates se- rious danger of calculous fragments remaining behind. However, as nothing can justify the exertion of force in pulling out a stone, if the operator should be afraid of making the wound more am- ple, (it being already large and direct) he must break the stone, as above described. As many of the fragments are then to be extracted with the common lithotomy forceps, as can be taken away in this method, after which the surgeon should introduce his finger, in order to feel whether any pieces of the stone still remain behind. Perhaps, some of these may be most conveniently taken out with the scoop; but, if they are very small, it is best to inject lukewarm water with moderate force into the wound for the purpose of washing them out. The surgeon, however, cannot be too strongly impressed with the absolute necessity of using the greatest care not to remove the patient from the operating table, while any calculus, or frag- ment, remains in the bladder. For, the distress- ing pain of the disorder has been known to recur upon the healing of the wound, and a second ope- ration become necessary. It is a melancholy