FRACTURES. a horizontal board connects their lower ends to- gether. ihus they form two sloping surfaces, to which cushions are adapted, and over which the limb can be placed in an easy bent position. Near, the edge ot the inclined boards, holes are in ide, furnished with pegs. After the bone has been set, a long splint is applied from the hip to the side ot the knee, and another along the in- side of the thigh. (See Opemtiue Surge nj^ Vhl. ‘2, p. !39.) I entertain a very favourable opi- nion of this mode of placing fractured thighs. However, the foregoing apparatus does not suf- ficiently secure the leg and foot from motion, though with the aid of a roller and a foot-board, this advantage might easily be obtained. The fracture apparatus, devised by my friend Mr. Earle, is excellently calculated for this mode of treatment, with these additional recommenda- tions, that the obliquity-- of the two surfaces, on which the limb reposes, can be altered as occa- sion may require: there is a foot-board for the support of the foot, and a contrivance, by which the patient is enabled to have stools, without moving himself or changing his posture in the slightest degree. Fractures of the Neck of the Thigh-honr. These accidents are infinitely more frequent, than dislocation of the thigh-bone, and are di- visible into two kinds: first, that in which the neck of the bone is broken within the capsular ligament; and secondly, that in which the frac- ture happens externally to this ligament, either through the root of the neck of the bone, or through the trochanter major. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 30.) The neck of the thigh-bone may be fractured either by a fall on the great trochanter, the sole of the foot, or the knee. According to Desault, the first accident produces the injury much more frequently, than the two latter. Of thirty cases, which were seen by Desault, four-and-twenty arose from falls on the side. All those inserted by Sabatier in his interesting Memoir, were the result of a similar accident. These statements, hqwever, do not exactly coincide with the ex- perience of Mr. A. Cooper, who observes, that, in London, the accident is most commonly pro- duced by a person slipping off the edge of the foot pavement. According to this eminent sur- geon, a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, within the capsular ligament, seldom happens but at an advanced period of life, and the reason of the facility, with which the injury takes place in old persons, he ascribes to the interstitial ab- sorption, which that part of the femur undergoes in individuals past a certain age, whereby it be- comes shortened, and altered in its angle with the shaft of the bone. Mr. A. Cooper admits, however, that the accident is frequently caused by a fall upon the trochanter major. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p- 35, 36. Also Larrey, Journ. Complem. T. 8, p. 98, 8vo. Paris. 1820.) Frac- tures of the neck of the thigh-bone are said to be more common in women, than men. (J. Wilson on the Skeleton, <^c. p. 245.) The di vision is seldom oblique, almost always transverse; the neck being sometimes, in the latter case, wedged in the body of the bone, as Desault found in several instances ; a model of one of which, in wax, is preserved in the collec- tion ot L’Ecole de Sante, and the natural speci- men of which was in the possession of Bichat. The fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is sometimes complicated with that of the trochan- ter major. I he diagnosis is occasionally so difficult, that the best-informed practitioners cannot alwavs detect the accident with certainty. At the in- stant of the fall, an acute pain is felt, (sometimes a crack is distinctly heard) and a sudden inabi- lity to walk occurs ; and the patient cannot raise himself from the ground. The latter circum- stance, however, is not invariable. In the fourth vol. of the Mem. tie t’Arud. dc Chirurgie, a case is related, in which the patient walked home after the accident, and even got up the next day. Desault published a similar example. 1 he locking of one end of the fracture in the other, may offer an explanation of this circum- stance. The dissections, made by Dr. Codes, have recently led to another discovery, viz. that some times the solution of continuity does not extend completely through the neck of the femur. (See Dublin Hospital Pepurls, Vol. 2.) Three cases proving this are there adduced; a fact, which at once explains the ability of some patients to walk directly after the injury, and the absence of all retraction of the limb. A shortening of the limb almost always takes place; but this symptom is more or less strik- ing, according as the breach of continuity is out of the cavity of the orbicular ligament, which then cannot keep the bone from being retracted; or as the extremity of the fracture is confined bv this ligament. The action of the muscles draw- ing upward the lower end of the fracture, the weight of the trunk in propelling downward the pelvis and upper end of the fracture, are the two causes of the shortening of the iimb. In general, a slight effort suffices for the restoration of the natural length of the limb; but, the shortness re- curs almost as soon as the extension ceases. “ This evidence of the nature of the accident continues,” as Mr. A. Cooper correctly remarks, “ until the muscles acquire a fixed contraction, which enables them to resist any extension, which is not of the most powerful kind.” (Sur- * gicul Essays, Part 2, p. 31.) Goursault and Sabatier remark, that sometimes the shortening of the member does not take place till a long while after the accident. In opposition to the common belief, that the limb is shortened. Baron Larrey asserts, that the member is at first ac- tually lengthened. (Journ. CompUm. T. 8, p. 99.) This statement I have never seen con- firmed, and it is contradicted by daily experience. And, to prove how widely Larrey differs from Mr. A. Cooper, the following passage will suf- fice. “In order to form a still more decided judgment of this accident (says the latter writer) after the patient has been examined in the re- cumbent posture, let him be directed to stand by his bed-side, supported by an assistant, so as to bear his weight upon the sound limb. Imme- diately he does this, the surgeon observes most distinctly the shortened state of the injured leg, the toes resting on the ground, but the heel not reaching it, the everted foot and knee, and the diminished prominence of the hip.’’ (Surgical