412 EMPHYSEMA. sense of suffocation, which water does in the hydrops pectoris, or matter in the empyema. (Hew son.) To understand, why the air passes at all out of the wound of the lungs, we must advert to the manner, in which inspiration and expiration are naturally carried on. It is well known, that in the perfect state, the surface of the lungs always lies in close contact with the membrane lining the chest, both in inspiration and expiration. The lungs themselves are only passive organs, and are quite incapable, by any action of their own, of expanding and contracting, so as to maintain their external surface always in contact with the inside of the thorax, which is continually under- going an alternate change of dimensions. Every muscle, that has any share in enlarging and di- minishing the capacity of the chest, must con- tribute to the effect of adapting the volume of the lungs to the cavity, in which they are con- tained, as long as there is no communication be- tween the cavity of the pleura, and the external air. In inspiration, the thorax is enlarged in every direction, the lungs are expanded in the same way, and the air entering through the wind- pipe into the air-cells of these organs, prevents , the occurrence of a vacuum. But, in cases of wounds, when there is a free qpmmunication between the atmosphere and in- side of the chest, no sooner is this cavity ex- panded, than the air naturally enters it at the same time, and for the same reasons, that the air enters the lungs through the trachea, and the lung itself remains proportionally collapsed. When the thorax is next contracted, in expira- tion, the air is compressed out of the lung, and also, out of the bag of the pleura, through the external wound, if there be a direct one, in which circumstance, the emphysematous swelling is never extensive. But, in the case of a fractured rib, attended with a breach in the pleura costalis, pleura pul- inonalis, and air-cells of the lungs, there is no direct communication between the cavity of the chest and the external air; in other words, there is no outward wound in the parietes of the thorax. There is, however, a preternatural opening formed between the air-cells of the lungs and the cavity of the chest, and also another one between the latter space, and the general cellular substance of the body, through the breach in the pleura costalis. The consequence is, that when the chest is expanded in inspiration, air rushes from the wound in the surface of the lungs,,and insi- nuates itself between them and the pleura costalis. The lungs collapse in proportion, and the place, which they naturally occupied, when distended, is now occupied by the air. When, in expiration, the dimensions of the chest are every where di- minished, the air, now lodged in the bag of the pleura, cannot get back into the aperture in the collapsed lung, because this is already full of air, and is equally compressed on every side, by that which is confined in the thorax. Were there no breach in the pleura costalis, this air could not now become diffused; the muscles of inspiration would next enlarge the chest, remove the pres- sure from the surface of the wounded lung, more air would be sucked out of it, as it were, into the space between the pleura costalis and pleura pul- monalis, and this process would go on, till the lungs of the wounded side were completely col- lapsed. But, in the case of a fractured rib, or narrow stab, in which there is also a breach in the pleura costalis, without any free vent out- ward, for the air, which gets out of the lung into the cavity of the pleura, as soon as the expiratory powers lessen the capacity of the chest, this air, not being able to pass back through the breach in the collapsed lung, is forced through the lace- ration, or wound, in the pleura costalis, into the common cellular substance. It is through the communicating cells of this structure, that the air becomes most extensively diffused over the whole body, in proportion as the expiratory muscles continue in their turn to lessen the capacity of the chest, and pump the air, as it were, through the breach in the pleura costalis, immediately after it has been drawn out of the wound of the lung, in inspiration. (See John Bell on Wounds of the Breast, and Holliday on Emphysema, 1807.) To prove that the confinement of air in the chest is the cause of the dangerous symptoms attending emphysema, Hewson adverts to the histories of some remarkable cases, published by Littre, Mery, W. Hunter, and Cheston. (See Mem. de l'Acad. Rcynle des Sciences, for 1713, Med. Observations and Inquiries, Vol. 2, and Pa- thological Inquiries.) In Littre’s case, the patient, who had been wounded in the side with a sword, could not breathe, without making the most violent efforts, especially during the latter part of his disease : he died on the fifth day. In Mery’s instance, the fourth and fifth true ribs were broken by a coach passing over the chest; the patient’s respiration was much im- peded from the first, and became more and more difficult till he died, which was on the fourth day after the accident. In Dr. Hunter’s case, the patient had re- ceived a considerable hurt on his side by a fall from his horse. He had a difficulty of breathing, which increased in proportion as the skin be- came elevated and tense, it was laborious as well as frequent. His inspiration was short, and al- most instantaneous, and ended with a catch in the throat, which was produced by the shutting of the glottis : after this he strained to expire for a moment without any noise, then suddenly opening the glottis, he forced out his breath with a sort of groan, and in a hurry, and then quickly inspired again; so that his endeavours seemed to be to keep his lungs always full; inspiration succeeded expiration as fast as possible. He said, his difficulty of breathing was owing to an oppression or tightness across his breast, near the pit of the stomach. He had a little cough, which exasperated his pain, and he brought up blood and phlegm from his lungs. He was re- lieved by scarifications, and recovered. In Mr. Cheston’s case, the man had received a blow on the chest. He had a constant cough, bringing up, after many ineffectual efforts, a frothy discharge, lightly tinctured with blood; he seemed to be in the greatest agonies, and constantly threatened with suffocation. Hi* pulse was irregular, and sometimes scarcely to be felt, his face livid, and, when he was sensible,