ANUS. 197 s',nee the separation of the dead parts happens on t.he outside of the abdominal ring, there almost always remains in this situation a portion of the neck of the hernial sac perfectly sound. It may be said therefore, that, in all cases, immediately after the detachment of the mortified intestine, whether it happen within, or on the outside of the ring, the two orifices of the gut are enveloped in the neck of the hernial sac, which, soon becom- ing adherent to them by the effect of inflamma- tion, serves for a certain time to direct the feces towards the external wound, and to prevent their effusion in the abdomen. In proportion as the outer wound diminishes, the external portion of the neck of the hernial sac also contracts; but, that part, which embraces the orifices of the intes- tine, gradually becomes larger, and at length forms a kind of membranous funnel-shaped, intermediate cavity, which makes the communication between the two parts of the bowel. However, according to Scarpa’s investigation, this adhesion of the neck of the hernial sac, round the two orifices of the gut, does not hinder the latter from gradually quitting the ring, and becoming more and more deeply placed in the cavity of the abdomen. The base of the above described funnel-shaped mem- branous cavity corresponds to the bowel, and its apex tends towards the wound, or fistula. But, in relation to this part of the subject, there are some other circumstances, which every sur- geon should well understand, and his ignorance of them would not be excusable, on the ground of their not having been, like the funnel-shaped membranous cavity, forming the communication between the two orifices of the bowel, only a dis- covery of recent date; for, they were fully ex- plained many years ago. I here allude to the exact position of the two portions of the bowel, with respect to each other, the direction of their orifices, the angle, or ridge between them, and the difference in their diameters. The first of these circumstances, viz. the position of the two parts of the bowel, as we have seen, is pointed out by Mr. Travers, who represents them as oc- cupying a position nearly parallel, and cites an interesting observation recorded by Pipelet. The patient was a woman, 56 years old; the loop of spoiled gut was from five to six inches long; the contents of the bowel were discharged through the wound for a considerable time, and an artifi- cial anus was established. Some accidental ob- struction occurred; a purgative was given, which operated in the natural way, and, in fifteen days, the wound was healed. She lived in perfect health, to the age of 82, when she died of a dis- ease, not connected with this malady. Pipelet examined the body, and has given a figure repre- senting the union. The line of the intestine formed an acute angle, where it adhered to the peritoneum, opposite to the crural arch. The cylinder is evidently much contracted. Pipelet particularly dwells upon the angular position, and 'm?S*r'C*'0n ^*e a* ^'e P°'n*- °f ur|ion. she lower continuation of the intestinal tube was also remarked to be more contracted, than the upper portion, a circumstance, correctly referred uy Mr. I ravers, to the undilated state of the wels, situated between the artificial and the na- tural anus. (See Mem. de L’Acad. de Chir. T. • V- lt>4, and Travers oil Injuries of the Jntcs- /’• 304.) The two ends of the bowel, as Scarpa has observed, are always found lying in a more or less parallel manner by the side of each other; the upper, with its orifice open, and di- rected towards the external wound by the feces, which issue from it, while the lower, which gives passage to nothing, becomes less capacious, and is retracted further into the abdomen. Plence, the breach in the intestinal canal is never repaired by the orifices of the upper and lower portions of the bowels reuniting, coalescing, and running, as it were, into each other. Indeed, they meet at a very acute angle; the axis of one does not cor- respond to that of the other; and their orifices never lie exactly opposite each other. It is in short by means of the funnel-shaped cavity, formed by the remains of the hernial sac, that the two parts of the bowel communicate, and the fe- ces, in order to get from the upper into the lower continuation of the intestine, must first pass in a semicircular track through that funnel-shaped ca- vit}% there being between the orifices of the bowel, directly opposite to the communication be- tween the cavity of the intestine and that of the funnel-shaped membrane, a consider able projection, or jutting angle, forming a material additional ob- stacle to the direct passage of the feces from the upper into the lower portion of the intestinal tube. (Scarpa sull’ Ernie Memorie, Anat. Chirwrgiche, Milano, 1809.) Desault, after noticing the efficiency of the adhesions between the injured part of the bowel and the edge of the opening in the parietes of the abdomen, in preventing extravasation, remarks, that, if such adhesions were entire, the abdominal parietes would form a substitute for the portion of the canal, which has been destroyed, and the contents of the bowel would continue to pass, as usual, towards the anus, if the portions of the in- testine, separated and’adherent to the neighbour- ing parts, did not form such an acute angle as obstructs the passage of the intestinal matter. The more acute this angle is, the greater is the obstruction; when the two parts of the bo>vel lie nearly parallel, the entrance into the lower por- tion of the canal is completely prevented ; but, if they meet at a right angle, then more or less of the contents of the upper portion may be trans- mitted into the lower. The first disposition chiefly happens, when a considerable part of the intesti- nal canal has been destroyed, or when the tube has been completely divided; while the second posture is principally remarked in all cases, where the injury lias been less extensive. And, it is plain, that the possibility of a cure depends ma- terially on the kind of angle, at which the two portions of bowel meet, and that the projection of the internal fraenum, or jutting membranous ridge between the two orifices, is always a greater or lesser obstacle to the cure. With respect to the diminution, which occurs in the diameter of the part of the intestinal canal, between the artificial opening and the natural anus, Desault admits the correctness of the ob- servation, but entirely dissents from such authors as have spoken of the change, as sometimes pro- ceeding so far, that an obliteration of that portion of the intestinal tube is the consequence. *1 he mucus secreted within it suffices for preventing this obliteration; a secretion which, in these cases, is copious, and is partly voided from the rectum, in the form of white flakes. And, if any further