UlUNAllY FISTULAS. 1110 Sir si. Cooper, in Med. Chir. Trims. Vol. 11, p. 349.) Consult T. Loll), a Treatise on Dissolvents of the Stone, livo. Load. 1739. Stephen Hales, Experiments and Observations on Mrs. Stee- vens's Medicines, 8vo. Land. 1741. Morand, Mem. de VAcad, dcs Sciences, 1740 and 1741. </. R-utty, AYtt' Experiments on Joanna Steevens's Medicines, 8vo. Land. 1742. 7A Whytt, ore Essay on the Virtues of Lime Water and Soap, ira the Cure of Stone, 8vo. Edinb. 1761. Z). Hartley, « Fiew of the present Evi- dence for and against Mrs. Steevens's Medi- cine, Bvo.Lond, 1739; and Supplement, 1740. iV. Hulmc, a safe and easy Remedy for the Stone, 8j-c. 4to. Loud. 1778. Butler, Method of Cure for the Stone, chiefly by injec- tions, \‘2mo. Edinb. 1754. B. Langrish, Phy- sical Experiments upon Brutes, in order to dis- cover a safe Method of dissolving Stones in the Bladder by Injections, 8vo. Lond. 1746'. J. Jurin, Effects of Soap-ley, taken internally for the Stone, ‘2d Edit, with an Appendix, 12mo. Lond. 1745. •/• F. Schrelber, De Medica- mento, a J. Steevens, contra calculum divul- gato ine.fficaci ct noxio, Gott. 1744. Murray Forbes, a Treatise upon Gravel and Gout, with an Examination of Dr. Austin's Theory of Stone, an Inquiry into the Operation of Sol- vents, tfc. 8vo. Lond. 1793. W. Austin, a Treatise on the origin and component Parts of the Stone, fyc. 8vo. Lond. 1791. T. Bed- does, on the Nature and Cure of Calculus, Qc. 8vo. Lond. 1793. J. S. Dorsey, an Essay on the Lithontriptic Virtues of the Gastric Liquor, 8vo. Philadelphia, 1802. M. Girardi, De Uva Ur Ana, ejusque ct aquae calcis vi lithontriptica, fyc. Patav. 17 64. Scheelc, in Stockholm Trans. Fourcroy, in Systcme dcs Connoissances Clii- miques. Wollaston, Pearson, and Braude, in Phil. Trans, and Journal of Science and Arts, Vols. 6 and 8, IXc. A. Marcet, on the Chemi- cal History and Medical Treatment of Calcu- lous Disorders, 8 vo. Lond. 1817; a work full of valuable information. Wilson Philip, in Medical Trans. Vol. 6. Dr. Henry, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10. C. Scudamore, on Gout, S[c. Edit. 3. F. Magendie, Recherches Physiologiques et Medicates sur les Causes, S[c. do la Gravelle, 8vo. Paris, 1818. A. Copland Hutchison, on the Comparative Infrequency of Urinary Calculi among Seafaring People, vid. Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 9. R. Smith, a Sta- tistical Inquiry into the Frequency of Stone in the Bladder, in Great Britain and Ireland, vid. Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11. W. Prout, an Inquiry into the Nature and Treatment of Gravel, Calculus, fc. 8vo. Lond. 1821 ; a work abounding in original valuable observations. J. Wilson, on the Structure and Physiology of the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, and the Nature and Treatment of their Diseases, Svo. Lond. 1821 ; this publication contains an ex- cellent summary of the latest observations on the subject,. URINARY FISTULiE. By an urinary fistula, strictly speaking, is implied a deep, nar- row ulcer, which leads into some of the urinary passages: but, this name is likewise applied to tion with these passages, terminate near some point of their course. Thus, in Desault’s works, ( F. 3, p. 287,) three kinds of fistulae, in respect to the urinary passages, are noticed. The first sort is called a blind exteriuil fistula, because it opens only externally; the second blind internal, because it has only one opening into the urinary passages; the third, is termed complete, being attended both with an internal opening into the urinary organs, and one or more external aper- tures. Amongst the blind external fistulae, only such as terminate near the canal of the urethra are particularly noticed in Desault’s works. All fistulae of this kind are originally owing to an abscess, that has formed in the vicinity of the urethra; and, in the article Urinary Abscesses, it has beer, explained, that these suppurations fre- quently originate from disease of that canal. Whatever may be the cause of these fistulas, however, it is not unusual to find, that, after the pus has made its way towards the scrotum or perineum, and discharged itself outwardly, the ulcer is converted into a sinus, which resists all the efforts of nature to heal it. One of the chief circumstances, tending to evince, that the sinus has no communication with the urethra, is, that no urine has ever escaped through the opening; for, with respect to the judgment formed from the impossibility of making a probe touch a catheter in the passage, it must be exceedingly fallacious, because the winding course of the sinus, or the small size of its communication with the urethra, may prevent the instruments from touching each other. According to Desault, the indications in the treatment of these blind fistulce depend upon the nature of their complications. When the sinuses are kept up by a separation of the scrotum from the parietes of the urethra, Desault recommends exact compression to be made over the part, which method, he says, is sometimes sufficient to accomplish a cure. When this plan fails, he states, that the healing of the sinus may be pro- moted by practising an incision on one side of the scrotum, and carrying it as far as the de- nuded portion of the urethra. When sinuses exist, and they depend upon the smallness of the open- ing, or its unfavourable situation for the discharge of the matter, the aperture should be enlarged, by making an incision into the main collec- tion of pus. When there are callosities, which resist cataplasms, and the most active resolvents, Desault advises us to introduce into the fistula, trochees of minium, for the purpose of destroy-! ing the indurated parts. When the bones are^ diseased, exfoliation must be awaited; and, ir every instance, the treatment should vary, ac- cording to the cause, upon which the fistul depends. Blind internal fistulas, or such as communicate with the urethra, but have no external opening^ are sometimes produced in consequence of thd bursting of an abscess into this canal; the ulcera tion, from a retention of urine; a false passage { and the healing of the external part of the wound made in lithotomy, while the internal part is not| united. In these cases, there is a discharge of pu|