324 CATARACT. that its hands were effectually secured, and the as- sistants had only to steady its body, and (ix its head, whilst the child was laid on a table, upon a pillow. Mr. Gibson never found it necessary to use a speculum, having uniformly experienced, that, after the couching needle was introduced, he had no difficulty in commanding the eye, aided bv a slight degree of pressure upon the eyeball with the index arid middle fingers of his left-hand, which were employed in depressing the lower eyelid. He admits, however, that the speculum can easily be applied, if an operator prefer it. He generally used Scarpa’s needle, because, in in- fants, the free rupture of the capsule of the lens ought commonly to be aimed at, in order that the milky cataract may escape, and mix with the aqueous humor; or, if the cataract be soft, that the aqueous humor may be freely admitted to its pulpy substance which has been previously broken down with the needle. He thinks, that no pecu- liarity is necessary in depressing the hard cata- ract of infants. Before Scarpa’s needle was known in this country, Mr. Gibson used Mr. Hev’s, which was generally effectual, and, as he conceives, possesses the recommendation of being less liable to have its point entangled in the iris, lie says, that, when a milky cataract has been thus evacuated, it renders the aqueous humor turbid ; but, that, within the space of two days, the eye generaily acquires its natural transpa- rency, and vision commences. When the cap- sule and substance of the soft cataract have been broken down, and the aqueous humor has come into contact with the lens, the solution and dis- appearance of the cataract, in all the cases, upon which Mr. Gibson has operated, have uniformly taken place, in a short time. The experience of Mr. Gibson curiously differs from that of Mr. Saunders in one respect : he assures us, that although he has met with cataracts in infants hard enough to bear depression, yet, that he has never met with a simple mepibrantius cataract; though this is no uncommon occurrence in patients at the age of eight, or ten, as well as in adults, who have been blind from birth. (See Edinl'. Med. anil Surgical Journal, Vat. 8, p. 398, 399.) For the purpose of fixing the eye, Mr. Ware considered Pellier’s elevator requisite in ope- rating upon infants. When the patient, however, had advanced beyond the age of infancy, Mr. Ware sometimes fixed the eye by means of the fingers alone. For the purpose of puncturing the capsule, and breaking down the cataract, this gentleman gave the preference to an instru- ment, which resembles one recommended by Chelseden, for the purpose of making an arti- ficial pupil; but, it is somewhat narrower. Its blade indeed is so narrow, that it nearly resem- bles a needle. Its extremity is pointed, and it cuts on one side for the space of about the eighth of an inch, the other side being blunt. It is perfectly straight; is an inch long in the blade; and forms a complete wedge through its whole length. Upon one side of the handle is a coloured spot, by attending to which, the operator may always ascertain the position of the instrument in the eye. Mr. Ware dilated the pupil with the extractum belladonna?, softened with a little water, and ap- plied about half an hour before the time of ope- rating. This gentleman believed, that in ope- rating upon infants, the surgeon might perform the operation with more composure, if the patient were laid upon a table, with the head properly raised on a pillow. The bent end of Pellier’s elevator should be introduced under the upper j eyelid, and the instrument committed to the care of an assistant. If the right eye is to undergo the operation, and the surgeon operate with Ids right-hand, he musL of course sit or stand behind the patient; and, in this case, he will himself manage the speculum with his left hand. The eye being thus fixed, Mr. Ware passed the point of the narrow-bladed knife above mentioned through the sclerotica, on the side next to the temple, about the eighth of an inch from the union of that membrane to the cornea, the blunt edge being turned downwards. The instrument was pushed forwards in the same direction, until its point had nearly reached the centre of the crystalline. The point was then brought for- wards, until it had passed through the opaque crystalline and its capsule, and was plainly visible in the anterior chamber. If the cataract was fluid, and the anterior chamber became imme- diately filled with the opaque matter, Mr. Ware deemed it advisable to withdraw the; instrument, and defer further measures until the matter was absorbed, which absorption usually took place in the course of a few days, and sometimes of a few hours. If no visible change were produced in the pupil, the point and cutting edge of the instru- ment were applied in different directions, so as to divide both the opaque crystalline and its capsule into small portions, and, if possible, bring them forwards into the anterior chamber. This may require the instrument to be kept in the eye for a minute or two ; but, if the operator pre- serve his steadiness, he may continue it there a much longer tima without doing the least injury to the iris, or to any other part. If the cataract be found of a firm consistence, (though this rarely happens in young persons,) it may be advisable to depress it below the pupil; and in such a case particular care should be taken to perforate largely the posterior part of the capsule, and to withdraw the instrument immediately after the cataract has been depressed, in order to hinder it from rising again. If the opacity be in the capsule, the in- strument will not act so easily upon it as it docs on the opaque crystalline; but, notwithstanding this, the capsule as well as the crystalline, may be divided by it into larger or smaller portions, which, when thus divided, will be softened by the action of the aqueous humor; and though in the first operation on such case, says Mr. Ware, it may not.Jie possible to remove the opacity, yet, on the second or third attempt, the divided por- tions may be brought forwards into the anterior chamber, in which place, they will then be gra- dually absorbed, and soon disappear. After the operation, Mr. Ware seldom found it neces- sary to take away blood from children, or per- sons under the age of ttventy. He continued a I cooling antiphlogistic treatment a few days. | After this, if any opaque matter remained, he j expedited its absorption by dropping a small por- I tion of powdered sugar into the eye once or twice j a day. When, at the end of a week or ten days, I the inflammation was over, and the pupil w*. t structed with opaque matter, Mr. Ware advised J a repetition of the operation. Afler a sunilM I