330 CATHETER. light leg by ;i stool, or by the hand of an assist- ant. The patient’s head and shoulders are ele- vated by pillows ; but the lower part of the abdo- men is left in a horizontal position. Mr. Hey commonly introduces the catheter with its con- vexity towards the abdomen, and having gently pushed down the point of the instrument, till it becomes stopped by the curvature of the urethra, under the symphysis pubis, he turns the handle towards the navel, pressing at the same time its point. In making the turn, he sometimes keeps the handle at the same distance from the patient’s abdomen, and sometimes makes it gradually re- cede ; but, in either method, he avoids pushing forwards the point of the catheter any farther, than is necessary, to carry it just beyond the an- gle of the symphysis pubis. When he feels that the point is beyond that part, he pulls the cathe- ter gently towards him, hooking, as it were, the point of the instrument upon the pubes. He then depresses the handle, making it describe a portion of a circle, the centre of which is the angle of the pubis. When the handle of the catheter is brought into a horizontal position, with the concave side of the instrument upwards, he pushes forwards the point, keeping it close to the interior surface of the symphysis pubis ; for when passing in this direction, it will not hitch upon the prostate gland, nor injure the mem- branous part of the urethra. If the surgeon uses a flexible catheter, covered with elastic gum, it is of great consequence to have the stilet made of some firm metallic sub- stance, and of a proper thickness. M r. Hey always makes use of brass wire for the purpose. If the stilet is too slender, the catheter will not preserve the same curvature during the operation ; and it will be difficult to make the point pass upwards behind the symphysis pubis in a proper direction. If the stilet is too thick, it is withdrawn with difficulty. When the stilet is of a proper thickness, this instrument has one advantage over the silver catheter, which is, that its curvature may be in- creased while it is in the urethra, which is often of great use, when the point approaches the pro- state gland. In all cases, where an elastic gum- catheter is preferred, care must be taken, that it does not pass unnecessarily far into the bladder ; and, if it be too long, a part of it ought to be cut off or a shorter one employed. When the proper manoeuvres with a silver ’ catheter do not succeed, the surgeon must change it, taking a bigger or more slender .one, with a greater or less curve, according to such obser- vations as he may have made in his first attempt. But, if the catheter has been of a good form or commodious size, yet lias not passed easily, lie should, instead of choosing a rigid catheter of another size or form, take a flexible one for his second attempt. The flexible catheter is generally slender, and of sufficient length, and its sliaj e maybe accommodated to all occasions, and to all forms of the urethra; for, having a stiff wire, we can give that wire either before or after it4ias passed into the catheter, whatever shape. we please; and what is still of greater importance, we can introduce the instrument without, or wjlli the wire, as circumstance's may require ; or what is nun's advantageous, wo can introduce the wire particularly so as not quite to reach the point of the catheter, but only io within two inches or a little more of this part, by which contrivance the point, if previously warmed, and wrought in the hand, has so much elasticity, that it follows the precise curve ot the urethra, and yet has sufficient ligidity to surmount any slight resistance. If this too fail, and especially, if there he the slight- est reason to suspect, that the resistance is not merely spasmodic, but arises from stricture near the neck of the bladder in a young man, or swell- ing of the prostate in an old one, we may tal e a small bougie, turn up the extremity of it with the Anger and thumb, so as to make it incline towards tlie pubes, and allowing no time for the wax to be softened, pass it quickly down to the obstruction, turn it with a vertical or twisting motion, and make it enter the constricted part. On withdrawing it in about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, the urine generally escapes, or the catheter may now be introduced. (John BeLL's Principles of Surgery, Vol. ‘2, p. 215.) Mr. Hey has found, that, in withdrawing the stilet of an elastic gum catheter, the instrument becomes more curved; and he has availed him- self of this information, by withdrawing the stilet, as he is introducing the catheter beyond the arch of the pubes, bv which artifice the point is raised in the due direction. Mr. Hey says, you may sometimes, though not always, succeed in introducing an elastic ;,rum catheter, by using one which has acquired a con- siderable degree of curvature and firmness, by having had a curved stilet kept in it a long while. Introduce this without the stilet, with its con- cavity towards the abdomen, taking care not to push, on the point of the instrument, after it has reached the symphysis pubis, until its handle is depressed into a horizontal position. When it is necessary to draw off the urine frequently, and the surgeon cannot attend often enough for this purpose, a catheter must be left in the urethra, till an attendant, or the patient himself, has learnt the mode of introducing the instrument. (Her.) Mr. Hey imputes the formation of a false passage, or the rupture of the membranous part of the urethra, generally to the method of pushing forwards the catheter, before its handle.has been depressed. In this manner, the course of the instrument crosses that of the urethra, and the point of the catheter, pressing against the posterior side of the membranous part of the urethra, is easily forced through the coats of that canal. The want,of due curvature in the cathe- ter, and of sufficient bluntness in its point, greatly contribute to facilitate this injury. In this case, the point of the instrument passes more readily into the wound, than onward along the urethra against the symphysis pubis. Without this pres- sure, the point is apt to recede, and not readily enter the membranous part of the urethra. Mr. Hey surmounted a difficulty of this kind, by bending upwards the point ofa silver catheter, so as to keep it more closely in contact with the anterior part of the urethra, and thereby pafS over the wound made in the posterior side of the canal. In the instance alluded to, as it was ne- cessary to leave an elastic gum catheter in the urethra, Mr. Ilcy procured some brass wire of a proper thickness, with which he made a Milet. and, having given it the same curvature as that