VENEREAL DISEASE. 1159 same time, lie admitted, that the situation of many buboes is such, as not to have much sur- face for absorption beyond them; for instance, -he buboes on the body of the penis, arising from -■hancres on the glans, or prepuce. As venereal buboes are an effect, or conse- luence of chancres, or venereal sores, and glan- dular swellings in the] groin may take place iom other kinds of sores, or local irritations, ind even from various constitutional causes, while modern surgeons profess their incapacity always to pronounce the character either of a a rimary sore, or a bubo, bv its first appearance, nd progress, it is evident, that the same diffi- culties present themselves here, as in cases of nrimary sores, respecting the principles, by vhich the treatment should be guided. It is likewise to be remembered, that buboes, when supposed to be decidedly syphilitic, are not, as Mr. Hunter imagined, absolutely incurable without mercury. The firm confidence also, 'hich Mr. Hunter had in the doctrine of the be- nefit derived from the practice of rubbing mer- ury into surfaces, from which it would be con- veyed directly to the diseased glands, so as both >3 resolve the swelling and preserve the consti- ■ ution, is net now regarded as an unquestionable .ubject. As Mr. Bacot has judiciously remarked, here is some inconsistence in Mr. Hunter’s own tatements upon this point; for, in one place he ffirms, tiiat mercury, applied to the legs and idiighs for the cure of a chancre, will sometimes ause, instead of disperse, a bubo. (P. 404.) Und, Mr. Bacot believes himself, that mercury * s frequently promotes the suppuration of bu- >:oes, as their dispersion. (On Syphilis, p. 74.) find, respecting the practice of trying to make ne mercury pass through the diseased glands, Jr. Hunter rather contradicts himself in another age, where he confesses his own doubts of its tility in suppurated buboes. However, Mr. Hunter admits, that mercury alone is not always apable of effecting the cure of such buboes, as re deemed venereal; and when the inflammation ises very high, he approves of bleeding, purging, nd fomentations. When the inflammation is rysipelatous, lie has a high opinion of bark; and, 'hen it is scrophulous, he praises hemlock,, and oulticcs made with sea water. He was also ware of the fact of emetics sometimes occasion- tg the absorption of the matter of buboes, after ; is distinctly formed If there is generally great difficulty in pro- ouncing at first the nature of a primary sore, as 3 the question of its being syphilitic or not, the ame difficulty must occur with respect to judg- ig of the glandular swellings, excited by it. And, n this account, and from the encouraging cir. umstances, that all buboes may be cured without lercury, and that the course of the venereal dis- ase, unresisted by that mineral, is not so terrible nd incurable, as used to be supposed, some sur- ;eons,instead of having immediate recourse to mer- ury, prefer a little delay, in order te see, whether he swelling will subside, or not, under the use of ommon antiphlogistic means. Thus, Dr. Ilen- icn disapproves of using mercury immediately a moo presents itself; and he stales, that the same irinciples, which guide him in the primary ul- ’ors, would have the same if not greater force, in he case of buboes. " In their irritable state (says he) I consider meicury altogether inad- missible.” (On Military Surgery, Ed. L2, p. 518.) Although the correctness of some of the prin- ciples, by which Mr. Hunter regulated his prac- tice in buboes, must now be questionable, inas- much as he calculates too much on the absolute necessity for mercury, and on the usefulness of making it pass through the diseased glands, I conceive, that some of his directions are yet too important to be excluded from this work. He says, the quantity of mercury, necessary for the resolution of a bubo, must be proportioned to the obstinacy of the complaint; but that cure must be taken not to extend the employment of the medicine so far as to produce certain ejects on the constitution. When the bubo is in a situa- tion, which admits of a large quantity of mercury being rubbed in, so as to pass through the swell- ing, and when the complaint readily yields to the use of half a drachm of mercurial ointment, every night, the mouth not becoming sore, or at most, only tender, Mr. Hunter thinks it suf- ficient to pursue this course, till the gland is re- duced to its natural size. In this manner, the constitution will probably be safe, provided the chancre, which may have caused the bubo, heals at the same time. When the mouth is not af- fected in six, or eight days, and the gland does not readily resolve, then two scruples, or a drachm, may be applied every night; and, con- tinues Mr. Hunter, if there should still be no amendment, even more must be rubbed in. In short (says he) if the reduction is obstinate, the mercury must be pushed as far as can be done without a salivation• When there is a bubo on each side, so much mercury cannot be made to pass through each, as the constitution in general will not bear this method. However, Mr. Hunter sanctions the plan of minding the soreness of the mouth less in this kind of case; though, he adds, that is better to let the buboes proceed to suppuration, than to load the system with too much mer- cury. When the-situation of buboes will notallow an adequate quantity of absorbed mercury to pass through tiiern, the frictions must be continued in order to affect the constitution; but, according to Mr. Hunter in this case, more mercury will be requisite, than when the remedy can be made to pass directly through the diseased gland ; an assertion, which may now be doubted. Many buboes remain, without either coming to resolution, or suppuration; and, notwith- standing every attempt to promote these changes, the glands become hard and scirrhous. Mr. Hunter conceived, that these cases are either scrophulous at first, or become so as soon as the venereal disposition is removed. He advises the use of hemlock, sea-water, poultices, and sea-bathing. According to a modern surgeon, of judgment and considerable experience, when buboes arc in a chronic stationary state, the application of blisters to the swelling is attended with the most beneficial effects. And, lie rightly observes, that when such tumors are extremely hard and indo- lent, it is more advantageous to let the patient have the benefit of the open air, exercise, and his accustomed mode of living, than to Confine him