even as late as I 50 years ago. Frere Jacques 769 best surgeons in F.urope, most strangely prac- LITHOTOMY. thus into the bladder. The urine now flowed holding it on one side, in such a manner as not r the other methods, having been continued to the commencement of the 16 th century; and it was performed at Bourdeaux, Paris, and other places in France, on patients of all ages, by Raoux, occasionally had recourse to it; and it was suc- cessfully executed by Heister. (Part 2, chap. 140.) A modern author recommends it always to be preferred on boys, under fourteen. (Allan, P 12.) APPARATUS MAJOR, So named from the multiplicity of instruments employed ; or the Marian method, from having been first published by Marianus Sanctus, in 1524, as the invention of his master, Johannes de Romanis. (See Marianus dc laptde Vesica: per incisionem extrahendo.) This operation, which came into vogue, as we have noticed, from avaricious causes, was rude and painful in its performance, and very fatal in its consequences. The apology for its intro- duction was the declaration of Hippocrates, that rrounds of membrunous parts are mortal. It was contended, however, that such parts might be dilated with impunity ; and, on this principle of dilatation, Romanis invented a complex and dangerous plan of operating; one very incom- petent to fulfil the end proposed; one, which, though supposed only to dilate, really lacerated the parts. (Burns.) The operator, kneeling on one knee, made an incision, with his razor, along the perinEeum, on one side of the raphe ; and, feeling with his little finger, for the curve of the staff, he opened the membranous part of the urethra; and, fixing the point of the knife in the groove of his staff, gave it to an assistant to hold, while he passed a probe along tl'.e knife into the groove of the staff, and out, and the staff was withdrawn. The operator next took two conductors, a sort of strong iron probes; one, named the female conductor, having in it a groove, like one of our common direc- tors ; the other the male conductor, having a probe point, corresponding with that groove. The grooved, or female conductor, being intro- duced along the probe into the bladder, the probe was withdrawn, and the male conductor passed along the groove of the female one, into the bladder. Then commenced the operation of di- lating. The lithotomist took a conductor in each hand, and, by making their shafts diverge, di- lated, or, in plain language, tore open the pros- tate gland. (J. Bell,) It would be absurd in me to trace the various dilating instruments, contrived for the improve- ment of this barbarous operation, by the Colots, Marcchal, Le Dran, Pare, &c. Among the numerous glaring objections to the apparatus major, we need only notice the cutting the bulb of the urethra, not dividing the membranous part of the urethra, nor the transversalis perinaei mus- cle, which forms a kind of bar across the place where the stone should he extracted ; violent dis- tention of the membranous part of the urethra and neck of the bladder; laceration of these latter parts; large abscesses, extravasation of urine, and gangrene ; frequent impolcney after- wards ; and extensive fatality. Bertrandi even saw the urethra and neck of the bladder torn from the prostate by the violence, employed in this vile method of operating. (Operations de Chir. p. 169.) Pare, Le Dran, Le Cat, Mery, Morn ml, Maresehal, Raw, and all the tised this rash method, for two hundred years, till Frere Jacques, in 1697, taught at Paris the ori- ginal model of lithotomy, as commonly adopted at the present day. OF THE HIGH OPERATION. This method of cutting for the stone was first published in 1556, by Pierre Franco, who, in his Treatise on Hernia, Ed. 1, says, he once performed it on a child with success, but dis- courages the farther practice of it. After him, Rossetus recommended it, with great zeal, in his book intitled Partus Ccesarius, printed in 1591; but he never performed the operation himself. Tolet mentions its having been tried in the Hotel-Dieu, but, without entering into the par- ticular causes of its discontinuance, merely says, that it was found inconvenient. About the year 1719, it was first done in England, by Mr. Douglas; and after him, practised by others.— (Sharp's Operations.) The patient being laid cn a square table, with his legs hanging off, and fastened to the sides of it by a ligature, passed above the knee, his head and body lifted up a little by pillows, so as to re- lax the abdominal muscles, and his hands held steady by some assistants; as much barle\r- water as he could bear, which was often about eight ounces, and sometimes twelve, was injected through a catheter, into the bladder. The bladder being filled, an assistant, in order to prevent the reflux of the water, must grasp the penis, the moment the catheter is withdrawn, to stretch the skin of the abdomen ; then, with a round-edged knife, an incision, about four inches long, was made between the recti and pyramidal muscles, through the membrana adiposa, as deep as the bladder, bringing its extremity almost down to the penis ; after this, with a crooked knife, the incision was continued into the bladder, and car- ried a little under the os pubis; and immediately upon the water’s flowing out, the forefinger of the left hand was introduced, which directed the forceps to the stone. (Sharp's Operations.) Sabatier condemns making the cut in the blad- der from below upward, lest the knife injure the peritonaeum. {Med. Operatoirc, T. 3, p. 160.) Although this is one of the easiest, and, to all appearance, the safest method of operating, se- veral objections soon brought it into disuse. 1. The irritation of a stone often causes such a thickened and contracted state of the bladder, that this viscus will not admit of being distended so as to rise above the pubes. 2. If the opera- tor should break the stone, the fragments can- not be easily washed away, and remaining behind will form a.nucleus for a future stone. 3. Ex- perience has proved, that the high operation is very commonly followed by extravasation of urine, attended with suppuration and gangrenous mischief in the cellular membrane of the.pelvis. This happens because the urine more readily escapes out of the wound in the bladder, than through the urethra ; and also because when the 3 I)