278 CANCER. cfentre, but is considerably paler towards the edges. A blister frequently appears on the apex, which, as it occasions an intolerable itching, is often scratched by the patient. The blister being thus broken, a brown sanies is discharged, and an es- char makes its appearance. Many such pimples are sometimes produced upon one tumor, in con- sequence of the patient’s scratching the part.— (Brom/itld's Obs. Vol. I.) Carbuncles have been distinguished into the benign and malignant kinds; but, as far as the dis- ease can be judged of at present in this country, the distinctions are only fonnded upon the diff rent degrees of violence, with which the disease makes Us attack. Some carbuncles are said to be pesh- tential; while others are not at all infectious. Fortunately, all cases, which are met with in this island, are of the last sort; for, no opportunities of remarking the pestilential anthrax have occur- red in England since the deplorable periods of 1065, and 1666. The carbuncle sometimes appears in persons affected with typhoid fevers, in which case, it is attended with great weight and stiffness of the adjacent parts; the patient is restless and pale, the tongue white, or of a deep red, and moist; the pulse low, urine sometimes pale, sometimes very turbid, with all the other symptoms, in an exag- gerated degree, which attend typhoid fevers. The patient often complains much of his head, either from pain, or giddiness. Sometimes, he is drowsy; at other times, he cannot get the least sleep. Occasionally, he is delirious. The case is also apt to be attended with chilliness, or rigors, and profuse perspirations. The patient is sometimes costive, sometimes afflicted with a profusion of stools ; he generally complains of loss of appe- tite, nausea, and vomiting, takes but little nourish- ment, complains of difficulty of breathing, and is extremely low, with palpitations of the heart, and sometimes faintings. ^See Bromjields Observa- tions, Vol. J, p. 1V‘2.) Sometimes a little slough, of a black colour, appears in the middle of the tumor. This was supposed by the ancients to be a part of the body burnt to a cinder, or hard crust, by the violence of the disease. By some authors, the carbuncle is considered as a sort of gangrenous affection of the cellular substance. (Lntta.) The progress of carbuncles to the gangrenous state is generally quick. Their size is very various ; they have been known to be as large as a plate. Con- siderable local pain and induration always attend the disease. The skin, indeed, has a peculiar feel, like that of brawn. As the complaint ad- vances, several apertures generally form in the tumor. Through these openings, there is dis- charged a greenish, bloody, fetid, irritating mat- ter. The internal sloughing is often very exten- sive, even when no sign of mortification can be outwardly discovered. If attention is paid to the skin in this case, we shall frequently find some miliary eruptions about the clavicles, the breasts, or other parts of the body; and, towards the latter end of the dis- order, a different collection of large pimples Will sometimes be thrown out, like the small-pox, and suppurate. Some of these, indeed, are occasion ally converted into actual carbuncles. It was this species of anthrax, which was called malig- nant, and, certainly, if any cases, seen in this country, demand this epithet more strongly, tha| others, it is the instance, the description of whkr we have just quitted. '1 he constitution is often so low and exhausted that death follows. The carbuncle, indeed most frequent in old persons, whose constitutioii, have been injured by voluptuous living, anj, hence, we cannot be surprised, that the local dik ease, influenced by the general disorder of llj• system, should assume a dangerous aspect. The degree of peril may generally be estimate! by the magnitude and situation of the tumor, tl|| number of such swellings at the same time, t!j| age of the patient, and the state of his constiti)q tion. In cases of anthrax, the duty of a surgeon mdr; be described in a few words. With regard to tlS local treatment, the grand thing is to make ; i early, and free incision into the tumor, so as [* allow the sloughs and matter to escape readil|.| As much of the contents as possible is to be t once pressed out, and then the part is to f covered with an emollient poultice. Indeed, ujil til the tumor is opened, no applications are mot; proper than emollient poultices, and, when at: incision has been made, they are far preferal|»| to any detersive antiseptic injections, made wilt, bark, tincture of myrrh, &c. or to any lotion( made with the sulphates of copper, and ziiftj nitrate of silver, &c.; fomentations will also ;*j found to afford considerable relief, both before ajl after an opening has been made. As the dischar^ is exceedingly fetid and irritating, it will be needs sary to put on a fresh poultice two or three timjn a day. The use of the poultice is to be coi \ tinued, till all the sloughs have separated, ai.) the surface of the cavity appears red, and in {. granulating state, when soft lint and a pledget some unirritating ointment should be applied together with a compress and bandage. Ta manner in which the disease is protracted, by nj a making a proper opening in due time, cannot ll , too strongly impressed upon the mind of evei i practitioner, and it may justly be regarded asj frequent reason of the fatal terminations of n< . merous cases. Mr. Bmmfield forcibly inculcatj the necessity of making a timely opening for tl discharge of the sloughs; for, says he, in ca( you rely on the opening, made by nature, tli.. thin matter only will be discharged; the slough . membranes will remain, and the orifice close ul• (See Vol. l,p. 128.) It was formerly not an uncommon custom . extirpate carbuncles with the knife, or to destre , them with the actual and potential cauterie • The French were very fond of burning the swel ing with a hot iron, the employment of which , sanctioned by Pouteau. (See his (Entires P* h humes). '1 hese methods, having been foun cruelly painful, and, in no manner ad'-antageon , have long been branded with the reproaches ■ i all English surgeons. With respect to the const tutional treatment, we should remember, that tl disease is for the most part met with in bad coi stitutions, and in persons who are weak and 1 ritable. Hence, it is only when there is a u strong pulse, and the complaint is just begimm’i , that bleeding is allowable. Bark and camp 1 are the internal medicines most commonly ncet , ed. The diluted sulphuric acid is also h’fc^ proper, as well as wine and aromatics. A*