302 CATARACT. of the timid patient is fixed ; for a point of the finger is disposed on every side, to which the eye can possibly turn away from the instrument about to be introduced, and when the cornea is gently touched with the extremity of the finger, the wrong position, which the eye is about to take, is immediately prevented. This method of fixing the eye, says Beer, is not merely indispensable for young operators, but is the only perfectly un- objectionable one, which can be employed on this delicate organ, since all mechanical inventions for this purpose, like the speculum oculi, which keeps the eye steady, by considerable pressure, or other contrivances, like Rumpelt’s instrument, which does the same thing by means of a short pointed instrument attached to a kind of thimble, and with which the sclerotica is pierced and held motionless, are found by experience to be worse than useless. And, as a proof of this fact, Beer adverts to the numerous patients, who come out of the hands of such operators as employ these instruments, with a more or less hurtful loss of the vitreous humour, and other .ill consequences : a statement, which nearly agrees with the obser- vations of Wenzel and Ware. Baron Wenzel considers all instruments, for fixing the eye, quite unnecessary : they render the operation more complicated, more dreadful to the patient, more embarrassing to the operator, and are very liable to irritate and wound the eye. If he could approve of any kind of speculum, he should give the preference to Rumpelt’s thimble, at the end of which is a sharp pointed instrument, like the pique of Pamard. The thimble is placed on the middle finger of the operator, and it has the advantage of not obstructing the use of the fore-finger, but leaves it at liberty to keep down the lower eye-lid. The pressure, occasioned by all contrivances for fixing the eye, is a serious objection to their employment, as it is apt to cause a sudden pro- trusion of great part of the vitreous humor. (Wenzel.) The late Mr. Ware coincided with Wenzel, re- specting the general objections to specula. At the same time, he remarks, that, in some instances of children born with cataracts, he had been obliged to fix the eye with a speculum ; without the aid of which, he found it totally impracticable to make the incision through the cornea, with any degree of precision, or safety. His speculum is an oval ring, the longest diameter of which is about twice as long as the diameter of the cornea, and the shortest about half as long again as this tunic. Annexed to the upper rim of the speculum is a rest, or shoulder, to support the upper eye lid, and, by its lower rim, it is fixed to a handle of such a length, and bent in such a way, as may render it convenient to be held. ( Ware.) Nor does Beer entertain a higher opinion of other inventions, made for the purpose of enabling surgeons to operate on both eyes with the right hand ; for, says lie, the right eye should always be operated upon with the 'left-hand, and the left with the right, and he who cannot learn to be equally skilful with both his hands, must always remain a bungler. (Lthrc von dtn Augenkr. B. ‘J, v. 347-350.) Mr. Alexander, whose great skill in operations on the eye is universally acknowledged, employs no assistant for raising the upper eye-lid, or lix-fl ing the eye, which objects he accomplishes him- self ; and, in Germany, this independent mode# of proceeding has been particularly commended# by Barth. (Etwus liber die Ausziehung des gruu-i e.n Staure, J ar den geubten Operateur, livo. Wien4 1797.) The preceding directions, respecting the posi-w \ion of the assistant, the seats for the patient andl| surgeon, and the mode of fixing the eye, are# chiefly those of Professor Beer. Whether theses] instructions are in every respect better than the* following, which combine the sentiments of some* other writers of experience, the impartial reader! must judge for himself. The patient should bel seated rather low, opposite a window where the# light is not vivid, and in such a manner, that the# rays may fall laterally upon the eye about to bea couched. The other eye, whether in a healthy or diseased state, ought always to be closed, andi covered with a handkerchief, or any thing convenient for the purpose; for, so strong is the sympathybetween the two organs, that the motion^ of the one constantly produce a disturbance of thet other. The surgeon should sit upon a seat, ratherf higher than that upon which the patient is placed 3 and, in order to give his hand a greater degree off steadiness in the various manoeuvres of the opera-* tion, he will find it useful, to place his elbow upon* his knee, which must be sufficiently raised for this purpose, by a stool placed under the foot. The chair, on which the patient sirs, ought to have a high back, against which his head may be so firmly supported, that he cannot draw itbackward during! the operation. The back of the chair must not| slope backward, as that of a common one, but b3 quite perpendicular, in order that the patient's head may not be too distant from the surgeon's! breast. (Richter’s Anfangsgr. der Wuiiditrzn. p. 207, 3 B.) The propriety of supporting the patient’s headjj rather upon the back of the chair, on which ha? sits, than upon an assistant’s breast, as Bischofllj| has observed, is founded upon a consideration, thatjl the least motion of the assistant, even that neces->* sarily occasioned by respiration, causes, also, H ! synchronous motion of the part, supported on hia breast, which cannot fail to be disadvantageous^ both in the operation of extraction, and of couch-* ing. Hence, Callisen and Richter, both recom-i mended the method of supporting the patient’s head against the perpendicular back of the ehair But, as this is not at present the common prac- tice, possibly, the inconvenience of having the back of the chair between the assistant and the patient, may more than counterbalance the circumstance, in which it seems to be ad- vantageous. In certain cases, where the muscles of the eye, and eye-lids, are incessantly affected with s^ism; or, where the eye is peculiarly diminu- tive, and sunk as it were, in the orbit, the ele- vator for the upper eye-lid, invented by Pellier, and approved by Scarpa, may possibly prove serviceable: in young subjects, I think it might contribute much to facilitate the operation. The particular sentiments of Wenzel and Vi are, concerning the mode of fixing the eye, will be fuf-: ther explained in the description of the extraction > of the cataract.