HEAD. 5 re ng symptoms, followed sometimes by the most fatal consequences, are found to attend great violence ottered to the head; and, upon the strictest examination both of the living and the dead, neither fissure, fracture, nor extravasation of any kind can he discovered. The same sym- ptoms, and the same event, are met with, when the head has received no injury at all ah externo, but has only been violently shaken ; nay, when only the body, or general frame, has seemed to have sustained the whole violence.” And he afterwards remarks, that “ the symptoms at- tending a concussion are generally in proportion tt> the degree of violence, which the brain itself has sustained, and which, indeed, is cognizable only by the symptoms. If the concussion be very great, all sense and power of motion are immediately abolished, and death follows soon ; but, between this degree, and that slight con- fusion (or stunning, as it is called) which attends most violences, done to the head, there are many stages.” I am of opinion, that Mr. Abernethy has particularly excelled other writers, in his description of the symptoms of concussion, which, he thinks, may be divided into three stages.- “ The first is, that state of insensibility and derangement of the bodily powers, which imme- diately succeeds the accident. While it lasts, the patient scarcely feels any injury that may be inflicted on him. His breathing is difficult, but in general without stertor; bis pulse inter- mitting, and his extremities cold. But such a state cannot last long; it goes off gradually, and is succeeded by another, which I consider as the second stage of concussion. In this, the pulse and respiration become better, and, though not regularly performed, are sufficient to main- tain life, and to diffuse warmth over the extreme parts of the body. The feeling of the patient is now so far restored, that he is sensible if his skin be pinched; but lie lies stupid, and inat- tentive to slight external impressions. As the effects of concussion diminish, lie becomes capa- ble of replying to questions put to him in a loud tone of voice, especially when they refer to his chief suffering at the time, as pain in the head, &c. ; otherwise, lie answers incoherently, and as if his attention was occupied by something else. As long as the stupor remains, the inflammation of the brain seems to be moderate ; but as the former abates, the latter seldom fails to increase; and this constitutes the third stage, which is the most important of the series of effects proceeding from concussion. “ These several stages vary considerably in their degree and duration ; but more or less of each will be found to take place in every in- stance where the brain has been violently shaken. Whether they bear any certain proportion to each other or not, I do not know. Indeed, this will depend upon such a variety of circumstances in the constitution, the injury, and the after- treatment, that it must be difficult to determine. “ With regard to the treatment of concussion, it would appear, that in the first stage very little can be done; and, perhaps, what little is done, had better be omitted, as the brain and nerves are probably insensible to any stimulants that can be employed. From a loose, and, I think, fallacious analogy between the insensibility in fainting, the and that which occurs in concussion, more powerful stimulants, such as wine, brandy, and volatile alkali, are commonly bad recourse to, as soon as the patient can be got to swallow. The same reasoning which led to the employment of these remedies in the first stage, in order to recall sensibility, lias given a kind of sanction to their repetition in the second, with a view to continue and increase it. “But here the practice becomes more per- nicious and less defensible. The circumstance of the brain having so far recovered its powers, as to carry on the animal functions in a degree sufficient to maintain fife, is surely a strong ar- gument that it will continue to do so, without the aid of means which probably tend to exhaust parts already weakened, by the violent action they induce. “ And it seems probable, that these stimu- lating liquors will aggravate that inflammation which must sooner or later ensue.” (Essay on Injuries of the Head, p. 59.) The following passage, extracted from a writer, who has already been of material assist- ance to us on this subject, cannot be too deeplv impressed on the memory of every surgical practitioner. “To distinguish between an extravasation and a commotion, by the symptoms only, is fre- quently a very difficult matter, sometimes an impossible one. The similarity of the effects in some cases, and the very small space of time which may intervene between the going off of the one and accession of the other, render this a very nice exercise of the judgment The first stun- ning or deprivation of sense, whether total or partial, may be from either, and no man can tell from which; but when these first symptoms have been removed, or have spontaneously dis- appeared ; if such patient is again oppressed with drowsiness, or stupidity, or total or partial loss of sense, it then becomes most probable, that the first complaints were from commotion, and that the latter are from extravasation; and the greater the distance of time between the’two, the greater is the probability not only that an extravasation is the cause, but that the extravasation is of the limpid kind, made gradatim, and within the brain. “ Whoever seriouslv reflects on the nature of these two causes of evil within the cranium, and considers them as liable to frequent combination in the same subject, and at the same time consi- ders, that in many instances no degree of in- formation can be obtained from the only person capable of giving it (the patient), will imme- diately be sensible, how very difficult a part a practitioner has to act in many of these cases, and how very unjust it must be to call that ig- norance, which is only a just diffidence arising from the obscurity of the subject, and the im- possibility of attaining materials to form a clear judgment. “ When there is no reason to apprehend any other injury, and commotion seems to be the sole disease, plentiful evacuation by phlebotomy and lenient cathartics, a dark room, the most perfect quietude, and a very low regimen, are the only means in our power; and are some* times successful.” (Pott.) With these means should also be associated the constant application to the bead of cloth* i »t- i t. : u