MORTIFICATION. SIC cases of fractures, paralysis from disease of Hie vertebrae, Ac. 1 he mischief most readily occurs where the bones have the least flesh upon them, and, consequently, where all external pressure has the greatest effect; as, for instance, about the os sacrum, os ilium, spines of the scapulae, &c. I he disordered part always first becomes sol', livid, red at the circumference, and cedematous, afterwards losing its sensibility, and acquiring a black appearance: at length, it is converted into a foul sloughing ulcer. Though long continuance in the same posture is the grand cause of this kind of mortification, yet incidental circumstances arc frequently com- bined with it, and have great influence over the disorder. These are, great debility, the same state of the system, as exists in typhus fever, im- pure air, unclean bedding, &c. There are some causes, which produce death in a part at once, by the violence of their opera- tion. A very powerful blow on any portion of the body may destroy the vitality of the fibres and vessels in this suddSn manner. Lightning, strong concentrated acids, and gunshot violence, sometimes act in a similar way. When a ball enters the substance of parts with great force and rapidity, many of the fibres, which are in its track, are frequently killed at once, and must be thrown off in the form of sloughs, before the wound can granulate and heal. (See Hunter on Gunshot Wounds.) Cold is often another cause of mortification, and,' when parts which have been frozen, or frostbitten, are suddenly warmed, they are parti- cularly apt to slough. I find in Baron Larrey’s valuable publication, some interesting observations on the gangrene from cold. He acquaints us, that after the bat- tle of Eylau, one of the most grievous events, to which the French soldiers were exposed, was the freezing of their feet, toes, noses, and ears : few of the vanguard escaped the affliction. In some, the mortification was confined to the sur- face of the integuments of the toes, or heels; in some, the skin mortified more deeply, and to a greater or lesser extent; while, in others, the whole of the toes, or foot, was destroyed. (See Programmei quo frigoris acnoris in corpore humano effect us expend'd. Haller, Disp. ad Morb. IJps. 175.5.) “ All the writers on this species of mortifi- cation (says Larrey) have considered cold as the determining cause; but, if we attend to the period when the complaint begins its progress, and the phenomena, which accompany it, we shall be convinced, that cold is merely the predis- posing cause. In fact, during the three or four exceedingly cold days, which preceded the battle of Eylau (the mercury having then fallen to 10, II 12, 13, Id, and 15 degrees below zero of Reaumur’s thermometer), and until the second day after the battle, not a soldier complained of any symptom depending upon the freezing of parts. Nevertheless, they had passed these days', and a great portion of the nights of the 5, 6 7 8, and 9th of Feb. in the snow, and the most severe frost. The impel ial guard espe- cially bad remained upon watch in the snow, hardly moving at all for more than four and twenty hours, yet no soldier presented himself at the ambulance,* nor did any one complain r his feet being frozen. In the night of the Ot and 10th of February, the temperature suddcul rose, the mercury ascending to .3, 4, and 5 de grees above zero. A great quantity of sleet i that fell on the morning of the I Oth, was th forerunner of the thaw, which took place in th course of that day, and continued in the sam degree for several days. From this moment j many soldiers of the guards arid the line applicl for succour, complaining of acute pain in till feet, and of numbness, heaviness, and pricking* in the extremities. The parts were scarcely swollen, and of an obscure red colour. In sorm cases, a slight redness was perceptible about th base of the toes, and on the back of the foot i In others, the toes were destitute of motion, sen sibility, and warmth, being already black, and, a i it were, dried. All the patients assured me, tha they had not experienced any painful sensation during the severe cold, to which they had been exposed on the night watches of the" .5, 6, 7, 8 and 9th of February, and that it was not till th< night of the I Oth, when the temperature had risen from 18 to 20 degrees, that they felt the firs effects of the cold.” It is.further noticed by Larrey, that such patients as had opportune ties of warming themselves in the town, on at the fires of the night-watches, suffered in tin greatest degree. (See Larrcffs Me moires dA Chirnrgie MilUairc, T. 3, p. GO—62.) Sometimes mortification seems to depenc either upon the operation of some infectious prim eiple, or, at all events, upon causes, which simul- taneously affect numerous individuals; for in- stances have been known, in which almost all the ulcers and wounds in large hospitals became nearly at the same time affected with gan-j grenous mischief. (See Hospital Gangrene.) j Mortification is very frequently occasioned bj( the injury which parts sustain from the applicaJ tion of fire, and heated substances to them. When the heat is very great, the substance o the hotly is even decomposed, and of courst killed at once. On other occasions, when th* heat has not been so violent, nor sufficiently Ions I applied, inflammatory symptoms precede thd slouching. Cutaneous texture is that in which we have the best opportunity of observing the pheno- mena and progress of gangrene. When it oc- curs as a consequence of inflammation, the coloi i| of the skin changes from the florid red to «• darker shade ; and in the progress of the diseas* it acquires a livid hue. The cuticle often sepa- rates at certain points from the skin, and the vesieations, termed phlycteme, are formed, whicl usually contain a bloody-coloured serum. As j sphacelus comes on, the livid hue disappears and a slough is formed, which is sometimes ash- * The ambulances of the French army an caravans, furnished with an adequate number o: surgeons, and every requisite for the dressing of wounds, and the immediate performance o operations, upon which last circumstance, in par- ticular, the life of the wounded soldier often de- pends. These caravans follow the most rnpit movements of the army, and are always capablii of keeping up with the vanguard.