HERNIA. CIS markable consistence, and a yellowish colour. Such alteration, however, does not prevent the muscular texture from being discovered, and Haller was not mistaken about it. (Opuac. Pa- iholog. p. 3170 Pathology furnishes us with several examples of similar changes of organi- zation. In certain cases, the muscular coat of the bladder, that of the stomach and intestines, and even the exceedingly delicate fleshy fibres of the ligaments of the colon, are found to have become yellow, and much thickened. “ In old scrotal hernia; (says Scarpa) it is not unusual to find an intimate adhesion ot the fibres of the cremaster muscle to the edges of the abdominal ring. This may depend on the pressure, which the contents of the hernia makes on those edges, and perhaps it may also depend on the union of the cremaster muscle with the prolongation of the aponeurosis of the fascia lata, which is continued from the margins of the ring to the groin and scrotum. Howsoever it may be, certain it is, that in old large scrotal hernia;, there is much difficulty in introducing a probe between the fleshy fibres of the cremaster and the margin of the abdominal ring ; and that, on the contrary, in recent hernia;, a probe passes as easily between the edges of the ring and the cre- master, as between this muscle and the hernial sac. “ Few authors (according to Scarpa) have spoken of tfie sheath, formed by the cremaster muscle, in which are enclosed the hernial sac, the spermatic cord, and the tunica vaginalis of the testicle. Sharp (in Critical Enquiry) and Monro, the father, (Anal. and Chirurg. Works, p 553.) were the first to dwell upon this im- portant pathological point. Monro had seen the cremaster muscle covering the hernial sac; but, he did not believe, that the same thing oc- curred in all individuals affected with inguinal hernia. In this respect he was mistaken ; for, this disposition of the cremaster muscle is one ol the essential characters of the disease. Petit has not omitted to describe the relations, which exist between the cremaster and the hernial sac. (Qditvrcs Posthum. T. I, p. 288.) On this subject, he even relates an interesting fact, from which it results, that, in certain cases, this muscle may by its contractions alone cause a reduction of the hernia. Gunz explains, with tolerable perspicuity, how the cremaster and its aponeurosis form one of the coverings of the in- guinal and scrotal hernia. (I Abell as de Hemiis, p. 50.) Morgagni once saw its fleshy fibres extended over the hernial sac; (Dc scd. ct cans, morh. rp'art. 31, art. 0 ; cpi.it. 31, art 15.) and Neubaver positively assures us, that he made the same remark upon the dead body of a man affected with an entero-epiploccle. (Dissert. Epiplo-oscheocele.) After these facts, so positively and accurately observed, I cannot comprehend (says Scarpa) how in our time * ott, Richter, and several other authors should have passed over in silence, or only mentioned vaguely, this point, so important in the history of the inguinal and scrotal hernia.” Scarpa, Crnitd ties Ilernks, p. 48—50.) When surgeons speak of a hernial sac being usually thicker and stronger, in proportion to t ic magnitude and duration of the hernia, their language is not at all correct; for, in fact, the peiitoneal investment of the hernia is seldom, or never, thus altered. I can declare (says Scarpa) after numerous observations, that, in the ma- jority of cases, the hernial sac, strictly so called, is not perceptibly thickened, and that in general it does not differ from other parts of the peri- tonaeum, however large and old the scrotal hernia may be. ( Traitc dcs Hernics, p. 53.) In a very enormous hernia, the pressure of the contents is so great, that, instead of thicken- ing the sac, it renders it thinner, and even makes it ulcerate. The protruded viscera have been met with immediately beneath the integuments, when the sac has been burst by a blow. (Cooper ; J. L. Petit.) The outer surface' of the peritoneal part of the hernial sac, is always most closely adherent to the other more external covering by means of cellular substance. This connexion is formed so soon, after the first occurrence of a hernia, that any hopes of returning a hernial sac into the abdomen are now generally considered as chimerical. There must, however, be a certain space of time, before adhesions form, though it is, no doubt, exceedingly short. Upon this point, Scarpa does not adopt the opinion commonly received. There is no doubt, he observes, that in recent and small inguinal hernioe, the intestine, stran- gulated by the neck of the hernial sac, has been known, in more instances than one, to have been reduced by the taxis, and carried with it the whole of the sac into the abdomen. Observa- tions, not less authentic, inform us, that, after the operation for hernia, when the viscera could not be reduced on account of their adhesions to the sac, they have been seen, notwithstanding such adhesions, to get nearer to the ring daily, and, a( length, spontaneously to return into the belly together with the hernial sac. Louis, lie thinks, was wrong in denying the possibility of these facts. (Acad. Royale de C/nr. T. II, p. 486.) Scarpa argues that, “ under certain circum- stances, the cellular substance will bear, without laceration, a considerable elongation, and after- wards shrink again Thus, we often see a viscus, which has suffered a considerable dis- placement, return spontaneously into its natural situation. In the inguinal hernia, the spermatic cord is elongated, and descends farther, than in the natural state. No laceration of the cellular substance, however, is then occasioned ; for, if the hernia be kept reduced, the spermatic cord becomes shorter, daily retracts, and at last has only the same length, which it had previously to the disease. \V hen a sarcocele becomes large and heavy, the portion of the spermatic cord naturally situated within the belly, is by degrees drawn out into the scrotum; but, after the tu- mor is extirpated, this portion ascends again, and of itself returns into its original situation. “ The same thing happens after the operation for the strangulated inguinal hernia. All prac- titioners have noticed, that the hernial sac retracts and rcascends progressively towards the ring. This alone would prove, that the cellular sub- stance, which surrounds the spermatic cord, and unites it to the hernial sac, is highly endued with the property of yielding, and alterwards return- ing to its original state. Can the same property be refused to the cellular substance, which unites