4G AMAUROSIS. tunity of seeing, tlic prognosis is always un- favourable when the blindness is complete, and particularly when there is a manifest diseased change in the transparent parts of the eye; for, in the latter case, he has known patients remain perfectly blind, though the secretion of milk had been most successfully and expeditiously re- established. In one instance, the remedies applied to the breast, instead of reproducing the secretion of miik, excited in the part a painful inflammation and abscess, during which the weakness of sight subsided, though it was very considerable. In considering other analogous cases of amau- rosis, enough has already been said concerning the first and most important indication, namely, the re-establishment of the action which is ob- structed ; and here the only question is, about the manner in which that object can be most ex- peditiously and safely effected. For, says Beer, it should be distinctly understood, that the pre- vention of a complete amaurotic blindness essen- tially depends not only upon the renewal of the secretion from the breasts, but upon this change being made without delay. The remedies, which Beer has found most effectual for this purpose, are warm poultices applied to the breasts, and at first composed of simple emollients, and after- wards of more stimulating ingredients, such as hemlock, camomile flowers, &c. When the breasts have more of a leucophlegmatie appearance, than that indicative of a fulness of the mammary gland, and disposition to a renewal of the milk-secretion, Beer strengthens these poultices with aromatic herbs, and applies them alternately with well- warmed bags, full of dry aromatic plants, and sprinkled with camphor. These last means are very useful at night, or when the patient is asleep, and fresh warm poultices cannot be put on suffi- ciently often. In the day time, the breasts should be frequently and gently rubbed with warm flan- nels, medicated with olibanum and mastick. This plan is to be followed up until the secretion and excretion of milk are renewed, and the amaurotic amblyopia has subsided. When the secretion .either cannot be restored by the foregoing means, .or the eyesight does not return with the re- established secretion, internal remedies must be tried, especially arnica, joined with calomel and camphor. Issues or setons should also be formed, and kept open for a considerable time. Such is the treatment by which Beer once succeeded in stopping the increase of this kind of amaurosis, though the result was not indeed what could be named a cure. (Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2. p. 572—75 ) 7. Of the symptomatic amaurosis from morbid changes, either in the optic nerves, and their sheaths, or in the bones of the cranium, or the drain itself. Beer says, a very considerable number of cases of this form of amaurosis which have fallen under his notice, have enabled him, as it were, not only to know it at once, but to describe its exact symptoms. However, he does not mean to as- sert, therefore, that more minute circumstances may not yet exist, which have- hitherto escaped his remark, and which may hereafter be detected by other diligent practitioners, so as to facilitate still more the diagnosis, especially in the early Stage of the disorder. To an indefatigable ob- server many pathological examinations of such amaurotic eyes in dead subjects must occur under unfavourable circumstances, which ex- aminations, if properly connected with a minute history of the cases, might lead to important con- clusions, with respect to the causes of this very interesting, and not uncommon, species of amau- rosis. The title of the present chapter embraces a great diversity of causes, and the result must necessarily be certain modifications of the disease. Beer then commences with a simple relation of the general appearances which always charac- terize this amaurosis.— 1st. Its formation is constantly very slow, and in all cases the patient is not only completely deprived of vision, but, for more or less time previously to his death, is rendered quite incapable of distinguishing light. 2dly, A.second peculiar symptom of this amaurosis consists in morbid changes in the structure of the eye, which changes are at first scarcely perceptible, and increase very slowly. 3dly, The amaurosis either originates during an attack of violent headach, which continues almost uninterruptedly until, death, or the headach does not come on until complete blindness has taken place; or the patient may have no pain whatever either in his eyes, or head. 4thly, In the pro- gress of this amaurosis, objects invariably seem to the patient to be perverted, disfigured, &c. which state of the eyesight is termed by oculists Metamorjiliosia. Symptoms when the disorder proceeds from disease of the optic verves, nr their shenths. This case comes on slowly, and rarely attacks both eyes together. It always commences with a black cloud, which grows more and more dense, and with a troublesome, alarming perversion and disfigurement of every object, without the least painful sensation in the eye or head. The patient merely complains of a slight sensation of dull pressure at the bottom of the orbit, as if the eye-ball were about to be forced from its socket, of which displacement, however, there is not yet the smallest appearance. In the very beginning of the disease, the pupil is already considerably dilated, and the pupillary edge of the motionless iris presents angles at several points, the pupil sometimes representing an irregular pentagon, or hexagon. By degrees, though very slowly, a glaucomatous change of the vitreous humour en- sues, and afterwards of the lens itself, the only species of glaucoma which Beer has ever noticed quite unattended with a varicose affection of the blood-vessels of the eye. At last the globe of the eye becomes perceptibly smaller than natural; but a complete atrophy does not ensue. Symptoms when the case proceeds from disease of the skull or brain. In this form of amaurosis, which usually at- tacks both eyes together, or at least one very soon after the other, the blindness also com- mences very slowly, with appearances as if every object looked at were perverted or disfigured. However, there is no black cloud but rather an obscurity or confusion of every object. The dis- ease in this stage is also accompanied with fre- quent giddiness, ugly luminous spectra, and, for the most part, with aversion to light, uncommon- ly lively motions of the iris, a contracted pupil,