GONQKRHCEA. 5‘JO amongst whom is my intelligent correspondent, Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, have seen great relief derived from the use of a suspensor scroti, or double handkerchief, which, combined with rest and the elevation of the penis, the last men- tioned practitioner has frequently found, indeed, of more service than any thing else. \Y hen the glands of the urethra are enlarged, mercurial ointment may be rubbed on the part; but this will probably be of most service after the inflammation lias subsided. TREATMENT OP GONORRHOEA IN WOMEN. \ This is nearly the same as that of the disease in men, but is more simple. When the disorder is in the vagina, injections are best; and after their use, the external parts should be well washed. It is almost impossible for the patient to throw an injection into the urethra, when it is affected. The same injections are proper as for men; hut they may be made doubly strong. When the glands of the vagina suppurate, and form abscesses, these should be opened, and dressed ; but, the practice of smearing the parts with mercurial ointment, as advised by Mr. Hun- ter, is now entirely abandoned. CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF GONORRIICEA. In many strong plethoric constitutions, the symptoms are violent, and there is a great ten- dency to inflammatory fever. In such instance;;, opiate clysters, though at first productive of re- lief, sometimes occasion in the end fever, and consequently aggravate all the symptoms In these cases, the balsam of capivi, also, sometimes increases the inflammatory symptoms. In a constitution of this kind, the treatment consists chiefly in evacuations, the best of which are bleeding, and gentle purging. The patient must live sparingly, and, above all, use little exercise. In a weak and irritable constitution, the symptoms are frequently violent, the inflam- mation extending beyond the specific distance, running along the urethra, and even affecting the bladder. Here the indication is to strengthen ; and, according to Mr. Hunter, bark alone has been known to effect a cure. All evacuations are hurtful. A fever has been known to stop the discharge, relieve the pain in making water, and finally cure the disease. On other occasions, Mr. Hunter lias seen all the symptoms of gonorrhoea cease on the accession of a fever, and return when the fever was subdued. In other examples, a go- norrhoea mild at first, has been rendered severe by the coming on of a fever, and, upon its sub- sidence, the gonorrhoea has ceased. Although a fever does not always cure a gonorrhoea, yet, as it may do so, nothing should be done while it lasts. If the local complaint should continue after the fever is gone, it is to be treated accord- ing to symptoms. A gonorrhoea mny be .considerably affected by the patient’s manner of living, and by other diseases attacking the constitution. Most things which hurry or increase the circulation, aggra- vate the symptoms; such as violent exercise, drinking strong liquors, eating strong indigestible food, some kinds of which act specifically on the urethra, so as to increase the symptoms more tjian simply heating the body would do; such as peppers, spices, and spirits. In cases which have begun mildly, in which the inflammation is only slight, or in others, in which the violent symptoms have subsided, such medicines as have a tendency to lessen the dis- charge, may be given, together with the local remedies before mentioned. Turpentines are the most efficacious, particularly the balsam of co- paiva, arid eubebs. (See Ed in. Med. mid Sur- gical Jnurrn Jur January 1818, and for the same month, 1819; also IT. Jeffrey’s Pract. Ohs. on Cuhelis; PjVo.Lond. 1821.) Of the latter medicine 3(j may be given thrice in the 24 hours; but with respect to these and all other remedies, which act upon the disease through the medium of the urine, if they succeed at all, it is always within a week, or ten days, from the beginning of their use ; and, therefore, if no amendment take place in this time, they should not be continued. Cantliarides, the salts of lead and copper, and alum, have also been recommended. Mr. Hunter advises small doses of mercury, in consequence of the possibility of absorption, and with a view of preventing lues venerea. TREATMENT OF OCCASIONAL SYMPTOMS OF GONORRHOEA. Bleed mi from the Urethra is sometimes re- lieved by the balsam capivi. Mr. Hunter did not find astringent injections of use. Painful .evictions are greatly prevented by taking twenty drops of tinctura opii at bed time. Cicuta lias also some power in this way; and many surgeons, among whom is Mr. Dunn, of Scarborough, have a favourable opinion of cam- phorated poultices, and of the internal exhibition of camphor; a medicine, which I ought to have mentioned in former editions, as a common means of lessening the pain and inconvenience of erections in the inflammatory stage of gonorrhoea. Chordee. See this word. Bladder affected. Opiate clysters, the warm bath, and bleeding, if the patient is of full habit, are proper. Leeches may be applied to the peri- nasum. When this affection lasts a considerable time, and is not mitigated by common methods, Mr. Hunter advises trying an opiate plaster on the pubes, or the loins, where the nerves of the bladder originate ; or a srnall blister on the peri- naeum. In another place, he mentions bark, cicuta, sea air, and sea bathing, among the pro- per means. Swelled Testicles. See Hernia HumoraliS. For a more full account of Gonorrhoea, ac- cording to the above doctrines, see a Treatise on the Venereal Disease, by John Hunter, from page 29 to 90. ON THE QUESTION, WHETHER GOXORRHCEA IS REALLY A FORM OF THE VENEREAL DIS- EASE? The foregoing remarks, and others in Mr. Hunter’s work, would lead one to believe, that the poison of gonorrhoea and the venereal virus are the same. Here it is my duty impartially to state the arguments, which have been urged for, and against, this important doctrine. Mr. Hunter assures us, that he has seen all the symptoms of lues venerea originating from gonorrhoea only; that he had even produced venereal chancres by inoculating with the matter of gonorrhoea ; and that lie afterwards repeated these experiments in a manner in which he could not be deceived. (If 293, ft fry.) Mr. Hunter’s experiments, it is true, ha\e