891 OPHTHALMY. ’’ As long million and disposition of the pau, anv purulencv remains, Hr* \etch states* thu. e above applications will be much aided by the ily use ol‘ the liquor plumbi subacetatis. When e disease resists these remedies, and tiie surface hard and warty, he applies very minute quan- gos of finely levigated powder of verdigris, or ir;it alum, to the everted surface, with a fine niel’s hair pencil, but carefully washes them oft’ *h a syringe before the eyelid is returned. The ustic potassa, lightly applied to the more pro- inent parts of the diseased surface, will also ;swer. (See Vetch on Diseases of the Eye, 73, 4:c ) Mr. Lloyd also gives his testimony favour of the superiority of the nitrate of Iver, which he has employed in the form of a titrated solution for restoring the healthy state the inner surface of the eyelid. (On Scro- uda, p. S28.) Others, however, still adhere . the practice of excision, which, as already jserved, was followed by the ancients, and re- ived of late years in England by Mr. Saunders, ho did with scissars what Sir W. Adams and thers have subsequently performed with a knife, r lancet. Mr. Travers, I may observe, is also ne of the advocates for the excision of the ranulations and hardened excrescences of the onjunctiva. If there be a nebula of the cornea, ith a plexus of vessels extending to it, these are len divided, near the edge of the cornea, in the lanner recommended by Scarpa. Mr. Travers fterwards applies a solution of the sulphate of |i opper, the liquor plumbi subacetatis, or the inous tincture of opium. One remark which e makes tends very much to confirm the gene- al advantage of the practice inculcated by Dr. /etch; for, it is observed, “ the application of he blue-stone, or of the lunar caustic, is often iseful in preventing the regeneration of the granulations after their excision.” (Synopsis, Jc. p. 272.) My friend Mr. Lawrence, whose .experience in diseases of the eye is very con- siderable, lately informed me, that he finds cau- stic the sure mode of permanently removing the granulated fungous state of the inner surface of the eyelid, and that, when the granulations are cut away, they are frequently reproduced; a fact, on which Dr. Vetch has particularly insisted. Egyptian Ophthalmy. One of the best ac- counts of this disease, as it appeared in the army, is that delivered by Dr. Vetch. Although there can be no doubt, that the disorder, in all its ge- neral characters, closely corresponds to the se- vere form of acute suppurative inflammation of the conjunctiva, as described by Beer; yet, there are some peculiarities, with which it appears to have been characterized. Thus, one thing noticed in the Egyptian ophthalmy, but not in other purulent ophthalmies, is, that the first appear- ance uj inflammation was observable in the lining of the lower eyelid. (Peach, in Edinb. Mai. and Surgical Jo urn. for January, 1807. Vetch, on Discuses of the Eye, p. 196.) Accord- ing to the latter writer, the feeling of dirt, or sand, rolling in the eve is a symptom requiring particular attention, as its accession is a certain • ntlex of the disease being on the increase. It is subject to exacerbations and remissions, the at- ta i always taking place in the evening, or very early in the morning. The first since of the /w is said by Dr. Vetch to be charnel erinc.a by Us great and uniform redness, oyer commu- pain, tension, or intolerance of ligo through accompanies most other forms of octilu,»sent Jlammation; and, in particular, that in whu..* the sclerotic coat is affected. From the very beginning of the complaint, there is a disposition to puffiness in the cellular texture between the conjunctiva and the globe of the eye, often sud- denly swelling out into a state of complete che- mosis, and at other times making a more gra- dual approach to the cornea. Whije effusion is thus taking place upon the eye, oedema is like- wise going on beneath the integuments of the eyelids. This enormous tumefaction of the eye- lids is said to be generally consentaneous with the complete formation of chemosis; entropium is produced, and the integuments of the two eye- lids meet, leaving a deep sulcus between them. When the external swelling begins, the discharge, which was previously moderate, and consisted of pus, floating in a watery fluid, changes into a continued stream of yellow matter, which, di- luted with the lachrymal secretion, greatly exceeds in quantity that derived from any gonorrhoea. Although, says Dr. Vetch, the tumefaction may be, at first, farther advanced in one eye than the other, it generally reaches its greatest height in both about the same. The patient now begins to suffer attacks of excruciating pain in the eye; a certain indication of the extension of the mis- chief. "An occasional sensation, as if needles were thrust into the eye, accompanied with ful- ness and throbbing of the temples, often precedes the deeper seated pain.” This last is often of an intermitting nature, and a period of excru- ciating torture is succeeded by an interval of perfect ease. Sometimes, the pain shifts instanta- neously from one eye to the other, and is sel- dom or never equally severe in both at the same time ; and sometimes instead of being in the eye, it occurs in a circumscribed spot of the bead, which the patient describes by saying, he can cover the part with his finger. Sooner or later, one of these attacks of pain is terminated by a sen- sation of rupture of the cornea, with a gush of scalding water, succeeded by immediate relief to the eye, in which this event has happened, but generally soon followed by an increased violence of the symptoms in the other. At length, the attacks of pain become shorter, and less severe, though they do not cease altogether till after the lapse of many weeks, and even months. During this stage of the disease, according to Dr. Vetch, there is seldom the slightest alteration of the pulse, unless the lancet have been freely em- ployed. The patient's general health is little impaired, his appetite continues natural, but sleep almost totally forsakes him. As the pain abates, the external tumefaction also subsides, and a gaping appearance of the eye- lids succeeds, their edges instead of being inverted, now becoming everted. This is what Dr. Vetch designates as the third stage of the disease. After the swelling of the second stage has subsided, the eyelids are prevented from return- ing to their natural state by the granulated change of the conjunctiva, which lines them; and an eversion of them now occurs in a greater or lesser degree. (Vetch on Diseases of the Eye, p. IDG, 202.) Amongst other interesting 're- marks, made by the same author, Ik stales, lbat