$ # each OPHTHALMY herbs anil camplior, are the When abrasions, or ulcera- onjunctiva, sclerotica, or cor- f tlie lapis divinus, with a large /inous tincture of opium, is com- J the ulcers are large, and on the they may be touched with the bitter /leans of a camel-hair pencil. After / the collyrium, Beer covers the eye again with the bags of aromatic herbs and cam- phor. (See Weller on Diseases of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 218.) Respecting the last applica- tion, I have already expressed my belief, that it is one, which is not likely to obtain credit amongst English surgeons. Scrophulous Ophthalmy. According to Mr. Travers, the inflammation of the conjunctiva, termed strumous, when it has not proceeded to a change of texture, is not marked by any pro- minent local character. “ The vascularity is inconsiderable. This inflammation sometimes accompanies pustule of the sclerotic conjunctiva, in which case, the vascularity is diffused, instead of being partial, as in pure pustular inflammation, and the intolerance of light, characteristic of the strumous inflammation, is present in a greater or lesser degree. It accompanies also the mor- bid secretion of the lids, when the eyeball be- comes affected by the acuteness and duration of that disease, and the pustule on the cornea, especially the variolous pustule. In its simplest form, it is almost peculiar to young children, stationary, marked by a very slight redness of the sclerotic conjunctiva, and the greatest possi- ble degree of intolerance (of light).” The same author attributes the disease to a morbid sym- pathy of the retina with the secreting surfaces of (the primae vise and skin. The following is the treatment, proposed by Mr. Travers for each form of scrophulous ophthalmy : 1. Strumous inflammation., without change of texture, vascularity more or less, intolerance (of light) excessive. Calomel and opium at night; emetic tartar to continued nausea; gentle alvine evacuants; diaphoretic drinks; large open blister on the nape of the neck; leeches; tepid bath ; tepid, or cold water washes, as most agree- able; vapour of opium ; large bonnet shade; no bandages; spacious airy apartments ; and light bed-clothing. 2. With recent diffused opacity of the cor- neal conjunctiva, and vessels raised upon and overshooting the corneal margin. Calomel and opium to slight ptyalism ; purgatives on alternate days; leeches; blisters alternated behind the ears anij on the nape of the neck and temples. As the acute stage passes offi repeated circular sec- tions of the vessels on the sclerotica, near the margin of the cornea. 3. With herpetic ulcers of the cornea. The same; blisters on the temples; as the inflamma- tion yields, solut. argent, nitrat.; vin. opii; solut. cupr. sulph.; dilute zinc lotion. 4. With pustules. If partial, weak zinc, or alum lotion ; ung. hydrarg. nitrat.; occasional infusion of roses with addi- columba Ung. brisk purgatives tional acids; tonic bitters; columba; gentian <Src.; blisters behind the ears, repeated if neces- sary; if the vascularity is diffused by the multi- plication of pustules, or the duration of inflnm- m:iiion. with irritability to light, treatment as in strumous inflammation without breach, sub-acet. plumbi. 5. With injlammatum of the follicles and purifonn discharge. Active measures at first, but not long continued. Blisters; when be- coming chronic, with thickened lids, scarifica- tions ; zinc, alum, or copper wash, dilute; ung. hydr. nitrat.; hydr. nitr. oxid.; sub-acet. cupri; tonics and sedatives; if obstinate, issue or seton. 6. Convalescent state. Infusion of roses; cascarilla ; columba; decoction of bark; with dilute sulphuric, or nitric acid ; steel, rhubarb, and soda ; or magnesia, as aperients; tonic col- lyria and gently stimulant ointments; nutritive diet; country air; shower, or sea-bath, in the warm months. (Travers's Synopsis, &c. p. 92—260, &;c.) When I look at the discordant accounts of what are called scrophulous affections of the eye, and the difference of practice laid down by dif- ferent writers, I leave the subject with an im- pression, that the terms scrophulous and stru- mous are here employed as much at random as in any other cases, which can be specified. In- deed, the attempt to reconcile the various state- ments and descriptions of scrophulous ophthal- my, would puzzle the most able man in the pro- fession ; and it is with this belief, that I avoid con- trasting the sentiments of Beer, Weller, Lloyd, and other modern writers with those already delivered. (See particularly Beer's Lehrc von den Augenkr. B. 1, p. 568, §c.; Weller's Ma- nual of the Diseases of the Eye, Vol. 2, p. 265, $c. ; and Lloyd on Serophula, p. 812, Sft'.j The following observations explain the prac- tice of Scarpa, and the late Mr. Ware. No specific being known for serophula, the treatment, in this instance, rather consists in preventing the aggravation, than in attempting the radical cure of the complaint. Every thing debilitating is hurtful, as all evacuations; indi- gestible food; intense study; a sedentary life ; damp marshy habitations ; uncleanliness ; fre- quent transitions from heat to cold. On the other hand, observing to regulate the action of the bowels with the mildest laxatives; and the administration of bark, either alone or conjoined with the tinct. guaiaci ammoniata, do good. Al- terative medicines, and especially aethiops minc- ralis, from gr. ss. to gr. xx. in the day, taken for a few weeks uninterruptedly ; liquor caleis, in broth or gruel, at first, in the dose of ^iij. at breakfast, and afterwards the same quantity, twice daily for a few months ; together with the uniform observance of a good regimen ; may tend much to abbreviate the duration of this obstinate species of the disease. (Scarpa.) Mr. Ware found, that the addition of xx to xxx gr. of the potassac sulphas to each dose of bark, suffices to keep the bowels in a regular state, when there is a tendency to costiveness. In some cases, in which there was little appear- ance of inflammation, this gentleman found the eyelids so relaxed, and the eyes so irritable, that children would not open their eyes, even in the darkest room. In some of these relaxed cases, very beneficial effects were produced by admi- nistering internally small doses of opium, night and morning, to abate the irritability. Sea- bathing is always serviceable in scrophulous ophthalmy, and, probably the mere residence on