892 OPHTHALMY. return of the army i'rom Egypt. lie thought, however, that the infection was generally com- municated by contact. Mr. Ware observes, some oi the worst cases ot the purulent ophthalmy of children have happened in those, whose mothers were subject to an acrimonious discharge from the vagina at the time of parturition. Some of the worst forms of the purulent ophthalmy in adults have occurred in those, who, either shortly be- fore the attack of the ophthalmy, or, at that very time, laboured either under a gonorrhoea, or a gleet. Mr. Ware does not mean to impute every purulent ophthalmy to such a cause; but, in the majority of adults, whom he has seen af- fected, if the disorder had not been produced by the application of morbid matter, from a diseased eye, it could be traced to a connexion, between the ophthalmy, and disease of the urethra. Other causes, Mr. Ware acknowledges, may contribute to aggravate, and, perhaps, produce the disorder, and the purulent ophthalmy in Egypt has been attributed to a great number. The combined in- fluence of heat and light, of a burning dust con- tinually raised by the wind, and of the heavy dews of the night, may powerfully tend to excite inflam- mations of the eyes. Yet something more must operate in causing the malignant ophthalmy now under consideration; for the same causes operate with equal violence in some other countries, be- sides Egypt, and vet do not produce the same ef- fect; and, in this country, (says Mr. Ware) the disorder prevailed during the last summer, to as great a degree, and upon as great a number of persons within a small district of less than a mile, as it ever did in Egypt; and, yet, beyond this space, on either side, scarcely a person was affected with it. The disorder was certainly brought into this country by the soldiers who returned from Egypt, and was probably com- municated from them to many others. Now, as the action of the atmosphere alone cannot ac- count for the spreading of the disease, ike. Mr. Ware is led to believe, that this particular dis- order is only communicable by absolute contact; that is, by the application of some part of the discharge, which issues, either from the conjunc- tiva of an affected eye, or from some other mem- brane secreting a similar poison, to the conjunc- tiva of the eye of another person. In schools and nurseries, in consequence of children using the same basins and towels, as others who had the complaint, the disease has been communi- cated to nearly twenty in one academy. Hence, Mr. Ware censures the indiscriminate use of those articles, in schools, nurseries, hospitals, ships, and barracks. (P. 14, 15.) That in Egypt the origin of the disease cannot rightly be imputed to the effect of the sand and hot winds of the country, is clearly proved; 1 st. Because, if this were the case, the disease would not be most prevalent in the autumnal season; during the inundation of the Nile. xdly. I he inhabitants of the Delta would not be more sub- ject to it, than the Bedouin Arabs, who live on 'the sands of the desert. Not only the Bedouin Arabs, says Dr. Vetch, remain free from the disease, but Europeans, who arc not particularly exposed to the night air, are also safe ft om its at lucks. “ The nature of military duty prevented our soldiers from using this precaution, and in a particular manner they became victims to the complaint. The men suffered more iii proportion |j to the officers of the English army ; as the latter t enjoyed a better, though often an incomplete} defence from the coldness ami dampness of the i night; and officers, employed in strictly military | duty, suffered more than those attached to the! civil departments.” ( Vetch on Diseases of t/ir|| Eyes, p. 157.) And Assalini remarks, that if I the dust or sand were the sole cause of ophthal-' mia, we ought to be exempted from the disease, where the cause does not exist. The contrary, however, was the case in the Delta, and prin- cipally on the cultivated borders of the Nile, during its inundations. When we were exposed ■ to, the air during the night, we were itnme-! diately attacked with ophthalmia, though the | dust and sand were then under water, Larrey also imputes the origin of the disease to the cold damp nocturnal air, after the great heats of the day. (Gracfe’s Journ. B. t,p.\79.) Whoever reads the account of the Egyptian ophthalmia, as given by Mr. M'Gregorand Dr. Vetch, will be convinced, that the disorder is only' communicable from one person to another by the application of the infectious matter to the eyes. Probably, the common mode of propaga- tion is the inadvertent use of the same towels, or even merely touching the same articles, which have been in the hands of infected persons, who must be supposed occasionally to apply their fingers more or less to the eyelids. In this last way, the commencement of the disease may be accounted for in regiments upon their entering into barracks, which have been quitted by other infected soldiers. “ Flies, in warm weather, (says Mr. M'Gregor) are seen in great numbers surrounding patients labouring under ophthal- mia; and I much suspect are very frequently the medium, by which the disease is communicated.” (iJ. 54.) The matter is observed to be most infectious, when the disease is in an acute state. Dr. Vetch adverts to two important questions, connected with the history of the Egyptian ophthalmy. The first relates to the length of time which the disease has, at different periods, lain dormant, and especially' betw'een the return of the troops from Egypt, and the breaking out of the disease in the 5‘2d regiment. An ex- planation of this fact is attempted by supposing, that the complaint exists, and is liable to a re- newal of its infectious quality, long after the eye seems to have recovered its natural and healthy appearance. Perhaps, it would be as well to be content with the fact, that, in crowded barracks, under particular circumstances, soldiers, who have once had the disease, are very liable to relapses. The other question is, why has the disease pro- duced such ravage in the army' in England, and not in that of France? It is well known, that the French soldiers in Egypt suffered as much as our own troops from the affection, and great numbers of them returned to France with the disease in a chronic form. “ In many (say's M- Roux) the influence of their native climate has sufficed for the removal of all vestige of the dis- order. On the contrary', in others, it has con- tinued in a chronic state, either attended with the loss of one, or of both eyes ; and many of our invalids remain with the affliction. But. it has not been found, that these soldiers, who re- turned from Egypt, have ever communicated a