1050 TREPHINE. plication of the instrument, and that of leaving a quantity of undischarged, compressing fluid, on the surface of the brain. Certainly, many facts on record evince, that the dura ma’ter may be very extensively uncovered, without danger- ous consequences. Sarrau saw a whole parietal bone exfoliate, in consequence of a blow on the head. Blegny relates a similar case; and Saviard makes mention of a woman, "who had lost the upper part of the os fronds, both the parietal bones, and a large portion of the os occipitis, all of which had come away at the same; yet she recovered. Vaugion, however, who also seems to relate this identical case, describes the exfoliation as not being quite so extensive. I am of opinion, notwithstanding these facts, that exposing a large part of the dura mater with the trephine is, by no means, an operation exempt from serious danger. And, what I conceive confirms this statement, is my having known in- stances, in which persons, who had been rashly advised to submit to being trephined, for the cure of violent pains in the head, &e. died, in conse- quence of the operation. I make this observa- tion, well aware of the successful instance of the practice recorded by Schmucker. (Wahmehm. B. 1 ,p. 431.) However, I perfectly coincide with writers, who direct the removal of as much bone, as is necessary in order to be able to remove the whole of the pressure from the surface of the dura mater. The application of the trephine, in cases of large extravasations, must in particular be made several times, when the situation of the fluid does not favour its escape. However, in this cir- cumstance, Sabatier says, that we should not make numerous perforations all along the extent of the extravasation ; but, only a counter-open- ing, as is done on the soft parts. This author expresses his surprise at there not being on re- cord many examples of counter-openings made in the cranium, since analogy demonstrates their utility. I cannot help remarking on this part of the subject, that one very obvious objection to making openings of this kind in the cranium, is the impossibility of knowing with certainty, whether blood lies under any particular part of the skull; whereas,'in abscesses of the soft parts, the surgeon feels the fluctuation of the matter, and knows, that his counter-opening will be made in the cavity containing it. One might also have occasion to make more than one perfora- tion, in order to discharge blood extravasated beneath the skull, when the blow has happened near a suture, to which the dura mater continues adherent; for, a single opening made only on one side of the suture, might only give vent to a part of the extravasation. If we should not find blood lodged under the cranium ; but the dura mater should seem ele- vated, tense, dark-coloured, forming a prominent fluctuating tumor, outward, it may be cautiously opened with a lancet, or bistoury, with a view of letting out any collection of blood underneath. In the article Head, Injuries of I have stated the result of Mr. Abernethy’s experience, in re- gard to the operation of opening the dura mater. This uemlcman found, that the method never ° « i 11.1 I...*, __ 1iL.. serous part of it. The evacuation of any of the compressing fluid must, however, be desirable; and, if the surgeon cannot do more, yet he ha* fulfilled his professional duty. 'l'he utility of trephining is not limited to dis- charging extravasated blood, or matter, lodged underneath the skull. This operation frequently enables us to elevate depressed portions of bone.' The latter object can often be accomplished by merely making one perforation. Sometimes, several perforations are requisite to be made near each other. Authors even state, that it may also become necessary to remove the intervening portions of bone with a pair of cutting forceps. The depressed part may then be easily raised by means of an elevator. Occasionally, indeed, I may say, very often, the best practice is to re- move the depressed portion entirely, when its total separation from the rest of the skull can be accomplished by cutting across the base of the depressed piece. If any splinter stick in the dura mater, and should not admit of being with- drawn, without enlarging the wound in the mem- brane, the surgeon ought not to be afraid of doing this with a sharp instrument. According to some quick-inferring writers, if, after dividing the dura mater, the surface of the brain appears smooth and flabby, with a fluctua- tion, we may conclude there is an abscess in its substance; and these authors, more enterprising with their pens, it is to be hoped,' than with their scalpels, sanction the method of carrying the point of the bistoury to the depth of an inch, if circumstances render so deep a puncture ne- cessary. “ But,” says Richerand, “ prudence forbids us to go further. Cutting the surface of,, the brain causes no pain, and it produces less danger, than one might apprehend; but, expe-, rience and observation have proved, that the essential parts of this organ are situated near its base, and that its surface may be removed zc'dli- mit danger, or pain.” (Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 301, Edit. 3.) After the operation of trephining, the divided scalp is to be placed as nearly as possible in its natural situation, and lightly dressed with a simple pledget of any common unirritating oint- ment. In applying the dressings, the surgeon should invariably keep in view these objects; • namely, to let whatever is put on the wound be as light as possible, not apt to make pressure on the brain, and of a nature, which cannot excite irritation. All stimulants are to be strictly avoided ; nor will any bandage be better, than an ordinary night-cap of sufficient size to be put on with facility. It may be secured with bits of tape, which are to be tied under the jaw. The practitioner should not now conceive that he has done all that he ought to do. I^i him remember the urgent necessity of keeping off; or diminishing, the inflammation of the dura mater and brain, which is still to be feared. Let ■ him bleed the patient largely and repeatedly; ex- hibit saline purges, glvsters, and antiroonials; and if the symptoms continue, let him apply a blister to some part of the head. I shall avoid, however, any repetitions on this subject, by referring to.j Head, Injuries of. The aperture in the skull usually become* closed with soft granulations, which slowly ac- nnirn i lifirH rnnsistence. These almost con- ,