876 OPHTHALMY. all exertions of the lungs, every kind of disturb- ance, an atmosphere impregnated with tobacco- smoke, &c. Having fulfilled the first general indication by removing, if possible, every kind of irritation act- ing upon the eye, the second general indication specified by Beer as proper in the first stage of opli- thalmy, is to be observed, which is to moderate, according to the degree of inflammation, the agency of several things to the effect of which the organ is naturally subjected. Thus, the inflamed eye should not be exercised, even though the eyeball itself may not be im- mediately inflamed; and the operation of the light and air should be diminished partly by green silk eye-shades, and partly by window- blinds. Attention to this rule is still more ne- cessary, when the eyeball itself is affected. With respect to the exclusion of light, it is to be well remembered, that it is only advisable, as Dr. Vetch observes, in the very early stage of in- flammation, the eye becoming more irritable and less manageable, when the access of a moderate degree of light is afterwards prevented. (Vetch on Diseases of the Eye, p. 16.) The third general indication, mentioned by Beer, as proper in the first stage of ophthalmy, when the disorder threatens to extend to the whole organ, and to bring on a febrile disturb- ance of the system, is to conteract these effects by covering the eye with folded linen wet with simple cold water, or vinegar and water; and having recourse to leeches, or when the nature of the case allows, to scarifications. (B. ],p. 242.) Here, however, it merits particular notice, that Beer, in expressing a general preference to cold lotions in the first stage of ophthalmy, dif- fers from Ilichter, Scarpa, and Mr. Travers, (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 250,) all of whom, in the painfully acute stage, recom- mend tepid emollient applications. With regard to leeches, also, the late Mr. Ware objected to their being put on, or very near the eyelids, as they sometimes cause a con- siderable swelling of these parts, and increase, instead of lessening the irritation. In ordinary cases, his method was to apply three on the temple, about an inch and a half from the outer part of the orbit. Scarpa recommends applying the leeches to the vicinity of the eyelids, espe- cially about the inner canthus, on the vena an- gularis, where it joins the frontal, deep orbitar, and transverse vein of the face. Beer prefers nearly the same situation, as that specified by Scarpa, viz. the inner canthus, immediately be- low the under eyelid ; and he forbids the appli- cation of leeches above either canthus, as likely to produce a disagreeable ecchymosis in the cel- lular membrane of the upper eyelid. The num- ber of leeches, and the time, which they should be allowed to suck, he thinks, ought tt> depend upon the severity of the inflammation. Ac- cording to Beer, when this mode of bleeding is to be of any service, the patient will experience a considerable abatement of the throbbing pain, tension, See. in the affected eye. Hence, when any of the leeches fall off'prematurely, the bleed- ing from the bites is to be kept up, with a sponge dipped in warm water, until such relief is felt. In the acute stage, Beer considers the abstrac- tion of blood by means of scarifications rarely admissible. (B. 1, p. 2-13.) Mr. Travers al$0( ’ sets down scarifications of the conjunctiva a*i mostly objectionable in the acute stage; thoughfc1 highly beneficial in the chronic, where the lining I of the eyelids is thickened and over vascular;[,* and a considerable discharge of blood may he i thus obtained, if the operation be briskly donej, with a sharp lancet, and the lower lid kept everted, E. and fomented. The same gentleman states, that cupping has a decided superiority over leeches, L- but that both are well adopted to relieve local■■ congestion. Yet, he deems these methods toofr indirect to answer as substitutes for the lancet,!/ where it is desirable to make the system “ sus-i 1 tain and feel a reduction of power,” in which m! •case, blood must be taken from a vein, or the i | temporal artery. (Synopsis, 8(c. p. 249.) While inflammation of the conjunctiva is described by Dr.; Vetch, as not much affected by bleeding, unless; ! the quantity of blood taken away be such as to i . occasion syncope, he states, that the abstraction l j of blood, in quantities proportioned to the vio- lence of the symptoms, more especially, by, means of cupping and leeches, has for the most • part sufficient control over the various states and i i individual symptoms of sclerotic inflammation. In some obscure cases of what this author i terms amaurotiednflammation, he has seen great benefit derived from the application of leeches to the septum nasi, and he represents their being i; put directly on the conjunctival lining of the eye- : lids, as being sometimes more advantageous, than on the adjacent integuments, the orifices K bleeding with great freedom. (On Diseases of m the Eye, p. 15.) If some of the above remarks are correct, scarifications are rather too boldly praised by the late Mr. Ware, as applicable to the acute stage of ophthalmy. But, supposing the first violence of the attack past, his recommendation of the practice either in the vascular and turgid state of the lining of the eyelids, or in the eversion of the lower one from a similar cause, seems per- fectly unobjectionable. When the upper eyelid was very (Edematous, and its thickness prevented the application of proper remedies to the eye, Mr. Ware also thought a few punctures near the ciliae useful, by causing a discharge of bloody serum, and a quick subsidence of the swelling. : And he speaks of the excision of a piece of the excessively tumid lining of each eyelid, in cases of ophthalmy with eversion, as having afforded great and speedy relief. (Ware on Ophthalmy, : #c. p. 39.) The fourth general indication, enumerated by Beer, is that, which has for its objects a diet and regimen suited to the state of the case, after it has attained a degree, in which its effects begin to be felt throughout the system. When there- fore the plan is to be rigorously practised, the patient’s ordinary diet is to be reduced, and he is to be allowed only vegetable food, cooling drinks, water, weak lemonade, &c. And not merely the eye itself is to be kept at rest, but the whole body. Should the disorder be further advanced, and attended with a great deal of inflammatory fever, the observance of the foregoing indications Mil not suffice for checking the inflammation and preventing suppuration, unless theflfth indica- tion, laid down by Beer, be fulfilled, which if to