3 04G TREPHINE. into view, will no longer be matter of surprise, when it is known, that, amongst sonic surgeons, the operation of the trepan is a thing of course in all fractures of the cranium. Even when the cranium has been denuded, so that the sight can convey due information re- specting the solution of continuity in the bone, care must be taken not to be deceived by a su- ture, or by the groove of a vessel. In cases of doubt, a modern surgical author advises us to scrape the outside of the bone; and he tells us, that, if after the removal of the external scale, the fissure yet appear, and a thread of blood be seen at its outer part, no doubt exists of its being a real fissure. As however making this exami- nation can answer no purpose, except with a view to determining the place where the trepan should be applied, 1 cannot recommend the plan, except where the symptoms are such as to ren- der this information desirable. On the contrary, it appears to me, that all examinations of the bone, made seemingly from mere curiosity, and without any true surgical object, should be de- precated as rash and hurtful. The danger of fractures of the skull does not depend upon the simple solution of continuity: it bears altogether a relation to the concussion and compression of the brain, with which the in- jury of the bone may be complicated. The pressure, which is caused by depressed splinters of bone, is less alarming, inasmuch as the cause of the compression is easy of removal. The pressure arising from extravasated fluid is far more serious, in consequence of the difficulty of ascertaining positively the existence and precise situation of such extravasation. The seat of the extravasation is sometimes between the skull and the dura mater, which has been detached from the bone. More frequently, it occurs either between the dura mater and tu- nica arachnoides ; in the substance of the brain ; or else in the ventricles. The quantity of ex- travasated fluid is generally less in those extra- vasations, which are situated between the dura mater and the skull. The extravasations, which are formed in the substance of the brain itself, are not only more considerable, but also, as they mostly depend upon concussion, are more alarm- ing, than effusions on the surface of the dura mater. It is indeed extremely difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain the situation of the ex- travasated fluid. In such cases, the trepan is likewise of no use; while concussion, when so violent as to produce internal extravasation, is invariably fatal. In extravasations between the dura mater and the skull, which are almost the only cases of the kind, to which surgery can ad- minister relief, when the effused fluid lies under a part of the skull accessible to the trepan, the ex- travasated fluid is almost always small in quan~ tity. The danger, however, is not the less: ten, or twelve drops of fluid are sometimes enough to produce a fatal compression. When the extravasation has happened in the substance of the brain, the compression is far more peril- ous : in short, it may be said to prove with very few exceptions certainly mortal. The danger is not so great, when the extravasation is situated between the skull and dura mater. The lethargy, the degrees of which increase from mere drowsiness into the most perfect coma; and the paralysis of the opposite 6ide of the body to the seat of the extravasation; are the charac- teristic symptoms of this accident in cases of in- jury of the head. Having explained elsewhere (see Head, Injuries of,) some other symptoms, such as stertorous respiration, dilated pupils, &c. which usually indicate pressure on the brain, it is unnecessary here to dwell upon them. The sub- sequent increase of thecoma, and paralytic aflee- tions, and the gradual augmentation of their in- tensity, serve to render these symptoms di- stinguishable from others, which are suddenly brought on by concussion. But there are in- stances, as every man of experience knows, in which concussion ruptures the blood-vessels, and produces an extravasation of blood. In this cir- cumstance, it is obvious, that the symptoms of compression are blended with those of concus- sion. The symptoms proceeding from the latter cause always diminish in proportion to the time, which has elapsed from the moment of the injury; while those of compression succeed, and on the contrary, increase in intensity, in proportion as the quantity of extravasated fluid becomes more considerable. Notwithstanding these distinc- tions, however, it must be acknowledged, that there are many cases, in which the surgeon is obliged to remain in doubt, with regard to the particular cause of the sy'mptoms. This indeci- sion is the more embarrassing, because the opera- tion of the trepan is necessary in cases of extra- vasation, but useless in those of concussion. Even when extravasation is known to exist, the practitioner requires more information ; for, he ought to know the precise situation of the effused fluid. It is true, indeed, that paralysis of one side of the body generally indicates the pressure to be upon the opposite hemisphere of the brain. But, what surgeon would venture to follow the prac- tice advised by Van Swieten, and apply to the suspected side of the head three crowns of the trepan? Possibly, not one of them might fall on the situation of the extravasated fluid. When the skull is broken, the extravasation exists on the same side as the fracture. When it is the effect of concussion, or when the breach of con- tinuity in the skull is what is termed, a counter- fissure; the effusion is generally on the side of the head most remote from the blow. If the pressure is caused by a detachment of the inter- nal table of the skull, the nature of the case can- not be ascertained before the operation of the trepan has been performed on the part of the skull, upon which the violence has acted. When there are two extravasations; one depending upon a fracture, and situated immediately under it, between the dura mater and the skull; the other arising from concussion, and situated at some point directly opposite, either between the dura mater and tunica arachnoides, or within the substance of the brain itself; paralysis may occur ' on the same side as the fracture, and hence, it may be inferred, that the palsy does not always take place on the side opposite to the extravasa- tion. But, says Richerand, an examination of the body' quickly proves, that the case does not devi- ate from the common rule. The extravasation, produced by concussion, being almost invariably more considerable, than that caused by a fracture, accounts for the extension of the palsy to the same side of the body. Sometimes, the side, which is