URETHRA. 1087 thru, rind passing through the divided parts a flexible gum catheter into the bladder. This I have done myself, and have frequently seen it performed by Mr. Hunter, and it always suc- ceeded; neither bringing on so much inflamma- tion as was expected, nor being attended with anv symptoms of irritation. >< This practice has by other surgeons been carried still further; the portion of diseased urethra has been dissected out, and entirely removed ; nor lias so severe an operation always brought on untoward symptoms; and patients have recovered. “ If the membrane of the urethra, when dis- eased, is capable of suffering so much injury, without any consequent svmptoms of irritation, it cannot be doubted, that it will bear with im- punity to be touched, in a very partial manner, several different times with lunar caustic.” Sir Everard afterwards proceeds : “ Having met with a number of facts, from which a ge- neral principle appears to be established, that the irritable state of a stricture is kept up, and even increased, by the use of the bougie, but lessened and entirely destroyed by the application of lunar caustic; I am desirous to communicate my observations upon these facts, and to recommend the use of the caustic, in many cases of irritable stricture, in preference to the bougie. As the use of the caustic, upon this principle, is, I believe, entirely new, and is contrary to every notion that has been formed upon the subject, it will require something more, than general assertion, to gain even the attention of many of my readers, still more their belief; I shall therefore detail the circumstances, as they occurred, by which I conceive the propriety of this practice to be established; and afterwards make some observations upon the principle on which it depends. “ My connection in practice with Mr. Hunter afforded me opportunities of attending to cases of stricture, in all their different stages; many of them brought on during a long residence in India, attended with great irritability, and ex- ceedingly difficult of cure. “ One case of this kind admitted the passing of a small bougie; but, in the course of three years, very little was gained by a steady perse- verance in the use of that instrument, either in dilating the canal, or palliating the symptoms of stricture; this made me look upon the bougie as less efficacious, than I had always been taught to believe it. I was willing, however, to consider this as an uncommon case, depending more on the peculiarities of the patient’s constitution, than on the nature of the disease: but, I found, on a particular inquiry, that several other gen- tlemen, from India, were under circumstances nearly similar; the bougie only preventing the increase of the stricture, but being unable to dilate it beyond a certain size; and when it was left off, the stricture in less than two mouths re- turned to its former state of contraction. "What plan ought to be followed in such cases, I was then unable to determine; but, that the bougie could not be depended on was evident. uring the suspense, the following case catne under my care. In August, 170-1, a gentleman consulted me or S0IT>c symptoms, which had been consi- dered as indicating the presence of gonorrhoea; but, as they did not yield to the common treat- ment in the usual time, he was induced to take my advice respecting the nature of his complaint. In the necessary inquiry,' to obtain a perfect history of the case, among other things it was stated, that, nineteen years before, there was a stricture, which became very troublesome, and that Mr. Hunter, by the desire of the patient, had applied the caustic, by which the stricture was removed, and never afterwards returned. He said that he was one of the first persons, on whom the caustic had been used. From this account, I was naturally led to believe, that the stricture had gradually returned, and was now increased, so much as to produce the present symptoms; a discharge being almost always a symptom of stricture, when it is much contract- ed ; but, upon examining the canal, a bougie of full size passed on to the bladder without the smallest impediment. I therefore took up the case as an inflammation in the urethra; and large doses of the balsam of copaiva, given internally, effected a cure. “ The circumstance of a stricture having been removed nineteen years before, and not return- ing, made a strong impression on my mind; and made me desirous to ascertain, whether this practice could be employed-in cases of stricture in general, and the cure produced by it, equally permanent. A short time afr&rwards, I had an opportunity of trying it in the following case. “ A captain, in the East India Company’s service, in September, 1734, applied to me for assistance. His complaints were, great irrita- tion in the urethra and bladder, constant desire to make water, and an inability to void it, except in very small quantities. These symptoms had been at first supposed to arise from gonorrhoea, afterwards rendered more severe by catching cold : but, not yielding to the usual remedies for gonorrhoea, they were investigated more mi- nutely, and a stricture was discovered in the urethra. The mode of treatment was now changed, and the bougie employed; but its use aggravated all the symptoms, and brought on so great a degree of irritability in the bladder and urethra, that there was an alarm for the patient’s life, which was the reason for applying for my assistance. ‘‘Besides the local symptoms, this patient had those of quick pulse, white tongue, hot and dry sivin, loss of appetite, and total want of sleep, with frequent attacks of spasm on the bladder and urethra. A very small flexible gum catheter was passed, and the water drawn off) in quantity about a pint, which gave him great relief; this was repeated morning and evening, to keep the bladder in as easy a state as possible; but, in other respeets, he continued much the same. “ As the present symptoms were brought on by the use of the bougie, little good was to be expected from that instrument; and where the urethra had been so easily irritated, and was dis- posed to continue in that state, there was no prospect of the use of the bougie afterwards effecting a cure. These circumstances I ex- plained to the patient; and mentioned in proof of my opinion, the case, in which so little had been effected in three years. “ I then proposed to him a trial of the caustic,