1180 WOUNDS. ployed in the same way, and the wound unite over it, the ligature may be detached from the vessel, and remain buried in an abscess, where it will be found at different periods, from one to seven months ; and this may happen, whether the ves- sel be firmly compressed with a single ligature, or divided between two ligatures, so as to imitate the circumstances, under which vessels are tied after operations. Fourthly ; If Indian silk, fine as hair, be put round a vessel, so as to diminish its diameter, or to effect its obliteration, by just compressing its sides together, it may remain in this situation, without exciting abscess, or producing any in- convenience. The ligature may be thus applied to compress an artery for the cure of aneurism; but, not to secure vessels divided in operations. If a thin ligature be drawn sufficiently tight upon a vessel on the face of a stump to be secure, Mr. Cross is persuaded, that the extremity of the vessel, which becomes insulated, as it were, must die. (See Loud. Med. Reposit. Vol. 7, p. 368.) It deserves attention, that the preceding infer- ences are chiefly founded on experiments made upon asses and dogs. For further observa- tions, see Aneurism, Hemorrhage, Ligature, Surgery, $c. The bleeding having been suppressed, the next object is to remove any extraneous matter, such as dirt, bits of glass, clots of blood, &c. from the surface of the wound. Were this circumstance neglected, the plan of uniting the opposite sides of the cut by the adhesive inflammation, or by what is more frequently termed, union by the first intention, would in general be frustrated. As soon as attention has been paid to the fore- going indications, the surgeon must put the lips of the wound in contact, and take measures for keeping them in this state, until they have grown firmly together. The sides of incised wounds are kept in a state of apposition by means of adhesive plaster, a proper position, the pressure of a roller, and, in a few particular instances, by the employ- ment of sutures. With respect to sutures, as they create pain, irritation, and some degree of suppuration, they ought never to be employed when the parts can be kept in contact without them. However, cer- tain cases require them, and it is admitted by many experienced surgeons, that in sabre-wounds of the ears, eyelids, nose, and lips, it is proper to use them. (See AssalinVs Manualc di Chir. Parte Seconda,p. 10.) An account of the seve- ral kinds of sutures, with remarks on their em- ployment, will be found in the article Sutures. The best and most common method of keep- ing the surfaces of divided parts in contact is bv means of strips of adhesive plaster. When they are to be applied, the surgeon should put the wounded limb or parts in the position, which is most favourable to bringing the lips of the wound together. With this view, a position should generally be chosen, which relaxes the skin and subjacent muscles. An assistant should then place the edges of the wound as evenly together as possible, and hold them in this state, until the surgeon has secured them in this condition by strips of adhesive plaster, applied across the a* r . i i T._ nn«n1 if ic /loomnil nrl_ plaster, by which means the matter cannot be confined in case of suppuration. Over thew; first strips, lint is to be applied, and kept in its place with other pieces of adhesive plaster. Then, if necessary, a pledget and compresses ate to be put on the part, and, lastly, the bandage, or roller, is to be applied. In this manner, the fresh-cut surfaces are brought into contact, and to preserve them quietly in this state, is the next great aim, which the surgeon should have in view. The wounded part should be laid in the posture, which was found the most favourable for approximating the sides of the cut at the time of applying the dressings, and the patient should be directed to keep the part in a perfectly quiet state. When attention is p>aid to these circumstances, it often happens, that the two opposite surfaces of the wound grow together again in the course of forty-eight hours, without any degree of sup- puration. The process, by which this desirable event is accomplished, is well known among sur- geons, by the name of .union by the first inten- tion. Besides the advantage of the cure being eflected in this way with the greatest expedition possible, there is still another thing much in favour of constantly promoting this method o. healing wounds, which is, that the scar is much less than after any other mode of cicatrization, and the part is covered with original skin, which is always much stronger than any which can be formed as a substitute for it. It is wonderful, with what celerity union by the first intention takes place under favourable circumstances. In the course of three days, the large wound, made in the operation of amputation, is frequently all healed, except just where the ligatures are situated. When the two sides of the wound have been, brought together, before the oozing of blood has entirely ceased, Mr. Hunter conceives, that blood itself becomes the first bond of union; but, on this point, Professor Thomson, of Edinburgh, entertains a doubt; and all practical surgeons agree, that the lodgment of blood on the surface of a wound, is more likely Ho prevent, than pro- mote, the union of the parts. In all common instances, what Mr. Hunter calls, the adhesive inflammation takes place. In this process, coagu- lating lymph either issues from the half closed mouths of the vessels, or from the surface of the opened cells of the cellular substance. This becomes the first uniting medium, and- very soon afterwards, in some inexplicable manner, a vascular intercourse is established between the opposite sides of the wound. vj The power, which parts of the animal body have, of thus growing together, is strikingly evinced by' the possibility of removing a part of one both', and then uniting it to some }>art of another. In this latter case, there can be no assistance given to the union on one side, since the detached part, as Mr. Hunter observes, can hardly do more, than just preserve its own living principle, and accept of union. In this way, says the same writer, the spurs of the young cock can be made to grow on his comb, or oil that of another cock; and its testicles, after I rnmnwil. mnv ho mfldt* to unite tO I