BLADDER. to the utmost, and continues till the eighth, or tenth dav, or till the bladder sloughs, has long been understood, and is named by the French, “ urine par rdgargement.” To practitioners, who do not understand it, the occurrence is most de- ceitful. The friends felicitate themselves, that the urine begins to flow; the surgeon believes it; basins and cloths, wet with urine, are easily pro- duced; but, the patient lies unrelieved. The continued distention of the bladder is followed by universal inflammation of the abdomen. The in- sensibility, and low delirium of incipient gangrene, are mistaken for that relief, which was expected from the flow of urine, till either hiccough comes on, and the patient dies of fever, and inflamma- tion, or the urine gets into the abdomen, through an aperture, formed by mortification. Let no surgeon, therefore, trust to the reports of nurses and friends, but lay his hand upon the hypogastric region, and tap with his finger, in order that be may distinguish the distended bladder, and the fluctuation of urine.. As the bladder sutlers no further distention, after the third day, why should it burst ? Not from laceration; for it is supported by the uniform pressure of the surrounding vis- cera; not by yielding suddenly, for it is distended to its utmost on the third day of the retention, and yet seldom gives way before the tenth ; not by attenuation, for it becomes thickened. The term laceration was never more wrongly applied, than in this instance; for, when there is a breach in the bladder, it is found, on dissection, to be a small round hole, such as might be covered with the point of the finger. The rest of the viscus, and the adjacent bowels, are red and inflamed, while this single point is black, and mortified! Delay is more dangerous, than even the worst modes ot malting an opening into the bladder, and, while fife exists, the patient should have his chance. (See John Bell’s Principles of Surgery, Vol. 2, Part 1, p. 262, Ssc.) ^ That many patients die after paracentesis of the bladder is an undoubted truth, and this cir- cumstance has rather intimidated practitioners against the operation. It appears to me, how- ever, that death may in general be more fairly ascribed to the effects of the disease, than to the puncture of the bladder, and that, if this last measure were not deferred so long, as it often is, the recoveries would be more numerous. Hence, when relief cannot be obtained by the treatment described in the article, thine, llele.n- tion oj ; when nourinoatall has come away, at the end of the third day; or when it only does so in a dribbling manner after this period, while the blad- der continues distended, and no catheter can be introduced; the operation should not be delayed. In urgent cases, one should rather operate, as soon as forty-eight hours have elapsed. No doubt, a man, who is exceedingly skilful in the use of the catheter, and knows how to practise with science and judgment all the other means for relieving the retention of urine, will not fre- quently find it necessary to have recourse to the operation of puncturing the bladder. This is said br have been so much the case with the eminent esault, that, in the course of ten years, he had pscasion only once to perform such an operation 'n e Hotel Dieu, where diseases of the urethra re always extremely numerous. (See (Euvrcs Chir, de Desault, par Bichat, Tom. ‘2, p. 316.) When, however, this superior manual dexterity with the catheter is not the acquirement of the practitioner, the timely performance of the para- centesis of the bladder should ever be observed. At the present day, the absolute necessity for puncturing the bladder is also rendered a less fre- quent circumstance, not only by the treatment of diseases of the urethra being better understood, than formerly, but also by the very great perfec- tion, to which the construction of elastic gum catheters is brought, instruments, from which the most essential assistance may frequently be de- rived. I shall next treat of the three modes of doing the operation. 1. Puncture through the Perinceum. The first surgeon that ever performed this operation is said to have been M. Tolet, a French surgeon, the author of a valuable treatise, en- titled, “ Traite de Lilhotomie, ou de I’extraction de la pierre hors de la vessie, Troisieme Edition, Paris, 1681.” According to Sabatier, it was customary, at the time of Dionis, to make the opening with a narrow pointed scalpel, about (our or five inches long, which was plunged into the bladder, at the place where the incision in the ap- paratus major terminated. (See Lithotomy.) The escape of the urine indicated when the surgeon had reached the bladder. A straight probe was conducted along the knife, and, then a cannula was passed along the probe into the bladder, where it was allowed to remain as long as necessary, care being taken to fix it by means of tapes, put through the rings at the broad part of the in- struments. The opening was then closed with a linen tent. Some practitioners, however, after introducing a staff as far into the urethra as pos- sible, began an incision in the perineum. Having made an opening into the canal, they pushed the staff into the bladder, and along this instrument introduced a gorget. With the assistance of the gorget, a cannula was next passed into the blad- der, and allowed to continue thus introduced. This complicated mode of proceeding, which Sa- batier is pleased to term more methodical, than that which has been first mentioned, could only answer in cases, where the obstruction about the neck of the bladder was inconsiderable, and where in fact the introduction of the catheter was not yet impracticable. At least, therefore, the me- thod was unnecessary. The other plan of pierc- ing the urethra in several places, and making a passage for the urine through the prostate, says Sabatier, increased the inflammation, with which this gland was affected, and rendered the disease, if not mortal, at least much more difficult of cure. Sabatier represents Dionis, as the first who suggested the method of opening the bladder on one side of the perineum, at the part, where Frere Jacques used to perform lithotomy'. Dionis conceived, that in this inode of operating, the pa- tient would suffer less pain, because neither the urethra, nor the neck of the bladder, would be in- jured ; but at the same time, he recommended a process, to be followed, which was similar to that pursued in making the puncture in the middle of the perineum; viz. that a narrow scalpel should