cury in all instances of sores on the genitals. i <eem, on the average, to Iiave healed more slowly han others treated with it; yet it is to be taken nto the account, that a larger number of the first aseswere ulcers with a hardened base and margin, nd that if they had not had the mercurial treat- lent extended to them, it is possible their cora- iete cure might generally have been still more .diotls. As the evidence now stands, therefore, conceive it right to employ mercury with mo- eration, for all sores on the penis, having the naracters of the Hunterian chancre, and ap-. earing after a suspicious connexion. A consideration, however, which ought to have treater influence, than the slowness, or quickness, ' the treatment of primary sores, with.and with- at mercury, is the question, whether, upon the /crage, secondary symptoms are more fre- aent after the non-mercurial practice, than ie other? On this most interesting point, the ports vary, as indeed they do on almost ^ery matter in the investigation, excepting the els of the possibility of curing all forms of the enereal disease without mercury, the great rarity ' any affection of the bones, ami the general ildness of the secondary symptoms, when that edicine is not employed. On all these points, e testimonies are strong and convincing. But, file Mr. Hose found secondary symptoms take ace in one third of his cases treated without ercury {Med. Chir. Trans. Vol.8,p. 422), the oportion in the York and some other hospitals, L-iS only about one-tenth. {Vol. cit. p. 559.) In ire 1940 cases of primary sores on the penis, ;ated without mercury, in the army hospitals, : tween Dec. 1816, and Dec. 1818, there were ly 93 instances of secondary symptoms of dif- ::-"ent sorts, or not more than But, the pro- rtion of cases of secondary symptoms in the ses of primary ulcers, treated with mercury, is still smaller, and this in an important degree, :ngonly51 out of 2827 cases, or about A. ere it not necessary here to make a consider- : le allowance for the probable circumstance of e Hunterian chancre prevailing most in the ses treated with mercury, a poin.t.admitted by r James M'Grigor and Dr. Franklin, we ould here have a powerful and decisive evi- nce in favour of the general superiority of mer- ry for the prevention of secondary sym- ams. Nor am I certain, that the conclusion can i much weakened by the probability of the dif- ence here alluded to, because from the evidence i late brought to light, respecting the nature of : class of diseases which go under the name of philis, we have no right to infer, that what has ;n called the true, or Hunterian, chancre, is >re disposed, than some other primary sores, occasion secondary symptoms. Indeed, Mr. Jthrie declares, in the cases referred to in his pa- * that where mercury was not U3ed, these sym- >ms more frequently followed the raised ulcer of ■ prepuce, than the true characteristic chancre syphilis affecting the glans penis. {Med. Chir. 'uri.i. Vol. 8, p. 577.) On the whole, as the lorts now stand, and as far as I can judge from res which I have seen myself, the secondary mptoms are more frequent when primary ulcers - promiscuously treated without mercury. >t it by no means follows, from this fact, that e wa.v t0 have the smallest possible number of ses ol secondary symptoms is to employ mer- This both reason and experience contradict, in- asmuch as mercury, given in cases which do not require it for the security of the constitution, is frequently itself a source of cutaneous diseases, sore-throats, and nodes, which, without its bane- ful influence, would never have occurred. The prudent course, seems here to be to exercise our judgment and discretion, and to be guided in some measure, by the appearance and progress of tbe sore, according to principles already sug- gested ; for, though tbe look of a sore may not, in the present state of our knowledge, always enable us to form a certain inference respecting the risk of secondary symptoms, if mercury be omitted, it cannot be said, that tbe danger would be positively obviated by having recourse at once to mercury in every kind of primary sore, and, notwithstanding every thing which has been lately published, I still flatter myself, that sur- geons, accustomed to see much of venereal eases, can yet distinguish excoriations, boils, simple healthy sores, and some other similar ailments, (see Evans on Ulcerations of the Genital Or- gans, Svo. Lond. 1819), from ulcers, by which the constitution is liable to be affected. Until further data exist, I cannot venture to lay down other directions about the treatment of primary sores. It is with pleasure, however, that I sub- join the advice of other gentlemen, whose senti- ments and talents deserve respect, though their opinions may not exactly agree with my own. “ In every primary ulcer (says Dr. Hennen), I would give up the idea of using mercury at first, treating it as if it were a simple ulceration, by cleanliness, rest, and abstinence, and applying to it the most simple and mildest dressings. If the sore did not put on a healing appearance in a reasonable time, tbe extent of which must de- pend upon the circumstances of the patient, I should make use of more active dressings. But, if, beyond all calculation, it remained open, I should certainly not sacrifice every consideration to a dislike of mercury, knowing how many per- sons have been seriously benefited by a judicious and mild administration of that remedy.’’ {On Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 518.) When primary ulcers resist common means a certain time, Mr. Bacot would also have recourse to mercury. {On Syphilis, p. 69.) Like me, how- ever, the latter author does not approve of inva- riably postponing that remedy, until the latter criterion, viz. the backwardness of the. sore to be healed by other methods, is afforded. Whenever the employment of mercury in this work is recommended, I am very far from wish- ing to be thought an advocate for pushing that medicine, as the phrase is. On the contrary, experience lias fully convinced me, that, in no forms of chancre, nor in any other stages of the venereal disease, is it proper to exhibit mercury in tbe unmerciful quantity, and for the prodi- gious length of time, which custom, ignorance, and prejudice, used to sanction in former days. Violent salivations, at all events, ought to be for ever exploded. When I was an apprentice at St Bartholo- mew's Hospital, most of tbe venereal patients in that establishment were seen with their ulcer- ated tongues hanging out of their mouths; their faces prodigiously swelled; and their saliva flow- 4 E