1218 WOUNDS. or of fetid air from the wound, indicates an in- jury of one of the lurge intestines. In these cases, the symptoms are generally milder, and the pass- age of the intestinal contents outward through the wound more easy, on account of the bowel being less moveable. For the same reason, the wounded intestine more readily contracts an ad- hesion to the adjacent parts. (Callisen, Syst. Chirurgia Hodiemce, T. p. 717.) A wounded intestine is said to present some particular appearances, to which the generality of writers have paid no attention : “ If a gut be punctured, the elasticity of the peritoneum, and the contraction of the muscular fibres, open the wound, and the villous, or mucous coat, forms a sort of hernial protrusion, and obliterates the aperture. If an incised wound be made, the edges are drawn asunder, and reverted so that the mucous coat is elevated in the form of a fleshy lip. If the section be transverse, the lip is broad and bulbous, and acquires tumefaction and red- ness from the contraction of the circular fibres behind it, which produces, relatively to the everted portion, the appearance of a cervix. If the in- cision be according to the length of the cylinder, the lip is narrow, and the contraction of the adjacent longitudinal fibres, resisting that of the circular fibres, gives the orifice an oval form. This eversion and contraction are produced by that series of motions, which constitutes the pe- ristaltic action of the intestines.” (Travers on Injuries of the Intestines, p. 85.) According to this gentleman, some of these appearances were described by Haller, in Ele- ment. Physiol, lib. 24, sect. 2; and Opera Minora, T. 1, sect. 15. Having witnessed the facility, with which con- siderable injuries of the intestinal tube were re- paired, Mr. Travers was desirous of ascertaining more fully the powers of nature in the process of spontaneous reparation, and of determining, under how great a degree of injury, it would commence, as well as the mode of its accomplish- ment. For these purposes, he divided the smafi intestine of several dogs as far as the mesentery. All these animals died, in consequence of the intestinal matter being extravasated, if they had been lately fed, or if they had been fasting in consequence of inflammation, attended with a se- paration of the ends of the divided bowel, eversion of the mucous coat, and obliteration of the cavity, partly, by this eversion, and partly by a plug of coagulated chyle. In one particular instance, in which Mr. Tra- vers made a division of the bowel, half through its diameter, a sort of pouch was formed round the injured intestine. “ A pouch, resembling somewhat the diverticulum in these animals, was formed opposite to the external wound, on the side of the parietes, by the lining peritoneum, on the other side, by the mesentery of the injured intestine, that intestine itself, and an adjacent fold, which had contracted with it a close adhe- sion. The pouch, thus formed and iusulated, included the opposed sections of the gut, and had received-its contents, Ac. The tube, at the ori- fices, was narrowed by the half eversion, but offered no impediment to the passage of fluids.” (P. 96.) Whether, under these circumstances, incapable of deciding. Among the inferences, which this gentleman has drawn from the experi- ments, detailed in his publication, the tendency of the two portions of a divided bowel to recede from each other, instead of coalescing to repair the injury, merits notice, inasmuch as it tends to shew, that the only means of spontaneous repara- tion consist in the formation of an adventitious canal, by the encircling bowels and their append- ages. The everted mucous coat, which is the part opposed to the surrounding periioneum, is also indisposed to the adhesive inflammation. When, however, the wound of the intestine is smaller, the obstacles to reparation are not absolutely insurmountable. Here, retraction is prevented, and the processes of eversion and contraction modified by the limited extent of the injury. If, therefore, the adhesive inflammation unite the contiguous surfaces, effusion will be prevented, and the animal escape immediate destruction. But, union can only take place through the medium of the surrounding parts. According to Mr. Travers, it is the retraction, immediately following the wound, that is a chief obstacle to the reparation of the injury; for, if the division be performed in such a way, as to prevent retraction, the canal will be restored in so short a time, as but slightly to interrupt the digestive function. In confirmation of this state- ment, a ligature was tightly applied round the duo- denum of a dog, which became ill, but entirely re- covered, and was killed. “A ligature, fastened around the intestine, divides the interior coats of the gut, in this effect resembling the operation of a ligature upon an artery. The peritoneal tunic alone maintains its integrity. The inflam- mation, which the ligature induces on either side of it, is terminated by the deposition of a coat of lymph, which is exterior to the ligature, and quickly becomes organized. When the ligature, thus enclosed, is liberated by the ulcerative pro- cess, it falls of necessity into the canal, and passes off with its contents.” (P. 103—104.) It appears also from Mr. Travers’s experi- ments and observations, that longitudinal wounds of the bowels are more easily repaired, than such as are transverse. In a dog, a longitudinal wound, of the extent of an inch and a half, was repaired by the adhesive inflammation. Here the process of eversion is very limited ; the aperture bears a smaller proportion to the cylinder of the bowel; and the entire longitudinal fibres resist the action of the circular, which are divided, and can now only slightly lessen the area of the canal. (P. 103.) We come now to the consideration of the treatment of wounds of the intestines; a subject. - in which much difference of opinion has pre- vailed ; principally, however, concerning the cir- cumstances, in which sutures are necessary, and the most advantageous way of applying them. When the wounded bowel lies within the cavity of the abdomen, no surgeon of the present day would have the rashness to think of attempting to expose the injured intestine, for the purpose of sewing up the breach of continuity in it. In fact, the surgeon seldom knows at first what has happened; and when the nature of the case is afterwards manifested, by the discharge of blood . • r • _ * . • _ i *»