1074 ULCERS. there will be a portion of it to spare, of perhaps a yard in length; this remainder should be brought down by spiral windings, at greater distances from each other than those which were made on the ascent of the roller. The windings should in general be completed in the small of the leg, where the roller should be pinned. “ In many cases, it is necessary to apply the roller over the heel. It should be brought as low as possible round the ankle; as in the former description. From thence, the second circle of the roller should pass from the instep over one side of the heel, and be brought over the other side of the heel to the instep again. The third circle should be passed round the ankle a second time, but still nearer to the heel than the first circle was. The roller should after this be brought back to the foot, and passed round it to make the fourth circle. A fifth circle should be again made (though it is not in all cases ab- solutely necessary) round the foot, to the toes. To make the sixth circle, the roller should be brought back, and passed round the ankle again. The seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh circles should ascend spirally at the exact di- stance of three fourths of an inch from each other; these distances commencing at the sixth circle. The roller should then be carried to the knee, and be brought down again to the small of the leg, as described in the former in- struction. “ In applying the compresses, it is necessary in every instance to put them on one bv one, and not all in a mass, though they be of a proper size and number. They should be crossed in different directions; the largest of them should in no case be longer than just to meet on the opposite side of the leg, to which they are ap- plied. I have in many instances seen the com- presses applied by the patients of such a length as to go round the leg like a roller, and be fastened together with pins. This method gene- rally wrinkles and blisters the skin, and by no means answers the purpose of making a com- pression on the part where it is most wanted I never suffer a pin to be used in the compresses. If the same compresses in any case be applied two days together, they should always be turned on the contrary side at each re-application, in order to prevent wrinkles on the skin.” Mr. Whately notices two objections made by Mr. Baynton to rollers. “ The first is, that it is difficult to retain the roller on the parts to which it is applied; the second is, that it gives pain to the patient.” Mr. Whately’s experience, however, warrants him in saying, that a flannel roller will, in almost every instance, keep theexact position in which it was first placed, for a much longer time than is necessary. “ I have seen these rollers (says Mr. Whately) many hundred times keep their situations without any variation whatever for two days; and that too without the least restraint upon exercise. This has happened in those cases, where from the distance of the patient, or from the circumstance of his being nearly cured, I have wished to dress the leg only every forty-eight hours. I must go a step further, and observe, that I have seen repeated instances in which these rollers have remained in their situation for three or four days, and afresh. In short, it is one of the best properties of a flannel roller, that it is easily retained in its situation, when well applied. In every instance, in which it is necessary to use one, I could pledge myself to apply it in such a manner, as should prevent its altering its position for two days. 'Die method I should use, I have already described; in addition to which, nothing more would be ne- cessary, even in those cases where the shape of the leg is peculiarly unfavourable to the retention of a bandage, than the insertion of a few pins. “ In answer to the second objection, I observe, that I have invariably found, that when a flannel roller has been applied in the manner here de- scribed, and has not been drawn unnecessarily tight, it gives no pain. It sits nearly as easy as a common stocking, and allows a very free motion and exercise of the limb.” (See Prac- tical Observations on the Cure of Wounds and Ulcers on the Legs, without rest ; by Thomas Whately, 1799.) 6. I shall next introduce an account of Mr. Baynton’s plan of curing old ulcers of the leg, by means of adhesive plaster. Were I to say, that any particular method of dressing such sores is entitled to superior praise, I should certainly decide in favour of this gentleman’s practice. I have seen it most successful myself, and I hear it highly spoken of by numerous professional friends, in whose unprejudiced judgment I place much reliance. Mr. Baynton acquaints us, that the means proposed by him will be found, in most in- stances, sufficient to accomplish cures in the worst cases, without pain or confinement. After having been repeatedly disappointed in the cure of old ulcers, Mr. Baynton determined on bringing their edges nearer together by means of slips of adhesive plaster. To this he was chiefly led, from having frequently observed, that the probability of an ulcer continuing sound, depended much on the size of the cicatrix, which remained after the cure appeared to be accom- plished ; and from well knowing, that the true skin was a much more substantial support and defence, as well as a better covering, than the frail one, which is obtained by the assistance oi art. But, when he had recourse to the adhesive plaster, with a view to lessen the probability ot those ulcers breaking out again, lie little ex- pected, that an application so simple would prove the easiest, most efficacious, and most agreeable means of treating ulcers. Although the first cases, in which Mr. Baynton tried this practice, were of an unfavourable na- ture, yet he had soon the satisfaction to perceive, that it occasioned very little pain, and materially accelerated the cure, while the size of the cicatrices were much less than they would have been, had the cures been obtained by any of the common methods. At first, however, the success was not quite perfect;,as, in many instances, he was not able to remove the slips of plaster, without removing some portion of the adjacent skin, which, by occasioning a new wound, proved a disagreeable circumstance, in a part so disposed to inflame and ulcerate, as that in the vicinity of an old sore. He therefore endeavoured to obviate that inconvenience by keeping the plasters and band- T