CHE (L.) An excellent, unirritating, gently astringent salve, for common purposes. CERATUM SABINAS. ly. Sabirue. lle- centis l.wuustr, Ctrce Fluvee, sing. lbj. Adipis SuiUer, lbiv. Mix the savin with the melted wax and hog’s lard, and strain the composition. This is the common application for keeping open blisters, on the plan recommended by Mr. Crowther. (See Bhsteif.) CERATUM SAPONIS. (L.) fy. Plumbi p.iydi semivit ei lib. j. Aceti cong. j. Sapmis uvc. viij. Old aliive, Ceice Jiauc, sing. lib. j. This is the soap cerate of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. In preparing it, the utmost caution must be used. The three first ingredients are to be mixed together and boiled gently till all the mois- ture is evaporated ; after which, the wax and oil, previously melted together, must be added. The whole composition, from first to last, must be in- cessantly and effectually stirred, without which the whole will be spoiled. This formula was in- troduced into practice by Air. Pott, and is found to be a very convenient application for fractures, and also as an external dressing for ulcers; being of a convenient degree of adhesiveness, and at the same time possessing the usual properties of a saturnine remedy. In applying tiiis cerate, spread on linen, in fractures of the leg or arm, one caution is neces- sary to be observed, namely, that it be in two distinct pieces; for if, in one piece, the limb be encircled by it, and the ends overlap each other, it will form a very inconvenient and partial con- striction of the fractured part, in consequence of the subsequent tumefaction. (Pharm. Cllirurg.) CERU'MEN AURIS. A degree of deaf- ness is frequently produced by the lodgment of hard dry pellets of this substance in the meatus auditorius. The best plan, in such cases, is to syringe the ear with warm water, which should be injected with moderate force. In some instances, deafness seems to depend on a defective secretion of the cerumen, and a consequent dryness of the meatus. Here, a drop or two of sweet oil may now and then be introduced into the ear, and fomentations applied. CERUSSA ACETATA. Sugar of lead. Acetite of lead. This preparation, which is now named by the college plumbi superacetas, is well known as an ingredient in a variety of lotions and collyria. It has the qualities of preparations of lead in general, being highly useful for di- 1 tninishing inflammation. CHALAZIUM. (from •gtt'Ka^n, a hailstone.) A little tubercle on the eyelid, which has been whimsically supposed to resemble a hailstone. It is the same as the hordeolum or stye. (See Hordeolum.) CHAMOMILE. The flowers, which are bitter and aromatic, are used in surgery, for i making fomentations. CHANCRE, (from xagruvo;, cancervenereus.) A sore which arises from the direct application of the venereal poison to any part of the body. Of course it almost always occurs on the genitals. Such venereal sores, as break out from a general contamination of the system, in consequence of a sorP^°n, never have the term chancre applied to them. (For an account of the nature and treatment of chancres, see Penereul Disease.) CHEMOSIS. (from yjtivw, to gape.) When CHI 333 ophthalmy or inflammation of the eye, is exceed- ingly violent, it frequently happens, that one or more vessels become ruptured on the side next the eyeball, and a quantity of blood is infused into the cellular membrane, which connects the conjunc- tiva with the anterior hemisphere of the eye.' Hence, the conjunctiva becomes gradually ele- vated upon the eyeball, and projects towards the eyelids, so as to conceal within it the cornea, which appears as if it were depressed. (.Scarpa.) In this way, the middle of the eye assumes the appearance of a gap, or aperture. According to the late Air. Ware, when blood is extravasated under the tunica conjunctiva, there cannot be an easier or more effectual re- medy than aether. A few drops are to be poured into the palm of the hand, and diffused over it, which may be immediately done by press- ing the other hand against it. The hand is then to be applied to the eye, and kept close to it, while ihe spirit is evaporating. By this means, the action of the absorbent vessels for the disper- sion of the blood is excited, and quickened. In a few instances of chemosis, in which the swelling and inflammation of the conjunctiva have been great, the same author found the following application particularly beneficial, after free eva- cuations : 1 uteri or ium foliar urn recentium Lacluccp. Sifilis, Jiij. Coquecum Aq. Pur. Jss. In balneo murice pro semilwra; tunc exprimatur succus, et upplicelur paululum ad oculos et ad palpcbras, scepe in die. ( Ware.) Ophthalmy, attended with chemosis, demands the most rigorous employment of the antiphlo- gistic treatment. Both general and topical bleed- ing should be speedily and copiously put in prac- tice, with due regard, however, to the age and strength of the patient. Leeches should be ap- plied to the vicinity of the eyelids, or, what is preferable, the temporal artery should be opened. When chemosis is very considerable, the disten- tion of the conjunctiva may be relieved by making an incision in it, near its junction with the cor- nea. (See Ophthalmy.) CHEVASTER or Cheva'stre. A double headed roller, the middle of which was applied to the chin; the bandage then crossed at the top of the head, and passed on each side to the nape of the neck, where it crossed again. It was next carried up to the top of the head, and so on, till all the roller was exhausted. CIIIA'STRE.—A bandage for stopping hemorrhage from the temporal artery. It is double headed, about an inch and a half wide, and four ells long. The middle of the roller is applied to the umvounded side of the head : the bandage is carried round to the bleeding temple, and there made to cross over a corn- press on the wound. The roller is then con- tinued over the coronal suture, and under the chin, care being taken to make the bandage cross upon the compress. In this way, the roller is applied round the head, till the whole is spent. CHILBLAINS are the effect of inflamma- tion, arising from cold. A chilblain, in its mildest form, is attended with a moderate redness of the skin, a sensation of heat and itching, and more or less swelling, which symptoms, after a time, spontaneously disappear. The intolerable itching and sense of tingling, accompanying the inflam- mation of the milder description of chilblains.