971 SCIIOPHULA. ta-bathing, however, is certainly useful when idiclously applied, &c. &c. (P. 44.) With regard to electricity, Mr. White thinks useful, when from length of time the enlarged lands have acquired a degree of hardness and sensibility. Mr. White, after enjoining attention to air, cercise, and diet, as promotive of a recovery, as ell as a preventive of the disease, proceeds to , ;plain his own practice. The internal cases, hich properly belong to the physician, we shall smiss from consideration. flhe first external vmptoms, such as swellings of the lips, side of le face, and of glands under the chin, and j jund the neck; also other symptoms, usually : ansidered as strumous, viz. roughness of the <in, eruptions on the back of the hand, and dif- ferent parts of the body, redness, and swelling the eyelids, and eyes; are accompanied, ac- I ording to Mr. White’s conceptions, with an in- I ammatory diathesis, though seldom such a one, il s to require bleeding. Calomel is the medicine, [I -Inch this gentleman recommends for the re- I rnval of the foregoing complaints. It is not to : e given in suclT quantities, as to render it a | owerful eVacuant, either by the intestines, or 1 ny other way; but, in small doses, at bed- I irime. Thus, says Mr. White, “ it remains I mger in the intestinal canal, a greater quantity j i taken into the habit, and the patient is less Iusceptible of cold, than when taken in the day- : me. The first, and, perhaps, the second dose lay prove purgative, which is, in general, a : rlutary effect; hut, afterwards, the same quantity ill seldom do more, than is sufficient to keep tuie body open; and should it fail of answering rat purpose, I have usually recommended some ■ ;entle purgative, every third or fourth morning, q ccording to circumstances. If there should be prevailing acidity, a few grains of the sal sodse, aagnesia, or some testaceous powder, may be idded to the medicine. By this simple method continues Mr. White) most of the symptoms I jefore-mentioned will, in a short time, disap- rear; hut if the tumors should continue hard, ind retain their figure, without dividing into ■mailer ones, we may derive some benefit from > jxternal applications, particularly the steam of varm water. I have used a variety of medicinal I rerbs with success; but am inclined to believe, [ i hat the advantage was principally derived from be warm water, &c. At other times, I have I timulated the part affected with electricity, in- i dialing the patient, and drawing sparks from he tumor, until a slight degree of inflammation 1 vas excited. After the application of the steam, >r the use of the electrical machine, I have some- : .imes rubbed a little of the unguentum rnercuriale ; nto the tumor, and neighbouring parts, or applied ; .he emplastrum saponaceum, or rnercuriale cum immoniaco, over the swelling, or a liniment with camphor, ol. olivarumj and sp. terebinth.” Mr. White adds, that in such cases, if the tumors should suppurate, and hurst, the parts will, in most instances, heal without much trouble. For eruptions on the head, he recommends applying the ung. saturn. album camphoratmn, or the cerat. alb. cum hydrarg. praecip. alb. For the roughness of the skin, which is generally followed by eruptions, he also advises the aqua-vcgclo- tnincralis, aqua calcis, solutions of sal. tartar, or of the hydrarg. mur. ns outward applications. “ This last (says Mr. White) will seldom fail to check the progress of the complaint, and dry the sores; and in the quantity of ten or twelve grains, to a quart of warm water, the use of it will not be productive of any pain. If the erup- tion should ulcerate, and require any unctuous application, to prevent the adhesion of the linen, the ointment before-mentioned may be applied ; the best remedy will be warm-bathing, and when practicable, the sea-water claims a preference.” (P. 114.) The author next mentions his having occasionally7 recommended the vinum antimoniale, tartarum emeticum, decoctum Lusitanicum, de- coctum lignorum, or sarsaparilla^; and that he sometimes found advantage derived from arti- ficial drains. We need not detail this gentle- man’s mode of treating affections of the eyelids, as notice is taken of scrophulous diseases of the eye and eyelids, in the articles Ophthalmy and Psorophthalmy. For the cure of indurations in the breast, re- maining after mammary abscesses, Mr. White speaks very7 highly of the effects of the steam of warm water; and cautions us against indiscri- minately employing calomel, which will often affect the mother little, but the child violently. Mr. White mentions his employing a small tin machine, large enough to hold a pint and a half, or two pints of boiling water. From the top proceeded a narrow tube, ten, or twelve inches long, through which the steam passed. Near its end, which was moveable and curved, was a joint, for the greater convenience of directing the steam to the diseased parts. The water was easily kept boiling, by means of a lamp under the machine. Mr. White says, that the steam should be employed twice, or thrice a day7, and a piece of flannel, or skin, afterwards applied. The body should also be kept open. In obstinate, neglected cases, mercurial preparations, accord- ing to Mr. White, must likewise be given, and, if they affect the child much, sucking should he suspended. (/’. 117, 118.) Mr. White speaks largely of the treatment of cases, in which the mesenteric glands are dis- eased; but. this subject strictly belongs to the physician. When, in these instances, the glands of the neck, or other parts of the body, tend to a state of suppuration, it is very slowly7, the skin appearing uniformly thin, and of a deep red colour, and the tumor seeming flaccid. In such cases, Mr. White recommends the use of the lancet or caustic; for if no artificial opening is made, it will be a long time, before the skin gives way; and, when it does, the aperture will not only be very small, but often unfavourable in its situation. Mr. White adds, that the contents will often he more like mucus, than pus, or like a mixture of both ; and the discharge will con- tinue for a great length of time, if no remedy is applied. This gentleman mentions his having found a solution of gum tnyrrhaa in aqua calcis, used as a lotion, and the ceratum saponaceum, or some similar outward application, the best method of treating this symptom. We need not describe Mr. White’s practice in the treatment of scrophulous joints, ns ^he subject is fully considered in the article Joints. It appears, however, that he confirms the efficacy of stimulating applications, and pressure with