INTROSUSCEPTION. we can readily see how an introsusception, once begun, may have any length of gut drawn in. The external portion acting upon the other folds in the same way as upon any extraneous matter, will by its peristaltic motion urge them fut tlier; and, if any extraneous substance is de- tained in the cavity of the inner portion, that part will become a fixed point for the outer or contain- ing intestine to act upon. Thus it will be squeezed on, till at last the mesentery preventing more ol the innermost part from being drawn in, will act as a kind of stay, yet without entirely hindering the inverted outer fold from going still further. For it being the middle fold that is acted upon by the outer, and this action continu- ing after the inner portion becomes fixed, the gut is thrown into folds upon itself; so that a loot in length of intestine shall form an introsusception not more than three inches long. The outer portion of intestine is alone active in augmenting the disease when once begun ; but if the inner one were capable of equal action in its natural direction, the effect would be the same, that of endeavouring to invert itself, as in a pro- lapsus ani; the outer and inner portions, by their action, would tend to draw in more of the gut, while the intermediate part only would, by its action, have a contrary tendency. The action of the abdominal muscles cannot as- sist in either forming, or continuing this disease, as it must compress equally both above and be- low, although it is capable of producing the pro- lapsus ani. When an introsusception begins at the valve of the colon, and inverts that intestine, we find the ileum is not at all affected; which proves that the mesentery, by acting as a stay, prevents its inversion. (J. Hunter.) From the natural attachment of the mesentery to the intestines, one would, at the first view of the subject, conceive it impossible for any one portion of gut to get far within another; as the greater extent of mesentery that is carried in along with it would render its further entrance more and more difficult, and we should expect this difficulty to be greater in the large intestines than in the small, as being more closely confined to their situation ; yet one of the largest introsus- ceptions of any known was in the colon, as re- lated by Mr. Whateley. (Vid. Phil. Trans. Vol. 7 b‘, p- 305.) The introsusception appeared to have begun at the insertion of the ileum into the colon, and to have carried in the ccecum with its appendix. The ileum passed on into the colon, till the whole of the ascending colon, the transverse arch, and descending colon, were carried into the sigmoid flexure and rectum. The valve of the colon being the leading part, it at last got as low as the anus; and when the person went to stool he only emptied the ileum, for one half of the large in- testines being filled up by the other, the ileum alone, which passed through the centre, dis- charged its contents. (</. Hunter.') Two questions of considerable importance pre- sent themselves to the mind in considering this subject; whether there are any symptoms, by which the existence of the affection can be ascer- tained during life? And whether we possess any means of relieving it, supposing, that its exist- ence could be discovered? The symptoms attend- ing an introsusception are common to inflamma- tion of the intestines, hernia, and obstruction of the canal, from whatever cause, and a volvulus is the least frequent cause of such symptoms. (LangstuJJI) In the case, published by this gentleman, and in those related by Mr. Hunter and Mr. Spry, the seat of the disease was clearly denoted by a hard tumor on the left side of the abdomen. This circumstance, together with the impossibility of throwing up more than a very small quantity of fluid in clysters, (Hevin, Spry, Langstaff,) and the presence of the other sym- ptoms, would lead us to suspect the nature of the disorder. If the irivaginated portion descended so low as to protrude through the anus, and we could ascertain, that it was not an inversion of the gut, the case might be considered as clear, and we should have no hesitation in delivering a prognosis, which, by preparing the friends for the fatal termination, would exonerate us from all blame on its occurrence. (Langstaff.) In the treatment of this disease, bleeding, to lessen the inflammation that might be brought on, and quicksilver to remove the cause, have been recommended. Quicksilver would have little effect either in one way or the other, if the introsusception were downward; for it is to be supposed that it would easily make its way through the innermost con- tained gut, and, if it should be stopped in its pas- sage, it would, by increasing its size, become a cause (as before observed) of assisting the dis- ease. In cases of the retrograde kind, quick- silver, assisted by the peristaltic motion, might be expected to press the introsusception back ; but even under such circumstances it might get between the containing and inverted gut into the angle of reflection, and, by pushing it further on, increase the disease it is intended to cure. (J. Hunter.) Every thing, that can increase the action of the intestine downwards, is to be particularly avoided, as tending to increase the peristaltic motion of the outer containing gut, and thus to continue the disease. Medicines can never come into contact with the outer fold, and, having passed the inner, can only act on the outer further down, and therefore cannot immediately affect that portion of the outer which contains the introsusception ; but we must suppose that whatever affects or comes into contact with the larger portion of the canal, so as to throw it into action, will also affect by sympathy any part that may escape such application. Mr. Hunter therefore advises giving vomits, with a view to invert the peri- staltic motion of the containing gut, which will have a tendency to bring the intestines into their natural situation. If this practice should not succeed, it might Fe proper to consider it as a retrograde intro- susception, and by administering purges endea- vour to increase the peristaltic motion down- wards. (J. Hunter.) I cannot agree with Mr. Langstaff, that it is to be regretted, Hunter’s name should be affixed to the preceding proposal, or that it is an absurd one; for purgatives and emetics were only re- commended to increase theperistaltic action, the former downward, the latter upward, according