782 LITHOTOMY. method, and every error attendant on the infant state of the lateral operation. He first intro- duced a long wide staff; lie cut forward with a common scalpel, through the skin and fat, till he could distinguish the bulb, the naked urethra, and the prostate gland. Secondly, with another knife, the urethrotome, having a groove on one side, he opened the urethra, just before the prostate, and, fixing the urethrotome in the groove of the staff, and holding it steady, rose from the kneeling posture, in which he per- formed the outward incision. Thirdly, holding the urethrotome in the left hand, he passed an- other knife, the cystotome, along the groove of the urethrotome, and the beak of the cystotome being lodged in the groove of the urethrotome, it was pushed forwards, through the substance of the prostate gland into the bladder. Fourthly, drawing the cystotome a little backwards, he gave the staff to an assistant to be held steadily, and lifting a blunt gorget in the right hand, he placed the beak of it in the groove of the cysto- tome, and pushed it onwards, till it glided from the groove of the cystotome, along the groove of the staff into the bladder. Then, true to the principles of the apparatus major, and, never for- getting his own peculiar theory, little incision, and much dilatation, he forced his fingers along the gorget, dilated the neck of the bladder, and so made way for the forceps. (J. Bell's Prin- ciples, Vol. 2.) In 1741, Le Dran described an operation, the introduction of which has been claimed by several since his time. A staff being introduced, and two assistants keeping open the patient’s knees, while a third stands on one side of him on a chair, (Le Dran says,) “ I then raise up the scrotum, and directing the last assistant to support it with both hands, so as to avoid bruising it, by pressing it either against the staff, or the os pubis, I place his two fore-fingers on each side of the part, where the incision is to be made; one of the fingers being laid exactly along that branch of the ischium, which rises towards the pubes, and the other pressed upon the raphe, that the skin may be kept fixed and tight. While I thus place the fingers of the assistant, who supports the scro- tum, I still keep hold of the handle of the staff, and direct it so as to form a right angle with the patient’s body; at the same time, taking care, 4hat the end of it is in the bladder. This posi- tion is the more essential, as all the other in- struments are to be conducted along the groove of this. If the handle of the staff were kept in- clined towards the belly, the end of it would come out of the bladder, and the gorget, miss- ing its guide, would slip between that and the rectum. “ The staff being rightly placed, I take the knife from the assistant, who holds the instru- ments, and put it into my mouth; then pressing the beak of the staff against the rectum, I feel the curvature of it through the perinaeum. The incision ought to terminate, an inch anti a halt, below where we feel the bottom oi the cur\ ature. therefore begin the incision from the lower part of the os pubis, continuing it down to the place, that I before directed for its termination ; after which I pass the point of the knife into the groove of the staff and cutting from below upwards, without taking [the point out of the groove, I open the anterior part of the urethra, as far as the incision, that is in the skin. “ The beak of the staff, which was pressed upon the rectum, must now be raised and pressed against the os pubis. At the same time, I turn the handle towards the right groin, that the groove, which is at the beak of the staff may face the space, between the anus and the tuber- culum ischii on the left side. Then carrying the point of the knife down the groove, I slide it along the beak, turning the edge, that it may face the space, between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. By this incision, I exactly di- vide the bulb of the urethra, and by doing* this on its side, we are sure to avoid wounding the rectum, which, for want of this precaution, has been often cut. This first incision being made, I again pass the point of the knife into the curva- ture of the staff to the part, where it bears against the perinaeum, and direct it to be held there by the assistant, who supports the scrotum. This done, I take a large director, the end of which is made with a beak, like that of a gorget, and con- veying this beak, upon the blade of the knife, into the groove of the staff I draw the knife out. I then slide the beak of this director, along the groove of the staff, into the bladder, and I withdraw the staffby turning the handle towards the patient’s belly. The following circumstances will sufficiently satisfy us, that the director is in- troduced into the bladder; first, if it strikes against the end of the staff, which is closed; secondly, if the urine runs along the groove. I next feel for the stone with this director) and, having found it, endeavour to distinguish its size and surface, in order to make choice of a proper pair of forceps; that is, one of a stronger or weaker make, or of a large or small size, agree- ably to that of the stone; after which 1 turn the groove, towards the space, between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium, and, resting it there, convey a bistoury along the groove, the blade of which is half an inch broad, and about three quarters of an inch long. I continue the inci- sion, made by the knife in the urethra, and en- tirely divide the prostate giand laterally, as also the orifice of the bladder; and, I am very cer- tain, that the introducing the use of these two instruments, which are not employed by other lithotomists, does not prolong the operation a quarter of a minute, but rather shortens the time, both by facilitating the dilatation, that is afterwards to be made with the finger, and by rendering the extraction of the stone more easy. The bistoury being withdrawn, the groove of the director serves to guide the gorget into the blad- der. I then introduce mv fore-finger along the gorget, (which is now easily done, as the urethra and prostate, being divided, do not oppose its If we do not carry this incision sufficiently low, entrance) and with it I dilate the passage for tne it may happen not to be of a size to allow the stone, in proportion to the size, of which 1 dis- extractionPof a large stone, and might lay us cover it to be. 1 his dilatation being made, 1 under the necessity of extending it further after- withdraw my i.ngcv, and use the pvoper for- wards, for the skin will not lacerate here, nor ceps. (Lc Dran s Operations, Edit. 5, 1784, easily give way for the passage of the stone. 1 London.)