883 OPHTHALiMY. nen have so great a dread of this.painful feel, much persuasion is often requisite to induce n to let the eye be properly examined. If Li-landular inflammation of the eyelids attain onsiderable degree, the lachrymal papillae nlc, and the puncta seem closed, which is cularly the case, when the disorder begins at oner canthus. i the second stage of the complaint. Beer ribes the itching, burning sensation, and iess of the eye, as undergoing a remarkable nution, as either the canthi, or the whole nt of the edges of the eyelids, become more more moist, aud smeared with mucus, an eased secretion of a purifonn sebaceous fluid : the Meibomian glands being the first sym- i, denoting the commencement of the second e of the inflammation. As this mucous letion is not mixed with an adequate quantity t:ars, it inspissates in the form of white, thin, i :ate layers, which, from time to time, cover cornea, and make the patient very appre- live of becoming blind, as the flame of a lie in the evening, and other objects appear im more or less concealed by a dense mist, en, under these circumstances, however, the ids are repeatedly and briskly moved, or the is wiped, these appearances soon go off, the es of mucus being removed from the cornea. :se accumulations of thickened mucus, Beer arks, are apt to be most frequent and trouble- e some time after a meal; and the eyelids ime so firmly glued together during sleep yellowish crusts, that, when the patient tes in the morning, it is not till after a great of washing and bathing of his eyes with n water, that he is able to open them again. ■ above described change in the quantity and itv of the secreted matter, as already men- eil, indicates the first period of the second re ; for Beer wishes it to be particularly no- d, that here, as in all inflammations of mucous nbranes, the second stage of the disorder has e periods, as will be presently seen, to which practitioner cannot be too attentive. ^his morbid secretion of a mucous sebaceous ter does not continue long unattended with ir effects; and, very soon, the peculiar ap- rances of suppuration are seen, at the same ; that the conjunctiva of the eyelids becomes e considerably swelled, and a discharge takes e not only from the canthi, or margins of the ids, but from the whole of the thickened • ms surface of the palpebral conjunctiva, and h discharge is distinguishable at first view i the mucus, which, at an earlier period, ac- ulated in much smaller quantity only between edges of the eyelids, and at the canthi. It is no longer white, but yellow, completely like with which it is in reality blended, and so •d is it, that the crusts which collect oil the ids in the night-time cannot be removed, out pulling the eyelashes away with them, letime*, says Beer, at the moment of sup- ition, minute pustules, which are scarcely mguigliable, form either at the canthi, or 'g the edges of the eyelids, and are soon h by the constant friction of the parts. ;8e pustules indicate the second, or suppura- period of the second stage of the case, when er merely the eanthus, or the whole of the margin of the eyelid, constantly becomes ex- coriated, and Secretes mucus and purulent mat- ter, the sore fretted places smarting so se- verely on exposure to the air, particularly to such as contains a large proportion of carbonic acid gas and nitrogen, that the patient is afraid of opening his eye. When the patient neglects himself, and continues in an unhealthy atmo- sphere, these excoriations of the skin, occurring in the suppurative stage, are always more ex- tensive; nay, they sometimes spread over the lower eyelid, and down the cheek. At length, after the excoriations have lasted, perhaps, several weeks, the suppurative process is checked and suppressed, either by. surgical treat- ment, or accidental favourable circumstances, as change of regimen, the weather, climate, &c., and, then, the excoriations immediately diminish. However, a morbid secretion from the Mei- bomian glands still continues, making the third period of the second stage, and is apt to become habitual, if not rectified by art, or removed by the effect of accidental favourable circumstances, when it changes into a thin serous discharge, and then terminates. Beer refers the causes of glandular inflamma- tion of tfie eyelids, or simple purulent ophthalmy, to the immediate operation of various stimuli acting chemically upon the edge of the eyelid, where it is covered with a very delicate cuticle, and upon the exposed follicles of the glands of the eyelid towards the inner canthus. Hence, says he, when -many men are living together in a polluted, noxious air, impregnated with extra- neous substances, this form of inflammation is found to occur even in the strongest con- stitutions with such frequency, that it seems as if it were epidemic. And, according to Beer, the principal cause of the disease will he found to be in the atmosphere, and the next most fre- quent occasion of it, he observes, is uncleanliness, as washing the eyes with foul water, &c. At the same time, this experienced oculist seems aware, that this explanation would not of itself be always quite satisfactory ; for, he adds, that, although, under the above circumstances, no constitution, no sex, nor age, is spared, there must be some particular condition which is conducive to the disorder, or at all events, to its more rapid and severe course, and the quick extension of the inflammation in certain individuals, which con- dition Beer supposes must depend either upon weakness of constitution, or upon excessive irri- tability, or as he terms it, vulnerability of the whole surface of the body. Beer makes no men- tion of the effect of damp nocturnal air in warm countries in giving origin to purulent ophthalmy, so much insisted upon by Assalini and Ur. Vetch, but, which doctrine, in reference to thesorigin of purulent ophlhalmies in England, I think com- pletely fails; and what is still more worthy of notice, Beer never attempts to explain the pro- pagation of the disease by its infectious nature. It is observed by Dr. Vetch, that the history of all diseases, originating from some particular impression received from the atmosphere, but capable, when formed, of propagating themselves by contagion, is rendered particularly difficult; because the same circumstances, which favour the communication by contagion, produce also a predisposition to be acted upon by the more ge- i