MAMMA. 7 90 ntov were to be content with merely dissecting out the disease, just where his eyes and fingers misfit equally lead him to suppose its boundary to "be situated, there would still be left behind white diseased bauds, which radiate from the tumor into the surrounding fat, and which would inevitably occasion a relapse. In a vast proportion of the cases also, in which cancer of the breast unfortunately recurs after the ope- ration. it is found, that the skin is the part, in which the disease makes its reappearance. Hence the great prudence of taking away a good deal of it in ever}' case suspected to be a trulv scirrhous or cancerous disease. This may also be done so as not to prevent the important objects of uniting the wound by the first inten- tion, and covering the whole of its surface with sound integuments. So frequently does cancer recur in the nipple, whenever it does recur any where, that many of the best modern operators always make a point of removing this part in every instance, in which it is judged expedient to take away any portion of the skin at all. The surgeon, indeed, would be inexcusable, were he to neglect to take away such portion of the in- teguments covering scirrhous tumors, as is evi- dently afiected, appearing to be discoloured, puck- ered, and closely attached to the diseased lump beneath. Nor should any gland, in the axilla, at all diseased, nor any fibres of the pectoral muscle, in the same state, be ever left behind. There is no doubt, that nothing has stamped ope- rations for cancers with disrepute, so much as the neglect to make a free removal of the skin, and parts surrounding every side of thetumor. Hence, the disease has frequently appeared to recur, when, in fact, it has never been thoroughly ex- tirpated; the disease, though entirely a local af- fection, has been deemed a constitutional one ; and the operation frequently rejected as ineffectual and useless. But, strongly as I have urged the prudence, the necessity of making a free removal of the skin covering, and of the parts surrounding, every cancerous or malignant tumor, the same plan may certainly be regarded as unnecessary, and, therefore, unscientific, in most operations for the removal of simple, fatty, fleshy, or en- cysted tumors, to which the breast and almost every other part are liable. However, even in the latter cases, when the swelling is very large, it is better to take away a portion of skin ; for, otherwise, after the excision of the tumor, there would he a redundance of integuments, the cavity of which would only serve for the lodgment of matter. The loose superfluous skin also would lie in folds, and not apply itself evenly to the parts beneath, so as to unite favourably by the first intention ; nor could the line of the cicatrix itself be arranged with such nice evenness as it might be, were a part of the redundant skin taken away at the time of operating. 1 he best method of removing a diseased breast as billows: I he patient is usually placed in a sitting posture, well supported by pillows and assistants; but the operator will find it equally convenient, if not more so, to remove the tumor wit,i iis patient in a recumbent position; and In posture is best whenever the operation is V* ' to be long, or much blood to be lost, which ' ircumstances are very apt to bring on fainting. I remember, that Mr. Abernethy, in his lectures, used to recommend the latter plan ; which, how- ever, Without the sanction of any great name, or authority, possesses such obvious advantages, as will always entitle it to approbation. The arms should be confined back, bv placing a stick between them and the body, by which means, the fibres of the great pectoral muscle will be kept on the stretch, a state most favour- able for the dissection of the tumor off its sur- face. The stick also prevents the patient from moving her arm about, and interrupting the pro- gress of the operation. When the tumor is not large, and only a sim- ple sarcoma, free from malignancy, it will be quite unnecessary to remove any of the skin, and, of course, this need only be divided by one ineision, of a length proportionate to the tumor. The cut must be made with a common dissecting knife ; and, as the division of the parts is chiefly accomplished with the part of the edge towards the point, the instrument will be found to do its office best when the extremity of the edge is made of a convex shape, and this part of the blade is turned a little back, in the way in which dissect- ing knives are now often constructed. The direction of the incision through the skin should be made according to the greatest diameter of the tumor to be removed, by which means it will be most easily dissected out. The direction of the ineision is various witli different practitioners ; some making it perpen- dicular, others transverse. In general, the shape of the tumor must determine which is the best. In France, it has been said, that when the inci- sion follows the second direction, it heals more expeditiously, because the skin is more extensi- ble from above downward, than laterally, par- ticularly towards the sternum, and consequently allows the sides of the wound the more readily to be placed in contact ; and that the action of the pectoral muscle lends to separate the edges of the wound when it is perpendicular. On the other hand, it is allowed, that the wound, made in the latter manner, is the most favourable for the escape of the discharge, if suppuration should occur. (See CEuvres de Desault par Bichat, p. 31‘A T. ‘2.) ffhe cut through the skin should alwavs be somewhat longer than the tumor; and as it is, perhaps, the most painful part of the operation, and one attended with no danger whatever, it should be executed with the utmost celerity, pain being more or less dreaded, according to its duration, as well as its degree. The fear, however, of giving pain, has probably led many operators to err, in not making their first inci- sion through the integuments large enough, the consequence of which has often been that there was not sufficient room for the dissection of the tumor with facility; the patient has been kept nearly an hour in the operating room, instead of five minutes, and the surgeon censured by the spectators, as awkward and tedious. It is clear, also, that, besides the great deal more blood lost, from this error, than would otherwise happen, the vessels biing commonly not tied till all the cutting is finished, the avoidance of pain, that fear, which led to the blunder, is not effected, and the patient suffers much more, and for a much longer time, in consequence of the embar-