mortification. 821 necessary, when the sphacelus is of the dry sort, and has ceased to spread, at the same time, that the living margin appears to be in a state of in- flammation, without any universal debility. But it deserves particular notice, that the circum- stances of each individual case are liable to such considerable variation, that though bark may be at first unnecessary, it may afterwards be indi- CfttCll* In some cases of sphacelus, bark is hurtful. The disorder is generally attended with lever, which maybe of three kinds; inflammatory; typhoid, or attended with extreme debility; or one connected with a disordered state of the abdominal viscera. In the latter case, which is far more common than is supposed, bark is manifestly pernicious. Here, the indication is to empty the stomach and bowels, as quickly as possible. When this has been done, if bark should now be indicated bv any of the circumstances, already pointed out, it may be safely administered. But there is a great necessity for procuring evacuations, as speedily as possible, before much debility has occurred. Sometimes, mortification is accompanied with a low typhoid kind of fever, which, whether the cause, or the consequence of the local mischief, demands the exhibition of bark. However, mortification may be attended with common inflammatory fever, and then the living margin is generally inflamed and painful. This is particularly the case, when mortification is the consequence of genuine acute inflammation, or of an external injury, in a healthy subject. Here, bark must obviously be injurious. Still, it is wrong to regard this medicine as invariably hurt- ful, whenever sphacelus is the effect of inflam- mation. It has already been observed, that the inflammation frequently has less share in the origin of the disorder than some incidental cause, which oftentimes requires the exhibition of bark. Even when mortification is the pure effect of inflammation, great prostration of strength may subsequently arise, and indeed does mostly take place at a certain period of the disorder. In this circumstance, the voice of experience loudly demands the employment of bark, though its exhibition would have been at first useless or hurtful. While genuine inflammatory fever, and local inflammation, are coexistent with mortifica- tion, antiphlogistic means are undoubtedly useful; but, great caution is requisite, since, in cases of humid gangrene, as it is termed, the inflamma- tory state very soon changes into one, in which the great feature is prostration of strength. When there is mere prostration of strength, without any symptom of gastric disorder, or of inflammation, or typhoid fever, bark is evidently proper, though seldom effectual alone; diapho- retic, and nervous medicines being also proper, opium, wine, camphor, ammonia, brandy, &c. 1 he constitutional disorder may be either inflam- matory, typhoid, or one connected with gastric disorder. Consequcrttly, there are three plans of constitutional treatment, and it is easy to de- termine the particular cases, in which bark is unnecessary, hurtful, or inefficacious. We meet with one species of mortification, in which the patient experiences severe pain in the part, without the smallest appearance of inflam- mation. Here bark is never of any use, and opium is regarded as the only medicine of much efficacy. This subject will be more fully con- sidered presently, when Mr. Pott’s remarks on a peculiar mortification of the toes and feet will be introduced. Bark sometimes occasions purging, and then it also proves inefficacious, and hurtful. This effect, however, may frequently be prevented by adding a few drops of laudanum to each dose. Bark often disagrees with the stomach; but it less frequently does so, when given in an exceed- ingly fine powder, which also generally proves most inefficacious. Also the administration of bark with wine, some aromatic water, or in the form of the cold infusion, is less likely to disorder the stomach. (Richter, Anfangsgr. dcr Wun- darzn. Kap. 3.) Several years ago I published a critique on the indiscriminate employment of bark in cases of mortification, and my remarks were inserted in the article Gangrene in Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia. Many of them were introduced into the Vd edi- tion of this Surgical Dictionary, printed in 1813. (See Cinchona.) Since this period, I am happy to find, that the blind enthusiasm with which bark was prescribed is beginning to subside, and that on this subject some eminent surgeons have of late publicly avowed sentiments, which entirely coincide with my former statements. “ I think (says Dr. Thomson) I have frequently seen it prove hurtful, when administered in cases of mortification, by loading the stomach of the patient, creating a dislike to food, and sometimes by exciting an obstinate diarrhoea. 1 believe it to be, in mortification, a medicine completely inert and inefficacious." (See Lectures on Inflam- mation, p. oG3.) By this expression, Professor Thomson does not mean to say, that bark can never be useful in cases of mortification, but only that it has no specific power in checking the disorder, as many have erroneously inculcated. “ Bark (says Professor Boyer) has been con- sidered by several distinguished English prac- titioners, as a true specific against gangrene in general, and especially against that, which de- pends upon an internal cause; but, subsequent observations to those published in England have proved, that it has no power over the immediate cause of gangrene, and that it only acts as a powerful tonic in stopping the progress of the disorder, and promoting the separation of the mortified parts.’’ (See Traitet des Maladies Chir. T. 1, p. 151, Paris, 1814.) Boyer also particularly objects to bark being given while inflammatory fever prevails; but, whenever he prescribes bark in cases of mortification, he seems to entertain the old prejudice of expecting benefit in proportion to thgKunntity which can be got into the stomach, the contrary, Mr. Guthrie declares, that he has not found bark useful, “ further than as a tonic, and given in sucli quantities as not to overload the stomach,” {On Gunshot Wounds, p. 148, Ed. <2 ;) a plan, which I have always recommended. For further observations on bark, the reader is referred to the article Cinchona. The sulphuric acid may frequently be advan- tageously given at the same time with the bark, and the best method of exhibiting it is to acidu- late with it every thing which the patient drinks A