BURNS. 251 i; be covered with linen dipped in the same, and ! renewed as often as it acquires warmth from the part. The application should be continued as !on<r as the heat and pain remain, which they wilf often do, for a great many hours. (See Essay on the Means of lessening the Ejf'ccts of Fire on the Human Body. Son. Land. 1803.) Some caution, however, in the application of cold becomes necessary, when a scald is of very . large size, or situated upon the trunk of the , joily. In extensive burns, superficial as they nay be, the patient is liable to be affected with ..old shiverings; and these shiverings may je greatly aggravated by exposure, and by the ;application of cold. Perhaps, therefore, in | these examples, warm applications ought to be j preferred. (Dr. J. Thomson’s Lectures on In- iammation, p. 591.) BARON LARREt’s PLAN. j It seems to me, that, on the subject of burns, ; here is, even at the present day, as much con- rariety of sentiment, as in any part of surgery whatsoever. After all the praises, which we lave of late years heard of vinegar, cold applica- i ions, oil of turpentine, See. a French surgeon, vhose talents, and opportunities of observation, intitle his opinion to the highest attention, has ecently censured the employment of all such re- nedies. Larrev, though a military surgeon, : as had occasion to see numerous burns, in con- | equenee of explosions. He declares, that he f : as been long struck with the bad effects of repel- :nts, such as fresh water with the muriate of j mmonia, oxycrate, the aqua vegeto-mineralis, , nd the solution of opium in ice-water, applica- fj onss which are extolled in some modern books, rj nd used in cases of deep burns, by a great number f practitioners; and he expresses his belief, 1 lat such injuries frequently prove mortal, for II ant of more judicious treatment. He recom- lends dressing all deep burns, with fine old I aen, spread with saffron ointment, which, he ivs, has the quality of diminishing the pain, id preventing irritation by keeping the nervous t ipillae from coming into contact with the air, or } ing pressed by the linen and clothes. The em- I oyment of this ointment, (or, in case good oil j :.nnot be procured for its composition, honey, stead of it) is to be continued till suppuration kes place. When this is established, Larrey c lploys the ointment of styrax, for the purpose e • supporting the systaltic power of the subjacent jtj - ssels, promoting the detachment of the eschars, I- a d checking the extension of the sloughing. i i * soon as the dead parts have separated, Larrey i* : ain has recourse to the saffron ointment, for ? ich he gradually substitutes dry lint, with ip* of linen spread with cerate. When the > ssels exceed the level of the edge of the sore, • touches them with the argentum nitraturn, ( 1 he occasionally applies a weak solution of : oxy-muriate of mercury, or of the sulphate I copper. Larrey prescribes emollient, and antispasmodic rerages, which are to be taken warm, such as lk oi almonds, containing nitre, and properly eetened; hydromel; rice ptisan. &c. His tients were never deprived of light nourish- mt, *uch as broths, jellies, eggs, soups, &c. is experience had taught him, that soldiers (who it is to be observed were his patients) can- not bear low diet, so well as persons leading an inactive life. Besides, he remarks, that as these injuries, with loss ol substance, are a long time in healing, it would be acting contrary to the precept of Hippocrates to put burnt patients on low diet. Larrey assures us, that he has found this simple treatment, which he calls soothing and gently tonic, almost always successful. (Sec M^moii(s de ChirurgieMilitai)e, Tom. ], p. 93.) dr. Kentish’s plan. From what has been stated, it appears, tlint in cases of burns, cold and hot, irritating and sooth- ing, astringent and emollient applications, have all been outwardly employed without much discrimi- nation. But, the internal treatment has always been of one kind, and both the ancients and moderns agree in advising blood-letting, cooling- purges, and, in short, the whole of the antiphlo- gistic plan. If we except Mr. Cleghorn, who con- demned purges, and allowed stimulants inter- nally, Dr. Kentish has been almost the only- advocate for the latter means. The fanciful theories, advanced by7 Dr. Kentish, lead him to believe, that as burns are injuries, at- tended with increased action, there are two indi- cations, for restoring what he terms the unity of action ; viz. the excitement, or action, of the part, is first to be gradually diminished; secondly, the action of the system is to be increased to meet the increased action of the part, holding this law as the system in view: That any part of the system, having its action increased to a very high degree, must continue to be excited, though in a less degree, cither by the stimulus, 'which caused the increased action, or some other having the nearest similarity to it, until by degrees the extraordinary action subsides into the healthy ac- tion of the part. With this view, holding the part to the fire seems, to Dr. Kentish, the best mode of relief; but, as parts of the body are injured, to which this cannot be done, the most stimulant applica- tions must be used; for, in this class, there is little fear of any of them being greater, than that which originally caused the accident. The strongest rectified spirits, made still stronger by essential oils, are proper, and may also be heated as much as the sound parts can bear. These, and many more applications of the same class, says Dr. Kentish, will give the most speedy and effectual relief. These are to be continued only for a certain time, lest they cause the very- ill which they are given to cure. They are then to be succeeded by less stimulant applications, until the parts act by common natural stimuli. The internal mode of relief is to give those substances, which soonest excite the system to great action, such as aether, ardent spirits, opium, wine, &c. by which means, the solution of continuity of action is allowed to last the shortest time possible, and the unity ol action is restored, which constitutes the cure. Suppose, for instance, os a local application, we at first apply7 the strongest alcohol, heated to the degree, which the sound part would bear without injury: it should afterwards be gradually diluted until it becomes proof spirit, and the heat should be diminished, although gradually, as