684 HYDROPHOBIA. changes, in the bitten part, or limb, at the first coming on of the indisposition. The early consti- tutional symptoms are not described, and the vio- lent spasms, screaming, &c. are the first things mentioned. Some particulars of the dog would also have been interesting. Such information, indeed, becomes still more essential, when we find it stated, that another man, Serjeant Jackson, was also bitten by the same dog, and had hydrophobia in a mild farm, from which he recovered under the use of mer- cury, blisters to the head, and cathartic injec- tions, without any recourse to bleeding at all. Tiiis last case is even more contrary than the former, to what general experience teaches; because mercury, blisters, and injections, have been tried a thousand times unavailir.gly ; while, perhaps, blood-letting, in the manner practised by Mr. Tymon, is a new treatment. Dr. School- bred, of Calcutta, published a second case of hy- drophobia cured by bleeding ad deliquium animi, and afterwards exhibiting calomel and opium. The patient, being threatened with a relapse, was largely bled again. The whole of the suc- cess is imputed by Dr. Schoolbred to the vene- section. But this gentleman is not so sanguine as to believe, that bleeding will cure every case of hydrophobia. It is probable, that there is a period, beyond which its curative effect cannot extend, and, therefore, it is upon the first ap- pearance of unequivocal symptoms of the dis- ease, that, he thinks copious bleeding affords a prospect of success, while the delay of only a few hours may prove fatal. He observes, that the medical profession, taught by numerous dis- appointments, admit very cautiously the claims of any new practice to general adoption. If several patients in hj^drophobia, therefore, should happen to be bled in an advanced stage of the disease, and die, (as they inevitably would do, whether they had been bled or not,) such cases would be quoted against the new practice, as failures. But, Dr. Schoolbred rightly contends, that numerous failures in an advanced stage of the disease can form no just ground for the re- jection of a remedy, which has incontestably ef- fected a cure in an earlier stage of the disorder. He insists upon the necessity of making a large orifice in the vein, so as to evacuate the blood quickly, which must be allowed to flow, without regard to quantity, ad deliquium animi. Dr. Schoolbred was well aware, that bleeding in cases of hydrophobia had often been tried. But, says he, owing probably to the evacuation not having been pushed far enough, when used in the early stage of the disease; or to the period for its beneficial employment having elapsed; the cases, in which it was tried, afforded little, or no encouragement to the continuance of the practice. Since the preceding cases, the effect of bleed- ing has had the fairest trials made of it, and some of the reports are in favor of its occasional utility. (See Particulars of the successful Treatment of a Case of Hydrophobia, by II. Wynne, 8vo. Shrewsbury, 1813; Also Edmonstone in Loud. Med. Repository, Vol. 3, p. 93.) In almost every instance, however, it fails in hindering the usual melancholy event. (See Kerrison s Case and Obs. in Med. Repository, Vol. ‘1, p. 197.) This unpleasant truth, I think, receives con- firmation from the fact, that the practice is far from being new. Dr. Mead, who was very confident, that he bad found an infallible preventive of the disease in a little liverwort and black pepper, aided by bleeding and cold bathing before the commence- ment of the course of medicine, says, “as to all other ways of curing the hydrophobia, I own I have not been so happy as to find any success from the many I have tried. Bathing at this time is ineffectual. I have taken many large quantities of blood ; have given opiates, volatile salts, &c. All has been in vain, because too late.'’ Notwithstanding his disappointment, he concludes, “ If any relief could be expected in this desperate slate, I think it would be from bleeding, even ad animi deliquium," SfC. 1 he doctrines of Boerhaave also led him and his pupils to recommend and practise bleeding in hydrophobia. “The distemper (says he) is to be treated as one highly inflammatory, upon the first appearance of the signs which denote its in- vasion, by blood-letting from a large orifice, con- tinued till the patient faints away ; and soon after by enemata of warm wrater and vinegar, &c. and he adds, “ that this practice is supported by some small number of trials.” But the par- ticulars of this successful practice, are not given. Dr. Schoolbred finds, that a trial of it was made at Edinburgh, more than sixty years ago, by Dr. Rutherford who took away gradually sixty ounces of blood from a patient, who had already been bled the same morning. As the patient lived forty-eight hours after the large bleeding, the method was probably tried some- what early in the disease ; and the case may therefore1 be set down as a fair instance of a fail- ure of the practice. The trials, which have been made in this country of the practice of bleeding, in cases of hydrophobia, Since the receipt of the above reports from India, I am sorry to say, have not confirmed its efficacy, as a means which can be much depended upon for saving the patients. Bleeding was also recommended in cases of hydrophobia, by Poupart. (See Hist, del'Acad. Royale dcs Sciences, pour Vannee 1699. p. 48.) The practice is likewise mentioned in the Medi- cal Essays of Edinburgh, Vol. 5, part 2, $5; and in the writings of Dr. Rush. See also Dr. Burton's Case, Phil. Mag. August, 18u5. After all that has been said, and the little con- fidence assigned to any practice but that of the early excision, or amputation of the bitten parts, it is necessary, that something should be done after the actual commencement of rabies, and that every practitioner should be prepared for the adoption of some mode of treatment, or another. As however, my own mind is not made up upon the subject, I prefer offering a conclusion or two, made by a modern critical writer: “That expe- rience authorizes the placing confidence in bleed- ing ad deliquium ; on vomiting ; and perhaps on use of atropa belladonna ; and, on tobacco ex- hibited as a glyster. That it is probable, advan- tage would result from the combined employment of bleeding, vomiting, (see Dr. Sattcrly's Obs. in Medical Trans. Vol. 4,) and purging in the early stage of the disease. That analogy re- commends the trial of spirit of turpentine in the convulsive stage of the disease.” {Med. Repository, Vol. 3, p. 54-) Jos. dc Aromata-