ENCANTIIIS. 421 the body of the encanthis preserves that granu- lated appearance, which prevailed at first; while one, or both the appendages, on the inside of the eyelids, appear rather like a fleshy than a granu- lated substance. On turning out the inside of the eyelids', these appendages, or elongations of the encanthis, form a prominence projecting forward. When both eyelids are equally affected, and turned in- side out, the appendages conjointly represent, as it were, a ring, the back of which rests on the globe of the eye. Sometimes, the encanthis assumes a cancerous malignancy. This character is evinced by the dull red, leaden, or (as Beer says) the blueish- red colour of the excrescence ; by its excessive hardness, and the lancinating pains, which occur in it, and extend to the forehead, the whole eye- ball, and the temple, especially, when the tumor has been slightly touched. It is, also, evinced by the propensity of the excrescence to bleed, by the partial ulcerations on its surface, which emit a fungous substance, and a thin, and exceed- ingly acrid discharge. The disease is constantly attended with epiphora, and preceded by a scir- rhous induration of the caruncle. The eyeball, and neighbouring bones, which are of a spongy texture, are said to participate very soon in the disease, the lower eyelid also becoming everted. (Beer, Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2, p. 187, 188.) This form of encanthis only admits of palliative treatment; unless, indeed, an effort be made to extirpate it entirety, together with the whole of what is contained in the orbit, and, even :then, the event is dubious. Beer joins Scarpa in the statement, that the operation rarely proves successful, and adds, that it is always followed by an incurable weeping, . md a considerable eversion of the lower eyelid. Vol. cit. p. 18.9.) Fortunately, the truly can- cerous encanthis is uncommon; and Mr. Tra- -ers, who was a surgeon to the London Eye Infir- nary several years, never met with an instance f it. (Synopsis of Diseases of the Eye, p. 103.) The benign encanthis, how large soever it may >e, is always curable by extirpation. Those in- tances, which are small, incipient, and granu- ; ited, like a mulberry, or of a fringed structure, •hich originate either from the caruncula la- hrymalis, or the semilunar fold of the conjunc- va, or from both these parts togetiier, and even t part from the internal commissure of the eye- ds, may be raised by means of a pair of forceps, nd cut ofFfrom the whole of their origin, closely > their base, with the curved scissars with con- ax edges. In the performance of this opera- on, it is unnecessary to introduce a needle and iread through this little excrescence, as some e wont to do, for the purpose of raising it, and istroying more accurately all its origins, and Ihesions. The same object is fulfilled by means forceps, without inconveniencing the patient th a puncture of this kind, and drawing a read through the part, in order to make a >ose. However, in cutting out an encanthis this small size, care should be taken not to move, together with that portion of the excres- nce which originates from the caruncula la- ry malis, any more of this latter body, than what absolutely necessary for the precise eradica- tion of the disease, in order that no irremediable weeping may be occasioned. When the little excrescence has been de- tached from all its roots, says Scarpa, the eye must be washed several times with cold water in order to cleanse it from the blood, and then it is to be covered with' a piece of fine linen, and a re- tentive bandage. On the 5th, 6th, or 7th day, the inflammation arising from the operation en- tirety ceases, and the suppuration from the wound is accompanied with the mucous appearance al- ready described. The little wounds are then to be touched with a piece of alum, scraped to a point like a crayon, and the vitriolic collyrium, containing the mucilage of quince seeds, is to be injected into the affected eye several times a day. If these means should not bring about the wished-for cicatrization; but, on the contrary, the small wounds situated on the caruncula, and internal commissure of the eyelids, should be- come stationary, and covered with proud flesh, the argentum nitratum ought to be applied to them. The conjunctiva, however, should be avoided as much as possible, especially, if at all wounded. When the fungous granulations have been destroyed, the cure may be perfected by the collyrium already mentioned, or rather by introducing, thrice a day, between the eyeball and internal angle of the eyelids, the powder of tutty, and the armenian bole. Bidloo extols very much powdered chalk, either alone, or in conjunction with burnt alum. (Exercit. Anat. Chir. Decad. 2.) Excision is equally applicable to the inveterate encanthis, which is of considerable size, and broken down at its body, or which forms a pro- minence, as large as a nut, or chestnut, with two . fleshy appendages extending along the inner surface of one, or both eyelids. The application of a ligature to such an excrescence ought never to be regarded as a method of cure; for the large, inveterate encanthis never has a sufficiently narrow neck to admit of being tied. On the contrary, when the tumor is voluminous, its roots, invariably, extend to the caruncula la- chrymalis, the semilunar fold, and the conjunctiva covering the eyeball, oftentimes, nearly as far as the cornea. In this state, also, the encanthis has one, or two fleshy appendages, which reach along the membranous lining of one, or both eyelids. Hence, though the ligature were to produce a separation of the body of the encanthis, one, or both the appendages would still remain to be ex- tirpated. This second operation could only be accomplished with the knife. In this disease, there is no foundation for the fear of hemorrhage, to which the advocates for the ligature attach so much importance; for, cases are recorded of considerable, inveterate enennthes being re- moved, without the least untoward occurrence from loss of blood. To these, Scarpa observes, he could add a great number of his own, so that no doubt can now be entertained on this point. Pellier relates a case, in which an encanthis was followed by a dangerous hemorrhage, though it had been cut out by an expert oculist. He enters, however, into no detail concerning the nature of the complaint, nor the way, in winch the operation was performed; circumstances