URETHRA. 1001 4 A 2 instrument should be worn, for a few hours, every day, till the passage is sufficiently dilated to ad- mit a larger one. Mr. Whately, after explaining, that caustic potassa ought not to be applied to strictures of the urethra, till a bougie of a proper size can be passed into the bladder; pointing out ihe methods to be taken, before applying this caustic; and enumerating certain cases and cir- cumstances, in which its employment is inter- dicted ; next proceeds to describe the mode of practice, which it is the particular object of his book to recommend. For the purpose of arming a bougie, Mr. Whatelyadvises us to put a small quantity of cau- • Stic potassa upon a piece of strong paper, and to break the bit of caustic with a hammer into small .pieces of about the size of large and small pins’ heads. In doing this, care should be taken not to reduce it to powder. Thus broken, it should je kept for use in a phial, closed with a ground ■topper. The bougie should have a proper de- cree of curvature given to it, by drawing it se- veral times between the finger and thumb of the eft hand. Mr. Whately next acquaints us, that before ‘ lie caustic is inserted into the bougie, it is ne- tessary to ascertain the exact distance of the dricture (to which the caustic is to be applied), rom the extremity of the penis. For this pur- iose, the bougie, which should be just large nougli to enter the stricture with some degree !'f tightness, ought to be gently introduced into he urethra; and when its point stops at the tricture, which it almost always does, before it dll enter it, a notch is to be made with the ringer-nail, on the upper or curved portion of he bougie, on the outside of the urethra, ex- ctly half an inch from the extremity of the . enis. When the bougie is withdrawn, a small ole, about the sixteenth part of an inch deep, lould be made at the extremity of its rounded nd. A large blanket-pin, two inches and a half 1 length, with the head struck off, will answer le purpose; the hole being made with the point f the pin. The extremity of the bougie should len be made perfectly smooth with the finger ad thumb, taking care, that, in doing this, the ole in its centre be not closed. Some of the roken caustic should then be put on a piece of riting paper, and a piece less in size, than the nallest pin’s head, should be selected; the par- cle, indeed, says Mr. Whately, cannot be too nail for the first application. Let this be in- wted into the hole of the bougie with a pocket- nife, spatula, or some such instrument; and islied into it with the blunt end of the pin, 1 as to make the caustic sink a very little dew the margin of the hole. To prevent the Jtassa fusa from coming out, the hole should icn be contracted a little with the finger, and ie remaining vacancy in it is to be filled with 3g s lard. This last substance (continues Mr. ately) will prevent the caustic from acting on c sound part of the urethra, as the bougie ‘■ses to the stricture. When the bougie is Jite prepared, let it be first oiled, and immedi- e y afterwards introduced, by a very gentle otion, with the curvature upwards, as far as 6 an*crj°r part of the stricture, upon which c caustic is to be applied. In doing this, i v the end of tiie bougie, held by the finger and thumb, should be a good deal inclined towards the abdomen, on the first introduction of the instrument in order to preserve its curvature. After it has passed about five inches, this end should be gradually brought downwards, as the bougie passes on, till it forms a right angle with the body. The bougie is known to have arrived at the stricture by the resistance made to its pro- gress. As soon as the bougie has reached the anterior part of the stricture, it should rest there for a few seconds, that the caustic may begin to dis- solve. It should then be pushed very gently forward, about one-eighth of an inch; after which, there should be another pause, for a se- cond, or two. The bougie should then be car- ried forward in the same gentle manner, till it has got through the stricture. The sense of feeling will generally inform the operator when the point of the bougie has proceeded so far; but, the notch in the bougie is to be an additional guide, by becoming very near the orifice of the urethra, when the end of the instrument has just got through the stricture. The bougie should now be immediately with- drawn by a very gentle motion to the part, at which it was first made to rest awhile. Then it should be very slowly passed through the stric- ture a second time; but, without letting the bou- gie stop in its passage. If the patient complain of pain, or be faint, the bougie should be imme- diately withdrawn; but, if these effects are not produced, we may repeat the operation of passing and withdrawing the bougie through the stricture once or twice more, before we finish the opera- tion, which will take up, in the whole, about two minutes. The first application of the potassa fusa, in this manner, gives, according to Mr. Whately’s account, a very little pain. A slight scalding in making water, and a trifling discharge, during the first day or two, however, are commonly produced. At the end of seven days, the application of the caustic is to be repeated in the same manner. When the first application has enlarged the aper- ture of the stricture, which may be known by passing a bougie through it, of the same size as that by which the caustic was conveyed, the bougie used in the second operation, should be a size larger than the one used in the first; but it must not be too large to pass through the stricture. If the patient had no pain on the first application, the bit of potassa fusa may also be trivially larger. At the end of seven days more, the armed bougie should be introduced a third time. At this, and all future applications, the bougie should be increased in size, in proportion as the aperture in the stricture becomes dilated. The quantity of caustic, however, is never to be increased in a ratio to the size of the bougie. In no cases whatever, does Mr. Whately apply more of the potassa fusa at a time, than a piece about the size of a common pin’s-head. rI welve bits of the largest size, which this gentleman ever uses, weigh one grain. When there are several strictures, the potassa fusa should be generally applied to only one at a time. An interval of seven days is what Mr. Whately