3 IS CATARACT. traded, difficult and dangerous. Mr. Ware On the preceding subject, Beer remarks, that usually removed opaque portions of the cataract when none of the lens itself is left behind,* but by means of a curette; and, occasionally, when there is a slight degree of opacity in the anterior the opaque substance was large, and adherent to layer of the capsule, easily distinguishable from, the capsule, he was obliged to extract it with the cut flakes, and producing the least obstacle small forceps. Before finishing the operation, to vision, the opaque membrane should be taken! Mr. Ware approves of always rubbing the end away with the forceps, in the manner described! of the finger gently on the fore part of the eye, in the preceding pages ; for, otherwise a second- j over the eyelids; which proceeding tends to ary capsular cataract will follow, which will be- < bring into view any opaque matter, which may come of a snow-white colour, and if only a trivial I previously lie behind the iris. Mr. Ware relates degree of iritis take place after the operation, it a case, proving, that such opacities, as cannot be will become adherent to the iris, and the pupil! removed in the operation, are capable of being become contracted and disfigured. (B. 2, p. 388.)! absorbed. Beer does not agree with Ware in condemn-1 When, notwithstanding the observance of the ing all attempts to remove the posterior layer of directions laid down by Beer, as explained in the the capsule, when found opaque, after the ex- j previous columns, some of the pultaceous, or scab- traction of the lens. The case, he savs, is indi- j rous surfa e of the cataract is detached, and con- tinues behind in the posterior chamber, Beer says, that it ought to be immediately removed, lest the patient be left with a secondary lenticular cata- ract, which, he observes, is not always so certain of being dissolved and absorbed, as some imagine. The fragments may be removed in two ways ; and, first, the experiment of rubbing the upper eyelid over the eye should be made, because it not unfrequently brings the remains, especially when they are gelatinous, completely through the pupil, and out of the incision in the cornea. But, if such manoeuvre should not be effectual, Beer recommends cautiously introducing Daviel’s cu- rette to the outer pupillary edge of the iris, with its concavity towards the inner surface of the flap of the cornea, without raising this flap unnecessarily high, and then the operator is to endeavour to scoop out at once as much of the opaque matter as he can, and bring it to the inner surface of the cornea. He says, that it will rarely be necessary frequently to repeat the introduction of the curette. (B. 2, p. 387.) According to Mr. Ware, an opacity of\the capsule can be the only reason for removing it. The anterior part, he says, can alone become the object of the operator’s attention: its posterior part is necessarily hidden, while the cataract remains in the eye, and afterwards, if discovered to be opaque, it is so closely connected with the capsule of the vitreous humor, that Mr. Ware believes it can- not be removed by anyinstrument, without hazard- ing a destructive effusion of this humor. When, however, the opaque lens is accom- panied with an opacity in the front part of the capsule, Mr. Ware recommends the following plan. After cutting the cornea, as usual, a fine pointed instrument, somewhat smaller in size than a round couching-needle, and a little bent towards the point, should be introduced under the flap of the cornea, with its bent part upward, until its point is parallel with the aperture of the pupil. The point should then be turned toward the opaque capsule, which is to be punctured by it. in a circular direction, as near to the rim of the pupil as the instrument can be applied, with- out hurting the iris. Sometimes, the part in- cluded within the punctures, may be extracted on the point of the instrument; and, if this cannot be done, it should be removed with a small pair of forceps. The lens, whether opaque, or trans- parent, should next be extracted, by making a slight pressure with the curette, either above, or below, the circumference of the cornea. cated by the light-grey speckled appearance of! the whole pupil, and by the patient seeing nothing j at all, or objects only indistinctly in a thick mist. • Beer advises a cataract-tenaculum to be passed ! into the pupil, in the same way as the capsule- 1 needle is introduced in the second stage of ex- i traction, directing its point downwards as it enters, t and upwards when it is brought out again. After j it has entered the pupil, it is to be made to divide j and annihilate, by repeated turns of the tenaculum, i the back layer of the capsule, and also the mem- j brana hyaloidea, directly behind it, which, in such > a case, is always adherent, and opaque. Of these membranes a considerable part, closely wound I round the hook, mayr be taken out of the eye, I though never without some slight loss of the vitreous humor. In cases of this kind, the patient ought to be informed, that, though his sight will be restored, a part of the cataract must be left, and will be visible behind the pupil, particularly when it is dilated ; for, otherwise, suspicions may arise, that the operation has been badly done, and a relapse apprehended. (B. 2, p. 388.) Mr. Ware iias considered the bad consequences of allowing foreign bodies of any kind, after the operation, to press unequally on the globe of the eye; comprehending, under this head, the inter- vention of the edge of the lower eyelid between the sides of the divided cornea; the inversion of the edge of the lower eyelid ; and the lodg- ment of one, or more, loose eyelashes on the globe of the eye. To prevent the first accident, every operator, before applying the dressings, should carefully depress the lower eyelid ; and, before he suffers the lid to rise, should take care, that the flap of the cornea be accurately adjusted in its proper position ; and, that the upper lid be dropped, so ' as completely to cover it. After this, the eyelids should not be opened again, for three or four days, that is, until there is a good reason to suppose , the wound in the cornea closed. (TThirc.) The inversion of the lower eyelid is hurtful, in consequence of its making the eyelashes rub j against the eye. These should be extracted the 1 day before the operation. For the mode of cf- > fecting a permanent cure, see Trichiasis. Besides the danger, to which the eye is ex- posed, from the inversion of the edge of the lid. the eye may receive injury from the improper position of the eyelashes alone; one, or more of which, during the operation, may happen to bend J inwards; or,becoming loose, may afterwards in- sinuate themselves between the inside of the lid