356 DISLOCATION. or less laceration or elongation of the ligaments: l>er recurs after it lias been made to disappear, and, in the shoulder and hip, the capsules are al- The surgeon must also recollect, that an elonga- ways torn, when the accident has been produced lion of the limb can never happen in eases of by violence. Some instances, in which the liga- fracture, as it does in certain dislocations. merits are only lengthened and relaxed, I have already quoted. SYMPTOMS OF DISLOCATIONS. As Boyer justly observes, there is not any dis- location, which does not produce pain and inca- pacity in the limb ; but, these symptoms are only equivocal, and cannot distinguish the case from a fracture ; nor even from a simple con- tusion. He divides the symptoms of dislocations into those which may be collected from the cir- cumstances attending the occurrence of the ac- cident ; and into others, which he calls present, or positive. In order that a dislocation may happen, there must be a particular attitude of the limb during the action of the external violence. Indeed the displacement can hardly occur from the direct action of the cause on the articulation itself. The action of the luxating cause is the more efficient, the further it is from the joint, and the longer the lever is, which it affects. Thus, in a fall on the side, when the arm, raised considerably from the trunk, has had to sustain all the weight of the body on a point at its inner side, the proba- bility of a dislocation is evident, and even that the head of the bone has been forced through the lower portion of the capsular ligament. But, the symptoms, which Boyer terms posi- tive, or actually present, are numerous and clear: ]. In dislocations of orbicular joints, and com- plete luxations of ginglymoid joints, the arti- cular surfaces are not at all in contact, and the point, where the dislocated bone is lodged, can- not be upon the same level with the centre of the cavity, from which it has been forced. Hence, a change in the length of the limb. In the gin- glymoid joints, such alteration can only be a shortening proportioned to the extent of the dis- placement ; for there is then an overlapping of the bones, similar to that of the fragments of a frac- ture, longitudinally displaced. But in the orbicu- lar joints, the bone may be displaced and carried above, or below, the articular cavity, so that, in the first event, a shortening, in the second, an elongation of the limb, will be produced. But, as the direction of the member is at the same time altered, it is not always practicable to place the limbs parallel together, nor to bring them near the trunk for the purpose of judging, whe- ther they are lengthened, or shortened. A com- parison, however, made without this advantage, will generally enable the surgeon to form a cor- rect opinion. The proper length of a dislocated limb cannot be restored, except by putting the bone back into the cavity, from which it has slipped. In general, this cannot be accomplished without considerable eflbrts, while a slight exer- tion is usually sufficient to obtain the same effect in cases, where the shortening of the limb' de- pends upon a fracture It is also particularly worthy of notice, that, when once the natural length of the limb has been restored in disloca- tions, it remains, while there are a great many fractures, in which the shortening of the mcm- 2. In almost all complete luxations, the di- rection of the axis of the limb is unavoidably altered. This circumstance arises from the re- sistance of that portion of the articular ligaments, which has not been ruptured, as well as from the action of the muscles. In complete lateral dislocations of ginglymoid joints, the direction of the axis of the limb is not altered, on account of the total rupture of the ligaments, and even of a part of the surrounding muscles. Neither is this observable in incomplete dislocations of such articulations, on account of the extent of the articular surfaces. But, it is strongly marked in complete luxations of these joints, where the displacement lias happened in the direction of the articular movements, although in cases of this description the ligaments must be totally rup- tured. The muscles, which have suffered less, are in a state of extreme tension, and must ne- cessarily alter the axis of the limb. The ten- sion of certain muscles, and the preservation of some of the ligaments, especially in the orbicu- lar joints, are also a cause of a rotatory move- ment of the dislocated limb at the moment of the displacement, and which it afterwards retains. Thus, in luxations of the (high, the toes, and knee, are turned outward, or inward, according as the head of the thigh bone happens to be situa- ted at the inside, or outside of the joint. These two kinds of alteration in the direction of the limb are permanent when they depend upon a dislocation ; a circumstance quite different from what is observable in fractures, where the same changes occur, but can be made to cease at once without any particular effort. 3. The absolute immobility of a limb, or. at least, the inability of performing certain motions, is amongst the most characteristic symptoms of a dislocation. In some complete luxations of particular ginglymoid joints, the dislocated limb is absolutely, or very nearly incapable of any motion. Thus, in the dislocation of the fore-arm backwards, the particular disposition of the bones, and the ex- treme tension of the extensor and flexor muscles, confine the limb in the half bent state, and at the same time resist every spontaneous motion, and likewise almost every motion, which is communi- cated. In the orbicular joints, the painful ten- sion of the muscles, which surround the luxated bone, nearly impedes ali spontaneous move- ments, but, in general, analogous motions to that, by which the displacement was produced, can be communicated to the limb, though not without exciting pain. Thus, in the dislocation of the humerus downward, the elbow’ hardly ad- mits of being put near the side, nor of being carried forward, and backward; but it can be raised up with case. In the dislocation of th® acromial end of the clavicle, the patient can bring the' arm towards the trunk, separate it 3 little from the side, or carry it forward or back- ward ; but lie cannot raise it in a direct way. Lastly, in complete lateral dislocations of such joints, as have alternate motions, the patient ha* the power of performing no motion of the part) but, the complete destruction of ail the incans <■