ANUS. 192 and much distempered habits; or the effect of, or combined with, other distempers, local or general; such as a diseased ncclc of the bladder, or prostate gland, or urethra, Sec. Sec. See. Among the very low people, who are brought into hospitals, we frequently meet with eases of the former kind: cases, which, at first, were mere simple abscesses; but which from unclean- liness, from intemperance, negligence, and dis- tempered constitutions, become such kind of sores, as may be calledfistulous. In these the art of surgery is undoubtedly, in some measure, and at some time, necessary; but it very seldom is the first or principal foun- tain from whence relief is to be sought: the general effects of intemperance, debaucherv, and diseases of the habit are first to be corrected and removed, before surgery can with propriety, or with reasonable prospect of advantage, be made use of. The surgery required in these cases, consists in laying open and dividing the sinus, or sinuses, in such manner that there may be no possible lodgment for matter, and that such cavities may- be fairly opened lengthwise into that of the in- testine rectum: if the internal parts of these hollows are hard, and do not yield good matter, which is sometimes the case, more especially where attempts have been made to cure by in- jecting astringent liquors, such parts should be lightly scratched or scarified with the point of a knife or lancet, but not dressed with escharoties; and if, either from the multiplicity of external orifices, or from the loose, flabby, hardened, or inverted state of the lips and edges of the wound near to the fundament, it seems very improbable that they can be got into such a state as to heal smoothly and evenly-, such portion of them should be cut off as may just serve that purpose. The dressings should be soft, easy, and light; and the whole intent of them to produce such sup- puration as mayr soften the parts, and bring them into a state fit for healing. If a loose, fungous kind of flesh has taken possession of the inside of the sinus, (a thing much talked of, and very seldom met with) a slight touch of the lunar caustic will reduce it sooner, and with better effect on the sore, than any other escharotic whatever. The method and medicines, by' which the habit of “the patient was corrected, must be con- tinued (at least in some degree) through the whole cure; and all the excesses and irregula- rities, which may have contributed to injure it, must be avoided. By these means, cases which at first have a most disagreeable and formidable aspect, are frequently brought into such state, as to give very little trouble in the healing. If the bad state of the sore arises merely from its having been crammed, irritated, and eroded; the method of obtaining relief is so obvious, as hardly to need recital. A patient who has been so treated, lias ge- nerallv some degree of fever ; has a pulse which is too hard, and too quick; is thirsty, and does not get his due quantity of natural rest. A sore which has been so dressed, has generally a con- siderable degree of inflammatory hardness round about; the lips and edges of it are found full, flamed, and sometimes inverted; the whole verge of the anus is swollen ; the lixmorrbeidaf vessels are loaded ; the discharge from the sore is large, thin, and discoloured; and all the lower part of the rectum participates of the inflammatory- irritation, producing pain, bearing-down, tenes- mus, &e Central in coniiariis is never more true than in this instance: the painful, uneasy state of the sore, and of the rectum, is the great cause of all the mischief, both general and particu- lar; and the first intention must be to alter that state. All escharoties must be thrown out, and disused ; and in lieu of them, a soft digestive should be substituted, in such manner as not to cause any distention, or to give any uneasiness from quantity-: over which a poultice should be applied: these dressings should be renewed twice a day; and the patient should be enjoined ab- solute rest. At the same time, attention should be paid to the general disturbance, which the former treatment may have created Blood should be drawn off from the sanguine ; the feverish heat should be calmed by proper medi- cines ; the languid and low should be assisted with the bark and cordials; and ease in the part must, at all events, be obtained by the injection of anodyne cly-sters of starch and opium. If the sinus has not yet been laid open, and the bad state of parts is occasioned by the intro- duction of tents imbued with escharoties, or bv the injection of astringent liquors, (the one for the destruction of callosity, the other for the dry- ing up gleet and humidity-) no operation of any kind should be attempted until both the patient and the parts are easy, cool, and quiet: cata- plasms, clysters, rest, and proper medicines must procure this: and when that is accomplished, the operation of dividing the sinus, and (if necessary) of removing a small portion of the ragged edges, may- be executed, and will, in all probability-, be attended with success. On the contrary, if such operation be performed while the parts are in a state of inflammation, the pain will be great, the sore for several days very troublesome, and the cure prolonged or retarded, instead of being ex- pedited. Abscesses, and collections of diseased fluids, are frequently formed about the lumbar vertebrae, under the psoas muscle, and near to the os sacrum; in which cases, the said bones are sometimes carious, or otherwise diseased. These sometimes form sinuses, which run down by the side of the rectum, and burst near to the fundament. The chirurgic treatment of such sores and sinuses can have little influence on the remote situation, where the collection of matter is ori- ginally formed. (See Lumbar Abscess.) Fistulous sores, sinuses, and indurations about the anus, which are consequences of diseases of the neck of the bladder, and urethra, called fistulae in perinaeo, require separate and particular con- sideration. (Sec Fistula in Perinun.) Pott may- be considered as the source and authority of the foregoing remarks. M. Roux has lately published a sort of cri- tique on the preference, which English surgeons invariably give to Pott’s method of operating for the fistula in ano. The chief peculiarity in the French plan, on which he bestows unqualified praise, consists in the use of a kind of director, called a gorget, which is usually made of ebony wood, and intended to be introduced within the