1164 VENEREAL DISEASE. When surfaces of the body, covered with hair, are attacked, the hair separates, and cannot be reproduced, as long as the disease lasts. It must be allowed, that it is frequently very difficult to say, whether an eruption is syphilitic, or not, and an opinion should rather be formed from the history of the case, than from any par- ticular appearance of the eruption itself. As Dr. Bateman has remarked, the cutaneous eruptions, which are the result of the venereal poison, are often the source ot considerable embarrassment to the practitioner. They assume such a variety of forms, that they bid defiance to any arrange- ment founded upon their external character; and, in fact, they possess no common, or ex- clusive marks, by which their nature and origin are indicated. There is, perhaps, no order of cutaneous appearances, and scarcely any genus, or species of the chronic eruptions, which these secondary symptoms of syphilis do not occasion- ally resemble. Dr. Bateman admits, however, that, in many cases, there is a difference, which a practised eye will recognise, between the or- dinary diseases of the skin and the syphilitic eruptions, to which the same generic appellation might be given. This, says he, is often obser- vable in the shade of colon?', hi the situation oc- cupied by the eruption, in the mode of its dis- tribution, and in the general complexion of the patient. Hence, to a person conversant with those ordinary diseases, a degree of anomaly in these respects will immediately excite a sus- picion, which will lead him to investigate the history of the progress of such an eruption, and of its concomitant symptoms. (See Bateman s Practical Synopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, p. 331, 332, 'Edit. 3.) Dr. Hennen, in his valuable book, does not pretend to be able to discriminate the true syphilitic eruptions from others, and, indeed, by what criterion they are to be known, I am my- self entirely puzzled to comprehend, after the numerous facts, so fully established by recent experimental inquiries. Dr. Hennen generally approves of delaying mercury at first, in order to see whether these cutaneous affections will yield to other means; “ but (says he) I should not very long postpone the employment of the mildest mercurial alteratives, aided by warm bathing, and sudorifics. (On Military Sur- gery, Ed. 2, p. 51S.) Venereal Disease of the Throat, Mouth, and Tongue. —In the throat, tonsils, and inside of the mouth, the disease is said by Mr. Hunter generally to make its appearance at once in the form of an ulcer, without much previous tume- faction. Consequently, the tonsils are not much enlarged. A venereal ulcer in the throat was supposed by the same author to be in general tolerably well marked, though he confesses, that, it may not in every instance be distinguishable from an ulcer of a different nature. Several diseases of the throat, he remarks, do not produce ulcera- tion on the surface. One of these is common inflammation of the tonsils. I he inflamed place often suppurates in the centre, so as to form an abscess, which bursts by a small opening; but, in tlmt has bemin suner- pain, and tumefaction, of the parts, to be vene- real. Also when it suppurates and bursts, it subsides directly, and it is generally attended with other inflammatory symptoms in the con- stitution. Mr. Hunter then notices an indolent tume- faction of the tonsils, peculiar to many persons, whose constitutions are disposed to scrophula. The complaint produces a thickness in the speech. Sometimes coagulable lymph is thrown out on the surface of the parts affected, and occasions appearances, which are by some called ulcers; by some, sloughs ; and by others, putrid sore-throats. The case is attended with too much swelling to be venereal, and, with a little care, it may easily be distinguished from an ulcer, or loss of substance. However, when this difference is not obvious at first sight, it is proper to endeavour to remove some of the lymph, and, if the surface of the tonsil under- neath should appear to be free from ulceration, we may conclude with certainty, that the dis- ease is not venereal. Mr. Hunter states, that he has seen a chink filled with coagulable lymph, so as to appear very much like an ulcer; but, on removing that substance, the tonsil under- neath was found perfectly sound. He adds, that he has seen cases of a swelled tonsil, having a slough in its centre, which slough, before its detachment, looked very like a foul ulcer. The stage of the complaint, he says, is even more puzzling, when the slough has come out; for then the disease has most of the characters of the venereal ulcer. Whenever he met with the dis- ease in its first stage, he always treated it, as if it had been of the nature of erysipelas, or a car- buncle. When the complaint is in its second stage, without any preceding local symptoms, he 'recommends the practitioner to suspend his judgment, and to wait a little, in order to see how far nature is able to relieve herself. If there should have been any preceding fever, the case is still less likely to be venereal. Mr. Hunter informs us, that he has seen a sore- throat of this kind mistaken for a venereal case, and mercury given, till it affected the mouth, when the medicine brought on a mortification of all the parts concerned in the first disease. Another complaint of these parts, which Mr. Hunter represents as being often taken for a vene- real one, is an ulcerous excoriation, which runs along theirsurface, becoming very broad and some- times foul, having a regular termination, but, never going deeply into the substance of the parts, as Mr. Hunter believes the venereal ulcer does. No part of the inside of the mouth is exempt from this ulcerous excoriation; but, according to Mr. Hunter, the disease most frequently occurs about the root of the uvula, and spreads forwards along the palatum molle. lie remarks, that the complaint is evidently not venereal, since it does not, yield to mercury. He has seen these ulcerous excoriations continue for weeks, without undergoing any change, and a true venereal ulcer make its appearance on the surface of the ex- coriated part. He says, that such excoriations were cured by bark, after the end of the mer- curial course, by which the syphilitic sore was cured.