939 PROSTATE GLAND. f '*■ . ri ard. However, Bichat conceives, that such an npearance must generally be obliterated as the xcremcnt is passing through the sphincter. iVhen the patient attempts to make water, it is a ong while before the first drops come out, and s straining has the effect of propelling the | . welled prostate more against the neck of the ladder, it only increases the difficulty, and no rine will come out until such efforts are discon- inued. The more violent the inflammation is, he smaller is the stream of urine, and the more cute the pain felt during its expulsion. Ac- cording to Desault, it is likewise particularly re- 1, markable in such cases, that if an attempt be nade to introduce a catheter, the instrument >asses without the least resistance as far as the arostate gland, where it stops, and causes great ■ Jain. The pulse is hard and frequent; and the mtient is exceedingly thirsty and feverish. De- ll-sault considered the retention of urine in cases af this kind, and, indeed, in all enlargements of the prostate gland, or other obstruction of the urethra, as generally more dangerous than other -retentions, merely depending upon weakness of the bladder, where there is little risk of this organ giving way. When the urethra is free from obstruction, the urine, after distending the bladder in a certain degree, generally oozes through that canal, and the patient may live in this condition for years, without any alarming ymptoms. But the case is different when the retention of urine depends upon any stoppage, tor stricture in the urethra. The urine does not t then partially escape, but stagnates in the blad- der; the distention increases; and, if speedy re- ! lief be not afforded, a perilous extravasation ffoirows. The danger, however, of such a reten- tion of urine depends very much upon the ex- tent and severity of the inflammation. How- ever, this statement will not apply to the chronic scirrhous enlargement of the prostate, because, as will be presently explained, in this affection some of the urine begins to dribble away after the bladder has become distended in a certain degree. In cases of phlegmonous inflammation of the prostate gland, antiphlogistic treatment is in- dicated; especially venesection, leeches to the perinseum and near the anus, the warm bath, emollient clysters, poultices, and fomentations, and a low regimen. However, as Desault ad- mits, the efficacy of these means is often too slow, and the symptoms too urgent, to allow the surgeon to wait for the urine to flow of itself. Frequently, also, the distention has so weakened the bladder, that this organ cannot expel its con- tents; in which event, the catheter must be used, though the diminished diameter and altered course of the prostatic portion of the urethra sometimes renders its introduction difficult, and always very painful. The practical observations, respecting the best kind of catheters, and themode of introducing them in cases of swelled prostate gland, will be more conveniently introduced when the chronic enlargement of this part is consi- dered. (See also Catheter and Urine, Reten- tion of.) In every instance of retention of urine from acute inflammation about the neck of the bladder, whether the case be an abscess forming near the anus, or a phlegmonous in- flammation of the prostate gland, or other adja- cent part, it has always appeared to me, that antiphlogistic and anodyne remedies should first be fairly tried, and the catheter, which always increases the pain and irritation, only used where such means do not afford relief with sufficient expedition. When a catheter has been introduced, ought it to be left in the bladder, or withdrawn, after the discharge of the urine ? Its presence no doubt will increase the irritation about the neck of the bladder; but, on the other hand, if it be taken out, the surgeon may not be able to intro- duce it again. No general precept, says Desault, can be laid down on this point. The course, which the practitioner will pursue, must depend upon the difficulty he has experienced in getting the instrument into the bladder, and upon the confidence which he may have in his own skill, and which must be founded upon constant success in analogous instances. According to Desault, when an abscess follows inflammation of the prostate, the body of the gland itself does not suppurate, but only the surrounding parts, and the cellular substance, which connects its lobes together. This, at least, was what was observed in examining seve- ral dead subjects, who were publicly opened in the amphitheatre of the Hotel-Dieu. When the symptoms of inflammation have lasted a week, and all this time have continued to increase; when, after this period, they have abated a little, and then become violent again ; and when the febrile symptoms grow worse in the evening, and have been preceded by sliiver- ings; there is reason to suspect the formation of matter. It-cannot be known, whether the pus is collected in one particular place, or difi'used. When the matter is external to the gland, the case is less serious, than when it occupies the cellular substance connecting the lobes. Ac- cording to Desault, the latter form of the dis- ease seldom gets well. There are no peculiar symptoms which denote it; the matter does not readily make its way outward; and the state of things is not clear enough to admit of an incision being made. Besides, Desault doubted whether an incision could be of much use, since it would probably only discharge the matter in its vicinity. Things are different when the pus is collected in one place, and is more superficial. If situated between the gland and neck of the bladder, De- sault says, it will often spontaneously burst into this viscus, or it may be let out witli the point of the catheter. It will then either be discharged through the instrument, or come away with the urine. However, according to Mr. Wilson, abscesses of the prostate gland generally burst into the urethra behind the caput gallinaginis, but sometimes before it; and he has seen more than one instance, in which they have burst in the perinseum. {On the Mule Urinary and Ge- nital Organs, p, 3l29.) Should the abscess lie near the rectum and perinccum, and admit of being distinctly felt, Desault conceived, that a free opening would expedite the cure. In all these cases, the use of the catheter is requisite, in order to let out the urine, and, as the instrument must be left in the passage some time, Desault preferred one made of'elastic gum. As Mr. Wilson has remarked, soothing means