FRACTURES. 460 The powers, muling continual extension, should act according to the direction oj the uxis of the broken bone. I he continual extension should he practised in ns slow, gradual, and insensible a manner ns possible. 1 lie muscles easily yield to a force, which stretches them, when such force acts slowly, and is very gradually increased, according to the shortness of the limb, and the power of the muscles producing the displacement. But, if one were all on a sudden to begin with making violent extension, the rough forced elongation of the muscles would excite such a spasmodic action of them, as would frustrate every attempt to restore the natural length of the limb. And, if in order to fulfil this purpose, the extending force were increased in a ratio to the resistance of the muscles, there would be danger of lacera- ting these organs, because their fibres would not have time enough to yield. Lastly i the parts, upon which the extending and counter-extending force acts, should be de- fended ; and the compression, made by the tapes, or other pieces of the bondage and apparatus, ought to be equalised. These indications may be fulfilled by covering the parts, on which the tapes and bandages press, with tow or wool-pads; and by filling up all the depressions of the limb with the same soft sub- stances, so as to give it a circular form. The bandages will then not hurt the most projecting parts, on which they would make a strong and injurious degree of pressure, if the depressions were not artificially filled up. By observing these rules, says Boyer, con- tinual extension may always be borne, even by the most delicate and irritable patients : and the important advantage will be obtained of curing the fracture, with the proper length of the limb preserved. (Trade des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 56, 59.) 8. Meansfor preventing andremoving the unfavour- able Siimptoms liable to arise from Fructures. After having reduced the fracture; applied a suitable apparatus for maintaining the reduction ; and put the part in an advantageous position ; the practitioner is to attend to the third indication in the treatment, viz. the prevention and removal of any unfavourable symptoms. With the exception of a few simple fractures of the upper extremity, it is proper in all cases to allow for the first few days only very low diet, broths, tea, &c. When the patient is young, and strong, and the swelling and inflammation are likely to be considerable, venesection should be practised. In other circumstances, it may in general he dispensed with, because it is well known, that for the quick formation of the callus, by which the fracture is to be united, strength and a vigorous circulation are highly favourable. The patient may be permitted to drink as often, and as much as he likes, of any cooling acid beverage. A very low diet is only to be continued the first few days, unless great inflammation arise ; for, experience proves, that the method, when too much prolonged, has bad effects, and tends, on the same principle as bleed- ing, to ictard the union of the fracture. Costiveness is to be averted by the use of clysters, and mild aperient medicines. It must be confessed, that, in fractures of the lower ex- tremity, the disturbance of the limb caused by the patient's being obliged to move himself, after taking a purgative, is seriously objectionable; but, perhaps, in all, and certainly in some habits, a neglect to open the bowels soon after the accident, would have still more pernicious consequences. In order, however, to lessen the disturbance, a bed pan should be carefully introduced under the patient. Here also, I feel it my duty to re- commend to the notice of the profession a very complete fracture-bed invented by mv friend, Mr. Earle. One great convenience of this bed, the cost of which is moderate, is to enable the patient to void his feces, without the slightest change of position, or disturbance; an object, effected by the simple contrivance of a little kind of trap, opening under the bed, out of which a small portion of the mattress admits of being withdrawn, and a tin receptacle is placed for the reception of what is voided from the bowels and bladder. Some other advantages of this ap- paratus will be hereafter briefly mentioned. With respect to external applications, we should carefully avoid using all such plasters and oint- ments as irritate the skin, or create a disagree- able itching; for they sometimes bring on erysi- pelas. The emplastrum saponis in common use is the best for all simple fractures, and it is the best, rather because it does no harm, than be- cause it does any essential good. It is, generally speaking, a good plan for the first few days to wet the bandages with cold water; for in this way, the tendency to inflammation and swelling may be considerably lessened. The surgeon, however, should recollect, that the bandage shrinks when wet, and may become so tight as to do harm, if not attended to. Solutions of the acetate of lead, and other salts, make bandages stiff and hard; and as they are perhaps not more efficacious than cold water alone, the latter is sometimes preferred in cases of fracture. When a fracture is well set, the position of the part right, and the bandage and splints neither too tight, nor too slack, the less the broken bone is moved, and the less the apparatus and dress- ings are disturbed, the better. Sometimes, how- ever, the practitioner is obliged to take oft the splints, and undo the bandage, in order to as- certain, that the ends of the fracture lie in even contact. Were he to leave the splints on the part ten days, or a fortnight, without ever being sure of this important point, he might find, when too late for alteration, that the fracture was in a state of displacement, and the limb seriously de- formed. Hence, a strong reason for employing the eighteen-tailed bandage, which admits of being opened, without disturbing the limb, or even with- out lifting it from the surface, upon which it has been deposited. In fractures of the lower extremities, par- ticularly of the legs, it sometimes happens, the first two or three nights after the reduction, that the limb is affected with convulsive spasms and cramps, which make the patient start out ot his sleep, and displace the ends of the bone, which must be again reduced. • When the callus has acquired some firmness, the patient should still keep the part or lim*