ff 5 AMAUROSIS. I) 2 While the disease is in its first stage, the prognosis is always very favourable, indeed some- times the blindness now goes off again, without anv interference from art. This may happen when it lias not yet attained a considerable de- cree; when the patient avo'ds every thing condu- cive to the disease ; when he accidentally places himself under such circumstances, as promote the recovery; and when he is not very plethoric ; there is no determination of blood to his head and eves; he has not a phlogistic diathesis ; he is not disposed to obstinate constipations; and the amau- rotic weakness of sight has not occurred in the advanced stage of pregnancy. However, Beer is convinced, from repeated observation, that this amaurosis, even though it be not quite in its second stage, and it be skilfully treated, may last a long while, when produced by belladonna, stramonium, and the poison of lead. When once the disorder reaches its second stage, and the patient is completely blind, the prognosis becomes very serious, though some- what less so if a glimmering of light can be dis- cerned. But, if all sense of light be lo t when the surgeon is first consulted, no promises must be made; or, at most, only a remote and distant hope of the re-establishment of sight must be allowed, notwithstanding all other circumstances may be favourable to the cure. When, however, in a completely amaurotic eye of this kind, any thing wrong is visible in the transparent parts of the organ, or there is a strong tendency to a ge- neral varicose affection of its blood-vessels, the complication is always very unpromising, as sooner or later violent pains supervene, and the blindness is irremediable. When in the first stage of this complaint re- course is at once bad to fluid stimulant remedies, useful as they are in the second, it is lucky if the patient do not completely lose his sight. On the contrary, when no complications exist, and the impairment of vision is altogether the effect of the above mentioned causes, a gentle antiphlo- gistic treatment will preserve him from such a misfortune. Taking away a few ounces of blood by venesection, when plethora exists; the appli- cation of leeches behind the ears, when after bleeding, a determination of blood to the head and eyes still continues in full habits, or there is any tendency to inflammation. The same topical bleeding, without venesection, and lukewarm pe- diluvia, containing salt, or mustard, are proper, when nogeneral plethora exists; and merely a de- termination of blond to the head and eyes and some acceleration of the circulation prevail. In- ternally, diluted white wine vinegar, lemon juice, or the liquor ammonite acet. have excellent ef- fects ; and, externally, poultices composed of bread crum and vinegar, or fomentations with oxycrat, arc the means which Beer has found most successful in the first stage of this form of amaurosis. As in the first stage, a moderate antiphlogistic general or local treatment h the only one, which can be adopted, and which in urgent cases may jet save the patient from blindness, so, in the second stage, the internal and external employ- ment of fluid stimulants is of great service: for example, naphtha combined with camphor inward- J » miments to the cj-c-brow, and the vapours * lcr to l^e cJ'c. The amaurosis, whieli is produced altogether by the poison of lead, and is complicated with lead-colic and ileus, will require, in addition to the foregoing means, such reme- dies as arc known to be of service in these latter disorders. {Beer, Ltltre von den An gen hr. B. 2, p. 499—503.) 2. Of the symptomatic amaurosis in individuals affected with lujsicria, hypochondriasis, epilepsy, and convulsions. Thisamaurosisis rarely permanent, and usually subsides as soon as the spasmodic, epileptic, or convulsive attack is over. However, the com- plaint may begin at two periods, viz. either during such an attack, or (what is more un- common) afterwards, and it never loses itssymp- tomsiic character. The pupil always remains perfectly clear, and of a shining blackness, even when the disease has induced entire blindness; but, a slight dull pain in the forehead, especially about the ejre-brow, constantly preceding and ac- companying the blindness, genera I hr lasts a good while after the amaurosis has completely subsided. Besides the foregoing general symptoms, the following characteristic appearances present them- selves in hysterical and hypochondriacal patients, who suffer frequent attacks of violent spasm. The pupil is much dilated, and the iris, which is immoveable, seems evidently to project in a con- vexity forwards, when the eye is inspected side- wise ; consequently, the anterior chamber is lessened. The eye itself does not move freely in its socket, the patient experiencing an annojdng, and sometimes a truly painful sensation, as if the eye-ball were forcibly compressed; {Ophthalmo- dynia.) Every attempt, which the patient him- self makes to move the eye, or the surgeon to push it out of the position, which it has assumed, is unavailing, and excessively painful. The eye- lids are either painfully shut, or incapable of being shut at all; the eye-sight is very weak, but seldom quite impeded; and, at the termination of each attack, it returns, though every paroxysm leaves it more and more debilitated, until at length, the spasmodic attacks of blindness fre- quently occurring, and lasting a long while, it is entirely lost. T it, when the disorder has acquired its utmost degree, the eye always still retains the power of discerning the light, and it seldom hap- pens, that vision is abolished by the first or se- cond attack. It is different, with respect to the characteristic phenomena of this amauroJs, in hysterical or hypochondriacal patients, especially when often affected with spasms, before, during, or after which, the impairment of sight originates; for, though the pupil may continue quite clear, it cannot escape the notice of an attentive observer, that, together with a pupil of diminished diameter, there exists a peculiar motion of the iris, a con- stant fluttering of it between expansion and con- traction, technically called hippus papilla. This convulsive state of the iris is mostlj' accompanied with a similar affection of the ejre-lids, namely, with an involuntary blinking, nicti/utio, and not unfrequentlv with an involuntarjr pendulum-like rolling of the eye-ball, nisiagmir. In these patients, the amaurotic injury of sight hardly ever proceeds directly to complete blindness, but more commonly remains as a weakness of vision, cha- racterized during the rest of life by ceaseless oscillations of the eve-ball, aversion to light, and