HAN r even opening the tumor, is always requisite, i more simple method will sometimes succeed. ■i a particular case, which this gentleman has •lated, a sinuosity, which divided the swelling ;to a right and left portion, made him suspect mt it consisted of two sacs, in contact with each i.her. On each side, in front, and in the same ne, there was a point, which was the orifice of le salivary duct, somewhat dilated, and blocked p with a viscid matter. Having very easily assed a small probe into the orifices, a matter, milar to white of egg, made its escape. A .nail leaden probe was passed into each opening, nd, two days afterwards, the sacs were emptied gain, and two pieces of lead, somewhat larger, introduced. The man was advised to take out le pieces of lead every morning, empty the welling, and then replace them. In a fortnight le openings, having been kept continually di- lted, had no tendency to close ; the saliva did ot accumulate, and the ranuloe never appeared ^ain, In certain cases, the above means are quite mdequate, and the tumor must be totally ex- irpated. Boinet has related, to the French Veademv, a case in which the swelling not only lied the whole mouth, but one half of the tu- nor projected out, and a cure could only be ccomplished in the latter manner. The two ipper incisor teeth, on the left side, were lodged a a depression observable there; and the canine ooth, of the same side, forced outward by the nass of the disease, had pierced the lip near its ommissure, A fluid, resembling mucus, flowed rom a nhrrow aperture at the lower part of the welling. The longue could not be seen, so nuch was it pushed backward, and, for some ime, the patient had only subsisted on liquid bod, which he was first obliged to convey to the4 tack of the throat with some mechanical con- rivance. The four incisor teeth, two canine, and first grinders of the lower jaw, had been pushed out of their sockets, by the pressure of the swell- ing. The patient’s aspect was alarming, and he was threatened with suffocation. Extirpation was deemed necessary, and it was performed, with all the caution which the situation of the tumor demanded. The large cavity thus occa- sioned was filled with lint. The lower jaw being diseased, Boinet scraped some of its surface oft’, and covered the places with lint, either dry, or dipped in spirit of wine. Some exfoliations fol- lowed, and the fungous granulations which grew were repressed with proper applications. In three months, the parts were healed in so regu- lar a manner, that the motion of the tongue was not in the least obstructed, and no change con- tinued, except the alteration of the voice, occa- sioned by the loss of teeth. This case is very interesting and proves how much may be hoped, for in difficult cases, from prudent and judicious measures. (See Encyclopedic Mtlhoiliqitc, Art. Grenouillcttc. Mem dc l'Acad, dc Chirurgic, T. 3, Sabatier, Medccinc Operatoire, T. 2, V' S[c. Ed. 2. Calliscn, Systerna Chirur- Ar'rr Bodicrnee, Vol. p. 108, &c. IlafniiE, 1 BOO. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. V. I. p. '107, dc. 8ro. Paris, ISO!). Richter, Anfaugsgr. dcr Wundarzn. II. 4, Kap. I, Gottingen, 1800. ./. ,/. Stahl, cl J. P. E. dc Schocnerben REC 059 de Ranulfi, sub lingua, special* cum case, Er- ford. 1734.) RECLINATION. A term, much employed abroad, to denote the operation of turning a ca- taract, so as to change the position of its ante- rior and posterior surfaces. (See Cataract.) RECTUM. Many cases, in which this bowel is more or less concerned, are treated of elsewhere in this Dictionary, and therefore it will only be necessary for me here to refer to them, and then notice some diseases of the part, which are not considered in other articles. For an account of piles, hemorrhoidal excrescence, and other tumors of the rectum, sec Hemorrhoids ; and for that of prolapsus ani, fistula in ano, and imperforate anus, see Anus. Under the head of Alvine Concretions, I have noticed the danger- ous obstruction of this bowel by masses of indu- rated matter. In the article Lithotomy, the mode of cutting through the rectum into the bladder, for the purpose of extracting a calculus from the latter organ, is explained; and, if the reader refer to Bladder, he will there find a de- scription of the method of tapping it from the rectum. Scirrhus, or stricture of the rectum, some- times called the scirrho-contracied rectum, and sometimes cancer, especially when the case is inveterate and in a state of ulceration, is a dis- ease which has received much elucidation from the writings of Desault, Sir Everard Home, Dr. Sherwin, and Mr Copeland. In the various descriptions given of the complaint by these, and other writers, one great point of difference is remarkable, viz. that some of them represent the case as always of an incurable nature, while others consider it as admitting of relief, at least when it has not made considerable progress, and the parts are free from ulceration. According to Desault, scirrhus of the rectum is not uncom- mon at an.advanced period of life, and the disease is said to afflict women more frequently than men, as from a table kept at the Hotel Dieu, it appeared that ten cases out of eleven occurred in females. If it were not for the fact, that Desault sometimes effected a cure of the disease in its early stage, I should venture to conclude, that his observations apply entirely to the true scir- rhus, or cancer of the rectum, which I believe rarely, or never, occurs in young patients, but, as Desault states, is not very unfrequent in el- derly persons. My friend, Mr Copeland, in his practical remarks, does not coniine himself to really scirrhous and cancerous affections, but comprehends strictures of the rectum from a variety of causes; and this accounts for his state- ment, that the disease “ attacks people of almost all ages; but is most common about the middle age.” However, he agrees with Desault, that women are more frequently affected than men. Fie admits, that it is sometimes cancerous, though not so often as is generally imagined, the mere induration not being an unequivocal proof of it. When the disease is really cancer, it is usually attended with more severe pain, darting through the pelvis to the bladder and the groin. The countenance is of a sallow leaden cast. (Copeland on the principal Diseases of the Rectum and Anus, p. 15—17.) Sometimes the disease extends over a consider- /