AMPUTATION- S8 cision a little further upwards without delay. He confesses that the plan is attended with some lit- tle trouble in securing the interosseous arteries, which are aptAo retract considerably, but, such has been the suceess of his practice, that out of twenty cases, seventeen got well, and most of them very soon, without the least exfoliation; and the other three died of typhus. ( Practisclie rfnsichttai her bedtuteniisten Chir. Op. lies Heft. p. 47.) In the same work, this experienced surgeon, convinced how much more quickly and certainly the wound heals after amputations with two Haps, than those with one, has sug- gested a plan of amputating below the knee, so as to form two lateral (laps. I regret that my limits prevent me front entering into a descrip- tion of it. I have already specified the principal reasons, which have established the common custom of amputating the leg, about four inches below the patella, and, it the disease or injury will not ad- mit of the operation being done thus low, of re- moving the limb above the knee joint. In the Egyptian campaign, however, Baron Larrey per- formed two amputations very near the knee joint, almost on a level with the head of the ltbula, which he judged proper to extirpate. The suc- cessful result of these operations dispelled the fear, which this experienced surgeon previously- entertained about amputating in the thick part of the upper head of the tibia; for, no caries of this spongy portion of the bone, no bad effects on the knee-joint, and no anchylosis of the stump ensued; and, with the difference of a few days, the wound healed as readily, as that made in the common place of election, viz. three or four finger-breadths below the tuberosity of the tibia. Since the above mentioned campaign, Larrey has adopted this practice in many cases, where it was impos- sible to have operated at the usual place, and he assures us, the success fully equalled what attends operations done at the ordinary distance from the knee. In 1806, another French military surgeon, who had tried this method himself, pub- lished a dissertation, in which he commended operating, where circumstances required it, much higher than the point allowed by generally re- ceived rules. Larrey differs, however, from Garrigues, in forbidding amputation higher than the level of the tuberosity of the tibia, the thick portion of which may be sawn, but not above the insertion of the tendon of the patella. A trans- verse line, drawn from this point, usually passes below the articulation of the fibula, and over the lower portion of the uppermost part of the eon- dvles of the tibia : but, as the relative positions of the heads of the two bones to each other differ somewhat in different individuals, Larrey makes the tuberosity of the tibia the point, above which the bone should never be sawn. By cutting higher, the ligament of the patella is separated from its insertion : the bursa mucosa, situated underneath it, is wounded; and the ligaments at the sides of the joint are injured; whence arise retraction of the patella, effusion of the synovia, and such dis- ease of the knee joint, as may render another am- putation indispensable. By making the division on a level with the tuberosity of the tibia, tfie attachment of the ligament of the patella is pre- served, as well as that of the flexor tendons of •he leg, which are requisite for the motion of the stump. The bursa mucosa is left untouched; and the head of the bone is sawn low enough to avoid creating a risk of caries. But, says Larrey, if this mode of amputating below the knee be compared with amputation of the thigh, as re- commended by authors for the cases in which the new method is proposed, the advantages of the latter are considerable. In the first place, life is less endangered, because a smaller portion of the body is removed. The operation is as easy in one situation as the other. The stumps heal with equal facility. Larrey has never seen the spongy part of the tibia become carious, nor per- ceptibly exfoliate. When the remaining portion of the fibula is very short, -as usually happens, it ought to be taken away, as it is an useless body, inconvenient for the employment of a wooden leg. Larrey directs as much skin as possible to be preserved, and making a perpendicular incision through that part of it, which covers the tibia, in order to hinder the bone from making its way through it by ulceration. With a stump, thus formed, comprising the knee and one or two finger breadths of the leg, the patient has a firm point of support, on which he can securely walk without a stick. The stump admits also of an artificial leg of the natural shape being worn, the knee being always bent, provided the length of the stump do not -exceed the dia- meter of the calf of the artificial limb. (Mem. dc Chir. milituire, T. 8, p. 386—394.) From a pas- sage, quoted from Mr. Bromfield, [Chir. Ohs. <i- Cases, vol. 1. p. 1 85.) by Mr. Guthrie, it would seem, that the first of these gentlemen advised amputating as near to the knee as could be done without risk of cutting the ligament of the pa- tella, so that the stump might not extend beyond the wooden leg. On the whole, Mr. Guthrie’s own observations are very favourable to this prac- tice; but he candidly acknowledges his belief, that “ it would not succeed when indiscriminately done in the hospitals of large cities,’’ though it may frequently be practised in the army with ad- vantage, provided the surgeon saw through the tibia below its tuberosity. ( On Gunshot JVnunds, p. 223, uni 227.) Upori looking over the details of the cases recorded by Larrey in confirmation of the above statement, I was struck with one important fact, which does not justify a part of his commendations; viz. most of the stumps were above four months in healing; and that which healed most quickly was not well before the sixty-eighth day. {See Mem. he Chir. Mil. T. 3, p. 57, 397, 398, df-c«) Hence, unless it be supposed, that the wounds produced by amputa- tion below the knee in the ordinary manner, are generally thus long in healing, as treated by the French surgeons, the inference is rather un- favourable to the method so highly commended by Larrey, though I am far from wishing to assert that, even if the stumps cannot usually be healed in less time, more than afull compensation for this disadvantage is not obtained by some of the benefits above enumerated. However, in order to be able to pronounce any positive judgment on the merits of this mode of operating, it would be requisite not only to see two or three success- ful cases just after their cure, but to examine the state of a tolerable number of stumps, sometime after they had been subjected to the pressure of an artificial leg.