8;>4 NITRIC AND NITROUS ACIDS. cury is represented as the best antisyphilitic medicine. Afterwards Professor WUrzer was induced to try the nitrous acid in a case, that had resisted mercury for six months, the patient having got rid of some chancres and a sore throat, but being left with violent nocturnal pains, blotches and sores all over his body, and in a very reduced condition, without the least appetite. Here, in 27 days the acid, together with sarsaparilla and the warm bath, not only removed all the com- plaints, but actually restored the patient’s origi- nal strength, and healthy appearance. In a short note annexed to this case, Hufeland gives it as his opinion, derived from experience, that the nitrous acid is effectual in obviating the se- quelae and anomalous diseases induced by lues venerea, but that it does not permanently cure the latter affection itself. (Etwas uber die Keil- kraft der Salpetcrsaure in venerischen Krank- heiten, Hufel, Journ. d. Prakt. Hcilk. 8 Bd. 4 St. p. 139—113.) These vague and endless contradictions in- duced Schmidt, an eminent professor at Vienna, to make a series of experiments with the nitric acid, for the purpose of ascertaining its power in cases of syphilis. (See Beobacht, der Kaiserl. Kortigl. Med. Chir. Josephs Akademie zu Wien. 1 Bd. Wien. 1807, p. 147—189.) Under his directions, the acid was given in the winter of 1799 to five soldiers, affected with the venereal disease in various degrees and forms. In every one of these cases, the medicine was found efficacious ; but the degree of efficacy was remarked to vary considerably according to the nature of the constitution, and the kind of local complaints. Thus, in robust patients, moderate doses of the acid soon produced benefit; while, in weak persons, disposed to scurvy or scrofula, a larger quantity of the medicine, and more time were requisite. This assertion we see is exactly the reverse of what appeared to happen in the cases treated by Mr. Cruikshank. However, Professor Schmidt entertains strong doubts, whether the nitric acid is adequate to the cure of all the forms of syphilis, and he thinks, that neither this nor any similar medicines will ever supersede the necessity for mercury. Ontyd, a Dutch practitioner, approves of the use of the nitric acid, with some limitation : while he admits its efficacy in removing local symptoms, he is strongly against its employment in cases of confirmed lues, as they used formerly to be termed. The latter assertion, I conceive, is exactly contrary to the results of modern ex- perience, most of these protracted bad cases being those, which are particularly benefited by this acid. (ATicuwe scheidckundigc Bill, ic Amsterdam; by Doll, 6dc St. 1799, p. 166.) The tracts of Boetticher, (Bcmerk. liber Mcdi- cinal-verfass. Ilospit, u. Curartcn. 'lies Ilrfr. Kbnigsb. 1800, 11), of Ritter (Erfahr iibr.r die inncrl u. ausscrl. Anwendung d. Salpctcrs. Hufel. Journ. 10 B. 3 St.p. 191 — 197), and of Frankenfeld (Hufeland's Journ. der Prakt. Hcilk. 22 Bd. 4 St. p. 96—98) need only be specified here, as decidedly unfavourable to the character of the nitrous acid, as a remedy for syphilis. The following German practitioners are to be classed with the moderate approvers of the medi- cine, though, as Holst observes, (Dc Aeid4 Nitric Usu Medico, p. 88; Christianas, 1816',} they do not appear to have made any new ex- periments of their own with it, viz. Munehmeyew t (Comm, de Vinbus Oxygenii in procreandis e) sanandis Morbis; Goett. 1801, p. 54); Bur dach, (Hdb. d. ncucst Entdcck. in d. Heilmit<4 tcllehre ; Lcipz. 1806, p. 11, 12,); Aronssowti (Vollst. Abhdl. alter venerischen Kranklm, Berl. 1808, p. 21!); Horn (Hdb. der Prakt,Ip Arzneymittellchre, 2te. Aujl. Berl. 1805, /».|c 95); Consbruch (Taschb. d. Arzncymiltellehrctl; 2te. Anjl. Leipz. 1810, p. 283); Toepelmannj, (Ncuere Erfahr. uber zweekem. Behdl. venait risch. Schleim ausjliisse, §c. Leipz. 1809H p. 151); and Wollkopfs (Pharmac. cxtempi \ Leipz. 1811, p. 92.) Another German author, who has entered int«| i the present inquiry, is F. A. Walch, whos«|’. statements are very unfavourable to the use o* the nitrous acid, as he absolutely denies, that illc ever accomplishes a lasting cure. (Ausfuhri\ l Darstcll. d. Urspr. fyc. d. Venerisch, Kranklm t Jena, 1811, p. 197, 198.) In a periodical work, mention is made of on«* } case, which, after resisting a long course of mem ( cury, and also the nitric acid, was ultimately cured by restricting the patient for a few weeks: to a very reduced diet. (Hufel. Journ. d. Prulcit • Heill;. 34 Bd, 2 St. p. 56.) For much of the foregoing historical accounttI > I am indebted to Holst's Diss. deAcidi ATi/ridH Usu Medico, 8ro. Christ. 1816; in which a* explanation of the results of further trials o { the medicine in Denmark and Sweden may bt| £ perused. From these countries, the reports ari 1 mostly less favourable to the reputation of tha medicine, than the accounts already delivered. According to Holst the following are tha chief circumstances, under which the employmera > of nitrous, or nitric acid is generally sanctioned. 1. Where the disease is complicated will scurvy. 2. Where it is attended with scrofulous era largement of the glands, and other strumot* t symptoms. I may remark, however, that thes j complaints are often as undefinable, as some q 1 the forms of syphilis, and therefore the rule 3 frequently difficult of application. S. Where the disease is accompanied wit, considerable debility, either brought on by men’: I cury, or febrile indisposition. 4. Where from idiosyncrasy, mercury cannc t be safely exhibited. Experience fully proves f. that there are some patients, more especially fit i males, in whom a few grains of mercury take* inwardly, or mercurial frictions on the most 13 I mited scale, bring on vomiting, rheumatic pain* nervous febrile symptoms, colic, spasms, seven headach, and a rapid immoderate salivation. 5. Where pregnant women are the subjects o the disease, several practitioners forbid the use q mercury, during the latter months of pregnancy (Bangii, Pra.v. Med. Hafn. 1789, p. n7m Swcdiaur ; Aronsonn Vollst. Abhdl. allcr Veit Krkht. Berlin, 1811, p- 211.) Holst observe! that the reason of this advice is not staten though no doubt it must proceed from an an prehension of mercury exciting a miscarriage. Mr. Pearson’s mode of exhibiting the nitron acid has been already mentioned. Some practi