932 POLYPUS. be highly perilous. Sometimes the polypus is, at the same time, so large, mid the nostril so completely occupied and distended, that it is im- possible to apply a ligature. Such is the case, to which alone the cautery promises assistance. (Richter.) In employing the cautery, (says the latter author,) the object is not to effect, by its direct agency, a gradual destruction of the polypus; but to excite such an inflammation, and suppura- tion, of the '.vliole of it, as shall lend to this event. To fulfil this purpose, a common trocar, three inches long, may be used. The cannula ought to be two inches shorter than the trocar, whereby the latter may protrude from it so far; and it should be constructed with a handle. The cannula should be made wider than it is in com- mon, so as to allow the trocar to be introduced, and withdrawn with facility. It is to be wrapt round with a piece of wet linen, and applied to the po- lypus. The red-hot trocar is then to be pushed into the tumor, as far as the cannula will allow it, which is, of course, two inches. When the patient entertains a dread of the actual cautery, Richter sanctions the introduc- tion of a tent of the emplastrum cantharidum, or a tent smeared with butter of antimony, into the puncture of the unhealed trocar, and as soon as suppuration has taken place, emollient and deter- gent lotions are to be injected. (Richter’s An- fangsgr.) In England, the actual and poten- tial cauteries are never used for the destruction of nasal polypi. Excision. In the treatment of the polypus, the use of cutting instruments has always been reprobated, because they usually occasion a pro- fuse hemorrhage, and can hardly ever be passed, without mischief, to a sufficient depth into the nose to divide the root of the tumor. Yet, there are instances, in which their use might be productive of advantage. The anterior part of the pqlypus, situated in the nostril, is sometimes so thick and hard, that it is utterly impracticable to introduce the forceps for the performance of extraction, or the cannula for the appplication of the ligature. In such a case, it might be a ju- dicious step to cut off the front of the polypus, with a sharp instrument, of a suitable shape, in order to make room for the use of the ligature, or forceps. The polypus is sometimes of a liga- mentous structure, and neither admits of being tied nor extracted. There is no means of re- moving such a polypus, except the knife, by which it is to be cut away piecemeal. Mr. Wliately after failing in several attempts to extract, and tie, a considerable polypus of the nose, succeeded in cutting it out. He used “ a narrow, straight bistoury, with a probe-point, having a sheath fixed upon its edge, by a screw put into a hole in the handle. An eye was made at its point, to receive one end of a thread in- tended to be passed round the polypus, for the purpose of directing the knife to the extremity of the tumor. There was also a contrivance by which the knife could be unsheathed at its ex- tremity, the length of three quarters of an inch. This was done by means of the screw, which might be fixed in another hole, by drawing back the sheath. By exposing such a length of edge only, the interior parts of the nose were de- fended from the dancer of being wounded."’ Whoever wishes a particular account of the manner of using the instrument, must consult Mr. Whalely’s Cases of two extraordinary Ro- hjpi, 8(C. 1 «(>’>. In the polypus, which arises from a relaxation of the Schneiderian membrane, external astrin- gent applications may be first tried; such as ice-cold water, solutions of acetiteof lead, alum, muriate of ammonia, &c. These remedies (says Richter) commonly lessen it, and frequently, when it is not very large, accomplish its entire removal. If this should not happen, there is no reason against putting a ligature round it. Here, also, we may venture to employ a cutting in- strument, if itTe in our power to do so ; which, as far as my experience goes, will very rarely Le the case. But the practice of extraction is here prohibited. When the Schneiderian membrane is preter- naturaily swollen all over the nostril, which is quite obstructed, the pervious state of the cavity is to be restored by the'introduetion of eat-gut, or bougies. A thin piece is at first passed into the nose, and afterwards a larger and larger one gradually, until the passage for the air is per- fectly re-established. But. usually, this relief is only of short duration, as the nostril very soon closes again. Hence, such patients are advised to make constant use of flexible tubes passed into the nose; or, when this is too troublesome, to fill the nose regularly at bed-time, with cat-gut, and take it out again in the morning. (See Richter’s Anfangsgr. Is. i.) POLYPI OF THE UTERUS. Polypi of the uterus are of three kinds, in re- spect to situation : they grow either from the fundus, the inside of the cervix, or the lower edge of the os uteri. The first case is the most frequent; the last, the most uncommon. Po- lypi of the uterus are always shaped like a pear, and have a thin pedicle. hey are almost in- variably of that species, which is denominated fleshy, hardly ever being scirrhous, cancerous, or ulcerated. A polypus of the first kind, growing from the fundus uteri, is very difficult to detect in its in- cipient state. While small, it produces not the smallest perceptible change in the organs of ge- neration. As it enlarges, it distends the uterus, and often excites a suspicion of pregnancy, which, however, a more attentive examination soon dispels. The swelling of the abdomen dees not take place in the degree and space of time, which it does in pregnancy; the menstrual dis- charge continues to flow; the breasts do not become full; and, in the progress of the case, no motion is to be felt. While the polypus lies in the uterus, its growth is slow. At this early period, it frequently occasions profuse bleeding- Women, afflicted with the disease, are seldom pregnant, and when they are so, parturition commonly happens prematurely. However, they sometimes hold out till the end of the regu- lar time, and experience an easy and safe de- livery. As the polypus increases, it expands the os uteri, and, at length, protrudes into the vagina- This lakes place either suddenly, from an acci- dental concussion of the body ; or slowly am