1039 TONSILS. Vinca vellius mentions two women, who had siderabk enlargements of their tongues. One lose patients, who was young, had been rub- with mercurial ointment even on her head; the other, who was about fifty years old, her tongue attacked with the ravages of isnufil-pox. The excessive swelling of the ue, in both these instances, terminated in lution. hen the urgency is such, that an immediate nation of the swelling becomes necessary the relief of the symptoms, the plan of ing one or two deep incisions along the ue is strongly recommended. See the cases ted by De la Malle, in the 5th vol. 4to. of de VAcad. Chirurgie, and some others, .ed by Louis in the paper above cited. man, recovering from a bad fever, was sud- v attacked with a pain in his tongue, followed swelling equally large and rapid in its for- on. In less than five hours, the part became •e as large as it is in its natural state, and, lis space of time, De la Malle, who had been afited, had bled the patient successively in arm, neck, and foot. The man felt very e pain; his skin was excessively hot; his was swelled; his pulse was hard and con- ed ; and his look wild. He could hardly the; the tongue filled all the cavity of the th, and protruded out between the lips. In very' urgent case, the mouth was ffeept a : more open than the swelling of the tongue ally' caused it to be, and three parallel inci- ; were made along this organ, one along its 1 tie, and the other two between the one in centre and the edges of the part affected, cuts extended through two-thirds of the :rnatural swelling, and had all the good ef- which could possibly be desired. There a great deal of hemorrhage, and the en- ;ment of the tongue subsided so much, that, our after the operation, the patient was able teak. The next day', the incisions had the iratice of being only superficial scarifications, the tongue was in its natural state. In t, the incisions healed in a few days, with ise of a simple gargle. »e la Malle quotes several other cases, all of h tend to show the success, which he met from this practice in other similar cases. :onfirms his own sentiments, by quoting the nony of some authors, antecedent to him, have recommended the method; and in cular, he cites a case, in which Job a Meck- i adopted this practice, in a case, where the ue, together with the tonsils and palate, be- spontaneously affected with a sudden and erous degree of swelling. •orn the preceding observations, it may be uded, that making incisions in the tongue I have saved numerous patients, who have suffocated, in consequence of enormous en- ments of this organ. In the small-pox, the ue sometimes becomes immensely swelled ; it is more than probable, that, in many aces, the employment of the above method i have afforded great relief to patients, n the disease has been known to have en- ' bereaved of the power of swallowing. It •urious fact, that after the loss of very con- fide portions, or, even what may be called, the whole tongue, patients often recover the power of speech, mastication, and deglutition. [Louis in Mem. de l’Acad, de Chir. T. 5 ; also, J. Rowland, Aglossos tomographic, ou Descrip- tion d'une Boiiche sans langue, laqitclle parlc, etfait naturellement toutes ses autres functions. V2mo. Saumur, 1G30. Louis, sur les Maladies dc'la Langue, Memoires de l'Acad, de Chir. T. 5; also the memoir of Dc la Malle in the same volume. Encyclopedic Methodique, Partie Chir. art. Langue. Sir Evcrard Home’s Pract. Ohs. on Cancer, 8vo. Loud. 1805. Langenhcck, Ncuc Bibl. B. 2, p. 487, h'vo. Hanover, 1S20.) TONSILS. The tonsils, like all other parts at the back of the mouth, are subject to different kinds of swelling, which vary' as much in their nature as their consequences. Some are rapid in their progress, and these are frequently ob- served to affect persons of, what is termed, a sanguineous temperament. They are also prone to attack young people, and such as labour hard, and they have all the essential characters of in- flammation. Other swellings of the tonsils are slower in their progress, occur in damp cold weather, and in indolent, and, what the old physicians used to call, phlegmatic constitutions. Lastly, another kind of enlargement of the tonsils, which is usually contagious, readily falls into a sloughing, gangrenous state, sometimes extends to the neighbouring parts, and too often proves fatal. Hence, the various species of an- gina have been named by some writers inflam- matory, catarrhal, and gangrenous. The two first kinds frequently terminate in resolution; but, sometimes, the affected tonsils afterwards assume a scirrhous hardness, obstruct respiration and deglutition, so that it becomes indispensably' necessary', either to extirpate the diseased parts with the ligature or knife. The cutting away of enlarged tonsils was an operation, which was performed by the ancients, and in different ways. Sometimes, they tore with their fingers the membrane covering the tonsil, and then pulled this part out of the situa- tion, which it occupies between the pillars of the velum pendulum palati. In other instances, in which they experienced too much resistance, thev seized the diseased tonsil with a kind of hook, and then cut it away with a bistoury, which, Paulus iEgineta informs us, was concave on the side towards the tongue. The moderns, who, for a long while, were timid in the employment of both these methods, adopted plans of a more cruel description. The actual cautery was proposed, and some partial success, which followed its use, at once esta- blished its reputation. Caustics were afterwards employed, instead of actual fire; but, the incon- venience of not being able to limit their action, and the hazard of their falling down the oesopha- gus, soon caused them to be relinquished by all rational practitioners. Then the operation of cutting away the tonsils was revived, and it was performed, sometimes in the manner of the old surgeons, sometimes with various kinds of curved scissars, or knives. Instead of the simple tena- culum used by the ancients, a sort of double one came into fashion. Bichat describes the following, as once the com- mon plan : the surgeon is to open the mouth very