\VJ sing the absurd apprehensions, not uncommonly entertained by practitioners, respecting the en- trance of air into the abdomen and other cavi- ties of the body. He inquires: 1st. Whether air can really get into the cavity of the abdo- men? and. 2dly. Whether, if it were there, it would produce the dreadful effects ascribed to it? Upon the first question, his arguments run thus :—“ Suppose a wound of an inch in length : — suppose the bowel to have sunk, in some strange way, into the pelvis, for example, so as to have left a mere vacuum ; what should hap- pen with the flexible parietes of the abdomen ? Should they stand rigid, while the air rushed into the cavity to fill it? No, surely. But, on the contrary, the walls of the abdomen would fall together, and the pressure of the outward air, far from making the air rush in by the outward wound, would, at once, lay the belly Hat, and close the wound. But, since the walls of the abdomen are not flaccid, nor the cavity empty, but the abdomen full, and the flat muscles, which cover it, acting strongly, the effect must be much more particular ; for, the moment that the belly is wounded, the action of the muscles would force out part of the bowels ; the continuance of that action is necessary to respiration: the re- spiration continues as regular after the wound, as before ; and the continual pressure of the ab- dominal muscles, and the diaphragm, against all the viscera of the abdomen, prevents the access of air so eflectuallyi that though we should hold such a wound open with our fingers, no air could pass into the abdomen, further than to that piece of gut which is first touched with the fin- ger, when We thrust it into the abdomen. Nothing is absolutely exposed to the air, except that piece of intestine which is without the ab- domen, or that, which we see, when we expose a small piece of the bowels, by holding aside the lips of the wound. The pressing forward of that piece, and the protrusion of a portion of the gut, proportioned always to the size of the wound ; the pressure from behind keeping that piece pro- truded, so that it is with difficulty we can push it back with our finger ; this incesssant pressure, in all directibns, is an absolute security against the access of air The intestine comes out, not like water out of a bottle, the place of which must be supplied by air entering into the bottle, in proportion as the water comes out; but, the gut is pushed down by the action of the muscu lar walls of the abdomen, and that action follows the intestine, and keeps it down, and prevents all access of the air, whether the gut continue thus protruding, or whether it be reduced; for, if it be reduced, the walls of the abdomen yield, allowing it to be thrust back, but admitting no air. Those, who want to know the effect of air, diffused within the cavity of the abdomen, must make other experiments, than merely cutting open pigs’ bellies;—they must give us a fair case, without this unnecessary wound. We will not allow them to say, when they cut open the belly of any creature, with a long incision, that the inflammation arises from the air ; much less shall we allow them to say, .when they open the belly with a smaller incision, that, by that little incision, the-air gets into the abdomen, and UNDS 1207 that all the bowels are exposed to the air.” (Dis- cai/rscs on theNuturc of lVounds,j>. 343.3 -id.) In adverting to the question, whether air is so irritating to the cavities of the body, as many have supposed, Mr. John Bell criticises, with much spirit and success, the opinions, published on this subject, by Dr. A. Monro, in his account of the Bursae Mucosae, as the annexed quotations will shew. *• That the vulgar should believe, the first superficial impression that strikes them, of air hurting a wound or sore, is by rio means surprising; but, it is not natural, that men, bred to philosophy, should allow so strange an asser- tion as this, without some kind of proof. That the air which we breathe, and which we feel upon the surface so bland and delightful, should have so opposite a relation to the internal parts, that it should there be a stimulus, more acrid and more dangerous than the urine, is not to be be- lieved upon slight grounds. I do affirm, (sajs Mr. John Bell) that it remains to be proved, that this fluid, which seems so bland and pleasant to all our senses, and to the outward surface, is yet a horrible stimulus, when admitted, as a cele- brated author grandly expresses it, ‘ into the deep recesses of our body.’ ” (Monro's Bnrsce Mucosa.) With how much reason Mr. John Bell objects, that this doctrine is unfounded, will be manifest to every man of any discernment, or impartiality. “ The air, for instance, escapes from the lungs, in a fractured rib, and first goes abroad into the thorax; then into the cellular sub- stance; then the emphysematous tumor ap- pears ; but often without any scarifications, with very little care and assistance on our part, the air is absorbed, the tumor disappears, and, with- out inflammation of the chest, or any particular danger, the man gets well. Here then is the air, within the cavity of a shut sac, filling the thorax, and oppressing the lungs, without any dangerous inflammation ensuing. “ That the air may he pushed under the cel- lular substance over all the body, without caus- ing inflammation, is very plain, from the more desperate cases of emphysema, where the pa- tients,. after living eight or ten days, have died, not from inflammation, but from oppression merely, the body being so crammed with air, that even the eye-halls have, upon dissection, been found as tense as blown bladders We have also many ludicrous cases of this kind, which prove this to our perfect satisfaction. Soldiers, and sailors, sometimes touch the scro- tum with a lancet, introduce a blow pipe, and blow it up to an enormous size, imitating her- niae, by which they hope to escape from the ser- vice. The old story of n man, who was so wicked as to make a hole in his c hild’s head, and blow it up, that he might shew the child in the streets of Paris for a monster, is well authenti- cated ; and, 1 have little doubt, that a fellow, who knew how to do this, would blow it up every morning, and squeeze it out when he put the child to bed at night. Some villanous butchers, having a grudge at a soldier, found him lying drunk under a hedge; they made a little hole in his neck, and blew him up, till lie was like a bladder, or, ns Dr. Hunter describes the disease of emphysema, like a stuffed skin." (1J. 388, 389.)