CANCER. When the tumor lias advanced to what may- be called cancerous suppuration, which, however, does not always happen in the centre, before it has approached the skin, and formed an external sore ; it then exhibits an appearance totally dif- lerent from what has been described. In the centre is a small irregular cavity, tilled with a bloody fluid, the edges of which arc ulcerated, jagged, and spongy. Beyond these, there is a radi- ated appearance of ligamentous bands, diverging towards the circumference; but, the tumor, near the circumference, is more compact, and is made up of distinct portions, each of which lias a centre, surrounded by ligamentous bands, In concentric circles. In some instances, scirrhus lias no appearance of suppuration, or ulceration, in the centre, but consists'of a cyst, tilled with a transparent fluid, and a fungous excrescence, projecting into this cavity, the lining of which is smooth and po- lished. When a large hydatid of this kind occurs, a number of very small ones have been found, in different parts of the same tumor; and, in other cases, there are many very small ones, of the size of pins’ heads, without a large one. These hydatids are, by no means, sufficiently frequent in their occurrence to admit of their forming any part of the character of a cancerous tumor. ('Home's Ob- servations on Cancer,}). 156, <Sfc. 8vc. Loud. 1805.) In the fourth chapter of this work, the author relates two cases of hydatids found in the breast. In the first, the contents of the cyst were bloody serum ; in the second, a clear fluid. These two eases of simple hydatids in the breast, unconnected with any other diseased alteration of structure, led Sir E. Home to consider more particularly the nature of such hydatids, as are sometimes found in cancerous breasts; and, lie believes, that they form no real part of the cancerous disease, but are accidental complaints superadded to it; and, it is this gentleman’s belief, that, as they occur in the natural state of the gland, they are much more likely to do so in disease. {Op. cit. p. 108, 159.) Sir E. Home defines what lie means by cancer, as follows : “ As cancer is a term, too indis- criminately' applied to many local diseases for which we have no remedy, though theyr differ very much among themselves, it becomes ne- cessary' to state what the complaints are, which I include under this denomination. The present ob- servations, respecting cancer, apply only' to those diseased appearances, which are capable of con- taminating other parts, either by direct com- munication, or through the medium of the absorb- ents ; and when they approach the skin, produce in it small tumors of their own nature, by' a mode of contamination, with which we are at present unacquainted. “There is a disease, by' which parts of a glandu- lar structure are very frequently attacked, parti- cularly the os tincae, the alas of the nose, the lips, and the glans penis. This has been called can- cer. but differs from the species, of which we are now treating, in not contaminating the neigh- bouring parts, with which it is in contact; and neither affecting the absorbent glands, nor the skin at a distance from it. It is, properly speak- ing, an eating sore, which is uniformly progress- ive ; whereas, in cancer, after the sore has mpdc some progress, a ridge is formed upon the mar- gin, and the ulceration no longer takes thatij direction. It also differs from a cancer, in ad-il milting of a cure it: many instances, and underjl different modes of treatment. “ From the facts which have been stated, (iScejj the cases detailed in this gentleman’s work,) ittj appears, that cancer is a disease, which is local. ii/M its origin. In this respect, the cases (alluded to)(| only' confirm an opinion very generally received)! amongst medical practitioner's; but, in favour olj| which, no series of facts had been laid before thj public, of sufficient force entirely to establish tlici opinion.” (P. 145, &;<-.) Sir E. Home endeavours to establish a second! point, that cancer is not a disease, which immc-l diulely takes place in a healthy part of the body but one, for the production of which it is necessary! that the part should have undergone some previmtA change, connected with, the disease. In proof offi this, Sir E. Home adduces the two first cases infi his work, and the innumerable instances, in which! a pimple, small tumor, or wart upon the nose! cheek, or prepuce, may remain for ten, fifteen* or thirty years, without producing the smallest! inconvenience; but, at the age of sixty or seventy,; upon being cut in shaving, bruised by' any acci-j dental violence, or otherwise injured, assumes a| cancerous disposition. All the cases of induration of the gland of the! breast, or of indolent tumors in it, which have* continued for y'ears, without producing any sym-* ptom, and, after being irritated by' accidental vio-t lenee, have assumed a new disposition, and become* cancerous, admit of the same explanation ; and! are adduced as so many proofs of the truth of this* latter position. (P. 147, &v.) However, the doctrine, that certain tumors ma\i change their nature, and change into cancer, isf one, which is sometimes looked upon with suspi cion. “ Improper treatment may without doubi| exasperate diseases, and render a complaint, whichl appeared to be mild and tractable, dangerous, or’ destructive; but, to aggravate the symptoms, and to change the form of the disease, are things, that ought not to be confounded. I do not affirm (says Mr. Pearson) that a breast, which has been the seat of a mammary' abscess, or a gland that lias been affected by scrofula, may not become cancerous ; for they' might have suffered from this disease, had no previous complaint existed ; but, these morbid alterations generate no greater propen- sity to cancer, than if the parts had always re- tained their natural condition. There is no neces sary connexion between cancer and any other disease; nor has it ever been clearly' proved, that one is convertible into the other.” (Praet, Ohs. on Cancerous Complaints, p. 8.) To the latter way of thinking, Mr. Abernethy also in clines ; for, in speaking of the occurrence of can- cer in parts previously diseased in another man ner, he confesses, that his own observations have not led him to believe, that this change is com- mon. “ Cases of tumors, which have remained indolent for twenty or more years, becoming cancerous at an advanced period of life, are not un- frequently met with;” but, (says Mr. Abernethy.) the patients “ might have been liable to the for- mation of a cancerous disease, even if no diseased structure had previously existed.” A degree of in- decision, however, appears to he thrown upon this statement by the admission, that cancer is mere