490 FRACTURES. substance is apt to yield, and become lengthened by bending the lcnee too early, and he therefore never allows this motion to be performed before the end of two months. When the ligamentous substance is long, and the patient very slow in regaining the use of the extensor muscles, he should sit every day on a table, and endeavour to bring them into action, and as this increases, a weight may be affixed to the foot, as Hunter, Sheldon, &c. recommend. Nothing keeps the leg more surely extended than a long, broad, excavated splint, with a suit- able pad, applied to the posterior part of the thigh and leg, and fixed there with a roller, while the thigh itself is to be bent by raising the whole limb, from the heel to the top of the thigh, with pillows, which, of course, must form a gra- dual ascent from the tuberosity of the ischium to the foot. The broken patella is almost always united hy means of a ligamentous substance, instead of bone. However, that an osseous union may follow a transverse fracture of the patella, and still more frequently a perpendicular one, is a fact of which there is now not the slightest doubt. Thus, Lallement has published an unequivocal specimen of a transverse fracture united by bone, with the history of the case, and the appearances after the death of the patient from some other affection. (Bayer, Traite des Mai. C/dr. T.3. p. 355, <§-c.) In the collection of Dr. William Hunter, there is one well-marked instance of the bony union of a trairverse fracture of the patella, and other examples have been seen in the dead subject by Mr. Wilson. (On the Structure, Physiology, Qc. of the Skeleton, p\ 240.) The reason why trans- verse fractures of the patella do not commonly unite by callus is not owing to the want of power in this bone to produce an osseous connecting substance; for, as Larrey has several times no- ticed, if the fragments are kept in perfect contact by means of a suitable apparatus, their bony re- union becomes so complete, that scarcely any vestige of the injury can afterwards be traced. (Journ. Complem. T. Z, p. 114.) Indeed, it is a fact, on which Larrey dwells, as affording a proof that callus is produced not by the periosteum, but by the vessels of the bones themselves. And, what must add strength to the purport of the foregoing remarks is, the consideration, that perpendicular or longitudinal fractures of the patella, which are not liable to any displacement from the action of the extensor muscles of the leg, readily admit of bony union. ( Wilson on the Structure and Physiology, Sfc. of the Skeleton, p. 239.) This is a statement which, I think, could not be rendered doubtful by any experi- ments made on animals, without the advantages of quietude and proper treatment. Yet, there are other facts related, which prove that both in longitudinal and transverse fractures a liga- mentous union is generally produced, when the fragments are separated; but. if these are not drawn asunder, an osseous union takes place. Thus, in one case, reported by Mr. A. Cooper, one third of the patella was separated from the rest of this bone, and had united by ligament, a free motion being left between the fragments. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, />• 94.) The same gentleman divided the patella longitudinally in a dog, without extending the division into the ten- don above, or the ligament below, so that the fragments could not be separated. In three weeks, a close bony union was the result. (P. 95.) A case is also related, in which a gen- tleman fractured the patella transversely, and the lower portion likewise perpendicularly. The transverse fracture united, as usual, hy ligament; the perpendicular one, by bone. ( P. 9G.) 1 he incorrect notions, formerly entertained, respecting the inconveniences of an exudation and projection of the callus into the joint after a fracture of the patella, and especially when the fragments are kept in contact, were long ago re- futed by Pott and Sheldon. (Pott’s Clnr'. Works, Vol. 1, p. 312, Eii. of 1808. Sheldon's E-say on the Fracture of the Patella, tSc. Zoo. Loud. 1789.) On the contrary, as Mr. A. Cooper particularly remarks, “ the internal articular sur- face of the bone preserves its natural smooth- ness.” (Essays, Part 2, p. 86.) How such doctrine of a superabundant callus, could ever be reconciled with the doubts about a bony union ever being possible, appears difficult of explana- tion. Pott, and some others, thought that there being commonly an interspace afterwards be- tween the two pieces of the patella, with a cer- tain length of the connecting substance, might be advantageous in the motion of the joint; but Desault, Boyer, Mr. A. Cooper, Sir J. Earle, and others, have always found, that the greater the distance between the two pieces of the bone, the greater is the difficulty afterwards in walking up a rising, or over an unequal ground: In the treatment of a longitudinal, or perpendi- cular, fracture of the patella, the leg should be kept extended, leeches used, and a cold lotion applied. After a few days, a roller is to be put round the limb, and then a laced knee-cap, with straps buckled round the limb above and below the pa- tella. (A. Cooper, Vol. cit. p. 96.) The expe- rience of Dupuytren confirms the fact, that a longitudinal fracture of the patella is soon well consolidated. (Aniviuim Med. Chir. de Paris, p. 98, 4in. Paris, 1819.) Compound fractures of the patella frequently terminate in the death of the patient, unless amputation be done early. The injury, however, does not invariably lead either to the loss of life, or limb. I saw a case in St. Bartholomew’s hospital last summer (1820'', under Mr. Vincent, where the patella was broken to pieces, and the opening so extensive, ihat tb£ fingers readily passed into the joint; yet, after a tedious confinement, the formation of ab- scesses, and the separation of several fragments of bone, the patient recovered with a stifl' joint. In general, however, I believe, with Mr. A. Cooper, that in compound fractures of the pa- tella, if the laceration be extensive, or the contu- sion very considerable, amputation will be re- quired: but, if the •wound be small, the patient not irritable, and no sloughing of the integu- ments, or ligament, likely to occur, it will be best to try to save the limb. (I oL cit■ p. 99.) The wound should be reunited as speedily as possible, and advantage taken of evaporating lotions, perfect rest in a desirable posture, a very low regimen, leeche^, venesection, and saline opening medicines. Since writing the above re- marks, I have seen another case of bad compound fracture of the patella in St. Bartholomew s hos- pital. where it has been about a month. No frag-