£>G2 HYDROCELE. sneezing, &c. and it lias no effect on the dis- charge per anum. The two diseases, with which this kind of hy- drocele is most likely to be combined, are, an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis, and a true hernia. “ One mark, or characteristic of an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis is, that it possesses and distends the inferior part of the scrotum ; and that the testicle being nearly (though not absolutely) surrounded by the water, it very sel- dom happens, that the former can be clearly and plainly distinguished by the fingers of an ex- aminer ; whereas, in the bncysted collection, in the membranes of the cord, the tumor is always above the testicle, which is obvious and plain to be felt below it. “ Another circumstance worth attending to is, that although the fluid in a hydrocele of the va- ginal coat does so nearly surround the testis as to render it often not very easy to be distinguish- ed, yet the different parts of the tumor have al- ways a very different feel: for instance, in all those points where the vaginal tunic is loose, and unconnected with the tunica albuginea, the tu- mor is soft andcompressible, and gives a clear idea of the contained fluid; but where these two coats are continuous, or make one and the same membrane, and have no cavity between them (which is the case on the middle and posterior part) there will always be found a hardness and firmness very unlike to what is to he found in all those places, where the distance between the two tunics leaves room for the collection of a fluid; now the hydrocele of the cord being formed in the mere cellular membrane of it, is the same to the touch in all the parts of the tumor, and feels like a distended bladder through every point of it. “ The free state of the upper part of the sper- matic process, while the tumor is forming be- low ; the gradual accumulation of the fluid, and consequently the gradual growth of the swelling; the indolent and unaltering state of it; its being incapable of reduction, or return into the belly from the first; its being always unaffected by the patient’s coughing, or sneezing; and the un- interrupted freedom of the fecal discharge per anum, will always distinguish it from an intesti- nal hernia; and he who mistakes it for an omen- tal one, must be very ignorant, or very heed- less.” Mr. Pott met with an encysted hydrocele, si- tuated so high toward the groin, as to render the perception of the spermatic vessels very obscure, or even impracticable; but then, the state and appearance of the testicle, and the absence of every symptom proceeding from confinement of the intestinal canal, were sufficient marks of the true nature of the complaint. Several writers describe this kind of hydrocele, as in fact a com- mon encysted tumor, formed in the cellular sub- stance, between the vas deferens and spermatic vessels. (Delpech, Precis Elcm. dcs Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 464.) Yet, since ordinary encysted swellings are very difficult to disperse, there is probably some difference between the two affec- tions, at least, if the observation of Mr. Pott be correct, that, in young children, the encysted hy- drocele of the cord frequently dissipates in a short time, especially if assisted by warm fomentation, and an open belly. If it be not absorbed, “ the point of a lancet will give discharge to the water ; and, in young children, will most frequently produce a cure: but, in adults, the cyst, formed by the pressure ot the fluid, does sometimes become so thick, as to require division through its whole length; I which operation may in general be performed with great ease, and perfect safety.’’ Mr. Pott : says, in general, because it is most frequently so: J though he has seen even this, slight as it may seem, prove troublesome, hazardous, and fatal. (See Pott on Hydrocele.) The late Sir J. Earle proposed treating this ! case, in the same way as the hydrocele of the tu- j nica vaginalis, viz. by an injection of red wine j and water; which method is often successful, j (Oh Hydrocele, p. 154, edit. 2.) However, the cure of an encysted hydrocele of the sper- j matic cord, by means of an injection, is generally I regarded by modern surgeons, as less certain and I advantageous, than the excision of a part of the cyst. The operation, which is described by ll Bertrandi, Mr. Hey, Richerand, Ac. consists in cutting down to the cyst, and removing the fore- J j part of it, while the portion, closely attached to I the cord, is to be allowed to remain. For addi- I tional observations on this species of hydrocele, ;| see the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, | Vol. 2, p. 121.) HYDROCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. If the quantity oflimpid fluid, which naturally I moistens the surface of the tunica albuginea and I the inside of the tunica vaginalis, be secreted in I an undue quantity, or if regular absorption of it t be by any means prevented, it will gradually ac- 1 cumulate, and distend the cavity of the latter I membrane, so as to form the present species of 1 hydrocele. The case, in which the fluid is sup- 1 posed to descend either partly or entirely from • I the cavity of the abdomen, in consequence of the 1 communication not being shut up in the usual ;| time, between the cavity of the peritoneum andji that of the tunica vaginalis, is well known to ! surgeons under the appellation of a congenital i , hydrocele; a disease, of which particular notice 1 has been taken in the 2d Vol. of the last edition of the First Lines of Surgery. 8 vo. Loud, j 1820, and to which I shall therefore very briefly I advert in this article. Hydrocele of the vaginal! j coat is a disease from which no time of life is* I exempt; not only adults are subject to it, but|K| young children are frequently afflicted with it an and infants sometimes born with it. (Pott.) AmLlS it is remarked to be common in old men, andjfl persons who ride a good deal on horseback-1J ( Helper h Precis Elcm. dcs Mai. Chir. T. 3, If p. 177.) The causes of hydrocele of the tunica vagina-jg lis can scarcely be said t# be at all understood and when Mr. Pott observes, that whatever tcndaB to increase the secretion of fluid into the eavitjM of that membrane, beyond the due and necessary!I quantity, or to prevent its being taken up, an()il carried off’, by the absorbent vessels, must con I tribute to the production of the disease, nearly ayjfl much is stated, as can be advanced with safety!! in the present state of our knowledge. Ruyscl||| had a suspicion, that this hydrocele might arkfll from a varicose state of the spermatic veins jtl but, though Mr. Pott acknowledges, that thcs<( j vessels are very frequently found varicose in P;if-1