HERNIA. O'15 down, in which the quantity of contents is large, the sac considerably thickened, and the scrotum of an irregular figure, the testicle frequently can- not be felt, neither is it in general easily felt in the congenital hernia for obvious reasons.” (Pott.) “ In the hernia humoralis, the pain in the testicle, its. enlargement, the hardened state of the epidydimis, and the exemption of tin* sper- matic cord from all unnatural fulness, are such marks as cannot easily be mistaken ; not to men- tion the generally preceding gonorrhoea. But, if any doubt still remains of the true nature of the disease, the progress of it from above down- ward, its different state and size in different pos- tures, particularly lying and standing, together with its descent and ascent, will, if duly attended to, put it out of all doubt, that the tumor is a true hernia." (Pott.) When an inguinal hernia does not descend through the abdominal ring, but only into the canal for the spermatic cord, it is covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and the swelling is small and undefined. Now and then, the testicle does not descend into the scrotum till a late period, and its first appearance at the ring, in order to get into its natural situation, may be mistaken for a hernia, unless the surgeon pay attention to the absence of the testicle from the scrotum, and the pe- culiar sensation occasioned by pressing the swell- ing. POINTS OF DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE EXTER- NAL AND INTERNAL INGUINAL HERNIA, &C. According to Hesselbach, the characteristic marks of the external bubonocele and scrotal hernia are; 1st. The direction of the tumor in the groin, 2dly. The fleshy fibres of the cre- master. 3dly. The position of the spermatic cord and testis, dthly. The situation of the epi- gastric artery. 5thlv. The origin of the hernia itself. 6thly. A preternatural shape of the body of the hernial sac. 1. The neck of the hernial sac, distended by the protruded viecera, raises up the front side of the inguinal canal, and superincumbent integu- ments, into an oblong swelling, which extends obliquely inwards and downwards towards the abdominal ring, and terminates in the tumor, formed by the body of the hernial sac. From its origin it becomes gradually more prominent and broad; and the greater the quantity of viscera protruded, arid the larger the body of the sac, the more manifest is this oblique swelling, parti- cularly when the neck of the hernia is of its na- tural length. In strangulated cases, the direc- tion of the tumor is still more striking, every part of the hernial sac being then considerably distended. When the inguinal canal, and of course the neck of the hernial sac are shortened, the swelling undergoes a proportional diminu- tion in its length; and then its resemblance to the tumor attending an internal inguinal hernia, where the opening through which the parts pass, is long and slanting, is so great, that the cases can only be discriminated by one circumstance, viz. the situation of the spermatic cord, and even this criterion is of course wanting in fe- males. (Hesselbach, p. 57, 58.) Hesselbach clearly explains, that the obliquity of the swell* 'ing is seated in the neck of the hernial sac- lie observes, that, when an internal bubonocele in a female subject passes into the labium, the descent takes place in a very sloping direction in- wards, and therefore, may at first be supposed to be an external case. But, on further examina- tion, the oblique swelling will be found to occu- py the body of the hernial sac, and to reach up- wards and outwards from the labium to the ab- dominal ring. Now this hernia cannot be mis- taken for an external bubonocele, the course of which from the ring is obliquely upwards and out- wards. Hesselbach reminds us, that an internal, in- guinal, or scrotal hernia may be conjoined with an external incomplete bubonocele; a kind of case easily made out with a little attention ; for the place of division between the two sacs is in- dicated by a more or less deep groove. The na- ture of the disease will also be still clearer, if one of the tumors admit of reduction. A speci- men of such a double hernia is to be seen in the museum at Wurzburg. It is further noticed by Hesselbach, that, when the situations of the external and internal hernias are compared, the first of these swellings will be found to be rather further than the other, from the symphysis of the pubes : a difference ascribed to the effect of the internal oblique muscle, the lower fibres of which, attached to the horizontal ramus of the pubes, run in a curved direction transversely over the anterior and inner part of the neck of the hernial sac, and are applied so closely to it, that it cannot approach quite so much towards the symphysis of the pubes, as the neck of the internal bubonocele does. The muscular fibres in question are situated directly behind the inner pillar of the abdominal ring. 2. Most of the fibres of the cremaster lie on the back of the neck of the sac, but others are also scattered over its external and internal sides. Some fibres, may also be perceived on its fore- part, which are remarkable, because they run in a transverse curved direction with their con- vexity downwards, and two fasciculi of which descend below the abdominal ring. These are the fibres of the cremaster, which proceed within the ring transversely upwards over the sper- matic cord, and are pushed out of that opening by the hernial sac. These arched fleshy fibres are not always, though generally, perceptible; and, when they are present on the forepart of the hernial sac, Hesselbach accounts them a sure cri- terion of an external scrotal hernia; but, he has not yet ascertained, whether they are visible, while the rupture is confined to the groin. fl. The situation of the spermatic cord and testis in the external inguinal hernia, and, 4. That of the epigastric artery, and its dis- placement inwards by the neck of the sac, have been sufficiently explained. 5. With respect to the mode, in which the hernia originates, the disease often takes place suddenly, without any exciting cause being ob- served, capable of accounting for the effect. Here, says Hesselbach, the predisposing cause must have been great; for instance, the communica- tion between the cavity ot the peritonaeum and that of the tunica vaginalis has remained a long while unclosed; and, when a hernia of this de-