1086 URETHRA. was suspected, that the precipitate had not suf- ficient power to destroy the obstruction. Mr. Hunter was induced, therefore, to fasten a small piece of the argentum nitratum on the end of a piece of wire with sealing-wax, and introduce the caustic through the cannula to the stricture. After having made the application three times, at intervals of two days, he found, that the man voided his urine much more freely, and, on ap- plying the caustic a fourth time, the cannula went through the stricture. A bougie was in- troduced for a little while afterwards, till the man had completely recovered. Having experienced this success, Mr. Hunter was encouraged to apply his mind to the invention of some instrument, better suited to the purpose, than the above contrivance; and an improved in- strument was devised, although lie acknowledges, that it was not perfectly adapted to strictures in every situation in the urethra. He remarks, that the caustic should be prevented from hurt- ing the unaffected part of the urethra by intro- ducing the active substance, through a cannula, down to the stricture; and that it should be ca- pable of protruding a little beyond the end of the cannula, by which means it will only act upon the stricture. The caustic should be fixed in a small portcrayon, and it is necessary to have a piece of silver of the length of the cannula, with a ring at one end, and a button at the other, of the same diameter as the cannula. The button forms a kind of plug, which should project beyond the end of the cannula in the urethra, so as to make a rounded end ; or, Mr. Hunter says, the portcrayon may be formed with this button at its other end. The cannula, with the button, is to be passed into the urethra, and when it reaches the stricture, the silver plug should be with- drawn, and the portcrayon with the caustic in- troduced in its place; or, if the plug and port- crayon are on the same instrument, then it is only necessary to withdraw the plug, and intro- duce the portcrayon with the caustic. The plug, besides giving a smooth rounded end to the can- nula, answers another good purpose, by prevent- ing the tube from being filled with the mucus of the urethra, when the instrument is passing in- ward, which mucus would be collected in the end of the cannula, dissolve the caustic too soon, and hinder its application to the stricture. When the stricture was beyond the straight part of the urethra, Mr. Hunter owned, that it was difficult to apply caustic to the disease through a cannula. A better mode of applying lunar caustic to strictures was afterwards devised bv Hunter, and has since been extensively introduced into prac- tice by Sir E. Home. This gentleman directs us to take a bougie of a size, that can be readily passed down to the stricture, and to insert a small piece of lunar caustic into the end of it, lettino- the caustic be even with the surface, but surrounded cverv where laterally by the substance of the bougie. This should be done some little time before it is required to be used ; for, the materials, of which the bougie is composed, be- come warm and soft by being handled in insert- ing the caustic; and, therefore, the hold, which the bougie has of the caustic, is rendered more secure after the wax has been allowed to cool oiled and made ready for use; but, before pass- ing it, a common bougie of the same size is to be introduced down to the stricture, in order to clear the canal, and to measure the exact distance of the stricture from the orifice of the urethra. This distance being marked upon the armed bougie, it is to be passed down to the stricture, as soon as the other is withdrawn. The caustic, in its passage, is scarcely allowed to come into contact with any part of the membrane, because the point of the bougie, of which the argentum nitratum forms the central part, always moves in the middle line of the canal; and, indeed, the quickness, with which it is conveyed to the stric- ture, prevents any injury of the membrane lining the passage when the caustic accidentally touches it. In this mode the caustic is passed down with little or no irritation to the lining of the urethra, it is applied in the most advantageous manner to the stricture, and can be retained in that situ- ation sufficiently long to produce the desired effect. The reasons, urged in favour of the employ- ment of bougies armed with the lunar caustic, are: that a permanent cure is effected, which common bougies cannot accomplish; that the pain, arising from the application of the argen- tum nitratum to the stricture, is very inconsider- able; and that neither irritation nor inflamma- tion is found to ensue. The meaning of these remarks, however, is to be received as a general one, liable to exceptions. Indeed, Sir E. Home himself has candidly acknowledged, that some inconveniences occasionally follow the use of armed bougies. But, what practice, however judicious and eligible, is altogether free from oc- casional ill consequences ? Sir E. Home remarks, that, against treating strictures of the urethra, with caustic bougies, numerous objections have been adduced, and many bad consequences have been attributed to the practice, without any real foundation; “ for, whatever, a priori, might be supposed the effects of so violent an application, to a membrane so sensible and irritable as the urethra, and I will admit, that it is very natural to conceive they would be very severe, the result of experience, the only thing to be relied on, evinces the contrary. The pain, that is brought on, is by no means violent; and neither irrita- tation, nor inflammation, is found to take place. “ That cases do occur, in which strictures have produced so much mischief, and rendered so great an extent of the canal diseased, that the use of the caustic has proved unsuccessful, is certainly true; and several of these cases have fallen within my own knowledge. But, when it is stated that none, even of these, were made worse by its use; that no had consequences attend it; and that no other mode, at present known, is equally efficacious; any occasional want of success cannot be considered as an ob- jection to this mode of practice. “ But if the apprehension of violent effects from the caustic, however ill-founded, cannot be removed, let the alternative be considered; namely, the only operation previously in use, where a stricture cannot be dilated by the bougie. “ In those cases we are obliged to have re- course to means certainly more severe and vio-