LAC 746 searches, respecting the Diseases of Joints, in \ oh 4, 5 aucl G oj the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Also his Pathological and Sur- gical^ Observations on the Joints, Hvo. Loud. 181G j a work containing a great- deal of correct and original information. Schreger, Chirur- gischc Versiichc, B. 2, p. 209, £c. Beitragc zur Nosologie der Gclcnhkrankhcitcn, 8vo. Nurnberg, 1818. J. N. Rust, Arthrokuko- logie, odcr iiber die Verrenkungen durch innere Be din gang, 4 to. Wien. 1817/ A publication of great merit. Dr. Tomaso Volpi, Abhandl. uber die Koxalgic, aus dem Hal. iibersctzt von Dr. P. Heinelcen. The original I have nut seen, but the transl. contains copious extracts from the prize essay, which 1 drew up some years ago, with additional observations and cases. Richerand's JVosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 170, &y. Ed. 4. Langcnbeck, Ncuc Bill. B. 2, p. 337. G. Gotz, Dc Morbis Ligamentorum, 4to. Bcrol. 1799. Delpech, Precis Element, des Mai. Chir. T. 2, p. 377, T. 3, p. 194, p. LAC 470, p. 711, $c. Paris, 181G. II. Mayo, on an acute Form' of Ulceration of the Cartilages of Joints, in Med. Chir. Trans. Pol. 2, p. 104, J. A ilson, Lectures on the Structure and Phy- siology of the Skeleton, and Discuses of the Bones and Joints, 8vo. Loud. 1820. E. A. Lloyd, A Treatise on the Nature, Sf c. of Sera- ph ula, 8 vo. Loud. 1821. The two last publica- tions deserve attentive perusal. JUGULAR VEIN, how to bleed in. See Bleeding. Jugular vein, internal, wounded. Dr. Giraud cursorily mentions a case, in which a French surgeon, at the military hospital of'Tou- louse, early in the year 1814, passed a ligature round the trunks of the common carotid artery' and internal .jugular vein. Both these vessels had been wounded by a musket-shot. On the sixth day from the application of the ligature, nothing unfavourable had occurred; but, the final result of the case is not related. (See Journ. G oner ale dc Mccl. §c. par Sedillot.) ALT. See Potassa. KERATONYXIS. The term, kera- tonyxis, derived from a horn, and vo|if, a puncture, is employed by the professors in Ger- many' to denote the operation of couching per- formed through the cornea, or horny coat of the eye, the opaque lens being in this manner some- times depressed, sometimes broken piecemeal, and, in other instances, merely turned, so as to place its anterior and posterior surface in the horizontal position. The latter method is what the German surgeons particularly imply by the phrase rcelination. See Cataract. KNEE. DISEASES, AND INJURIES OF THE. See Dislocations; Fractures; Gunshot-Wounds ; Joints, cjc. L. ACHRYMAL ORGANS, Diseases of the. The lachrymal gland cannot be said to be a part which is frequently the seat of dis- ease. Richerand has seen no instance of an inflammation of this gland, unless by this ex- pression be implied cases in which all the con- tents of the orbit are more or less affected. (Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 32.) I believe, that the surrounding cellular substance is more fre- quently attacked with inflammation and suppu- ration, than the gland itself. According to Pro- fessor Beer, (Lchre von den Aiigenkr. B. 1, p. 349), true idiopathic inflammations of the lachrymal gland are very rare, and he declares that, in the course of a practice of twenty-seven years, he has but seldom met with them. On this point he differs from Schmidt, who fancied that he had often had under his care cases of this description in gouty and scrophulous sub- jects. (Ueber dic Kranlch. des Thrancnorgans, p. 1.34.) When the lachrymal gland is attacked with inflammation, its secretion, far from being augmented, as Richerand describes, is always considerably lessened, and therefore one of the earliest symptoms is an uneasy dry state of the eye, the secretion from the meibomian glands, and mucous membrane of the eyelids, not being alone sufficient for keeping the eye duly moist and lubricated. This state is succeeded by' a throbbing acute pain in the temple, shooting to the eyeball, forehead, upper and lower jaws, and back of the head. In the mean while, the temporal portion of the upper eyelid becomes swelled, tense, red, and exceedingly tender, the tunica conjunctiva being scarcely at all affected, and merely exhibiting a slight degree of redness and tumefaction towards the outer canthus. However, as the swelling of the gland increases, the eye-ball becomes pushed more or less down- wards, and inwards towards the nose. But, though there is little or no redness nor any mark of inflammation about the cy'e, this organ is tense, and extremely tender. The freedom of its movements towards the temple is much lessened in the beginning of the complaint, and, when the tumor has acquired a very' large size, is quite destroyed. The impairment of vision is always proportionate to the protrusion of the eyeball, the pupil being diminished, and the iris motionless. The second, or suppurative, stage Beer describes as ushered in by fiery' appear- ances before the eye; an increased displacement of the eyeball; throbbing pain ; great increase of the swelling of the upper eyelid, and of the 5. c; r: ns K .. ■V. 4; 4': 4. V