6B2 HYDROPHOBIA. tion in the digestive organs are not so constant as afraid of cutting deeply enough, or of removing in the lungs and brain. In none of the six cases a sufficient quantity of the surrounding flesh, dissected by him, was there any appearance of in- would be a most dangerous one for the patient, inanimation in the pharynx, though some parts of All hopes of life depend on the prevention of the alimentary canal were affected in this manner, the disorder ; for, in the present state of me- 1 he cases recorded, however, in which the digestive dical knowledge, none can rest upon the ef- organspresented considerablemorbid appearances, ficacy of any plan, except the extirpation of the are very numerous. I hus Joseph de Aromatarius, part. For this purpose, caustics have sonie- Darlue (Rccueil Period. T. 3, p. 189, ct T. 4, times been employed. However, as their action p. 270), Sauvages (p. 107), Professor Rossi, can never be regulated with the same precision M. Gorci (Jonrn. de Med. Chir. S(c. T. 13), as that of the knife, and, consequently, they may and Dr. Powell (Case of Hydrophobia), found not destroy the flesh to a sufficient depth, ex- inflammation either in the pharynx, or oesophagus, cision should always be preferred. The latter or both these tubes. Dr. Powell’s words are method is also the safest, for another important “ the oesophagus was rather redder, than natural, reason, viz. the part, and poison lodged in it, are and covered with a thin layer of coagulable removedfrom thebodvat once; but, when the cau- lymph.” A similar coat of lymph was also found by Oldknow (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Jonrn. Vol. 5, p. '280), Ballingall (Op. tit. Vol. 11, p. 76), Dr. Ferriar (Med. Hist. <Sfc. Vo/. 3, p. ‘27.) In dogs, Dr. Gillman found the pharynx and oesophagus in a state of in- flammation. (On the Bite of a Rabid Animal, p. 13, 23, 26, 44.) It is conjectured, that in many of these instances, the inflammation ex- tended to the oesophagus from the trachea and bronchia;. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 98 ) Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach, and small intestines, has likewise been very generally noticed, as may be seen by referring to the accounts published by Morgagni, Powell, Oldknow, Ferriar, Ballingall. Marshall, &c. In dogs, the same fact was remarked by Dr. Gillman (p. 13, 31, 44); sometimes, how- ever, according to this last author, no vestiges of inflammation, nor any other morbid appearances, are discoverable in the examination of animals, that have died of rabies. (P. 83.) Dupuytren is stated to have found the mucous membrane of the stomach and bowels inflamed in several places, and even almost gangrenous. (Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 98.) From recent investigations, made at the vete- rinary school at Alfort, by Professor Dupuy, the following are the usual morbid appearances, no- ticed in the dissection of dogs, horses, cows, and sheep, destroyed by rabies. 1. The lungs and brain universally gorged with blood. 2. Greater or lesser remarks of inflammation in the mucous membrane of the bronchite, trachea, larynx, throat, oesophagus, stomach, and frequently even in that of the bowels, vagina, uterus, and bladder. 3. The air-passages filled with frothy mucus. 4. A collection of serum in the ventricles of the brain, and sometimes even between the mem- branes, covering the spinal marrow. 5. An un- usual redness of the investment of the pneumo- gastric and trisplanchnic nerves. (See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 99.) Happily, surgery possesses one tolerably cer- tain means of preventing hydrophobia, when it is practised in time, and in a complete manner. Every reader will know, that the excision of the bitten parts is the operation, to which I allude. Indeed, as hydrophobia is often several months before it begins, the wounded parts should, per- haps, always be cut out, even though they are healed, and some weeks have elapsed since the accident, provided no symptoms of hydrophobia have actually commenced. I lie operation should be done completely ; for a timorous surgeon, tery or caustic is used, the slough must remain a certain time undetached. Some surgeons are not content with cutting out the part: but, after the operation, fill the wound with the liquor ammo- niae, or cauterize its surface, for the sake of greater security. How late excision may be done with any prospect of utility I am not pre- pared to say; but, there are practitioners, who deem excision right, even when heat, irritation, or inflammation is observed in the bitten part. (See Med. Repository, Vol. 3, p. o4.) Cases present themselves, in which it is even preferable to amputate the limb, than attempt to extirpate either with the knife, or cautery the whole of the bitten parts; an endeavour, which could not be accomplished with any degree of certainty. Thus, as Delpeeh observes, when the hand, or foot has been deeply bitten in se- veral places, it is obvious, that it would be im- possible to make caustic, (or the cautery) cer- tainly reach every part, which the saliva of the rabid animal may have touched. Besides, the mischief resulting both from the injury, and the other proceedings together, might be such as to afford no prospect of saving the limb, or at least, of preserving it in an useful state. (See Precis Elcm. dcs Mai. Chir. T. 2, p. 133.) I have known of one, or two cases, in which the patients lost their lives, in consequence of the excision, or destruction of the bitten parts not having been attempted, on account of the surgeon’s re- luctance to cut tendons, or wound a large artery, as one of those at the wrist In such cases, how- ever, the fear of rendering a muscle useless, or of wounding an artery, is no justification of leaving the patient exposed to a danger, so surely fatal, as that of the hydrophobic virus, if it once affect the constitution. The artery should be exposed fora sufficient length, and secured with two liga- tures, when the requisite extirpation of the parts between them may be safely performed. When once the hydrophobic symptoms have commenced, there is little or no hope of saving the patient, the disease having almost invariably baffled every plan of treatment, which the united talents of numerous medical generations have suggested. All the most powerful medicines of every class have been tried again and again ; mercury ; opium ; musk ; camphor; arsenic ; the nitrate of silver; cantharides ; belladonna; ammonia; plunging the patient in the sea; bleeding; &c. &c. The inefficacy of opium is now generally ac- knowledged : in the space of fourteen hours, Dr. J. Vaughan gave one patient fifty-seven grains