CO 2 HERNIA. ami in which the piece of intestine was little more than half an inch. Another observation made by Pott is, that it the hernia be caused by a portion of the intos- tine ileum only, it is in general more easily re- ducible, than it a part of the colon has descended with it, which will also require more address and more patience in the attempt. The reduction of a mere intestinal hernia too (ceeteris paribus) will always remain more practicable, than that of a mere omental one, after it has attained to a certain size and state, as the part contained within the former is liable to less alteration of form than that within the latter; which alteration has already been mentioned as no infrequent hindrance of the return of an old caul-rupture. “ Not that the parts within a mere intestinal hernia are absolutely exempt from such an al- teration as may render their return into the belly impracticable, even where there is no stricture; .for, says Pott, I have seen that part of the me- sentery, which has lain long in the neck of the sac of an old rupture, so considerably hardened and thickened, as to prove an insuperable obstacle to its reduction.” Upon the whole, this author infers, that an intestinal rupture is subject to worse symptoms, and a greater degree of hazard, than an omental one, though the latter is, by no means, so void of either as it was formerly supposed to be ; that bad symptoms are more likely to attend a recent rupture, than one of ancient date; that the de- scent of a very small piece of intestine is more hazardous than that of a larger; and that the hernia, which consists of gut only, is in general attended with worse circumstances, than that which is made up of both gut and caul. Mr. fley coincides with Pott, in thinking the prognosis more unfavourable when the tumor is small. “ I think it is not a bad general rule, that the smaller the hernia, the less hope there is of reducing it by the taxis. Long-continued efforts to reduce a prolapsed intestine, are most likely to succeed in old and large hernias, when no adhesions have taken place.” Pract. Ob- serv. in Surgery, p. 203.) “ The opening (says Mr. Lawrence) through which the parts protrude, is narrower in some situations than in others; the progress of the case will therefore be more rapid, and the danger of the patient more urgent. The aper- ture is generally very small in femoral hernia; this kind of rupture in men, and the bubonocele in women, have a particularly narrow entrance. On the same grounds, femoral, inguinal, and umbilical, ruptures are more dangerous than the ventral, perineal, or vaginal kinds. Treatise on Ruptures, p. G3, Eel. 3.) treatment of a hernia capable of easy and IMMEDIATE REDUCTION, AND NOT ATTENDED WITH ANY TROUBLESOME OR BAD SYM- PTOMS. “ This case,” says Pott, “ is very frequently met with in infants, and sometimes in adults, and is too often neglected in both. In the for- mer, as the descent seldom happens but when the infant strains to cry, and the gut is either easily put up, or returns sub. spontc, as soon as the child becomes quiet, it often is either totally unattended to, or an attempt made to restrain it only by n bandage made of cloth, or dimity, and which being ineffectual for such purpose, lays the foundation for future trouble and mischief. “ This is, in great measure, owing to a com- mon opinion, that a young infant cannot wear a steel truss ; a generally prevailing error, and which ought to be corrected. There is no age at which such truss may not be worn, or ought not to be applied; it is, when well made, and properly put on, not only perfectly safe and easy, but the only kind of bandage that can be depended upon; and as a radical cure depends greatly on the thinness of the hernial sac, and its being capable of being so compressed as pos- sibly to unite, and thereby entirely close the passage from the belly, it must therefore appear to everjT one who will give himself the trouble of thinking on the subject, that the fewer times the parts have made a descent, and the smaller and finer the elongation of the peritoneum is, the greater the probability of such cure must be. “ The same method of acting must, for the same reasons, be good in every age in which a radical cure may reasonably be expected ; that is, the prolapsed parts cannot be too soon re- turned, nor too carefully prevented from falling down again, every new descent rendering a cure both more distant and more uncertain. “ As soon as the parts are returned, the truss should be immediately put on, and worn without remission, care being taken, especially if the patient be an infant, to keep the parts on which it presses constantly washed, to prevent galling. “ It can hardly be necessary to say, that the surgeon should be careful to see that the truss fits, as his success and reputation depend on such care. A truss which does not press enough, is worse than none at all, as it occasions loss of time, and deceives the patient, or his friends; and one which presses too much, or on an im- proper part, gives pain and trouble, by producing an inflammation and swelling of the spermatic chord, and sometimes of the testicle. “ In adults, whose ruptures are of long stand- ing, and accustomed to frequent descent, the hernial sac is generally firm and thick, and the aperture in the tendon of the abdominal muscle large ; the freedom and ease with which the parts return into the belly when the patient is in a supine posture, and the little pain which attends a rupture of this kind, often render the persons who labour under it careless : but all sucb should be informed, that they are in constant danger of such alteration in their complaint, as may put them into great hazard, and perhaps destroy them. The passage from the belly being open, the quantity of intestine in the hernial sac is always liable to be increased, and when down, to be bound by a stricture. An inflammation of that portion of the gut which is down, or such obstruction in it as may distend and enlarge it, may at all times produce sucli complaints as may' put the life of the patient into imminent danger; and therefore, notwithstanding this kind of hernia mav have been borne for a great length of time, without having proved either troublesome or hazardous, yet as it is always possible to become so, and that very suddenly, it can never be pru- dent or safe to neglect it. •c Even though the rupture should be of the