339 DISLOCATION. bone rests upon the os naviculare, and the other on the astragalus. According to Mr. A. Cooper, the fibula is broken; the foot ap- pears but little shortened; nor is there any con- siderable projection of the heel. The foot points downwards; it cannot be put flat on the ground, \nd is nearly stiff; and the heel continues drawn !p. The accident, if not detected and rectified 1 its early stage, afterwards admits of no relief, ae change in the state of the muscles, and the II position in which the fibula has united, not suf- , i criug any reduction, even though great force be inpl»yed. Dislocations forwards or backwards, of the ’bia, are not common : during fifteen years, Dn- uytren has scarcely met with two, or three ases; though he has seen some hundreds of la- :ral dislocation. It must be obvious to every •ody, says be, that when the foot is violently i ant, or extended, many powerful muscles re- st the movement in question, and prevent the lischief, with which the articulation is threatened. •1 nnuaire Med.Chir de HopitauxdeParis,/>.34.) luxation of the tibia from the astragalus back- ards, Mr. A. Cooper has never had an oppor- nity of observing; a proof of the rarity of the cident. A luxation of the astragalus, either simple, or niplicated with a laceration of the integuments, Mr. Hey has remarked, is an accident, which ies not often occur. Above, the astragalus is ticulated with the tibia and fibula; below, it is ited, by means of a capsular ligament, to the os Icis ; while, in front, it is connected to the os viculare by a capsular, and broad internal lateral ament. Thus situated, it is evident, that its ;placement is not likely to happen with great qucncy; anil, yet this observation must be re- ved only as a comparative one ; for, the cases dislocation of the astragalus, now upon record, ; rather numerous. When a dislocation of the lower head of the ti- . is combined with one of the astragalus from the calcis, and os naviculare, and the ligaments, ich kept these bones together, are nearly de- oyed, while a considerable portion of the as- galus itself protrudes through the wound in • integuments, if it be judged prudent to at- ipt , the preservation of the limb, it is best haps to imitate Desauit, Ferrand, Trye, and ans, and extract the astragalus altogether. A luxation of the astragalus, unattended with 'ouml in the skin, is a serious and embarrass- ■ accident; for, in general, the reduction is so tcult, that it is not many years since the case i deemed a ground for amputation. (See K'h’s Chir. C ises, Ac.) When the displace- at in question happens, the astragalus is gene- v thrown forwards upon the os naviculare, rung a turn on the instep, and inclining a e either to the outer, or inner side of the In many cases of this description, the re- tion is found to be impracticable. Here, as /er observes, the impediment does not depend n the head of the bone being constricted in narrow opening of the capsule; but rather n the impossibility of making the extending e> and the pressure of the surgeon’s hands, rate with much cflect upon the displaced hone. lvever, an example is recorded by Desault; rc l“c reduction was accomplished by divid- l ic skin, and then extending lli,e incision through a part of the ligaments. In the Journ. de Chir. another case is also related of a simple dis- location of the astragalus from the os calcis, and os naviculare, where the reduction was easily per- formed by common means. Boyer conceives it probable, that, in these cases, most of the liga- ments, uniting the astragalus to the os ealcis, and os naviculare were ruptured, and that the first of these bones was therefore sufficiently moveable to admit of being replaced by the pressure of the fingers. But, the luxated astragalus may be so wedged between the tibia, os calcis, and os navi- culare, that its reduction is impossible, as Boyer has actually seen. In the case, here referred to, things were left to take their course, except that every possible means was employed to keep off inflammation. The result was, that the skin, covering the projection of the astragalus at the inner and upper part of the foot, sloughed, and amputation was at length deemed necessary. (Alai. Chir. T. 4, p. 400.) In another case, re- corded by Mr. Hey, pressure was made with a tight bandage on the prominence of the astraga- lus, and the soft parts over it became gangren- ous; yet, a recovery followed without amputa- tion, all the projecting portion of the astragalus having gradually come away in fragments. (fi/ei/s Pract. Ohs. p. 384, Ed. 2.) In an instance, re- cently published by Dupuytren, a person dislo- cated the astragalus by alighting with great vio- lence upon the heel, the bone being driven for- wards by the pressure, which it had sustained be- tween the tibia and os calcis, so as to form a pro- tuberance under the skin of the instep. As the reduction was found impracticable, a cut was made down to the displaced bone, with the intention of extracting it; but, Dupuytren found, that he could not remove it so readily as he expected ; nur yet could he replace it; and, it was not till after a tedious operation, that he succeeded in taking it away. The difficulty arose from the upper surface of the bone being turned down- wards, while the back projection of what was naturally the lower part of it took hold of the tibia in the manner of a hook. (Annuuire Med Chir. des Hopitaux de Finis, 1819, p. 28.) In another modern valuable publication, two cases of dislocation of the astragalus are re- lated. One was a simple luxation of the as- tragalus inwards, the os calcis, and rest of the foot being thrown outwards. The reduction was easily performed by fixing the knee, then ex- tending the foot gently and directly from the leg, by laying hold of the heel with one hand, and placing the other on the dorsum of the foot; and lastly, by pressing the foot inwards, whilst counterpressure was made with the knee upon the opposite side of the lower extremity of the tibia. The other instance, alluded to, was a compound luxation, in which the astra- galus was displaced outwards, and the other tar- sal bones thrown inwards. Reduction was ac- complished first by bending the leg so as to relax the muscles, and then by extending the foot, as above explained, and rotating it outwards. (A. Cu-'pm, Surgical Essays, Putt 2, />• 207.) By heavy weights falling upon the foot, a dis- location is sometimes produced ai the transverse joint between the astragalus and os calcis behind, and the os naviculare und os euboides in front.. Mr. A. Cooper lias twice seon the os cunci- fortnc internum dislocated, and, in both cases, the