LITHOTOMY. “89 latimr in a certain degreee the orifice of the hlathler, and cervix of the urethra, the dilatation of those parts, however moderate, being always necessary even where the calculus is of middling size. He states, that, in the adult, the orifice of the bladder dilates almost spontaneously to the diameter of five lines; and he adds, that the lateral incision, within proper limits, divides the body and base of the prostate gland to the depth of four, or, at most, five lines, forming with the five, to which the orifice of the bladder naturally yields, an aperture of ten lines. But, says Scarpa, in an adult, a stone of ordinary size and oval figure is sixteen lines in the small diame- ter, to which must be added the thickness of the blades of the forceps : consequently', even after the incision has been made with the most scru- pulous exactness, the stone, though of mode- rate size, cannot pass out of the bladder, unless the dilatation of the base of the gland and orifice of the bladder be carried to the extent of nearly eight lines, bey'ond the size of the aperture made with the knife. But, says Scarpa, if, in order to avoid distending the parts to the extent of eight lines, the base of the prostate gland, together with the orifice of the bladder, and a part of its fundus, be divided to a depth equivalent to it, the event would necessarily be an effusion of urine into the cellular membrane, between the rectum and bladder, and consequently suppu- ration, gangrene, fstulce, and other serious evils. (Page 4, 5.) According to Scarpa, the apex of the prostate gland forms the greatest resistance to the intro- duction of the forceps and the extraction of the stone, and, therefore, ought to be completely di- vided; (p. 7.) but, he contends, that two, and sometimes three, lines of the substance of the base of the gland, should be left undivided; which, he asserts, is a matter of great importance, because the untouched portion, around the orifice of the bladder, prevents the effusion of urine, and the formation of gangrene, or fistuloe, be- tween that part and the rectum. (.P.22.) After this statement of one of the great prin- ciples, which Scarpa wishes to be observed in the performance of the lateral operation, a question, or two, naturally arise. Are we then to con- clude, that the plan of making a free and direct incision into the bladder ought to be abandoned? Must we forget, that it is this method, which has answered so well in the hands of Cheselden and the several renowned lithotemists already enu- merated ? And must we believe, that the advice, delivered upon this point by Bertrandi, Desault, Mr. John Bell, and all the best modern surgeons ■n this country, is founded only upon a caprici- ous partiality to the free use of cutting instru- ments? Earnestly as I respect the names of a Callisen, and a Scarpa, their authority cannot influence me further, than I find it coincide with the dic- tates of experience,—the great arbitrator of every disputed point in practice. We have seen, that an apprehension of effusion of urine, gangrene, fistulie, &c. is the only reason assigned by Scarpa for his aversion to making a complete division of the side of the prostate gland, and orifice of the bladder. But, I would inquire, do we find extravasation of the urine, between the rectum and bladder, and gangrene, and fistulas, so frequent after lithotomy in England, as to render it probable, that these ill consequences can ever proceed from our usual mode of divid- ing completely, not only the side of the prostate gland, but also the adjoining part of the blad- der? Are such bad effects so often experienced in this country, as to constitute a material source of uneasiness in the mind of a surgeon about to undertake lithotomy? Do they form a substan- tial reason for abandoning the maxim of always endeavouring, as far as circumstances will allow, to make an incision of sufficient size for the easy removal of the calculus? And, would not Scarpa’s method of stretching and dilating the wound, in order to get the stone out of the bladder, often dangerously prolong the operation; lead to much mischief from the repeated use of the forceps ; cause serious contusion and lacerations of the parts; and, for all these reasons, render inflammation of the bladder and peritoneum very likely to follow? In the course of the twenty-four years, that I have been in the profession of surgery, I have seen the lateral operation performed an immense number of times, either with various kinds of gorgets, beaked knives, the lithotome cache, or common scalpels. In all these examples, the avowed intention of the surgeon was to make a free opening into the bladder. I do not mean, however, to say, that this was always actually accomplished, since the bad construction of the instruments employed, and other causes, some- times frustrated the wise design of the operator. But, what was the consequence? Generally speaking, those surgeons who made only a small incision into the bladder, and kept their patients a long while upon the operating table, ere they succeeded in getting out the stone, by the re- peated and forcible use of the forceps, had the mortification to see very few of their patients re- cover ; a large proportion of them being carried off by peritonitis, on the third, or fourth day, after the operation. On the contrary, when the incision was ample and direct, so that the calculus could be easily and gently removed, the patients were almost always saved. During the first six or seven years of the long time during which I have enjoyed frequent opportunities of seeing lithotomy performed in St. Bartholomew s Hospital, gorgets were inva- riably used, most of which instruments made an insufficient opening. The consequence was, that many of the patients were detained a long while upon the operating table, before the stone could be extracted, and some considerable num- bers were lost by peritonitis. Of late years, however, in the same institution, common scal- pels and beaked knives have been often used; a freer opening has been generally made; and the proportion of deaths from peritonitis is strikingly lessened. • The following observation, made by Mr. Mar- tineau, is also worthy of particular attention : — “ In the first years of my practice,” says he, “ I was not very successful; and often witnessing many untoward circumstances in myself and others, which appeared to arise from the use of the cutting gorget, 1 determined to lay that in-