1198 WOUNDS. degree of inflammation in the chest. Hence, lie prefers, simply cutting the artery across, so as to allow it to retract, and if this plan fail he recommends the wound to be closed. Should the blood find its way into the chest, it is true, the consequences will be serious, but not fatal; and if the symptoms require it, the operation of empyema may afterwards be done. A small quantity of etl’used blood, however, may be ab- sorbed, and no such proceeding be requisite. (.Manualc di Chirurgia, p. 58—59.) Dr. Hennen conceives, that whenever the tenaculum can be used for an injured intercostal artery, the practice should be adopted. He states, that cases are reported, in which the vessel was thus secured; but that he has never seen the method adopted himself. “ Unfortunately (says he), we but too often are disappointed in finding the source of the hemorrhage, and here judicious pressure is our only resource. In some very slight cases, I have used the graduated comp.-ess with success; but, if the sloughing is extensive, nothing but the finger of an assistant, relieved as often as occasion may require, and pressure direct upon a compress placed along the course of the vessel, or so disposed as to operate upon its bleeding orifice, will be of any avail. (.Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 377.) 3. The protrusion of a portion of the lungs, in consequence of wounds penetrating the chest, is a very unusual case : but there are some in- stances recorded by writers ; and one case I at- tended myself after the battle of Waterloo. Schenekius relates an example, taken from Rolandus. The latter was called to a man, who had been wounded in the thorax, six days before. A portion of the lungs protruded in a state of mortification. Rolandus extirpated it, and the patient soon recovered. Tulpius has recorded a similar fact. A man received an extensive wound, just below his left nipple. His naturally gay disposition, however, led him to neglect the injury; and on the third dayr, a piece of the lungs, three inches in length, proT truded. The patient went to Amsterdam, whence he was distant two days’ journey, for the purpose of receiving succour in one of the hospitals of that city. The protruded piece of lung, which was already mortifying, was tied, and cut off with scissars. It weighed three ounces. The wound healed in a fortnight, and the patient ex- perienced no complaint afterwards, except a slight cough, with which he was occasionally troubled. He survived the accident six years, leading a wan- dering, drunken life. After death, nothing par- ticular was observed in the thorax, except that the lungs had become adherent to the pleura, in the situation of the wound. Hildanus relates another case- a man was wounded with a knife, between the fifth and sixth ribs, near the sternum. As a piece of lung protruded through the open- ing, and bad a livid colour, it was extirpated with the actual cautery. The wound was then dilated, and the ribs kept apart, with a wooden wedge, under which plan, the portion of lung, girt by the opening, shrunk within the chest. The patient was soon completely well. A fourth example of a protrusion of a piece of lung through a wound in the thorax, is among i. l.,- 'Thr* Rf»rvnnt of a sea-faring man was wounded in the anteriot and inferior part of the chest, and was imme- diately attended by a surgeon who mistook the protruded piece of lung, for a portion of omen- tum, and applied a tight ligature round it. Ruysch, who was consulted, soon detected the mistake, which had been made, but he delivered his opinion, that the wound would heal very well, as soon as the tied piece of lung was detached. The event justified his prognosis, and the patient recovered. When the protruded portion of lung is sound, the reduction ought to be made, without the least delay. It should be done on the same prin- ciples, as those, on which protruded pieces of in- testine, or omentum, are reduced. (See Wounds of the Abdomen.) A recurrence of the accident is to be prevented by closing the wound, and placing a compress over it. But, when the piece of lung is already in a mortified state, in conse- quence of the constriction, which it has suffered, or when its large size prevents reduction, Saba- tier is of opinion, that the only- resource is to extirpate the part, after applying a ligature round its base. If the latter step were not taken, a dangerous hemorrhage might follow-, or even an extravasation in the thorax. (Medicine Opera- toire, Tom. 2, p. 224.) However, the practice recommended by- Sabatier, appears questionable in the instance of mortification, because the dead part will naturally be thrown off by a spontaneous process; and, when the w-ound is too small to allow the part to be returned, its dilatation might be more advisable t.ian the removal of a consi- derable portion, or even any-, of the lung. After the battle of Waterloo, I had a patient with a protrusion of a piece of lung, four or five inches in length. The part was much bruised, and could not be easily- reduced. I therefore applied a ligature round its base, and cut it off. Previously-, however, I made an incision in it, in order to ascertain wdiether it would bleed freely, which being the case, induced me to use a ligature. I w-as afterwards informed by my friend Mr. Collier, that the man died. 4, Emphysema is another symptom, with which penetrating w-ounds of the chest are frequently complicated, especially-, when they- are small, and indirect. When such wounds are small, and not straight in their course; when their track is ren- dered impervious either by- change in the situa- tion of the muscles, the swelling of the parts, clots of blood, or any extraneous substances; air may insinuate itself into the cellular substance, so as to cause a great deal of tumor and distention. Emphysema is easily distinguishable by the tume- faction of the part affected, without any- pain, or change of colour in the skin, and by the crepita- tion, which is perceptible, on pressing the air from one part of the cellular substance into another. Emphysema may take place, where the lungs are not wounded, but in this case, it can never be of much extent. Here the emphy- sematous swelling is caused by the air, which insinuates itself into the cavity- of the thorax through the wound, during the first inspirations, which follow the accident, and the same air is expelled in the subsequent acts of expiration. But when the lungs arc wounded, the emphysema ni Ups from the escape of air from those organs,