DISLOCATION. 373 lageouslv employed, when a primitive luxation downward is quite recent, and when theheadot the bone is very near its cavity. Then the inferior costa of the scapula presents an inclined plane, alorn^ which the end of the bone can easily glide, when propelled by any kind of external force. No doubt, it is to this tendency of the head of the bone to be replaced, that we must attribute the success, certainly exaggerated, but in part real, on which the inventor of such machines endeavours to establish the superiority of his plan. But, in this case, it is useless to multiply artificial powers, .when natural means suffice, and when we can accomplish the reduction with the bands more effectually, because we can vary the motions with more precision. Thus Desault very often employed the follow- ing method with great success. The patient being seated upon a chair of moderate height, he took hold of the hand on the affected side, placed it between his knees, which he moved downward and backward, in order to make the extension and disengage the bead of the bone, while an assistant held back the trunk to effect the counter-extension. This was sometimes ex- ecuted by the weight of the body, and effort of the patient. At the same time, the surgeon’s hands being applied to the arm, in such a way, that the four fingers of each were put in the hol- low of the axilla, and the thumbs on the outer part of the arm, pushed upward, and a liitle outward, the head of the humerus, which usually returned with ease into its natural cavity. Petit explains this plan, though not as here described, but complicated with the use of a napkin, passed under the patient’s axilla, and over the surgebn’s neck, who contributes to raise the dislocated end of the bone, by lifting up his head. This accessory'method was considered by Desault as useless and little methodical, prevent- ing all variation in the direction of the impulse given to the head of the bone. The hands alone are always sufficient, and a multitude of instances attest the efficacy of this method, employed in Desault’s way. When the luxation downward was very re- I cent, Desault in two, or three times, succeeded in reducing it, by a still more simple process. Marie-Louise Favert fell in going down stairs, dislocated her arm downward, and was conveyed, immediately after the accident, to the Hotel- Dieu. Desault having recognized the disorder, placed his left hand under the axilla, to serve as a fulcrum, while with the right, applied to the lower and outer part of the arm, he depressed the humerus towards the trunk, and at the same tinje raised the upper part of the bone. The head of the humerus, directed upward and outward by this double motion, returned into the glenoid ca- vity, without the least resistance. The arm was placed in a sling for two days, and, on the fourth, the patient resumed her wonted labour. Dislocations downward are not the only ones, •o which the first of the above simple plans js ipplicablc. Primitive luxations inward some- imes yield to its adoption. Two examples of 5n,c^ suc*ess are to be found jn the Journal de Chirurgie. deduction by extension alone. For the most part, however, the preceding methods are inadequate, and extension must be made, which, when it is employed alone, forms a second sort of means for reducing dislocations of the shoulder. In ordinary cases of dislocation downward and forward, Celsus recommends simple extension. Albucasis was acquainted with no other mode. Douey, Douglas, and Heister, among the moderns, have absolutely rejected the use of machines, as always useless, and fre- quently daDgerous. Lastly, Dapoui and Fabre examined with great exactness the process of extension, pointed out the manner of rendering it most advantageous in all cases, by the proper application of the extending force ; and, in the dislocation of the humerus in particular, they ob- viated the inconvenience of pulleys, placed under the arm-pit on the affected side, and proved that the motion, vulgarly termed, coaptation, was of no utility. In order to reduce a dislocation of the hu- merus, it is necessary to have a sufficient num- ber of assistants, so as to increase the power ac- cording to the resistance which is to be over- come. But, two are usually sufficient for making the extension : in doing which, one should em- ploy a linen pad, of sufficient thickness to pro- ject above the level of the pectoralis major, and latissimus dorsi. There must also be two band- ages ; one made of linen, several times doubled, four inches wide, and eight or nine feet long; the other a towel, folded in the same way, but not always wanted. The patient may either sit in a chair of mo- derate height, or lie down upon a table, which is firmly fixed, and covered with a .mattress. Desault, for a long while, used to put the patient in the first of these positions, which, indeed, is generally preferred. In it the arm may be advantageously drawn in a transverse direction; but if, as is often the case, there be occasion to make extension upward or down- ward, the assistant is then obliged to rise up, and depress himself, has not sufficient power, finds himself obstructed, and cannot vary, at the pleasure of the surgeon, the direction in which the arm is to be extended. This position is also much more fatiguing to the patient, than one in which the trunk is equally supported upon a horizontal plane. Hence, Desault, in the latter years of his practice, abandoned the first position, and invariably adopted the last. The patient being put in the proper position, the linen compress is applied to the axilla, on the sjde affected, and upon this compress the middle of the first extending bandage is placed, the two heads of which ascend obliquely before and be- hind the chest, meet each other at the top of the sound shoulder, and are held there by an assistant, so as to fix the trunk, and make the counter-ex- tension. The action of this bandage does not affect the margin of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, in consequence of the pad pro- jecting higher than them. If this were not at- tended to, these muscles being drawn upward, would pull the humerus in this direction, and thus destroy the effect of the extension, which is to be made in the following manner: — Two assistants take hold of the forearm, above the wrist; or else the towel, doubled severul times, is to be applied to this part. The two ends are to be twisted together, and held by one or twp