155 ANEURISM. consequent effusion of blood into the cellular substance. The effect is the same, whether from an internal morbid affection, capable of ulcerat- ing the internal and fibrous coats of the artery, the blood be effused into the neighbouring cel- lular sheath surrounding the artery, which it ruses after the manner of an aneurismal sac; or, the wound of the integuments having closed, the jlood issue from the artery, and be diffused in he surrounding parts. The cellular substance, an the outside of the wounded vessel, is first in- octed, as in ecchymosis; the blood then dis- :ends it, and elevates it in the form of a tumor, md, the cellular divisions being destroyed, eon- /erts it at last into a firm capsule, or aneurismal . >ac. (Scarpa, p. 167.) The circumscribed or the diffused nature of he aneurism, and the rapidity or slowness of its ormation, depend on the greater or less resist- mce to the impetus of the blood, during the time : >f its effusion, by the interstices of the cellular ubstance surrounding the artery, and by the li- ; jamentous fasciae and aponeuroses, lying over he sac. The aponeurosis of the biceps muscle, ieing only half an inch broad, and situated lower han the common place for bleeding, cannot, at : east in most cases, materially strengthen the i ellular substance surrounding the artery, as is • ommonly supposed. (Scarpa, p. 168—170.) This author refers the greatest resistance to the intermuscular ligament, which after having co- t-ered the body of the biceps muscle extends over I. le whole course of the humeral artery, and is ! nplanted into the internal condyle. This liga- er.tous expausion has a triangular shape, the fuse of which extends from the tendon of the ceps, to the internal condyle, while the apex ■aches upward along the inner side of the hu- ierus towards the axilla, in the course of the ar- ry. The humeral artery and median nerve, 'pt in their situation by the cellular sheath and fis ligamentous expansion, run in the furrow, irmed between it and the internal margin of le biceps. (Scarpa, 171.) This author anato- mically explains many circumstances relative to ic diffusion, circumscription, shape, &c. of bra- lial aneurisms, from this intermuscular ligament, /hile aneurisms, from an internal cause, are not lfrequent in the aorta, thigh, and ham, they are ‘ry rare in the brachial artery; though a few tch instances are recorded. (S arpu, 174. Pel- t'ni’i Clinique Cbir. T. 2, p. 4.) 1 he mode of distinguishing a wound of the achial artery, in attempting to bleed, and the ethod of trying to effect a cure by pressure, are ■scribed in the article Heinorvlwne. And was the first, who tied the brachial ar- ; >7, f°r the cure of the aneurism at the bepd of e arm, in the same way that Hunter did the moral, for the cure of aneurisms in the ham, z. with one ligature above the tumor, without alcing any incision upon, or into, the sac itself. IThe operation is performed as follows:—the rgeon having traced the course of the brachial tery, and felt its pulsations above the aneurism, • may either cut down to the vessel immed ove the tumor, or much higher in the ace betwen the origins of the superior an rior ^'lateral arteries. The integument be divided in the course of the artery, am -■ cellular sheath, for the space of abou inches and a half. The surgeon now introducing his left fore-finger to the bottom of the wound, will feel the denuded vessel, and, if it is not suf- ficiently bare, lie must divide the parts which still cover it, observing to introduce the edge of the knife, on the side next to the internal margin of the biceps, to avoid dividing any of the numerous muscular branches, which go off from the oppo- site side of the artery. He is then to insulate, with the point of his finger, the trunk of the ves- sel, alone if he can, or together with the median nerve and vein, and raise it a little from the bot- tom of the wound. He is to separate the me- dian nerve and vein, for a small space from the artery, and with an eyed needle is to pass a liga- ture under the latter, and then tie it with a sim- ple knot. In the operation, it should always be recol- lected, that the median nerve lies on the inside of the artery, and, therefore, that the instrument, used for putting the ligature under the vessel, should be passed from within outwards, by which means the inclusion of the nerve may be most easily avoided. (Boyer, Trade des MuLudies Chi- rurpicnles, #c. T. 2, p. 193.) The operation is well described by Mr. Hodg- son : “ The surgeon divides the integuments along the ulnar margin of the biceps muscle, by an incision two inches and a half in length. The thin fascia, which surrounds the arm, will thus be exposed, and must be cautiously divided in the direction of the external wound. The artery lies immediately under the fascia, close to the margin of the biceps. The median nerve is situated on the ulnar side of the artery, which lies between its two venm comites. The internal cutaneous nerve is also situated under the fascia in the middle of the arm, and lies on the ulnar edge of the median nerve. The cellular membrane, which connects these parts, is to be divided, until the coats of the artery are fairly exposed. This part of the operation will be effected with facility, if an assistant compress the artery above the wound, so as to stop the circulation through it, and render it in some degree flaccid. The point of an aneurismal needle is then to be introduced close to the ulnar, and brought out on the radial side of the artery, so as to avoid including the median nerve, or the veins which accompany the artery.” (See Hoagson's!rcutisc on Diseases of the Annies, &;c. p. 3.91.) Whoever, after the above directions, says Scarpa, shall have the treatment of a circum- scribed aneurism in the bend of the arm, will no longer, it is to be hoped, follow the method of those, who, supposing the tumor to be formed by the dilatation of the artery, used first to divide the integuments over the tumor, insulated the sac, and sought for the vessel above and below the aneurism, in order to tie it in two places; and then endeavoured to make the sac slough away. The operation is now reduced to the greatest simplicity, viz. tying the artery merely above the tumor. (See Scarpa, p. 358, .159.) When the aneurism is dijiused, and accom- panied with violent inflammation and swelling of the whole arm, from the excessive distention of the clots of effused blood, Scarpa recommends the old operation of opening the tumor, and tying the artery at the bottom of the sac, above and below the wound made by the lancet. In this - —