478 FRACTURES. inward, the compresses should be placed on the anterior and posterior part of the bone. As a roller is apt to become slack, many surgeons, with good reason, prefer a piece of strong linen, large enough to surround the chest, and laced with pack-thread, so as to compress the ribs in the due degree. When there is reason from the symptoms to think the lungs injured, or disposed to inflame, copious and repeated bleedings should be prac- tised. Indeed, as peripneumony is always liable to succeed the accident, and is a most dangerous occurrence, every person free from debility, either having a broken rib, or supposed to have such, should always be bled in the first instance. The spermaceti mixture, with opium, is an ex- cellent medicine for appeasing any cough, which may disturb the fracture, and give the patient infinite pain. FRACTURES OF THE SACRUM. Although more superficial, than the other bones of the pelvis, the sacrum is less frequently frac- tured; a fact, explicable, as Boyer has remarked, by its thickness, its spongy texture, and the ad- vantageous way in which it supports the weight and efforts of the whole trunk. For the sacrum to be broken, the violence must be very great, like that resulting from the fall of a very heavy body, or the passage of a carriage wheel on the convex side of the bone, or a fall, from a great height on that part. On the other hand, frac- tures of the sacrum, when they do happen, are more serious, than those of the ossa innominata, because, in addition to the great degree of con- tusion and laceration, with which they in com- mon with the latter cases are complicated, there is almost always great damage done to the sacral nerves ; a kind of injury, which may have fatal consequences. Hence, retention of urine, in- ability to retain this fluid, involuntary discharge of the feces, paralysis of the lower extremities, &c. Another principal danger also depends upon the injury, which the pelvic viscera pnay have suffered from the same violence, which broke the bone. When the fracture is situated at the upper part of the sacrum, which seldom happens on account of the thickness of the bone in that situation, there is no displacement, unless the bone is smashed, and the fragments are driven inwards by the same force, which produced the fracture, a case, which always implies severe in- jury of the external and internal soft parts. But, when the fracture occupies the lower portion of the bone, where it is less thick, the inferior fragment may be displaced inwards, towards the rectum. And, as Boyer observes, fractures of the higher part of the bone are not in general easily detected. (Truite des Mai. dm. T. 3, p. 152.) When the violence has been such as to make it probable, that it has extended its effects to the pelvic viscera, every means in the power of art must be adopted for the prevention of inflamma- tion. In particular, copious bleeding should be practised, and, if necessary, repeated. Leeches should also be applied to the vicinity of the sacrum, and the parts kept cool with the lotio plumbi acctatis. Any difficulty cither in the expulsion, or retention of the urine and feces, will likewise claim immediate and constant attention. (See Urine, Retention of; Inconti- nence of, 6fc.) Witli regard to the particular means for promoting the union of the fractured sacrum, quietude is the most important, and, after the risk of inflammation is over, all that can be done is to apply a piece of the emplas- trum saponis to the part, and put a roller round the pelvis, or a T bandage. FRACTURES OF THE OS COCCVGIS. Though much slighter than the sacrum, it is less frequently broken, because less exposed to external force, and is capable of a degree of motion, by which it eludes the effect of violence. But, in elderly persons, in whom the different pieces of the os coecygis are connected by anchylosis, a fall on the buttock may fracture this bone. The accident is known by the moveableness of the fragments, and the acute pain produced when the thighs are moved, the fragments being then disturbed by the action of the glutei muscles, some of whose fibres are attached to them. (Bnytr, T. 3, p. 160.) The treatment of fractures of the os coccygis consists in enjoining quietude, employing discuti- ent, or emollient applications, according to the par- ticular state of the soft parts, and taking blood away from the patient; adopting the antiphlo- gistic regimen, and enjoining the patient to avoid lying on his back, or sitting down. He should also avoid walking, so as to put the glutei muscles into action, which would disturb the broken bone. All formal attempts at re- duction are not only useless in respect to the fracture, but highly injurious to the soft parts, which are not in a state to bear handling without ill effects. FRACTURES OF THE OSSA INNOMINATA. The situation and shape of the ossa innominata, and the thickness of the soft parts by which they are covered, explain why they are but seldom fractured. When such accidents happen, they are generally produced by the passage of heavy carriage wheels, over the pelvis, falls from great heights, the kick of a horse, &c. and are always attended with considerable contusion of the ex- ternal soft parts, and sometimes with great in- jury of the pelvic viscera. The anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium is sometimes broken off, by the kick of a horse. ( Royer.) The two ossa innominata may be broken together; but commonly only one of them is thus injured. Most frequently, the fracture takes place in the upper expanded portion of the bone, known under the name of the ilium, though some- times it happens either in the ischium, or the os pubis. The solution of continuity may be li- mited to one part of the bone, or extend to several parts of it; and there may be a greater or lesser number of fragments, and these attended, or not, with displacement. In many instances, in which the pelvis has been violently jambed between two bodies, or run over by a heavy car- riage, the bones of the pelvis, besides being frac- tured, are dislocated, some interesting examples of which accident have been recently published. (A. Cooper’s Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 49, &c.)