178 ANT exists an inflammation of a viscus of high import- ance in the system, antimony should be exhibited, and, in general, the antimonial powder is as eli- gible a prescription as any. For an adult, from two to five grains may be ordered, and the dose, it requisite, may be repeated, three or four times a day. In order to increase its action on the bowels, it is frequently conjoined with calomel, in the form of pills. ANTIMONIUM MURIATUM. This has often been named, butter of antimony, and is em- ployed in surgery as a caustic. ANTIMONIUM TARTARIZATUM, (Emetic Tartar.) This medicine is well known as the most common emetic. For this purpose, it may be given in either of the following ways, as the indications of the case may demand. {^/. Antimonii Tart. gr. ij. Aq. distil, ^iv. Misce et cola. Dosis^jij. pro emetico; vel ^ss quadrante quoque horae, donee supervenerit vomitus. If tartarised antimony be exhibited merely to excite a diaphoroesis, half an ounce, or one table spoon- ful, of the above mixture is to be given once every six hours. ANTRUM, Diseases of. This cavity is liable to a variety of diseases. Sometimes its membran- ous lining inflames, and secretes an extraordinary quantity of mucus, or pus ; at other times, in consequence of inflammation, or other causes, it is the seat of various excrescences, polypi, and fungi. Fven the bony parietes of the antrum are occasionally affected with exostosis, or caries. Sometimes it contains extraneous bodies ; and, it is even asserted, that insects may be gene- rated there, and cause, for many years, very af- flicting pains. COLI.ECTIOXS OF MUCUS AXD PUS. Inflammation of the membranous lining of the antrum sometimes produces an extraordinary se- cretion of mucus within that cavity, and the col- lected fluid being confined, the bony parietes of the cavity become expanded in a surprising degree. This disease, says Boyer, is sometimes ascribed to a blow on the cheek, to caries of the teeth, or theprojection ofoneof their fangs into the antrum. But, in genera1, the case takes place unpreceded by any of these causes, and without there being the least ground for suspecting what has given rise to the disorder. It is remarked, however, that collections of mucus within the antrum are mostfrequent in young subjects: of three patients, seen by Boyer, the eldest was not more than twenty. ( 7 rat’d des Mai. Chir. 7 .6, p. 139.) Whether the obliteration of the duct leading to the nose be a cause or only an effect of the dis- ease, is, as Mr. Hunter observes, not easily de- termined ; but, from some of the symptoms, there is great reason to suppose it an attendant. “ If it be a cause, we may suppose, that the na- tural mucus of these cavities, accumulating, irritates, and produces inflammation for its own exit; in the same manner, as an obstruction to the passage of the tears through the ductus ad nasum produces an abscess of the lachrymal sac.” f Sec Hnnbv’s Natural Hut. of the Teeth,p 174, Ed. 3.) The most interesting example of the effects of the lodgment of mucus in the an- trum is that recorded by Dubois: a boy, between seven and eight years of age, was observed to have at the base of the ascending process of the ANT upper jaw bone, on the left side, a small, very- hard tumor, of the size of a nut. As it gave no pain, and did not appear to increase, his pa- rents did not give themselves any concern about it. When he was about sixteen, however, the swelling began to increase, and to be somewhat painful. Before he was eighteen, its augmenta- tion was so considerable, that the floor of the orbit was raised up by it: the eye thrust upwards: the palpebrae very much closed ; the arch of the palate pushed down in the form of a tumor; and the nostril almost effaced. Below the orbit, the cheek made a considerable prominence; while the nose was thrown towards the opposite side of the face, and the skin at the upper part of the tumor, below the lower eyelid, was of a purple red colour, and threatening to burst. The upper lip was drawn upwards, and behind it, all the gums on the left side were observed to pro- ject much further, than those on the opposite side of the face, and at this point alone the thinness of the bony parietes of the antrum was perceptible. The patient spoke, and breathed with great diffi- culty ; he slept uneasily, and his mastication was painful. The case was at first supposed by Du- bois, Sabatier, Pelletan, and Boyer, to be a fun- gus of the antrum, and an operation was consi- dered advisable. In proceeding to this measure, the first thing, which attracted the notice of Dubois, was a sort of fluctuation in the situation of the gum, behind the upper lip ; a circumstance which led him to give up the idea of the case be- ing a fungus, though he expected that, on mak- ing an opening merely a small quantity of ichor- ous matter would escape, affording no kind of information. In this place, however, he deter- mined to make an incision, along the alveolary process, whereby a large quantity of a glutinous substance, like lymph, or what is found in cases of ranula, was discharged. A probe was now in- troduced, with which Dubois could feel a cavity equal in extent to the forepart of the tumor, and in moving the instrument about, with the view of learning, whether any fungus was present, it struck against a hard substance, which felt like one of the incisor teeth, near the opening that had been made. Five days after this first operation, Dubois extracted two incisors and one grinder, and then removed the corresponding part of the alveolar}' process. As the hemorrhage was profuse, the wound was now filled with dressings, which in two days came away, and enabled Dubois to see with facility all the interior of the cavity. At its upper part, he perceived a white speck, which he supposed was pus, but on touching it with a probe, it turned out to be a tooth, which was then extracted, in doing which some force was requisite. The rest of the treat- ment merely consisted in injecting lotions into the cavity, and applying common dressings. In about six wreeks, all the hollow disappeared ; but the swelling of the cheek, and palate, and the displacement of the nose, still continued. In the course of another year and a half, however, every vestige of deformity was entirely removed. (Du- Iwis Ballet in ilc la "f ’acuUe dc Mid. No. 8.) With respect to the treatment of collections of mucus in the antrum, by means of injections, thrown into that cavity through the natural open- ing in it, while the head is inclined to the oppo- site side, for the purpose of facilitating the escape