CESAREAN OPERATION. 263 nee. (See Med. and Physical Jaunt. Vol. 6.) Vs l have already explained, the ill success of lie C.esareati Operation in England has been uch, that not a single case has yet happened, in vhich the life of the mother has been preserved fter the child was truly extracted from the womb v incision. The probable reason of this cir- iimstance I have also noticed. Abroad, how- ver, tlie success of the practice forms quite a mtrast, to what has ooeurred in this country, ie operation having been often done so as to save .2 lives both of the mother and child, of which i interesting example was recently published by *r. Locher, of Zurich. (See Med. Cltir. Trans, ol. 9, 11.) And, in Vol. II of the same ork, may be read a case, in which Dr. Meyer, ' Minden, lately saved a woman by the opera- on, but the foetus was dead. Likewise an ex- nple, in which Dr. Spitzbarth, in 1819, pre- rved the lives both of the infant and mother; d another interesting relation of two Ccesarean • peratlons performed by Lorinser, on a woman ill living at Nimes, in Bohemia. (See also Sic- Id's Journ. f ur Geburtshnlfc, <S'c* Vol. .‘5. Part Frunkf. 181.9.) In I SOI, Dr. Schlegel, of erseburg, likewise operated on a woman, who covered, notwithstanding the bowels became -angulated, and she is still living, with a hernia the situation of the wound. (Schweighciitscr ■chiv. dcs Accouchemens, p. 135, 8m. Paris, 97.) OF OFJCB.ATINC, WHEN THE FCETUS IS EXTKA- UTERINE. 1 Delivery cannot possibly happen in the ordi- •y way, when the foetus is situated in the ova- s, or Fallopian tube, or in the cavity of the pe- meum. However, there are many instances orded of ventral pregnancies, which the mo- ;rs survived, the dead putrified foetus having ;n discharged, either out of an abscess, or ough the rectum. Practitioners are occasionally called upon to do ery similar operation to the Cmsarean, when child has passed into the cavity of the perito- im, in consequence of the rupture of the ute- . Unfortunately, such an accident is not un- nmon, and though the causes of it may not be ious, nothing is more certain, than that the us itself is entirely passive, and has no share producing the misfortune. The symptoms, by ch the event can be known, are not always y of comprehension. When, however, the as have been violent; when the last, after lg excessively severe, has been followed by^ J of calm ; when the countenance loses its co- r, the pulse grows weak, and the extremities ome cold and covered with a cold sweat; :n the abdomen is generally flat and only dally affected with a swelling, occasioned by foetus, which either continues to move, or is d and motionless; when the patient com- ns of a moderate degree of heat about the y; and, lastly, when the child shrinks from the ch of the accoucheur; it is manifest that the rus is lacerated. If the child has passed com- •ely into the abdomen, gastrotomy is the only mrce. Should a part of it, however, yet rc- n in the uterus, it may be extracted, with the aid of the forceps, if the head presents, or by the feet, provided only the upper part of the bod}’ be in the abdomen. Baudeloquc quotes three instances of gastro- totny, performed on account of the rupture of the uterus. The first is that inserted by Thibaud Dubois in the Journal de Mcdecine for May, 17(10. Every preparation was made for a natu- ral labour, when, after excessively violent pains about the upper and left part of the uterus, the child disappeared. Thibaud opened the abdo- men, though not till some hours after the acci- dent. The infant was dead; but, the mother experienced no ill effects after the operation, ex- cept such as are usual after ordinary labours. The second and third cases were communi- cated to the French Academy of Surgery in 1775, by Lambron, a surgeon of Orleans. He prac- tised the operation twice, on the same woman, with success. In the first instance, he operated eighteen hours after the rupture of the uterus. The child was dead. An ill-conditioned abscess formed near the wound ; but, the patient got quite well in the course of six weeks She was pregnant again the fHip wing year, and the ute- rus was once more ruptured. Lambron new had recourse to the operation without delay. The child betrayed some signs of life; but, soon died. The mother not only survived ; but, after- wards became pregnant again, and had a favour- able delivery. In a foregoing column, I have adverted to the case, in which Dr. Locher, of Zurich, saved both the mother and child by the Caesarean Opera- tion, performed in the linea alba. After her re- covery, a small point of the wound, not exceed- ing two or three lines in length and breadth, re- quired a long time to be quite healed, though no particular inconvenience was experienced from it. Some time afterwards, the cicatrix gave way again, and a portion of omentum protruded, which was reduced, when a piece of bowel came out, and was also returned. The edges of the wound were then brought together; but a small super- ficial ulcer continued open, in spite of every ef- fort to close it. In 1818, the year following that, in which the Caesarean Operation had been per- formed upon her, she became pregnant again, and the chief particularity, which happened dur- ing gestation, was an increase in the size of the preceding ulcer, which became three inches in width. The sore, however, was covered with charpic, and the integuments well supported with adhesive plaster. On the 23d of Slay, she was seized with labour-pains ; and about seven in the evening, she complained all at once of a very acute pain, and at the same moment voided a considerable quantity of blood from the vagina. On examining by this passage, nothing was dis- covered ; but, when the hand was applied below the navel, in the line of the old wound, and under the ulcer, a circumscribed firm swelling was felt, caused by the child’s head, of which the sutures were plainly discernible. Dr. Locher naturally concluded, that the uterus had burst, so as to al- low the child to escape, and the hemorrhage was thus easily explained. A repetition ol the Cae- sarean Operation was deemed indispensable, I he place of the incision was determined by the round swelling, caused by the child’s head. An met-