891 OPHTHALMY. • in this ami otlier countries; and that, in gVj>t, several varieties of ophthalmy prevail, e preferred culling the disease the Epidemical I urulent Ophthalmy. On the other hand, Sir I T. Adams conceives, that it ought rather to be | lied Asiatic Ophthalmy, as recent investiga- I ms prove, that it prevails in the greater part of j sia, and was long ago described by Avicenna. Iracfc, Journ. dcr Chir. 1 B. p. 170.) ! That there has been long known in this coun- 1 y an infectious species of purulent ophthalmy i "nnot be doubted. The case, described by many i jrgeons, as proceeding from the sudden stop- s'! igeofgonorrhoea, or the inadvertent application gonorrhoeal matter.to the eyes, which disorder .11 be presently noticed, is certainly’ an infec- jus purulent ophthalmy. It is also admitted, that : resembles Egyptian ophthalmy, by the inten- ty and rapidity of its symptoms ; but the latter j tse is strongly characterized by the quickness i ith which it causes, especially in adults, opaci- es, or ulcerations of the cornea ; the long con- ; nued irritability of the eyes after the subsidence f inflammation; but, more particularly, its very ■factious nature, by which it spreads to an ex- ! mt, that has never been observed with regard ? any other species of purulent ophthalmy. \ 'here have been epidemic ophthalmies, of other inds, which have been known to affect the 1 reater part of the population of certain districts nd towns in England. The celebrated ophthal- ! ty, which happened at Newbury, in Berks, - j mie years ago, is an instance, that must be nown to every body. But I know of no puru- j nt inflammation of the eyes, which ever spread j a a great extent in England, before the return f our troops from Egypt. The reflections and observations of Mr. vI‘Gregor, as well as those of Br. Vetch, and )r. Edmondstone, I think, leave no doubt of two acts; first, that this ophthalmy was at all events i irought from Egypt; and, secondly, that it is in- ectious, but only capable of being comma ni- tj atedfrom one person to another by actual con- act of the discharge. “ If (says Dr. Vetch) my belief were entertained by the officers of the M British army, during the first expedition to j .Egypt, that the disease was contagious, it was of | i nature very vague and indefinite. Combined ■s its operations necessarily must be in that 1 ; -ountry with other exciting causes, there would > >e more difficulty in the first recognition of the act. But, the continuance of the complaint 1 vith the troops, after their departure from the ») .ountry, could scarcely fail to lead to the obvi- > >us conclusion of its possessing a power of pro- : i rogation. Before the disease reached this coun- ry, the opinion of its being contagious was idopted by many. Dr. Edmomtone, in the 1 iccount which he published of the disease, as it ippeared in the regiment, to which he was sur- n geon, alter its return to England, first made the n public acquainted with the fact of the disease I being communicable. In an account of the || Egyptian ophthalmia, as it appeared in this || country, printed in the early part of 1807, / fl first established, that the communication of the | disease was exclusively produced by the appli- I cation of the discharge from the eyes of the i d:sensed to those of the healthy." (Vetch on | Dhcascs of the Eye, p. 178.) The opinion that the disease is ever commu- nicated from one person to another, through the medium of the atmosphere, is at present nearly abandoned. During the whole time that Dr. Vetch had the management of the ophthal- mic hospitals, there never was an instance of any medical officer contracting the disease, although exposed to what might be supposed to be the greatest concentration of a'ny contagion that could arise in the worst stage of the complaint. Two orderlies only contracted the disease, and both in consequence of the accidental application of the virus. However, Sir W. Adams main- tains, that he has seen many eases, which prove, that the disorder, like small pox, may spread contagiously, without any kind of inoculation. (See Graefe's Journ. B. 1, p. 174.) That the disease may also be partly propagated by epidemic- causes in certain places, I think, as certain and clear, as that there must be a cause for the first commencement of the disorder in situations where infection by contact is out of the question. And, as Dr. Vetch has observed, “from what- ever cause inflammation of the conjunctiva may originate, when the action is of that nature, or degree of violence as to produce a puriform, or purulent discharge; the discharge, so produced, operates as an animal virus, when applied to the conjunctiva of a healthy eye. Considering the various modes, by which such a contact must inevitably occur in the usual relations of life, it must be obvious, that wherever ophthalmia pre- vails, whether it be the effect of local conditions of the soil, or of the atmosphere, naturally or artificially produced, this contagiouk effect must sooner or iatcr mix, or unite its operation with that of the more general and original one ; and hence, without regard to this property of the disease, its occurrence must often remain in- explicable, and at variance with the more ge- neral cause existing in external circumstances. And, further, as the disease, produced by infection, is of a nature more violent and malignant, than that produced by the impression of atmospheric causes, it will, in every instance of extensively prevailing ophthalmia, occasion two different forms of disease, which, as long as they are con- sidered as one and the same, will produce, ac- cording as the one or the other predominates, very discordant results.” (Vetch cn Diseases of the Eye, p. 175.) Mr. M‘Gregor relates three cases, which prove, that the matter, after its application, pro- duces its effects in a very short time. I shall only cite the following example:—On the 21st of October, 1809, about four o’clock, r. m. Nurse Flannelly, while syringing the eyes of a boy, let some of the lotion, which had already washed the diseased eyes, pass out of the syringe into her own right eye. She felt little or no smarting at the time ; but, towards nine o’clock the same evening, her right eye became red, and somewhat painful, and when she awoke next morning, her eyelids were swelled, there was a purulent discharge, pain, &c. (Op. cit. p. 51.) The late Mr. Ware, though he admitted, that the infection was brought into this country from Egypt by the troops, conceived that the same disease also sometimes arose from the matter of gonorrhoea being applied to the eyes, and that it had been prevalent in this country before the