168 ANEURISM. meat of Mctl. and Chir. Knowledge, Vo!. 3, p. »5.) The bursting of an aneurism of the aorta into the pulmonary artery is then another possible mode, in which the disease may prove fatal. Besides the example of this nature, reported by Dr. Wells, several others are detailed by writers. (See Bulletin de la Faculte de Mddc- cine, No. 3, in which there are two cases; Sue, in Journ. de Med. continue, T. 24, p. 124; and in Bulletin de la Faculte, S$c. T. 17, p. 16.) Aneurisms of the arch of the aorta are stated to have adhered to, and burst into the right auricle of the heart, and thus to have produced instant death. (See Med. Chir. Journ. Vol. 6, p. 617. Bulletin de la Societe de Medecine a Paris, 1810, No. 3, p. 38.) Cases, in which aneurisms of the thoracic aorta, burst into the oesophagus, are uncommon. Bonetus and Morgagni record no examples of this event; nor are there any in the comprehen- sive treatises of Scarpa and Hodgson. Cor- visart speaks of an instance, which had been seen by Dupuytren, of which, however, no de- scription is given. Yet, the possibility of the occurrence is not a matter of speculation, or doubt. A case of this description is noticed by Matani (De Aneurism.. Piescordiorvm Morbh, p. 120;) another is alluded to by Ehrhardt, as being related by Copeland, (Comment De Aueurqsmate Aoricr, p. 22, et Cerutti Cato!. Pmp. Pathol;) and an instance is described by Bertin, (See Bulletins de La Faculte de Med. 1810, p. 14 ) Sauvages is one of the few writers, who have adduced proofs of this mode of rupture : cada- vere aperto, inveni ventriculum septem vcl octo libris sanguinis distensum,aorlamad brachii magni- tudinem, per spatium septem vel octo pollicum dila- talam, et orificium denarii mugnitudine aortcc et cesophago continuo commune, quod tamen quinque crista1 cameo;, veluti valvulce ex ambitu orijicii ori- untlre et circumpositce potuerunt obturare. Per hoc orificium, sanguis ex aorta fluxerat in cesophagttm. (Nos. Mdthod. T. 2, p. 298.) A similar case has been recently published by Brieheteau. (See Bulletin de L’Athente de Med. de Paris, Dec. 1816.) Laennec met with an aneurism of the descend- ing aorta, where the tumor had made such pressure on the thoracic duct, that this tube was partly destroyed, and all the lymphatic vessels were found uncommonly turgid. (Journ. de Med. par Corvisnrt, T. 2, p. 15.) With the exception, perhaps, of one instance given on the authority of Lancisi, (Lauthii Collect, p. 38,) no other example of this description is upon record. An instance is reported by Corvisart, in which the pressure of an aneurism of the ascending aorta had nearly obliterated the termination of the lower vena cava, and a fatal attack of apo- plexy was the consequence. (Mai. du Cccur, p. 342.) It is well worthy of notice, that aneurisms of the arch of the aorta may occasion a tumor, so much like that of a subclavian aneurism, as to be in danger of being mistaken for the latter disease. An example of this kind is related by Mr. Allan Bum: “ a ease,” says lie, “ on which several of the most dis- tinguished practitioners in Edinburgh, and al- most every surgeon in Glasgow, were consulted. The nature of the disease appeared to be so de- cided, and its situation in the subclavian artery so clear, that, on that subject, there was no dif- ference of opinion. Some were, however, of opinion, that an operation might be performed, while others were fully convinced, that the case was hopeless. For myself, I must confess, that I was firmly persuaded, that, in the early stage of the disease, an operation might have been beneficial,” &c. (Surgical Anatomy of the Head, and Neck, p. 30.) After death, the vessel, which was supposed to have been most materially affected, was found perfectly healthy. (P. 39.) After detailing all the particulars of this in- teresting case, Mr. A. Bums observes, that, “ it corroborates Mr. A. Cooper’s remark, that aneurism of the aorta may assume the appearance of being seated in one of the arteries of the neck; an inference, drawn from the examination of a ease, which came under his own observa- tion, and of which he had the goodness to trans- mit a short history to me, along with a sketch, illustrative of the position of the tumor. In one case, the aneurism was attached to the rigid side of the aortic arch, and involved a part of the arteria innominata; in Mr. Cooper’s, the tumor arose from the left side of the arch, from be- tween the roots of the left subclavian, and carotid arteries. It formed a florence-flask-like cyst, the bulbous end of which projected at the root of the neck, from behind the sternum, and so nearly resembled aneurism of the root of the carotid artery, that the practitioner, who con- sulted Mr. Cooper, actually mistook the dis- ease for carotid aneurism.” (Allan Burns, Op. cit. P- 41.) The preceding statement has received full confirmation from the observations of an in- telligent writer. “ I have seen (says Mr. Hodg- son) several cases of aneurism, arising from the superior part of the arch of the aorta, which protruded above the sternum and clavicles, and, in one instance, the space between the tumor and the sternum was so considerable, that it was proposed to tie the carotid artery for an aneu- rism, which dissection proved to arise from the origin of the arteria innominata and fr> m the arch of the aorta.” (On the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 90.) As we have alieady noticed, aneurisms of the aorta are most frequent at its curvature; but, they are also met with on the other portion of this vessel in the thorax, and likewise on that part of it, which is below the diaphragm. In subjects, predisposed to aneurisms, such swellings are frequently seen affecting various parts of the aorta at the same time. When the disease occurs in the abdominal aorta, a preternatural pulsation generally becomes perceptible at some particular point. 'I he pres- sure of the tumor interferes with the functions of the viscera; the breathing is rendered difficult by the swelling resisting the descent of the dia- phragm ; the patient suflers at times excruciating internal pains; sometimes lie is aflecled with costiveness; sometimes, with diarrhoea; and not unfrequently with incontinence bi the urine and