970 SCROPHULA. delicate and irritable, a change of situation to the sea-side, together with bathing, when they have acquired some strength, must be exceedingly proper; and, in gross plethoric subjects, who have diseased lymphatics, from improper feed- ing, and want of necessary exercise, a journey to the sea-coast may be very useful, particularly if the salt-water is drank often, and in a sufficient quantity to become purgative. This, with the novelty of their situation, which may naturally produce an increase of exercise, might answer every expectation; but, these are the kind of cases that, with a very little attention, are easily cured.” (White on the Struma, Edit. 3, 104.) The conclusion, to which Mr. White's remarks upon this part of the subject tend, is, that sea- bathing only deserves praise, as a preventive, and in the early stages of the disease. He par- ticularly condemns cold-bathing, for poor, weakly, debilitated children, whose thin visage, enlarged belly, and frequent tickling cough, sufficiently indicate diseased viscera; such do not recover their natural warmth, after cold-bathing, for hours, and their subsequent head-ach, livid lips, and pale countenance, are sufficient marks of its impropriety. (P. 107.) Dr. Cullen entertained a very favourable opinion of cold-bathing, since lie affirms, that he had seen scrophulous diseases more benefited by it, than any other remedy. (First Lines of Physic, Vol. 4.) “ Cold-bathing, especially cold sea-bathing (says Mr. Pi.ussell) is a remedy universally em- ployed in scrophula, and I believe with great advantage in many cases; for it not only ap- pears to improve the patient’s general health and strength, but likewise to promote the de- tumescence of enlarged glands, and the re- solution of indolent swellings in the joints, even after they have attained a considerable size, and have existed for a great length of time. But, in order that cold-bathing may be practised with safety, and advantage, the constitution must have vigour to sustain the shock of immersion without inconvenience. If the immersion be succeeded by a general glow over the surface of the body, and the patient feels cheerful, and has a keen appetite, we may conclude that the cold bath agrees with him ; but if he shivers on coming out of the water, continues chill, and becomes drowsy, we may be assured that the practice of eold-bathing does no good, and had better be omitted. “ In estimating the comparative merit of cold-bathing and warm-bathing, in the cure of scrophulous complaints, my own experience, together with the result of different conversa- tions on the subject with some of the most judicious practitioners of my acquaintance, would lead me to bestow much more commendation on the effects of warm-bathing. I should not even be inclined to circumscribe the practice to cases of emaciation and debility, since from observa- tion, I am fully satisfied with regard to the be- neficial effects of the warm bath to patients of plethoric constitutions, who were much affected with swelled scrophulous glands. Several of those instances occurred in young women, about and those symptoms of dislross which were con- nected with fulness of blood. “ Hie sensation of the warm bath is exceed- ingly grateful to most patients, and tfie practice is universally safe. It may be employed at all seasons of the year, and in all weather, without danger or inconvenience; the risk of suffering from exposure to cold, immediately after im- mersion in the warm bath, having been much magnified by prejudice. There is not even anv good reason to believe in the existence of such a risk. The precautions, however, which are employed to avert it, are perfectly innocent; and provided they do not impose any unnecessary and incommoding restraints upon the practice, may be encouraged, so far as to relieve the patient’s mind from uneasiness and groundless apprehensions. “ It requires many weeks, and sometimes several months, to ascertain the full effects of warm-bathing in relieving scrophulous com- plaints ; but, as the practice is not attended witii any inconvenience, nor followed by any bad consequence, there can be no reason to intermit the course, till the trial is completely satis- factory ; and I am convinced, that the practice of warm-bathing, in cases of scrophula, will be more universally adopted, after the knowledge of its beneficial effects is more widely diffused.” (See Russell’s Treatise on Scrophula.) Nothing can be more satisfactory (says Pro- fessor Thomson), than the evidence, which is on record of the efficacy of the muriate of soda, as it exists in sea-water. In reading this, one only wonders how so efficacious a remedy should ever have fallen into neglect. (P. lys.) In a sub- sequent passage, however, the same gentleman evinces only a limited confidence in this means of relief. “ Local sea-bathing, both cold and warm, has often appeared to be of use in pro- curing the resolution of scrophulous swellings. The temperature of the bath must always be varied according to circumstances, according to the season of the year, the strength and habits of the patient, and the particular effect, which the bath seems to produce. It is at all times difficult to distinguish between the effects im- mediately arising from the application of salt water to the body, and those which arise from the increased warmth of temperature in the bathing seasons of the year; from the exercise, which patients going to sea-bathing generally take in the open air; from the change of situa- tion and amusements; and, among the poorer classes, from the more nourishing diet and ex- emption from labour, in which they are usually permitted to indulge, during their residing at sea-bathing quarters. It is not improbable, that those living on the sea-const, who become affected with scrophula, would, for similar reasons, derive equal benefit by going from the sea-coast to re- side for a time in the interior of the country. (See Thomson's Lectures, §c. p. 203—204.) A still later writer declares his belief, that cold sea-bathing has no specif e power over the dis- ease. (Lloyd on Scrophula, p. 43.) ^ et ^|C plain surgeon, in search of practical truths, will not care whether any plan has a specific power or not over a complaint, if that disorder is sonic-