949 PTO .case stops at the edge of the cornea, and spreads no further, as long as the patient lives. (B. 2, p. Under such circumstances, of course, the complaint will give no trouble, and may be left to itself, as particularly advised by Mr. Travers. (Synopsis, <£*c. p. ‘274 ) When, how- ever, it encroaches upon the sight, this gen- tleman says, that “ it should be raised by dissec- tion, as close as possible to the margin of the cornea, and the relaxed portion of the mem- brane removed by an incision, midway between .the base of the pterygium, and the cornea, and concentric to that membrane.” For further in- formation, consult J. Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vol. I, p. 22, $c. 8vo. Edinb. 1808. Scarpa sidle Mahittie degli Occiii, cap. 11. Richter’s An- j'angsgr. dcr Wundarzncykunst,B. 3, p. 141, £e. Gottingen, 1795. Sabatier, De la Mqdc- cine Operatoire, T. '2, p 190, Edit. 2. Beer’s Lehre von den Augrukr. B. 2, p. 636, fc. 8vo. Wian 1817. B. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, 8vo. Loud. 1820. Wel- ler's Manual, Vol. 1, 8i>o. Glasgow, 182!. PTOSIS, (from warrui, to fall down.) Ble- pharoptusis. Lapsus Pulpebrcv Superior is. An inability of raising the upper eyelid. According to Beer, ptosis always arises from a considerable relaxation and extension of the common integu- ments of the upper eyelid, which hang down in a kind of fold over the fissure of the closed pal- pebrae, and, when the levator muscle has been more or less weakened by the same causes, which have produced this state of the skin, the weight of the redundant integuments prevents the eyelid from being properly opened. Hence, when the patient tries to raise the eyelid, the ef- forts of the levator muscle may be seen ; but, .the object cannot be perfectly accomplished. With the exception of the inability of raising the upper eyelid, the patient has not the slightest ailment; the eye is not at all red, though, when opened, it does not bear the light well, on account of not being accustomed to the stimulus ; no stillicidium lachrymarum is obser- vable ; and the edge of the eyelid, with all the eyelashes quite dry, is seen directly the part is elevated with the thumb. When the relaxed fold of the skin is taken hold of between the thumb and forefinger, without pulling or stretch- ing it, but only just so as to take off the weight opposed to the levator muscle, by the redundance of skin, the patient is immediately able to raise the eyelid without any difficulty; but, as soon as the surgeon relinquishes his hold of the skin, the part falls down again. 'J he relaxed fold of skin is sometimes situated rather over the outer com- missure, than the middle of the eyelid, in which case, the latter part can be opened towards the nasal commissure, and the eyeball becomes ha- bitually rotated towards the nose for the purpose of vision, whereby strabismus, and if the dis- order be not soon rectified, an obliquity of sight, are occasioned. Beer adds, that some eyelids are formed with a predisposition to such an elon- gation of their integuments. According to the same writer, a prolapsus of the upper eyelid, may be the consequence of any inflammation of the part, accompanied with con- siderable mdema, or ecchymosis, as happens from PUP severe wounds of the forehead, eyebrow, or the eyelid itself, particularly when no attempt is made to unite the parts by the first intention. The infirmity may also be the consequence of ophthalmv, that has been either long neglected, or badly treated with relaxing poultices, and it is said, that scroplmlous patients have a disposition to the complaint. (Beer, B. 2, p. 109—111.) The case, as described by this author, may be cured by the excision of a long slip of skin from the eyelid, just broad enough for the removal of the redundant quantity. For taking hold of the portion of integuments, Beer employs forceps, the extremities of which are broad, with a some- what concave edge. As much of the superflu- ous skin is to be taken hold of, and raised, as will enable the patient to open the eyelid, which circumstance is the criterion of the quantity selected for removal, being enough. The ex- cision may then be performed with scissars, us Beer directs, or with a knife, as others may prefer ; and the wound is to be closed with a suture. The slip of skin chosen for removal, should not be too near the edge of the eyelid, for then the skin of the lower edge of the wound would be too narrow for the application of the su- ture. (Beer, B. 2, p. 115.) Some writers refer particular cases of ptosis altogether to paralysis of the levator muscle; and other in- stances to spasm of the orbicular muscle.— When the disease depends entirely on para- lysis, the eye and surrounding parts, may be frequently bathed with cold spring water, and the eyelid and eyebrow rubbed with the camphor liniment, to which a little of the tinctura lyttae is added. The shower bath, bark, and other tonics are also indicated. The cure of spasmo- dic ptosis, which is rather a symptom of other diseases, like hysteria, chorea, worms, &c. than a distinct affection, consists in the removal of the original complaint. However, generally speak- ing, antispasmodic medicines; blisters on the temple, or behind the ear ; an issue between the mastoid process and angle of the jaw, as recom- mended by Adam Schmidt, on account of some nervous ramifications of the third branch of the fifth pair, which give twigs to the eyelids, lying in that situation; and fomenting and bathing the eye, eyelids, and face, with a decoction of poppy heads and cicuta; are means, which merit the consideration of the practitioner. (See Rich- ter's Anfaugsgr. dcr Wundarzn. B. 4, p. 488, 8vo.3d Edit. Gott. 1802. Weller’s Manual, Trausl. by Monteath, Vol. 1, p. 97, $-0. 8vo. Glasgow, 1821. G.J. Beer, Lehre von den Augcnkr. B. 2, p. 10,9, $r. 8vo. Wien. 1817. PUNCTURED WOUNDS. See Wounds. PUPIL. When the opening in the centre of the iris is preternaturally large, and this organ more or less deprived of" its power of motion, the disease is technically named mydriasis, which is either symptomatic, or idiopathic. The first form of the complaint, as Weller observes, is exemplified in cases of hydrocephalus, hy- drophthalmia, pressure on the brain from various causes, worms, amaurosis, &c. The second olten presents itself as a paralytic affection ol the iris ; a state, frequently induced by the application of certain narcotics, like belladonna and hyoscia- mus. Congenital cases of mydriasis are also met