VEN VEI 1138 Vol. 2, p. 330, £c.) In order to avoid the danger of wounding the femoral vein, above the edge of the sartorius, Mr. Carmichael recom- mends, “ introducing the needle on the pubal side of the artery;” (P. 357) a direction, which should have been considered in the article Aneurism. Inflammation frequently produces a thickening of the coats of the veins, as well as adhesion of their sides, and obliteration of their cavities. In- deed, in some instances, these vessels have been found to resemble arteries in the thickness of their coats, and in retaining a circular form when cut across. (Hodgson, op. oil. p. 513.) Ulceration sometimes extends to the coats of veins, and, by exposing their cavities, gives rise to hemorrhage. In certain examples, it com- mences in the membranous lining, and destroys the other coats. In general, however, the ad- hesive inflammation precedes the ulcerative, and by obliterating the cavities of these vessels, pre- vents the occurrence of hemorrhage. When sphacelation takes place in the vicinity of veins, their cavities, like those of arteries under similar circumstances, are filled with extensive plugs of coagulum, which prevent hemorrhage upon the separation of the mortified part. Veins are sometimes ruptured, without any previous morbid alteration in their structure, and the accident may be induced by muscular exertions, external violence, the sudden effects of the cold bath, &c. Although a deposition of calcareous matter almost invariably takes place in the arteries of persons advanced in life, it is an extremely rare occurrence in the coats of veins. Loose calculi have been found in the cavities of veins; and tumors sometimes grow from their lining. In a case of scirrhous pylorus, Mr. Hodgson found a tumor, larger than a hazel nut, growing from the lining of the splenic vein, and resembling in its appearance and consistence the disease which existed at the pylorus. (P. 524.) The venous, like the arterial system, appears to be capable of carrying on a collateral circu- lation, when any part of it is impervious. Even after the obliteration of the vena cava inferior, the blood has been known to be conveyed with facility to the heart through the lumbar veins and vena azygos. In the case, recorded by Dr. Baillie (Trans, for the Improvement of Medical and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 1, p. 127), it is remarkable, that the vena cava inferior was obli- terated at the point where the venae cavae hepa- ticae opened into it, so that not only the blood from the lower extremities, but also that from the liver, must have passed through collateral chan- nels to the heart. Want of room having prevented me from in- troducing further observations on the diseases of veins, I must refer to the following works for additional information. J. Hunter, in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Know- ledge, Vol. 1. Abcrnethy's Works. J. Hodg- son on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins. Longuct, Dis. sur VInflammation dcs Veins, Paris, 1815. B. Travers, in Surgical Essays, Part I, Hvo. Land. 1818. F. A. B. Puchelt, /)// v T/ni i ii Semen K ro J\hof't t'.lt. chad, in Trans, of the Association of Fellows, §c. of the King's and Queen's College of Phy. sicians in Ireland. Vol. 2, 8vo. Dublin, 1818. VENEREAL DISEASE. (Lues Venerea. Morbus Gallicus. Syphilis.') About the year 1494, or 1495, the venereal disease is said to have made its first appearance in Europe. Some writers believe, that it originally broke out at the siege of Naples; but most of them sup- pose that, as Columbus returned from his first expedition to the West Indies, about tiie above period, his followers brought the disorder with them from the new to the old world. Other authors, however, among whom is Mr. B. Bell, maintain the opinion, that the venereal dis- ease was well known upon the old continent, and that it prevailed among the Jews, Greeks, and Romans, and their descendants, long before the discovery of America. Although many considerations lead me to re- ject the common history of syphilis as fabulous, I mean that account which refers its origin to America, or the French army in Italy, it does not appear to me, that any utility would be likely to result from agitating this question in modern times, because, if it be true, as the most candid and intelligent surgeons of the present day generally acknowledge, that they cannot precisely define what the venereal disease is, nor always point out the exact circumstances, in which it differs from some other anomalous complaints, even when the cases are before their eyes, how can such discrimination be attempted from a mere review of old descriptions, unaccompanied with the advantage of letting the reader judge from the living patients themselves? But, as far as the nature of the venereal disease has been un- ravelled, and it is allowable to judge from such comparisons, I may be permitted to remark, that, in degree of severity, the acuteness of sym- ptoms, rapidity of propagation, and extent and quickness of fatality, no forms of disease, now ever conjectured to be venereal, bear the least re- semblance to the destructive malady, with whichi the army before Naples, at the close of the fifteenthi century, was afflicted : nor will any ignorance off the uses of mercury, as will be presently noticed,,| explain differences so strongly marked. The venereal disease is supposed to arise fron a specific morbid poison, which, when applied to the human body, has the power of propagating or multiplying itself, and is capable of acting both locally and constitutionally. Mr. Hunter was of opinion, that the effects produced by the poison, arise from its peculiaa or specific irritation, joined with the aptness ol the living principle to be irritated by such at cause, and the parts so irritated acting accord ingly. Hence, he considered, that the venere virus irritated the living parts in a manner pecu liar td itself, and produced an inflammation, pe culiar to that irritation, from which a matter produced, peculiar to the inflammation. The venereal poison is capable of affecting th human body in two different ways : locally, thtj is, in those parts only to which it is first applied and, constitutionally, that is, in consequence < its absorption. In whatever manner the venereal disease wfl first nrndnoed. it hep-nn. savs Mr. Hunter, in til