-1S8 EYE Cranii rario-e. Argent. 1730. J. R. Fayolle,ile /'.rostosi. Monsp. 1774. Abernethy, in Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, I o/. 2, p. 309. Bonn, Desc.riplio Thesauri Os- sium Hov'mni. Dumont Jour, de Med. T. 13; Hist, ile l'Acad, des Sciences, 1737, p. 38; Hovsle.t, in Mem. de l'Acad, de Chir. T. 3.; Ma- luni de Osscis Tumoribus, p. 20; Petit, Trait c des Mnl. des Os, T. 2. Morgagni de Srdibus, &'c. Bp. 50. art. 56. Kulinus de Exustosi Clttviculce. Halter. Collect. Diss. Chir. 4. R. Rente in Med. Chir. Trans., Vo1. 10; A. Cooper, Surgical Es- says, Part. I. 8io. Bond. 1818. J. F. Lokstein, Compte de son. Museum Anatomique, p. 24. 5fr, 8 vo.Strasb, 1820. EXTIRPATION, (from extirpn, to eradi- cate,) The complete removal, or destruction of any part, either by cutting-instruments, the ac- tion of caustics, or the application of a ligature. EXTRACTION, (from extraho, to draw out.) The taking extraneous substances out of the body. Thus bullets and splinters are said to be extracted from wounds; stones from the urethra, or bladder. Surgeons also sometimes apply the term, ex- traction, to the removal of tumors out of cavities, as for instance, to the taking of cartilaginous tumors out of the joints; they seldom speak of extracting any diseased original part of the body; though, they do so in one example, viz. the ca- ta EXTRACTION OF THE CATARACT. See Cataract. EXTRAVASATION, (from extra, out of, and vus, a vessel.) A term, applied by surgeons to the passage of fluids out of their proper ves- sels, or receptacles. Thus, when blood is effused on the surface, or in the ventricles of the brain, it is said, that there is an extravasation, When blood is poured from the vessels into the cavity of the peritoneum, in wounds of the abdomen, or when the contents of any of the in- testines are effused in the same way, surgeons call this accident an extravasation. The urine is also said to be extravasated, when, in consequence of a wound, or of sloughing, or ulceration, it makes its way into the cellular substance, or among the abdominal viscera. When the bile spreads among the convolutions of the bowels, in wounds of the gall bladder, this is a species of extravasation. In wounds of the thorax, an extravasation of blood also frequently happens in the cavity of the pleura. Large quantities of blood are often extravasated in consequence of vessels being ruptured by violent blows ; in the scrotum, on the shoulder, and under the scalp, this effect is observed with particular frequency. In the articles. Head, Injuries of, and Wounds, I have treated of extravasations of blood in the cranium, chest, and abdomen. EYE, Calculus in the interior of. Scarpa has dissected an eye, which was almost entirely transformed into a stony substance. It was taken from the body of an old woman, and was not above half as large as the sound one. The cornea appeared dusky, and, behind it, the iris, of a very singular shape, was distinguish- able, being concave, and without any pupil in its centre. The rest of the eyeball, from the limits of the cornea backward, was unusually hard to the touch. EYE On making an incision. Scarpa found the sclerotica and choroides almost in their natural state, and a small quantity of limpid Huid issued from the anterior chamber of the aqueous hu- mour. Beneath the choroides, two hard calcu- lous concave plates presented themselves, united together by means of a complete membranous substance. One was situated forward ; the other backward: the latter occupied the bottom of the eye; the former the situation of the corpus tf- liare and crystalline lens. Scarpa made an incision, through the compact membrane, which joined together the margins of the two calculous bodies. He found in the cavity, instead of the vitreous humour, some drops of a glutinous bloody fluid, and, in the longitudinal direction of this cavity, a little soft cylinder, which, extending forward from the bot- tom of the eye, along the great axis of this or- gan, was inserted into a cartilaginous, elastic substance, situated in the centre of the front cal- culous body, precisely where, in the natural state, it is customary to find the lens, and its capsule, which were entirely wanting. The posterior surface of the iris had formed a firm adhesion to the middle of the cartilaginous substance, situated in the centre of the front cal- culus. Hence, the iris, when beheld on the side next the cornea and anterior chamber, appeared as it actually was, concave in the middle. The optic nerve, which had degenerated into a mere thread, entered the sclerotica and cho- roides, as wTell as the centre, or bottom, of the posterior calculous body, and lost itself in the little soft cylinder, which, as was explained, pro- ceeded to be inserted in the cartilaginous sub- stance, situated in the middle of the anterior cal- culus, or the place naturally occupied by the lens, and its capsule. The greater part of this little cylinder was, according to appearance, nothing else, than the membrane of the vitre- ous humour, destitute of fluid, shrivelled, and changed into a compact substance. Haller met with a similar case. (See Obs. Pathol. Oper. Min. Obs. 15.) Fabricius Hildanus, Lancisi, Morgagni, Morand, Zinn, and Peilier, make distinct mention of calculi in the interior of the eye. (Scarpa suite Malattie degli Occhi. Ve- nezia, 1802.) Ossifications of the capsule of the lens, of that of the vitreous humour, and of, what was supposed to be, the hyaloid membrane, are noticed by Mr. Wardrop. (Morbid Anatomy if the Huniun Eye, Vol. 2, P. 128. 8ro. Emul. 1818.) EYE, Cancer, and Extirpation of. One of the well-known characters of carcinoma in ge- neral is to attack persons advanced in age, rather than children axd young subjects. Hence, an observation, made by the experienced Desault, that cancer of the eye is most frequent in child- hood, could not but appear a position inconsist- ent with the usual nature of the disease in ge- neral. Yet, how’ was this statement to he con- tradicted, while it was confirmed by the testi- mony of Bichat himself, who says, that more than one third of the patients, on whom Desault operated in the Hotel Dieufor cancer of the eye, were under twelve years of age ? Here truth and accuracy, as in many other questions rela- tive to disease, would never have been attained without the aid of morbid anatomy, whereby dis- tempers, which bear a superficial resemblance to