1218 BLADDER. mucus, it is taken out, and a new one intro- duced. (Surgical Observations, 1S04.) It might be objected to this plan of employing a hollow bougie, that, as it is smaller, than the wound, the urine is not kept from passing between the instrument, and parts, into which it is introduced, as well as through the tube itself. This happened in Mr. Abernethy’s case, and, though no urine in this instance got into the cellular membrane, it might probably sometimes do so, because, it is not till after inflammation has taken place that the cavities of the cellular substance are closed with coagulating lymph. After a time, however, the cannula of the trocar might be withdrawn, and the hollow bougie employed, if preferred, though it seems difficult to discover a reason for the preference. The following is one of Sir E. Home’s con- clusions : “ When the puncture is made above the pubes, the cannula, which incloses the trocar, is not to be removed, till the surrounding parts have been consolidated by inflammation, so as to prevent the urine in its passage out from in- sinuating itself into the neighbouring parts ; for wherever the urine lodges, mortification takes place. Any advantage, therefore, which may arise from a more flexible instrument remaining in the bladder, is more than counterbalanced by its not filling completely the aperture through the coats of the bladder, and allowing the urine to escape into the cellular membrane.” (Tunis, of a Soc.for Med. and Chir. Knowledge, V. 2.) There is much truth in the following passage: The abdomen is inflamed ; the preliminary in- cisions, which prepare for the introduction of the trocar, sometimes pass through several inches of fat, and cellular substance ; the incisions must be wide in proportion to their depth; the cannula is no sooner lodged here, than it is displaced, in some degree, by the contraction of the bladder, which, when emptied, subsides under the pubes. The cannula stands so obliquely, that the urine never flows with ease, bu., by running out upon the wound, and by being injected among the cellular substance, it causes the wound to in- flame; the wound by its proximity to the in- flamed peritonaeum soon mortifies, and thus, not- withstanding the temporary relief, produced by the emptying of the bladder, the patient dies on the third or fourth day. (John Bell’s Principles of Surgent, Vol. 2, p. 271.) That this operation is infinitely better, than that of making the puncture in the perineum, is indisputable. There are even now some good surgeons, who seem to prefer it to the method of tapping the bladder from the rectum. In the (Euvres Chirurgicales de Desault, Tom. 3, p. 324, it has received the preference, and at p. 319 of the same book, a high encomium is bestowed on it, in the following terms. “ This operation is easy. The little thickness of the parts which are to be wounded, renders it quick and triflingly painful. The surgeon has occasion for no assistance. The patient is neither in- timidated, nor fatigued with the posture in which he is put. It is almost impossible to miss the bladder, except it were exceedingly contracted. There is no risk of piercing the cavity of the ab- domen. Anatomy proves, that here the bladder is in immediate contact with the recti muscles, and that when this viscus is distended with urinei i it pushes the peritoneum upwards and backwards* > underwhich membrane itenlarges, and thus makes* , the point of the trocar become more and more b distant from the cavity of the abdomen. The pa- tient may easily lie on his side, or abdomen, so as to discharge all the urine contained in the bladder. There are here no nerves, nor vessels, of which the injury can be dangerous. No difficulty is experienced in fixing the cannula, and the pre- sence of this instrument does not hinder the pa- tient from sitting, standing up, or even walking about in his chamber. When the cannula, also, \ is introduced to the lower part of the bladder, this viscus cannot possibly quit it. Lastly, the wound heals with more facility, than that made in any other method.” Respecting this advice to push the cannula so far into the bladder, it is highly objectionable, for the reason already explained. The writer of the preceding commendation seems to me rather too partial. He has told us of the little thick- ness of the wounded parts, and, yet a little before j bestowing these praises, he has acknowledged, “ il cst rare, que dans cette poncliim, on traverse directement la ligne blanche: on passe presque toujours svr ses cotes, et Von divise la pean, Vapnvenrose des muscles larges du has- ventre, les muscles droits, quclquefois I’un des pyramidales, et la paroi anterieure de la vessitV’ (Tom. 3V p. 318.) According to my own judgment, the plan, which is about to be described, is the safest and best, when the circumstances of the case afford a choice, and I think, that it would be for the benefit of the afflicted, if the puncture above the pubes were only performed in cases, in which the enormous enlargement of the prostate gland, and disease in the rectum, prevent a puncture from being safely made from the rectum. 5. Puncture from the Rectum. This method is more generally applicable, than either of the two plans above related. It is not, like the puncture in the perinaeum, liable to the objection, that the wound is made in diseased or inflamed parts, which afterwards become gangren- ous. Nor is it, like the puncture above the pubes, attended with a chance of the urine dif- fusing itself in the cellular membrane. It has also the advantage of emptying the bladder complete- ly. The puncture is made sufficiently far from the neck of the bladder not to increase any in- flammation existing in that situation; and the operation is really attended with little pain, since there is no skin, nor muscles to be wounded, merely the coats of the bladder and rectum, at a point where these viscera lie in contact with each other. The enlargement of the prostate gland, and disease of the rectum, are, perhaps, the only solid reason against its being uniformly preferred. When the bludder is to be tapped from the rec- tum, two fingers should be introduced into the intestine, instead of one, as has been directed. In this manner, the cannula can be more con- veniently guided, and held in a proper position, while the trocar is introduced with the other hand. The stilette, however, must never be introduced into the cannula, except when this is properly placed, with its extremity against