1528 CATHETER. it passes the membranous part of the canal, situated between the bulb and the prostate gland; and in the third, it enters this gland, and the neck of the bladder. In the first stage, little trouble is usually ex- perienced; for the canal is here so supported by the surrounding corpus spongiosum, that it can- not easily be pushed into the form of a pouch, in which the end of the instrument can be en- tangled. When the catheter is to be introduced with its concavity towards the abdomen, and the patient is in the recumbent posture, the thighs are to be separated, and the legs moderately bent. The surgeon is to draw back the prepuce, and to hold the penis between the thumb and fore-finger of his left-hand, which are to be applied on each side of the corona glandis, and not at all to the under surface of the penis, so as to avoid press- ing upon the commencement of the urethra. After the catheter has been well oiled, its handle is to be held between the thumb and fore-finger of the right hand, and to rest with the back of the little finger upon the patient’s abdomen, in the vicinity of the navel. Now, while the handle is parallel to the axis of the body, the beak is to be introduced into the urethra ; the penis being ex- tended, and drawn forwards, as it were, over the instrument, while the latter is gently pushed on, until its beak has reached the arch of the pubes. When the penis cannot be drawn further over the catheter, the beak has arrived in this situation, where it stops in front of the arch, and is press- ing against the posterior side of the urethra. At'this particular moment, the handle is to be depressed towards the patient’s thighs, and the manoeuvre well managed,^ generally directs the end of the catheter, at once through the pros- tatic portion of the urethra into the cavity of the bladder. In short, as soon as the beak of the instrument has passed under the arch of the pubes, and the surgeon very slowly brings the handle forwards, or downwards, the beak is elevated, and glides into the bladder. In this stage of the ope- ration, the penis must be allowed to sink down, and not be kept tense, as this would only tender the passage of the instrument more difficult. The operation, however, is not always suc- cessfully accomplished in this manner. The beak of the catheter may be stopped by the os pubis; it may take a wrong direction, so as to push the membranous part of the urethra to one side or the other; or it may be stopped by a fold of the lining of the passage. The first kind of impediment is best avoided, by not depressing the handle of the catheter too soon ; that is, before the point has passed beyond the arch of the pubes. When the membranous part of the urethra is pushed to one side or the other, the instrument ought to be withdrawn a little, and then pushed gently on in a different direction; but, if this expedient is unavailing, the index finger of the left hand may be introduced into the rectum, for the purpose of supporting the membranous part of the urethra, and guid- ing the extremity of the catheter. The passage of the catheter through the membranous part of the urethra, and especially the attempt to hit the entrance of the prostate, are the most difficult tilings in the operation, and also the only ones attended with risk of mischief, which is frequently produced by rough, unskilful surgeons, when they use violence, and rupture this yielding weak portion of the canal. When the prostate gland is enlarged, the urethra makes a more sudden turn upwards, just as it approaches the bladder, than is natural. The end of the catheter, therefore, should be more bent upward, than in other cases. In the third stage of the operation, the beak of the instrument has to pass the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. The principal obsta- cles to its passage, in this situation, arise from spasm of the neck of the bladder, and muscles in the perineum, and from the instrument being pushed against the prostate gland, instead of into the continuation of the urethra through it. The first impediment may generally be obviated by waiting a few moments, and gently rubbing the perineum, before attempting to push the catheter further into the passage. The hindrance, caused by the prostate, is best eluded by using an instrument the point of which is more curved, than its other part. Sometimes the surgeon himself presses the prostate towards the os pubis, by means of his finger in the rectum, and thus prevents the passage of the catheter, by' increas- ing the sudden curvature at this part of the ure- thra. Hence, as Richter observes, it is a very- important maxim, never to introduce the finger so far into the rectum, as to press on the pros- tate gland itself. When the catheter has turned round the pubes, and is just about to enter the neck of the bladder, is the critical moment, in which may be seen, whether a surgeon can or cannot manage the operation with skill; for, if he knows how to pass the instrument, he suddenly, but not vio- lently, changes its direction. He depresses the handle with a particular kind of address, and raises the point, which, as if it had suddenly surmounted some obstacle, starts into the neck of the blad- der, and the urine bursts out in a jet from the mouth of the catheter. They, who are unskilful, press the tube for- ward, and persist, as they had begun, in drawing up the penis, on the supposition that by stretch- ing this part they lengthen the urethra, and make it straight, whereas they elongate only that part of the canal, along which the catheter has already passed. (John Bell’s Principles of Surgery, 1 ’oL 2, p. 213.) When the catheter is to be introduced with its concavity downwards, or by the “tour de maitre,” the beak is to be passed into the urethra, and the penis drawn over it, as it were, ns in the fore- going method. In other words, the instrument well oiled, is to be introduced, with its convexity uppermost, as far as it can be, without using force. As soon, however, as the end of the catheter has reached the point, at which the canal begins to form a curve under the pubes, the surgeon is to make the penis and the instrument perform a semicircular movement, by inclining them to- wards the right groin, and then towards the abdomen. In the execution of this manoeuvre, care is to be taken to keep the beak of the cathe- ter stationary', so that it may be the centre of the movement, and simply revolve upon itself. This part of the operation, the object of which is