436 EXOSTOSIS. membrane, and as removing the musclas to the this state, without inconvenience, daring life, distance of three inches, or more, from the bone, This is most frequently observed in the ivurv so that they represent a thin layer spread over exostosis. Without having precisely this ex- tne tumor, lhe blood vessels and large nerves treme hardness, however, some exostoses, which are also similarly displaced. The tuberculated are tolerably solid, and in which the natural appearance of the skin, which is itself sound, is organization of bone is still distinguishable, are caused by projecting small masses on the surface capable of undergoing a slight reduction after of the tumor. Under the muscles is the peri- the removal of their cause by nature, or art. osteum, pushed to a considerable distance from Boyer states, that this sometimes happens in a the bone. A part of the swelling itself is yellow, few scrofulous exostoses, and particularly in such like fat; another portion resembles brain ; and a as are venereal, and not of very large size third is composed of coagulated blood with in- The cellular exostosis of Boyer, the fungous terstices filled with serum. In some parts, the exostosis of Mr. A. Cooper, and the cases, which white substance is found nearly as firm as car- are named osteosarcomata, are the most serious tilage; but, in general, it presents a more of all, especially when the texture of the bone is spongy appearance; and is interspersed with considerably altered, and the disease is in a state spiculae of bone. The shell of the bone itself is in of ulceration. The rapid formation of the dis- part absorbed; in some places, it is only thinner ease, the violent shock which it imparts to the than usual; while in others it is immensely ex- constitution, and the hectical disturbance which panded, so as to form a case, like wire-work, over the tumor. The fungous granulations, proceeding from the medullary membrane itself, are exceedingly vascular, and often shoot from the cavity of the bone beyond the level of the integuments. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part ], p. 165—168.) According to Boyer, spherical exostoses, with an internal cavity, and hypersarcosis, are only attended with violent pain in the beginning, and when they have attained a considerable size, they become almost indolent. But, the succes- sive formation of the fungosities, contained in their cavity, has the effect of distending its pa- rietes, and rendering them thin, so that such exostoses are exposed to fractures and ulceration. This last effect may, indeed, be a consequence of the progress of the disease, and give rise to a series of consecutive symptoms, which may be compared with those which have been described in the preceding case. The spherical exostosis, however, is less dangerous, perhaps, because the disease extends less deeply. Such tumors admit of being directly attacked, and operations for the destruction of the bony shell, and of the fungous growth, which it includes, may be successfully practised; an attempt, which would certainly be useless and dangerous in the fore- going instance. One termination of exostosis, not spoken of by writers, but which has been observed, espe- cially in the hard and stalactitical exostosis, is that by necrosis. Tumors of this description, after acquiring a large size, have been attacked with mortification, separated from the bone, which served them as a base, and surrounded with a reproduction in every respect similar to that, with which nature surrounds sequestra formed under any other circumstances. This termination is undoubtedly the most favourable of all, because nature proceeds in it slowly, without any violent disturbance; but, unfor- tunately, it is the least common. Art can imitate it; but her means are very inferior to those of nature. (Boyer, Traite des Mai. Cliir. T. 3, p. 547—550.) The hardest exostosis, which has grown slowly, and without causing severe pain, is the least dangerous of all, especially when the con- stitution is sound, and the patient not of a bad habit. After the disease has attained a certain size, it may become stationary, and continue in it excites, generally bring the patient into immi- nent danger, and commonly leave no other re- source but that of amputating the limb. The treatment of exostoses is to be considered in a medical and surgical point of view. When any general cause of the disease is known, or suspected, such cause is to be removed by those means, which experience has proved to be most efficacious. Thus Boyer recommends mercurial and antiscrofulous remedies, &c. according to the nature of the case. Whatever may be the species of exostosis, or the nature of its cause, relief, says Boyer, may be derived from the outward use of opium, when- ever the disease is attended with severe pain. He speaks favourably of the application of a linseed-meal poultice, made with a decoction of the leaves of night-shade and henbane, to which a strong solution of opium has been added. But he thinks, that an antiphlogistic plan, with bleed- ing, is hardly ever admissible, because it weakens the patient too much in so tedious a disease, and can only be a palliative, incapable of curing, or preventing the ravages of the disorder. When there is no pain, or it has been ap- peased, during or after any general method of treatment, which may have been indicated, the sur. geon may try resolvent applications, particularly soap and mercurial plasters, volatile liniment, bathing in water, containing a small quantity of soda, or potassa, hydro-sulphurated washes, &c. Boyer acknowledges, however, that the pro- gress of exostoses can scarcely ever be checked by any general methodical treatment. The mu- riatic and acetic acids have been administered, but without effect; noram I acquainted with any remedies, which possess efficacy, excepting mer- cury, which we know will rarely answer, except in cases of nodes. In the commencement of any deep-seated disease in a bone, however, Mr. A. Cooper thinks, that the best medicine, for inter- nal exhibition, is the oxymuriate of quicksilver in small doses, together with the compound de- coction of sarsaparilla. (Surgical Essays, Part 1. p. 169.) Boyer is firmly of opinion, that with the exception of recent small exostoses, the nature of which is even doubtful, the resolu- tion of such tumors is almost impossible. A slight diminution of the swelling, and its be- coming perfectly indolent, are the most favour- able changes which can be hoped for, whether they occur spontaneously, or are the fruit of sur- I