e continually moistened. The parotid duct osses the cheek, being situated about one- trd from the zygoma, and two-thirds from the sis of the jaw. After passing over the mas- :er muscle, it pierces the buccinator, and ter- nates in the mouth by a considerable orifice, nosite the space, between the second and third uspid grinders of the upper jaw. As soon as lias, passed the masseter, it dives deeply into > fat of the cheek, and, as M. Louis observes, ikes an angle before it opens into the mouth. 4 cm. del'Acad.dc Chir. T. 3, p 45/.) From the situation of the parotid duct it is ble to be wounded, and this has even been ne, by the surgeon’s lancet, through ignorance, ee Monro's Works, p. 520.) In cases of this : id, the continual escape of saliva may prevent •j wound from healing, and, what is called a livary fistula would be the perpetual conse- c ence, if no steps were taken to afford relief. ie parotid duct has sometimes been ruptured ' blows. (CEuvrcs Chir. de Desault, T. 2, 221.) Cases also occur, in which the face icomes considerably swollen, in consequence of e saliva insinuating itself into the cellular sub- uice, just as the air does in emphysema. Re- secting the last circumstance, 1 shall only just ention, that mischief of this kind must always ; prevented from becoming very extensive, • making a depending opening for the ready cape of the fluid. With regard to the treatment of salivary .tube, if the division of the parotid duct is re- nt, the sides of the wound should be brought to contact, and a steady pressure maintained i that part of the cheek, by means of suitable impresses, and a roller. In this manner, a ilivary fistula may often be prevented alto- gether; either the divided ends of the duct re- nite, and the spittle resumes its original course ito the mouth; or, what is more probable, the ound in the face heals at every part, with the xception of a small fistulous track, which serves s a continuation of the duct into the inside of ie mouth. The latter kind of cure, however, an only take place when the wound extends uite through the cheek ; but the chance of the vo portions of the duct uniting, and becoming ontinuous again, should always be taken in re- ent cases. When a salivary fistula is actually formed, a "cton, introduced from the external fistulous t rifice into the mouth, is a method which seems it o have, with justice, the greatest share of ap- • robation. The celebrated Monro adopted this i dan with success; he kept in the seton till the liannel, which it had formed, had become fistu- 1 ous, after which it was withdrawn, the external irifice being touched with the argentum nitra- um, healed up, and the saliva in future flowed hrough the artificial fistulous channel into the mouth. Desault used to practise the seton as fol- lows ;—He introduced two fingers of his left band into the patient’s mouth, and placing them between the teeth and the cheek, opposite the I fistula, thus kept the integuments tense, and the gums from being injured. He then introduced a small hydrocele trocar, with its cannula, just before the opening of the posterior part of the duct, and pushed it through the cheek, in u di- rection a little’inclined forward. An assistant now took hold ot the cannula, while Desault withdrew the perforator, and passed through the tube a bit ot thread into the cavity of the mouth. The cannula was next taken out, and a seton, which was then fastened to the end of the thread in the mouth, was drawn from within -outward ; but not so far as to come between the edges of the external opening, where the thread'alone lodged, and this was fastened with sticking- plaster to the outside of the cheek. The outer wound was dressed with lint and compresses. Desault used to change the seton daily, intro- ducing regularly rather a larger one, and taking especial care not to bring it between the edges of the wound, which was afterwards covered with sticking plaster. He enjoined the patient not to move the jaw much, and only allowed him, for some time, liquid food. In about six weeks, he used to omit the seton, leaving in the thread, however, for a little while longer. This being taken away, lie used to finish die cure, by touch- ing the little aperture remaining, with caustic. The making of an artificial passage is one of the most ancient plans of curing salivary fistulae. Every author has had his particular method of doing it, and numerous variations are to be met with, either in the instrument employed for piercing the cheek, or in the substance intended for maintaining the opening. For the first step of the operation, surgeons sometimes used the actual cautery, as Saviard furnishes us an in- stance of; sometimes an awl, as Monro did; sometimes a common knife, or lancet; some- times a straight needle, which drew in the thread after it; but, Desault’s trocar generally merits the preference, because the cannula, by remain- ing in the wound, after the perforator is with- drawn, allows the thread to be introduced, which in every other way is either difficult to accom- plish, or requires the use of several instruments. For the second step of the operation, viz. keeping the opening distended, cannulre were employed by Duphenix, who used to make a suture over them; a plan objectionable, inas- much as it was attended with the inconvenience of a solid body left in the parts, and also that of the instrument being apt to slip into the mouth. The seton, therefore, ought to be preferred, and there can be no doubt that Desault’s method is better than the one followed by Monro. (See on this subject, Monro's Works; CEuvrcs Chir. dc Desault, par Bichat, T. 2, p. 221. Also Mem. de l'Acad, dc Chir. T. 3. J. B. Sicbold, Diss. sistens Historiam Systcmatis Salivalisphysiologice ctpathologicc cousiderati, fol. Jence, 1797.) PAROTID GLAND, EXTIRPATION OF. (See Tumors.) PAItU'LIS. (from nmon, near, and *Xov, the gum.) An inflammation, boil, or abscess in the gums. PENIS, AMPUTATION OF. No part of the penis should ever be amputated, on ac- count of a mortification, because the dead por- tion will be naturally thrown ofl, and the ulcer heal, without the least occasion lor putting the patient to any pain from the emjiloymcnt of the knife. Some cancerous, and fungous diseases, t ?