INFLAMMATION. 711 hieh are astringent, ami supposed to have also sedative quality. The acetite of lead, sulphate f zinc, and vinegar, seem now, indeed, to have cquired permanent celebrity for their efficacy l resolving inflammation. Extensive experience, and long established rials, have notv fully confirmed the virtue of all hose local remedies, in which the acetite of lead 5‘the active ingredient. M. Goulard, and other French surgeons, found, that the objections to he employment of many other sedative appli- cations in the treatment of inflammation, did not exist against the use of this preparation of lead. The universal assent of modern practitioners moves, indeed, that the acetite of lead, as a local implication for genuine phlegmonous inflamma- ion, is certainly unsurpassed, if not unrivalled, n point of efficacy. The preparations of lead are recommended by M. Goulard, as almost equally applicable to ■every stage of inflammation. When swellings have fully suppurated, the employment, ot what he calls, the extraction Saturni, will almost al- ways render it unnecessary to open them. Even in gangrene, the solution of lead is represented by this zealous writer, as a remedy deserving of the greatest confidence. But, notwithstanding the above exaggeration, every man of experience and observation will allow, that, while there is a chance of accomplish- ing resolution, no local applications to phleg- monous inflammation are in general so proper as cold lotions, containing the acetite of lead. “ The manner in which it operates in curing inflammation (as Dr. Thomson observes) is not known to us, nor is it at all times easy to di- stinguish between the share, which the lead has in allaying inflammation, and that which is to be attributed to the coldness of the water in which it is dissolved. No one, however, will doubt of ihe efficacy of this remedy, who has ever felt it in his own body, or witnessed in others the soothing and agreeable effects, which it produces in excoriations of the skin, or in in- flammation of mucous membranes. Lead is a remedy, which is often highly useful in excoria- tions from friction, in punctured wounds with inflammation of absorbent vessels, veins, nerves, &c. in slight burns, in cutaneous heat, eruptions of the face, in fractures and dislocations, in the inflammation attending scirrhus and cancer, syphilis and gonorrhoea, in wounds accompanied with excoriation from the discharges they emit, and in wounds attended with a burning sensation of pain.” (.P.182.) From the poisonous qualities of lead, when taken into the system, and from the possibility of this mineral being absorbed from the surface of the body, objections have arisen against the lree use of its preparations, even as outward re- medies in cases of inflammation. Certain it is, however, that, though the possibility of such absorption is proved by the occurrence of the disorder called the colic a pictonum, which ori- ginates in painters from the white lead absorbed into the system, yet, any ill effects from the use of lead, as an application to inflamed parts, are so exceedingly rare, that they can hardly form a serious objection to the practice. It is a fact, ffiat, in inflamed parts, there is an impediment to absorption, and this circumstance may tend to render the employment of lead a matter of safety’. Mr. B. Bell observes, that in all the ex- perience which he had had of the external appli- cation of lead and its preparations, and in many cases, particularly’ of burns, where he had known the greatest part of the surface of the body co- vered with applications of this description for days, nay7, for weeks together, he did not recol- lect a single instance of any disagreeable sym- ptom being ever produced by them. Nor has Dr. Thomson ever seen the eolica pictonum follow the use of Goulard. (See Lectures on Inflammation, p. 183.) A lotion composed of acetite of lead, vinegar, and water, is very commonly employed, Plumbi Acetatis ^ss. Solve in Acet. pur. ^iv. Et adde Aq. Fontanae distill. Jjjij. The vinegar makes the solution more complete. In all common cases, a teaspoonful of the liquor plumbi acetatis, blended with a pint of water, will be found an eligible lotion. Occasionally, bread-crumb is moistened in the fluid, and applied in the form of a poultice; but linen dipped in the lotion, and kept constantly wet with it, is mostly pre- ferred. Thus a continual evaporation is main- tained, and of course a regular abstraction of heat. When the surgeon is afraid of employing a solution of lead, he may try one of the sulphate of zinc. One dram of this substance is to be dissolved in a pint of water, and linen, well wet with the lotion, is to be applied to the inflamed part. Many practitioners impute very little real efficacy either to the acetite of lead, or sulphate of zinc, contained in the above applications : and they attribute all the good, that is produced, en- tirely to the evaporation kept up from the sur- face of the inflamed part, and to the coldness of the fluid, in which the metallic salts are dissolved. Surgeons, who entertain these sentiments, think the application of simple cold water quite as efficacious as that of any medicated lotions. There are particular cases of inflammation, in which the extravasation of blood and lymph, in the interstices of the inflamed part, is exceed- ingly copious, and the swelling considerable, but the pain and redness not particularly great. In such instances, it is an indication to rouse the action of the absorbents, in order that those vessels may remove the extravasated fluid, and with this view, a more powerful discutient lotion may be employ’ed than in other cases, and some- times, it is even better to use embrocations and liniments, than any sort of lotion. The follow- ing discutient lotions are often employed: — Re- Ammoniae Muriatse ^ss. Aceti; Spiritus Vini rectificati; sing. jRj. M. j^,. Liq. Ammon. Acet. Spir. Vini reetif.; Aq. Distil- latae; sing. ^iv. M. The Liq. Ammoniac Acet. also alone answers very well When the part affected with inflammation is not very tender, or when it lies deep, applica- tions of the vegetable acid are often had recourse to with considerable advantage; and the most effectual form of using it seems to be a poultice made with vinegar and crumb of bread. In such cases, it has been thought, that an alternate use of this remedy, and the saturnine lotion, has pro- duced more beneficial effects, than are commonly observed Iroin u continued use of one ol thou.