222 BLEEDING. almost close to the nrtery, and nothing is then more easy than to transfix the first of these ves- sels and wound the last. Hence Richerand ad- vises all beginners to prefer opening the median cephalic, or even the trunk of the cephalic itself, to puncturing either the basilic, or the median basilic, which last are internally situated, and nearer the brachial artery. (Nusographie Clii- rur%icale, t. 3. p. 38 i. edit . 2.) In fat subjects, the large veins at the bend of the arm are sometimes totally imperceptible, notwithstanding the fillet is tightly applied, the limb is put in warm water, and every thing done to make those vessels as turgid as possible. In this circumstance, if the surgeon has not had much experience in the practice of venesection, he will do well to be content with opening one of the veins of the back of the hand, after putting the member for some time in warm water, and applying a ligature round the wrist. In children, a sufficient quantity of blood cannot always be obtained by venesection, and, in this event, the free application of leeches, and, occasionally, the puncture of the temporal artery, are the only effectual methods. With respect to the choice of a vein in the arm, the most experienced operators give the pre- ference to one which rolls least under the skin. Such a vessel, though sometimes less superficial than another, may commonly be opened with greater facility. The surgeon, however, is al- ways to fix the vein as much as he can, by placing the thumb of his left hand a little below the place where he intends to introduce the lancet. In bleeding in the arm, the fillet is to be tied round the limb, a little above the elbow, with sufficient tightness to intercept the passage of the blood through all the superficial veins; but never so as to stop the flow of blood through the arteries, which would tend to prevent the veins from rising at all. The veins being thus ren- dered turgid, the surgeon must choose the one which seems most conveniently situated for being opened, and large enough to furnish as much blood as it maybe proper to take away. Before applying the fillet round the arm, how- ever, the operator should always feel where the pulsation of the artery is situated, and, if equally convenient, he should not open the vein imme- diately over this part. It is also prudent to examine where a pulsation is situated, on account of the occasional varieties in the distribution of the arteries of the arm. The ulnar artery is sometimes given off from the brachial very high up, and, in this case, it frequently proceeds su- perficially over the muscles, arising from the internal condyle, instead of diving under them, in the ordinary manner. When the external jugular vein is to be opened, the surgeon generally makes the necessary pres- sure with his thumb. The orifice should be made in the direction of the fibres of the platysma myoides muscle; and the vein is not so apt to glide out of the wav, when the surgeon makes thejjuueture just where it lies over a part of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus muscle. When blood is to be taken from the foot, the ligature is commonly applied a little above the ankle. The fillet 1 laving been put on the arm, the operator is to take the blade of the lancet, bent to a somewhat acute angle, between the thun* : and fore-finger, and, steadying his hand upu the other three fingers, he is to introduce tli(« lancet, in an oblique direction, into the vessel till the blood rises up at the point of the instrij ment. Then bringing up the front edge in straight a line as possible, the wound in the skt| will be made of just the same size as that in tiii vein. The operator next takes away the thumj of his left hand, with which he steadied the vessel and allows the blood to escape freely', till the del sired quantity is obtained. The arm ought to b| kept in the same position while the blood i. escaping, lest the skin should slip over the orifict i of the vein, keep the blood from getting out, ana make it insinuate itself into the cellular sub- stance. When the blood does not issue freely, however} most surgeons direct the patient to move his fingers, or turn something round and round ir| his hand. This puts the muscles of the arm intd action, and the pressure they then make on thg veins, makes the blood circulate more briskly} through these vessels. The proper quantity of blood being discharged,, the fillet is to be untied. The flow of blood now generally' ceases ; though sometimes, when the: orifice is large, and the circulation very vigorous, it still continues. In this circumstance, the operator may immediately stop the bleeding, by placing the thumb of his left hand firmly on the vessel, a little below the puncture. The blood is next to be all washed off the arm, the sides of the wound placed in contact, and the compresses applied, and secured with the fillet, put round the elbow in the form of a figure of 8, and regularly crossing just over the compresses. The patient should be advised not to move his arm much till the fillet is removed, which maybe done after twenty'-four hours. In order to open the external jugular vein, the patient’s head is to be laid on one side, and properly supported. Then the operator is to press upon the lower part of the vein with his thumb, so as to make the part above swell, and then the lancet is to be pushed at once into the vessel, with the cautions already' stated. There is commonly no difficulty in stopping the bleeding, after the pressure is removed. Some practitioners have directed a scalpel to be used for dividing the integuments, before opening the vein itself; but this is quite unnecessary. Blood-letting in the feet is executed on the same principle as in other parts : but the blood from the veins in this situation, in general, not flowing with much celerity, it is customary to immerse the feet in warm water, in order to pro- mote the bleeding. ARTJBRIOTOMY. The only' arteries of any size, from which blood is ever taken in practice, are the trunk and branches of the temporal artery', which lie in such a situation, that they may easily be compressed against the subjacent bones, and the bleeding stopped. When the vessel, which the surgeon chooses to open, lies very near the surface, or can be ascertained by feeling, or even seeing, its pulsation, it may be opened at once with a lancet. But, in many instances, it is so deeply situated, that