MORTIFICATION. 8l4 bone, and produced a separation of the affected limb. The disorder was attended with different symptoms in different individuals. Some suf- fered very violent pain, accompanied by an insufferable sensation of heat, although the part affected often felt cold to the touch. In other patients redness, with much swelling, super- vened, attended with fever and delirium. Other patients were without any fever, or delirium, though they seemed to suffer equal pain. In some patients, the parts affected became wither- ed, dry, and black, like charcoal. The sepa- ration of the dead parts from the living took place with the most excruciating pain, and a sensation resembling that produced by the direct application of fire. This sensation was some- times intermittent; and, in other instances, it was succeeded by an equally harassing sensation of cold. According to Bossau, surgeon to the hospital of St. Antoine, in Dauphiny, the cases, which he saw, were not all of the dry kind, the limb some- times becoming putrid, and maggots being ge- nerated. He says that the disease was not in- fectious, and it attacked indiscriminately men, women, and children. The degree of fatality caused by this species of mortification seems to have been extreme]}'- various. In the Memoirs of the Royal Aca- demy of Sciences for 1743, M. Buhamel men- tions, that of 120 persons afflicted, scarcely four or five recovered with their lives. According to Langius, it was equally fatal in Switzerland. Dr; Thomson believes, that the preceding- sort of gangrene has never occurred in this country, excepting, perhaps, the cases recorded by Dr. Charlton Woolaston, in the Phil. Trans, for 1762 ; and which proceeded from eating un- sound wheat, not rye. (See Lectures on In- flammation, p. .748.) For further particulars, relating to this curious kind of mortification, I must refer the reader to this valuable work. The external causes of mortification, which are manifest, and act mechanically or chemically, are burns; excessive cold; the application of caustics; the presence of any ichorous, urinary, or fecal matter effused in the cellular substance; violent contusions, such as are produced by gunshot wounds, or bad fractures; the strangulation of a part, as in cases of hernia, or when polypi, or other tumors are tied; a high degree of inflam- mation ; and, lastly, every thing, that has the power of stopping the circulation and nervous energy in parts. (Lassus, Pathologic Chlr. T. 1, p. 34, 35.) Inflammation is one of the most frequent occasional causes of mortification. But, as we have already remarked, the death of a part may take place without any well-marked appearance of previous inflammatory .disorder; and the latter, even when present, has frequently less share in the mischief, than other incidental cir- cumstances, and is, in reality, only an effect of the very same cause, which produces the spha- celus itself. It is oftentimes a matter of doubt, whether actual inflammation precedes the occur- rence, or not; for a part, before it mortifies, is in certain instances only affected with pain, and with no degree of preternatural redness. Lastly, when mortification is, unquestionably, preceded bv inflammation, there are so many varieties of the disorder, depending on incidental causes, that these latter demand more attention than the in- flammation. (Richter, Anfangsgr. IS. 1, Hag. Mr. James enumerates the following circum- stances, as capable of influencing, in a very great degree, the disposition of inflammation to ter- minate in mortification. 1. The powers of the part, in which the inflammation occurs, being naturally weak, as in fibrous membranes, the scrotum, &c. 2. The remote supply of blood, or nervous energy, as in the lower extremities. Obstruction to the return of blood. 4. To the supply of blood. 5. Disease in the heart, or vessels. 6. Debility from age, habits of life, disorder of the digestive organs, or fever. 7. Poor living, foul air, improper food, scurvy, &c. 8. Impairment of organization from external injury. 9. Of the nervous power by poisons. 10. Undue excitement of weakened parts. 11. Depressing remedies. 12. Pressure and ten- sion. 13. Excessive violence of inflammatory action. 14. Peculiar disposition in the consti- tution. {James on Inflammation, p. 102 ) Healthy phlegmonous inflammation seldom ends in mortification, except when it is unusu- ally violent and extensive, Of all the inflammatory complaints, to which the system is liable, erysipelas is observed most frequently to terminate in gangrene; and when- ever phlegmon is, in any degree, conjoined with an erysipelatous affection, which It not unfre- quently is, it seems thereby to acquire the same tendency, being more difficult to Ring to reso- lution or suppuration than the true phlegmon, and more apt to run into a mortified state. The symptoms of mortification from inflam- mation take place variously, yet generally, as follows :—The pain and sympathetic fever sud- denly diminish, the part affected becomes soft, and of a livid colour, losing, at the same time, more or less of its natural warmth and sensi- bility. In some places, the cuticle is detached ; while, in other situations, vesicles arise, filled with a clear, or turbid fluid. Such is the state, to which we apply the term gangrene, and which stage of the disorder too often rapidly advances to sphacelus, when the part becomes a cold, black, fibrous, senseless substance, called in technical language a slough. It merits notice, however, that, “ in cases, in which gangrene immediately succeeds to inflam- mation, these two morbid states may, in some measure, be regarded as stages, or periods, of the same disease. They pass insensibly into one another; nor is it possible to say precisely where the one state ends, anu the other commences. The symptoms of inflammation, in these cases, do not disappear before those of gangrene come on ; but seem rather to undergo a gradual and almost imperceptible change, or conversion, into one another. The redness acquires a deeper Huge, and spreads farther, than formerly; the. swelling increases and becomes more, doughy ; and, in this incipient stage, the gangrene, parti- cularly when it attacks the cutaneous texture, often bears a considerable resemblance to ery- sipelas.” (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflam- mation, p. 506.) It is to be observed, also, that “ the part of the body which becomes affected with gangrene, decs