P P 2 HEA lipped in very cold water, or Schmucker’s frigo- itic lotion; and, where the symptoms increase, ir prove obstinate, blisters. Leeches are also requentlv of great service. I cannot conclude this article without advert- ing to the great propensity to relapse, after pa- tents have long appeared out of every danger om wounds of the head, the bad symptoms nmetimes coming on again, and proving fatal, any years after the original injury, as is ex- nplified in a case related in a work of high cha- pter. (See Sehmucker's Vermischte Sclirif- n. B. 1 ,p. 247.) Hippocrates, dc Capitis Vulncribus, 12mo. utetice, 1578. Jac. Berengarius, dc Fractura ranii. Bologna, 1513. James Yongc, bounds of the Brain proved curable, not only i the opinion and experience of many of the . st- authors, but the remarkable history of a ild cured of two very large depressions, with e loss of a great part of the skull ; a portion ' the brain also issuing through a penetrating ound of the dura and p'ia mater. 1 'lino. Loud. 582. J. J. Wepfer, Observations Medico- •acticcE dc Affcctibus Capitis internis et cx- rnis, Scaphusii, 1727. Murray, An post ravcm ah ictu vcl cas/t capitis percussionem, m juvantc ctiam itcrata tcrebrationc, dura eninx incisione aperiendu ? Lutet. Paris. 436. (Haller, Disp. Chir. 1, 97.) R. C. ■ragner, Dc Contrafssiira, Jena, 170S. latter. Disp. Chir. 1, 15.) J. C. Teubelcr, ? Vulncribus Cerebri non semper lethalibus, bake, 1760. J. Chr. Camerarius Dies. Inaug. hibens rarissimdm sanutionem Cerebri quas- di cum notabili substantive deperditione, 'thing. 1719. Alex. Camerarius et Th. Fr. iber De. Apostematc Pice Matris, Tubing. .22. J. A. Conradi, Dc Vulncrc fronti in- do, Lugd. 1722. M. E. Borctius et J. G. noldt, Dc Epilepsia ex Dcprcsso Cranio, ,-giomont, 1724. G. A. Langguth, Pro- amma de Sinus Frontalis Vulncrc sine tere- itionc curando, Witlemb. 1748. Chopart, emoire sur les lesions dc la Tetc par contre- ip, 8vo. Paris, 1771. J. La Fosse, Dc rebri Affcctibus a causis extends evidentibus, onsp. 1763. A. J. Van Hulst, De Cerebri sque membranarum inflammationc et sup- ’■atione occulta, Ghidlcnop. 1784. P.J. imclius, Dc Utilitate Incisionis integumen- urn Capitis in Lccsionibus Capitis, Sfc. Ael- e, 1788. Bordenave, in Mem. dc VAcad. Chirurgic, T. 2; Lc Dran, Traite dcs erations de Chirurgic. J. L. Petit. Trait6 Mai. Chir. T. I. Dense, Obs. on Wounds lie Head, 8vo. Lond. 1776. Pott on In- ks of the Head from External Violence; 'Vs Cases in Surgery; O' Ilalloran on the dif- nt Disorders arising from External Inju- of the Head, 8vo. Dublin, 1793. Some ' <e* in Desault’s Parisian Chirurgical Jour- t Mtmmre. sur les Plaics dc Tetc, in wres Chirurgicalcs de Desault, par Bichat, t; Lassus, Pathologic Chirurgicale, T. 2, !*>2, ^c. Edit. 1809- Schmucker's Wuhr- rnungen, B. 1 ; and Vermischte Chir. 'r if ten, B. 1 and 3, 8 vo. Bolin, 1785. herand, Nosographic Chir. T. 2, p. 230 11 ■ Edit. 4. ./. Aberncthy on Injuries of tliC a"» his Surgical Works, Veil, 2, Ed. IIEM 579 1811 ; Larrey, in Mem. dc Chir. Militaire, T. 2, 3, et 4, Hvo. Paris, 1812—1817; Dr. Hennen, Principles of Military Surgery, Ed. 2, 8vo. Edinb. I 820. The three last works, and those of Lc Dran, Petit, Desault and Bi- chat, Dense, O'Ilalloran, Pott, and Schmuckcr, deserve particular attention. Also Dr. J. Thom- son s Report of Observat ions made in the military hospitals in Belgium ; Edinb. 1816. HEMERALOPIA- According to M. Du- jardiu, this term is derived from l,yhn, the day, reXaof, blind, and the eye, and its right signi- fication is therefore inferred to be diurna ca:- citudo, or day-blindness. (See Journal dc Med. T. 19, p.348.) In the same sense, Dr. Hillary (Ohs. on the Diseases of Barbadocs, p. 298. Edit. 2.), and Dr. Heberden (Med. Trans. Vol. J, Art. 5.), have employed the term. Hemeralopia then, which is of very rare occurrence, stands in opposition to the nyctalopia of the ancients, or night-blindness. Numerous modern writers, however, have used these terms in the contrary sense; considering tile hemeral- opia, as denoting sight during the day, and blind- ness in the night; and nyctalopia, as expressing night-seeing, owl-sight, as the French call it, and blindness during the day-time. Hemeralopia, in the meaning of day-blind- ness, is a very uncommon affection. Dr. Hil- lary never met with but two examples. He mentions a report, however, that there are a people in Siam, in the East Indies, and also in Africa, who are subject to the disease of being blind in the day-time, and seeing well by night. {Mod. Univ. Hist. Vol. 7.) According to Sauvages, hemeralopia, (in his nomenclature called amblyopia crcpuscularis) was in some degree epidemic in the neighbour- hood of Montpellier, in the villages, in damp situations adjoining rivers, and it particularly affected the soldiers, who slept in the open damp air. They were cured, he says, by blistering, together with emetics and cathartics, and other evacuants. {Nosol. Method. Class 6, Gen. 3, Spec. 1.) See some ingenious observations on the sub- ject in Dr. Rees's Cyclopaedia, Art. Hemeral- opia, and by Mr. Bampfield in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 34, fyc. Scarpa, with the generality of modern writers, has considered hemeralopia as an affection, in which the patient sees very well in the day, hut not in the night-time. The abolition of eye-sight by night (observes Mr. Bampfield) has occurred in all ages, and is a common disease of seamen in the East and West Indies, Mediterranean, and in all hot and tropical countries and latitudes, and affects more or less the natives likewise of those regions of the globe. It also occurs frequently among soldiers in the East and West Indies ; but, he has been in- formed, that it is by no means so prevalent amongst them as sailors. It is not an uncommon complaint of the Lascars, employed in the East India Company’s ships, trading between India and Europe. It has very rarely indeed affected the officers of his Majesty’s, or of the Last India Company’s ships. Celsus has remarked, that women arid virgins, whoso menstrual returns are regular, arc exempt from this disease {lib. 6,