and lower extremities had been duly supplied with blood. This fluid, which could only pass from the heart with great difficulty, and in small quanti- ties, had, by regurgitating, lacerated the semi- lunar valves. (Mom. do l’Acad. Royal de Berlin, <7sj. Obs. \7 and IS.) A similar example is recorded by Sioerk. (Ann. illed. 11. p. 171.) An instance, in which a stricture was met with in the 'aorta, opposite to the termination of the canalis arteriosus, is described by Mr. A. Cooper. The little finger could hardly pass through the constriction, which impeded the course of the blood through the heart and lungs, and was at- tended with a considerable dilatation of the right ventricle. (Surgical Essays, Vol. 1. p. 103. 8oo. Loud. 1818.) OBLITERATION OF THE CAVITY OF THE AORTA. It is observed by Professor Scarpa, that the whole body may be regarded as an anastomosis of vessels, a vascular circle, and he contends, that this remark is so true, that even an oblitera- tion of the aorta itself, immediately below its arch, may take place, without the general circu- lation of the blood in the body being stopped. Such a disease of the aorta was seen by Paris in the body of a woman. While she lived, the blood, which was expelled from the heart, was transmitted into the trunk of the aorta, below the constriction, and it got there by passing through the subclavian, axillary, and cervical arteries, into the mammary, intercostal, diaphragmatic, and epigastric arteries. From these latter arte- ries-, the blood passed into the vessels of the thoracic and abdominal viscera, and those of the lower extremities. (See Dcsuuh's Journal, t. 2. p. 107. Brasdor, in Rdcueil Feriodiquc de la Sue. de Med. t. 3. JVo. 18.) Dr. Graham, of Glasgow, published another example, in which the aorta was completely ob- structed, just below the canalis arteriosus. The particulars are detailed in the Mcd.-Chir. Tram, vol. 5. p. 287. Dr. Goodison, of Wicklow, in examining the dead body of a woman, in the Hospice de la Pitie at Paris, and endeavouring to trace the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, dis- cpvered a hard tumor, placed upon the aorta, and accompanied with an obliteration of that vessel from the origin of the inferior mesen- teric artery downwards the remainder of its length j the left iliac being also rendered im- pervious down to its bifurcation, and the right lor more than one half of its length. The cor- pora sesamoidea of the semilunar valves of the aorta were considerably enlarged, and the mitral and tricuspid valves presented the cppearances termed by Corvisart “ vegetations.” The arch of the aorta was greatly enlarged, and internally was studded with patches of bone. The vessels given oil Iron) the trunk, and especially the lum- bar arteries, were all noticed to be considerably increased in size. At the obliterated part of the !dKlominal aorta, there was n firm bony sheath, covering the vessel for about two inches, and died with a hard llesliy substance, which extended Hnl,er upwards, and was firmly adherent to the coat oi the artery. It was the inner coat itself " ,lc“ waa ossified. For a particular account of TA. 203 the vessels, which were chiefly enlarged for the purpose of continuing the circulation, I must refer to Dr. Goodison’s description. The general appearance of the body was not unhealthy ; and the lower extremities, which were not emaciated, must have been well supplied with blood. The history of the case could not be traced. Mr. Crampton having carefully compared Dr. Good- ison’s narrative with the preparation taken from this subject, refers the obliteration of the aorta to the effects of the process, by which an aneurism had been spontaneously cured; in which par- ticular, this case is quite different from those re- ported by M. Paris and Dr. Graham. (See Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. l2.p. 193, <£*c. 8vo. 1818.) The next case which I shall notice, is one of the most memorable in the annals of surgery, since it was nothing less than an operation, in which a ligature was applied to the aorta of a living subject, under circumstances which, as far as my judgment extends, warranted even this desperate attempt to preserve life. Mr. A. Cooper had often placed ligatures round the aorta in dogs, and found that the blood was readily carried by the anastomoses to their posterior extremities. (See Med. Ciiir. Trans, vol. '2,p. 158.) A porter, aged thirty-eight, was admitted into Guy’s Hos- pital April 9, 1817, for an aneurism in the left groin, situated partly above, and partly below, Pou- part’s ligament. The swelling was considearbly diffused, and pressure upon it gave a great deal of pain. On the third day from his entrance into the hospital, the tumor increased to double its former size, and the pulsation became less dis- tinct. The blood could be felt in a fluid state within the sac, which was so large that no opera- tion was practicable, without opening the peri- toneum. Mr. A. Cooper therefore waited, in order to let the man have the chance of a spon- taneous cure. Notwithstanding the practice of venesection and compression, the swelling con- tinued to increase, and, on the 20th of June, a bleeding took place from a point of the tumor, wdiere a slough had formed. The bleeding re- curred from time to time, and on the 25th he was so much exhausted by loss of blood that his feces passed involuntarily, and his immediate death was only prevented by pressure on the opening. At nine o’clock in the evening, this experienced surgeon made a small incision into the sac above Poupart’s ligament, and introducing his linger, tried if it were practicable to pass a ligature round the external iliac artery, within the cavity j but the thing was found impossible, as, instead of the vessel, “ only a chaos of broken coagula” could be perceived. At the moment of withdrawing the finger, two students compressed the aorta against tlje spine, and the incision was then closed with a dossil of lint. Mr. A. Cooper now de- termined to apply a ligature to the aorta itself. “ I made (says he) an incision, three inches long, into the lineaulba, giving it a slight curve, to avoid the umbilicus. One inch and a hull was above, and the remainder below, the navel,” the cut being inclined towards the left side. “ Having divided the linea alba, I made a small aperture into the peritoneum, and introduced my linger into the abdomen; and then, with a probe-pointed bistoury, enlarged the opening into the peri- toneum to nearly the same extent ns that of the