ANEURISM. 165 Another example, in which the carotid artery was tied, and the patient saved, in a case.where it was wounded with a penknife, has been re- cently published by Dr. John Brown, surgeon to the county of Meath Infirmary. (See Dublin Hospital Reports, v»l. 1. p. SOI, In this instance, the internal jugular vein “ did not ap- pear, nor was it a source of the slightest incon- venience during the operation.” (P. 305.) A case, very analogous to the foregoing, is recorded by Mr. Hodgson, and the event equally suc- cessful. “ The jugular vein afforded no trouble in the operation : it was not even seen.” A gradual improvement of the power of deglutition marked the gradual subsidence of the tumor, which pressed against the pharynx. Nor was any change perceived in the state of the patient s mind after this operation, who remained as she had been previously, melancholy and dejected. (P. 332.) Acrel mentions an example, in which the ca- rotid artery was wounded by a gunshot, and the hemorrhage permanently stopped by compression. A similar case is related by "V an Horne, in his annotations to the work of Botallus. (De I uln. Ss'opeti'.) Baron Larrey has likewise related a case, in which the carotid was wounded by a musket-ball, and life saved by the instant appli- cation of pressure, (AJem. de Chir. Mil. t. 1. p. 309.) However, considering the size of the vessel, and its unfavourable situation for being effectually and steadily compressed, some doubts may be entertained, whether the vessel wounded might not rather have been one of its branches. On Friday, November I, 1805, Mr. A.Cooper operated on Alary Edwards, aged forty-four, who had an aneurism of the right carotid artery. At this time, the tumor reached from the vicinity of the chin to beyond the angle of the jaw, and downward to within two inches and a half from the clavicle. The swelling had a strong pulsatory motion. The woman also complained of a particular ten- derness of the scalp, on the same side of the head, and of such a throbbing in the brain, as pre- vented her from sleeping. An incision, two inches long, was made at the inner edge of the sterno-deido-mastoideus muscle, from the lower part of the tumor to the clavicle. This wound exposed the omo-hyoideus and sterno-hyoideus muscles, which being drawn aside towards the trachea, the jugular vein pre- sented itself to view. The motion of this vein produced the only difficulty in the operation, as, under the different states of breathing, the vessel sometimes became tense and distended under the knife, and then suddenly collapsed. Air. A. Cooper introduced his finger into the wound to keep the vein out of the way of the knife, and, having exposed the carotid artery by another cut, he passed two ligatures under this vessel by means of a curved aneurism-needle. Care was taken to exclude the recurrent nerve on the one band, and the par vagum on the other. The ligatures were then tied about half an inch asunder; but the intervening portion of the artery was left undivided. I he pulsation of the swelling ceased immedi- ately the vessel was tied, and, on the day after the operation, the throbbing in the brain had subsided, while no diminution of nervous energy in any part of the body could be observed. The patient was occasionally afflicted with bad fits of coughing, but, upon the whole, went on at first pretty well. On the eightli day, however, a paralysis of the left leg and arm was noticed, attended with a great deal of constitutional irri- tation. November 8th, the patient could move her arm rather better; but became unable to swallow solids. Nov. 12th, the palsy of her arm had now almost disappeared. The ligatures came away. November 14th, she was in every re- spect better; she swallowed with less difficulty; and the tumor was smaller, and quite free from pain. On the 17th, she became very ill; the tumor increased in size, and was sore when pressed. The wound was as large as immediately after the operation, and discharged a sanious serum. Great difficulty of swallowing, and a most distressing cough, were also experienced. The pulse was ninety-six, and the left arm again very weak. On the 21 st, the patient died, the difficulty of swallowing having previously become still greater, attended with a further increase of the tumor, the skin over which had acquired a brownish red colour. On opening the swelling after death, the aneurismal sac was found inflamed, and the clot of blood in it was surrounded with a considerable quantity of pus. The inflammation extended on the outside of the sac, along the par vagum, nearly to the basis of the skull. The glottis was almost closed, and the lining of the trachea was inflamed and covered with coagulating lymph. The pharynx was so compressed by the tumor, which had been suddenly enlarged by the in- flammation, that a bougie, of the size of a goose- quill, could hardly be introduced into the oeso- phagus. Air. Cooper concludes with expressing his opinion, that these causes of failure may, in future, be avoided by operating beforethe tumour is of such size as to male jircssureon important parts ; nr, if the swelling should be large, by opening it,, and letting nut its contents, as soon as inflamma- tion comes on. (See Mrd.-ChiTrans, xml. 1.) Air. Cline operated for a carotid aneurism, December 16, 1808, in St. Thomas’s Hospital. The tumor was very large, and had increased with great rapidity. The pressure of the swelling was such, as to interrupt both respiration and deglutition, and to put the larynx out of its na- tural position. The patient had besides a fre- quent and troublesome cough. The pain was confined to the tumor and same side of the face. These symptoms seemed relieved during the first twelve hours after the operation. They then became vTorse, particularly the cough and difficulty of breathing, and a violent irritative fever took place. The man died on the 19th of the same month, (iicc London Med. Review, No. 3.) In the month of June 1808, Air. Astley Cooper operated, in Guy’s Hospital, on a man, aged 50, who had a carotid aneurism, attended with pain on one side of the head, throbbing in the brain, hoarseness, cough, slight difficulty ot breathing, nausea, giddiness, &c. The patient got quite well, and resumed bis occupation ns a porter. There was afterwards no perceptible pulsation in the facial and temporal arteries ot the aneurismal side of the face. Du the opposite side, the tempm d artery be- came unusually large. The tumor was at last AI 2