954 PUPIL. opaque. In such an example, Scarpa recom- mends making a small incision in the cornea at the most commodious part, when with Maunoir’s scissars closed, and constructed with little buttons at the ends of both the blades, an endeavour is to be made to break the adhesion existing be- tween the iris and the cornea. If this can be effected, the natural pupil generally recovers its former situation and size; but, if the adhesion be very firm, Scarpa introduces one of the blades within the contracted pupil, behind the posterior surface of the iris, until the other blade has reached the confines of the cornea with the scle- rotica. The iris is then to be divided in the form of the letter V, without at all injuring the cap- sule, or lens, both of which are transparent. (On the Principal Diseases of the Eyes, p. S84, Ed. 2. Transl. by Briggs.) Wherr, after ex- traction of the cataract, the pupil has been drag- ged down in this manner by adhesion to the lower third of the cornea, the upper two-thirds of which are transparent. Dr. Monteath, of Glas- gow, has succeeded five times in forming an ar- tificial pupil, and restoring vision by making a small opening in the upper and outer part of the edge of the cornea, capable of admitting Mau- noir’s eye-scissars, with which the overstretched fibres of the iris are to be cut across by one sim- ple incision, three lines in lengtii. The cut edges instantly recede, and leave an oval pupil of suf- ficient size. (See Weller’s Manual, Vol. 2, p. 70.) In the cases, above specified by Scarpa, Sir Wm. Adams, instead of performing coroto- mia, endeavours to separate the iris from the cornea, and then to alter the position of the pupil by drawing it towards that part of the cornea, which has remained transparent. For this pur- pose, he punctures the cornea about one line in front of the iris, separates the adhesion, and then makes the disengaged portion of the iris protrude through the puncture, and leaves it there, even using the forceps, if necessary, for drawing it out as far as is deemed necessary for its being se- curely fixed. This method is disapproved of by Scarpa, because a second prolapsus of the iris in the same eye appears to him a very serious dis- ease, and rather calculated to increase the opa- city of the cornea, and augment the contraction of the pupil, than afford relief. According to Beer, the excision of a portion of the iris, corcctomia is particularly indicated in all cases, in which there is a sound transpa- rent lens, as in many examples of synechia an- terior, concealment of the natural pupil by a cen- tral opacity of the cornea, &c. Beer admits, however, as an exception, the instances, in which the transparent portion of the cornea is so small, that no opening can be made in it with the knife, large enough to permit the iris to be taken hold of with a small hook, or forceps, and a piece of it cut out above the ciliary processes. (B. 2, p. 200.) The reason here given, does not appear to myself very strong, because it may be asked, why not acquire more room by cutting a portion of the opaque part of the cornea? Weller assigns a better reason against corectomia, viz. when he refers to the risk of a sufficient piece of the cor- nea not being left transparent, opposite the new iridis consequent to tho operation of extracting the cataract, when the surgeon is certain, that no coagulating lymph, effused during the pre- vious inflammation, in the posterior chamber, reaches above the lesser circle of the uvea, or is conjoined with opacity of the remaining capsule of the lens. The first state may be learned from the singular colour and form of the greater ring of the iris ; the second, from the very indistinct > manner, in which the patient is sensible of the different degrees of light. (Beer, B. 2, p. 200.) The excision of a piece of the iris, says Beer, requires the preliminary formation of a flap in the cornea, one line in length, with the cataract knife, and as close as possible to the sclerotica, so that no subsequent opaque cicatrix may in- terfere with the success of the operation. The second part of the business, viz. the excision of a piece of the iris, must be done in three ways, according to circumstances. 1st. The iris may be nowhere preternaturally adherent to the cor- nea, in which case, after an opening has been made in the latter membrane, the iris is propel- led out between the edges of the wound by the aqueous humour, yet left in the posterior cham- ber, which opportunity the surgeon must im- mediately avail himself of for taking hold of the projecting piece of the iris with a very fine hook, and cutting it off with Daviel’s scissars. The remainder of the iris is instantly retracted behind the cornea, and a well-formed pupil is immedi- diately seen. 2. Only the part of the edge of the pupil may remain not adherent to and drawn towards the cornea, where it is intended to form the artificial pupil; a state, best ascertained by a lateral inspection of the eye. In this case, after opening the cornea, Beer says, the operator is directly to introduce a small hook between the iris and cornea, so as not to injuie either of these parts with its point, and he is then, with the in- strument directed obliquely, to get hold of the pupillary edge of the iris, and, while the iris is drawn out between the edges of the incision, the projecting piece is to be cut ofi’ with Daviel’s scissars. Thus, the natural pupil is to be ex- tended behind the transparent part of the cornea, towards the edge of this membrane. 3. rI lie pupillary edge of the iris may be adherent to the cornea exactly in the situation, where the arti- ficial pupil is to be formed: in this case, Beer directs the iris to be taken hold of at its greater circle with the hook, or, (if this should tear its way out) with a pair of fine-pointed forceps with teeth, drawn out between the edges of the wound, and the point of the cone, thus produced, cut off somewhat within the edges of the wound, as drawing the iris further out might tear it, and have a prejudicial effect. In all these cases, says Beer, the undiseased lens and its capsule will not be injured, if the patient keep tolerably steady, and the operator have already acquired dexterity in the extraction of the cataract. The operation being finished, the subsequent treatment is like that generally adopted after the extraction of the cataract. (See Cataract.) When corectomia is to be performed for a closure of the pupil, con- sequent to extraction of the cataract, Beer par- firMilnrlv rpennimpinlk flip fnrccilS to be USCU,