120 G WOUNDS. would lie impossible to dispense with sutures. If, for instance, the belly were torn open from one side to the other with a bullock’s horn ; or if it were extensively divided with the tusks of a wild boar, a stag’s horn, a razor, &c. and the in- flated intestines could not be kept from protrud- ing; some stitches would be absolutely neces- sary, but, even then, they should be as few as possible. (Sabatier, Mtdecine Operatoire, T. 1, p. *214, edit. 2.) “ Our good old surgeon Wiseman (observes Mr. John Bell) has said with great simplicity, as a great many have said after him, ‘ it fre- quently happened), that a sword passeth through the body, without wounding any considerable part.’ He means, that a rapier, or ball, often passes quite across the belly, in at the navel, and out at the back, and that without one bad sign, the patient recovers, and as has very often hap- pened, walks abroad in good health, in eight days; which speedy cure has been supposed to imply a simple wound, in which all the bowels have escaped. But, we see now, how this is to be explained; for, we know, that in a thrust across the abdomen, six turns of intestine maybe wounded,—each wound may adhere; adhesion, we know, is begun in a few hours, and is perfect- ed in a few days; and, when it is perfect, all danger of inflammation is over; and when the danger of inflammation is over, the patient may walk abroad; so that we may do, just as old Wiseman did in the case, here alluded to, (P. 98, the case of a man, who was wounded across the belly, and well and abroad, in seven days,) ‘ Bleed him, and advise him to keep his bed and be quiet.’ In short, a man, thus wounded, if he be kept low, has his chance of escaping by an adhesion of the internal wounds.” (Discourses on the Nature and Cure of Wounds, p. 329, 330, edit. 3.) The truth of these observations is well illus- trated in a case mentioned by Dr. Hennen, in which a soldier recovered, whose abdomen was pierced with a ramrod, which stuck so fast in the. vertebrae, that some force was required to dis- engage it. (On Military Surgery, p. 402, ed. 2 ) When a man is stabbed, or shot in the belly, and none of the bowels protrude, the wisest plan is to keep the patient as quiet as possible, have recourse to copious and repeated bleeding, pre- scribe anodynes, and the lowest fluid diet, and apply l'ght superficial unirritating dressings. In the event of severe pain and swelling of the belly coming on, leeches, fomentations, the warm bath, and emollient poultices, will be necessary, and no- thing will now avail, except the most rigorous em- ployment of antiphlogistic remedies. As Dr. Hen- nen observes, the best means of emptying the bowels are oleaginous clysters, and, if any internal medicine be given, as a purgative, it should be of the mildest nature. (On Military Surgery, p. 402, ed. 2.) Castor oil is perhaps the best; but, on the whole, for some few days, I would hardly venture beyond the use of clysters for pro- curing evacuations from the bowels. Suppuration in the Abdomen, in consequence of Wounds.— Abscesses within the bag of the peritoneum are far from being common. As a late writer well observes. “ the containing and other an uniform and continuous surface of mem- brane. This membrane is of the serous class, and the species of inflammation, to which it is especially subject, is that, which has been deno- minated the adhesive. The membrane, lining the intestinal canal, is of the mucous class, and the ulcerative inflammation is the species, to which this class is liable. This beneficent pro- vision is an irresistible evidence of the operation of a salutary principle in disease. If the inflam- ed peritoneum had run directly into suppuration ; ulceration of the surrounding parts would have been required for an outlet; and if the internal surface of the irritated bowel had tended to form adhesions, the canal would have been in constant danger of obliteration.” ( Travers on Injuries of the Intestines, S^c. p. 10.) That collections of matter, however, do some- times take place in the cavity of the abdomen, in consequence of wounds, is a fact, of which there are too many proofs on record, for the possibility of the case to be doubted At this moment, be it sufficient to refer to two examples of the oc- currence, as related by Mr. B. Bell. (System of Surgery, Vol. 5, p. 250.) If the abscess were in any other part of the body, and did not readily point, the wisest prac- tice would undoubtedly be to make an opening sufficient for the evacuation of the matter. But suppuration in the abdomen can seldom be known with certainty in an early stage of the case : for, the abscess is so deep, that no fluctuation, nor swelling, is perceptible, until the quantity of pus is considerable. Nor would it be judicious to ex- pose the patient to the hazard, which might arise from making an opening into the abdomen, mere- ly for the sake of discharging a small quantity of matter. Many writers impute much of the danger of wounds of the abdomen to the entrance of air into the cavity of the peritoneum. In inculcat- ing such opinions, however, they betray an inac- curacy of observation, which a very little reflec- tion would have set right. Too much stress has long been laid on the introduction of air into the abdomen, as being a cause of inflammation. The fact is, the cavity of the belly is always so com- pletely occupied by the several viscera, that the whole inner surface of the peritoneum is invari- ably in close contact with them, and, therefore, air'cannot easily diffuse itself from the wound, throughout the abdomen. After tapping, in dropsical cases, inflammation seldom arises, though here the air has quite as good an oppor- tunity of entering the abdomen, as in any case of wound. The peritoneum in animals has been inflated, without any inflammation being excited. In cases of tympanitis, the peritoneum is dis- tended with air, and yet both this membrane and the bowels are quite uninflamed. In the human subject, it seems probable, that, if a wound were made in a vacuum, the breach of continuity itself would be an adequate cause of inflammation. It may also be remarked, that collections of matter in the abdomen arc almost always completely circumscribed, and separated from the general cavity of the peritoneum, by the adhesion of the viscera to each other, and to the inside of the pe- ritoneum. I am of opinion, that no surgical writer has