408 ECTROPIUM. cannot be accomplished with equal perfection in both its forms, the second species being, in some cases, absolutely incurable. For, as in the first species of ectropium, the disease only depends upon a morbid intumescence of the internal mem- brane of the eyelids, and the treatment merely consists in removing the redundant portion, art possesses many efficacious means of accomplish- ing what is desired. But, in the second species of ectropium, the chief cause of which arises from the loss of a portion of the skin of the eyelids, or adjacent parts, which loss no known artifice can restore, surgery is not capable of effecting a per- fect cure of the malady. The treatment is con- fined to remedying, as much as possible, such complaints as result from this kind of eversion, and this can be done in a more or less satisfac- tory manner, according as the loss of skin of the eyelid is little, or great. Cases, in which so much skin is deficient, that the edge of the eye- lid is adherent to the margin of the orbit, Scarpa abandons as incurable. Si vimium palpehuz deest, says Celsus, ivilht hi restituere curntio po- test; (bb. 7 cip. 7.) In the second species of ectropium, Scarpa thinks, that the degree of suc- cess attending the cure, may always be estimated, by remarking to what point the eyelid admits of being replaced, on being gently pushed, with the end of the finger, towards the globe of the eye, both before and after the employment of such ■means as are calculated to effect an elongation of the skib of the eyelid; for, it is to this point, and no further, that art can reduce the everted part, and permanently keep it so replaced. When the first species of ectropium is recent, the fungous swelling of the lining of the eyelid not considerable, and, consequently, the edge of the eyelid not much turned out. and in young subjects (for in old ones the eyelids are so flaccid, that the disease is irremediable) Scarpa prefers destroying the fungous surface of the internal membrane of the eyelid by the repeated applica- tion of the argentum nitratum. In recent cases, where the patient is weak and irritable, (or a child) Beer commences the treatment with simply ap- plying every day the tincture of opium, which, after a time, is to be strengthened by the addi- tion of naptha. To the relaxed conjunctiva he afterwards applies escharotic eyesalves, and. last of all, the nitrate of silver, and muriate of anti- mony. Where the part is hard and callous, he precedes the employment of caustic by scarifica- tions (Le/ire, dS'r. B. 2, p. 136.) For remedying the considerable and inveterate form of the first species of the disease, the quick- est and surest plan is to cut away the whole of the fungous swelling closely from the muscular substance, on the inside of the eyelid. This is the advice both of Beer and Scaipa. And, in- deed, even in most cases which are not so slight, as to yield to mere astringent applications, this practice is now commonly preferred in this country to the use of caustic, the action of which is more tedious and painful, and less under con- trol. The following is Scarpa’s description of the operation. The patient being seated, with his head a little inclined backward, the surgeon, with the index and middle finger of his left hand, is firmly to keep the eyelid everted, and holding a small pair of curved scissars, with convex edges, in his right, he is completely to cut off the whole fungosity of the internal membrane of the eyelid, as near as possible to its base. The same operation is then to be repeated on the other eyelid, should that be affected with the same disorder. If the excrescence should be of such a shape, that it cannot be exactly included within the scissars, it must be raised as much as possible, with forceps, or a double pointed hook, and dissected off at its base, by means of a small bistoury with a convex edge. This last mode is preferred by Beer to the use of scissars, and I confess that it has always appeared to me the most convenient. The bleeding, which seems, at the beginning of the operation, as if it would be copious, stops of itself, or as soon as the eye is bathed with cold water. The surgeon is then to apply the dressings, which are to consist of two small compresses, one put on the upper, the other on the lower arch of the orbit, and over these the uniting bandage, in the form of the monoculus, or so applied as to compress and re- place the edges of the everted eyelids, in order to make them cover the eye. On the first re- moval of the dressings, which should take place about twenty-four or thirty hours after the opera- tion, the surgeon will find the whole, or almost the whole, of the eyelid, in its natural position. The treatment should afterwards consist in wash- ing the ulcer on the inside of the eyelid twice a day with simple water, or barley-water, and mel rosaj, until it is completely well. If, towards the end of the cure, the wound should assume a fun- gous appearance, or the edge of the eyelid seem to be too distant from the eyeball, the wound on the inside of the eyelid must be rubbed several times with the argentum nitratum, for the pur- pose of destroying a little more of the membra- nous lining, so that, when the cicatrization fol- lows, a greater contraction of it may take place, and the edge of the eyelid be drawn still nearer the eye. Proper steps must be taken, however, for resisting the principal cause on which the ec- tropium depends, particularly, chronic ophthal- my, a relaxed and varicous state of the con- junctiva, &c. (See Oiihihnlmv.) In the second species of ectropium, or that produced by an accidental contraction of the skin of the eyelids, or neighbouring parts, the cura- tive indication does in no respect differ from what it is in the foregoing instance. If a contraction of the integuments has proved capable of evert- ing the eyelid, the excision of a piece of the in- ternal membrane of the part, and the cicatrix which will follow, must also be capable, for the same reason, of bringing back the eyelid into its natural position. But, since nothing can restore the lost skin, the shortened state of the whole eyelid, in whatever degree it exists, must always continue, even after any operation the most skil- fully executed. Hence, the treatment of the se- cond species of ectropium will never succeed so perfectly as that of the first, and the replaced eyelid will always remain shorter than natural, in proportion to the quantity of integuments lost. It is true, that, in many cases, the eversion seems greater than it actually is, in regard to the small quantity of skin lost or destroyed ; for, when the disease has once begun, though the contraction of the skin may be trivial, in consequence of t|je little quantity of it deficient, still the swelling of