INFLAMMATION. 705 to 91 in 30 minutes; while it stood at 92 in another animal, treated exactly in the same way, with the omission of the artificial breathing. From these experiments, Mr. Brodie infers, that, in an animal in which the brain has ceased to exercise its functions, although respira- tion continues to be performed, and the circula- tion of the blood is kept up to the natural stand- ird, although the usual changes in the sensible qualities of the blood take place in the two capil- ary systems, and the same quantity of carbonic icid is formed as under ordinary circumstances ; io heat is generated, and (in consequence of the ;old air thrown into the lungs,) the animal cools nore rapidly, than one which is actually dead.” ' See Phil.' Trans, for 1811, p. 36; and for • 812, p. 378.) It appears certain, therefore, hat the generation of animal beat, either in an nflamed, or an uuinflamed part, can never be atisfactorily explained by any reference merely o chemical principles, and that the process is ■ssentialK connected with and influenced by the ;tate of the functions of the brain and nervous ivstem, and no doubt also by the principle of life tself. At the same time, I think, that any hy- lothesis, suggested without due reference to the •onnexion, which respiration has with this curious :nd interesting process, will never be established. Neither would I venture so far as Dr. Philip, vho believes, that animal heat is evolved by the ame means, by which the formation of the ecreted fluids is effected, viz. the action of ervous influence on the blood, and that the roduction of such heat is to be regarded as a ecretion. (On the Vital Functions, p. 169.J lowever, the influence of the nervous system ver this process must be allowed to be very reat, and may afford a more probable explanation f the cause of the local change of temperature a inflammation, than Dr. Crawford’s theory, ombined with the doctrine of increased action, nd an accelerated circulation in the vessels of he part affected. Buffi) coat.—The blood, when taken out of the ving vessels, spontaneously separates into two istinct parts, the serum and the crassamentum. .'he last is a compound substance, consisting hieflv «f coagulating lymph, and red globules, ie most heavy ingredients in the blood. Blood, iken away from persons affected with inflam- lation, is longer in coagulating, and coagulates lore firmly, than in other instances. Hence, le red globules, not being so soon entangled in ie lymph, descend, by their gravity, more deeply om its surface, which being more or less di- usted of the red coloring matter, is from its . ipeaiance termed the buffi/ coat, or injlam- ator;/ crust. The firmer and more compact >agulation of the lymph compresses out an un- >ual quantity of serum from it, and the surface ' the sizy blood is often formed into a hollow, e edges being drawn inward. {Hunter.) In •me cases, these changes in the blood are deemed ore infallible proof of the existence of inflam- ation, than the state of the pulse itself. They e, however, only a criterion of some unusual oration going on in the system ; for, the blood ken from pregnant women is always found to esent the same phenomena. In peritonaeal flarr.mation, the patient sometimes seems to be the most feeble state, and the pulse, abstractedly considered, would rather induce the practitioner to employ tonics, and stimulants, than evacua- tions ; but, should the continuance or exaspera- tion of the disorder, or any other reason, lead him to ,use the lancet, then the buffy coat, and the concave surface of the blood, materially obvi- ate any doubt of the existence of inflammation. Surgeons should never forget, however, that in a few anomalous constitutions, the blood, when drawn, always exhibits the above peculiarities. Terminations.—Inflammation is said to have three different terminations; or, in more correct language, we may say, that, after this process has continued a certain time, it either subsides entirely, induces a disposition in the vessels to form pus, or completely destroys the vitality of the part. When the inflammation is to end in the first manner, which is the most favourable, the pain becomes less, the swelling subsides, the fever, and every other symptom gradually abate, till at last the part is wholly restored to its natural size and colour. There is no formation of pus, nor any permanont injuiy of structure; and, if Dr. Philip’s theory of inflammation be correct, the debilitated capillaries are excited to due action by the increased action of the larger arteries. (On the vital Functions, p. 298.) This termination of inflammation is termed by surgeons resolution. It is fortunately the most common, as well as the most desirable manner, in which the affection ends. If, however, notwithstanding the application of the usual remedies, the several symptoms of heat, pain, and redness, instead of diminishing, rather increase; if the febrile symptoms are likewise augmented, and the tumor gradually acquires a larger size, turns soft, somewhat prominent in the middle, or towards its most depending part; if it should next acquire a clear shining appear- ance, and become less painful, the different sym- ptoms of fever being at the same time diminished, and a fluctuation perceptible in the tumor; the inflammation has ended in suppuration. The worst, but happily, the least frequent con- sequence of common inflammation, is the death, or mortification, of the part affected. In the microscopical experiment of Dr. Hastings, it was observed, that, on the approach of gangrene, the blood entirely loses its red colour, and ac- quires a yellowish brown tinge. (On Inflam- mation, p. 97.) The part, which was of a bright red, becomes of a livid hue; small vesicles, filled with a thin fetid serum, arise on its surface, and air is plainly felt within the cellular membrane. The pain is indeed diminished ; but the pulse sinks, while the tumor is gradually changed into a black, fibrous mass. These are the three common terminations of inflammation. In books, scirrhus is sometimes enumerated as one of the terminations of inflam- mation. The best modern surgeons, however, do not regard scirrhus as one of the usual effects of ordinary inflammation : “ the term scirrhus, as used by the older medical writers, is extremely indefinite, having been sometimes used to ex- press every kind of induration, which remained after an attack of inflammation, as well as the morbid incipient state of parts about to become affected with cancer. Surgeons now usually limit the use of the term to the last of these slc- Z Z