EMP word, in all affections of the parieles of the chest” (Richtrmd, Nosogr. Ciiir. 1. 4, p. 168, 169, Edit. 2.) It appears to me, that there may be some truth in the foregoing statement; but, the ex- periments are far from being conclusive, with respect to the assertion, that, in eases of empye- ma, hvdrothorax, &c. the fluid on one side of the chest does not compress the opposite lung. In the first place, the ijuantity of fluid is fre- quently much larger, than that which Richerand injected. Secondly, although the mediastinum may not be apt to yield at once to the weight of a liquid suddenly injected into one side of the thorax ; yet, it may do so by the gradual effect of disease. Thirdly, many of the phenomena of emphysema seem adverse to Richerand’s in- ference. Although surgeons rshould be aware, that pa- tients with empyema can sometimes lie in any position, without particular aggravation of the difficulty of breathing, yet, it ought to be dis- tinctly understood, that the generality of patients with this disease cannot place themselves on the side, opposite to that, on which the collection of pus is situated, without having their respiration very materially obstructed. Another circum- stance, also, which deserves to be mentioned while we are treating of the symptoms of empye- ma, is, that the oedema of the integuments is sometimes not confined to the thorax, but ex- tends to more remote parts, on the same side of the body as the collection of matter. Both the foregoing remarks are confirmed by an in- teresting case, which has been published by Mr. Hey, of Leeds. Sept. 3, 1783, Mr. Hey was desired to visit John Wilkinson, who had been ill ten days of the influenza. The patient was found labour- ing under a fever, attended with cough, difficulty of breathing, and pain in the left side of the tho- rax. He was bled once; had repeated blisters applied to the chest; and took nitre and antimo- nials, with a smooth linctus to allay his cough. He was repeatedly relieved by these means, especially by the application of the blisters; but repeatedly relapsed. At last, he became so ill, that he breathed with the utmost difficulty, and “could not lie on the right side, without danger of immediate suffocation.’’ Mr. Hey found the patient in the state, just now described, on the 17th of September. “ His face and especially his eyelid were a little swol- len on the left side.” The left side of the thorax was larger, than the right, and its integuments were oedematous. Upon pressing the intercos- ' tal muscles, they felt distended; they yielded a ■ little to a strong pressure, but rebounded again. 1 The abdomen, especially, at its upper part, ap- ; peared to be fuller, than in the natural state. (See //riy’s Practical Ohs. in Surgery, p. 476.) This last symptom is also particularly noticed by Boyer. (Mu/. Chir. T. 7,p. 357.) Another remarkable symptom, which is oc- casionally produced by collections of matter in the chest, is an alteration in the position of the heart. I have seen a patient in St. Bartholo- mew s hospital, who had so large a quantity of matter in the left bag of the pleura, that it com- pletely displaced the heart, which pulsated against the inside of the chest, at a considerable dis- YEMA. 4l9 tancc to the right of the sternum. This man’s life might probably have been saved, had para- centesis thoracis been performed in time. Some suspected an aneurism from the throbbing on the right of the sternum ; and the case was not fully understood till after death, when the body was opened. A little attention to the symptoms, however, might have convinced any man of moderate understanding, that it was an empye- ma, and that making an opening, for the dis- charge of the matter, afforded the only rational chance of preserving life. There had been pain and inflammation in the chest, followed by shi- verings; there was very great difficulty of breath- ing ; the heart, which previously used to beat in the usual place, no longer did so; but now, pul- sated on the right side of the thorax. That the heart should be displaced in this manner by any large collection of fluid in the right cavity of the thorax, one would naturally expect; but it is an occurrence, that has not been much noticed by surgical writers. Baron Larrey, however, has related a highly interesting case, where the heart was not only pushed con- siderably to the right of the sternum, but, its ac- tion was so much impeded by the derangement of its position, that the pulse in the large arteries wa» thereby rendered extremely feeble. In this instance, also, the diaphragm had descended so low down, as to force some of the small intes- tines into the cavity of the pelvis. (Memnires de Chfurgie Militaire, T. 3, p. 447, fyo.) Pelletan has also recorded an example, in which a collec- tion of fluid in the left cavity of the chest dis- placed the heart, the pulsations of which were perceptible betwixt the third and fourth ribs of the right side, near the sternum. (Clinique Chir„ T. 3, p. 276.) Baron Boyer speaks of one case, in which the displacement of the heart was so extensive, that its pulsations were felt near the right axilla. (Trait£ ties Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. 357.) In the anatomical collection at Stras- burgh, is also a preparation exhibiting the dis- placement of the heart into the right side of the chest, by matter in the left pleura, the left lung being nearly annihilated. (Lobstein compte de son Museum, Anat. p. 39, 8vo. 1820.) The heart is sometimes thrust downwards by collec- tions of fluid in the chest, and its pulsation is distinguishable in the epigastrium. ( Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 95.) When the cavity of the pleura contains fluid, and the surgeon strikes the thorax repeatedly with the ends of his fingers, a dull sound is said to be produced, quite different from what would occur, were the chest in its natural state. But, as Boyer remarks, this symptom, to which so much importance has of late been attached, being common to extravasations in the thorax, and several other diseases, will not denote empyema, unless combined with other, signs of this affec- tion. Nor will any useful information be derived from the above percussions, except the practi- tioner has had a good deal of experience in them, and they are repeatedly' practised with the patient in different positions. (Mol. Chir. 1.7, p« 357.) The symptoms of empyema are frequently very equivocal, and the existence ol the disease is generally somewhat doubtful. Panarolius opened a man, whose left lung was destroyed, at the same time that the thorax contained a con- E E 2