HEMORRHAGE. 590 veins, its application cannot be made very long without inducing mortification. It is only of use also in putting a sudden stop to profuse he- morrhages for a time, that is, until the surgeon has put in practice some means, the effect of which is more permanent. ligature. Ihe ancients were quite unacquainted with the use of the tourniquet, and though some of their writers have made mention of the ligature, they do not seem to have known how to make proper use of it, nor to have possessed any other certain means of suppressing hemorrhage from wounds. In modern times, it is easily compre- hensible, that when any great operation was un- dertaken, while surgery was so imperfect, there was more likelihood of the patient’s life being shortened, than lengthened by what was at- tempted. Under these'circumstances, it is not surprizing, that the old practitioners should have taken immense pains to invent a great many to- pical astringents. But, now that the ligature is known to be a means which is safer, and less painful, than former methods, no longer search need be made for specifics against hemorrhage. It may, indeed, be set down, as a rule in sur- gery, that whenever large arteries are wounded, no styptic application should ever be employed, but immediate recourse had to the ligature, as being, when properly applied, the most simple and safe of all methods. In order to qualify the reader to judge of the. best mode of applying ligatures to arteries, I shall first explain to- him their effect on these vessels, as related by Dr. Jones. This gentleman learned from Dr. J. Thom- son, of Edinburgh, that, in every instance in which a ligature is applied around an artery, without including the surrounding parts, the in- ternal coat of the vessel is torn through by it, and that this fact had been originally noticed by Desault. Dr. Thomson shewed to Dr. Jones, on a portion of artery taken from the human subject, that the internal and middle coats are divided by the ligature. {Jones, p. 126.) This led Dr. Jones to make some experi- ments on the arteries of dogs and horses, tend- ing to the conclusion, that when several liga- tures are applied round an artery with sufficient tightness to cut through its internal and middle coats, although the cords be immediately after- wards removed, the vessel will always become impervious at the part which was tied, as far as the first collateral branches above and below the obstructed part. Dr. Jones thinks it reasonable to expect, that the obstruction produced in the arteries of dogs and horses, in the manner he has related, “might be effected by the same treatment in the arteries of the human subject; and, if it should prove successful, it might be employed in some of the most important' case& in surgery. The success of the late important improvements which have been introduced in the operation for aneurism, may perhaps appear to most surgeons to have rendered that operation sufficiently simple and safe; but, if it be possible to produce obstruction in the canal of an artery of the human subject, in the above-mentioned manner, may it not be advantageously employed in the cure of aneurism; inasmuch as nothing need be done to prevent the immediate union of the external wound?” Dr. Jones next ques- tions, whether this mode of obstructing the pas- sage of blood through the arteries may not also be advantageously practised in cases of broncho- cele? (P. 136.) Subsequent experimenters, as a late writer ob- serves, have not, however, been equally success- ful with Dr. Jones in obtaining the obliteration of the cavity of the vessel after this operation. Mr. Hodgson tried the experiment in two in- stances upon the carotid arteries of dogs; and in neither of them was the cavity of the vessel ob- literated. The same experiment has been re- peated by several surgeons upon the arteries of dogs and horses ; but, in no example, as far as Mr. Hodgson knows, has the complete oblitera- tion of the cavity of the vessel been accomplished. “ It appears, however, that an effusion of lymph is an invariable consequence of the operation : the want of union is therefore owing to the opposite sides of the vessel not being retained in a state of contact, so as to allow of their adhesion. (See Observations on the Application of the Ligature to Arteries, <S[C. by B. Travers, Yol. 4, Med. Chir. Tram.) The presence of the ligature, in the common mode of its application, effects this object; and for the success of Dr. Jones’s experiment, it appeared only necessary, that the opposite sides of the wounded vessel should be retained in contact, until their adhesion is suf- ficiently accomplished to resist the passage of the blood through the tube. This object might pro- bably be effected by compression; but, the incon- veniences attending such a degree of pressure, as shall retain the opposite sides of an artery in con- tact at the bottom of a recent wound, are too great to permit its employment. It occurred to Mr. Travers, that if a ligature were applied to an artery, and suffered to remain only a few hours, the adhesion of the wounded surfaces would be sufficiently accomplished to ensure the oblitera- tion of the canal; and by the removal of the liga- ture at this period, the inconveniences attending its stay would be obviated. The danger pro- duced by the residence of a ligature upon an artery, arises from the irritation, which, as a fo- reign body, it produces in its coats. Ulceration has never been observed to commence in less than twenty-four hours after the application of a ligature; whilst it is an ascertained fact, that lymph is in a favourable state for organization in less than six hours, in a wound the sides of which are preserved in contact. {Jones, chap. 4. exp. 1.). If it be sufficient, therefore, to ensure their adhe- sion, that the wounded coats of an artery be kept in contact by a ligature only three or four hours, ulceration and sloughing may in a great degree be obviated by promoting the immediate adhe- sion of the wound. Justified by this reasoning, Mr Travers performed several experiments, by which he ascertained that if a ligature be kept six, two, or even -one hour upon the carotid artery of a horse, and then removed, the adhesion was sufficiently advanced to effect the permanent obliteration of the canal. It appeared probable, that the same result would lie obtained upon the healthy artery of a human subject.’’ Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries, c£r. p. 228, et seq.) Mr. A. C. Hutchison, in the year 1800, tied the brachial arteries of two dogs, and removed