MORTIFICATION. 817 coloured ; sometimes black. It is not always easy to judge of the extent of mortification from the appearance of the skin; for, when the sub- jacent cellular membrane is affected, the disorder may occupy a greater extent internally, than upon the surface. In a spreading gangrene, the red colour of the affected skin is insensibly lost in the surrounding integuments; but, when gangrene, followed by sphacelus, stops, a red line, of a colour more lively than that of gangrene, is generally per- ceptible between the dead and living parts. It is at the inner edge of this inllamed line, where we usually see the ulcerating process begin, by which the separation of the dead from the living parts is affected. (.See Thomson’s Lectures on Inflammation, p. 511, 512.) Mortification occurs frequently in cellular texture. The skin, which covers dead cellular substance, generally has a gangrenous appear- ance, and afterwards either ulcerates, or sloughs. In some cases, the portion of sphacelated cellular texture is small, as in the malignant boil; in others, extensive, as in cases of carbuncle. In erysipelas phlegmonoides, the cellular membrane, connecting together the muscles, tendons, nerves, blood-vessels, &c. often perishes to a great extent. Here large portions of skin are frequently also destroyed by sloughing, or ulce- ration, so that muscle, blood-vessel, tendon, nerve, &c. are exposed to view, quite denuded of their proper coverings, and in different states of disease. Artery is the texture, endowed with the great- est power of resisting its own destruction by mor- tification. “ I have (says Dr. Thomson) in various instances of erysipelas phlegmonoides, seen several inches of the femoral artery laid completely bare by the gangrene, ulceration, and sphacelus of the parts covering it, without its giving way before death. The arteries in these, and other similar instances, in which I have seen them laid bare in the neck and arm, by ab- scess terminating in mortification, had the ap- pearance of raw flesh, and were obviously thicker and more vascular than natural. The blood cir- culated through them, and assisted in supplying with nourishment the parts upon which they were distributed.” (P. 518.) I have often seen the truth of the foregoing statement sadly illus- trated in cases of sloughing buboes, by which several inches of the femoral artery were exposed. I have seen the throbbing brachial artery de- nuded for more than a month, nearly its whole extent along the inside of the arm, by the ra- vages of malignant and pseudo-syphilic ulceration, attended with repeated sloughing; and yet he- morrhage had no share in carrying off’ the unfor- tunate patient. It it a curious fact, that the blood coagulates m the large arteries, which lead to a mortified part. This occurrence takes place for some di- stance from the slough, and is the reason why the separation of a mortified limb is seldom fol- lowed bv hemorrhage. ine same occurrence also affords an explana- tion, why, in the amputation of a mortified limb, 1 ore is sometimes no hemorrhage from the ves- ?e s, although the incisions are made in the liv- |ng part. I his fact was first particularly pointed out by Petit, the surgeon. (See Mem. dc VAcutL des Sciences, 1732.) “ When a gangrened limb (says this celebrated surgeon) is cut off in the dead part, no hemorrhage occurs, because the blood is coagulated a great way in the vessels.” He adds, “ We have several examples of limbs amputated, on account of gangrene, in which no hemorrhage occurred, although the amputation was made a considerable way in the living parts ; because the clot was not confined in these cases to the dead part, but was continued forwards into the living, as far as the inflammatory disposition extended.” According to Dr. Thomson, cases, in confirm- ation of the foregoing statement, are recorded by other practical writers, especially Quesnay, and Mr. O’Halloran. In one of the cases, mentioned by the latter gentleman, and in which no hemorrhage followed the removal of the limb, the incisions were made four inches above the division of the dead from the living parts. Dr. Thomson has seen a still longer portion of fe- moral artery closed up with coagulated blood, after a mortification of the foot and leg; and, in one example, where the mortification began in the thigh, lie saw the coagulation of the blood in the external iliac, extending up to the origin of this vessel from the ‘aorta. “ So common, indeed, is this coagulation of the blood in the limbs affected with mortification (observes Dr. Thomson), that it has been supposed to be a necessary and constant effect of this disease. This opinion, however, does not appear to be well founded; for I have now seen several instances in which a limb has mortified and dropt off, with- out hemorrhage having occurred from the ves- sels divided by nature ; and yet, in examining the vessels of the stumps of these patients after death, I have not been able to find any clots, either of coagulated blood, or of coagulable lymph. In the cases to which I allude, the ad- hesive inflammation, occurring in the line of se- paration between the dead and living parts, bad extended to the blood-vessels, and their inner surfaces being inflamed and pressed together by the swelling which occurs, had adhered so as to close up their extremities. It is in this way we shall find, that the common ligature acts, which is applied to the divided extremities of arteries and veins; and it is this obliteration, by the process of adhesion of the extremities of the arteries and veins in the neighbourhood of the sphacelated parts, that in reality prevents the occurrence of hemorrhage, when the mortified limbs fall off, or are removed by the knife. The coagulation of the blood in the canal of the vessel is not alone sufficient. It may tend, in the cases in which it occurs, for a time to restrain hemorrhage; but it is by the obliteration by adhesion, of the canal in the extremities of the arteries and -veins, that the occurrence of he- morrhage can be securely and permanently pro- vided against. Indeed, to me it seems doubtful, whether that coagulation of blood, which takes place in mortified limbs, ever takes place in the canal of the vessel, fill its extremity and lateral communications have been plugged up by the coagulating lvmph, which is extended during the state of the adhesive inflammation.” (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 554.) When gangrene and sphacelus happen to any extent, the patient is usually troubled with an 3 G