171 ANEURISM. ANEURISMAL VAIUX, VARICOSE, OR VENOUS ANEURISM. By tliese terms, surgeons mean a tumor, arising from a preternatural and direct com- munication, formed between a large vein and a subjacent artery. Thus, in venesection, per- formed immediately over the artery at the bend of the elbow, if the lancet be carried too deeply, it may transfix the vein, and wound the artery, in which event, the arterial blood, in consequence of the proximity of the two vessels, instead of being effused into the cellular substance, will pass directly into the cavity of the vein, which will become dilated in the form of avarix by the jet of arterial blood into it. Although Sennertus probably referred to an in- stance of this disease, (0/j.T. 5, l. 5, cap. 43,) Dr. W. Hunter is undoubtedly the first who gave an accurate description of it. Scarpa is'disposed to claim a share of the merit for his countryman Guattani; but, as Mr. Hodgson has remarked, Dr. Hunter’s observations on this disease were published in the years 1757, and 1764, whereas, Guattani did not see his first patient until the >ear 176‘9, and his book was not published until the year 1772. “ Does it ever happen in surgery,” says Dr. Hunter, “ that when an artery is opened through a vein, a communication, or anastomosis, is after- wards kept up between these two vessels? It is easy to conceive this case, and it is not long since I was consulted about one, that had all the symptoms that might be expected, supposing such a thing to have actually happened, and such symptoms, as otherwise must be allowed to be very unaccountable. It arose from bleeding; and was of some years standing, when I saw it about two years ago, and I understand very lit- tle alteration has happened to it since that time. The veins, at the bending of the arm, and espe- cially the basilic, which was the vein that had been opened, were there prodigiously enlarged, and came gradually to their natural size, at about two inches above, and as much below the elbow. When emptied bv pressure, they filled again almost instantaneously, and this happened, even when a ligature was applied tight round the fore- arm, immediately below the affected part. Both when the ligature was made tight, and when it was removed, they shrunk, and remained of a small size, while the finger was kept tight upon the artery, at the part where the vein had been opened in bleeding. There was a general swell- ing in the place, arid in the direction of the artery, which seemed larger, and beat stronger, than what is natural, and there was a tremulous jarring motion iri the vein, which was strongest at the part, which had been punctured, and be- came insensible at some distance both upwards and downwards.” (Med. Ohs. and lvq. V. 1.) In the second volume of this work, Dr. Hun- ter adds some further remarks on the aneuris- mal varix. “ In the operation of bleeding, the lancet is plunged into the artery through both sides of the vein, and there will be three wounds made in these vessels, viz. two in the vein, and one in the an, ry< and these will be nearly opposite to one another, and to the wound in the skin. This is what all'surgeons know has often happened in bleeding, and the injury done the artery is com- monly known by the jerking impetuosity of the stream, whilst it flows from the vein, and by the difficulty of stopping it, when a sufficient quan- tity is drawn. “ In the next place, we must suppose, that the wound of the skin, and of the adjacent, or up- per side of the vein, heal up as usual; but, that the wound of the artery, and of the adjacent, or under side of the vein, remain open, (as the wound of the artery does in the spurious aneu- rism,) and, by that means, the blood is thrown from the trunk of the artery, directly into the trunk of the vein. Extraordinary as this sup- position may appear, in reality it differs from the common spurious aneurism in one circum- stance only, viz., the wound remaining open in the side of the vein, as well as in the side of the artery. But this one circumstance will occasion a great deal of difference in the symptoms, in the tendency of the complaint, and in the proper method of treating it: upon which account, the knowledge of such a case will be of importance in surgery. “ It will differ in its symptoms from the com- mon spurious aneurism, principally thus:— “ The vein will be dilated, or become varicose, and it will have a pulsating jarring motion on account of the stream from the artery. It will make a hissing noise, which will be found to cor- respond with the pulse for the same reason. The blood of the tumour will be altogether, or almost entirely fluid, because kept in constant motion. The artery, I apprehend, will become larger in the arm, and smaller at the wrist, than it was in the natural state; which will be found out by comparing the size, and the pulse, of the artery in both arms, at these different places. The reason of which I shall speak of hereafter; and the effects of ligatures, and of pressure upon the vessels above the elbow and below it, will be what every person may readily conceive, who under- stands any tiling of the nature of arteries and veins in the living body. “ The natural tendency of such a complaint will be very different from that of the spurious aneurism. The one is growing worse every hour, because of the resistance to the arterial blood, and if not remedied by surgery must at last burst. The other, in a short time, comes to a nearly permanent state ; and, if not disturbed, produces no mischief, because there is no con- siderable resistance to the blood, that is forced out of the artery. “ The proper treatment must, therefore, be very different in these two cases, the spurious aneurism requiring chirurgicnl assistance, as much, perhaps, as any disease whatever; whereas, in the other case, I presume it will be best to do nothing. “ If such enses do happen, they will no doubt be found to differ among themselves, in many little circumstances, and particularly in the shape, ike. of the tumefied parts. Thus the dilatation of the veins may be in one only, or in several, and may extend lower, or higher, in one case, than in another, &e. according to the manner ot branching, and to the state of the valves in dif- ferent arms. And the dilatation ol the veins may also vary, on account of the size ot the artery,