201 ANUS. somewhat altered. Dr. Reisinger lias published three cases, in which it was successfully employed bv Dupuytren. In the first of these examples, when the instrument had been applied, it em- braced the septum so well, that it could not be displaced from it The colic attacks, vomiting, thirst, furred tongue, and loss of appetite, which ensued, soon gave way after the belly had been fomented; the constriction was then increased, and found to produce less and less indisposition. On the 29 th, very little of the feces came out of the artificial anus, and, after a short time, five natural evacuations took place. The blades of the instrument were now completely closed, and, on taking it out, a slough of membrane was found between the blades; a proof, that the sep- tum was destroyed. On the 30th, the patient’s health was undisturbed. Clysters were now ad- ministered, with the view of promoting evacua- tions in the natural manner; and, the next day, the patient had a proper motion, without any assistance, and a very small quantity of the feces passed out of the fistulous opening. This aper- ture was now merely covered with charpie; but, as some high granulations were rising, the pow- der of colophonium was sprinkled upon them, and compresses and a bandage were applied. Tiie use of clysters was also daily continued, though the patient voided his feces in the natural way. On discontinuing the external pressure, the quantity of discharge from the fistulous open- ing increased; and, therefore, on the 1st of October, the compresses were again applied, and kept on the part wiih a spring truss. The treat- ment ended in a perfect cure. In another case, Dupuytren enlarged the lower angle of the outer opening with a bistoury, and, after feeling with his finger, that both orifices of the bowel were close to that opening, he applied the forceps. In the evening, the constriction was increased, which was followed by severe colic pains over the whole abdomen. They sub- sided, however, the following day. From the outer opening, a great deal of slimy excrement was discharged. The constriction was not aug- mented. On the &th day, the patient was attacked in the night, with pain and vomiting. The following night was also very restles-s. Though the belly was not tense, it could not bear to be touched. On the lltli and 12th days, the patient was nearly free from pain; and, by means of clysters, two natural motions were pro- cured; and, on the 13th, as the patient was easy, Dupuytren began to make pressure on the fistu- lous opening. On the 26th, the edges of the aperture were touched with lunar caustic; and on the 28th, a compress, supported by a spring truss, was applied. The patient was kept con- stantly in the horizontal posture; the feces began to be voided the natural way regularly, and the opening contracted in thb most favourable manner. I think the generality of surgeons will agree with Dr. Reisinger, that the foregoing treatment cannot be indiscriminately adopted, in all descriptions of patients, without danger. It should never be tried too soon after the forma- tion of an artificial anus; but, time should be owed for the irritability, and sensibility of the Rut, and especially of the septum, to be lessened •y the effect of the air and the pressure of the eces. Nor, should the trial ever be made ere it has been fully ascertained, that nature cannot herself bring about the cure. Many other inter- esting observations on this new proposal may be perused in Dr. Reisinger’s tract, the title of which is given in the list of works at the end of the present article. In order not to incur the risk of extravasation of the feces in the abdomen, the constriction of the septum should never be in- creased with imprudent haste, before the adhesive inflammation has had time to be produced between the layers, of which that part is composed. I shall conclude with the relation of an inter- esting case of artificial anus, complicated with prolapsus, as recorded by my friend Mr. Law- rence. “ If the complaint (a mortified hernia) termi- nates in the formation of an artificial anus, we must endeavour to alleviate those distressing in- conveniences, which arise from the involuntary discharge of wind and feces through the new opening, by supplying the patient with an appa- ratus, in which these may be received as they pass off. An instrument of this kind, the con- struction of which appears, very perfect, is de- scribed by Richter (Aw/'aagsgj. tier Wundarzn. vo!. 5.), from the Trade dcs Bandages of Juville. The patient will be best enabled to adapt any contrivance of this sort to the particular circum- stances of his own case. It has been found, in some instances, that a common elastic truss, with a compress of lint under the pad, has been more serviceable than any complicated instrument (Pa- risian Journal, vol. 1. p. 193.) in preventing the continual flow of feculent matter from the arti- ficial opening.” (Treatise on Hernia, p. 206.) “ I know,” says Mr. Lawrence, “ a patient with an artificial anus, in whom the gut often protrudes to the length of eight or ten inches, at the same time bleeding from its surface. This is attended with pain, and compels him to lie down ; in which position the intestine recedes. The patient has now discharged all his feces at the groin for fifteen years ; and has enjoyed to- lerable health and strength during that time. His evacuations are generally fluid; but sometimes of the natural consistence. Whenever he retains his urine, after feeling an inclination to void it, a quantity of clear, inoffensive mucus, like the white of an egg, amounting to about four ounces, is expelled from the anus; and this may occur two or three times in the day.” (P. 208.) When the protruded intestine is strangulated, an operation may become necessary for the re- moval of the stricture. (Schmucker, Vcrmisclde Chirurgischc Schriftxn, 1. 2.) Two cases, which terminated fatally from this cause, are mentioned by Sabatier, in a memoir in the 5 tom. de l’Acad. de Chir. Mr. Lawrence also refers to Le Blanc Precis d’Operations de Chir. tom. 2. p. 445. We should aWays endeavour to prevent such protru- sions, when a disposition to their formation seems to exist, by the use of a steel truss, which should, indeed, be worn by the patient, independently of this circumstance. If the tumor has become irreducible by the hand, an attempt may be made to replace it by keeping up a constant pressure on the part, the patient being at the same time confined to bed. By these means, as we have already noticed, Desault ( Vai'isian Journal, vol. I. p, 178.) returned a very large prolapsus, and, by pressure on the opening, the feces were made to