84 AMAUROSIS. is neither pretcrnaturally dilated, nor contracted; but, when once the patient is (juite bereft of vi- sion, the motions of the iris are slow, and the pupil larger than in a healthy eye in an equal degree of light. At the bottom of the eye, very far behind the pupil, a concave pale grey, bright yellowish, or variegated reddish opacity is deve- loped. By this the eyesight is not merely weak- ened, but rendered quite confused, since all ob- jects, but especially smallish ones, appear to be confounded together, particularly when the pa- tient tries to inspect closely any determinate body. The further the disease advances, the brighter and more visible is the bottom of the eye, the paler is the colour of the iris (a thing very con- spicuous in dark-eyed persons), and when once the amaurosis is complete, so that no suscepti- bility of the impression of light is left, then, upon an attentive examination of the eye, one can mostly perceive, at the troubled deeper part of the eye, a very slender vascular plexus, which merely consists of the ordinary ramifications of the central artery and vein, which are now visible at the pale-coloured bottom of the eye. In a half-darkened place, such an eye presents a shin- ing yellowish, or reddish appearance, but only in certain positions of the eye-ball; and, in this re- spect, it is somewhat similar to the eye of a cat, whence Beer chooses to term the complaint cat- eye amaurosis. The disorder is also not accom- panied with any other essential morbid appear- ances, except the decline of vision, or complete blindness. (Lehre von den Augenkr. b. 2. p. 496.) Beer, in fig. 1. tab. 4. of his second vol. has given, from nature, an admirable representation of this very remarkable species of amaurosis. The differences in the appearances at the bottom of the eye, in this case, from those presented in the early stage of fungus hsematodes of that organ, will be best understood by referring to the article Fungus Hxmuiodes. Beer observes, that the causes of this species of amaurosis are so'obscure, that whatever is offered upon the subject can be received only as conjecture. After what has been said in the fore- going paragraph is considered, about the particu- lar individuals who are liable to be affected, and the change of the iris to a pale colour, as a con- stant symptom of this case, a suspicion may be entertained, that a deficiency of the pigmentum nigrum, and of the tapetum of the uvea, in con- sequence of the stoppage of this secretion, may be the cause of the disease. Beer justly remarks, that much might be learned on this point from the dissection of eyes thus affected ; but lie has never met with the opportunity. Nothing being known about the etiology, the prognosis cannot but be veiy unfavourable; for, as the surgeon is ignorant of causes, he cannot know what means ought to be adopted for their removal. It is fortunate, however, that this amauros‘13 rarely attains its highest degree, but almost constantly remains in the form of a more or less considerable amblyopia. Just as little is yet known respecting any well regulated mode of treatment: all that Beer has learnt from his own opportunities of remark is, that, in individuals prone to consumption, or somewhat hectical, but not dangerously so, and especially in emaciated children, whose bellies are not at the same time tense and hard, this amau- rotic impairment of sight may sometimes be kept from getting worse, by the careful employment of such general remedies, regimen, and diet, as are calculated to improve the health. But, in the most fortunately managed cases, Beer has never seen a step made towards the removal of the dis- ease. (Le/ire von den Augenk. b. 2. p. 497, 9%.) Beer's Third Species of Amaurosis, and its Varieties. 1. Of the amaurosis which is produced hi/ the abuse of hitlers, bp coal-smoke, or the ejject of lead. This amaurosis in its progress presents differ- ent stages, to which the utmost attention must be paid, in order to avoid treating the case wrongly, or producing complete blindness. The limits between these stages, however, are so faintly marked, that one cannot wonder at their being overlooked by a superficial observer. In the first stage, the complaint never induces entire blindness, but only a more or less considerable diminution of vision. A manifest turgescence of the blood-vessels, not only in the conjunctiva, but in the sclerotica itself; a disagreeable sensation of fulness in the eye; a perfectly motionless state of the iris; a very considerable dilatation of the pupil; and a peculiar undescribable pale-blackness of that open- ing, without any appearance that can be called turbidness; a singular pellicle-like cloud, which renders larger objects indistinct, and quite conceals all smaller ones; and, finally, a more or less re- markable trembling of the limbs; are the charac- teristic symptoms of the first stage. On the other hand, says Beer, in the second stage, the patient is quite deprived of vision; the pupil is exceedingly large; the iris quite motion- less, even when the eye-lid is rubbed over the eye; the pupillary edge of the iris is angular, usually only towards the two canthi, so that the breadth of the iris is greatest in the perpendicular direction; nearly every part of the white of the eye exhibits a faint redness; the edges of the eye-lids, especially in fair persons with a very delicate irritable skin, are somewhat discoloured; the upper eye-lid, in consequence of relaxation, hangs farther down over the eye, than natural; the movements of the eye and eve-lids are lan- guid; and different muscles are affected with spasm, especially those of the limbs and spine. If, in this stage of the disorder, the power of distinguishing light be completely abolished, then the other external senses, and, at last, the inter- nal ones, but particularly the hearing, speech, and memory, fail. Nay, not unfrequently this form of amaurosis is attended with delirium, and, when produced by the poison of lead, it may be accompanied with lead-colic, ileus, and contrac- tions of the hands and feet. The abuse of bitters of every kind, whether as articles of food, or medicine, especially chicory- coffee, bitter almonds, various high-seasoned dishes, quassia, &c.; likewise of narcotics, espe- cially opium, hyoscyamus, belladonna, thorn-ap- ple, and cynoglossum; lastly, the long con- tinued and imprudent employment of preparations of lead, paint, &c.; the application of lead cos- metics, and accidental preparations of this mine- ral, adulterated wine, &c. are the causes of this form of amaurosis, which Beer has often seen, and mostly treated with success.