750 LACHRYMAL ORGANS. able. At tbe beginning of the second stage, there is also a morbid secretion lrom the mucous membrane of the nostril and caruncula larhry- malis. Now not only the swelling of the lachry- mal sac increases more and more, the redness acquires a deeper colour, the skin becomes more shining, the fluctuation still more evident; and, at length, in the centre of the tumor formed by the lachrymal sac, a yellowish, soft point pre- sents itsell. In this state of things, in order to prevent a true fistula, the surgeon should make an opening in the lachrymal sac, without the least ■delay; for, if the abscess be left to itself, the pus wiil at last make a passage for itself through the orbicular muscle and integuments; but it will only be a small fistulous opening, surrounded with callous hardness, and merely capable of letting some of the pus and mucus of the sac escape, so that the thicker part of the matter re- mains behind, and, consequently, though the swelling diminishes after the formation of a spon- taneous opening, it does not entirely subside. A quantity of blood is also remarked to be blended with the discharge from the sac. This last is the case, which Beer denominates a true Jistula of lachrymal sac. When the abscess bursts of itself, the fistulous opening in the sac is not always exactly opposite the aperture in the skin, and, though there is commonly but one communica- tion with the sac, it sometimes happens, that se- veral small external openings are produced more or less distant from the sac. The diagnosis is easy enough ; for, on pressing upon the upper portion of that receptacle, mucus and pus, blended to- gether, are immediately discharged from all the fistulous apertures. After the disease has lasted a good while, it not unfrequently happens, that tears are also voided from the fistulous opening; a circumstance, indicating the restored action of the lachrymal puncta and canals; but, according to Beer, such tears are never duly blended with the mucous and purulent matter. He further re- marks, that, when the second period of the se- cond stage, or the suppurative process is over, a morbid secretion of mucus still continues in the third period of the second stage, that secretion becoming whitish, thick, opaque, and only partly resembling pus. As, in consequence of its thick- ness, and the swelling of the mucus membrane of the nasal duct, the secretion cannot descend into the nose, it collects in the sac, and some- times pushes off any piece of lint, or plaster, with which the external opening in the sac has been closed. At length, bv means of judicious treat- ment, this third period of the second stage is also brought to a termination ; the mucus is secreted again in due quantity; it becomes transparent like white-of-egg, and viscid ; but white streaks mav be for some time perceived in it. After- wards the mucus becomes thinner, and, if the functions of the lachrymal puncta and ducts are not destroyed, it is thoroughly mixed with the tears. The opening in the lachrymal sac now either heals up of itself, or under skilful treat- ment; but, in general, a minute fistulous aper- ture still remains, from which the tears and mucus are occasionally voided, if the passage through the nasal duct be not free. However, if the small fistulous aperture should happen to heal up completely, the mucus and tears ac- cumulate in the sac, and the patient is obliged to press them out through the puncta lachrymalia, several times a day. When the surgeon is consulted early enough, and proper treatment is adopted, Beer sets down the prognosis in the first stage of the inflammation as very favourable. But, if the practitioner be called in later, it will not be in his power completely to disperse the inflammation, and prevent the mor- bid secretion, and accumulation of mucus in the lachrymal sac; the blennorrhcca of this part, of Professor Beer, or the dacryops blennoidcutof Schmidt; a state, however, which soon gives way to judicious treatment. But, when the case is neglected, or wrongly managed at the period, when the lachrymal sac is violently inflamed, a complete, or partial, closure of the nasal duct In- adhesive inflammation is apt to be the conse- quence. And, the same effect may also be pro- duced in the lachrymal canals, in which event, tiie absorption of the tears is for ever impeded, and the patient must remain the rest of his life afflicted with a stillicidium lachrymarum. With regard to the prognosis in the second stage of inflammation of the lachrymal sac, Beer considers it as very dubious, on account of the impairment of the functions of the excreting parts of the lachrymal organs; for, says he, no surgeon can exactly know, what may have been the result of the first stage, in relation to the perviousness of the nasal duct and lachrymal canals, and an officious examination of the parts with a probe, for the purpose of obtaining informa- tion, w-ould be attended with considerable mis- chief. However, generally speaking, the prog- nosis is most hopeful at the first period of the second stage, just when the morbid secretion of mucus is beginning; the suppuration may yet be moderated by right treatment, and the ex- creting parts of the lachrymal organs preserved. But, if the suppurative stage has already come on, much will depend upon the consideration, whether the matter has been originally formed in the lachrymal sac, has lodged there a good while, and the sac is ready to burst, or whether there is actually an opening in the sac opposite that in the skin, or, lastly, whether the openings do not correspond. In the first case, the suppuration yet admits of being regulated by judicious treat- ment, and the lachrymal sac can be punctured; but, in the other circumstances, the management of the case is far more difficult, especially when the patient’s constitution is not good. However, the surgeon should be careful not to disfigure the patient with a large scar; and the aim should be to prevent atony of the lachrymal puncta and ducts, and a consequent stillicidium lachryma- rum. These are the least serious evils to be ap- prehended from mismanagement; for, if the case be ill-treated, or neglected, in the later stage of the suppurative process, necessarily attending a fistulous state of the sac, the lachrymal organs may be rendered quite useless, or even entirely destroyed, and the nasal duct obliterated, or ob- structed by the effects of caries. In some few instances, indeed, the whole lachrymal sac is destroyed, or will require to be so by art, as will be presently explained. It is always a favourable circumstance, when the tears arc seen to issue from the fistulous opening with the mucus and pus, as it is a proof, that the absorption and conveyance of the tears into the lachrymal sae