LACHRYMAL ORGANS. prove of such an operation ? Yet, the laying open of the lachrymal sac, and thrusting a probe down into the nose, when the nasal duct is either perfectly patent, or, at the most, slightly tumid from inflammation, is neither less preposterous, nor less cruel. (See Quarterly Journ. of Fo- reign Medicine, Vo!. 1, p. 293.) Indeed, it is somewhat surprising, that errors of this kind should have prevailed so long, particularly as experience had taught Mr. Pott, that slight cases might bebenefited by the simple employment of a vitriolic collyrium; a fact which ought to have convinced him, that the disease did not always depend upon obstruction of the nasal duct. It is curious, therefore, that he did not fully see this mistake ; for, that he knew of these diseases having great variety is evident, from the following remark :—As the state and circum- stances of this disease are really various, and differ very essentially from each other, the gene- ral custom of calling them all by the one name of fistula lachrymalis, is absurd.” I believe, that one great cause of deception has been the fact, that, though laying open the lachrymal sac, and the introduction of instruments down the nasal duct, have been frequently practised, when milder plans would have answered every purpose, yet a cure has often followed the prac- tice, and thus confirmed the supposition of relief having been effected by the removal of theima ginary obstruction in the nasal duct. Thus, the late Mr. Ramsden, of St. Bartholomew’s, with whom I served my apprenticeship, always fol- lowed the common plan of passing a probe down the nasal duct, and letting the patient keep a piece of bougie, or a style, in the part for two or three months afterwards; and I scarcely recol- lect an instance in which he failed to accomplish a cure, though I have no doubt, that the same benefit might sometimes have been obtained without any operation at all. And a discerning practitioner should never forget that, if no per- manent obstruction exist in the nasal duct, a cure will generally follow, on the subsidence of inflammation, and a change taking place in the action of the parts, whether a probe, style, can- nula, bougie, or seton, be employed, or not. Erysipelas of the Parts covering the La- chrymal Sac.—Beer considers it highly neces- sary that this case should be discriminated from inflammation of the sac itself, which is often but little affected, and this even when an abscess forms. Unless the true nature of the disease be comprehended, the surgeon is apt to suppose, that the matter is in the sac itself, and believes that, when he makes an opening, he is punctur- ing that receptacle, whereas he is, in reality, merely dealing with a superficial abscess of the integuments. Nor, as Beer has observed, is the "mistake free from ill consequences; for, imagining that the wound is made into the sac, the surgeon pokes about with his probe so long, that a good deal of unnecessary pain and inflam- mation is produced. According to the same author, the case is not very frequent, and is mostly met with in scrophulous subjects, who have had for a considerable time a blennorrhcca of the lachrymal sac. The inflammation par- takes of the usual characters of erysipelas, and commonly extends to the eyelids, particularly the upper one. The absorption and conveyance of the tears into the lachrymal sac are inter- rupted, because the inflammation constantly affects the lachrymal ducts and papillae, the latter appearing considerably shrunk. When the in- flammation spreads over the side of the face, Beer says, there is usually a discharge of thin mucus from the nose; and when the affection extends more deeply, to the anterior portion of the lachrymal sac, as may easily happen when the case is neglected, or treated in its first stage with stimulating applications, a bean-shaped, circumscribed, hard, painful tumor may be felt or is even denoted by its very red appearance. The puncta lachrymalia are now completely closed, the papillae shrivelled up, and the nostril on the aflected side very dry and tender. If in thefirst stage of thedisorder, the lachrymal papillae and canals have not been too violently aflected, the former parts expand again, and the absorption of the tears recommences, with the second stage. But, at this period, according to the observations of Professor Beer, a good deal of mucus is secreted from the caruncula lachry- malis and Meibomian glands, and collects and glues the eyelids together, especially during sleep. At the same time, mucus generally accumulates in the lachrymal sac itself, and may be voided both through the puncta lachrymalia and nasal duct, by gentle pressure. The mu- cous discharge from the nostril also acquires a thicker consistence. Should the lachrymal pa- pilla; and ducts have suffered more severely in the first stage of the disease, the due absorption of the tears does not begin after the subsidence of the inflammation, and a dropping of them over the cheek, a stillicidium lachrymarum, frequently continues a long while after the ter- mination of the other symptoms. It depends upon the atony of the lachrymal puncta and ducts, and is very troublesome in cold wet weather. And, when the lachrymal sac itself has been a good deal inflamed in the first stage of the com- plaint, a large quantity of mucus collects within it in the second stage, and may be discharged by pressure. Sometimes the subcutaneous ab- scess actually communicates with the cavity of the sac; a case, which Beer terms a spurious fistula of the lachrymal sac, the matter not being formed in that receptacle itself, but getting into it from the external abscess. As the skin is generally rendered very thin, these abscesses near the bridge of the nose usually burst by se- veral openings. Beer remarks, that it is easy to learn, whether the ulceration extends through the lacrvmal sac; for when this has happened, the slightest pressure upon the superior part of the sac produces a discharge of pus and mucus from the external opening, and, if the lachrymal canals have already recommenced their func- tions, the discharge will also be mixed with tears. (See M'Kcnzic on Diseases of the Lachrymal Organs, p. 22.) The quantity of matter, which flows out, is likewise so copious, that it is evi- dent it could not have been all lodged between the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, but must have come partly' out of the lachrymal sac. The use of a fine probe will remove any doubt which may be left. (Beer, Lchrc t on den Augcnkr. B. 1, p. 332—35.) On the subject of the causes of this complaint, the preceding author delivers no remark worthy i li i: [I p S' ; s •