BLI 227 BLE median nerve, renders any injury of it very unlikely. If, however, a doubt should be en- tertained on this subject, an attention to symp- toms will soon dispel it. When a nerve is irri- tated at any part, between its origin and termi- nation, a sensation is felt, as if some injury were done to the parts, which it supplies. If, there- fore, the' cutaneous nerves were injured, the in- teguments of the fore-arm would seem to suffer pain ; if the median nerve, the thumb, and two next fingers would be painfully affected.— ('Aberntilnl.J What are the ills likely to arise from a wounded nerve? If it were partially cut, would it not, like a tendon, or any other substance, unite? It seems probable that it would do so, as nerves, as large as the cutaneous ones of the arm, are very numerous in various situations of the body, and are partially wounded in operations, without am' peculiar consequences usually ensuing. The extraordinary pain sometimes experienced in bleeding, may denote that a cutaneous nerve is injured. The situation of the fiervous branches is such, that they must often be partially wounded in the operation, though they probably unite again, in almost all cases, without any ill conse- quences. Yet, says Mr. Abernethy, it is pos- sible that an inflammation of the nerve may accidentally ensue, which would be aggravated, if the nerve were kept tense, in consequence of its partial division. Mr. Abernethy thinks the disorder arises from inflammation of the nerve in common with the other wounded parts. This gentleman supposes, that an inflamed nerve would be very likely to communicate dreadful irritation to the sensorium, and that a cure would be likely to arise from intercepting its commu- nication with that organ. The general opinion is, that the nerve is only partially divided, and that a complete division would bring relief. Mr. Pott proposed enlarg- ng the original orifice. It is possible, hewever, fiat the injured nerve may be tinder the vein, uid, if the nerve be inflamed, even a total divi- ■ion of it, at lue affected part, would, perhaps, ail in relieving the general nervous irritation, I’hich the disease has occasioned. To intercept he communication of the inflamed nerve with he sensorium, however, promises perfect re- ef. This object can only be accomplished by taking a transverse incision above the orifice of ie vein. Tin; incision need not be large, for ie injured nerve must lie within the limits of ie original orifice, and it need only descend as ’w as the fascia of the fore-arm, above which 1 the filaments of the cutaneous nerves are tuated. As the extent of the inflammation of ie nerve is uncertain, Mr. Abernethy suggests "cn making a division of the cutaneous nerve dl further from the wound made in bleeding. Examples are recorded, in which not "only traordinary pain was occasioned by the prick tbe lancet; but, erysipelas of the skin ending gangrene of the whole limb, and the death the patient. (See Rith&rund’t Nnsog. Chir. ’A p. 899, Efllf. 2.) A case, in which the cater part of the integuments of the arm, had <n destroyed by erysipelas, thus produced, I saw under the care of Mr. Vincent, iti Bartholomew’s hospital. ” f"rirt(,r times, it was customary to refer many of the bad symptoms occasionally follow- ing venesection, to a puncture of the tendon of the biceps; but, this doctrine is now in a great measure renounced, the experiments of Haller having completely proved, that tendons and aponeuroses are, comparatively speaking, parts endued with little or no sensibility. In the foregoing account, the various ill con- sequences occasionally arising after venesection are represented separately: no doubt, in some cases, they may occur together. See R. Butler’s Essay concerning Blood-letting, &;c. Svik Lmid. 1731. M. Martin, Truitt de la PhlLbatomu et de V Arieriotomie,8vo. Paris, 17-11. Quesnay, Trait d des Ejj'ets it de l’Usage de la Saignee, 1‘Jmo. Paris. G. Vieusscm, De la Saignde, et de son Usage dans la plupnrt des Maladies, 8vn. Paris, 1815. J. J. Walbaum, De Verupsectione, Galt. 1749. (Haller Disp. Chir. 5, 477.) B. Bell's System of Surgery. Essay on the ill Consequences, sometimes following Venesection, by J. Abernethy. Medical Commu- nications, Vol. 2. Richer and's Nosographie Chi- rurgicule, Tom. 2, p. 416, Edit. 4. M. Freteau, Traite Elementuire Sur l’Emploi legitime et method!. que des Emissions Sanguines, fc. 8vo. Paris, 1816. Mcrplesnn's Treatise on the Art of Cupping, 12mo. Loud. 1813; and Dr. J. II. Johnson's valuable Treatise on the Medicinal Leech, including its Medical and Natural History, with a description of its Anatomical Structure, and Remarks upon the Diseases, Preservation, and. Management of Leeches, 8 t o. Land. 1816. BLEEDING. (See Lletmrrhage and Arteries.) BLE'NORRHAGIA, or Bldnoirkeei. (from /3Asv/o;, mucus, and :euj, to flow.) A discharge of mucus. Swediaur, who maintains, that go- norrhoea is attended with a mucous, and not a purulent discharge, prefers the name of blenor- rhagia for the disease. However, in treating of gonorrhoea, we shall find that this last appellation is itself not altogether free from objections. BLEFHAROPTOSIS. (from [Depacr., the eyelid, and tttio.-i , a falling down.) Called also ptosis. An inability to raise the upper eyelid. (See Ptosis.) BLEPH ARO'TIS. An inflammation of the eyelids. BLINDNESS. This is an effect of many diseases of the eye See, particularly, Amaurosis; Cataract; Cornea, Opucilits oj; Gutta Strenu; Hydrophthahnia ; Leuconm ; Ophtliatmy ; Ptcn - gium ; Pupil, closure of; Staphyloma, $c. BLISTERS. Topical applications, which, when put on the skin, raise the cuticle in the form of a vesicle, filled with a serous fluid. Va- rious substances produce this effect on the Skin ; but, the powder of eantharides is wlmt operates with most certainty and expedition, and is now invariably made use of for the purpose. The blister plaster is thus composed: Canthnridum lbj, Emjdi.slri cnee Ibiss. Ad’pis suiliee ynap. lbj. The wax plaster and lard being melted, and al- lowed to become nearly cold, the powdered can tharides are afterwards- to be added. When it is not wished to maintain a discharge from the blistered part, it is sufficient to make a puncture in the cuticle to let out the fluid; but. when the case requires keeping up a secretion ol pus, the surgeon must remove the' whole ot the detached cuticle with n pair of scissors, and dross Q. a