FRACTURES. 480 »mule lor the discharge of the effused urine. In these eases, a catheter should be kept introduced, in order to prevent the urine from collecting in the bladder, and afterwards insinuating itself into the cavity of the abdomen. (Chnjunt.) The possibility of mistaking a fracture of the acetabu- lum for a dislocation of the thigh-bone, and the differences of these cases, as explained by Mr. A. Cooper, have been mentioned in the article B*islocariun,p. 381. FRACTURES OF THE TIIIOH. The os femoris is liable to be broken at every point, from its condyles to its very head; but it is at the middle third of this extent, that frac- tures mostly occur. The fracture is sometimes transverse, but more frequently oblique. The latter direction of the injury makes a serious dif- ference in the difficulty of curing the case, with- out future deformity, or lameness. Sometimes the fracture is comminuted, the bone being broken in more places than one; and sometimes the case is attended with a wound, communi- cating with the fracture, and making it, what is termed compound. As Petit remarks, however, the thigh-bone is less seldom broken into several pieces, than other bones more superficially si- tuated. A fractured thigh is attended with the follow- ing symptoms; a local acute pain at the instant of the accident; a sudden inability to move the limb; a preternatural mobility of one portion of the bone; sometimes a very distinct crepitus, when the two ends of the fracture are pressed against each other; deformity, in regard to the length, thickness, and direction, of the limb. The latter change, viz. the deformity, ought to be accurately understood; for, having a continual tendency to recur, especially, in oblique frac- tures, our chief trouble in the treatment is to pre- vent it. (Desault, par Bichat, T. 1, p. 181.)^ Almost all fractures of the thigh are attended with deformity. When this is considered, in re- lation to length, it appears, that, in oblique frac- tures, the broken limb is always shorter than the opposite one ; a circumstance denoting, that the ends of the fracture ride over each other. We may also easily convince ourselves, by examina- tion, that the deformity is owing to the lower end of the fracture having ascended above the upper one, which remains stationary. What power, except the muscles, can communicate to the lower portion of the fractured bone, a mo- tion from below upwards? At one end, attached to the pelvis, and, at the other, to this part of the bone, the patella, the tibia, and fibula, they make the former insertion their fixed point, and drawing upward the leg, the knee, and the lower portion of the thigh, they cause directly, or in- directly, the displacement in question. In pro- ducing this effect, the triceps, semitendinosus, semi-membranosus, rectus, gracilis, sartorius, Sic. are the chief agents. For the purpose of exemplifying the power of the muscles to displace the ends of the fracture, mention is made, in Desault s works by Bichat, of a carpenter, who fell from a scaffold, and broke hrs thigh. The limb, the next day, was as long as the other ; but the man had a complete palsy of his lower extremities, and could not discharge his urine. The moxa was applied, the muscles soon regained their power, and then the shorten- ing of the limb began to make its appearance. Besides the action of muscles, there is another cause of displacement. However firm the bed may be, on which the patient is laid, the but- tocks, more prominent than the rest of the body, soon form a depression in the bedding, and thence follows an inclination in the plane on which the trunk lies, which, gliding from above downward, pushes before it the upper end of the fracture, and makes it ride over the lower one. The muscles, irritated by the points of bone, in- crease their contraction, and draw upward the lower part of the bone; and from this double motion of the two ends of the fracture in opposite directions, their riding over each other results. (Desault. pur Bichat, T. 1. p. 183—184.) Transverse fractures are less liable to be dis- placed in the longitudinal direction of the bone, because, when once in contact, the ends of the fracture form a mutual resistance to each other; the lower end, drawn upward by the muscles, meets with resistance from the upper one, which being itself inclined downward by the weight of the trunk, pushes the former before it, and thus both retain their position in relation to each other. The deformity of a fractured thigh, in the transverse direction, always accompanies that which is longitudinal; but, sometimes, it exist* alone. Tiffs is the case, when,, in a transverse fracture, the two ends of the bone lose their con- tact ; one being carried outward, the other in- ward ; or, one remaining in its place, while the other is separated. The upper end of the frac- ture is not now. as in the foregoing instance, motionless in regard to the muscular action; the contraction of the pectineus, psoas, iliacus internus, and upper part of the triceps, draws it from its natural direction, and contributes to displace it. The deformity of the limb, in regard to its direction, is either the consequence of the blow, which produced the fracture, or, what is more common, of the ill-directed exertions of persons who carry the patient. Thus we see, that an injudicious posture bends the two portions, so as to make an angle. Whatever may be the kind of deformity, the lower end of the fracture may retain the natural position in which it is placed, or else undergo a rotatory motion on its axis outward, which is very common, or inward, which is more unusual. This rotation always aggravates the displaced state of the fracture, and should be attended to in the reduction. (Desault, par Bichat, T. 1, p. 185.) Every one at all initiated in the surgical pro- fession knows, that there are two very different methods of treating fractured thighs. In one, which was recommended and practised by De- sault, and is still universally preferred in France, the limb is kept in a straight extended position. In the other, the limb is laid upon its side with the knee bent, a mode, which was extolled by the celebrated Mr. Pott, and since his time has found many partisans in this country. To these two positions for fractured tli.’ghs may now be added that, in which the patient lies upon his back, with his thigh and leg in the bent posit.cn, supported on two oblique planes, or surface*,