WOUNDS. 1223 T. 3, p. 353.) In other instances, the mischief the part, a fistula, communicating with the cavity is done to the intestines; and, still more fre- of that organ, may be formed, and allow the quentlv, the viscera, as well as the parietes of victuals to escape externally. (See Richmond, the abdomen, have only suffered a more or less Physiologic, T. 1. Chymification: Nosogra- forcible contusion. The effects of such violence phie Chinirg. T. 3, p. 353—350, Ed. 4.) are inflammation of the injured bowels, and their I shall conclude, with repeating, that in the adhesion to the inside of the peritoneum. Thus, generality of injuries of the abdomen from exter- the stomach and intestines, the liver, and the nal violence, whether wounds or contusions, the gall bladder, when inflamed from a blow upon principal danger depends upon inflammation of the front of the belly, contract adhesions to the the peritoneum. In the treatment, therefore, the corresponding portion of the parietes, Whic h has most necessary thing is to prevent and oppose this been also bruised, and is itself inflamed. When perilous affection. Copious and repeated vene- such inflammations suppurate (and, according to section, the application ofleeches, mild aperient Richerand, it is their most usual course), on glysters, a low fluid diet, perfect rest, fomenta- opening the abscess, the pus is found blended tions, and the warm bath, are amongst the most with the matter, which the viscera contain or effectual antiphlogistic remedies, which, in such secrete. Thus, the alimentary matter, and even cases, are entitled to praise and confidence, intestinal woi ms, have been discharged with the For information on wounds of the abdomen, pus on opening certain abscesses, which commu- see Flajani, Osservazioni, §c. T. 3. A. nicated with the cavity of the stomach or bowels ; Malavcil Qucestio, <^c. an tenuium intesti- ahd bile has been found blended with the matter norum vulnus lethale? Paris, 1734. Wcncker, of abscesses in the right hypochondrium. Virginis per viginti septem annos ventriculum When, in consequence of a blow upon the perforatum habentis, Historia ct Scctio, Ar- anterior part of the belly, the patient experiences gent. 1743. Haller, Disp. Chip. 5—-19. in the situation of the injury a deeply-seated Callisen's Systerna Chirurgice Hodierncc, T. 1, pain; when a tumor forms, and the symptoms p. 697, ^c. Edit. 1798, Hafnice. Richerand, indicate violence done to some of the adjacent Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 327, <$(C. Edit. 4. viscera; the inflammation is to be opposed by Med. Chir. Trans.Vol.4,p.33Q. .J. Cramp- every possible antiphlogistic means. But when, ton's Case of Rupture of the Stomach and notwithstanding such treatment, the swelling in- Escape of its Contents, <|"C. with Ohs. by B. creases and suppurates, the abscess is not to be Travers, in Med and Chir. Tram. Vol. 8, p. opened until it is perfectly mature. Theinttam- 228, £c. Richter, Anfangsgrun.de dcr Wun- matory symptoms, which preceded its formation, darzneykunst, B. 5, Kap. 1. Discourses on indicate that there is an adhesion between the the Nature and Cure of Wounds, by John injured organ and the parietes of the abdo- Bell, Edit. 3. L. Nannoni, De Similium par- men. Without this adhesion, opening the ab- tium humannm corpus constitutentmm regc- scess would be attended with more risk, because ncratione, Mediolani. 1782. Encyclopedic the pus, or other matter, might become extra- Methodique, Partie Chir. Art. Abdomen ct vasated in the cavity of the peritoneum. For Intestine. Dr. SmithV Inaugural Thesis. the same reason, in the examples of tumors, B. Travers, an Inquiry into the Process of caused by bile in the gall bladder, J. L. Petit Nature, in repairing Injuries of the Intcs- recommends deferring the operation of opening tines, &vo. 1812. J. Hunter on Gunshot Wounds. them, until the inflammatory symptoms evince, Sir A Cooper's work on Inguinal and Congcni- that an adhesion has taken place between the tal Hernia, Chap. 2, fol. 1804. Sabatier, Mc- fundus of the gall bladder, and the corresponding decine Operatoire, T. I. Petit, Essai svr les point of the parietes of the abdomen. Epancliemens, Suite dc VEssai sur IcsEpau- An adhesion of the abdominal viscera to the chemcns, in Mem. dc l’Acad, de Chir. inner surface of the peritoneum may be induced For information on wounds in general, see by other causes, besides the action of contusing Coes. Magatus, De Rara Medicationc Vul- bodies. A knife, a fork, a shoemaker’s awl, a nerum, sen de Vulneribus raro tractandis, fol. needle, and other extraneous substances -inca- Fen. 1616. A. Read, his Works, containing, pable of passing throughout the alimentary ca- I. Lectures on Tumors and Ulcers. 2. si nal, have been known to irritate the stomach, or Treatise of the first Part of Chirurgery, which bowel, and to bring on adhesion of them to the te.achcth the reunition of the parts of the Body parietes of the abdomen, where a tumor has disjointed, and the methodical doctrine of formed, which, on being opened, has discharged Wounds, <S[c. 2 Edit. 8vo. Land. 1650. Wcr- the foreign body. The records of surgery ncr, De Vulneribus absolute ct per accidens Ic- abound in facts of this kind. A fistula succeeds thalibus, Regwm. 1650. ./. Bohn, De Renun- the opening of the abscess; the alimentary mat- ciationc Vulnertim ; sen Viilnerum Lrthalium ter escapes; and if the aperture admit not of Examen, 12 mo. Lips. 1689. P. Ammannvs, being healed by methodical compression, the in- Praxis Vulnerum Icthalium, S[C. 12mo. Fran- testinal canal between the fistula and the anus cof. 1690. J. Colbateh, New Light of Sur- contracts; most of the contents of the bowels gcry, showing a more safe and speedy way of pass out at the preternatural opening, and the curing Wounds, than has hitherto been prar- patient falls into a state of marasmus, the more Used, 12mo. Loud. 1695. Ph. Cottr. Fabri- quickly fatal, the nearer the injury of the in- cius, Programma quo causa■ infrcqucnt'uc vul- testinal canal is to the atomach. nerum Icthalium, prop minus lethiferi sexfab- A long continued pressure on the epigastric rica corporis humani anatomica, et situpartium region may cause an adhesion of the stomach to prcrcipue eruuntur, Hclmsiad. 1753, John the peritoneum, and suppuration taking place at Hu.iter, a Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation,