49 AMP AMB in these desperate urgent cases. As for local treatment of the eye itself, it is obvious, that no- thing need here be said upon the subject. (See iittPj Lehreconden Augbnkr. B. 2, p. 576.584.) L. Hcisitr, Apologia ft ulterior Illustrutio Sys- tematis sui de Cataracta, Glaucomate, el Arnrn- rt'Si, 12mo. AltorJ, 1717. J. B. G. CEhme, de Amaurosi, 4to. Idps. 1748, in Halleri Disp. C/mV. 2. 265. Jos. Warner, Description of Human Eye, '"id diseases, 8w. Lontl. 1754. A. Ross de Amaurosi, Edinb. 1754. Diderot, An Essay on Blindness, transl. from the French, 12mo. Loud. 1773. Chalibert, A Dissertation upon the Gutta Serena, d^e. 8vo, Loud. 17/4. Lenka de Ivt zoivitz, Historiu Amauroseos, 2>vo. Vindob. 1781. Gins. FhijaniCollesioned’ Osservaz.&c. T. 4,p. 173.187, 8eo. Roma, 1803. D. G. Kieser, Ueber die Natur Ursachen, Kennzeichen und Heilung des schwarze S'aars, 8uo. Gott. 1811. Langenbeck, Neue Bibl. fur die Chirurgie, B. 1 ; Hannover, 1815. J. Beer, Lehre von den Augenkrankheitev, B. 2, 8co. Wien, 1817. James Wardrop, Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vol. 2, 8 vo. Land. 1818. The two latter books are works of the highest merit; and, as we have no transla- tion of the first, 1 have thrown a good deal of the information which it contains on amaurosis into the present Edition. B. A. Winkler, De Amaurosi, 12mo. Berol. 1818- Vermischte Chiruvgische Schriften von J. L. Schmucker, B. 2, Berlin. Ed. 2. 1786. Remarks on Ophthalmy, ifcc. by James Ware. Inquiry into the causes preventing success in the extraction of the Cataract, &;c. by the same. Osservazione sulle Malattie degli Occhi di A. Scarpa, Venes. 1802. This book has gone through five Editions in Italy. The last, which is much improved, has been well translated by Mr. Briggs. W. Hey in Practical Observations in Surgery, and Med. Obs. and Inquiries, Vol. 5. Schmucker’s Wuhrnehmungen, B. 1, p. 273. Richter’s An- fangsgrunde der Wundarzneykunst, B. 3. Chand- ler’s Treatise of the Diseases of the Eye, chap. 24. 8vo. Land. 1780. Some scattered remarks in the posthumous work on the diseases if the eye, of the lute J. C. Saunders, fyc. De Wenzel, Manuel de VOculiste, ou Dictionaire Ophthulmologique, 8vo. Paris, 1808. Many additional observations connected with the subject of Amaurosis will be found in the articles Cataract, Diplopia, Gutta Serena, He- meralopia, Hemiopia, Nyctalopia, Sight Defects °f> #c. AMBE. (from apt&n, the projecting edge of a rock.) An old chirurgical machine for reducing dislocations of the shoulder, and so called, because its extremity projects, like the prominence of a rock. Its invention is imputed to Hippocrates. The ambe is the most ancient mechanical contrivance for the above purpose; but, it is not at present employed. Indeed, it is scarcely to be met with in the richest cabinets of surgical apparatus. It is composed of a piece of wood, rising vertically from a pedestal. With the vertical piece is articulated, after the manner of a hinge, an horizontal piece, with a gutter formed in it, in which the luxated limb i»laid, and secured with straps. The patient places himself on one side of the machine; his arm is extended in the gutter, and secured ; the angle, formed by tie. union of the ascending piece, and by the onzontal branch, is lodged in the armpit, and then the horizontal branch is depressed. In this way extension is made, whilst the vertical part makes counter extension, and its superior part tends to force the head of the humerus into the articular cavity. But, there is nothing to lix the scapula, and the compression made by the su- perior portion of the vertical piece of the machine tends to force the head of the humerus into the glenoid cavity, before it is well disengaged by the extension. {BiryeronDiseasesoj the Bones, Vol. II.) AMBLYOPIA, (from apigxug, dull, and £»!%[,, the eye.) Hippocrates means by this word, in his Aph. 31. Sect. 3. the dimness of sight, to which old people are subject. Modern writers generally understand by amblyopia incomplete amaurosis, or the weakness of sight attending certain stages and forms of this disorder. (See L’ Encyclopedic Methodique; Partit Chirurgicale; Art. Amblyopic.) AMMONIAS MURIAS, AMMONIA MURIATA, or Sal Ammoniac. Its chief use in surgery is as an external discutient applica- tion. (See Lotio Ammon. Muriatic cum Aceto.) Mr. Justamond recommends the following application to milk-abscesses: Ammonia; Muriatae ^j. Spiritus Roris marini'lbj. Misce. Linen rags are to be wet with the remedy, and kept continually applied to the part affected. There can be little doubt of the utility of this lotion in dispersing the induration, left after mammary abscesses; but, while these cases are accompanied with much pain, tension, and in- flammation, emollient fomentations and poultices are to be preferred. AMPUTATION, (from amputatio.) This term signifies the operation of cutting off a limb, or other part of the body, as the breast, penis, &c. Such an operation frequently becomes indis- pensably proper, on the principle of sacrificing a branch, as it were, for the sake of taking the only rational chance of saving the trunk itself. In- deed, the suggestion of this measure, in cases of mortification, where there is no chance of the parts recovering, may be said to be derived from nature herself, who by a process, to which I shall advert in speaking of mortification, detaches the dead from the living parts; this separation is fol- lowed by cicatrization, and the patient recovers. The necessity for amputation has always ex- isted, and ever will continue, as long as the de- structive effects of injuries and diseases of the limbs cannot be obviated in any other manner. As Graefe observes, there was once a period, (I should say, about forty years ago) when the operation was more frequently practised, than at present, and this fact is to be imputed less to the caprice of surgeons, than to the imperfection of the means which used to be employed for the re- lief of local diseases. For then aneurisms of the limbs, and some other cases, at present treated with success, were always deemed incurable without amputation. Boucher, Gervaise, Faure, and Bilguer inveighed against the frequent per- formance of amputation on the field of battle; yet their arguments must prove of little value, unless a path were at the same time traced, which would conduct us to the method of remedying the circumstances which form the necessity for the operation. When this condition is fulfilled, and more effectual modes of treatment arc de- vised, as for instance, with respect to the gun-, A