i ease. But, modern experience evinces, that : disorder seldom now presents itself in forms bad and intractable as formerly; that it is n capable of spontaneously ceasing; and that hardly ever see cases, in which it is requisite to e mercury, except in very moderate quantities, leed, such is the change, that many surgeons pect that the very nature of the disease must re undergone a material alteration, or rnodi- tion. In England, in my opinion, every thing :o be referred to the improved manner of env- ying mercury only in moderate doses, and •er pushing its exhibition, till the constitution >iio impaired, that undescribable forms of dis- cs ensue, which are sometimes the compound :ct of mercury and syphilis together; and, in er instances, of that description, which sur- >ns now frequently call syphiloid, or pscudo- mhilitic, not depending upon the venereal ison at all, but upon a state of the system, ch mercury is known to aggravate in the rst degree. For additional information con- ning internal remedies for the venereal dis- ee, see Mercury, Guaiacum, Mczereon, iriatic Acid, Nitrous Acid, Sarsaparilla, Iphuric Acid, VVVith respect to the local treatment of the nptoms of lues venerea, Mr. Hunter thought, t none would in general be necessary, since constitutional treatment would commonly ect a cure. However, he admits, that some- .es the local effects will not give way, and the ts remain swollen in an indolent inactive t te, even after there is every reason to believe, : t the constitution is perfectly cured. In such «es, he recommends assisting the constitutional fcatment by local applications of mercury to the || t, either in the form of a plaster, or ointment, te latter application, he says, is the best, ten these are not sufficient, he advises an :mpt to be made to excite inflammation of •ther kind. He says, he has seen a venereal lc, which gave excruciating pain, cured by rely making an incision down to the bone, whole length of the node. The pain ceased, swelling decreased, and the sore healed up dly, without the assistance of a grain of rcury. He mentions, that blisters have been " ‘ ' the died to nodes with success, n, and taking away the swelling With regard to these last cases, I may add, • t, for many years past, the idea, of completely : persing nodes by mercury has been entirely ndoned in St. Bartholomew’s hospital. In } institution, long protracted mercurial courses the cure of such swellings are totally re- ]uished. When small moderate quantities of ’ rcury have had their full effect, a blister is ap- id over the swelling, and kept open, under ich plan the tumor generally subsides, as far its nature will allow. Diseases resembling the Venereal. Psendn- >hUis.— Sores on the glans penis, prepuce, • in the form of chancres, as Mr. Hunter ■ices, may and do ariss without any venereal tction, and sometimes thev are a consequence ormcr venereal sores, which have been cured. I lie symptoms, produced by the venereal *on in the constitution, are such as are com- n to many other diseases. For instance, Mr. inter remarks, that blotches on the skin arc common to what is called a scorbutic habit; pains are common to rheumatism; swellings of the bones, periosteum, fasciae, &c. to many bad habits, perhaps, of the serophulous and rheu- matic kind. Thus, says he, most of the sym- ptoms of the venereal disease, in all its forms, arc to be found in many other diseases. Hence, the original cause, and many leading circum- stances, such as dates, effects of the disorder upon others, from connexion, when only local, the previous and present symptoms, dpc. must be considered, before we can determine absolutely what the disease truly is. All the circumstances and symptoms, taken together, may be such, as will attend no other disease. However, Mr. Hunter confesses, that with all our knowledge, and with all the application of that knowledge to suspicious symptoms of this disease, we arc often mistaken, calling distempers venereal, which are not so, and sometimes supposing really syphilitic, affections to be of another nature. Mr. Hunter takes notice, that ifi some con- stitutions, rheumatism, in many of its symptoms, resembles the lues venerea. The nocturnal pains, swelling of the tendons, ligaments, and perios- teum, and pain in those swellings, are symptoms both of the rheumatism, and also of the venereal disease, when it attacks such parts. Mr. Hun- ter, however, did not know, that he had ever seen the lues venerea attack the joints, though many rheumatic complaints of such parts are cured by mercury, and therefore supposed to be venereal. Mercury, given without caution, often pro- duces the same symptoms as rheumatism. Such complaints Mr. Hunter had seen mistaken for venereal ones, and mercury continued. Fie ex- plains, that some diseases not only resemble the venereal in appearance, but in the mode of con- tamination, proving themselves to be poisons by affecting the part of contact; then producing immediate consequences similar to buboes ; and also remote consequences similar to the lues venerea. Mr. Hunter observes, that it is nearly as dan- gerous, in some constitutions, to give mercury, when the disease is not venereal, as to omit it in other cases, which arc really syphilitic ; and, had he been acquainted with recent investigations, he would undoubtedly have gone further, and de- clared, that it is in reality far more dangerous. Many of the constitutions, which put on some of the venereal symptoms, when the disease is not really present, he says, are those, with which mercury seldom agrees, and commonly does harm. He had seen mercury, which was ex- hibited for a supposed venereal ulcer of the ton- sils, produce a mortification of those glands, and tlie patient was nearly destroyed. Mr. Aberneth'y, in his Surgical Observations, 1804, has treated at some length of diseases re- sembling syphilis, and has adduced several very interesting cases, which I advise every surgical practitioner to read with the greatest attention, as in fact, they confirm the views of the subject lately so fully established. “ A gentleman (says lie,) thought that he had infected a slight cut on his hand (which was situ- ated in front of, and just below the little finger) with the discharge from a bubo in the groin, that lie had occasion to open. The wound fretted