ANTliUM. 1 of the collected fluid, as proposed by Jourdain in 1765, {Mem. dc T Acud. tic Chir. T. 4, p. 357.) Deschamps and Boyer are of opinion, that the method is objectionable, not only because it is difficult to find the aperture, which, ere the dis- ease forms an outward swelling, is probably obli- terated, but also because the thickness of the mucus collected would make it impossible for the surgeon to wash it out with injections. Hence, Boyer approves of the practice of opening the tumor in an eligible place, and to an extent suf- ficient for the discharge of the mucus. {Des- champs, TvtdledesMaladiesdesFossesNuztd.es, et tie leurs Sinus, p. 231, Qua.Par. 1804; Boyer Truile ties Mai. Chir. T. 6, p. 145, 8am Paris, 1818.) Indeed, that Jourdain’s proposal was attended with too much difficulty for common practice, was the sentence long ago pronounced upon.it by a com- mittee of the Royal Academy of Surgeons in France, nominated for the express purpose of en- quiring into the merits of the suggestion. The method of making an opening into the antrum, will be considered in the sequel of this article. As a general rule, I may here remark, that ex- cept where there is a tumor, or fungus to be ex- tirpated, or a foreign body to be extracted from the antrum, it is quite unnecessary to remove any part of the alveolary process, or cut away any of the bon}- parietes of the antrum, the drawing of one of the teeth situated below this cavity, and making a perforation in this situation, being the only kind of opening required. This aperture may be preserved as long as necessary by the introduc- tion of a piece of elastic gum catheter, which is to be fastened to the adjacent teeth, and through which the secretion in the antrum may escape, or lotions be injected. (See Deschamps TraiU des MaL des Fosses Nazales, $c. p. 234.) How- ever, as Hunter remarks, if the forepart of the bone has been destroyed, even though the case be merely a collection of mucus, or pus, an open- ing may be made on the inside of the lip ; but, on account of the difficulty of maintaining such an aperture, he still inclines to the practice of drawing one of the teeth. {Natural Hist, of the Teeth, p. 176, ed. 3.) Of all the above cases, abscesses are by far the most common. \ iolent blows on the cheek, in- flammatory affections of the adjacent parts, and especially, of the pituitary membrane lining the nostrils, exposure to cold and damp, and, above all things, bad teeth, may bring on inflammation and suppuration within the hollow of the upper jaw bone. The first symptom is a sensation of pain, at first imagined to be a tooth-ach, particu- larly if there should be a carious tooth, at this part of the jaw. Such pain, however, extends more into the nose, than that usually does, which arises from a decayed tooth : it also affects, more or less, the eye, the orbit, and the situation of the frontal sinuses. (See Hunter on the Teeth, p. 175, ml. 3.) But, even these symptoms are insuffici- ent to characterize the disease, the nature of which is not unequivocally evinced, till a much later period. The complaint is, in general, of much longer duration, than one entirely depend- ent on a caries of a tooth, and its violence in- creases more and more, until, at last, a hard tu- mor is perceptible below the cheek bone. By <fgrppS ()le swelling extends over the whole me,: but it afterwards rises to a point, and forms a very circumscribed hardness, which may be felt above the back grinders. This symptom is accompanied with redness, and sometimes with inflammation and suppuration of the external parts. It is not uncommon, also, for the out- ward abscess to communicate with that within the antrum. The circumscribed elevation of the tumor, however, does not occur in all cases. There are instances in which the matter makes its way towards the palate, causing the bones of this part to swell, and, at length, rendering them carious, unless timely assistance be given. There are other cases, in which the matter escapes between the fangs and sockets of the teeth. Lastly, there are certain examples, in which the matter formed in the antrum, makes its exit at the nostril of the same side, when the patient is lying with his head on the opposite one, in a low position. If this mode of evacuation should be frequently repeat- ed, it prevents the tumor, both from pointing ex- ternally, and bursting, as it would do if the puru- lent matter could find no other vent. But this evacuation of pus from the nostril is not very common ; for, according to Mr. Hunter, the opening between the antrum and cavity of the nose, is generally stopped up. This celebrated anatomist even seems inclined to think, as I have already observed, that the disease may sometimes be, occasioned by the impervious state of this opening, in consequence of which obstruction, the natural mucus of the antrum may collect there in such quantity, as to irritate and inflame the membrane, with which it is in contact, just like as an obstruction in the ductus nasalis hinders the passage of the tears into the nose, and causes an abscess in the lachrymal sac. This is a point, however, on which even Mr. Hunter would not venture to speak with certainty; for it is by no means impossible that the impervious state of the opening is rather an effect than the cause of the disease, since inflammation in the antrum is often manifestly produced by causes of a different kind, and since the opening in question is not invariably closed. Abscesses in the antrum require a free exit for their contents, and, if the surgeon neglects to procure such opening, the bones become more and more distended and pushed out, and, finally, carious. When this happens, the pus makes its appearance, either towards the orbit, the alveoli, the palate, or, as is mostly the case, towards the cheek. The matter having thus made a way for its escape, the disease now becomes fistulous. In all cases, whether the pus be simply con- fined in the antrum, or whether the case be con- joined with a carious affection of the bones, the principal indication is to discharge the matter. The ancients seem to have known very little about the treatment of diseases of the antrum. Drake, an English anatomist, is reputed to be the first proposer of a plan for curing abscesses of this cavity, {Authropologia Nova. Dondon, 1727.) Meibomius. however, nlongwhilebefore him, had proposed, with the same intention, the ex- traction of one or more of the teeth, in order that the matter might find an opening for its escape, through the sockets. This plan may be employ- ed with success. The pus frequently has a ten dcncy to make its way outward towards the teelu ; it often affects their fangs; and, alter their ex-