10G0 rushed with very large blood-vessels, and the fear of hemorrhage, which frequently deters sur- geons from operating, is quite unfounded. It is an undoubted fact, that there is no species of tumor, that can be removed with so much ce- lerity, with such apparent dexterity, or with such complete security against future consequences, as those of an adipose nature. However, now and then, when the tumor has been at all in an inflammatory state, the capsule becomes thick- ened, and intimately adherent to the surface of the swelling, so that the separation of the disease is more difficult, and requires the knife to be more freely employed. The tumor also sometimes becomes, after inflammation, closely adherent to the contiguous parts. Adipose tumors often acquire an enormous magnitude. Indeed, there can be no doubt of the fact stated by Sir Astlev Cooper, that they acquire a greater magnitude, than any other swelling ever reaches. Mr. Abernethy relates an example of one, removed by Mr. Cline, which weighed between 14 and 15lbs., and, which I saw myself previously to the operation. Sir Astley Cooper also men- tions the successful extirpation of several adi- pose tumors of immense size: one weighing Idlb. 10|. removed by himself; another weigh ing 1 Albs, removed by Mr. Cline; and a third, weighing 22lbs. removed from a lady’s thigh by Mr. Copeland. But, the most remarkable case is one, in which Sir Astley Cooper lately removed a fatty swelling, which weighed, independently of the blood in it, 371bs. lOozs., and was situated on the abdomen of a man, aged 57. (See Med. C'/tir. Trans. Vol. 11, p. 440.) Although it is true, that when adipose swellings attain an enor- mous bulk, the immense size of a wound, requi- site for their removal, must be dangerous, and is a strong argument in favour of having recourse to the operation at an earlier period, yet it is equally true, that large fatty swellings may be taken out, with a greater prospect of success, than any other kind of tumor, of equal size. The next species of sarcoma, noticed in Mr. Abernethy’s classification, is what this gentleman names pancreatic, from the resemblance of its structure to that of the pancreas. This kind of disease, according to Mr. Abernethy, is occa- sionally formed in the cellular substance; but, more frequently, in the female breast, on that side of the nipple, which is next to the arm. When a pancreatic sarcoma is indolent, and in- creases slowly, the surrounding parts, and the glands in the axilla, are not affected. But, some of these swellings deviate from their common character, and become of a very irritable nature, occasioning severe and lancinating pain, and producing an inflammatory state of the skin co- vering them, so that it becomes adherent to their surface. The absorbents leading to the axilla are also irritated, and the glands enlarged. Pancreatic sarcoma does not grow to a very large size; but, when its progress is unrestrained, the pain, attendant on the disease, becomes lan- cinating, and so severe, as to make the patients feverish, and lose their health and strength. Mr. Abernethy remarks, that, when the axillary glands become affected, one generally swells at first, and is extremely tender and painful; but, TUMOR. To another species of sarcoma, Mr. Aber- ncthy applies the epithet mastoid, or mammary, from the resemblance which this gentleman conceives its structure bears to that of the mam- mary gland. This kind of disease, Mr. Aber- nathy says he has not often seen. In the ex- ample, which he met with, the tumor was about as large as an orange, and situated on a woman’s- thigh. The swelling was removed by an opera- tion ; but, the wound afterwards degenerated into a malignant ulcer, attended with consider- able induration of the surrounding parts, and tke woman died of the disease in two months. Mr. Abernethy conceives, that the whole of the mor- bid part had been cut away, but, that the conti- guous parts had a disposition to disease, which was -irritated by the operation, and, that if the nature of the case could have been known before- hand, it would have been right to have made a freer removal of the substance surrounding the tumor. Mr. Abernethy places the mastoid sarcoma, between such sarcomatous swellings as are at- tended with no malignity, and the following ones, which have this quality in a very destruc- tive degree. The tubercnlated sarcoma is composed of a great many small, firm, roundisli tumors of dif- ferent sizes and colours, connected together by cellular substance. Some of the tubercles are as large as a pea; others equal a horsebean in size; most of them are of a brownish red co- lour ; but some are yellowish. Mr. Abernethy mentions his having seen this species of sarcoma chiefly in the lymphatic glands of the neck. The disease proceeds to ulceration ; becomes a pain- ful and incurable sore; and ultimately occasions death. Another kind of sarcoma, mentioned in Mr. Abernethy’s classification of tumors, is distin- guished by the epithet medullary, from its having the appearance of the medullary matter of the brain. It appears to be an exceedingly malig- nant disease; communicates to the lymphatic glands a similar distemper; ulcerates and sloughs, and at last proves fatal. It is particularly apt to make its attack on the testis, and it is treated of in another part of this book. (See Testicle, Diseases of.) Mr. Abernethy includes also in his classifica- tion, carcinomatous sarcoma. (See Cancer.) I must refer to another article, [Mamma, Removal of,) for an account of the plan of re- moving sarcomatous tumors. Besides many operations, which have of late years been performed, and are remarkable, oa account of the great size of the swellings re- moved, others, still more interesting, claim at- tention, on account of the nature and situation of the parts extirpated. On the excision of the thyroid gland, I need not here dwell, as it is else- where noticed (Sec Thyroid Gland)', but, I feel called upon to mention some other very few upon bold operations, executed within the last years. The first is that, performed, by Mr* Goodlad, of Bury, in Lancashire. The case was an immense tumor, situated on the left side of the face and neck, and the base of which was about twenty-eight inches in circumference. nntllllC