1208 WOUNDS. After many other pertinent observations, blended with appropriate satire on the extrava- gant notions professed by Monro, on tl)Q bad effects of the air, in lithotomy, operations for hernia and hydrocele, the Cassarean section, &c. Mr. John Bell most justly holds up to ridicule the propositions of Dr. Aitken, to perforin this last operation under the cover of a rearm bath in order to exclude the air. “ This, though it may seem to be a scurvy piece cf wit, was really proposed in sober serious earnest. But (adds Mr. John Bell), the admission of atmospheric air, as a stimulus, when compared with the great incisions of lithotomy, of hernia, of hy- drocele, of Caesarean section, of the trepan, is no more than the drop of the bucket to the waters of the ocean. And it is just as poor logic to say, that, ‘after such desperate ope- rations, these cavities are inflamed by the ad- mission of air, as it would be to say, (as Monro did) that when a man is run through the peri- cardium with a red-hot poker, that the heart and pericardium are inflamed by the admission of the air.” (P. 347, Edit. 3.) Enough, I conceive, has been said, to dispel all the idle fear and prejudices, which have prevailed concerning the bad effects of the air in wounds of the abdomen, as well as several other cases. When so justly eminent a man as Dr. Alexander Monro, senior, was disturbed by such appre- hensions, it is not wonderful, that many a poor ordinary member of the profession should have been terrified nearly out of his wits upon the subject; and for quieting this alarm, and expos- ing its absurdities, I really think Mr. John Bell deserving particular praise. In general, in all cases of wounds of the ab- domen, it is an excellent rule, never to be offi- cious about abscesses, which may take place, nor to exhibit a partiality to such experiments as have been devised for learning precisely what bowel is wounded. It is quite time enough to interfere, when the urgency of the symptoms confirm any suspicions which may be enter- tained. A great deal of harm is frequently done' by handling and disturbing the wounded parts more than is necessary, anil, it is well known, that wounds, at first attended with alarming sym- ptoms, frequently have a favourable termination. Swords, balls, and other weapons, sometimes pass completely through the body, without the patient suffering afterwards any threatening sym- ptom, or, indeed, any effects which, abstractedly considered, would authorize the inference, that the viscera had been at all injured. Severe in- flammations may not end in suppuration, and when pus is formed, it is sometimes absorbed again. Nothing then indicates the necessity for the discharge of purulent matter in the abdomen, unless the fluctuation and situation of the abscess be very distinct, and the quantity and pressure of the matter clearly productive of inconveniences. Under these circumstances, the surgeon should make a cautious puncture with a lancet. Protrusion of the Viscera.—The omentum and small intestines are the parts most liable to protrusion; but, in large wounds, the great in- testines, the stomach, .and even the liver and spleen, may project through the opening. rlhe general symptoms, indicating a protrusion of the parts, are sufficiently obvious; but, it deserves attention, that, in fat subjects, the adipose mem- brane may project from the wound, and put on somewhat of the appearance of omentum. The special symptoms are to be collected from a knowledge of the natural situation of the parts, and reflecting what region of the abdomen is wounded. (Callisen, Syst. Chir. Ilodierna, T. 1 ,p. 702 and 703, edit. 17P8.) From penetrating wounds considerable por- tions of the bowels, or omentum, sometimes pro- trude, and, though these viscera may not have received injury, yet their being displaced, is sometimes productive of fatal consequences. The best mode of preventing such mischief, is to return the viscera into the cavity of the ab- domen, as speedily as possible. Almost all authors recommend fomenting the displaced parts, previously to the attempt at reduction; but, in giving this advice, they seem to forget, that, while time is lost in this preparatory mea- sure, the protruded bowels suffer much more harm from exposure, that is to say, from the very cir- cumstance of their being out of their natural si- tuation, than they can possibly receive good from any application made to them. No kind of fomen- tation can be half so beneficial, as the natural warmth and moisture of the cavity of the abdo- men. In order to facilitate the return of a pro- truded piece of intestine, or omentum, the ab- dominal muscles should be relaxed by placing the patient in a suitable posture, and the large intestines emptied with a glyster. In mention- ing the last measure, it is not meant, that the surgeon should delay the attempt to reduce the part, until the glyster has operated. No, this means is only enumerated as one that may be- come serviceable, in case the surgeon cannot im- mediately accomplish the object in view.—The mesentery ought always to be reduced before the intestine; the intestine before the omentum; but, the last protruded portion of each of these parts ought to be the first reduced. It is only when the intestine and omentum are free from gangrene and mortification, that they are invariably to be returned into the cavity of the belly, without hesitation. Also, when the protruded parts are covered with sand, dust, or other extraneous matter, they should be tenderly washed with a little tepid water. For the reduction of the parts, the fore-fingers are the most convenient, and, it is a rule to keep the portion first returned, from protruding again, by one finger, until it has been followed by ano. ther portion, introduced by the other finger. The second piece is to be kept up, in the same way, by the finger used to return it; and so on, till the displaced parts have all been put into their' natural situation. In attempting to reduce a piece of protruded intestine, the patient should be placed in the most favourable posture; the head and chest should be elevated, and the pelvis raised with pillows. Nothing can be more absurd, than the advice to put the thorax rather lower than the pelvis, in order that the weight of the viscera may tend to draw inward the protruded parts. This is another erroneous idea, arising front the ridiculous supposition, that a great part of the abdomen is actually an empty cavity. The re-