ANEURISM. m Scarpa thinks, that the fact is not proved, as it is presumed to be, that the rupture of the in- ternal and middle coats of the artery does excite the adhesive inflammation and union of the artery more effectually, than is done by the simple compression and close contact of its two oppo- site internal parietes in a sound and uninjured state. This remark is partly true, and partly incorrect, at the same time that it involves a question, which must be deferred till we come to the article Hemorrhage. The truth in the observation is, that an artery may generally be rendered impervious with tolerable certainty, by compressing its opposite parietes steadily and firmly together for a certain time, without dividing its inner coats: the inaccuracy cf it depends upon the fact, that, surgeons have no instru- ment, nor contrivance (not excepting even the ligature of four or six threads, with the interpo- sition of the cylinder of linen spread with oint- ment), which can retain the opposed undivided surfaces of the inner coats of the vessel closely together in the manner commended by Scarpa - and for the due time, without the objection of denuding more of the artery, than need be done in the application of a small ligature; or without the serious inconvenience, and risk, necessarily attending the introduction of a larger quantity of extraneous matter into the wound, than is desirable, with the view of averting all chance of : the ulceration of the artery reaching beyond pprudent limits. And, when metallic instruments - are used for the same purpose, objections not iless real are incurred, as will be hereafter more pparticularly explained. Scarpa considers his mode of ligature ought t to be preferred, as combining the triple advan- tage of preserving entire all*the three coats of t the artery; of exciting quickly, and in a proper degree, the adhesive inflammation in them; and of retarding, as much as possible, the ulcerative r process of the arterial tube. Partly impressed, however, with the truth of t the tenets laid down by Dr. Jones (See He- morrhage), Scarpa enjoins attention to the follow- ing rules. 1. Not to insulate and detach the artery ■ any further, than is necessary for allowing a liga- ' lure to he passed around it. 2. Not to let the (■'cylinder of linen exceed a line in length, or a l little more above and below the breadth of the ! tape, which is about a line for the large arteries of the extremities. 3. That the ligature be not : too tight 4. And that it be never applied im- mediately below the origin of a large lateral branch. 'See Scarpa on Aneurism, p. 44, Ed. 2.) Some further consideration of Seaqia’s mode of applying the ligature will be introduced in : :he article Hemorrhage; and I now proceed to lotice his sentiments concerning the advantage, «.vhich may be derived from removing the liga- ture in cases of aneurism, as soon as the tube of the vessel has been obliterated by the adhesive inflammation. Now, from the facts recorded jy Scarpa, it is inferred, that, with the kind of “.igature and the cylinder of linen used in his oractice, the closure of the artery by the adhe- sive inflammation and the two internal coagula is sufficiently far advanced on the third, or fourth I after the operation, to resist the impulse of the blood; and hence (says he) there is no ra- IJ tional motive for waiting beyond this time for the spontaneous separation of the ligature, or for allowing it, by its further presence, to ulcer- ate, and even open the artery at the principal point of adhesion. He then comments on the advantages to the wound, derived from the re- moval of all extraneous matter from it on the third, or fourth day. With respect to the general period of such removal, however, he makes one exception, viz. the case of great and evident debility from sickly constitution, or very advanced age, as it is observed, that, in such patients, the reunion of a simple wound is fre- quently protracted to the sixth day. In cases of this description Scarpa recommends delaying the removal of the ligature to the completion of the fifth, or sixth day, but under the express condition, that the ligature has been applied with the interposi- tion of a cylinder of linen; as it is proved, that a common circular ligature causes ulceration of the artery before the third day, and it is not till the sixth day, that the external coat of the vessel begins to ulcerate, when the other modification of the ligature is adopted, (p. 50.) Scarpa supports the preceding advice by four cases, in which his kind of ligature was applied, and withdrawn at the end of the third, or fourth day, and the arterial tube obliterated. How- ever, I do not think, that, in England, these cases, when minutely and attentively considered, will be regarded as inducements to persevere in the use of temporary ligatures. In every in- stance, the wound is described as suppurating, and sometimes plentifully. In one, the foot mortified, and amputation became necessary. In another, the very day after the disturbance of removing the ligature, the thigh was attacked with erysipelas, and, on the eighth day, the wound is represented as being foul, and the erysipelas not yet cured. Independently of the uncertainty of the period, when the arterial tube is closed by the adhesive inflammation in various patients, it appears to me, that the disturbance of the vessel and wound, by the steps necessary for the loosening and re- moval of the ligature, will ever form an in- superable objection to the practice. Scarpa appears to have some apprehension of this kind himself; for he remarks, “In the act of re- moving the ligature, there can be no doubt it is of great consequence, that the arterj' be not rudely handled, or stretched. And, indeed, if, on untying the running knot, the subjacent knot could be with the same facility untied, we could not wish for a better mode of performing this part of the operation. But, the knot, although a simple one, is not so readily untied, as the running knot, on account of the moisture, with which the threads forming the ligature are soaked, or because the ligature has been pre- viously waxed.” (P. 64, Ed. 2.) In fact, his apprehensions then lead him to suggest the scheme of placing, previously to making the knot, a thread longitudinally, on each side of the cylinder, and at the time of removing the ligature, the threads are to be drawn in opposite directions, in order to undo the knot, without displacing, or stretching the artery. Thus, instead of one small ligature, which is all that an English surgeon leaves in the wound, Scat pa recommends his ligature of four, or six threads, a roll of linen, and two other threads; a quantity of