429 EXFOLIATION. fill up the intermediate space, so that there is no vacuum. These different stages together consti- tute ulceration. When any part of a bone is once loose, it is pushed to the surface in the same manner, as most other inanimate bodies would be, and this stage is partly mechanical, and partly a continuation of ulceration. A proof of the third stage, above mentioned, may be derived from cases, in which people die, while exfoliation is going on. A small groove, or worm eaten canal, can then be discovered, which becomes gradually deeper, and follows the ir- regularities of the living and dead surfaces. After the application of the trepan, a circular piece of bone is frequently thrown off, which is always less than the space from which it came. This, as Mr. Hunter observed, would never be the case, were there not a loss of substance. “ Although (says Mr. Wilson) in general the absorption takes place in the living bone, it still appears, that, under peculiar circumstances, the absorbing vessels have the power of acting on and removing the substance of dead bone. "I his happens after the dead part has been separated from the living, and when from its shape, and the form of the living surrounding bo.ne, it is prevented from obtaining ajpassage to the sur-. face of the body; as in exfoliations of the cra- nium, when the inner table of the exfoliated part is broader and wider, than the outer table.’’ (On the Skeleton, <5fc. p. 282.) In very hard bones, the colour of the dead, exfoliating portion is generally white; but, in softer bones, it is yel- low, dark, and sometimes black. (Wilson, op. cit.) It was anciently believed, that whenever a bone was denuded, the exposed surface must necessarily exfoliate, and, this being taken for granted, the old surgeons used to put imme- diately in practice whatever they thought best calculated to bring on an exfoliation as quickly as possible. For this purpose, the actual cautery was usually applied to the part of the bone, which was uncovered, and, as under such treatment, a portion of the bone was of course killed, and then exfoliated, the prejudiced practitioner believed, that he had only accelerated a process, which must of necessity have followed in a more slow and tedious manner. According to Mr. Hunter, neither caustics, nor the actual cautery, hasten exfoliation ; they only produce deatli in a part of the bone, which is the first step towards exfoliation, and if they ever hasten exfoliation, when the bone is already dead, it must be by producing inflammation in the ■ adjacent living bone; a change that makes it exert a power, of which it was previously in- capable. Exfoliation is not a necessary consequence of a □one being laid bare, and deprived of its perios- :eum. If the bone be in other respects unin- ured, healthy, and enjoying a vigorous circula- tion of blood through its texture, granulations vill be generated on the surface of such bone, ■vhich will cover and firmly adhere to it, without he smallest exfoliation being thrown off; espe- ially, in young subjects. But, if caustic, sti- nulating, or drying applications be made use of, >r the bone be left for a considerable time ex- rosed, the circulation in the superficial portion jf it will necessarily be disturbed and destroyed, and that part of the surface, through which the circulation ceases to be carried on, will be separated, and cast of!) by the process of ex- foliation. If any application to an exfoliating portion of bone be at all efficacious, it must be one, which will stop the mortification in the affected bone, and promote the absorption of those particles of phosphate of lime, which form the connexion between that which is living and that which is ac- tually dead. And as the bone dies from the same causes, as the soft parts mortify, we should at least follow in practice the same principles which we adopt in the latter instance; and though, from the inferior vascularity, and vital power of bones, we cannot expect surgery to have as much control over their affections, as over those of the soft parts, yet, every good will thus be obtained, which it is possible to acquire. Attention to such principles will at least teach us to refrain from making the death of part of a bone more ex- tensive, than it would be, if the cautery, caustics, and strong astringents, were not employed. The best mode of attempting to prevent an exfoliation from occurring at all in a bone, that has been exposed by a wound, is, to cover the part again, as soon as possible, with the flesh, which has been detached from it. This, as I shall hereafter notice, (see Head, Injuries. of,) may generally be practised with advantage, when the scalp has been detached from the cranium, provided the flap have still even the most limited connexion with the rest of the integuments. When the exposed bone cannot be covered, it should be dressed with the mildest and sim- plest applications, with plain lint, or lint spread with the unguentum cetaceum. The dead pieces of bone, when very tedious in exfoliating, when wedged in the substance of the surrounding living bone, and when so situated as to admit of being safely sawn, or cut away, may sometimes be advantageously removed in this manner. (See Curies and Ne- crosis.) In such operations, Mr. Hey’s saws maybe employed with great convenience; and where these are not applicable, that invented by Mr. Machell, and described in Mr. A. Cooper’s Surgical Essays, or another devised by Graefe, and explained by Schwalb (De Serra Orbiculari, 4to. Berol. 1819), deserve to be recollected. In speaking of necrosis, I shall have occasion to notice the efficacy of blisters, kept open with the savin cerate, in quickening the process by which dead portions of bone are loosened, as par- ticularly pointed out by the late Mr. Crowther, in his work on the white swelling. Tenon published three Memoirs on the Exfolia- tion of Bones. The two first are inserted at pages 372, and 403, Men. de l’Acad, des Sciences, 1758; the third at p. 223 of the same Work, for 1700. P. Poissonicr, An recenti vulnere rmdqtis ossibus eifoliatis? cnnclusio negans, 4to. Pumsii, 17G0. Journ. de Mid. par M. Roux, I. 31, p. 801, T. 32, p. 181, T. 33, p. Ib'ff T. 36, p. 537, T. 38, p. 153, T. 39, />• 432. Thcde.n, Neue Bermerkungen, Sfc. hop. 3, Hvo. Berlin, 1782. 'Irons, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 2, />. 277, <Sfc. Wiedman in his excellent book, entitled " De A ccrosi Os- sium,,, has given on account of the various opi- nions of several distinguished writers, concerning