352 CAU lowing case, mentioned in a respectable periodi- cal work, fully proves the truth of this remark. Some years ago, a surgeon, practising in the / country, was required to introduce the catheter tor a lady labouring under retention of urine. .During the operation, lie was observed to ex- hibit signs of confusion, and to quit his patient in considerable embarrassment. The same day he abruptly left his home, and was never seen afterwards. The .lady passed several years of dreadful suffering, attributed by herself and the professional gentleman, on whom the treatment of the case devolved, to aggravation of the ori- ginal complaint. At length, an abscess presented itself in the sacral region, and the surgeon punctured it, when his instrument came in con- tact with some unusually hard substance imbedded in the centre of the abscess. With a pair of for- ceps, he now extracted to his utter astonishment a blackened female catheter. From this period, the lady’s sufferings all terminated. A similar accident nearly happened in the practice of an- other gentleman. (See Medico-Chir. Jnurn. Vo!. 5, p. 75, Land. 1818. (See Urine, Retention of,) J. Hunter, Treatise on theVenereal Disease, Ed. v, in various places. Hey’s Practical Observations in Surgery, E<1. 3. John Bell’s Principles, Vul. 2. Ware on the Catheter. Sketches of the Medi- cal Schools of Paris, by J. Cross, p. 111, &c. Jos. M‘Sweeny, Observations on the Catheter, Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journ. No. 58, p. 52. Richter’s Anfangsgr. der Wundarzneykunst. Rees's Cyclo- ptedia, Art. Catheter. Langenbeck, 1 Bib!, fur die Chir. B. 1, p. 1175, 12mo. Gdtt. 1806. Desault, lEuvres Chir. T. 3. The Observations on the Catheter, by Desault, Richter, J. Hunter, and Hey, are the best, ivith which I am acquainted. CATLING, often spelt in surgical books, callin, is a long, narrow, double-edged, sharp- pointed, straight knife, which is chiefly used in amputations of the leg and fore-arm, for dividing the interosseous ligaments and the muscles, &c. situated between the two bones. The catling is fre- quently made too wide and large, so that it cannot execute its office with the right degree of ease. CAUSTICS, (from xatu>, to burn.) Medi- cines, which destroy parts by burning, or chemi- cally decomposing them. The potassa fusa (kali purum,) the potassa cum calce (calx cum kali puro,) the antimonium muriatum, the argenti nitras, the hydrargyri nitrico-oxydum, the acidum sulphuricum, and the cupri sulphas, are the caustics in most frequent use among surgeons. CAUTERIZATION, (from to cauterize.) The act of burning any part with a cautery. CAUTERY, (from maw, to burn.) Cau- teries are of two kinds, viz. actual and potential. 13v the first term, is implied a heated iron ; by the second, surgeons understand any caustic ap- plication. The high opinion, which the ancients enter- tained of the efficacy of the actual cautery, may -be well conceived from the following passage. «' Quoscumque morbos medicaments non sanant, ferrum sanat; quos ferrum non sanat ignis sanat; quos vero ignis non sanat, insanabilcs existimarc opportet.” (llipy. Sect. 8, Aph.G.) 1 lie actual cautery has been employed for the stoppage of -bleeding, where the vessels could neither be tied, CER nor compressed. It lias been also employed for I the deslruction of carcinomatous tumors and I ulcers ; fistulas; polypi, and a variety of fungous j diseases. Whoever looks over the writings of I Hippocrates, will discover that the actual cau- I tery was a principal means of relief in several I chronic affections, as dropsies, diseased joints, &c. I In modern times, the actual cautery has been more and more relinquished, in proportion as | surgery has attained a higher state of improve- I ment. On the continent, however, it still retains I advocates. In France, all the professors recom- mend and employ it in particular cases. The hos- pital gangrene, a peculiar disorder, which is much ! more frequently seen in foreign hospitals, is said to be little affected by any internal remedies. “ Vegetable and diluted mineral acids are the local means employed with effect in mild cases. I have (says Mr. Cross) already alluded to a case of Pelletan’s, where carbon was applied, and the progress of the disease impeded. Tut, the actual cautery is the only means, that has been found effectual, in stopping the fatal progress of bad cases of hospital ulcer, and the iron is applied red hot, so as to produce an eschar on every point of the surface of the sore.” (See Sketches j of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. Cross, p. 84.) Desault often employed the actual cautery to destroy fungous tumors of the antrum. (See Atilrusn.) The same practice is still followed by Pelletan and other eminent surgeons in France. Mr. Cross saw it adopted in one such case with good effect. (P. P>6.) That part of the fungus, which can be cut away, is to be so removed, and the deeper portion, out of the reach of the knife, is to be cauterized. If there be an}r case in sur- gery, justifying the use of a red hot iron, it is - a fungus of the antrum. But, even in this in- stance, I should prefer any other certain mode of destroying the root of the disease. CERATOTOME. (from Kira;, a horn, and to cut.) The name given by Wenzel to the knife, wth which he divided the cornea, or horny coat of the eye. CERATUM CALAMINiE. (L.) A good simple dressing. CERATUM CETACEI. (L.) The sper- maceti cerate. A mild, unirritating salve, for ■ common purposes. CERATUM CONII. }y. Unguenti CmiiHbj. . (See Unguentum.) Cetacei ^ij. Cerer Albas, Jiij. M. One of the formulae at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, occasionally applied to cancerous, scro- \ fulous, phagedenic, herpetic, and other inve* : terate sores. CERATUM HYDRARGYRI SUBMLL RIATIS. Hydrarg. Submit'-intis, 3i.Ccrati Lopid. Calamin. ^ss. M. Some practitioners are partial to this as a dressing for chancres. CERATUM LYTT/E. (L.) This, which was lately called the cerate of cantharides, was once much used for stimulating blistered sur- faces, in order to maintain a discharge. The ceratum sabinse, however, which answers much better, and is not attended with danger of bring* ing on strangury, inflammation of the bladder, See., lias almost superseded the ceratum lyttae. CERATUM PLUM HI SUPERACETA- TIS. (L.) An eligible, mildly astringent, un- irritating salve. CERATUM PLUMBI COMPOSITUM - t.