URETHRA. 108:7 spasms, in the part, attended with a very trou- blesome retention ot urine. If the smallest bougie cannot be made to pass a stricture, by using some degree of force, di- latation becomes impracticable; and, as the stric- ture must be destroyed, something else must be tried. In many cases, says Mr. Hunter, it may be proper to get rid of the stricture, by making it ulcerate, or, in other words, be absorbed. Bougies, intended to excite ulceration, need not be so small as in the foregoing cases, as they are not designed to be passpd through the stricture; and, in consequence of being of the common size, they may be more surely applied to the parts causing the obstruction. The force applied to a bougie, in this case, should not be great: for a stricture is the hardest part of the urethra; and if a bougie is forcibly pushed on, its end may slip off the stricture, before ulceration has com- menced, and make a false passage for itself in the corpus spongiosum urethrae. In trying to cure strictures by ulceration, the utmost attention must be paid; and if the pa-, tient does not make water better, notwithstanding the bougie passes further, the surgeon may be sure that he is forcing a false passage. When the stricture has so far yielded, as to allow a small bougie to be introduced, the treat- ment is then to be conducted on the principle of dilatation. Mr. Hunter observes, that whenever a bougie of a tolerable size passes with ease, and the parts and the patient have become accustomed to it, the surgeon need no longer attend for the pur- pose of introducing it. The patient may now be allowed to introduce bougies himself; and when he can do this with ease, the business may be trusted to him, as he can make use of the in- struments at the most convenient times, so that they may be more frequently, and longer, ap- plied. In the mean while, the surgeon should only pay occasional visits. Mr. Hunter adds, that this practice of the patient, under the sur- geon’s eye, by which means the former learns the art of introducing bougies, is the more ne- cessary, since strictures are diseases which com- monly recur; and, therefore, no man who has ever had a stricture, and is cured of it, should rely on the cure as lasting; but should always be prepared for a return, and always have some bougies by him. He should not go a journey, even of a week, without them; and the number should be according to the time which he is absent, and the place to which he is going ; for, in many parts of the world, lie cannot be supplied with them. To prevent the inconvenience of a bougie slipping out, or the mischief of its gliding into the urethra, a soft cotton thread must be tied round that end of the bougie which is out of the urethra, and then round the root of the glans. This last part of the thread should be very loose. The projecting portion of the bougie should also be bent down upon the penis, by which means it i3 rendered less troublesome, and more secure. (See Hunter on the Venc- T'al pi.icii.ie.) When a considerable part of the 'ougie remains out of the urethra, surgeons usu- ally clip a piece of it off. In many examples, in which a stricture is accompanied with excessive irritability in the urethra, much pain, and a tendency to frequent retentions of urine, when a common bougie is employed, it becomes advisable to alter the plan of treatment, and use either flexible metallic, or elastic gum bougies. (Sec Bougie.) Desault commonly cured all strictures by the skilful em- ployment of flexible gum catheters, which his patients were directed to wear a certain length of time every day. These last instruments pro- duce less pain and irritation than any kind of bougie, more especially when the wires are with- drawn; and were I to be myself afflicted with strictures, I should feel strongly disposed to attempt their removal by the use of elastic gum catheters, which are unquestionably the mildest and least painful means of cure. I have seen cases, however, in which the flexible metallic bougie seemed to cause much less irritation than any other kind of bougie; but, in general, those made of elastic gum give the least pain. Me- tallic bougies possess the advantage of retaining the exact curvatu :e of the passage better than others; and, as I have observed, they enable the surgeon to employ more force, and this with more pre- cision than can be done with a wax bougie. Yet, as force is not a principle to be much commended in the treatment of ordinary strictures, I doubt whether such instruments will long retain as many employers as they have now acquired, and many of wliotn use them indiscriminately in all cases. Small catgut bougies are chiefly eligible, when the cure by dilatation is preferred, and the smallest bougies of other descriptions cannot bo introduced through the stricture. CUKE OF STRICTURES WITH THE AnGENTUIU NITRATUM. Wiseman makes mention of the plan of curing strictures in the urethra by means of caustic. Ho observes, that, when the obstruction is a caruncle, and you cannot pass it, you may well conclude it is callous: “ in which case, you may pass a cannula into the urethra to that caruncle, and, whilst you hold it there steady, you may convey a grain of caustic into the cannula, and press the caustic to it; and, whilst you hold it there, you will perceive its operation, by the pressing for- ward of the cannula.” About the year 1752, Mr." Hunter attended a chimney-sweeper, who had a stricture. Not finding that any benefit was derived from the use of common bougies, for a space of six months, Mr. Hunter, unaware of the above passage in Wiseman, conceived, that the stricture might be destroyed by escharotics, and the first attempt, which he made, was with red precipitate. He put some salve on the end of a bougie, and then dipped it in red precipitate. The bougie, in this state, was passed down to the stricture; but, Mr. Hunter found, that it brought on consider- able inflammation all along the inside of the passage, as he thought, in consequence of the precipitate being rubbed off, while the bougie was passing to the stricture. He then intro- duced a silver cannula down to the stricture, and again passed the bougie with precipitate through the tube. As the patient, however, did not make water any better, and the smallest bougie could not be introduced through the stricture, it