GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 525 «< the effects of a gun-shot wound differ so ma- terially in different men, and the appearances are so various, according to the nature of the part wounded, and the greater, or lesser force with which it has been struck, that no invariable train of symptoms can be laid down as its neces- sari; concomitants. If a musket or pistol-ball has struck a fleshy part, without injuring any ma- terial bloodvessel, we see a hole, about the size of, or smaller, than the bullet itself, with a more or less discoloured lip, forced inwards; and, if it has passed through the parts, we find an everted edge, and a more ragged and larger orifice at the point of its exit. The hemorrhage is in this case very slight, and the pain inconsiderable, inso- much that, in many instances, the wounded man is not aware of his having received any injury. If, however, the ball has torn a large vessel, or nerve, the hemorrhage will generally be profuse, or the pain of the wound severe, and the power of the part lost. Some men will have a limb carried oft', or shattered to pieces by a cannon- ball, without exhibiting the slightest symptoms of mental or corporeal agitation; nay, even without being conscious of the occurrence; and when they are, they will coolly argue on the probable result of the injury; while a deadly paleness, instant vomiting, profuse perspiration, and universal tremor, will seize another on the receipt of a slight flesh wound. This tremor, which has been so much talked of, and, which, to an inexperienced eye, is really terrifying, is soon relieved by a mouthful of wine, or spirits, or by an opiate; but, above all, by the tenderness and sympathizing -manner of the surgeon, and his assurance of the patient’s safety.” (Princi- ples of Mil. Surgery, p. 33, Ed. 2.) On the other hand, it is correctly noticed by Mr. Guthrie, that the continuance of the con- stitutional alarm, or shock, ought to excite great suspicion of serious injury; and, when wounds have been received in such situations, or bear such appearances, as render it doubtful, whether any parts of vital importance have been injured, or not, the manner, in which the constitutional perturbation lasts, may be assumed as evidence of the fact, when other symptoms, more indica- tive of the injury, are wanting ; and, under all such circumstances, a very cautious prognosis should be delivered. (On Gun-Shot Wounds, p. 11, Ed. 2.) Respecting the general character of gun-shot wounds not to bleed much, unless large vessels be injured, it is a fact, which necessarily depends upon the degree of contusion usually attending these injuries. But it is also true, as the pre- ceding author has stated, that, although some gun-shot wounds bleed but little at first, there is in the greater number of cases more or less of blood ; and in wounds of vascular parts, like the face and neck, the quantity lost is often con- siderable, though the main arterial branches may not be injured. (O/?. cit. p. 6, Ed. 2.) In gun-shot wounds, another circumstance is observed, which is often remarked in other cases, viz. when a large artery is partially divided, the bleeding is more profuse and dangerous, than when the vessel is completely severed, and the hemorrhage, if not repressed, by a tourniquet, or other means, will often continue until the pa- tient dies. Thus, Mr. Guthrie speaks of three cases, in which life was lost from wounds of the- femoral, humeral, and carotid arteries, no effec- tual means of stopping the hemorrhage having been adopted. (/'. ft.) Until Ambroise Pare introduced more correct theories upon the subject of gun-shot wounds, ideas, the most false, and errors, highly preju- dicial, prevailed both in their history and treat- ment, and particularly respecting what have been fasely named, wind contusions. Cannon-balls and bullets sometimes produce dreadful degrees of injury, without occasioning any breach of continuity in the integuments. This observation is so strictly true, that the muscles and bones may actually be crushed and broken to atoms, without the skin being at all wounded. Such cases were for a long while imputed to the violent motion, supposed to be communicated to the air by the ball itself. It was imagined, that this elastic fluid, being rapidly displaced by the shock of the projectile, was capable of making such pressure on surrounding bodies, as to destroy their texture. But how could this violent pres- sure originate in the midst of the open and un- bounded air? If this theory were true, the effect in question would constantly happen, whenever a ball passes near any part of the body. The contrary, however, is so much the case, that pieces of soldier’s and seamen’s hats, of their feathers, clothes, and even hair, are shot away in every battle, without any other mischief being done. In consequence of the manner, in which such injuries of the soft parts and even of the bones, unattended with any breach in the skin, have been supposed to be produced, they have been erroneously termed wind-contusions. In fact, these cases are now universally acknowledged by all the most accurate observers never to pro- ceed from the cause, to which formerly they were always ascribed. The air does not move with the same-rapidity as the ball; but its motion is less in proportion as it is a more subtile matter, and must be too feeble to account for such a violent degree of injury. ' The air, to which the bail must really communicate the greatest motion, is what is di- rectly before it; and this never bruises the part untouched by the ball itself. It is only the air situated laterally to the shot, that is imagined to do injury, arid it cannot-be greatly agitated. I he violent consequences of sudden explosions, and the eflects produced on the organ of hearing, by strong commotions of the air, prove nothing relative to the point in question. \Lastly, ex- perience does not confirm the reality of such wind-contusions; for, cannon-balls often tear oil whole members, without the adjacent parts being in the least injured. (See Le Vncher, in Memoires de dA$ud. de Chir. T. 4, p. 22.) An eminent professor, who visited the conti- nent for the purpose of seeing the wounded after the battle of Waterloo, fully coincides with M, le Vacher. and all the moderns upon this subject. “ We saw, and were informed of, many instances, in which cannon-balls had passed quite close to all the parts of the body, and had removed por- tions of the clothes and accoutrements, without producing the slightest injury of any kind. In other instances, portions of the body itself were removed by cannon-balls, without the contiguous