OPHTHALMY. 11 •l l n I V moderate antiphlogistic treatment, in which, leed, since the eyeball itself is affected, par- ular attention must be paid to lessening the tion of the light and air upon the organ. Put, ,en a true cheinosis is present, every antiphlo- .tic means must be promptly and rigorously t in practice, internal as well as external re- plies being employed, and, besides common ;asures, the conjunctiva, round the cornea, is be scarified; a proceeding never necessary in ; case of taraxis. Such scarifications, Beer serves, have a wonderful effect, when prac- ed at the proper period, after venesection and oical bleeding with leeches have been fully put execution, and when the cuts are made deep, as to produce immediately a copious discharge blood. “ By means of such scarifications (says ) I have seen the inflammation and all its j j -eatening effects recede, as it were, before my : :e, when no material relief could be effected by ler measures.” (Ji. l,j>. 419.) According to the late Mr. Ware, there cannot in chemosis, an easier, or a more effectual medy than aether. A few drops are to be ured into the palm of the hand, and diffused er it, which may be immediately done by press- g the other hand against it. The hand is then be applied to the eye, and kept so close to it, at the spirit as it evaporates, may insinuate elf into the part affected, and act on the ex- s. lvasated blood, so as to disperse it. In a few stances of chemosis, in which the swelling and dammation have been considerable, thisgentle- m found the following application of singular ■ rvice : . Interiorum foliorum recentium . ictucoe Sissilis ^iij. Coque cum aq. pur. tjss. balnco mariai pro semihora; tunc exprimatur ecus, et applicetur paululum ad oculos et ad .Ipebras srepe in die. {Ware, p. 54.) As ese applications are not noticed by the gene- lity of modern writers, I infer, that the supe- or efficacy imputed to them by the late Mr. 7are, is not such as to obtain the confidence of l other ophthalmic practitioners. General and local bleeding, and, if chemosis ; present, scarifications having been put in ractice, the treatment is to be continued by lministering purgatives of the mildest descrip- on, and, after their operation, applying blisters, .•cording to the directions given in a preceding irt of this article. In the first stage of severe :ute ophthalmy, Scarpa considers topical emol- ent applications to the eye most beneficial, such i mallows boiled in new milk; bread and milk oultices; or the soft pulp of a baked apple ; all '■eluded in fine little muslin bags. Remedies of ■is description should be renewed at least every vo hours. The patient should be directed to bserve perfect quietude, and to lie with his head 1 an elevated position. To keep the eyelids "om adhering together, in the night-time, the pennaceti cerate is proper. When ophthalmy ’ accompanied with a violent pain in the head, he late Mr. Ware recommended a strong de- Joction of poppy-heads to be applied as a fomen- ation. {P. 51.) Uuder the preceding plan of treatment, the irsl stage of severe ophthalmy commonly abates 11 ,out :i Wt‘tk. The burning heat and darting 1,11118 1,1 l*,e eyes, and the febrile disturbance of ie constitution subside. The patient is com- || paratively easy, and regains his appetii eyes become moist again, and can j opened, without experiencing vast irritatiV a moderate light. In this state, notwithl they may continue red, and the coni • swelled, all evacuations arc to be left ofli'Tre'welF as the use of topical emollients, for which latter astringent, corroborant collyria are to be sub- stituted. Scarpa recommends the following ap- plication : 1^/. Zinei sulphatis gr. vj. Aquse distillataa Jvj. Mucil. sem. cydon. mali j|j. Spiritus vini camphor guttas paucas. Misce et cola. This collyrium may be injected with a syringe, between the eye and eyelids, once every two hours; or the eye may be bathed in it, by means of an eye-cup. Such persons as cannot bear cold applications to the eye, must have the same kind of collyrium a little warmed; but as soon as the irritability is lessened, it maybe used cold. Scarpa then speaks of the good effects, pro- duced in the second stage of ophthalmy by the application to the eye of two or three drops of the vinous tincture of opium, once or twice a day ; a subject already considered in the fore- going columns. The utility of letting the eye be habituated to the light, as soon as it can bear it, is next strongly commended; a rule of great importance, but, on which I need not here dwell, because it has been already insisted upon in the general observations. When idiopathic external ophthalmy has ter- minated in suppurations of little extent, Beer speaks highly of the benefit derived from a solu- tion of the lapis divinus, (see Lachrymal Or- gans,) containing the liquor plumbi subacetatis, or from smearing the suppurating points with a little laudanum. In worse cases, Beer states, that, when such local treatment is combined with the internal exhibition of bark and naphtha, and a diet and regimen, conducive to the support of the system, its efficacy is very great. And here, says he, it is worth observing, that while the solution of the lapis divinus is of great service in the second stage of true chemosis, it is more or less detrimental in the kind of chemosis, which accompanies purulent ophthalmy, especially if not blended with mucilage, and, even when thus qualified, it cannot be endured by weak and ir- ritable subjects, affected with the latter com- plaint; a fact, not observed in other instances of chemosis. {li 1, p. 420.) To Mr. Ware’s use of mther in chemosis, I have already ad- verted. When pustules, or abscesses in the swelled conjunctiva point round the cornea, a free outlet to the matter must be immediately made in each of them with a lancet; for, if this be not done, as Beer observes, the matter will spread ex- tensively, and the eyeball be in danger of being destroyed. For an account of the method of treating the eversion of the lower eyelid, some- times remaining as a consequence of the dis- order, see Ectropium. Inflammation of the Sclerotica. Sclerotitis, —The modern attempts to class ophthalmies, ac- cording to the texture of the eye first or chiefly affected, promises, 1 think, to lead to clearer . views of the subject, and sounder practice. One circumstance, particularly adverted to, both by Dr. Vetch and Mr. Travers, in inflammation of