60 AMPUTATION. it was possible for them to interfere. In these dismal clays for surgery, the advice delivered by Celsus was renewed by Theodoricus, who used to administer opium and hemlock pre- viously to the operation, for the purpose of rendering the patient less sensible of pain, and afterwards vinegar and fennel were given, with the view of dispersing the intoxicating effects of the preceding medicines. (Chirurg. lib. 3, c. 10.) The renowned Guido di Cauliaco was the in- ventor of the plan of taking off limbs, without any bloodshed. It is better, says he, for the limb to drop off, than be cut off, as in the latter circumstance, the conduct of the surgeon is viewed with spite, because it is supposed, that the part might have been saved. Guido’s practice consisted in covering the whole membrane with pitch-plaster, and applying round one of the joints so tight a band, that the parts below the constriction ultimately dropped off. (Chirurg. if. 6. Doctr. 1. Cap. 8.) As Sprengel next observes, the method of amputating, suggested by Celsus, was again revived by Gersdorf, who after the operation, not only drew down over the stump the skin which had been retracted, but applied a hog’s or bullock’s bladder over the stump, so as to render all burning and stitching of the parts needless. (Feldbuck der Wundarzn. fol. 63.) Bartholomew Maggi also endeavoured to preserve a considerable flap of integuments for covering the stump. (Be Vainer. bombard, et sclopet. 4to. Bonon. 1552; see Sprengel’s Ges- chichte der Cliirurgie, p. 404, 406, fhvo. Halle, 1805.) At length, in the 15th century, the revival of learning occurred first in Italy. Men now began to think for themselves again, and phy- sicians turned from compilations and scholastic nonsense, to the consideration of nature. Ana- tomy was cultivated with great ardour, and made brilliant progress under the eminent characters of the time: De la Torre, Berengarius Carpi, Vesalius, Fallopius, Eustachius, and others, who were also for the most part very distinguished surgeons. u In Italia scienliarum matre medici se vunquam chirurgia abdicuruvt. Seen la 15 et 16, professores mcdici academice Bonouiemu, Paiavitia’, et aliarvm in Italia illustrium schularum et maun curaverunt, et cnnsilio, ct inter istos viros sum mi chirurgi eistitenint.’’ (Haller, Bibl. Chir. p. 1. p. 161.) Practitioners now ventured to am- putate limbs in the sound part for other incurable diseases, besides mortification; but, the art of stop- ping hemorrhage after the operation continued imperfect. Though the method of applying the ligature in cases of wounded arteries and aneu- risms was understood, yet, from some unaccounta- ble causes, the practice was never thought of in amputations. Even Fallopius knew of no other means for stopping the bleeding, but the cau- tery. (Be Tuiv. preriern. p. 665.) On the whole, the stoppage of bleeding was not attended with a degree of success proportionate to the advances of the healing art in general. Straps, bands, and compresses were indeed put round the member; but, as the circulation of the blood was not yet correctly known, they were not ap- plied in the proper places; being arranged either close to the wound, or several of them put at random round the limb. The effects of such im- moderately tight, long continued constriction could be nothing less than gangrene, and hence, the actual cautery was still chiefly employed. The other means for suppressing hemorrhage scarcely merit the name. Terrified at the inse- curity and ill consequences of such expedients, J. de Vigo, (Practice in Chirurgia Coni',bu, 491, Romce, 1514,) and Fabrieius ab Aquapendente, (Op. Chir. Veiiet. 1619,) disapproved of ampu- tating in the sound flesh, and returned to the principle, inculcated by the ancients, of making the incision in the mortified parts. Others en- deavoured to lessen the peril of the bleeding by the rapidity, with which the limb was removed, and the instantaneous application of the cautery. For this purpose, L. iiotalli invented a sort of guillotine, by means of which a member was severed from the body in an instant, (Be Cunm- dis vnlneriLus srlupelorum, Lngd. 1560;) while others laid a sharp axe upon the limb, and effected the dismemberment by the blow of a wooden mallet. An example of this barbarous practice is recorded by Fabrieius Hildarius, called by his countrymen the patriarch and orna- ment of the German surgery. In consequence of this fear of bleeding, before he knew of the use of the ligature, he was himself accustomed to amputate with a red-hot knife, the representation of which is given in his work. (Be Ganurana et Sphacelo, Op.) Hildanus became a better surgeon, however, as he grew older, and, in the end, partly contributed to the improvement of amputation, in a's much as he made the incisions completely in the sound parts, and adopted the method of tying the arteries, as then recently proposed by Pare, but unfortunately, in weak persons he still preferred the actual cautery to the ligature. (Op. p. 814.) One of his inven- tions was a linen bag, or cap for the stump; and a sort of retractor for holding back the mus- cles. According to Sprengel, (Geschichic der Clnr. B. \ ,p.407.) his observations on the pain following the operation, are interesting. (Op. p. 807, 814.) Ambrose Pare, a French surgeon, who flou- rished in the 16th century, (Opi m, Pariiiu 1582), and to whom I have already alluded, made some beneficial innovations, with regard to the opera- tion of amputation. It is to his industry, good sense and skill, that we are chiefly indebted for the abolition of cauterising instruments, and the general use of a needle and ligature for the sup- pression of the bleeding. (Lib. 6. c. 28, p. 224.) An anonymous writer has given the following account of the practice and opinions of this dis- tinguished surgeon, in relation to amputation. “ Pare recommended to cut oft’the whole of the gangrenous part, if the limb be mortified; but, to encroach as little as possible upon the living flesh. At the same time, he laid it down as a rule, not to leave a very long stump to an am- putated leg; because the patient could more conveniently make use of a wooden leg, with the stump only five finger-breadths long, below the knee, than if much more of the flesh were to be preserved. In the arm, however, he left the whole of the living and healthy portion of the member, only separating the diseased part from the sound. “ In preparing for amputation, he directs the