1183 WOUNDS. most, if the part requires close confinement; t when it does not, they may he at greater di- mces. This precaution becomes more necessary the bleeding is not quite stopped ; there should passages left for the exit of blood, as its accu- tlation might prevent the union, although this es not always happen. If any extraneous body, ch as a ligature, should have been left in the >und, suppuration will take place, and the mat- rr should be allowed to vent at some of those •enings, or spaces, between the slips of plaster. iave known a very considerable abscess formed consequence of this precaution being neglected, which the whole of the recently united parts • s been separated. •“ The inteiTupted suture, which has generally en recommended in large wounds, is still in ce, but seldom proves equal to the intention, lis we may reckon to be the only one that serves the name of suture; it was formerly ced, .but is now in a great measure laid aside in ictice, not from the impropriety of uniting parts this process, but from the ineffectual mode of empting it. In what manner better methods L.uld be contrived, I have not been able to sug- $st. It is to be understood, that the above ■thods of bringing wounded parts together, in ::ler to unite them, are only to be put in prac- e in such cases as will admit of it; for if there s a method known, which in all cases would ng the wounded surfaces into contact, it would, l(H many instances, be improper, as some wounds : attended with contusion, by which the parts ve been more or less deadened; in such cases, as ! s formerly observed, union cannot take place e :ording to our first principle, and therefore it i improper to attempt it. “ In many wounds, which are not attended th contusion, when we either know, or suspect, it extraneous bodies have been introduced in- the wound, union by the first intention should ' t be attempted, but they should be allowed suppurate, in order that the extraneous mat- i • may be expelled. Wounds, which are at- . ided with laceration, although free from con- sion, cannot always be united by the first in- . ition, because it must frequently be impossible bring the external parts, or skin, so much in ntact, as to prevent that inflammation which is turally produced by exposure. But even in vses of simple laceration, where the external in- cnee is but slight, or can be prevented (as we served in treating of the compound fracture) : find that union by the first intention often res place; the blood, which fills up the inter- ces of the lacerated parts, having prevented 3 stimulus of imperfection in them, and pre- rnted suppuration, may afterwards be absorbed. ■ “ Many operations may be so performed as to mit of parts uniting by the first intention ; but 3 practice should be adopted with great cir- rnspection : the mode of operating with that :w, should in all cases be a secondary, and not a st consideration, which it has unluckily been o often among surgeons. In cases of cancer, is a most dangerous attempt at refinement in rgery. “ In the union of wounded parts by the first :ention, it is hardly or never possible, to bring m so close together at the exposed edges, as unite them perfectly by these means; such edges arc therefore obliged to take another me- thod of healing. If kept moist, they will in- flame as deep between the cut surfaces as the blood fails in the union, and there suppurate and granulate; but if the blood be allowed to dry and form a scab between, and along the cut edges, then inflammation, and suppuration of those edges will be prevented, and this will com- plete the union, as will be described by-and-by. “ As those effects of accidental injury, which can be cured by the first intention, call up none of the powers of the constitution to assist in the reparation, it is not the least affected or disturbed by them ; the parts are united by the extravasated blcod alone, which was thrown out by the injury, either from the divided vessels, or in consequence of inflammation, without a single action taking place, even in the part itself, except the closing or inosculation of the vessels; for the flowing of the blood is to be considered as entirely me- chanical. Even in cases where a small degree of inflammation comes on, it is merely a local action, and so inconsiderable, that the constitution is not affected by it; because it is an operation, to which the powers belonging to the parts them- selves are fully equal. The inflammation may produce a small degree of pain, but the operation of union gives no sensation of any kind what- ever.’’ (Hunter on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gun-shot Wounds.) Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—Lace- rated wounds are those, in which the fibres, in- stead of being divided by a cutting instrument, have been torn asunder by some violence, capable of overcoming their force of adhesion. The edges of such wounds, instead of being straight and regular, are jagged and unequal. The term contused is applied to those wounds, which are occasioned by some blunt instrument, or surface, which has violently struck a part of the body. These two species of wounds greatly resemble eacB other, and as they require nearly the same kind of treatment, writers usually treat of them together. Lacerated, and contused, wounds differ from simple incised ones in appearing, at first view, much less alarming, than the latter, while, in reality, they are infinitely more dangerous. In simple cut wounds, the retraction of the parts, and the hemorrhage, are generally much more considerable, than in a lacerated wound of the same size. However, notwithstanding these circumstances, they commonly admit of being healed with far greater case. It is worthy of particular notice, that lacerated and contused wounds are not in general attended with any serious effusion of blood, even though large blood-vessels may be injured. I say, in general, because in the year 1813, I saw a soldier, whose death was occasioned by a sudden effusion of a very large quantity of blood from the internal jugular vein, which vessel had been injured by a musket-ball, that first entered the integuments behind the mastoid process, and passed obliquely downwards and forwards towards the sternum. The blood did not issue externally ; but, formed betwixt the integuments and the trnchea, a large dark-coloured swelling, which produced almost immediate suffocation. At the memorable siege of Saragossa, Professor Assalini saw a surgeon.