149 ANEURISM. coming from within the pelvis, proved capable of limiting the progress of the mortification of the parts round the aneurism, and of commencing the healing process, in a manner, which raised great hopes of a cure. A similar fact is also recorded by Dr. Clarke. ( Duncan's Med. Com- ment. im. s.) These, and other cases, which might be quoted, furnished ample proof of the efficiency of the anastomosing vessels in the support of the limb, though the femoral artery had been tied, or ob- literated in a very high situation. Besides these facts, surgeons derived every encouragement to attempt the cure of popliteal aneurism, by the ligature of the artery above the tumor, from the elucidations given by Winslow and Haller concerning the numberless inoscula- tions, which exist between the upper and lower articular arteries. Haller even drew the con- clusion, that, if the course of the blood were intercepted in the popliteal artery, between the origins of the two orders of articular brandies, such anastomoses would suffice for carrying on the circulation in the leg. And at length, Heister, weighing the anatomical observations of Winslow and Haller, and the facts recorded by Severinus and Saviard, first proposed applying to popliteal aneurisms, an operation, which, with the exception of those two cases, had until that time been restricted chiefly to aneurisms of the brachialartery. (Dis. degenmimStrvctvraarr uni- que niorhis. Disp. Chir. Hulleri, T. 4.) It was in Italy that the earliest operations were undertaken for the cure of popliteal aneu- risms, by Guattani, or rather by a German sur- geon, named Kevsler, as would appear from a letter written by Testa, to Cotunni. (See Pel- lettni s Clinique Clur. T. 1.) The success, ob- tained by those surgeons, sonn emboldened others to imitate them, and by degrees the practice of tying the femoral artery became common both in cases of aneurism and wounds ; and from the observations of Heister, (Haller Disp. Chir. i.5.') Acrell, (Murray dcAneurysm. Demon's,') Leslie, (Edinb. Med. Comment.) Hamilton, (B. Bell's Surgery, V. 1,) Burschall, (Med. Ohs. mul Int]. Vol. 3,) Leber, (Djhaen, Ratio Me- dendi, 1. 7,) and Jussy, (Ancien Jonrn. tie Med. T. 42,) it was proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, that the circulation might continue in the limb, after the obliteration of the femoral artery, whether such obliteration were effected by direct pressure, or the ligature. The exact period when the first operation of lay- ing open the tumor and tying the popliteal artery, was performed in England, is not, as far as I know, particularly specified. However, judging from the observations made on this practice in the writings of Pott, (Remarks on Palsy, dfc. 8eo. liond. 17,9,) of WiImcr (Cases anti Remarks in Snrgcri/, 8vo. l.ovd. 1779,) of Kirkland (Thoughts on Amputation, 8vr. Loud. 1780,) and of others, it is clear, that this method of treatment had been often done in this country earlier, than the dates of those works, and as would appear with little, or no success. The earliest attempt of tins kind in France was made by Chopart in 1,81, (Ilnur, Nuuvcaux Kidmens tic Med. Opera- tni’c, /', p, 550',) about five and twenty years after the examples set by Guattani in Italy'; but, Chopart failed in his endeavours to repress the bleeding from the exposed cavity of the tumor, and was therefore obliged to ampu- tate the limb. Subsequently to this attempt, the operation was undertaken by Pelletan in two instances, the terminations of which were successful: consequently, this surgeon mav be regarded as entitled to the honour of having proved to his countrymen the possibility of curing the popliteal aneurism by laying open the tumor, and securing the artery in the ham. The severity and frequent ill success of this method of operating I have already noticed, nor shall I repeat the objections to it. With respect to the Hunterian practice, the great peculiarities of which were tying the artery at some distance above the disease, and not opening the swelling at all, Richerand seems offended, that Hunter’s name should be affixed to an operation, which he conceives was in reality the invention of Guillemeau. Here we observe, iEtius again puts in a prior claim, and with much more effect, because the method, of which he speaks, truly resembled Mr. Hunter’s, inasmuch as the vessel is 'directed to be tied at some distance above the swelling, while Guillemeau only tied the artery close above the disease, and opened the seedling, a serious deviation from the Hunterian practice. Guillemeau, a contemporary, and disciple of Ambrose Pare, having to treat an aneurism, at the bend of the arm, the consequence of bleed- ing, exposed the artery above the tumor, tied this vessel, then opened the sac, took out the coagulated blood, and dressed the wound, which healed by suppuration. After more than a century, Anel, on being consulted about a si- milar ease, tied the artery above the swelling, which was left to itself. The pulsations ceased, the tumor became smaller, and hard, and after some months, no traces of the disease were perceptible. In 1785, Desault operated in the same man- ner for a popliteal aneurism: the swelling di- minished by one half, and the throbbings ceased ; on the 20th day, it burst, coagulated blood and pus were discharged in large quantities, and the wound, after continuing a long time fistulous, at length healed. Towards the end of the same year, says Richerand, Hunter applied the li- gature somewhat differently; instead of placing it close to the swelling or directly above it, lie put it on the inferior part of the femoral artery. (See Nnsogr. Cliir. T. 4, />. 98, 99, edit. 2.) Unquestionably, Anel did, in one solitary in- stance, tie the humeral artery immediately above an aneurism at the bend of the arm, and effected a cure without opening the swelling, (Suite de la Nouvellc Mdlhode tic gudvir Irsfislnles Inchry- inalts, p. 251, Turin 1714;) but he did not think of applying the plan to the femoral artery, or draw the attention of the French surgeons sufficiently to the matter, to make the latter imitate his operation: on the contrary, the method fell into oblivion, and was never repeated. W ith regard to Desault’s operation, said to have been done in an earlier part of 1785, than Mr. Iluntei s first operation, it is only necessary to say. that Desault tied the popliteal artery itselt, win < 1 " grand object in Mr. Hunter’s method ",u. to lake up the femoral artery, at a distance from