LACHRYMAL ORGANS. 750 closing the orifice; for which purpose, the end of the tent may he moistened with diluted vitriolic acid, or a piece of lunar caustic, so included in a quill, as to leave little more than the extremity naked, may at each dressing, or every other, or every third day, be introduced; by which the granulations will be repressed, and the opening maintained; and when this has been done for some little time, a piece of bougie of proper size, or a leaden cannula, may be introduced instead of the tent; and leaving off all other dressings, tlie sore may be suffered to contract as much as the bougie will permit; which should be of such length, that one extremity of it may lie level with the skin in the corner of the eye, and the other be within the nose. The longer time the patient can be prevailed upon to wear the bougie, the more likely will be the continuance of the opening; and, when it is withdrawn, the external orifice should be covered only by a superficial pledget, or plas- ter, and suffered to heal under moderate presr sure, (jPott.) After the perforating instrument was with- drawn, Mr. Ware recommended a nail-headed style, about an inch long, to be introduced through the aperture, in the same way in which it is intro- duced through the nasal duct, in cases, in which the obstruction is not so great as to prevent its passing in this direction; and it may remain here with as much safety, as in this last-men- tioned instance, for as long a time as its con- tinuance may be thought necessary to establish the freedom of the communication. Unfortunately for the scheme of making an artificial passage, nature was generally so busy, that she completely frustrated the aim of the surgeon by gradually filling up the new aper- ture again. Hence, some practitioners were not content with drilling a hole through the os un- guis, but actually removed a portion of this bone either with the forceps proposed by Lamorier in 172.9, ‘(see Mem. dc P Acad. des Sciences,) or with cutting instruments, amongst which the most celebrated is the sharp-edged kind of can- nula devised by Hunter. While this was being applied, however, it was necessary to support the os unguis with something passed up the nose, and a piece of horn was found to answer very well. Instead of these methods, Scarpa prefers destroying a portion of the os unguis with the actual cautery passed through a cannula; a prac- tice, long ago banished from good surgery, and most justly condemned by Richter. I do not feel it necessary to enter very parti- cularly into the details of these methods of form- ing an artificial passage between the lachrymal sac ami nostril. I have never seen a case, in which I should have deemed such practice advisable, and that the necessity for it must be rare must be inferred from what Mr. Travers has observed, viz. that he does not believe the perforation of the os unguis ever really required. (Synopsis, $c. ]>. 379.) Reer’s remarks are also decidedly against the practice j for, he states, that, in order that the new opening may not be closed with lymph, it must be made too high up to serve the purpose of a drain, through which the mucus can descend by its own gravity. He has not met with a single case, either in his own prac- tice, or amongst the patients whom he has had opportunities of seeing under other practitioners, where the perforation of the os unguis had a sucr cessful result. On the contrary, in one healthy lad, the operation, which had been done by an ex- perienced surgeon, was followed by the destruc- tion of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, one of the ossa nasi, and all the bones con- tributing to the formation of the passage from the orbit into the nose. (See Lchrc non den Augcnkr. B. 'll, p. 18*2.) Hence, Beer thinks, that the patient had better either submit to the inconvenience of being obliged to empty the dis- tended sac by pressure several times a day, or let the cavity of the sac be obliterated by means, calculated to excite the adhesiye inflammation in it. But, if the lachrymal puncta and ducts, as well as the nasal duct, are obliterated, Beer con- ceives, that there is no alternative, because, if the cavity of the sac be left, the case, which he terms hydrops sacculi lachrymalis will ensue, whenever the fistula is closed. Of Hernia and Hydrops of the Lachrymal Sac.—The diseases, described by Beer under these appellations, are not discriminated in this country, although they are characterized by widely different symptoms, and require opposite methods of treatment. In the case of hernia, or simple relaxation, the lachrymal sac forms a tumor, which never surpasses the size of a com- mon horse-bean, the integuments are of their natural colour, the tumor is soft and yielding to pressure, by which the contents of the sac are readily discharged through the puncta, or nasal duct. Hydrops grows to the size of a pigeon’s egg, is purplish from the beginning, very hard, and incapable of being emptied by the strongest pressure. Hernia is cured by compression, and the application of astringents to the relaxed parts; hydrops requires the incision of the sac. In hernia, the nasal duct is natural; in hydrops, it and sometimes the puncta are obstructed. Stillicidium Lachrymarum.—According to Beer, the valuable treatise of Schmidt is the only work, in which the important practical distinc- tion is drawn between stillicidium lachrymarum and epiphora; the immediate cause of the first complaint being some impediment to the passage of the tears from the lacus lachrymarum into the lachrymal sac; while the other affection consists in a redundant and extraordinary secretion of the tears. The curable form of stillicidium, here to be noticed, arises from relaxation of the la- chrymal puncta and canals, in consequence of previous inflammation of the parts. The puncta are widely open; but, in other respects, have quite a natural appearance. When touched with Anel’s probe, they do not contract, as in the healthy state. The tears, which from time to time fall over the cheek, are not in considerable quantity, only trickling from the inner canthus by drops at intervals; and the nostril on the af- fected side is found to be rather drier, than natural. Erysipelatous inflammation of the eyelids and parts over the lachrymal sac, and the purulent kinds of ophthalmy, frequently cause this sort of stillicidium. The latter cases indeed the more readily produce the disorder, inasmuch as the semilunar fold of the conjunctiva is relaxed and swelled, so us to push the puncta out ol their right position for the due performance of the ab-