989 SUP SUP This acid, in the diluted form, has been tried u venereal cases. According to JVIr. Pearson, lieu a bad state of health prohibits the intro- uction of mercury, the case has not yet put on n unequivocal appearance, or dyspeptic sym- ptoms, attended with profuse perspirations, harass he patient, it is an useful remedy, capable of iving a temporary check to the progress ol the iscase. He says, that lie has often seen it ■rrest the progress of venereal ulcers ot the onsils, and make venereal eruptions fade and early disappear; but that these beneficial effects ;ere never permanent. At the same time, he Acknowledges that the medicine will confer actual nd durable benefit in ulcers of the penis, groin, nd throat, sometimes remaining stationary after mercurial course. He has likewise found this cid very efficient, when mercury acts too vio- ently upon the mouth. (See Pearson’s Obs. n the Effects of various Articles in the Cure f Lucs Venerea, p. 189—191, Ed. 2.) In cases of poison, by sulphuric acid, the most uccessful treatment consists in making ,the pa- ient drink large quantities of water, in which •alcined magnesia is suspended. Should this ast medicine, however, not be at hand, soap, dended with water, is the best substitute. While hese remedies are preparing, copious draughts if some mucilaginous beverage, milk, or even of •ommon water, should be administered without delay; for the practitioner should ever be mind- ul, that so rapidly does sulphuric acid operate ipon the texture of the parts with which it comes nto contact, that all chance of saving the pa- ient must depend upon the quickness with which iie means to counteract the poison are applied. Yfter the acid has been diluted and neutralized, - ocal and general bleeding, emollient clysters uul mucilaginous drinks, constitute the best re- nedies. (Orfil-a, Traite. dcs Poisons, <§c. Vol. :. p. 434, Ed. 2.) SUPPRESSION OF URINE. See Urine, Retention of. SUPPURATION. A process, by which a peculiar fluid, termed pus, is formed in the sub- itance, or from the surface, of parts of the body. From the observations made in the article in- lamnwtion, it appears, that, when this last aflfec- ion is above a certain pitch, it sometimes tc-r- ninates in suppuration. When purulent matter accumulates in the part iflected, it is termed an abscess, which is distin- guished into several kinds, the acute, chronic, 'Cnereal, scrophulous, &c. It is observed by Professor Thomson, that the exture, in which suppuration seems to be most •eadily produced, by a certain degree of inllam- nation, is mucous membrane, whether this lines •xcretory ducts, or canals, or covers the inner •urfaces of the respiratory, or urinary organs. In a few hours, after an irritating cause has been ipplied to these surfaces, the physical and che- nical qualities of the fluid, which they secrete n their natural state, arc changed. From being 1tough viscid substance, not easily miscible with •vatcr, the mucus of the nose and bronchia be- :omes, during an attack of inflammation, very eadily miscible with water, of a yellowish white olour, and fluid consistence. If, in this state, he secretion from these membranes be examined vith the microscope, it will be found to contain small globules, similar to those which are seen in the blood; and these globules are found to increase in number in proportion to the degree and continuance of the inflammation. We have examples of the production of this pus, or at least of a puriform fluid, in the respiratory organs of persons affected with catarrh, and in the uri- nary organs of those who labour under gonor- rhoea. In the progress of these diseases, we can generally trace the changes, which take place by slow, but sensible degrees, in the nature of the secretion, from mucus to pus, and from pus back again to the state of mucus. This puriform discharge from mucous membranes, in a state of inflammation, may be kept up for months without these membranes appearing to undergo any other morbid changes than a slight degree of redness and swelling. A loss of substance, or ulceration, is found not to happen oftener than in one case out of ten examples of suppuration from mucous membranes. {Thomson's Lectures on Inflam- mation, p. 305, 306.) The same well-informed writer aftenvards pro- ceeds to explain, that suppuration maybe readily produced in the skin, or cutaneous texture, by whatever excites inflammation in that texture, and causes a separation of the cuticle. We have ex- amples of this fact in blisters from cantharides, and in vesications of the cuticle from superficial burns. If the cuticle, covering a recent blister, or burn, be removed, and the cutis exposed to tire irritation of stimulating substances, pus will soon be discharged from the abraded surface. Suppuration can be kept up in cutaneous texture, for an indefinite length of time, as we see done every day in the management of perpetual blis- ters. Ulceration is seldom observed in these cases, and, consequently, in cutaneous texture, loss of substance is by no means necessary for the production of pus. If the cutis be divided, as in a wound, or a portion of it removed, as in the extirpation of tumors, and either the air, or any other external body, be permitted to remain in contact with the divided surfaces, the process of suppuration is speedily induced in the cellular texture subjacent to the skin. After the hemorrhage, which takes place from the small vessels, has ceased, an oozing of a fluid, at first resembling serum, oc- curs, which is gradually changed into pus. Hut in this case, as Dr. Thomson has correctly ob- served, the surface of the wound is previously covered with a layer of coagulable lymph, which is penetrated with blood vessels, and gradually raised into the little red eminences, termed granulations. Appearances similar, though slighter in de- gree, says Dr. Thomson, are observed in cu- taneous suppuration, giving probability to the opinion of Sir E. Home, that in inflammation, a vascular surface is produced previously to the formation of pus in a cellular membrane, and per- haps also in cutaneous texture. Dr. Thomson is inclined to believe, however, that no new vascu- lar surface is generated in the inflammation of mucous membrane. Thus, we see, that in the formation of pus in mucous membrane, cutaneous texture, and exposed cellular substance, no ul- ceration, no breach of substance occurs: but that, on the contrary, in two of these textures, the cutaneous and cellular, there is an addition made