(ESOPII 1 passed down the oesophagus. In other cases, | e patients live a considerable time, and after- irds perfectly recover, and this sometimes, ider the disadvantage of having been entirely pported for several weeks with broth-clysters, we find exemplified in a case recorded by I amazzini. Certain examples are also reported, which the patients had their food forced into | _• stomach by means of probangs, for years, d either ultimately recovered their power of allowing, or in this manner prolonged their j ys, without any cure taking place. (Stalpart '• n der Wiel, Vol. 2, Obs. 28 ; Willis, Pharm. at. Sect. 2, cap. 1, p. 45.) | Paralysis of the oesophagus is to be treated on I e same principles, as other paralytic affections; I subject, which I shall not be expected to dis- I' ss; but, it is of importance that practitioners re- I llect, in these casts, the very essential service, I rived from the use of elastic gum-catheters, j : th which the requisite food and medicines may j injected into the stomach. Dysphagia from organic disease, or morbid r lange of structure, is the most frequent case, ] id generally the most difficult of cure. In dis- ctions, the parietes of the oesophagus are often und considerably thickened, indurated, and ■irrhous, or sometimes almost cartilaginous, and ^en ossified. The parts, where the pharynx j rminates in the oesophagus, and where the latter be joins the stomach, are occasionally con | -rteil into thick scirrhous rings, with or without | ceration, exactly in the same manner as the lorus. But, such diseases are not restricted to j l ose parts of the oesophagus, but sometimes . xupy other points of the passage. However, I t e organic disease, producing a difficulty, or j lpossibility, of deglutition, is not always situated the coats of the oesophagus itself;. for, the • irts, surrounding this canal, are subject to va- ous diseases, which may have the same effect, hus, dysphagia may depend upon enlargement i the thyroid gland; tumors formed between le trachea and oesophagus, or at some other lint near the latter tube; swelling and indura- : on of the thymus gland; aneurism of the irta; enormous enlargement of the liver; and seased lymphatic glands in the vicinity of that i ortion of the oesophagus, which is covered by le peritoneum, and the largest of which glands *e situated near the fifth dorsal vertebra, just at j le point where the oesophagus inclines a little > the right side to make way for the aorta. | Dyer, T. 7, p. 162.) r Dus last author sets down every case of dys- [.nagia, depending upon organic disease of the ■sophagus, as incurable; and with respect to >e cure of other examples, in which that tube is impressed by swellings in its vicinity, as these :e almost always beyond the power of medicine ad surgery, the prognosis is nearly as unfavour- ale, as where there is a change of structure in ie oesophagus itself. There are no unequivocal vmptoms, by which a case of dysphagia from •ilargement of glands in the vicinity of the ceso- hagus can be known from several other forms f the complaint. Hence, it is difficult to esti- >ate the correctness of certain cases, recorded y Huysch (Advent. /hint. Med. Chir. Dec. 1, 'l- 10, p. 24.) and Haller (Opuscul. Pathol. clGUS. 863 Obs. 78.), where dysphagia stated to have been produced by enlarged lymphatic glands was cured by mercurial frictions, or pills composed of calomel, aloes, and camphor. As Boyer justly remarks, these accounts of the nature of the dis- eases, thus cured, are the more doubtful, inasmuch as the resolution of chronic swellings of lymphatic glands, even when externally situated, is very difficult, and frequently impracticable, notwith- standing the use of topical applications may here be combined with the exhibition of internal me- dicines. {T.7,p. lGft.) However, dismissing the question, whether the cases really arose from the pressure of enlarged lymphatic glands, or not, the facts of the cures having taken place, under the use of mercurial medicines, are of themselves interesting. Several writers con- sider, that there is a great analogy between cer- tain forms of constriction of the oesophagus, and strictures of the urethra, and Mauchart recom- mended the two diseases to be treated, on the same principles, with bougies, and elastic gum catheters. Baron Boyer, however, represents this doctrine as completely erroneous, declaring that the affection of the oesophagus is of the nature of scirrhus, and absolutely incurable. He relates one case, in which a woman’s life was prolonged by the use of an elastic gum- catheter, though it proved of no service as a means of permanently dilating the diseased part; and, notwithstanding nourishing liquids were plentifully injected into the stomach, the patient suffered a good deal from hunger, and died ex- hausted about three years after the beginning of the disorder. This case, however, cannot be re- ceived, as a proof of the inefficacy of bougies for what is commonly implied by a stricture of the oesophagus, because the nature of the dis- ease was not ascertained by an inspection of the oesophagus after death, and the case might have depended upon some organic disease either of this tube, or the parts in its vicinity, not classed by the generality of modern writers with stric- tures of the passage. The following are some of Sir Everard Home’s sentiments, respecting these last cases. As the oesophagus is required to be wider at one time, and narrower at another, in order to be fitted for conveying the different kinds of food into the stomach, it is nearly under the same cir- cumstances, with respect to the formation of stricture, as the urethra. For obvious reasons, strictures of the oesophagus are much less fre- quent than those of the urethra. However, they are by no means uncommon, and produce symptoms even much more distressing and dan- gerous, than those, which ordinarily arise from analogous obstructions in the passage for the urine. Of course, the most remarkable symptom of a stricture in the oesophagus is the difficulty of swallowing, which must be greater or less, ac- cording as the obstruction is more or less com- plete. Sometimes no solid food whatever can pass down into the stomach, and fluids can only descend with great difficulty, and in very small quantities. This is, in some instances, attended with considerable pain, which extends along the fauces to the basis of the skull, and through the eustachiau lube to the car. The pain sometimes