424 erysipelas. they were obliged to have recourse to the sup- position of a mixture oi the humors, by means of which tumors of a mixed descripiion were formed; whence, no doubt, we derive the dis- tinction of simple or true erysipelas, (produced merely by extravasation and deposit of the bilious hufnor under the skin:) from the com- pound or spurious, which took its name from the humor at the time most prevalent; hence the names of phlegmonous, cedematous, scirrhous, erysipelas, &c. In order to have just ideas, respecting the va- rious forms of erysipelas, the first thing is to establish an eligible classification of them. De- sault prefers the division of erysipelas into phlegmonous, bilious, and local; (Chir. Jouni. Vol. 2.) an arrangement which seems founded on experience, and correct observation. Mr. Pearson also divides the complaint into three forms, viz. the phegmonous, the (edematous, and gangrenous; (Principles of Surgery, Chop, x ) Burserius notices, 1. The idiopathic, or primitive erysipelas, or that which arises, spontaneously from an internal cause, unpreceded by any other disease. 2. Symptomatic, or secondary erysipe- las, depending on another affection, by which its progress is completely influenced. 3. Accidental erysipelas, or that which is casually excited by some external manifest cause. (Inslit. Med. Pruc. T. 2. C. 2. 8iin. Lips. 1798.) In the bilious erysipelas, which would be classed, as an idiopathic case, the swelling is trifling, and often imperceptible, the skin of a rose-colour, generally a little verging towards yellow. The sensation, which the patient ex- periences, is neither that of tension nor pulsation, but a painful smarting, similar to what results from the application of hot water, or from ex- posure to the burning rays of the sun. Towards the period of the invasion of this dis- ease, and often several days previously, the ap- petite is lost, the mouth bitter, the tongue moist, and covered with a yellow mucus. Nausea and sometimes bilious vomitings come on. The pa- tient becomes weak and dejected, and is affected with wandering pains and considerable heat, without any particular dryness of the skin or violent sense of thirst. Sometimes the disease begins with fever, more or less violent, preceded by shivering and violent pain in the head. In the phlegmonous erysipelas, the skin is more raised than in the preceding species, the swelling harder and deeper, and of a darker colour. There is generally a slight degree of tension of the integuments, with pungent pain, and occa- sionally a sensation of throbbing. On the first days of the attack, there is neither bitterness in the mouth, nor nausea, the skin and tongue be- come dry, and are accompanied with a violent sense of thirst; the pulse is full and hard, indi- cating plethora. This form of erysipelas most frequently occurs in the face, usually affecting only one side of it; sometimes it seizes one of the extremities ; and, in both cases, it is ushered in by a smart feverish attack. (Bateman, Sy- nopsis of Cutaneous Diseases, 1\ 126', Ed. 3.) At the expiration of a few days, particularly when the disease has been treated by bleeding and an antiphlogistic regimen, the tongue be- comes foul and moist at its edges, bitterness of ; hc mouth and nausea supervene, and the disease, in its progress, presents little difference from bilious erysipelas. ( Parisian- C/thurgicat Jour- nul, Vol. 2, p. 24, dfc.) The following is a description of phlegmonous erysipelas, as it sometimes appears when it at- tacks the head. The attack is mostly preceded by shiverings, complaints about the region of the heart, and other symptoms very similar to those which in- dicate the approach of an intermittent fever. The heat is often accompanied with a little de- lirium, and almost always with drowsiness of a more or less evident kind. The swelling gene- rally makes its appearance on the second night, or third day of the fever, attacking the forehead, the cheeks, the nose, or eyelids. This swelling is elastic and smooth ; but it is not distinctly circumscribed, and it gradually spreads over such parts of the face as were not at first af- fected. The skin becomes of a bright red colour; occasionally having a tendency to a livid hue; in other instances having a mixture of yellow. These colours disappear when pressure is made on the part affected, but very soon reappear when such pressure is discontinued. The pa- tient experiences a burning heat, and a disagree- able pricking in the part, rather than any acute pain; sometimes he complains of a very trouble- some itching. The surface of the tumor is shin- ing, and, as it were, semi-transparent; but with- out hardness, tension, or any sensation of throb- bing. The eyelids are often so swollen that the patient cannot see, and the whole countenance is exceedingly disfigured. On more or less of the erysipelatous tumor vesications arise on the fourth, or fifth day; they are filled with a trans- parent serous fluid, and bear a great resemblance to those which are occasioned by boiling water. 'They commonly burst, or subside on the fifth, or sixth; the fluid", which is discharged, sometimes excoriating the neighbouring parts. Frequently, there is even a slight ulceration at their base, which ulceration, in the worst sort of cases, as- sumes a gangrenous appearance, and falls rapidly into a state of complete mortification. W hen the disease takes a more favourable course, the fever now begins to abate; the vesications dry up; and, at the end of eight or twelve days, the cuticle peels of, and the scabs, situated in places which were occupied by the vesications, fall ofl. The degree of danger depends materially on the delirium and other symptoms indicating an affec- tion of the brain. When phlegmonous erysipelas attacks the face, the termination of the disorder in suppuration is very rare. (Bateman, 1 of. ci>. p. 127.) According to several writers, the seat of erysipelas in the greater number of cases is the very surface of the cutis; its most vas- cular and nervous part. (Die. d s Sciences M-d. T. 13. />. 255.) And, perhaps, it may be true, that the disorder here commences, and is most intense. Yet, there can be no doubt, that the affection generally extends more deeply, and affects the subjacent cellular membrane, par- ticularly in eases of phlegmonous erysipelas. The affection of the cellular membrane, however, is very different from what happens in phleg- monous inflammation. In true erysipelas, healthy pus is rarely found enclosed in a circumscribed cavity; and when there is any secretion ol puru-