37ft DISLOCATION. criminated from a rupture of the artery. (CEuvres Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, T. I.) For dispersing the above kind of swelling, the lotio plumbi acetatis, and gentle compression with a bandage, are recommended. I shall conclude the subject of luxations of the shoulder with the following singular observation, recorded by Baron Larrey. “ Among the curious anatomical preparations, (says he) which I saw in the cabinet of the University of Vienna, there was a dissected thorax, shewn to me by Professor Prokaska, in which the whole orbicular mass of the head of the right humerus, engaged between the se- cond and third true ribs, projected into the cavity of the chest. This singular displacement was the result of an accidental luxation occasioned by a fall on the elbow, while the arm was ex- tended and lifted from the side. The head of the humerus, after tearing the capsular ligament, had been violently driven into the hollow of the axilla, under the pectoral muscles, so as to separate the two corresponding ribs, and pass be- tween them. The diameter of the head of the bone surmounted this obstacle, and penetrated entirely into the cavity of the thorax, pushing before it the adjacent portion of the pleura. Every possible effort was made in vain to re- duce this extraordinary dislocation. The ur- gent symptoms, which arose, were dissipated by bleeding, warm bathing, and antiphlogistic re- medies. The arm, however, remained at a di- stance from the. side, to which condition, the pa- tient became gradually habituated, and, after several years of suffering and oppression, he at length experienced no inconvenience. The pa- tient wTas about sixteen or seventeen, when he met with the accident; and he lived to the age of thirty-one, when he died of some disease, which had no concern with the dislocation. His phy- sicians were anxious to ascertain the nature of this curious case, of which they had been able to form only an imperfect judgment. They were much surprised to find, upon opening the body, the head of the humerus lodged in the chest, surrounded by the pleura, and its neck closely embraced by the two ribs above specified. They were still more astonished to find, instead of a hard spherical body covered with cartilage, only a very soft membranous ball, which yielded to the slightest pressure of the finger. The cartilage and osseous texture of the whole portion of the humerus, contained within the cavity of the chest, had entirely disappeared. Les ubsorbans s’en etaient emparts (says M. Larrey), et comwe autanl de gardiens tide les, its avaient cliercM a detruirc par portions, n’ay ant pu I’eiytuhcr en masse, un ennemi qui s'£ lull furtivem.cn t introduit dans un domicile eu sa presence devait etre im- portune et miisible. Of the humerus, there only remained some membranous rudiments of its headland a great part of these seemed to belong to the pleura costalis. (See Larrey's Mtmoircs de Chirwgie Militaire, Tam. 2, p. 405—407.) ^DISLOCATIONS OF THE FORE-ABM FROM THE HUMERUS. Notwithstanding the extent of the articular surfaces of the radius and ulna, the strength of the muscles and ligaments surrounding the joint, and the mutual reception of the bony eminences, rendering the articulation a perfect angular ginglymus, a dislocation of both the radius and ulna off'the humerus, is an accident for which a surgeon is sometimes consulted. The radius and ulna are most frequently luxated backward; sometimes laterally, but very rarely forward : the latter luxation cannot occur with- out a fracture of the olecranon. Indeed, it is so uncommon, that neither Petit nor Desault ever met with it. The luxation backv/ards is facili- tated by the small size of the coronoid process, which may slide behind the humerus, when this is forcibly pushed downwards and forwards, and ascend as high as the cavity, which receives the olecranon in the extended state of the fore-arm. Lateral luxations are much less frequent, and are always incomplete. The great extent of the articular surfaces in the transverse direction, the reciprocal adaptation of their inequalities, and especially the strength of the ligaments and mus- cles, which, arising from the internal and exter- nal condyles of the inferior extremity of the hu- merus, go to the fore-arm and hand, give great strength to the articulation, and render it nearly impossible for any violence to produce a com- plete lateral luxation, which also, if it were to occur, would be attended with such mischief to the soft parts, as would require immediate ampu- tation. In the luxation backwards, the radius and ulna may ascend more or less behind the humerus ; but the coronoid process of the ulna is always carried abor'e the articular pulley, and is found lodged in the cavity destined to receive the ole- cranon. The head of the radius is placed behind and above the externa! condyle of the humerus. The annular ligament, which confines the supe- rior extremity of the radius to the ulna, may be lacerated: in which case, even when the bones are reduced, it is difficult to keep them in their proper places, as the radius tends constantly to quit the ulna. This accident always takes place from a fall on the hand; for, when we are falling, we are led by a mechanical instinct to bring our hands forwards to protect the body. If in this case the superior extremity, instead of resting vertically on the ground, be placed obliquely with the band nearly in a state of supination, the repulsion which it receives from the ground will cause the two bones of the fore-arm to ascend behind the humerus, whilst the weight of the body pressing on the humerus, directed obliquely downwards, forces its extremity to pass down before the coronoid process of the ulna. The fore-arm is in a state of half-flexion, and every attempt to extend it produces acute pain. The situation of the olecranon, with respect to the condyles of the humerus, is changed. The olecranon, which, in the natural state, is placed on a level with the external condyle, which is itself situated lower tlian the internal, is even higher than the latter. The case may be mistaken for a fracture of the olecranon, of the head of the radius, or even of the inferior extremity of the humerus. Such a mistake is attended with very bad consequences; for, if the reduction be not effected before the end of fif“ teen or twenty days, the reduction aftenvards i* frequently impossible. The swelling which super- venes in twenty-four hours after the accident,