PAR 918 PAR disease is named tympanites, and may render making an opening into the abdomen necessary. Notwithstanding authors generally recommend a small trocar for the purpose; there can be no doubt, that dividing the skin, and making a cau- tious puncture with a lancet through the linea alba, and peritonaeum, would be a preferable mode of proceeding. The abdomen must also be com- pressed with a sheet, while the air is escaping, and, afterwards, with a roller, just as if the ease were an ascites. Even when the air is contained in the bowels, if it should be enormous in quantity, occasion urgent symptoms, and cannot be got rid of in other ways, authors recommend para- centesis. ■PARACENTESIS OF THE THORAX. The necessity for this operation is indicated, when the heart, or lungs, are oppressed by any kind of fluid confined in the cavity of the chest, Every body knows, that the free and unin- terrupted performance of the functions of these organs is essential to the support of life. When the action of these viscera is disturbed by the lodgment of a collection of any kind of fluid in the thorax, no internal medicines can be much depended upon for procuring relief. The only means, from which benefit can be rationally ex- pected, is letting out the fluid, by making an opening in the parietes of the chest. The nature of the effused fluid can make no difference, in regard to the propriety of dis- charging it in this manner; and, though some authors have only treated of this operation, as applicable to cases of hydrops pectoris and em- pyema, it may also be of the greatest service when air is confined in the chest (see Emphy- sema,) or blood extravasated there (see Wounds of tlic Thorax,) so as to make dangerous pres- sure on the lungs and diaphragm. In this place, I shall content myself with de- scribing the best method of performing para- centesis thoracis, referring the reader to the articles just mentioned for information, con- cerning the particular symptoms and circum- stances, which may render the operation proper, and the rest of the surgical treatment peculiar to each affection. The safest, and most convenient situation, for making an opening into the chest, is be- tween the sixth and seventh true ribs, on either side, as circumstances may render necessary. The surgeon should only recollect, that the two cavities of the pleura are completely distinct from each other, and have no communication whatsoever, so that, if fluid were contained on the left side of the thorax, making an opening into the right cavity would not serve for dis- charging the accumulated matter. The prac- titioner should also remember, that, when there is a fluid on both sides of the chest, paracentesis must never be done for the relief of the two col- lections, at the same time; because, there is great reason to believe, that, as the lungs on one side usually collapse, when there is a free communication between the air and inside of the thorax, they would do so on botli sides, were an opening made at the same time into each bag of the pleura. It is hardly necessary to remark, that in this mnrlitimi. thp natient could nOt breathe, and would die suffocated. The operation con- sists in making an incision, about two inches long, through the integuments, which cover the space between the sixth and seventh true ribs, just where the indignations of the serratus major anticus muscle meet those of the externus obli- quus. Here it is unnecessary to divide anv muscular fibres, except those of the intercostal muscles, and, by putting the patient in a proper posture, t.ie opening that is to be made, will be depending enough for any purpose whatsoever. The surgeon, avoiding the lower edge of the upper rib, where the intercostal artery lies, is then cautiously to divide the layers of the inter- costal muscles, till he brings the pleura into view; when this membrane is to be very care- fully divided with a lancet. The instrument should never be introduced in the least deeply, lest the lungs should be injured. The size of the opening in the pleura should never be larger than necessary. The discharge of blood and matter will of course require a freer aperture, than that of air or water. If requisite, a cannula may be introduced into the wound, for the pur- pose of facilitating the evacuation of the fluid, and it may even in some cases be proper to let this instrument remain in the part, in order to let the water, or pus escape, as often as another ac- cumulation takes place. It is obvious, however, that a cannula, for this object, should only be just long enough to enter the cavity of the pleura, and should have a broad rim to keep it from slipping into the chest. A piece of sticking- plaster would easily fix the cannula, which might be stopped up with a cork, or any other con- venient thing, or left open, according as the circumstances of the case, and the judgment of. the surgeon, should direct. Paracentesis of the abdomen, and that of the thorax, are described in all treatises on the ope- rations, and systems of surgery. The works of Sharp, Le- Dran, Bcrtrandi, Calliscn, Richter, Sabatier, Larrcy, and Boyer, arc particularly deserving attention. A case, in which eleven pints of a fluid, resembling whey, were dis- charged from the chest by paracentesis, and the patient recovered, is detailed by Dr. Archer in the Trans, of the King's and Queen’s Colleges of Physicians in Ireland, Jot. I, art. 1. See also iV. Friedreich, Vorzuge dcs Bauchstichcs in der Bauchxoasscrsucht, 1 '2mo. JVurzb. 1816, 1817. . > For an account of the paracentesis of the bladder, refer to Bladder, Puncture of. Con- sult also Emphysema, Empyema, and IFounds of the Thorax. PARAPHYMO'SIS, or Paraphimosis. (from itaox, back, and qty.ow, to bridle.) This signifies the case, in which the prepuce is drawn quite behind the glans penis, and cannot be brought forward again. See Phymosis, wTith which it will be considered. PAllONY'CHIA. (from ara(a, near, and evu£, the nail.) An abscess at the end of the finger, near the nail. See Whitlow. PAROTID DUCT. Every one acquainted with anatomy is aware, that behind the jaw, on each side, there is situated a large conglomerate gland, being the principal one of such as are de- stined to secrete the saliva, with which the cavity of the mouth, and the food, which we swallow, i H