982 SPINA BIFIDA. which 1 sometimes use iov umbilical hernia in chiklien, ami this has been continued ever since. At the age of fifteen months, it began to make use of its limbs; it could crawl along a passage, and up two pair of stairs. At eighteen months, by some accident, the truss slipped from the tumor, which had become of the size of a small orange, and the mother observed, when it was reduced, that the child appeared income degree dull; and this was always the case, if the truss was left off for afew minutes, and then re-applied. At fifteen months, he began to talk; and at two years of age, lie could walk alone. He now goes to school, runs, jumps, and plays about, as other children. His powers of mind do not appear to differ from those of other children. His memory is retentive, and he learns with facility. He had the measles and small-pox in the first year, and the hooping-cough at three years. His head pre- viously and subsequently to the bones closing, has preserved a due proportion to other parts of the body. The tumor is kept by the truss en- tirely within the channel of the spine ; but when the truss is removed, it soon becomes of the size of half a small orange. It is therefore ne- cessary, that the use of the truss should be con- tinued. When the truss is removed, the finger can be readily pressed through the tumor into the channel of the spine.’’ (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 2, p. 323, \c.) The next case, also published by Sir Astley Cooper, will prove, that spinae bifidse may some- times be treated on another plan, so as to ac ■ complish a permanent cure. “January 21st, 1809, Mrs. Little of No. 27, Limehouse Causeway, brought to my house her son, aged ten weeks, who was the subject of spina bifida. The tumor was situated on the loins ; it was soft, elastic, and transparent; and its size about as large as a billiard ball when cut in half; his legs were perfectly sensible, and his urine and feces were under the power of the will, &c. Having endeavoured to push the water, contained in the tumor, into the channel of the spine, and finding that if the whole was returned, the pressure would be too great upon the brain; I thought it a fair opportunity of trying what would be the effect of evacuating the swelling by means of a very fine pointed instrument, and by subsequent pressure to bring it into the state of the spina bifida in Applebee’s child. I there- fore immediately punctured the tumor with a needle, and drew off about two ounces of water. On the 25th January, finding the tumor as large as before it had been punctured, I opened it again, and in the same manner, and discharged about four ounces of fluid. The child cried when the fluid was evacuated, but not whilst it was passing off. On January 28th, the tumor was as large as at first; I opened it again, and dis- charged the fluid. A roller was applied over the tumor, and around the abdomen. February 1st, it was again pricked, and two ounces of fluid discharged. On the 4th, three ounces of fluid were discharged. On the 9th, the same quan- tity of fluid was evacuated as on the 4th ; but, in- stead of its being perfectly clear, as at first, it was now sanious, and it had been gradually becoming on in 4 lv n fit von frirmPI* HTlPrH S. Oil tllO 1 Sill. around the abdomen ; a piece of pasteboard was placed upon the flannel roller over the tuinor, and another roller over the pasteboard to con- fine it. On the 17 th, three ounces of fluid, of a more limpid kind, were discharged; the paste- board was again applied. On the 27th, the sur- face of the tumor inflamed ; the fluid, not more than half its former quantity, was mixed with co- agulable lymph, and the child suffering consider- able constitutional irritation, was ordered calo- mel and scammony, and the rollers were dis- continued. On the 2Gth, the tumor was not more than a quarter of its former size ; it felt solid ; the integuments were thickened, and it had all the appearance of having undergone the adhe- sive inflammation. On the 28th, it was still more reduced iri size, and felt solid. March 8th, the swelling was very much lessened; the skin over it thickened and wrinkled; a roller was again had recourse to; a card was put over the tumor, and a second roller was applied. March 11th, the tumor was much reduced; the skin covering it was a little ulcerated. On the 15th, it was flat, but still a little ulcerated. On the 27th, the effused coagulable lymph was consider- ably reduced in quantity, and of a very firm con- sistence. On the 2d of May, nothing more than a loose pendulous bag of skin remained, and the child appearing to be perfectly well, the bandage was soon left off - On December the 18th, the child was attacked with the small-pox, and went well through the disease. The skin now hangs flaccid from the basis of the sacrum ; its centre is drawn to the spine, to which it is united, and thus the appearance of a navel is produced in the tu- mor by retraction of the skin. The pricks of the needles are very obvious, forming slight inden- tations.” (See Med. Chir. Trans. (ol. 2, p. 326—329.) At the time when Sir A. Cooper transmitted this case to the Medical and Chirurgical Society, it had been under his observation two years and a half. The first of the preceding observations exem- plifies the palliative treatment, adopted by the latter gentleman, and consisting of the applica- tion of pressure, in the manner of a truss for hernia; the second shews the radical mode of cure by puncturing the swelling from time to time with a needle, and exciting the adhesive inflammation, which, with the assistance of press- ure, stops the disease altogether, that is to say, in such examples as admit of cure. Children are sometimes born with tumors, analogous to spinae bifidac, but situated on the head. There is a deficiency of bone at some part of the skull, and through the opening a sac, composed of the dura mater, protrudes, covered only by the integuments. Mr. Earle lately met with such a swelling situated upon the occiput of a female infant. The plan of re- peatedly making small punctures with a common needle, discharging the fluid, healing up the punctures, and applying pressure, was tried, and followed up for some time without the occur- rence of any unpleasant symptoms. Even punc- tures were sometimes made with an ordinary lan- cet; yet, the child suffered no harm from the onerntion. and some hones of a cure were in-