1166 VENEREAL . DISEASE. course, after the venereal action lias been de- stroyed. Whatever may be hereafter decided, concerning the superiority of mercury as a remedy for many secondary symptoms, one thing appears already well made out, viz. that it should always be employed with moderation, lest it produce worse effects, and more terrible diseases, than those, which it is designed to re- lieve. For an account of the various ways of exhibiting it, I must refer to the article Mer- cury. To the following ingenious reasoning, on the operation of mercury, and the principles, by which its administration should be regulated, surgeons of the present day will not give more credit than facts warrant, because some of Mr. Hunter’s opinions are manifestly influenced by the supposition, that mercury is absolutely ne- cessary for the cure of the venereal disease. In curing the lues venerea, mercury can only have two modes of action ; one on the poison ; the other on the constitution. If, says Mr. Hunter, mercury acted on the poison only, one might conceive it did so, either by destroying its qualities, by decomposing it, or else by attract- ing it and carrying it out of the circulation. If mercury acted in the first of these ways, one would expect, that the cure would depend on the quantity of the medicine taken into the system. If it acted in the second manner, one would infer, that, the progress of the cure would be proportionate to the quantity of evacuation. But, observes Mr. Hunter, if it act upon the principle of destroying the diseased action of the living parts, and of counteracting the venereal irritation, by producing one of a different kind, then, neither quantity alone, nor evacuations, will avail much. He states, that the quickness of the cure depends on quantity, joined with visible effects. However, it is added, that, although the effects which mercury has upon the venereal dis- ease, are in some degree proportioned to the local effects of the medicine on some of the glands, or particular parts of the body, as the mouth, skin, kidneys, and intestines, yet such effects are not altogether proportioned to these other circumstances. When mercury disagrees witjj the constitution, so as to produce great irri- tability and hectic symptoms, this action of irri- tation, as Mr. Hunter explains, is not a counter- irritation to the venereal disease. It was also noticed by the same author, that the effects of mercury on lues venerea are always in proportion to the quantity of the remedy exhibited in a given time, and the sus- ceptibility of the constitution to the mercurial irritation. He says, that these circumstances require the most minute attention, and that, in order to obtain the greatest action of mercury with safety, and in the most effectual manner, the medicine must be given, till it produces effects somewhere. However; it must not be exhibited too quickly, in order that a sufficient quantity may be given, before we are obliged to stop, in consequence of the effects. Mr. Hunter thinks, that when the local effects arc pro- duced too quickly, they prevent a sufficient quantity of the remedy from being taken into the svstem to counteract the venereal irritation cases, in which mercury acted very readily' locally, and, yet the constitution was hardly affected by it, for the disease would not give way. He states, that he has met with other cases, in which the mere quantity of mercury did not answer, till it was given so quickly as to affect the constitution in such a manner, as to produce local irritation, and, consequently, sen- sible evacuations. This, he observes, is a proof, that the local effects of mercury are often the sign of its specific effects on the constitution at large, and it shows, that the susceptibility of the diseased parts to be affected by the medicine, is in proportion to its effects on the mouth. Its effects, he contends, are not to be imputed to evacuation ; but, to its irritation. Hence, he in- culcates, that mercury should be given, if pos- sible, in such a manner, as to produce sensible effects upon some parts of the body, and in the largest quantity that can be given, to produce these effects within certain bounds. Mr. Hunter also remarks, that these sensible effects should be the means of determining, how far the medi- cine may be pushed, so as to have the greatest effect on the disease, without endangering the constitution. The practice must vary accord- ing to circumstances ; and if the disease is in a violent degree, less regard must be had to the constitution, and mercury must be thrown into the system in larger quantities; a very dan- gerous precept, as far as I can judge from many cases, in which I have seen it acted upon. Mr. Hunter likewise acquaints us, that, when the disease is in the first order of parts, a smaller quantity of mercury is necessary, than when the second order of parts are affected, and. the dis- ease has been of long standing, its first appear- ances alone being cured, and the venereal dis- position still remaining in the secondary parts. For the purpose of curing the venereal disease, whether in the form of chancre, bubo, or lues venerea, Mr. Hunter was of opinion, that pro- bably the same quantity of mercury is necessary. He represents, that one sore requires as much mercury as fifty sores in the same person, and a small sore as much as a large one. Fie thought, that the only difference, if there is any, must de- pend upon the nature of the parts affected, that is, on their being naturaliy active or indolent. He conceived, however, that, on the whole, re- cent venereal complaints are generally more dif- ficult of cure, than the symptoms of lues vene- rea, and that this may make a difference, in re- gard to the quantity of mercury necessary. Having now delivered the principal general instructions, relative to the exhibition of mer- cury in the treatment of the venereal disease, as given by Mr. Hunter, I must not quit this sub- ject, without remarking, that even this eminent surgeon appears on the whole too partial to the long use of mercury, and sometimes to the in- troduction of immoderate quantities of it into the system. In general, however, his observations tend to condemn all violent salivations. It is to be recollected, that, in his days, nobody had a suspicion that truly syphilitic sores (if this ex- pression be allowable, while they cannot be de- fined, nor distinguished by their appearances) would in the end spontaneously heal, and he ‘ i i ! r : . : I !!