TESTICLE. 1021 « About a year afterwards, a gland enlarged the left groin, (the same side as the testis,) ■ other then became swoln in the right groin, d, in the course of two years, several glands each groin had obtained a very considerable o-nitude. At this period, he was admitted 0 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care Mr. Long. The testis was, at this time, ween four or five inches in length, and about . ee in breadth ; it resembled its natural form, 1 was indolent in its disposition. The sper- l '.tic chord was thickened, but not much .indu- ed. Four or fijje glands were enlarged in the j oin on both sidds; each of which was of the ,e of a very large orange; and when observed ; Tether, they formed a tumor of very uncom- ; >n shape and magnitude. ; I “ They gradually increased in size for several i mths, till at last the skin appeared as if unable contain them any longer. It became thin, in- med, and ulcerated, first in the left groin, and -us exposed one of the most prominent tumors. ie exposed tumor inflamed and sloughed pro- •essivelv, till it entirely came away. As the mghing exposed its vessels, which were large, 'ey bled profusely, insomuch that the students :deavoured, but in vain, to secure them by liga- res: for the substance of the tumor was cut rough, and torn away in the attempt. Press- . e by the finger, continued for some time, was ; e only effectual mode of restraining this he- morrhage. ■ “ The loss of one gland relieved the distended in, which had only ulcerated on the most pro- inent part of the tumor, and had not become ■ seased. It now lost its inflamed aspect: granu- tions formed, and a cicatrix took place. In e opposite groin a similar occurrence hap- med. One gland, exposed by the ulceration of e skin, sloughed out, being attended by the rcumstances just recited. However, before the tin was cicatrized, ulceration had again taken ace in the right groin, in consequence of the reat distention of the skin from the growth of ie tumor; and sloughing had begun in the imor, when the patient, whose vital powers had mg been greatly exhausted, died.” (SeeAber- “ cthy'ss Surgical Observations, 1804.) The preceding kind of disease is now gene- ltly considered to be fungus haematodes. If iere are any differences, they consist in the ■ arts sloughing out, and then healing, instead of ' fungus shooting out, and continually iricreas- .ig in size. (See Fungus Hecmatodcs.) Dr. Baillie has noticed some affections, in hich the testicle becomes bony, cartilaginous, :c.; but on these it is not necessary for s to dwell in this Dictionary. The prece- ing observations may be considered as relating xpressly to the diseases, for which castration is encrally performed. (See Castration.) Besides the fungus, which arises from the tes- icle in the advanced stage of carcinoma, and thc- lecding fungous growth, which arises from this rgan in the ulcerated state of fungus hsema- ades, there is another superficial fungous excres- ence» to which the testicle is subject, and which 1 entirely free from all malignancy. The dis- ase, to which I refer, has been noticed by Cal- under the name of lipoma of the testicle. ■Si ex 3uperficie albuginetc vcl ipsa tunica Vagi* nali exerescentiae surgunt, totum demum testem involventes, etscirrlmm seu fungum, mentientes, ipsius tamen testis substantia parum aut vix de statu naturali aberrante; malum naturam lipo- raatis sequitur, vix unquam in serrrhum et car- cinoma abiens.” (See Sy sterna Chirurgicc IIo- diernie, Vol. 2, p. 145, Edit. 1800.) The su- perficial fungus, or lipoma of the testicle, was noticed in an early edition of another publication, and described as “a particular affection of the testicle, in which a fungus grows from the glandular substance of this body, and, in some instances, from the surface of the tunica albu- ginea. This excrescence is usually preceded by an enlargement of the testicle, in consequence of a bruise, or some species of external violence. A small abscess takes place, and bursts, and from the ulcerated opening the fungus gradually pro- trudes.” I then proceeded to represent how un- necessary and improper it was to extirpate the testicle, on account of this affection, if, after the subsidence of the inflammation, the part should not seem much enlarged and indurated. I re- commended the fungus to be cut off, or else destroyed with caustic ; and I founded my advice on a successful attempt of the first kind, which was made in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, by Sir James Earle, a little while before my book was published. (See First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, p. 399.) An interesting little paper has also been writ- ten on the subject, by my friend Mr. Lawrence, who has favoured the public with a more parti- cular account, and nine cases illustrative of the causes, symptoms, and progress of the disorder. According to Mr. Lawrence, the patient gene- rally assigns some blow, or other injur)', as the cause of the complaint; in other instances, it originates in consequence of the hernia humo- ralis from gonorrhoea, and sometimes appears- spontaneously. A painful swelling of the gland, particularly characterized by its hardness, is the first appearance of the disease. After a certain length of time, the scrotum, growing gradually thinner, ulcerates; but, the opening, which is thus formed, instead of discharging matter, gives issue to a firm, and generally insensible fungus. The surrounding integuments and cellular sub- stance are thickened and indurated by the com- plaint, so that there appears to be altogether a considerable mass of disease. The pain abates, and the swelling subsides considerably, when the scrotum has given way. In this state, the dis- order appears very indolent; but if the fungus be destroyed by any means, the integuments come together, and a cicatrix ensues, which is inseparably connected with the testicle. Mr. Lawrence next informs us, that if the part he examined while the fungus still remains, the excrescence is found to have its origin in the glandular substance of the testicle itself; that the coats of the part are destroyed to a certain extent; and that a protrusion of the tubuli se- miniferi takes place through the aperture thus formed. Mr. Lawrence says, he has often as- certained the continuity of the excrescences with the pulpy substance of the testicle, of which more or less remains, according to the difference in the period of the disorder. The same gentle- man thinks, that the glandular part of the tes- ticle experiences an inflammatory affection in