MORTIFICATION. 827 to let the topical applications extend their action without delay to the subjacent living surface. (See Hospital Gangrene.) Pott’s sentiments, with respect to the danger and inutility of cutting the tendons and ligaments, in the mortification of the toes and feet, have been already stated. If the surgeon prudently await the event of things, the separation of the mortified from the living parts will soon follow the establishment of inflammation and suppuration at the edges of the • slough. But, when the whole thickness of a limb is af- fected with mortification, ought the surgeon to leave things to nature ? or ought he to have re- course to amputation ? In general, the performance of amputation is indispensable; not that nature would not in many instances detach the sphacelated part; but, be- cause a great length of time would be required for the completion of the process, and a service- able stump would rarely be left. Another important question then arises, should the surgeon amputate, while the mortification is in a spreading state? Or ought he to defer the operation, until a line of separation begins to - form between the dead and living parts? • * “ Amputation (says a distinguished professor) was long regarded as one of the most effectual means which could be employed to prevent the extension of gangrene. This practice, however, has not received the sanction of experience; on the contrary, it has been generally found, where- ever it has been practised, jin either acute or chronic gangrene, to accelerate much the pro- gress of the disease; and, irfdhis way, to hasten the death of the patient. Tne parts, which were divided in amputation, though at a distance from a spreading gangrene and from sphacelus, were found speedily to assume the appearance of the affection, for which the operation had been per- formed. Till, therefore, the adhesive inflam- mation comes on, and a distinctly marlced se- paration of the dead from the sound parts takes place, amputation is, in few, if any cases of mortification, admissible. We never know, previously to this, where a gangrene, or sphace- lus, is to stop, nor whether the powers of the con- stitution be sufficient to sustain the injury that the mortification has inflicted. Even when the adhesive inflammation comes on, it is in most cases best to allow some time to elapse before we operate, partly with a view to give time for the constitutional symptoms to abate, in other instances, to allow the patient’s strength to be recyntecl by nourishment and cordials; and partly also with a view to learn whether the con- stitution of the patient be indeed capable of so great a fresh shock, as that which amputation must necessarily occasion.” (See Thomson's Lectures, p. 582.) According t0 Rfehtet, there is never any cer- tainty, that we are amputating in living parts, i fortification rapidly ascends along the cellular substance, surrounding1 the large blood-vessels, tml is frequently much more extensive inter- nally, than external appearances would lead one to suppose. The adjacent surface, still appa- rent'y alive, is often so affected, that it must in- > vit.ifily slough, though, at present, it may not actually have sphacelated. The surgeon ima- f gmes, that amputation is performed on living parts; but, soon afterwards discovers, that he has been dividing those which are dead. The operation, he observes, can do no good, while the mortification is in a spreading state, and it may do considerable mischief. The disorder en- larges its limits, because its cause still operates, and this is not removable by amputation. If the operation be now injudiciously undertaken, the sphacelus invades the wound, and is the more certainly mortal, as the patient has been further weakened by amputation, and its conse- quences. Many mortifications, especially those which arise from external causes, very often spontane- ously stop and separate. But, the place, where this will happen, can never be foreseen. By amputating in this circumstance, we run a risk of disturbing nature in her salutary work, and rendering the disorder fatal. The following are the only cases, in which Richter allows that the use of the knife is justi- fiable and proper. There exists a species of sphacelus, which rapidly occasions death, before it is yet of great extent. Here indeed, amputa- tion might be really advisable; but, the nature of the case is unfortunately never disclosed, be- fore the fatal catastrophe. Some external in- juries would be, without the operation, inevita- bly followed by mortification. In such cases, early amputation is evidently proper; for, the simple incision is attended with less danger, than sphacelus. Sometimes, says Richter, a sphacelus spontaneously ceases to spread. This happens most frequently in cases which originate from an external cause, such as a violent contusion, burn, &c. But, the occurrence is not restricted to this kind of case, nor is it invariably attendant on it. When there are no other occasional causes present, the mortification does not readily go beyond the limits of the contusion, or violent burn ; but the interference of surgery can hardly ever put a stop to its progress, before it has spread as far as the extent of the local injury. (.Anfangsgrum.de dcr Wundarzneykunst, Band. 1, Kap. 3.) How different are the doctrines of Baron Larrey upon this subject from those entertained by Richter, and, indeed, the generality of emi- nent modern surgeons. “ Writers on gangrene, or sphacelus of the extremities (says Larrey) indiscriminately recommend the amputation of a sphacelated limb never to be undertaken before the mortification is bounded or limited by a red- dish circle, forming a true line of separation between the dead and living parts. This cir- cumstance can only occur in a case of spontane- ous gangrene from an internal cause; or if it happens, as is very unusual, in a case arising from a wound, its progress is different, and it would be exceedingly imprudent to wait for it. The gangrene from external injuries almost always continues to spread; the infection be- comes general; and the patient dies." {Mem. de Chirurgie Militairc, T. 3, p. 142.) Re- specting the want of foundation for this hypo- thesis of infection, I need here offer no remarks, having already expressed my opinion upon it in a foregoing page. On the other hand, Larrey asserts, that, in the dry, or spontaneous gan- grene, absorption takes place with more difficulty, and it is not uncommon to see the sphacelated