OPHTHALMY. 890 there is no reason to warrant the idea, that the ulceration ever proceeds from within outwards. He observes, that, when any large portion of the cornea sloughs, an adventitious and vascular membrane is often produced, which finally forms a staphyloma. “ In some few cases, ^savs he) I have seen the lens and its capsule exposed, without any external covering whatever, and, for a short time, the patient saw every thing with wonderful accuracy; but, as soon as the cap- sule gives way, the lens and more or less of the vitreous humour escape, the eye shrinks, and the cornea contracts into a small lioni- coloured speck.” This total destruction of the globe ot the eye is said generally to insure the other, and renders it less liable to be ali'eeted by future attacks of inflammation. A few year? ago, an oplithalmy, supposed to be of the same nature as the Egyptian, though milder, like that which lias generally been ob- served in schools, occurred to a great extent in the Royal Military Asylum at Chelsea, and Mr. M'Gregor, the surgeon of that Institution, lias favoured the public with an excellent description of the disease, and some highly interesting facts and reflections upon the subject. In the Mili- tary Asylum the symptoms of this species of oplithalmy generally made their appearance in the following order: “A considerable degree of itching was first felt in the evening ; this was succeeded by a sticking together of the eyelids, principally complained of by the patient on waking in the morning. The eyelids appeared fuller externally, than they naturally are; and on examinin'! their internal surface, this was found inflamed. The sebaceous glands of the tarsi were considerably enlarged, and of a redder colour than usual. The caruncula lachryinalis had a similar appearance. “ In 24 or 30 hours after the appearance of the above-mentioned symptoms, a viscid mucous discharge took place from the internal surface of each eyelid, aiid lodged at the inner canthus, till the quantity was sufficient to be pressed over the cheek by the motions of the eye. The ves- sels of the tunica conjunctiva, covering the eye- ball, were distended with red blood, and the tunica conjunctiva was generally so thickened, and raised, as to form an elevated border round the transparent cornea. This state was often accompanied with redness of the skin round the eye,; which sometimes extended to a considera- ble distance, and resembled, in colour, and form, very much what takes place in the cow-pox pus- tule, between the 9th and 12th days after in- oculation. “ When the purulent discharge was consider- able, there was a swelling of the external eyelids, which often prevented the patient from opening them for several days. The discharge also fre- quently excoriated the cheeks as it trickled down. Exposure to light caused pain. When light was excluded, and the eye kept from motion, pain was seldom much complained of. n These symptoms in many subsided, without much aid from medicine, in 10, 12, or 14 days; leaving the eye for a considerable time in an irritable state. In several, however, the disease continued for a rnucli longer time, and ulccia- tion took place on the internal surface of the eyelids, and in different parts on the eyeball. If one of those small ulcers happened to be situ. [ a led on the transparent cornea, it generally, on' i healing, left a white speck, which, however, iy t the young subjects, under our care, was coni, j monlv soon removed. In some few instances, ! an abscess took place in the substance of the j eyeball, which, bursting externally, produced . irrecoverable blindness.” (/\ M1-Gregor, i„ Frans, of a Society for the I'.nprovcmcnt of j Med. and Clururg. Knowledge, Vol. 3, p. St— 40.) When the local symptoms had prevailed two or three days, some febrile disturbance occurred • but, except in severe cases, it was scarcely ob- servable. Mr. M'Gregor considered this oplithalmy to be of the same nature as that, which has raged with I such violence iu the army at different periods, since the return of our troops from Egypt in s 1800, 1801, and 1802. However, he has found, I that its consequences have not been so injurious I to children as to adults; for, out of the great I number of children, that were afflicted with the : disease at the Military Asylum, only six lost f the sight of both eyes, and twelve the sight of f one eye. ( Op. cit. p. 49.) On the othe/hand, Dr. Vetch informs us, that, in the second bat- talion of the 52d regiment, which consisted of somewhat, more than 700 men, 636 cases of ophthalmia were admitted into the hospital be- I tween August, 1805, and August, 1806; and . that “of this number, fifty were dismissed with the loss of botli eyes, and forty with that of one.” And us Mr. M‘Gregor observes, it is a melan- choly fact, as appears from the returns of Chel- sea and Kilmainham Hospitals, that 2317 sol- diers were on the 1st of December, 1810, a ; burthen upon the public, from blindness in con- ' sequence of ophthalmia. The cases, in which only one eye was lost, are not here included. The attacks of the disease appear to be much more frequent, severe, and obstinate, in hot sul- try weather, than in cold, or temperate seasons. (P. MLGregor, op. cit. p. 37, 54, djc.) This gentleman also observed, that the ophthal- ; my was more severe and protracted in per- sons having red hair, or a scrophulous hubit, than iu others. The right eye was more fre- j quently and violently affected, than the left. In females, the symptoms are greatly aggravated for some days previous to tne catamenia; but, ; on this evacuation taking place, they are quickly lessened. Mr. M'Gregor further remarks, that the measles, cow-pox, and mumps, go through their course as regularly in persons affected with this species of ophthalmia, its when no other dis- ease is present; a circumstance which, with some others, proves that the disorder is entirely local. (P. 54, 55.) With respect to the causes of the Egyptian Purulent Oplithalmy, much difference of opi- nion has prevailed, and, indeed, there was a time, when the disease was regarded by the majority of army surgeons, who alone had opportunities of judging of it, as not being in reality conta- gious, but dependent upon local epidemic causes; the irritation of sand ; peculiarity of climate, Sfc. The late Mr. Ware even doubted the pro- priety of calling this oplithalmy Egyptian, and he contended that a disease precisely similar in its symptoms and progress had been noticed long