DISLOCATION. 370 placed in one of tiiese three directions, the head of the humerus often changes its position; and t lien, to a primitive luxation, downward, or in- ward, a consecutive one succeeds. But, it con- secutive could never follow a primitive disloca- tion outward, were this ever met with, as the ■spine of the scapula would form an obstacle. A consecutive luxation inward may succeed a primitive one downward : indeed, nothing resists the head ol the humerus, in the course which it then follows to get between the fossa subscapu- laris and the muscle similarly named. On the contrary, should it tend outward, it is opposed by the tendon of the triceps, and notwithstand- ing what Petit has written, Desault believed that a consecutive dislocation in this direction never happens. Sometimes, after the head of the bone has es- caped from the internal or inferior part of the capsule, it is carried behind the clavicle, forming a case of consecutive dislocation upward; a specimen of which was preserved in Desault’s museum. But, here, the secondary displacement only takes place slowly, and, when it occurs, a reduction can rarely be effected, on account of the strong adhesions, contracted by the surfaces of the bone. Thus, in the specimen referred to, a new cavity was formed behind the clavicle, and the humerus adhered by new kinds of ligaments to the surrounding parts. The humerus then is subject to four kinds of dis- location. 1. Downward. 2. Outward. In these two directions the accident is always primitive. 3. Inward, which is sometimes primitive, some- times consecutive. 4. Upward; a case which can never occur, except as a consecutive one. The second and fourth cases are so very rare in comparison with the others, that they alone claim attention. CAUSES. The action of external bodies, directed against the arm ; but, particularly, falls, in which this part is forced against a resisting body, gives rise to primitive dislocations, and then the different species of the accident are determined, by the particular position of the humerus at the instant, when the injury takes place. Should this bone be raised from the side, with- out being carried either forward, or backward; should the elbowbe elevated, and the fall take place on the side, then the weight of the trunk, almost entirely supported by this bone, forces downward its upper part, which stretches and lacerates the lower part of the capsular ligament. Thus a luxa- tion downward is produced, and its occurrence may also be facilitated by the combined action of the latissimus dorsi, pectoralis major, and teres major, muscles, as Fabre has judiciously remarked; for being at this period involuntarily contracted to support the trunk, they act with the power of a considerable lever; the resistance being the head of the bone, which they draw down- ward. while the fixed point is the lower end of the bone, resting against the ground. Some authors also consider, as the immediate cause of a dislocation downward, the strong action of the deltoid, which is supposed to depress the head of the bone, and push it downward through the capsular ligament. Certain observations seem incontestably to establish this mode of disloea- I tion. Bichat mentions the well-known ease of a notary, who luxated his arm downward, in lifting up a register. The rationale of the primitive luxation inward | differs very little from that of the preceding case. ! 'I he elbow is both separated from the side, and carried backward: in falling, the w’eight of the body acts on the humerus, the front part of the capsule is lacerated, and a luxation takes place j in this direction. The dislocation outward is produced in the same sort of way. The elbow is carried forward, towards the opposite shoulder; the capsule is stretched outward, and if a sufficient force act || on the limb, it is lacerated. But, how could such a force arise? In a fall, the arm being | pushed against the trunk, and kept there, cannot move extensively enough to cause such a lacera- tion. Hence, a luxation outward must necessarily I be exceedingly rare, and Desault, in all his ex- perience, never saw such an accident. Besides, when, in a fall, the arm is raised from the side, and i I inclined forward or backward, the weight of the [I body only operates upon it obliquely, and the I limb is very little exposed to the action of the latissimus dorsi, pectoralis major, and teres major II muscles. A few instances of a dislocation of the 9 head of the humerus outward, however, have j| been recorded. In a dead subject, Boyer re- l marked a singular inclination of the glenoid cavity j backwards, its articular surface, also, presenting il on this side an extraordinary elongation, and the j humerus readily slipping under the spine of the j scapula. (Truitt? ties Mol. dvr. T. 4, p. 176.) J In the patient, whose history was published < j by M. Fizeau, and in whom a dislocation of the fi humerus outwards and backwards, was seen both by that gentleman and Boyer, there was also Jj the particularity, that the luxation was readily ||1 reproduced. (Journ. de Med. par Corvisart, &tc. j T. 10. p. 336.) Hence, Boyer suspects, that this very rare 1ft kind of displacement must have been facilitated by some preternatural disposition of the articular ' surfaces, especially that .of the glenoid Cavity. . No dislocation must occur more frequently, than J: thatdownward, in which theinfluenceofiheweight ;§ j of the body, and of the action of the muscles, if is direct. The luxation inward, however, is com- i f mon, and a multitude of cases, seen by Desault, confirm the reality of this kind of primitive dis- U location, though doubted by several modern authors, who are disposed to think with Hip- pocrates, that all dislocations at first take place k downward. The capsule may only be stretched in a prirni- | tive luxation, and then the articular surfaces, lose their relations but imperfectly; though most j frequently, it is lacerated, and the head of the j bone passes through the rupture. Indeed, in all I primitive dislocations from violence, and not I from paralysis of the deltoid, and a gradual = yielding of the capsule, I believe the latter part i is always extensively lacerated. In generah { authors have paid too little attention to tiiis cir* 1 cumstancc, which dissections have repeatedly £ demonstrated to practitioners, and to Desault in P particular. This eminent surgeon had two speri- (■ mens made of wax; one, of a dislocation in- j ward; the other of one downward ; hot li of wide■ j