286 CATARACT. lopeit in a whitish misty halo, which always be- comes broader, the further the patient is from the light. When the cataract is far advanced, the flame of the candle cannot be so n, and the pa- tient can only indicate the place, near which the light is, or say whether it is close or at a distance. 9. Lastly, a cataract, which forms slowly, pro- duces in the course of its progress, no change in the mobility of the iris ; and, if this effect some- times takes place where the disease is very com- pletely developed the nature of the case is now so manifest, that no surgeon is in any danger of mistaking the complaint for amaurosis. The characteristic appearances of amaurosis are entirely different. 1. The opacity, percepti- ble behind the pupil, is at a considerable distance from this opening, as may be best seen when the eye is viewed sideways. 2. The opacity is some- what concave. 8. Its colour inclines rather to a greenish, or reddish cast, than to grey. 4. The decline of the eyesight is not at all in a ratio to the degree of opacity, the patient being almost blind. 5. The pupil is more or less dilated; the iris nearly or quite motionless, its pupillary edge being here and there thrown into an angle, and of course it is not exactly circular. 6'. Even the cornea itself is not quite so clear and transparent as in the natural state. 7. The temporary in- crease, or diminution of blindness, so common in patients with incomplete amaurosis, never depends, as in those with cataract's, upon the de- gree of dilatation of the pupil, or the degree of light, but upon causes, which tend either to de- press, or excite the system. 8. The misty halo, which such amaurotic patients perceive around the flame of a candle, is not like a whitish cloud, but has all the hues of the rainbow : indeed, the flame itself presents these colours, and when the patient goes to some distance from it, it generally seems split. 9. At no period of the complaint are spectacles of any service in enabling the pa- tient to see better. 10. Lastly, such objects as are situated to one side, cannot be seen more plainly, than those which are directly in front of the eye. (See Seer’s Lelvre von den Augenkr. B. 2. p. 281—284.) According to this author, the first and most important division of cataract is into the genuine and spurious; for the obstacle to vision, situated in the posterior chamber, between the vitreous humor and the uvea, and making what is termed a cataract, may be either within the limit of the capsule of the lens, or between the anterior layer of that capsule and the uvea. The first case is the genuine ; the second, the spurious cataract. A genuine cataract, when a primary disease, and unattended from the first with other morbid effects in the eye, is mostly a single independent affection; on the contrary, as the spurious cata- ract is generally the consequence of internal ophthalrny, it is almost always more or less com- bined with a partial opacity of the anterior layer of the capstde, and, of course, with a genuine ca- taract. The first variety of genuine cataract, noticed by Beer, is that which he calls lenticular; it al- ways begins in the centre, or very nucleus of the lens, mostly presenting a very dull yellowish-grey colour, which is somewhat deeper at the centre, than at the margin of the pupil; a character re- tained even when the disease is in its most com- plete stage. The denticular cataract is always formed very slowly, and except when the iris is too dark coloured, it is more or less attended with a blackish ring at the edge of the pupil, which ring becomes plainer as the disease advances. A ge- nuine lenticular cataract never causes any altera- tion in the expansion or contraction of the iris; nor does it even in its highest degree deprive the patient of all power of vision, the patient in shady places, or when the pupil is artificially dilated with hyosciamus, being often capable of distin- guishing pretty well many objects, which are placed laterally with respect to the eye. A len- ticular cataract also is usually at some distance from the uvea, so that the extent of the posterior chamber is manifest, while the opacity presents more or less of a convex appearance, and never that of very white cloudy specks. Frequently, as Beer observes, the lenticular cataract is unattend- ed with any change in the capsule, or the liquor of Morgagni. In most cases of senile cataract, not preceded by inflammation, the capsule is said to remain transparent. (Trovers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 207. 8v". Land. 1820.) The second species of genuine cataract, noticed by Beer, is the capsular, which he thinks should not be called membranous, as the expression may lead to mistake. The disease seldom commences in the centre of the pupil, and usually arises at its margin in the form of distinct, very white, shining points, streaks, or specks ; its colour, therefore, is always very light, and never altogether uniform, even when the disease is completely formed. The dotted, or mottled appearance of this cataract, is also particularly noticed by Mr. Travers. (Sy- nopsis of the Diseases of the Ei/e, p 207.) The blackish ring, which when the iris is light co- loured, is even more evident in this, than the lenticular cataract, is here not owing to the sha- dow of the iris, but to its dark border; for this cataract is too near the iris for any shadow to be formed. This observation, however, is somewhat at variance with what Mr. Travers has remarked; for, when a transparent circumference can be seen on dilating the pupil with belladonna, Mr. Tra- vers has never found the capsule opaque; and he believes, that the black rim may be considered as the diagnostic mark of the transparency of the capsule. But, where the opacity of the lens is diffused, this sign is of course absent. (Med. Chir. Trans. V"l. 4, p. 288.) The disease also has some effect on the motions of the iris, at least, their quickness. A capsular cataract never re- mains long the only affection, but is followed by disease of the lens itself; a fact, says Beer, which cannot surprize us, when we consider, that it is through the medium of the capsule, that the particles of the lens are incessantly undergoing the changes of removal and reproduction The capsular cataract is subdivided by Beer into the anterior capsular cataract; the posterior capsular cataract; and the complete capsular ca- taract, in which both the front and back portions of this membrane are opaque. The anterior capsular ca'aract, which is not at ail unfrequent, does not continue long in this form after it has attained a high degree, but, ac- cording to Beer, becomes combined with an opa- city, and, according to Mr. Travers, with a slow absorption of the lens itself. (Synopsis, Sfr, V- 207.j “When the capsule is completelyopaqtle.