GON ' dissolved in eight ounces of water, are a very good irritating injection. In irritable habits, such an application may do great harm, and therefore, if possible, the capability of the parts to bear its employment, should first be made out. Bougies sometimes act violently, but Mr. Hunter thought them more efficacious, than in- jections A simple unmedicated one is generally sufficient, and must be used a month or six weeks, before the cure can be depended upon. Those medicated with camphor, or turpentine, need not be used so long. The bougie should be under the common size. Mr. Hunter has known a gleet-disappear on the breaking out of two chancres on the glans. Gleets have also been cured by a blister on the under-side of the urethra; and, by electricity. In every plan of cure, rest, or quietness, is generally of great consequence; but, after the failure of the usual modes, riding on horseback will sometimes immediately effect a cure. Regularity and moderation in diet are to be observed. Intercourse with women often causes a return, or increase of gleet; and, in such cases, it gives suspicion of a fresh infection ; but the difference, between this and a fresh infection, is, that here the return is almost immediately after the con- nexion. Gleets in women, are cured nearly in the same manner as those of men. Turpentines, however, have no specific effect on the vagina; and the astringent injections used may also be stronger, than those intended for male patients. See A Treatise m the Venereal Disease, by Juhn Hunter, Ed. 2. Also, Sjj’ediaw’s Practical Observation* on Venereal Complaints. GLOSSOCATOCHUS. (from the tongue; and xarzyw, to depress.) The ancient glossocatochus was a sort cf forceps, one of the blades of which served to depress the tongue, while the oilier was applied under the chin. GO I IRE. See Brmch< ctle. GONORRHCEA. (from yov*j, the semen; and o w, to flow.) Etymologically, an involuntary discharge of the semen; but always, according to modern surgery, a discharge of a purulent in- fectious matter, from the urethra in the male, and from the vagina and surfaces of the labia, nymphae, clitoris, &c. in the female subject. Dr. Swediaur, after censuring the etymo- logical import, as conveying an erroneous idea, says, if a Greek name is to be retained, he would call it blennorrhagia, from f&Um*, mucus, and f»w, to How. However, as most of the moderns consider the discharge as pus, not mucus, the etymological import of blennorhaea is as ob- jectionable as that of gonorrhoea. In English, the disease is commonly called a clap, from the old l'rench word ctopiscs, which were public shops, kept and inhabited by single prostitutes, and . generally confined to a particular quarter of the town, as is even now the case in several of the great towns in Italy. In German, the disorder is named a tripper, from dripping; and in French, a chaudrp/tfe, from the heat and scalding in making water. {Swediaur.) Wesliall first present the reader with some of r» Hunter s opinions, concerning the nature Konorihoea,its symptoms, and treatment; and, y’ . e notice of the observations of some other writers. GON ‘ 515 When an irritating matter of any kind is applied to a secreting surface, it increases that secretion, and changes it from its natural state to some other. In the present instance, it is changed from mucus to pus. fiill about the year 1753, it was generally supposed, that the matter from the urethra, in cases or gonorrhoea, arose from ulcers in the pas- sage ; but, about that time, it was ascertained, that pus could be secreted without a breach of substance. It was first accidentally proved, by dissection, that pus could be formed in the bag of the pleura, without ulceration; and Mr. Hun- ter afterwards examined the urethra of male- factors and others, who were executed, or died, while known to be affected with gonorrhoea, and demonstrated, that the canal was entirely free from every appearance of ulcer. The time, when a gonorrhoea first appears, after infection, is extremely various. It gene- rally comes on sooner, than a chancre. Mr. Hunter had reason to believe, that, in some instances, the disease began in a few hours; while in others, six weeks previously elapsed; but he had known it begin at all the intermedi- ate periods. However, it was his opinion, that about six, eight, ten, or twelve days after infec- tion, is the most common period. The surface of the urethra is subject to in- flammation and suppuration, from various other causes besides the venereal poison; and some- times discharges happen spontaneously, when no immediate cause can be assigned. Such may be called simple gonorrhoea, having nothing of the venereal infection in them. Mr. Hunter knew of cases, in which the ure- thra sympathized with the cutting of a tooth, and all the symptoms of a gonorrhoea were produced. This happened several times to the same patient. The urethra is known to be sometimes the seat of the gout; and Mr Hunter was acquainted with instances of its being the seat of rheumatism. When a secreting surface has once received the inflammatory action, its secretions are increased and visibly altered. Also, when irritation has produced inflammation, and an ulcer in the solid parts, a secretion of matter takes place, the intention of which, in both, seems to be to wash away the irritating matter. But, in inflammations, arising from specific, or mor- bid poisons, the irritation cannot be thus gofrid of; for, although the first irritating matter be washed away, yet, the new matter has the same quality as the original had; and there- fore, upon the same principle, it would produce a perpetual source of irritations, even if the vene- real inflammation, like many olheNspecific dis- eases, were not what it really is, kept up by the specific quality of the inflammation itself. This inflammation seems, however, to be only capable of lasting a limited time, the symptoms, peculiar to it, vanishing of thenlselves by the parts be- coming less and less susceptible of irritation ; and the subsequent venereal matter can have no power of continuing the original irritation; foe otherwise there would be no end to the disease. The time, which the susceptibility ol the irrita- tion lasts, must depend upon the difference in the constitution, and not upon any difference in the poison itself. The venereal disease only ceases spontano- ottslv, when it attacks a secreting surface, and L L 2