FRACTURES. 467 possibly propose the removal of a limb, until it be found, by sufficient trial',’ that there is no prospect of obtaining a cure without; and that, bv not performing the operation, the patient’s strength and life will be exhausted by the dis- charge. When this becomes the hazard, the sooner amputation is performed the better. In the first instance, the operation ought to take place before inflammatory mischief is incurred; in the second, we are to wait for a kind of crisis of such inflammation ; in the third, the propor- tional strength and state of the patient, com- pared with the discharge and state of the frac- ture, must form our determination.’’ (Pott's Remarks un Fractures.) 6. Of the Formatim of Callus, the Consolidation of Fractures, and of the Cases in which they remain without Union. In the treatment of fractures, the whole busi- ness of the surgeon consists in putting the dis- placed extremities of the bone into their natural situation again; in keeping them in this situa- tion by means of -a suitable apparatus; in en- deavouring to avert unfavourable symptoms, and in adopting measures for their removal, when they have actually occurred. The consolidation oi a broken bone is (strictly speaking) the work of nature, and is effected by a process, to which a state of perfect health is above all things pro- pitious. This consolidation of a broken bone, which is analogous to the union of wounds of the soft parts, is termed theformation of the callus, and the new uniting bony substance itself is named callus. 1. 0/ the Time requisite for the Formation of the Callus, and of general Circumstances, which favour, retard, or even completely prevent it. Surgical writers have been absurdly anxious to specify a determinate space of time, which should be allowed for the formation of the callus, as if this process always went on in different cases with the same uninterrupted regularity. Forty •days were often fixed upon as necessary for the purpose. This prejudice is not only false, but dangerous, inasmuch as patients have been there- by induced to suppose themselves cured, before they were so in reality, and have consequently moved about too boldly, and thus run the risk of occasioning deformity, or anew fracture. As Boyer observes, it is impossible to determine precisely, and in a general way, the period re- quisite for the cure, because it differs according to a variety of circumstances. All we know is, that the callus is usually formed between the twentieth and seventieth day, sooner, or later, according to the age and constitution of the pa- tient, the thickness of the bone, the weight which it has to support, the state of the patient’s health, «c. 1 • Age. Fractures are consolidated f ceteris pm thus) with more ease and quickness in young subjects, than in adults, or old persons. In ge- ccased, yet remains unsettled. Were the patient a sound constitution, and not too far gone, I •mu not fear to imitate Larrey, and amputate, mug i the mortification were actually in a spreading state. nernl also the callus forms more speedily in pro- portion as the individual approaches to infancy. In two children, whose arms had been broken in difficult labours, De la Motte saw the humerUs united in twelve days, by a very simple appara- tus. In fact, at this period of life, every part has a tendency to grow and develop itself, and the vitality of the bones is more active, their vascu- larity greater, their gelatinous substance more abundant. On the contrary, in advanced age, the parts have lost all disposition to develope- ment, the vascularity of the bones is in a great measure obliterated, and (to use the expression of Boyer) their vitality is annihilated under the mass of phosphate of lime, which accumulates in them. It has been asserted, that, in early infancy, the callus is generally produced in excess, and may cause deformity by its redundance. But, ex- perience does not confirm the truth of this state- ment. The real cause of deformity always pro- ceeds from the fracture either being badly set, or not kept properly reduced, or else from the part being moved about before the callus lias acquired a due degree of firmness. 2. Cimstitution. A fracture is united much sooner, in a strong healthy person, than a weak unhealthy subject. Sometimes, the consolida- tion is prevented by some inexplicable unknown cause, nothing wrong being remarkable either in the constitution, or the part. Ruysch and Van Swieten met with several cases of this kind, in which the patients were apparently quite healthy and judiciously treated. 3. Thickness of the Bone, and weight which it has to support. The bones are thicker and larger, in proportion as they have a greater weight to bear, and as the muscles inserted into them, are more powerful. It is observed, ccoteris paribus, that the larger the bones are, the longer is the time requisite for their union. Thus, a broken thigh-bone is longer in growing together again, than a fractured tibia ; the tibia longer than the humerus, the bones of the fore-arm, clavicle, ribs, &c. As the callus remains a good while softer, than the rest of the bone, it follows, that if the newly united bone has to bear all the weight of the body in walking, the patient should defer this exercise longer. Hence one reason, why frac- tures of the arm are sooner cured than those of the tibia, and why six or seven weeks at least are necessary in the treatment of a broken thigh- bone, which of itself has to support in progres- sion all the weight of the trunk. 4. State of Health. Fractures unite with more quickness and facility, when the patient en- joys good health. The scurvy has a manifest and powerful effect in retarding the consolidation of fractures, and even in causing the absorption of the callus several years after its formation, so that a bone becomes flexible again at the point, where it was formerly broken. In Lord Anson’s Voyage, tins’ phenomenon is particularly re- corded. (Seep. 142, Fdit. 15 in 8vo.) Lang- enbeck is acquainted with several cases, in which the callus at the end of eight weeks became again soft, and the bone flexible, in consequence of the patients being attacked with fevers, or ery- sipelas. (A’ene Bdd. B. 1, P• 90.) Cancer, lues venerea, and rickets, are also stated by sur- II H 2 ■■•■mm