776 LITHOTOMY. not being raised enough above the level of the staff, to penetrate sufficiently the substance of the prostate gland, and consequently to divide it to a proper depth ; but, because being too much turned upwards, at that part of it, which is to lay open the base of the prostate gland, it does not divide it laterally, but rather at its upper part, towards the summit of the ramus of the ischium, and the arch of the pubes; an opening, of all others, in the perinaeum, the most confined, and presenting the greatest impediment to the pas- sage of the stone from the bladder. The breadth of the point of the director is, besides, so dis- proportionate to the diameter of the membranous part of the urethra, that, from the great resist- ance, with which it meets, the instrument may easily-slip from the groove of the staff, and pass between the bladder and rectum, a serious ac- cident, which has very often happened even in the hands of experienced surgeons. Scarpa considers all the modifications of Hawkins’s gorget, proposed by B. Bell, De- sault, Cline, and Cruikshanks, as deteriorations of the original instrument. B. Bell (he observes) lias diminished the breadth of the director, but has given the cutting edge an horizontal di- rection. The horizontal direction of the cutting edge is also preferred by Desault, Cline, and Cruikshanks; but, they have enlarged the di- rector, and flattened the part, which was pre- viously concave. Aware of the danger of wound- ing the pudic artery, by the horizontal direction of the gorget, they direct the handle of the staff to be inclined towards the patient’s right groin, and the gorget to be pushed along it, inclined in such a manner, that its obtuse edge may be di- rected towards the rectum, and its cutting edge placed at a sufficient distance from the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium to avoid wounding the artery. Scarpa contends, however, that it is -dif- ficult to give a proper degree of obliquity to the staff, and that such inclination of the instrument must be incommodious, arbitrary, and unstable, in comparison with that position of it, in which the handle of the staff is held in a line per- pendicular to the body of the patient, and its concavity placed against the arch of the pubes; on which stability of the instrument (says Scarpa) the safety and precision of the lateral operation depend. According to this eminent professor, the defects of Hawkins’s original gorget arise from the excessive breadth of the director, par- ticularly at the point; the want of sufficient elevation of the cutting edge, above the level of the groove of the staff, and the uncertain inclina- tion of the edge to the axis of the urethra and prostate gland. The cervix of the urethra, in a man between thirty and forty years of age, is only three lines in diameter at the apex of the prostate gland, four lines in its centre, and five near the orifice of the bladder. The apex of the prostate gland is rather more than two lines in thickness, the body or centre four, and the base six and sometimes eight, which surrounds the orifice of the bladder. In an adult of middle stature, from eighteen to twenty years of age, the thickness of the base of the prostate gland is about two lines less, compared with that of a man of forty, and of a large size, i he precise line in which the lateral incision of the prostate gland should be made in an adult, (says Scarpa) is found to* be inclined to the longitudinal axis <J the cervix of the urethra, and of the gland itself, at an angle of 69°. Now, from these data, drawn from the structure of the parts, Scarpa makes the director of his gorget only four lines broad, and two deep; the breadth decreasing at the beak. The cutting edge of the instrument is straight near its point, but gradually rises, and becomes convex above the level of the staff, so that its greatest convexity is seven lines broad. Lastly; the inclination of the cutting edge to the longitudinal axis of the director, is exactly at an angle of 69°; that is to say, the same as the left side of the prostate gland to the longitudinal axis of the neck of the urethra. (See Scarpa's Memoir on Hawkins's Gorget; transl. by Mr. Briggs, p. 12, 17.) For nearly twenty j'ears past, the instrument- makers in London have been in the habit of selling a gorget, which Mr. Abernethy first had constructed, and which in the particularity of having its cutting edge turned up at an angle of 45° bears much analogy to the instrument lately recommended by Scarpa. The cutting edge is straight, and that useless and dangerous part of a gorget, sometimes called the shoulder, is re- moved. Admitting that the principles of the lateral operation, as inculcated by Scarpa, are correct, and of which I shall presently speak, it appears to me, that Mr. Abernethy’s gorget is far preferable to that very recently proposed bv Scarpa. Its edge is not so immoderately turned up, _ and it will enter with more ease, and less risk of slipping from the staff, because it has not any projecting shoulder, which, while the staff is firmly held with the beak of the gorget in it, can have no other effect but that of ob- structing the passage of the last instrument. Gorgets, which cut on both sides, have also been sometimes employed in England, and as a larger opening can be obtained by them, even without trespassing the limits of the incision, fixed by Scarpa, that is to say, without cutting any part of the body of the bladder, they appear to promise utility, especially when the stone is suspected to be large. However, they are less used now, than they were some years ago, when Sir Astley Cooper employed them in Guy’s Hospital; but I am unacquainted with the par- ticular reasons of this change. Some criticisms on Scarpa’s method of ope- rating, and a few remarks on the size and di- rection of the lateral incision, will be found in a subsequent section of the present article. As inflammation of the bladder and peri- toneum is the principal danger of this opera- tion, and, under an equal degree of injury and violence, is most likely to happen in a plethoric subject, it has been a question, whether vene- section should not be practised a day or two be- fore the patient is operated upon, supposing that his age and weakness form n^ prohibition. The chief reason, which prevents the common ob- servance of this practice is, that a great deal of blood is sometimes lost in the operation itself. But, when this has not happened, and the pa- tient is young and strong, and particularly when the operation has been tedious, and the bladder has suffered a good deal, 1 am dispnscil to think