1148 VENEREAL DISEASE. turns into an ulcer. The parts become affected with a th ickening, which at first, while of the true venereal kind, is very circumscribed ; not diffusing itself, as Mr. Hunter observes, gradu- ally and imperceptibly into the surrouuding parts; but terminating rather abruptly. Its base is hard, and the edges a little prominent. When it begins on the fnenum, or near it, that part is is very commonly wholly destroyed, or a hole is often made through it by ulceration. Mr. Hun- ter thought it better, in general, under the latter circumstance, to divide the part at once. When the venereal matter is applied to the body of the penis, or front of the scrotum, where the cuticle is thicker than that of the glans penis and prepuce, the chancre generally makes its appearance in the form of a pimple, which com- monly forms a scab, in consequence of evapora- tion. The first scab is generally rubbed off; after which, a second, still larger one is produced. When the disease is more advanced, it is often attended with inflammation peculiar to the ha- bit, becoming in many instances more diffused, and often producing phymosis, and paraphymo- sis. However, says Mr. Hunter, there is yet a hardness around the sores, which is peculiar to such as are caused by the venereal virus, par- ticularly those on the prepuce. Mr. Carmichael, also, in his arrangement of primary ulcers on the penis, considers the true chancre, as being particularly distinguished by its hardened base, which he compares to a piece of cartilage under the skin. It is to be observed, however, that Mr. Carmichael, by the true chan- cre, or primary syphilitic ulcer, does not signify that it is the only sore, from which secondary symptoms may arise; but, his observations lead Jiim to regard it as the cause of such constitu- tional effects, as belong to what he deems the true form of syphilis, or that, in which the use of mercury is the most decidedly indicated. It would give me sincere pleasure to find any agree- ment on this part of the subject, amongst other observers. The reader, indeed, must already know, that the hardened base, which both Hun- ter and Carmichael have regarded as a distin- guishing character of a true chancre, is not found to be so by other gentlemen, who have most impartially investigated this point. Thus, Dr. Ilennen observes, “ we are not in possession of the knowledge of any invariable characteristic symptoms, by which to discriminate the real nature of the primary sore, and we are equally at a loss in many of the secondary symptoms. I am well aware, that some practitioners have assumed to themselves the possession of a “ tactus erudi- tus,” by which they can at once distinguish a chancre, or a venereal ulcer, or eruption, in which mercury is indispensable, from one of a different nature; but I have seen too many in- stances of self-deception to give them all the credit that thev lay claim to. It would be by no means difficult to shew, that the high round edge, the scooped or excavated sore, the pre- ceding pimple, the loss of substance, the hard- ened base and edge, whether circumscribed or diffused, and the tenaciously adhesive discharge of a very fetid odour, are all observable in certain states and varieties of sores, unconnected with application of escharotics to the glans, or penis, of a sound person, and, if any ulceration, or warty excrescence, previously exists on these parts, this effect is still more easily produced.’’ (On Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 517.) Now, if it be asked, whether the chancre with a hard- ened base, and prominent edge, is distinguished by its not admitting of cure, without mercury? and by any regularity or peculiarity in the nature of secondary symptoms, when they originate from such an ulcer? modern experience denies the validity of both these criteria. If Mr. Rose’s excellent paper be consulted, the reader will see, that this gentleman has certainly cured, without the aid of mercury, ulcers, which had a decidedly marked induration of the margins and bases, by which the syphilitic chancre, according to Mr. Carmichael, is easily distinguished. (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, 421, <|-c.; also, Guthrie, Vol. cit.p. 576.) And, as for the other points, suf- ficient evidence has already been detailed in the foregoing columns to satisfy any impartial mind, that, as far as the eye can teach us, no kind of primary sore has yet been satisfactorily proved to be the cause of only one set of peculiar con- stitutional symptoms; but on the contrary, that a great variety of appearances in the skin, throat, «SLc. may fellow sores, which, as far as external characters are concerned, seem exactly alike. The only partial exception to this remark, is the great frequency of papular eruptions after super- ficial sores ; a point, on which both Mr. Carmi- chael and Mr. Rose agree, though the latter gen- tleman does not represent even this connexion as constant. Mr. Hunter computed, that-claps occur more frequently, than chancres, in the pro- portion of four or five to one: I am not prepared to offer any opinion on this calculation, in refer- ence either to chancres, as defined by that inter- esting writer, or under the more comprehensive view of them, to which the results of modern investigations would lead. One intelligent writer, however, has observed, that present experience does not justify Air. Hunter’s conclusion, re- specting the infrequency of chancre compared with gonorrhoea. (J. Bacot, Ohs. on Syphilis, p. 54.) Yet, in Dublin, if Air. Carmichael’s statement be correct, the frequency of gonor- rhoea, as compared with that of what is some- times termed the true venereal chancre, must be so great as to defy all computation ; for he in- forms us, that since the descriptions of the suc- cess of the non-mercurial practice fell into his hands, he has been anxious to ascertain, by per- sonal observation, whether true syphilitic chan- cres did really admit of being cured without mercury; but, says he, “this disease, as de- scribed by Hunter, has diminished in so extra- ordinary a degree in this country, that, strange to say, I have from that period met with only one case of true chancre.” (Observations on the Symptoms, S^c. of Venereal Diseases, p 14.) As this chancre remained stationary a month, it was thought proper to employ mercurial frictions, and it then soon healed, leaving a callosity which continued two months longe^. However, after the above passage was written, Air. Carmichael met with two cases of “ well marked chancre,” each of which was attended with psoriasis syphili-