390 D1S DUIl head of the bone naturally connected to the os eye-lashes incline inward, and cause a good deal of naviculare, projected inwards and somewhat up- disturbance to the eye, already in a state of in- wards, being drawn in this direction by the action flammntion. This disorder cannot properly be ot the tibialis anticus muscle. In neither in- called distichiasis. However it maybe, all writers stance was the reduction accomplished ; and, in recommend plucking out such eve-lashes, as as- one, the patient had so trivial a lameness, that sume an unnatural direction. Some of the hairs the functions of the foot were expected to be in time perfect again. (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 209.) The phalanges of the toes are sometimes dis- located, and the first bone of the great toe is fre- quently luxated from the first metatarsal bone; but, I am not aware, that these cases are attended with any particular difficulty in the reduction, like some dislocations of the thumb. On the subject of Dislocations, consult A. Flach.dcLuxatione Ossisfemc)risrarinre,frequcn- tiore callifraclnra, Disp. Argent. 1723. H. Lin- guel, Quccstio, <$-c. An in Humeri luxatinve ambe patius quam seala, Janua, Polyspastusqiie iterato r novata? Paris, 1732. G. C. Reichtl, Piss, de Epiphysium ab Ossium Diaphysi Diductione, Lips. 1759. J. L. Petit, Trait6 des Maladies des Os, 1725, et TraiU des Mai. Chir. 1783 ; Duverney Traits des Maladies des Os. Lemons sur les Mala- dies des Os redigees en un Truitt coinplet de ces Maladies par llicherand, Tom. 2. liicherand Nosographie Chirurgicale, Tom. 3, p. 193, <Sfr. Edit. 4. (Euvres Chir. de Desault, par Bichat, Tom. 1. Pott’s Remarks an Fractures and Dislo- cations, 1775 ; Kirkland’s Observations upon Mr. Pott’sGeneral Remarks on Fractures, Xc. White’s Cases in Surgery. Medical Observations and In- quiries, Vol. 2. Broinjield’s Chirurgical Cases and Observations, 1773. J. F. P. Castella, Sur les Fractures du Perone; Landsliut, 1S08. C. Bell, A System of Operative Surgery, 1809. J. Plow- ship, Pract. Obs. in Surgery, and Morbid Ana- tomy, 8vo. Lend. 1816. Callisen, Systema Chi- rurgice Hodiernal, Tom. 2. Desault Journal de Chirurgie. Boyer TraiU des Mai. Chir. T. 4, Paris, 1814. Trye’s Illustrations of some of the Injuries to which the lower limbs are exposed, 30. W. Hey, on Dislocations and internal Derangement of the Knee-joint, in Pract, Obs. in Surgery, Ed. 2. Dupuytren, Sur la Fracture de L’ Extremity in- ferieure du perone, les luxations, et les accidens, cjui en sent la suite, in Annuairc Medico-Chir. des Hnpitaux de Paris, 4to. Paris, 1819. The ob- servations in this memoir ure highly interesting, and afford new and instructive views of the subject. G. F. D. Evans, Pract. Obs. on Cataract, closed Pupil, Amp. at the Shoulder, difc. and Compound Dislocations, 8vn. Wellington, 1815. Astragalus removed; shattered end of the fibula sawn of; protruded lower end if the humerus similarly re- moved; acompounddisloealiun of the slwulder-jaint; and head of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, dis- located, in two instances towards the palm, and, on account of the difficulty of reduction, exposed by aninewon, and saum off. DISTJCIIIA, or msTiCHiAsis. (from fir, twice, and a row.) Gorrhaeus, Heister, and St. Ives, apply this term to an affection, in which each tarsus has a double row of eye-lashes, which, inclining inward, irritate the eye, and keep up ophthalmy. Such authors speak of this, as a very frequent complaint; but, the author of the pre- sent article in the Encyclopedic Methodiqnc, /’m - tie Chirurgicalr, remarks, that he has never met with it at all, though, in ulceration of the eve- Jids, he has often seen a certain number of the are first to be taken out one after the other, and a few days are allowed to elapse before the opera- tion is repeated. In order that the eye-lashes may be more completely extirpated, and that others may not grow in the same situation, the places from which they grow are usually touched with the argentum riitratum. (See Trichiu- j sis.) DURA MATER, FUNGOUS TUMORS OF. The dura mater, the outer membrane of 1 the brain, was so named by the ancients, on ac- count of its hardness, and its being formerly sup- I posed to be the source of all the other membranes I of the body. Fungous tumors of the dura mater, the true I nature of which was ascertained late in the last ) century, did not escape the notice of the ancient I writers; but the disease is very imperfectly de- I scribed by them, and under an erroneous de- 1 nomination. They supposed, that the swelling I was of the encysted kind, or what they termed I natta, t' lpa, testudo, and that it gradually altered il and destroyed the cranium. They sometimes I mistook the fungous, or sarcomatous tumor offl the dura mater for coagulated blood, or for ill-'I conditioned excrescences, like those which makerij their appearance on ulcers attended with caries. ;! Such are the ideas, which seem to be conveyed!|J by some imperfectly detailed cases in the writingsH of Lanfranc, Guido di Cauliaco, Theodoricus,,lj and other authors of the thirteenth and fourteenth! i j centuries. Amatus Lusitanus has given the ap-tff pellation of lupus with caries to a fungous tu-jl f mor of the dura mater. The swelling occurred!* t in a child eight years old, who died in con-' ! vulsions, two days after an opening had been! ( made in it—(Centur. 5, obs. 8.) Another similar) j case, which happened in a child, and was noticed! i by Camerarius at Paris, is styled a singular bonyfc excrescence. (E'phemer. curios, natur. decad. 2J arm. 6, 1G87, obs. 99.) Lastly, Cattier, a phy-1 sician of Montpellier, has recorded the historjj* of a lad}r, who died from the consequences of at fungous tumor of the dura mater. The diseasdk was"so acutely painful, as to compel the patiem» to cry out. The swelling was opened witw caustic. Pimprenelle, a Parisian surgeon, rc-K commended the trepan to be employed; but hi»« advice was overruled. After death, a fungus o! the dura mater, with a perforation in the skull! was detected, and it is described by the autlioii as a hard, stony substance, accompanied wit* points and asperities. (Obs. Med. obs. 15, p• 48l —See Lassus, Pathologic Chirurgicale, Tom. 11 p. 498. Edit. 1809.) The old surgeons, ignorant of the real cha- , ractcr of fungous tumors of the dura mater k used often to commit the most serious and fata i mistakes in the treatment. These diseases an 1 of a chronic nature, and make their appearann 1 gradually, in the form of a tumor, which make j its way through the bones of the cranium, J,se I ii]), and insensibly blends itself with the inti j guments, which seem, as it were, to make a p*r i of it. Such fungous tumors of the dura man j may originate spontaneously at any part oi tha . j