X X EAll. 395 Chladni. (Akustik. Vo. Lei pi. 1S0'2.) Some facts, however, are admitted to he well as- certained, and the researches of Autenrieth and Kerner (Util's Arch it. fur die Physiol. T. 9, 7,, 313 .‘576’), are honourably mentioned; for, though they only elucidate the function of the conductor-part of the ear, they are of unques- tionable importance to the medical practitioner. It is clearly proved, that the difference in the length and breadth of the meatus auditorius, the form of the membrana tympani, and the make of the cavity of the tympanum, modify sound; that is to say, that the differences of structure of the auricle and meatus auditorius externus which merely receive and concentrate the sonorous un- dulations, as these emanate from a vibrating body, can only influence the degree of force, or weakness of the sound; while, on the contrary, the differences of structure in the membrane and cavity of the tympanum are not limited to this effect, but the greater or less tension of the one, and the more or less considerable capacity of the other, appear to alter in greater or lesser degree the particular character of the sound. (Journ. Cuinykm. T. 6, p. 20.) 6j ■■■ >' jj .'I '/I § '! I. Wounds and Defects of the External Ear. |) The external ear, which is a sort of instrument calculated for concentrating the undulations or waves of- sound, may be totally cut off, without deafness being the consequence. For a few days after the loss, the bearing is rather hard; but the infirmity gradually diminishes, the increased sensibility of the auditory nerve compensating for the imperfection of the organic apparatus. (liicherand Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 122, Edit. 2.) Dr. Hennen says, that he has met with a case, where the external ear was completely removed by a cannon shot, and yet the sense of hearing was as acute as ever. ( Principles of Military Sur- gery. p. :548, Ed. 2.) Another case, recorded by Wepfer, also proves, that a total loss of the auricle may not cause any material injury of hearing, for the patient of whom he speaks had had the whole of the external ear destroyed by ulceration, and yet could hear as well as before the loss. (Kriaer and Lent in Ueher das sch were Gchoer, p. 19, Lcfps. 1794.) However, if we are to credit the statement of other writers, the recovery is generally far less complete. Thus Leschevin notices, that they who have lost the external ear, or have it naturally too Hat, or ill shaped, have the hearing less fine. The defect can only be remedied by an artificial ear, or an car trumpet, which, receiving a large quantity of the sonorous undulations, and directing them towards the meatus auditorius, thus does the office of the external ear. (Pric 4e l’Acad. R-'ynle de Cliir. T. 9, p. 120, Edi'. 12mo.) Wounds are not the only causes, by which the external ear may be lost: its separation is some- times the consequence of ulceration, and some- times the efTect of the bites of horses and other animals. In cold climates, it is frequently fro- zen, and afterwards attacked with inflammation and sloughing. When the external ear is not totally separated from the head, the surgeon sho dd not despair of being able to accomplish tl,c reunion of it. This attempt should always be made, however small a connexion the part may have with the skin; for, in wounds of this kind, the efforts of surgery have occasionally succeeded beyond all expectation. Wounds of the external ear, whatever may be their size and shape, do not require different treatment from that of the generality of other wounds. The reunion of the divided part is the only indication, and it may be in most instances easily fulfilled by means of methodical dressings. Such writers, as have recommended sutures for wounds of the ear, (says Leschevin,) have founded this advice upon the difficulty of applying to the part a bandage, that will keep the edges of the wound exactly together. The cranium, however, affords a firm and equal surface, against which the external ear may be conveniently fixed. Certainly, it is not more easy to secure dressings on the nose than the ear; and, yet, cases are recorded, in which the cartilaginous part of the nose was wounded, and almost entirely separated, and the union was effected without the aid of sutures. (See Mem. de M. Pibrac sur I’Abus des Sutures, in Mem. de l'Acad, de Chir. Tom. 3.) In wounds of the ear, then, we may conclude, that sutures are generally useless and unneces- sary. As examples may occur, however, in which the wound may be so irregular and considerable as not to admit of being accurately united, ex- cept by this means, it should not be absolutely rejected. An enlightened surgeon will not abandon altogether any curative plans ; he only points out their proper utility, and keeps them within the right limits. When sticking plaster, simple dressings, and a bandage, that makes moderate pressure, appear insufficient for keeping the edges of a wound of the ear in due contact, the judicious practitioner will not hesitate to em- ploy sutures. When a bandage is applied to the external ear, it should only be put on with moderate tightness, since much pressure gives considerable uneasi- ness, and may induce sloughing. In order to prevent these disagreeable effects, Leschevin ad- vises us to fill the space behind the ear with soft wool or cotton, against which the part may be compressed without risk. ( Op. at. p. 119.) Baron Boyer remembers a medical student, who was compelled by an ulcer on the sacrum to lie for a long time on his side, in which pos- ture the pressure on the ear caused a. slough of the antihelix, and after the separation of the dead part, an aperture, large enough to receive the end of the little finger, was left in the pinna or auricle. In the application of sutures to the ear, the ancients caution us to avoid carefully the carti- lage, and to se\y only the skin. They were fear- ful, that pricking the cartilage would make it mortify, “ cc qui est souvente-fois arrive,” says Pare. But, notwithstanding so respectable an authority, as Leschevin has remarked, the mo- derns make no scruple about sewing cartilages. In wounds of th.e nose, Verduc expressly directs the skin and cartilage to be pierced at once, and the success of the plan is put out of all doubt by a multitude of facts. The same treatment may also be safely extended to the ear. Celsus, lib. K, c. 6, speaks of fractures of the cartilage of the ear; but, such an accident seems hardly possible, unless the part be previously os IM MB