728 JOINTS. extraneous matter, nor was it absorbed and taken back into the constitution, but in many instances preserved its living principle, and became vas- cular, receiving branches from the neighbouring blood-vessels for its support; it afterwards under- went changes, rendering it similar to the parts, to which it was attached, and which supplied it with nourishment. When a coaguluin adhered to a surface, which varied its position, the attach- ment was rendered in some instances pendulous, and in others it was entirely broken. Hence, it was easy to explain the mode, in which those pendulous bodies are formed, which are sometimes attached to the inside of circum- scribed cavities, and the principle being esta- blished, it became equally easy for Mr. Hunter, to apply it under other circumstances, since it is evident from a known law in the animal economy, that extravasated blood, when rendered an or- ganized part of the body, can assume the nature of the parts into which it is effused, and conse- quently, the same eoagulum, which, in another situation, might form a soft tumor, would \yhen situated on a bone, or in the neighbourhood of bone, often form a hard one. The cartilages, found in the knee-joint, therefore, appeared to him to originate from a deposit of coagulated blood upon the end of one of the bones, which had acquired the nature of cartilage, and had afterwards been separated. This opinion was further confirmed by the examination of joints which had been violently strained, or otherwise injured, where the patients had died at different periods after the accident. In some of these cases, there were small projecting parts, preter- naturally formed, as hard as cartilage, and so situated, as to be readily knocked off by any sudden, or violent motion of the joint. (Trans, far the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Know- Icdge, Vol. I.) Mr. Brodie met with two cases, however, in which the loose bodies were of a different nature, and had a different origin from that referred to by Sir K. Home. Sometimes disease causes a bony ridge to be formed, like a small exostosis, round the margin of the cartilaginous surfaces of the joint. In the two examples, alluded to, this pre- ternatural growth of bone had taken place, and in consequence of the motion of the parts, por- tions of it had been broken off, and lay loose in the cavity of the joint. (Brodie in Med. and Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 276.) And, in a more recent publication, he remarks, that, in the ma- jority of cases, which he has met with, no in- flammation preceded the formation of these pre- ternatural substances, and, therefore, he thinks it probable, that, in some instances, they are gene- rated, like other tumors, by some different process. He further observes, that they appear to be si- tuated originally either on the external surface, or in the substance of the synovial membrane, since before they become detached, a thin layer of the latter may be traced over them. (Patho- logical and Surgical Ohs. p. 2!)8.) One or more of these preternatural bodies may be formed in the same joint. Sir E. Home mentions one instance, in which there were three; they are commonly about the size of a horse- bean, often much smaller, and sometimes con- siderably larger; when very large, they do not give so much trouble to the patient as the smaller kind. A soldier of the 56th regiment had one nearly as big as the patella, which occasioned little uneasiness, being too large to insinuate it- self into the moving parts of the joint. Morgagni saw twenty-five in the left knee of an old woman, who died of apoplexy; and Haller met with no less than twenty, in the articulation of the lower jaw. When there are several in the same joint, it is observed, that their size is generally small. (Boyer,, Truitt d,s Mai. Chir. T. 4, /;. 436.) The diagnosis of this disease, as Bover ob- serves, is seldom attended with any difficulty. When the formation of the extraneous substances follows a fall, or blow, upon the joint, the com- plaint begins with a swelling of the surrounding soft parts, and upon the subsidence of this swell- ing, which lasts for a time more or less long, the presence of the little cartilaginous tumors is in- dicated by certain symptoms, which are peculiar to them. In persons, who have had no blow, nor fall upon the knee, the disease sometimes commences with a more or less acute pain in the joint, with, or without swelling of the surround- ing soft parts, and which affection is usually re- garded as rheumatism. To these first symptoms, which are common both to cases of foreign bodies in the joints, and other diseases of these parts, are .^pon added other particular signs, by which the nature of the case is evinced. As the extraneous bodies are in general free and moveable in the joint, they can easily be made to slip about from one part of the articu- lation to another: a circumstance, which is fa- cilitated by the smoothness of their surface, as well as by the synovia, which is mostly in larger quantity, than natural. According to the si- tuation, which they happen to occupy, some- times they produce acute pain; sometitnes no pain whatever. When they lodge in a depres- sion, where they are not compressed, they cause no pain; and if they could be always kept in this position, their presence would not be likely io excite any inconveniences. But, when they get between the articular surfaces, which in certain postures of the limb come into contact with each other, the following are the effects of the com- pression. Sometimes, the extraneous substance suddenly glides between the condyles of the thigh bone and head of the tibia, and, while it lodges there, excites acute pain in certain di- rections of the limb, and instantaneous loss of the power of moving the knee. But, when it shifts its place again, either naturally, or ac- cidentally, during an examination of the affected part, the compression is removed, the pain all at once ceases, and the functions of the joint are as suddenly restored. Most frequently, when the extraneous body gets behind the patella, or the ligament of the patella, as the patient is walking, he is compelled to make a sudden stop, and would fall down from the acuteness of the pain, if no- thing were at hand to save him. Some patients have been observed, however, who experienced no pain in these circumstances. Keimarus men- tions a man, who suffered great pain and cotdd not move his leg, when the extraneous body was at the side of the joint; but was immediately re- lieved by pushing it under the patella. B. Bell met with cases, in which the pain-was so violent at the instant when the patients put their legs in certain postures, that fainting,was brought on,