:558 DISLOCATION. on certain parts. The sternal end of the clavi- cle has been known to compress the trachea, and impede respiration: the head of the humerus may press upon the axillary plexus of nerves, and produce a paralytic affection of the whole arm. In one instance, cited by Mr. A. Cooper, a dislocated clavicle pressed upon the oesophagus, and endangered life. (Surg. Essays, Part 1, p. 4.) As Kirkland has observed, there are some luxations, which are far worse injuries, than frac- tures : of this description, are dislocations of the vertebra:, cases, which, indeed, can hardly happen without fracture, and are almost always fatal; dis- locations of the long bones, with protrusion of their ends through the muscles and skin, and severe inflammation, extensive abscesses, attended with great risk of being followed by large and tedious exfoliations, and not unfrequently gan- grene. According to Mr. A. Cooper, young subjects rarely experience dislocations; their bones break, or their epiphyses give way much more frequently than the articular surfaces are displaced. (Surg. Essays, Part ],p 16.) Suspected luxations of the hip in children commonly turn out to be disease of the joint, one instance of which is given by the preceding author, and an example of which I was lately consulted about myself. Also, when a dis- location of the elbow is suspected in a child, be- cause the bone appears readily to return into its place, but directly to slip out of it again, Mr. A. Cooper says, that the case is an oblique frac- ture of the condyles of the humerus. PROGNOSIS. In general, every unreduced dislocation, must deprive the patient more or less completely of the use of the limb; for, nature cannot in any of these cases re-establish the natural relations which are lost. There is indeed an effort made to re- store some of the motions, and the use of the limb in a certain degree ; but, it is always very im- perfectly accomplished, and in the best cases, only a confined degree of motion is re-established. Nature cannot in any way alter the lengthened, or shortened state of the limb ; and she can only correct in a veiy imperfect manner its faulty direction. There are even some cases, in which nature can effect no amendment whatsoever; as, for instance, complete dislocations of ginglymoid joints in the direction of the articular movements: here so great an alteration would be requisite in the surfaces in contact, and so extensive an elon- gation of the muscles, that the dislocated part must continue nearly motionless. There are, however, a few exceptions to this general rule. The arthrodia joints are seldom extensively displaced; and as, in the natural state, their motions are very limited, the loss of these motions, in consequence of the natural relations not having been restored, is of less im- portance. Thus, the bones of the carpus, those of the tarsus, and the acromial end of the clavi- cle, maybe dislocated, and be reduced either im- perfectly, or not at all, without the functions of the limb, to which they belong, being materially impaired. (Boyer, Traitd'dcs Maladies Chir. T. 4, p. 54.) Dislocations of enarthrosis are generally much less dangerous, than those of ginglymoid joints; for, the action of the muscles has a great share in producing the former ; the violence done to the external parts is less ; and the laceration of the soft parts is not so considerable. Even, in the same kind of joints, the seriousness of the case depends on the largeness of the articular sur- faces, and the number and strength of the muscles and ligaments. Dislocations of ginglymoid joints, however, are more easily reduced, than those of enarthro- sis articulations, the muscles of which are fre- quently very powerful, and capable of making great resistance to the efforts of the surgeon. This is frequently seen in luxations of the shoulder and thigh. It may be said, however, of the luxations of enarthrosis joints, that, if they happen the most easily, they are attended with less injury; and that, although their reduction may require con- siderable efforts, yet it can be accomplished, and the accident leaves no ill effects. On the con- trary, in dislocations of ginglymoid joints, the same reason, which renders them more unfre- quent, makes them also more serious. The so- lidity of these joints prevents the uniting means from being destroyed, except by great violence; and the extent of the articular surfaces does not permit a considerable displacement, especially, a complete one, without extensive injury of the ligaments, and surrounding soft parts. It is for these reasons, no doubt, that compound luxa- tions and protrusions of the heads of the bones, are most commonly seen in the ginglymoid arti- culations. Still it must be allowed, that the incomplete dislocations of these joints, unattended with much displacement, are not at all serious accidents. The more recent a luxation is, the more easy it is to reduce, and therefore, ccpleris paribus, the less grave is the injury. In this point of view, dislocations of ginglymoid joints are the most serious, because they soon become irreducible. Simple dislocations are much less dangerous, than those, which are complicated with contusion, the injury of a large nerve, or blood-vessel, inflam- matory swelling, fracture, wound, and, especially, a protrusion of one of the articular surfaces. (Boyer, Traitd des Maladies Chir. T. 4, ]>. 55, 56.) Dislocations from ulceration and suppuration in joints, termed spontaneous luxations, cannot admit of reduction: when they arise from the hip-disease, it is not merely in consequence of the ligaments being destroyed, the brim of the acetabulum itself is often annihilated. However, there are other spontaneous dislocations from pre- ternatural looseness of the ligaments, where re- duction may be accomplished with the greatest facility; though in these instances, the displace- ment generally recurs from the slightest causes. TREATMENT OF DISLOCATIONS IN GENERAL. Mr. Pott observes:—By what our forefathers have said on the subject of luxations, and by the descriptions and figures which they have left us of the means they used, of what they call their organs and machinemata, it is plain, that force was their object, and that whatever purposes were aimed at or executed by these instruments or machines, were aimed at and executed principally