AMAUROSIS. 07 fosis. This is a circumstance, which Mr. Hey took particular notice of in some cases, which fell under his observation many years ago : he says, that it was most remarkable in those persons who had totally lost the sight in either eye; for, in them, the most oblique rays of light seemed to make the first perceptible impression upon the .-etina; and, in proportion as that nervous coat regained its sensibility, the sight became more direct and natural. (See Med. Obs. and Inq. eel. 5.) TREATMENT OF AMAUROSIS, OR GUTTA SERENA. Where amaurosis is to be fundamentally cured, Hot upon empirical, but scientific principles, all the causes of the disorder must be ascertained, and, if possible, removed, as in the treatment of every other complaint. How often, however, it is impossible to accomplish the one or other of these objects, must be clear enough from the pre- ceding observations, particularly those concerning the etiology of the disease; and hence it is not surprising, that amaurosis should so frequently resist every endeavour to cure it. The plan of treatment is to be regulated, first by the number and kinds of circumstances, which determine the form of the disorder; secondly, by its presence, degree, and duration. When only the chief causes can be ascertained, a scientific mode of treatment may always %be instituted; though here it is very necessary to pay the ut- most attention to those morbid effects in the constitution, and in the eye in particular, which appear to have no connexion with the causes of amaurosis, and merely exist as accidental cotem- porary defects. If no particular circumstances can be assigned as the cause of amaurosis, the surgeon has no alternative but the adoption of some empirical method of treatment; but, exclaims professor Beer, woe to the patient whose surgeon, under these circumstances, draws from a heap of what are considered remedies for amaurosis, as from a lottery, the first as the best! In order to avoid this erroneous method ; at all events to do no harm, if no good be practi- cable; and not perhaps to render a half-blind person completely blind, instead of improving, or at least preserving, whatever remnant of vision there may be; the surgeon should act with great caution, and constantly bear in his mind, first, the constitution, sex, and age of the patient; secondly, his ordinary employments, and general mode of living; and thirdly, the principal mor- bid appearances under which the amaurosis origi- nated and was developed. (Beer, Le/ire von den Augenkr. b. 2.;?. 46'2.) But, what will be of the greatest assistance, is a correct acquaintance with the remedies for amaurosis in general, and the circumstances under which the use of this or that particular means is likely to be useful or detri- mental. I know of no writer who has been so minute on this part of the subject as professor Beer, whose sentiments (be it also remarked) are here in many respects different from those of Richter and Scarpa; for, like the surgeons of this metropolis, he rarely employs the emetic plan of treatment, which, according to his principles, is nor only ineffectual, but hurtful, whenever the •ndness is attended with determination of blood to the head and eyes, plethora, an accelerated circulation, or (what is understood by) a phlo- gistic diathesis. Beer’s opinions, respecting the employment of emetics, and other means for the cure of amaurosis, may be partly collected from the sequel of this article, but, more especially, from the fuller statement which will be made at a future opportunity. See Gutta Serena. In the mean time, I shall endeavour to offer a ge- neral account of the practice recommended by Schmucker, Richter, and Scarpa, according to the arrangement of causes adopted by the second of these valuable writers, and already detailed in the foregoing pages ; for I need not repeat that, whenever the method of cure can be directed against the causes of the disease, it is the most proper and scientific. The present article will, then, close with a description of the four forms into which professor Beer divides amaurosis, and a history of their varieties, symptoms, and treat- ment, according to the doctrines and experience of this eminent oculist. In that species of amaurosis, which arises from the first class of causes specified by Richter, namely, from those which seem to induce the disease, by means of a preternatural fulness and dilatation of the blood vessels of the brain, or eye, the indication is evidently to lessen the quantity of blood, and diminish the determination of it to the head. For this purpose, the patient may be bled in the arm, temporal artery, or foot. This evacuation is to be repeated as often as seems necessary, and it will be better to begin with tak- ing away from twelve to sixteen ounces. We are also advised by Schmucker to apply ten or twelve leeches to the neck and temples. The efficacy of bleeding, in the cure of particular cases of gutta serena, is strikingly exemplified by nu- merous well authenticated observations. Richter informs us of a woman, who, on leaving off’ having children, lost her sight; but, recovered it again by being only once bled in the foot. A sponta- neous hemorrhage from the nose also cured a young woman, who had been blind for several weeks. (Anfangfgr. der Wundarzn. b. 3. p. 442.) General bleeding sometimes proves ineffectual, unless assisted by topical. Leeches may be ap- plied to the temples, or cupping glasses to the back part of the neck. When the disorder is connected with chlorosis, or the cessation of bleeding from piles, leeches may be put on the perinseum, the inside of the thigh, or the sat rum. Local bleeding, however, seldom avails, except the whole mass of blood has been previously di- minished by theprudent employment of the lancet. Besides bleeding, the surgeon may advantage- ously have recourse to other means at the same time, as, for instance, emollient glysters, purga- tives, blisters, bathing the feet in warm water, &c. In some cases all the foregoing means fail in producing the desired benefit, even when they have been followed up, as far as the state of the pulse and strength of the constitution will allow. Here the continuance of the disease may depend, either upon the stoppage of some wonted evacu- ation of blood, or else upon some other cause of the first class. In the first of these cases (says Richter) experience proves, that the disease will sometimes not give way, before the accustomed discharge is re-established, on which the malady depends, notwithstanding evacuants may be cm-