69!> INFLAMMATION. inflammations of the organs of sense, and of the hones, the peculiarities in their structure and functions rendering them tit subjects for separate description. With respect to Mr. James’s noso- logical table of inflammation, I consider it very ingenious, and well deserving of the attention of the profession: I may say this, without at all in- volving myself in the hypothesis, that the limita- tion, or spreading of the generality of inflamma- tions, is a circumstance entirely dependent upon their disposition, or indisposition to effuse or- ganizable lymph. Mr. Hunter was well ac- quainted with the frequent usefulness of the ad- hesive inflammation in setting limits to disease, vet he did not venture to refer the circumscrip- tion of every inflammation to this cause, or the spreading of the disorder entirely to its absence. Nor, indeed, does it seem essential to Mr. James’s classification, 'that any cause should be assigned for the disposition of one class of in- flammations to be limited, and of another to spread ; the two facts themselves being sufficient for the basis of the division. There is much foundation for believing, that healthy inflammation is invariably an homogene- ous process, obedient to ordained principles, and, in similar structures, similar situations, and in constitutions of equal strength, uniformly as- suming the same features. If experience reveals i.o us, that here it is commonly productive of rertain effects, and there it ordinarily produces Afferent ones, the same unbounded source of lisdom communicates to the mind a knowledge, hat there is some difference in the tone of the constitution, or in the structure or situation of he parts affected, assignable as the cause of this variety. A modern author {Dr. Smith, in Med. Communications, Vol. 2.) makes the nature of he exciting cause one principal ground of the .jxjcitic distinctions in inflammation, and with .mod reason, when he takes into the account the etion of morbid poisons, and the qualities of disease in general. The doctrine also receives confirmation from fiat is observed in cases of burns, and ehil- lains, where the inflammation is unquestionably ttended with great peculiarity, requiring differ- nt treatment from that of common inflammation l general. But, when the exciting cause is irictly mechanical, its violence and extent may luse differences in the degree and quantity of dlammation; but, with respect to its quality, tis must be accounted for by constitution, or ther circumstances. The attentive observation of experience, the inly solid basis of all medical, as well as other, lowledge, has informed the practitioner, that •rts, which from their vicinity to the source of e circulation, enjoy a vigorous circulation of ood through them, undergo inflammation more vourably, and resist disease better, than other >rts, of similar structure, more remote from the art. The lower extremities are more prone to flammation, and disease in general, than parts iout the chest; when inflamed, they are longer getting well; and the circumstance of their nng depending parts, which retards the return blood through the veins, must also increase c backwardness of such parts in any salutary ocess. {Hunter.) Healthy inflammation is of a pule red ; when less healthy, it is of a darker colour; but, in every constitution, the inflamed parts will partake more of the healthy red, the nearer they are to the source of the circulation. {Hunter.) • Inflammation, when situated in highly organized and very vascular parts, is generally more disposed to take a prosperous course, and is more govern- able by art, than in parts of an opposite texture. The nearer also such vascular parts are to the heart, the greater will be their tendency to do well in inflammation. {Hunter.) Hence, in- flammation of the skin, cellular substanee, mus- cles, &c. more frequently ends favourably, than the same affection of bones, tendons, fasciae, li- gaments, &c. It is also more manageable by surgery; for those parts of the body, which are not what anatomists term vascular, seem to en- joy only inferior powers of life, and, consequent- ly, when excited in a preternatural degree, fre- quently mortify. But, inflammation of vital parts, though they may be exceedingly vascular, cannot go on so favourably, as in other parts of resembling struc- ture, but, of different functions; because, the natural operations of universal health depend so much upon the sound condition of such organs. (Hunter.) The truth of this observation is il- lustrated in cases of gastritis, pCripneumony, &c. All nevv-forined parts, not originally enter- ing into the fabric of the body, such as tumors, both of the encysted and sarcomatous kinds, ex- crescences, See. cannot endure the disturbance of inflammation long, nor in a great degree. The vital powers of such parts are weak, and when irritated by the presence of inflammation, tlrese adventitious substances are sometimes removed by the lymphatics, but more commonly slough. This remark applies also to substances generated as substitutes for the original matter of the body; for instance, granulations and callus. The know- ledge of this fact, leads us to a rational principle of cure in the treatment of several surgical dis- eases. Do we not here perceive the cause, why very large wens are occasionally dispersed by the application of urine, brine, and similar things, which are now in great repute, on this account, with almost every one out of the profession ? How many verrucae, wrongly suspected to origi- nate from a syphilitic cause, are diminished and cured by a course of mercury! It is the stimulus of this mineral upon the whole system, that ac- complishes the destruction of these adventitious substances—not its antivenereal quality. To- pical stimulants would fulfil the same object, not only with greater expedition, but with no injury to the general health. Inflammation, cirteris paribus, always pro- ceeds more favourably in strong, than in weak constitutions; for, when there is much strength, there is little irritability. In weak constitutions, the operations of inflammation are backward, notwithstanding' the part, in which it is seated, may, comparatively speaking, possess consider- able organization, and powers of life. {Hunter.) Healthy inflammation, wherever situated, is always most violent on that side of the point of inflammation, which is next to the external sur- face of the body. When inflammation attacks the socket of a tooth, it docs not take place on