^ DURA WATER mater, and pericranium, attended with an ab- sorption of the earthy part of the bone. (Jouru. far Cliir. yon C. Gntefe, ftc. p. 91—93.) 1 he existence of a fungous tumor of the dura mater cannot be ascertained, as long as there is no external change. The effects, produced, may originate from so many causes, that there would be great risk of a gross mistake in referring them to any particular ones. This is not the case, when there is an opening in the skull. Then a hardness, felt from the very first at the circum- ference of the tumor, denotes that it comes from within. When the swelling is carefully handled, such a crackling sensation is perceived, as would arise from touching dry parchment stretched over the skin. On making much pressure, pain is occasioned, and sometimes a numbness in all the limbs, stupefaction, and other more or less afflicting symptoms. The tumor, in some mea- sure, returns inward, especially, when not very large, and gradually rises up outward again, when the pressure is discontinued. Sometimes, there is pain; at other times, there is none; which may be owing to the manner, in which the tumor is affected by the edges of the bone, through which it passes. The pain is often made to go off by compression, but returns as soon as this is taken off. The tumor has an alternate motion, derived from the pulsation of the brain, or of the large arteries at its base. This throb- bing motion has led many practitioners to mis- take the disease for an aneurism, as happened in the second case, related in the memoir of M. Louis. When the tumor is pushed sideways, and the finger carried between it and the edge of the bone, through which the disease protrudes, the bony edge may be felt, touching the base of the swelling, and more or less constricting it. This symptom, when distinguishable, added to a certain hardness and elasticity, and sometimes a facility of reduction, forms apathognomonic mark, whereby fungous tumors of the dura mater may be discriminated from herniae of the brain, external fleshy tumors, abscesses, exostoses, and other af- fections, which at first sight resemble them. Probably, however, some variety* in the sym- ptoms prevails in different instances; for, in the cases recorded by Walther, there was no pulsa- tion, strictly so called, but merely an obscure movement, or an alternate distention and flaccidity, arising from influx of blood into the vessels of the diseased mass; the tumors could not be pushed within the cranium in the slightest degree; nor did tlie attempt cause any of the effects usually observed to proceed from pressure on the brain. No aperture could be felt in the skull, much less could the irregular edges of the bone around the tumor be distinguished. (Jourrt. fur Chir. B. 1, p. 57—61, c. 8eo. Berlin, 1820.) Whatever movements also were perceptible in the swellings, Walther is convinced could not be communicated to them by the pulsations of the subjacent brain; because they were wedged, as it were, in an aperture in the skull, and adherent to the dura mater beneath them, and to the superincumbent periosteum, so that, even in the dead subject, they did not admit of being pushed In the least more outwards without difficulty, and the employment of strong pressure. (Vul. cil, p. 57.) Indeed, this tight constriction of the tumor not only explains why stupor, paralysis, See. were not brought on in these particular examples by external pressure, but also why the edges of the hole in the skull could not be felt; and the small size of the same opening, in relation to the magnitude of the swelling, fully accounts in my opinion for the circumstance of the swellings not sinking inwards under pressure. But, I am far horn being convinced with Walther, that fungi of the dura mater are in their nature always irreducible, (see Veil. cit. p. 82); a belief, which he grounds upon the connexion of the diseased mass with the vessels of the diploe; its con- striction by the bone; and its expansion under, as well as above, the cranium. Here I think Walther is as wrong in saying, that none of these fungi can possibly be reduced, as others would be in asserting that it is their invariable cha- racter to be reducible. These differences must chiefly depend upon the size of the swelling, in relation to that of the aperture in the skull. Generally speaking, fungous tumors of the dura mater are very dangerous, as well on ac- count of their nature, as of the difficulty of curing them in any certain manner, and of the internal and external disorder, which they may' occasion. Such as have a pedicle, the base of which is not extensive; which are firm in their texture, without much disease in the surrounding bone, are moveable, not very'painful, and in per- sons, who are in other respects quite well, are in general reputed to be the least perilous. These are the cases, in which a cure mayr be attempted, with a hope of success, though thte event is always exceedingly' doubtful. When the contrary of what has been just re- lated occurs, when the disease is of long con- tinuance, and the brain already* affected, nothing favourable can be expected. Compression is the most simple means of cure, and that which has naturally' occurred to such practitioners, as have mistaken the disease for an aneurism, or a hernia cerebri. The efficacy of this method has been further misconceived, be- cause the tumor, when not very large, has some- times been partly', or even wholly reduced, with- out any bad consequences. This had no little share in leading to errors, concerning the true character of the disease. But, as might be con- ceived, this reduction, only being attended with temporary success, and having no effect what- ever on the original cause of the affection, the symptoms returned, and the tumor rose up again, the moment the compression was discon- tinued. There is a fact in the memoir of M. Louis, which seems to evince, that good effects may' sometimes be produced by' compression judiciously employ'ed. A woman, brought to the brink of the grave by' the symptoms, oc- casioned by a tumor of the above kind, having rested with her head, for some time, on the same side as the tumor, found the swelling so suddenly reduced, without any' ill effects, that she thought herself cured by some miracle. Compression artfully kept up, by* means of a piece of tin, fastened to her* cap, prevented the protrusion of the tumor again. The pressure, however, not having been always very exact, the symptoms every now and then recurred, while the tumor was in the act of being depressed again, and