AMAUROSIS. 40 operation of the stronger mechanical, chemical stimulants, which, he says, may be best done, first by letting the steam of warm water be directed up the nostrils; secondly, by inhaling into the nose warm emollient, mucilaginous de- coctions, especially the decoction of mallows; and, lastly, by employing in the same way a warm weak solution of manna in milk. Yet, says Beer, eveli with these applications, one must prdceed with caution; for, when they are made too strong, the headach and weakness of sight fire almost instantly augmented. At most, half a scruple of manna canellata is to be dis- solved in from four to six ounces of milk; and for children and irritable females, the mixture should be still Weaker. When preparation lias thus been made, that is, when the mucous mem- brane of the nose is rendered soft and somewhat tumid, when the dryness of the nose is in some measure lessened, when the patient feels as if his nostrils were constantly filled with thick mucus, which he endeavours to get rid of by blowing his nose; when the sense of heaviness about the root of the nose increases, and the violent headach changes into a dull heavy feel; the precise crisis has arrived, when great benefit maybe derived from the powder of mild aromatic herbs, blended with a small proportion of calomel. After this has been employed some time, brisk sternutatories may be tried, like those composed of aromatic vegetable powders mixed with black hellebore, or the vapour of strong volatile smell- ing salts, caustic ammonia, &c. These means frequently bring about a profuse discharge of thick, fetid mucus, after which evacuation the disagreeable sensations about the root of the nose, and eyebrow, gradually cease, the nose is left moister than usual, and the eyesight is at length completely restored. The only thing, which it is necessary for the patient most strictly to avoid, during the whole of the treatment, is the cold air, exposure to which (according to Beer’s observations) may be the means of frustrating every endeavour to complete the cure. (Beer, Lehre von dev Augenhr. B, 2, p. 530-—34J. 8. pf the genuine paralytic amaurosis. This is not an unfrequent case; it always originates very suddenly, attended with a mani- fest contraction of the pupil, which opening has not lost any of its natural clearness; and there is complete immobility of the iris, the pupillary margin of which does not present the slightest irregularity. However, either some muscle of the globe of the eye, the levator of the upper eyelid, or the orbicularis palpebrarum, nay, several of these muscles, and sometimes all of them to- gether, are affected with paralysis; while the blindness itself is almost always not only com- plete, but not unfrequently so cdmplete, that every vestige of sensibility to light is lost. The functions of the puncta lachrymalia are also more or less impeded, whence a greater or lesser de- gree of epiphora usually accompanies the dis- order, as a natural effect of the abolished, or diminished absorption and conveyance of the* tears into the lachrymal sac; circumstance^ generally occurring whenever the orbicularis palpebrarum is paralytic. A completely amau- rotic eye of this description, says Beei, has the greatest possible resemblance to a dead eye. When all the muscles of the globe are palsied together, the eye can no longer preserve its situa- tion in the orbit, but protrudes, as it were, life- less ( OphihalmoplMis paralytica) ; While the whole tunica conjunctiva is commonly oedematous, or very blood-shot; and, it is not unusual to find this amaurosis conjoined either with paralysis of certain muscles of the face, or even with hemi- plegia. The causes of the true paralytic amaurosis comprise violent concussions of the eve-ball itself, unaccompanied with any solution of con- tinuity, or any displacement of the internal parts of this organ; concussions of the upper and lower margins of the orbit, especially the eye- brow, and neighbouring part of the forehead, without any laceration of the frontal and infra- orbitrary nerves; and concussions of the whole brain, or spinal marrow: sometimes, however, the disorder is .only a symptomatic effect of apoplexy. In the three latter cases, the blind- ness regularly extends to both eyes. The prognosis may either be very favourable, or unfavourable. When the amaurosis is only the momentary consequence of a simple con- cussion of the eyeball, without any breach in its internal texture, if the retina be not wounded, and none of the inner parts of the eye displaced, the case always admits of a perfect cure by pro- per treatment; and, says Beer, it is incredible, bow much may here be accomplished, by beginning the treatment judiciously, even when the eyesight has been nearly or quite abolished, and the concus- sion of the eyeball has been so serious, as to produce an effusion of blood in the chambers of the aqueous humour. Beer owns, however, that cures of the latter description, of which the ophthalmic hospital at Vienna has afforded many examples, are only to be considered as extraordi- nary occurrences, and therefore should not form any general inference for the prognosis. But, when this amaurotic loss of sight is the effect of a severe concussion of the brain or spinal mar- row, and the case is unequivocally denoted by its general well-known characteristics, and its history; or when the disorder is the sjnnptom of an apoplectic fit; the prognosis is very un- favourable, not merely with respect to the restora- tion of sight, but the patient’s life itself. In cases of paralytic amaurosis, even where it proceeds from a concussion of the eye itself or its vicinity, a complete cure cannot always be expected from merely local remedies. The treat- ment, however, should regularly begin in this manner, and the surgeon first try whether it will answer, or not. For this purpose, Beer par- ticularly recommends the employment of all those nervous remedies, the cautious gradual use of which in the empirical treatment of amau- rosis is particularly praised by that author.' (Sec Gwta Serena J. Should local means fail, gradual recourse must be had to antiparalytics and tonics. (Lchrc von dir Augenhr. B. 2, p. 535, &c.) 9. Of the symptomatic amaurosis from hydre- cephalw. According to Beer, tins amaurosis may occur, as a symptomatic effect, not merely in internal hydrocephalus and collections of water in the ventricles of the brain, but also in external hy- drocephalus and spina bifida. In the two latter