HEMORRHAGE. 585 the following manner: “ An impetuous (low of blood, a sudden and forcible retraction of the ar- tery- within its sheath, and a slight contraction of its extremity, are the immediate, and almost si- multaneous, effects of its division. The natural impulse, however, with which the blood is driven on, in some measure counteracts the retraction, ind resists the contraction of the artery. The lood is effused into the cellular substance, be- ween the artery and its sheath, and passing lirough that canal of the sheath, which had been ormed by the retraction of the artery, flows rcely externally, or is extravasated into the sur- rounding cellular membrane, in proportion to the pen, or confined state of the wound. The re- raeting artery leaves the internal surface of the .heath uneven, by lacerating, or stretching the rellular fibres, that connected them. These ibres entangle the blood, as it flows, and thus he foundation is laid for the formation of a coa- ;ulum at the mouth of the artery, and which ap- rears to be completed by the blood, as it passes Trough this canal of the sheath, gradually ad- lering and coagulating, around its internal sur- ace, till it completely fills it up from the circum- erence to the centre.” (Jones, p. 53.) The effusion of blood into the surrounding :ellular membrane, and between the artery and -ts sheath; but, in particular, the diminished bree of the circulation from loss of blood, and he speedy coagulation of this fluid under these .ircumstances, most essentially contribute, says Jr. Jones, to the desirable effect. It appears then, that a coagulum, which Dr. ones calls the external one, situated at the nouth of the artery, and within its sheath, forms he first complete obstacle to the continuance of deeding, and though it seems externally like a ontinuation of the artery, yet, on slitting open his vessel, its termination can be plainly ob- erved, with the coagulum shutting up its mouth, nd contained in its sheath. No collateral branch being very near the im- lervious mouth of the artery, the blood just /ithin it is at rest, and usually forms a slender onical coagulum, which neither fills up the ca- •al Of the artery, nor adheres to its sides, except v a small portion of the circumference of its ase, near the extremity of the vessel. This oagulum is distinct from the former, and what )r. Jones calls the internal one. The cut end of the artery next inflames, and te vasa vasorutn pour out lymph, which fills up he extremity of the artery, is situated between ie internal and external coagula, and is some- hat intermingled with them, or adheres to lem, and is firmly united all round to the inter- al coat of the vessel. Dr. Jones further states, lat the permanent suppression of hemorrhage hiefly depends on this coagulum of lymph ; but, mt the end of the artery is also secured by a radual contraction, which it undergoes, and by n effusion of lymph between its tunics, and into ie surVounding cellular substance; whereby ‘ese parts become thickened, and so incorpo- ated with each other, that one cannot be dis- erned from the other. Should the wound in the ntegunienls not heal by the first intention, the oag(dating lymph, soon effused, attaches the ar- jry hrmly to the subjacent and lateral parts, gives it a new covering, and entirely excludes it from the outward wound. I he same circumstances are also remarkable in the portion of the vessel, most remote from the heart. Its orifice, however, is usually more contracted, and its external coagulum smaller, than the one, which attaches itself to the other cut end of the artery. (Jones on Hemorrhage, p. 56.) The impervious extremity of the artery, no longer allowing blood to circulate through it, the portion, which lies between it and the first lateral branch gradually contracts, till its cavity i^ com- pletely obliterated, and its tunics assume a liga- mentous appearance. In a few days, the exter- nal coagulum, which in the first instance, stop- ped the hemorrhage, is absorbed, and the coagu- lating lymph, effused around it, and by which the parts were thickened, is gradually removed, so that they resume again their cellular texture. At a still later period, the ligamentous por- tion is reduced to a filamentous state, so that the artery is, as it were, completely annihilated from its cut end to the first lateral branch ; but, long- before this final change is accomplished, the in- osculating branches have become considerably enlarged, so as to establish a free communica- tion, between the disunited parts of the main artery. , When an artery has been divided at some di- stance from a lateral branch, three coagula are formed : one of blood externally, which shuts up its mouth ; one of lymph, just within the extre- mity of its canal; and one of blood, within its cavity, and contiguous to that of lymph. But, when the artery has been divided near a lateral branch, no internal coagulum of blood is formed. (Jones, p. 63.) The external coagulum is always formed, when the divided artery is left to nature ; not so, however, if art interferes, for under the applica- tion of the ligature it can never form. If aga- ric, lycoperdon, or sponge, be used, its formation is doubtful, depending entirely upon the degree of pressure, that is used; but, the internal coa- gulum of blood will be equally formed, whether the treatment be left to art, or nature, if no col- lateral branch is near the truncated extremity of the artery; and lastly, effused lymph, which, when in sufficient quantity, forms a distinct coa- gulum, just at the mouth of the artery, will be always found, if the hemorrhage is permanently suppressed. (Jones, p. 7'1.) me A NS WHICH NATURE EMPLOY8 FOR SUPI’RESS- 1NG THE HEMORRHAGE FROM PUNCTURED, OR PARTIALLY DIVIDED ARTERIES. I he suppression of hemorrhage by the natural means is sometimes more easily accomplished, when an artery is completely divided, than when merely punctured, or partially divided. Com- pletely dividing a wounded artery was one means practised by the ancients for the stoppage of he- morrhage : the moderns frequently do the same thing, when bleeding from the temporal artery proves troublesome. Dr. Jones has related many experiments, highly worthy of perusal, and which were under- taken to investigate the present part of the sub-