URINARY CAjLCULI. 110G composition of these calculi is said to have been lirst explained by Dr. Wollaston. (See Phil. Trims, for 1797.) They all consist of phos- phate of lime, the earth not being redundant as in bones. Their size varies from that of a pin’s head to that of a hazel nut. Their form is more or less spheroidal; and they are of a yellowish brown colour. Fourcroy has described a species of urinary calculus, which is characterized by its being composed of the urate or lithate of ammonia. Dr. Wollaston, Mr. .Brande, and Dr. Marcet did not, however, satisfactorily ascertain the presence of this substance in any of the concre- tions, which they examined. As also urea and the triple phosphate, both of which afford am- monia, are frequently present in lithic calculi, it is conjectured, that these circumstances may have given rise to the analytical results, from which the existence of urate of ammonia lias been inferred. (Brande in Phil. Trans. 1808. Marcet's Essay, p. 93.) The recent investigations of Dr. Prout, how- ever, tend to establish the reality of the lithate of ammonia calculus. Dr. Marcet has met with two specimens of urinary calculi entirely different from any which have hitherto been noticed. One of these he proposes to name Xanthic oxide, from %a\9.o?, yellow, because one of its most characteristic properties is that of forming a lemon coloured compound, when acted upon by nitric acid. The chemical properties of the other new calculus, mentioned by Dr. Marcet, correspond to those of fibrine, and he therefore suggests the pro- priety of distinguishing it by the. term fbrinous. For a particular description of these new sub- stances, I must refer to this gentleman’s Essay. 11. Carbonate of Lime Calculus. This sub- stance is not enumerated by Dr. Marcet, as en- tering into the composition of urinary calculi. But, according to Mr. R. Smith, there can be no doubt of the fact. Dr. W. H. Gilby, of Clifton, he says, detected it decidedly in four instances. “ A notice of it will be found in Mr. Tilloek’s Journ. for 1817, vol. 49, p. 188, in the account of a curious calculus, given to me by Mr. G. M. Burroughs, of Clifton; the nucleus of which is a common cinder, an inch and a half long, and one broad. Since the publication of that paper (continues Mr. Smith), Mr. H. Sully, of Wiveliscombe, sent me three oddly shaped calculi, which he removed from a lad, together with 15 pea-sized ones previously voided by the urethra, which are entirely carbonate of lime, held together by animal mucus.” (See Med. Chir. Trans, vol. 11, p. 14.) Dr. Front has also seen some small calculi, composed almost entirely of carbonate of lime. [On Gravel, S^c, p. 89.) Dr. Prout has investigated, with considerable talent, the comparative prevalency of the differ- ent forms of urinary deposite, and the order of their succession. His data are taken from the examinations, made by Professor Brande, ol the calculi in the Hunterian Collection; by Dr. Marcet, of those at Norwich and Guy's hospital; by Dr. Henry, of those at Manchester; and by Mr. Smith, of others preserved at the Bristol the name of lithic acid, 98 of which were nearly pure; 151 were mixed with a little of the oxalate of lime; and 45 with a little of the phosphates. 113 consisted ol oxalate ol lime. '1 hree were of cystic oxide. 202 were phosphates ; of which Iff were nearly pure; 84 mixed with a small proportion of lithic acid; eight consisted of phos- phate of lime nearly pure; three of triple phos- phate nearly pure; and 91 of the fusible, or mixed calculi. 18ff were alternating calculi, or those whose laminae varied, but consisted of lithic acid, oxalate of lime, and phosphates: of these, 15 consisted of lithic acid and oxalate of lime, the Hist being in the greatest proportion; 4(J of the oxalate of lime, in the greatest pro- portion, and lithic acid in the least; 51 of the lithic acid and the phosphates; 49 of the oxalate of lime, and the phosphates; 12 of the oxalate of lime, lithic acid, and the phosphates; one of fusible and lithic; two of fusible, and oxalate of lime; and 16, the composition of which was not mentioned. Of compound calculi, whose composition was not specified, there were 25. (See TV. Prout's Inquiry into the Nature and Treatment cf Gravel and Calculus, p. 94.) The proportion of lithic acid calculi is some- what more, than one-third of the whole number. But, as this acid is the common nucleus, round which other calculous matter is deposited, Dr. Prout computes the proportion of calculi, ori- ginating from it, to be at least two-thirds of the whole number. According to the experiments of the same physician, the red crystalline cal- culus is composed of nearly pure lithic acid; and the earthy, amorphous one, consists of lithic acid, more or less ammonia, generally a little of the phosphates, and sometimes a small portion of the oxalate of lime. The lighter the colour, the greater in general the proportion of lithate of ammonia and the phosphates. (P. 97.) Oxalate of lime calculi form one-seventh of the whole number, without any regularity’, how- ever, in different museums. Cystic oxide, calculi are so rare, that the pro- portion found was only’ one in 274. Calculi composed of the phosphates, made about one-fourth of the whole number. Alternating calculi amounted to between one- fourth and one-fifth; but. Dr. Prout oilers good reasons for believing, that the data, from which the estimate is drawn, cannot be de- pended upon. For additional information on this branch of the subject, I must refer to Dr. Prout's valuable work. The stone being a severe affliction, and (be operation extremely hazardous and painful, a variety of experiments have been instiluled, for the purpose of discovering a solvent for urinary calculi. Hitherto, however, all the remedies and plans, which have been tried, have been at- tended with very limited, and, by no means, un- equivocal success, notwithstanding many persons may have been deceived into a contrary opinion. The dissolution of stones in the bladder has been attempted by lithonlriplic medicines, ns they are termed, and by fluids injected into this viscus. At the present day, practitioners direct their endeavours very much to the correction of