ǥ* AMAUROSIS. sion, and recovered it again the next day, upon taking an emetic, by which a considerable quan- tity of bile was evacuated. A woman is also cited, who became blind, whenever she was trou- bled with what are termed acidities in the sto- mach. (See Anfangs. der Wundarzn. B. 3, Kap. 14.) However, according to Beer, the im- perfect amaurosis seldom depends upon disorder of the gastric organs, excepting the case from worms: {Lehre von den Augeuicr. B. 2. p. 456:) a very important difference of opinion from that entertained by Schmucker, Richter, and Scarpa. The continental surgeons are excessively com- prehensive in their ideas of the causes of gutta serena, and, with many truths, they blend an evident quantity of unestablished conjectures, and palpable absurdities. I believe, it will gene- rally be found, that, when surgical writers assign a multitude of causes for any disease, they deal very much in mere supposition. It would be idle credulity, indeed, to put faith in the assertions concerning amaurosis being occasioned by the bad treatment of particular fevers, suppressed diarrhoeas, the repulsion of eruptive complaints, &c. There is no reason, why a person should not become blind about the time, when another disorder gives way; but, we ought to have some other ground for the doctrines, to which allusion is made, before we can presume to offer them as entitled to confidence. These observations apply to some of the causes of amaurosis enumerated by Beer, of whose sentiments I mean presently to give a full account. Worms in the alimentary canal are alleged to be sometimes the cause of amaurosis, and, since a disordered state of the gastric organs is universally acknowledged to be frequently con- cerned in the production of blindness, we can have no difficulty in conceiving, that worms may likewise have the same effect. Besides gastric irritations, there are some others, which class as causes of this disease. A violent fright, which is considered as being a frequent remote cause of gutta serena, is supposed by Richter to operate chiefly by irritating the nerves. The blindness sometimes proceeds from a me- chanical kind of irritation. A man received in his right orbit a small shot, which pierced the upper eye-lid, and lodged at the upper part of the socket, between the eye-lid and eye-ball, so that it could be felt externally. Richter adds, that this patient shortly afterwards became, blind in the left eye; but recovered his sight in it again, upon the excision of the shot. (Anfaugsgi. tier Wundarzn. Band 3, p. 439.) Sometimes, says this experienced surgeon, the irritation, exciting amaurosis, seems to have its seat in the mucous membrane of the nose and frontal sinuses. We have already adverted to the unusually dry state of the nostril, that has been suspected of being occasionally conducive to this species of blindness. According to Beer, several constitutional dis- orders, but more especially gout, are frequently concerned in the production of amaurosis. Respecting the causes of amaurosis, the fol- lowing remarks by Beer claim attention. Various swellings in the orbit, as, for instance, encysted tumours, tophi, hydatids in the sheath of the optic nerve, may, and must gradually produce complete amaurosis by their pressure upon the optic nerves and retina. These cases are usually characterized by a protrusion of the eye from its socket. (See Biophthalmia.) In the same manner, different morbid changes in the brain itself, and in the bones of the cranium in particular, may be the direct cause of amauro- sis : for example, hydrocephalus internus, caries, and exostoses at the basis of the skull. Just as amaurosis is frequently a pure symp- tomatic effect of various disordered states of the constitution, so may different morbid changes, occasioned in the eye by those states of the health, become the proximate cause of amaurosis, as hydrophthalmia, cirsophthalmia, dissolution of the vitreous humour, glaucoma, &c. Fromaeontagiousatmosphere,whichisgenerally injurious to the eyes, an amaurotic blindness may originate, though but very rarely, and, as it would seem, only through the powerful influence of such state of the air over the whole sanguiferous and nervous system. Debilitated,' nervous, weak- sighted persons, by remaining long in the atmo- sphere of a privy (Chomel, Mem. de Paris, 1711, Obs. Anal. 5. and Ramazziui, De Mot bis Artificum, c. 13.), that of a deep cellar, or exposed to coal- smoke, may be suddenly attacked with amaurosis; and Beer assures us, that his experience confirms the truth of these reports. (Lehre. <%c. b. 2. p. 452.) A sympathetic affection of the nerves of the eye, with a carious grinder in the upper jaw- bone, is one of the most uncommon causes of amaurotic blindness. A case, not yet duly considered, and very like the amblyopia senilis, consists of an incessantly diminishing secretion of the pigmentum nigrum upon the tunica Ruyschinna, choroidea, and uvea, which secretion indeed, in some individuals, earlier and more considerably; in others, later and in a slighter degree, recedes with other secre- tions of a different nature. In consumptive per- sons, this change happens in a remarkable degree, so that the patients are, gradually, quite bereft of vision. (See Bter's Lehre von den Augenkr. B. 2. p. 451, 4'c.) For a variety of additional facts and observations respecting the causes of amauro- sis, I would advise the reader to consult iFor- drop's Essuys on the Morbid Anatomy of the Hu- man Eye, vol. 2. chap. 45 ; a work replete with valuable information. It is remarked by professor Beer, that amau- rosis, when completely formed, has, hitherto, been but rarely cured. This (says he) may depend, in the first place, upon our far too imperfect knowledge of the nerves, and of their genuine and complicated disorders. Secondly, it may equally depend upon the present very defective etiology of amaurosis. Thirdly, the frequent incurability of amaurosis also very materially proceeds from the causes of the disease being, in most instances, not only obscured, but exceedingly complicated, and even when detected, many of them will not admit of removal, because th.ey have their found- ation either in the constitution of the eye, long existing defects of physical and moral education, protracted bad habits of youth, or the unmanage- able behaviour of the patient. Fourthly, we must take into the account the unconscientious indo- lence of the practitioner, who so often positively declines rendering the patient any assistance at all; or, if for the sake of lucre he attempt any