2-1'J BURNS. suffer merely from irritation, relief may be ob- ained bv dipping the part affected in very cold vati r. and keeping it for some time immersed. This’author states, that plunging the injured sart suddenly into boiling water would also pre- •ure ease; an assertion, however, much to be loubted, and a practice not likely to be imitated, n some cases, emollients afford immediate re- sef; but, in general, astringent applications are est. Strong brandy, or alcohol, is particularly -aised. At first the pain is increased by this I'uiedy; but an agreeable soothing sensation oon follows. The parts should be immersed in :ie spirit, and, when this cannot be done, soft Id linen, soaked in the application, should be opt constantly on the burn. The liquor plumbi uperacetatis dilutus is recommended. It is aid to prove useful, however, only by being stringent, as equal benefit may be derived from strong solution of alum, See. Such applica- .ons were frequently made with the view of pre- entiflg the formation of vesicles; but, Mr. B. Jell always remarked, that there was less pain, hen the blisters had already appeared, than lien prevented from rising, by remedies applied mnediatelv after the occurrence of the injury.' The applications should be continued, as long s the pain remains; and in extensive burns, renting great irritation, opium should be pre- :ribed. The stupor, with which patients, so i tuated, are often attacked, receives more relief i om opium, than any thing else. - Some recommend opening the vesications im- ediately; others assert, that they should not .* meddled with. Mr. B. Bell thinks, they lould not be opened till the pain arising from e burn, is entirely gone. At this period, he vs. they should always be punctured; for, hen the serum is allowed to rest iong upon the r. ;in beneath, it has a bad effect, and even in- jees some degree of ulceration. Small punc- ires, not large incisions, should be made. All ic fluid having been discharged, a liniment of ax and oil, with a small proportion of the super- •etate of lead, is to be applied. On the subject of opening the vesications in irns, Dr. Thom Jon believes, that the diversity 'opinion arises from the different effects result- g from the particular manner, in which the rening is made. “ If a portion of the cuticle ; removed, so as to permit the air to come into intact with the inflamed surface of the cutis, ’.in and a considerable degree of general irrita- on will necessarily be induced; but if the vesi- ttions be opened cautiously with the point of a redle, so as to allow the serum to drain off owly, without at the same time allowing the air enter between the cuticle and cutis, the early nening of the vesications will not only not ocea- ! »> pain, but will give considerable relief, by tninishing the state of tension, with which the •sications are almost always, in a greater or less ’gree, accompanied. When opened in this anner, the vesications often fill again with ■rum; but, the punctures may be repeated as ten as is necessary, without any hazard of ng- ravating the inflammation. Great care should ’ taken, in every instance, to preserve the used portion of cuticle as entire as possible,” <\v'^eC ^ tclnvei 0,1 biflainmatinv, p. 59*1.) hen there is much irritation and fever, loud-lettlfig, and such remedies, as the parti- cular symptoms demand, must be advised. On account of the pulse being frequently small, quick, and vibratory, bleeding is at present not often employed. As Dr. Thomson remarks, however, it may become necessary in patients of a strong robust constitution, in whom the sym- ptomatiefever assumes an inflammatory type. * He lias often seen a single bleeding procure great relief in these cases; and he does not remember a case where bleeding was followed by injurious effects. (P. 594.) When the skin ulcerates, the treatment does not differ from what will be described, in speaking of Ulcers. When burns are produced by gunpowder, or less destroyed, cooling emollient applications were formerly thought most effectual, and a lini- ment, composed of equal proportions of lime- water and linseed oil, gained the greatest cele- brity. Even at this day. the application is very often employed. Mr. B. Bell advises it to be put on the parts, by means of a soft hair pencil, as the application and removal of the softest covering, are often productive of much pain. The same author admits, however, that there are some cases, in which Goulard’s cerate, and a weak solution of the superacetate oflead, more quickly procure ease, than the above liniment. The sloughs having come away, the sores are to be dressed according to common principles. (See Ulcers.) When burns are produced by gunpowder, some of the grains may be forced into the skin: these should be picked out with the point of needle, and an emollient poultice applied, which will dissolve and bring away any particles of gun- powder, yet remaining. Burnt parts, which are contiguous, frequently grow together in the progress of the cure. The fingers, toes, sides of the nostrils, and the eye- lids are particularly liable to this occurrence which is to be prevented by keeping dressings al- ways interposed between the parts likely to be- come adherent, until they are perfectly healed. The sores, resulting from burns, are, perhaps, more disposed, than any other ulcers, to form large granulations, which rise considerably above the level of the surrounding skin. No poultices should now be used. The sores should be dressed with any moderately stimulating, astringent ointment: the urig. lapid. calaminaris, or the unguentum resinm with the pulv. hydrarg. nitrat. rub. is now generally preferred: and, if the part will allow of the application of a roller, the pressure of this will be of immense service in keeping down the granulations, and rendering them more healthy. When these methods fail, the sores should be gently rubbed with the argen- tum nitratum. In the dry and hot state of the skin, Dr. Thomson is an advocate for diaphoretics. “Laxatives (says he) are often necessary; but, it is in general best to employ only the gentler sort, on account of the trouble and pain, which moving always- gives the patient. Anodynes are often required, not only to procure sleep, but even a temporary alleviation of the pungency of the pain, which the burn occasions. A mild vegetable and farinaceous diet should be usc“ during the period of the symptomatic fever. Animal food, wine, and other cordials, nifty be required in the progress of a suppurating burn ; but, they are not necessary at first, and when