LITHOTOMY. 779 truth, however, that a fresh calculus may form again in the short space of a few months. I have seen several patients who have been cut for the stone, more than once ; and Richerand mentions the case of a surgical instrument-maker, resident at the gate of La Charite, in Paris, who has undergone the operation three times in the course of a year and a half, although after each opera- tion several eminent surgeons carefully examined the bladder, and could not find any calculus re- maining in it. (See Nusogr. Chlr. T. 3,p. 549, Edit. 4.) The stone should always be attentively ex- amined immediately it is extracted; because its appearance conveys some information, though not positive, concerning the existence of others. If the stone is smooth on one surface, the smooth- ness is generally found to arise from the friction of other stones still in the bladder; but, when it is uniformly rough, it is a presumptive sign, that there is no other one remaining behind. In every instance, however, the surgeon should gently examine the cavity of the bladder with his fore-finger; for, it would be an inexcusable neg- lect to put the patient to bed, with another stone in his bladder. After the operation, a simple pledget should be laid on the wound, supported by a T bandage; the patient should lie in bed on his back, with his thighs closed; a piece of oil-cloth, and some folded napkins should be laid under him for the reception of the urine, and, if there be much pain, a large opiate should be administered; but, as the latter medicine is a stimulant, if it can be dispensed with, so much the better. An occasional embarrassment to lithotomists is the circumstance of stones in the bladder not being always free and detached : some are em- braced very tightly by the coats of this viscus ; others are partially engaged in the ureters; they are sometimes fixed in the neck of the bladder ; and are not unfrequently found lodged in sac- culi accidentally formed. These cysts are of dif- ferent sizes: some are small, and exist in a considerable number; some are deeper, with an orifice smaller than their base. They appear to be formed by a prolongation of the internal coat of the bladder. Other sacculi are occasionally found, which seem to lie composed of all the tunics of the bladder, and they are sometimes of such magnitude, that the bladder appears, as if it were divided into two, or more cavities of nearly equal size. Stones, found in these sacculi, sometimes present depressions and irregularities, in which fungi of the bladder have been received. When this happens, a portion of such fungous produc- tions is often extracted with the stone; a cir- cumstance that has deceived some practitioners, and led them to suppose, that the calculi actually adhered to the coat of the bladder. (See De- fault''s Parisian Chirurgicale Journal, Pul. ‘2, p. SS6, 387.) The extraction of encysted stones requires different modes of proceeding from those, which have been related. Littre conceived, that they might be removed in two ways. When they made only an inconsiderable projection into the bladder, he recommended the introduction of a probe, with which the membrane, covering the calculus, was to be rubbed, a finger being put into the rectum, in order to keep it down, and facili- tate the action of the probe in opening the cyst. When the calculi were very prominent, Littre recommended taking hold of them with a pair of forceps, and contusing and breaking the mem- branous pouch, with the points and asperities upon the inside of the blades of the instrument. He conceived that suppuration would then de- stroy the internal parietes of the cyst, and that the stone would fall into the bladder, and admit of being easily extracted. As Sabatier observes, it is plain, that this theory, which is founded on the idea entertained by Littre of the manner in which stones become encysted, is totally in- admissible in practice. Garengent ventured to pass a bistoury into the bladder for the purpose of disengaging a calculus lodged in a particular cyst at the fundus of this organ, behind the pubes. The knife had some tape twisted round the greatest part of its length, and was introduced under the guidance of the left index finger, which was passed in as far as it could reach. The patient was not more than ten, or eleven years old, and consequently of a size, which favoured the operation. The stone was loosened and taken out, and the child re- covered. However, as Sabatier remarks, there a,re many instances, in which this mode of pro- ceeding cannot be imitated : for, if the calculus should be in a sort of cul-de*sac, as often hap- pens, the entrance of which is narrower than its bottom, and the stone be of considerable size, the incision cannot be made large enough, without risk of cutting through the whole thickness of the bladder, and producing certain death by the effusion of urine in the abdomen. Other practitioners fancied, that the calculus might be taken hold of with the forceps, and turned about in different directions so as to lace- rate its connexions, or even that it might be forcibly extracted, without any serious ill con- sequences. Houstet mentions, (see Mem. de l’Acad, dc Chir. T. 2,p. 307, £fc. Edit. 12mo.) that Peyronie adopted this method on a patient, thirty-one years of age. The calculus did not resist long, and its surface was found covered with fleshy substances, which formed the adhe- sions to the bladder. The operation was painful, followed by considerable hemorrhage, tension of the belly, hiccough, cold extremities, and death. There are some examples, however, in which this bold practice had better success. In 1730, Le Dran extracted from a woman an enormous stone, adherent to that part of the bladder, which lies upon the rectum. The irritation of the in- equalities of the stone had produced ulceration of the bladder, and fungous growths, which insi- nuated themselves into the substance of the ex- traneous body. The adhesions readily yielded, and the excrescences came away with the calcu- lus. Ten days afterwards, some thick membra- nous sloughs were voided. This calculus is en- graved in Le Dran’s Treatise on the Operations. Le Dran afterwards extracted similar stones, which adhered by n less extensive surface; and he relates an operation done by Marechal, who, in 1715, extracted with a pair of forceps, a stone shaped like a calebash, and having its narrow part surrounded by a fungus. In one case, the posi- tion of the calculus led Le Dran to suspect, that