FRACTURES. 475 brain, extravasation, &c. the necessity of such rectness of the reduction can always he rightly practice is still more strongly indicated. .judged 0f by attending to the line, which the * base of the jaw ought to form, and observing fractures of the lower jaw. that the arch ol the teeth is as regular as nature will allow. The maintenance of the reduction, This bone is sometimes fractured near the chin; however, is difficult; and can only be well exe- but, seldom so as to produce a division of the sym- cuted by supporting the lower jaw, and keeping physis, the solution of continuity generally hap- it applied to the upper one. As the latter indi- pening between this part and the insertion of cation cannot be properly fulfilled in persons, the masseter. In other instances, the fracture whose teeth are very irregular, it is sometimes occurs near the angles of the jaw, that is to say, between the insertion of the masseter and the root cf the coronoid process. The bone may also be broken in two places at the same time; in which event, the middle portion is extremely difficult to keep right, because many of the muscles, which draw the lower jaw downwards, are attached to that part. The condyles and coronoid processes are also sometimes broken; the former the most fre- quently. Fractures of the lower jaw may be either per- pendicular to its basis, objique, or longitudinal: of the latter, examples have been known, in which a portion of the alveolar process with the teeth in it, was detached from the rest of the bone. The soft parts are generally contused and wounded. J. L. Petit mentions one case, in which the bone was broken, and the coronoid process quite denuded, by the kick of a horse. Fractures of the lower jaw are subject to dis- placement in the following way. When the fracture is near the symphysis, the side on which the ,processus innominatus is situated is drawn downward and backward by the sub-maxillary muscles, while the other fragment is supported by the muscles which close the jaw. When the fracture is more backward, the displacement occurs in the same way, but not so easily. When the bone is fractured in two places, the middle portion is always pulled downwards and back- wards by the muscles attached to the chin, while the two lateral pieces are kept up by the levator muscles. When the ramus of the jaw is broken, the masseter, being attached to both pieces, pre- vents any considerable degree of displacement. When the neck of the condyle is fractured, the pterygoideus externus may pull the condyle forwards. When a blow is received on the lower jaw, or the bone is injured by a fall, or by the pres- sure of some heavy body; when an acute pain is experienced in the part, and an inequality can be felt at the basis of the bone; when some of the teeth, corresponding to that inequality, are lower than the others; and when a crepitus is perceptible on moving the two pieces of the jaw on each other ; there can be no doubt of a frac- ture. When the gums are lacerated, or the bone denuded by a wound, the case is (if possible) still more manifest. Fractures of the rami and condyles produce great pain near the ear, particularly when the jaw is moved; and a crepitus may also be felt. Fractures of the lower jaw, whether simple or double, are easily set, by pushing the displaced part upward, and a little forward, and then press- ing on the basis of the bone, so as to bring it exactly on a level with the portion, which has preserved its natural position. Indeed, the cor- necessary to interpose an even piece of cork between the teeth on each side of the mouth, and against this cork the lower jaw is to be kept up with the bandage presently noticed, while the aperture left between the incisores in the situation where no cork is placed, allows food and medicines to be introduced with a . small spoon. As soon as the fracture is set, the surgeon should adapt some thick pasteboard, previously wet and softened with vinegar, to the outside of the jaw, both along its side and under its basis. Over this moistened pasteboard, a bandage with four tails is to be applied, the centre being placed on the patient’s chin, while the two pos- terior tails are to be pinned to the front part of a nightcap, and the two anterior ones fastened to a part of the same cap more backward. When the pasteboard becomes dry, it forms the most convenient apparatus imaginable for surround- ing and supporting the fracture. A piece of soap-plaster may notv be applied to the skin underneath, which will prevent any ill effects of the hardness and pressure of the pasteboard. Until the bone is firmly united, the patient should be allowed only such food as does not require mastication, and it may be given by means of a small spoon introduced between the teeth. Broths, soups, ^jellies, tea, and other slops, appear most eligible. In order to keep the middle portion of the bone from being drawn downwards and back- wards towards the larynx, it is frequently neces- sary to apply tolerably thick compresses just under and behind the chin ; which are to be well supported by the bandage already described. I need hardly state the necessity of enjoining the patient to avoid talking, or moving the jaw more than can possibly be avoided. When the condyle is fractured, as it is inces- santly drawn forward by the action of the ptery- goideus externus, and, on account of its deep situation, cannot be pressed back, the lower por- tion must, if possible, be pushed into contact with it. For this purpose, the bandage must be made to operate particularly on the angle of the jaw, where a thick compress should be placed. Compound fractures of the lower jaw are to be treated on the same principles, as .similar in- juries of other bones. If possible, the external wound should be healed by the first intention ; and, when this attempt fails, care must be taken to keep the wound clean by changing the (press- ings about once in three days; but not oftener, lest the fracture suffer too much disturbance. It is observed, that compound fractures of the jaw, and even simple ones, which are followed by abscesses, are particularly liable to be succeeded by troublesome and tedious exfoliations. In very bad fractures, in which all motion of