943 PROSTATE GLAND. Mr. Hunter first pointed out a fact, which the tctical surgeon should never forget, viz. that s swelling of what is now called the middle >e of the prostate gland, often raises the sound er a small stone in the bladder, and prevents from being felt. (On the Venereal Disease, 170.) Hunter also first noticed another cir- mstance well deserving recollection, viz. that enlargement of the same part may account for ti disappearance of all the symptoms of stone patients, who have already suffered greatly >m them, as the swelling prevents the calculi nn falling down upon, and irritating, the neck : the bladder. These truths are exemplified by ises, which are highly interesting. It appears , so probable, from the observations of Sir ■ verard Home, that an enlargement of the iddle lobe conduces to the formation and idgment of calculi in the bladder, partly by pre- •mting the evacuation of small ones through the •ethra, and partly by hindering the bladder from ompletely discharging its contents. (Vol. 1, 40.) Lastly, it is explained, that, in disease the prostate gland, patients secrete less urine, inn natural, and that death is sometimes pro- aced by the retention of urine suppressing such jcretion altogether. In cases of enlargement f the middle lobe, one symptom, on which Sir 1 verard Home lays great stress, is hemorrhage roduced by riding on horseback. ( Vol. 2, p. 27.) nflammation and even ulceration of the mem- rane covering the middle lobe, he says, are lore frequent, than he was at first aware of, and re produced by the rough introduction of in- .ruments. Hence, the burning heat at the neck ) f the bladder, the great pain and distress at- rnding the passage and the continuance of an istrument, the occasional necessity of taking it ut, and the duration of the pain for some time fterwards. (Vol. cit. p. 29.) According to Mr. Wilson, in a case of what i named scirrhous prostate gland, the enlarge- lent at first takes place slowly, attended with lain, and no particular alteration of the structure s apparent in the gland, when examined in this itage after death, nor is any change discoverable, vhen the part is felt from the rectum in the living latient. As the disease proceeds, the structure if the whole gland changes, and the part en- 1 arges, sometimes regularly so as to preserve its diape, to the size of a moderate orange; some- l .imes very irregularly, projecting in a lobulated nanner. When the gland in this state is cut into, its substance feels firm, the cut surface is of a whitish brown colour, and the membranous ' iepta, extending through it in various directions, •nre often very strongly marked. In general, I* before the urethra and bladder are opened, the gland appears most enlarged laterally. It also swells backwards towards the rectum, producing that ap|>earance of the excrement particularly noticed by J. L. Petit, and already mentioned in speaking of common inflammation of the gland. Mr. Wilson further states, that its an- terior part is generally least enlarged, because its connexion with the pubes prevents it from passing far forward. However, this gentleman has seen some instances, in which the enlarge- ment above, or in front of the urethra, was con- siderable. The extent of the lateral and posterior swelling may lie readily felt with the finger, in- troduced within the rectum. That these very ir- regular windings in the prostatic portion of the urethra are frequently occasioned by the disease, is also confirmed by Mr. Wilson’s experience, and numerous preparations in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. “ In the progress of the enlargement, the two sides do not always swell equally; one* often enlarges most, and often swells more in one particular part than another. This produces a lateral bend, or ob- liquity in the passage, which will of course in- crease the difficulty of passing the urine, and of introducing the catheter. I have seen, from the irregularity of the lateral swelling, the passage through the gland bend in succession to both sides.” (J. Wilson on the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 332, 335.) As every considerable enlargement of the pro- state gland is attended with great difficulty of voiding the urine, the muscular coat of the blad- der always becomes more or less thickened, in consequence of the efforts, which it is obliged to make. In relation to the third, or middle lobe, it is to be observed, that from some dissections made by Mr. Shaw, it would appear, that, in many cases, the enlarged portion of the prostate, pro- jecting into the bladder, is not the third lobe, but a part of the gland situated more forwards. (See Bell's Surgical Ohs. Vol. 1, p. 223, <|’e.) According to Sir Everard Home, a stricture may be distinguished from an enlargement of the prostate gland, by the following circumstances : the distance of the obstruction from the external orifice is to be determined by passing a soft bougie, which is to be left in the canal for a minute, so as to receive an impression from the obstruction. If the bougie does not pass further than seven inches, and the end is marked by an- orifice of a circular form, (it is immaterial as to the size of the orifice,) the disease is certainly a stricture; but, if it passes further on, and the end is blunted, a disease in the prostate gland is to be suspected. This in general may be as- certained by the possibility of passing into the bladder a flexible gum catheter with a stilet, very much curved, which in most cases of en- largement of the gland may be accomplished. On the subject of the causes of a scirrhous en- largement of the prostate gland, it appears to me, that little certain is known, excepting that it is a disease seldom met with under the age of fifty. Desault suspected, that it was sometimes venereal, and common in individuals, who had repeatedly had gonorrhoea. (Traite dcs Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 238.) I believe, neither of these sentiments is entertained by the best surgeons of the present day. According to Sir Everard Home, it is a rare occurrence for a man to arrive at 80 years of age, without suffering more or less under disease of this part. “ The more common causes (says lie) of inflammation of the prostate gland, are full living of every kind, inebriety, indulgence to excess with wo- men, a confined state of the bowels, and ex- posure to the effects of cold; indeed, whatever increases the circulation of the blood in these parts (the genitals I suppose) beyond the healthy standard, raav become a cause of inflammation in this gland, the blood vessels ol which lose their tone in the latter periods of life.” (On Diseases