1056 TltU elastic scapulary ; in the second, the slipping of the pad upwards is to be prevented by the em- ployment of a thigh strap. When a patient is afflicted with a rupture on each side, the two protrusions rnav be very well kept up by means of a single truss, made with two pads, which are joined together, at the exact distance of the rings from each other, by a piece of steel, applied over the convexity of the symphysis of the pubes, and proportioned in length to the space between the two openings, through which the viscera descend. In such cases, however, it is absolutely necessary to have the spring stronger, than if there were only one rupture. The truss should also be put on that side of the body, upon which the hernia most difficult to retain is situated. There are some practitioners, however, who give the pre- ference to the use of two single trusses, joined together in front and behind with suitable straps. With respect to the application and use of trusses, the following instructions seem to merit attention. 1. A truss should never be first applied, or changed, except when the patient is in the hori- zontal posture, and it is known, with certainty, that all the contents of the rupture are completely reduced. 2. The first applications of a truss should always be made under the superintendency of the surgeon himself; and care should be taken to put on the instrument in such a manner, that the lower third of the pad will compress the neck of the hernial sac against the os pubis, while the upper portion will compress the abdominal ring. The surgeon should also make the patient ac- quainted with the right mariner of applying the truss; the principles on which it keeps up the bowels, and affords a chance of a radical cure; the requisite cautions to be observed, &c. When a patient first begins to wear a truss, he should be particularly careful not to be guilty of any imprudent exertions, and it behoves him to ob- serve most attentively, that the instrument does not slip from its proper situation. It will also be necessary for him to pay attention to the instrument being neither too tight, nor too loose. 3. The patient ought to be provided with at least two trusses, which should be changed every morning in bed. In order to save the truss, especially in fat persons who perspire a great deal, it is a good plan to lay a soft piece of calico under the pad. 4. An uneasiness about the ring, which always gives rise to a suspicion that a portion of intes- tine, or omentum, is protruded, makes it proper to take off the truss, carefully examine the parts, and reduce them if they have descended. 5. When the skin is excoriated by the truss, the part may be cured by sprinkling upon it the powder of acetite of lead, Fuller’s earth, lapis calaminaris, tScc. or bathing the part with an astringent lotion. It will also be right to protect the excoriated place with a piece of linen put under the truss. 6. When the pressure of the truss excites affections and swellings of the spermatic chord and testicle, either the thigh strap must be re- laxed, or the lower part of the pad made less TUM prondnent. And when strong pressure is ab- solutely necessary to keep the hernia reduced, the pad should have an excavation in it over the spermatic chord. Whoever wears a truss should be careful to employ it day and night, without interruption, so that there may be no oppor- tunity for the hernia to protrude again. If un- der the employment of a truss, the rupture once descends again, either a strangulation happens from the narrowness of the neck of the sac ; or, at all events, the hope of a radical cure, which may have been entertained for years and months, is destroyed in a moment; for, experience has put it beyond all doubt, that, by the continual unremitted use of a truss, and the steady reten- tion of the contents of the hernia, the neck of the hernial sac, and the ring, may be gradually lessened in diameter, until they are entirely- closed, and a radical cure of the rupture effected. This is more frequently observed in young sub- jects, seldom in adults, and scarcely ever in per- sons of advanced years. But trusses must be worn a long while; nor should the patient ven- ture to lay aside their use till after many cautious attempts; beginning the experiment at first only in the night time, and not making it in the day till after a considerable period from the time, when he first thinks himself safe. The longer and more attentively a truss is worn, the greater is the hope of a radical cure. (Calliscn, Sijst. Chir. Hod. T. 2.) In the 2d vol. of the last edition of the First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, the truss for navel ruptures, which was devised by Mr. Eag- land, and latterly preferred by Mr. Hey, is described; and in the article Hernia, an account is given of the truss for umbilical hernia, in- vented by Mr. Marrison, of Leeds, and described by Mr. Hey. In the same part of this Dictionary may also be found some observations, relative to the place, against which the pressure of the pads of trusses should be directed in cases of inguinal hernia, in conformity to Sir A. Cooper’s descrip- tion of the situation, at which the parts first pro- trude from the abdomen. TUMOR. A swelling. In the present arti- cle, I intend only to treat of, what are usually called, sarcomatous and encysted tumors. Mr- Abernethy thinks, that the manner in which tu- mors are formed is best illustrated by those, which hang pendulous from the membranous li- ning of different cavities. This gentleman ad- verts to an example noticed by Mr. Hunter, in which, on the cavity of the abdomen being opened, there appeared lying upon the perito- neum, a small portion of red blood recently co- agulated. This, on examination, was found to be connected with the surface, upon which it W* been deposited, by means of an attachment, an incli long, and this neck had been formed before the coagulmn had lost its red colour. (See Trans, for the Improvement of Med. end Chir. Knowledge, Vol. \, p. 231.) Mr. Aber nethv observes, that if vessels had shot through the slender neck, and organized the clot of bloc > this would then have become a living part: 1 might have grown to an indefinite magnitude, and its nature and progress would probably h* I depended on the organization, which it had a*' sumed. lie mentions his possession ot a pe?- t I i 1 f I