OPHTHALMY. 874 the organization of the eye, that the consequence is a loss of the eyeball, or such a dwindling of it, that the fissure of the eyelids becomes nearly closed. According to Beer’s experience, injuries of the foregoing kind, arising from accident, are mostly produced by the horns of cows. O.n the contrary, the eflusion ot the vitreous humour in operations upon the eye, he observes, is seldom followed by the loss of the eye. Kortum, in his Manual on the Diseases of the Eye, adverts to some instances, which he had seen, or fancies that he had seen, where the whole of the vitreous humour was lost, and yet the eyesight afterwards became as strong as if no such accident had happened. On the other hand, Beer has never met with any of these fortunate cases; but has always found the sight to be seriously impaired, when the quantity of vitreous humour lost has amounted to nearly its half, and that complete blindness was the result when the loss much ex- ceeded that quantity. He conceives also, that Kortum had probably seen but few cases of this nature, and therefore might have been mistaken, as to the proportion of the vitreous humour dis- charged, which to the inexperienced seems larger, than it really is, and he cautions surgeons not to promise too much in cases of this description. (A*. 1, p. 222.) See Cataract. Considerable injuries of the eyeball, com- plicated with a concussion, bruise, or actual wound of the retina, produce either gradually, or immediately an amaurosis, which is almost always incurable. When the concussion of the retina is less violent, and does not affect every part of this texture, it may occasion only an amaurotic weakness of sight. In worse cases, the surgeon may think himself very successful, if lie can prevent the figure of the eye from being de- stroyed by the subsequent inflammation, all idea of the recovery of the eyesight being out of the question. The treatment is the same as that commonly adopted, after operations for the re- moval of an opaque lens (see Cataract); but, there is one particular circumstance, sometimes attending injuries of the retina and ciliary neYves, claiming notice, viz. violent vomiting; a sym- ptom, which Beer says may even attend con- tusions of the sclerotica and of the ciliary nerves and retina, without any wound. Injuries of the ciliary nerves, he observes, are denoted by a very peculiar appearance ; for, near the injured part the iris is drawn up so close to the edge of the cornea, that its colour can scarcely be seen. When the surgeon is consulted in a case of this kind, though some inflammation may have com- menced, the prognosis is yet favourable, in re- gard to the preservation of the eye; for a gentle opiate will relieve the vomiting, when merely a nervous effect, not depending upon the loaded state of the gastric, organs; but, if the case be of this last description, the pritnac vise should first be emptied. However, when a traumautic inflammation is completely established, before the treatment is begun, the eye is generally de- stroyed, as the repeated and violent vomiting cause a great determination of blood to the head and eyes, and increase of the inflammation ; an effect, which the opiates, given for the relief of the vomiting, also tend to produce. Beer has seen two cases, in which the eye was pricked with a needle near the insertion of the external straight muscle into the sclerotica; jr, both instances, the punctures were so small, thaf they would scarcely have been found, bad noiL , the patients known their situation exactly by tlaf pain, and they were then only perceptible with 4u'. magnifying glass. The punctures were sooii, followed by a convulsive rolling of the eyeballKjfl and afterwards by trismus, which continued severity in one patient a day and a half, and in anotherlkti, two days, but yielded to large doses of musk atu» ?, opium given at short intervals, the warm batbj% and the application of warm poultices containing! hyoseiamus. As chemical injuries of the eye produce atw actual loss of substance, they are even morqfci serious than common mechanical lesions. How-*4j ever, chemical injuries of little extent are geij nerally repaired with tolerable facility and ex-.s pedition. Quietude of the organ, and mode-ti rating the outward noxious effects by lukewarm!* mucilaginous applications, either in the form oil; fomentations, or eye waters, are the only requisit^fa measures. If the cornea itself be hurt, as fre-j>; quently happens, when boiling hot fluids strike»4 the eye, a kind of vesicle arises on the injuredKt part, which becomes more and more white. The!'> vesicle either bursts of itself, or subsides withoutm. breaking. In both cases, the production of thetj conjunctiva, of which the cj-st of the vesicle isi j composed, shrivels up, and peels off, a new mem-tj* brane cf a similar nature being regenerated un-J-r derneath. An opaque speck is frequently ap-‘ } prehended; but, says Beer, if the surgeon willlj merely avoid being too much in a hurry to openil the vesicle, and not disturb the work of nature!*! by applying various remedies to the eye, there: i will be no danger of such an occurrence. More extensive chemical injuries of the eye, f which at first are not in themselves very se- vere, frequently become dangerous, in conse-: quence of care not being taken to prevent the; influence of external stimuli. To this class ofi cases belongs the accidental sprinkling of the eye with boiling fluids, or strmigish mineral acids. And, even in these examples, says Beer, the prognosis is not unfavourable, and a complete recovery may be effected, when the treatment is conducted according to the directions, already given with respect to such accidents in general. While this author approves of cutting away any substance, which is dead and partially detached, | he strongly cautions surgeons not to remove the thin layer of the conjunctiva, nor to puncture any vesicle, which may form. When the burning, or corrosion, is not limited to the conjunctiva of the eyeball, but extends to tiie lining of one or both eyelids, Beer re- commends covering the injured parts with muci- laginous applications, and mildly astringent oint- ments, containing tutty, or the white oxide of lead. In these cases, keeping the eye perfectly motionless must be hurtful, as it tends to pro- mote the formation of adhesions, either be- tween the eye and eyelids (Symblepharon\ or between the eyelids themselves (Anchyloble- pharon.) Extensive, deeply penetrating, chemical in- juries of the eyeball, Beer describes as being almost always followed by more or less impair- ment of the functions of the organ, or of some of its particular textures, because such accidents