803 MERCURY. Unions, anil to act with most certainty on the Venereal disease. Mercurial Fumigations. "We have mentioned this method, as being one ot tlie most ancient plans of affecting the consti- tution with mercury, and Lalonette and Aber- nethy have stated circumstances in its faV' ur, which Certainly render it sometimes a very eli- gible mode. '1 he latter is of opinion, that if the peculiar advantages of mercurial fumigations were generally known to practitioners, they would be much more frequently employed. The advantages of the method consist in its affecting the constitution, when other means have failed, and in producing its effects in a much shorter time than any other mode requires. How de- sirable this celerity of operation must often be, when venereal ulceration is making great ra- vages in the palate, throat, &c. it is needless to insist upon. In patients, who have not strength to rub in ointment, and whose bowels will not bear the internal exhibition of mercury, the mode of fumigation may prove of great service. “ In the year 1776, the Chevalier Lalonette, a physician at Paris, laid before the public an ac- count of a new mode of mercurial fumigation, free from the inconveniences of former ones, and which, in the space of thirty-five years, he had successfully employed in more than four hundred cases, that had resisted all the ordinary methods of cure. His method consisted in in- closing the patient, previously, undressed, in a kind of box resembling a sedan-chair, with an opening at the top to let out the head, and an- other at the bottom, to which was fitted a small grate or furnace, having in it a heated iron for converting the mercurial remedy into fume. The preparation he made use of was a kind of calomel, which, by repeated sublimation from iron filings, was so far deprived of its muriatic acid, as to be in part reduced into running quicksilver ; and, while it possessed considerable volatility, was perfectly unirritating. Some of ibis powder, being strewed upon the hot iron placed below, was immediately converted into smoke, which surrounded the patient’s body, and after some time settled on bis skin in the form of a white and very fine calx of quicksilver: a complete dress, having its inner surface fumi- gated with the same powder, was then put on.— The remedy being thus generally applied to the mouths of the cutaneous absorbents, soon got admission into the circulating fluids, and the constitution became thereby more speedily af- fected, than by any other process known before.’’ (Abernethy's Surgical and Physiological Es- says, Part 3.) As the fumigating powder used by M. Lalo- nette was very operose, and consequently a very expensive preparation, and appeared to have no advantage over one made bv abstracting the mu- riatic acid from calomel by means of ammonia, Mr. Abernethy has always employed the latter, which is prepared at the hospital in the following manner: Two drachms of liquor ammoniac arc added to six ounces of distilled water, and four ounces of calomel arc thrown into this liquor, and shaken up with it; the powder is afterwards separated bv a filter, and dried. The powder thus obtained is of a grey colour, and contains a good deal of quicksilver In Its mc-» tallic state, which of course is extremely volatile1, but becomes oxydated when raised into furne, and afterwards condensed into a white subtile powder. In local disease of the joints, such, for in- stance, as frequently takes place in the knee, and in sarcomatous enlargements of the breast in women, the late Mr. Sliaip and Sir C. Blieke were accustomed to direct nunigattd stockings, or under-waistcoats, to be worn ; by which these complaints were relieved, and the constitutions of the patients affected, without the trouble and unpleasantness arising from the use of the com- mon mercurial ointment. ' (See Alcrneihy's Surgical and, Physiological Essays, Part 5.) Mr. Pearson procured Lalonette’s machine-, and made a considerable number of experiments to determine the comparative advantages of this method, and mercurial frictions. He found, that the gurns became turgid and tender very quickly, and that the local appearances were sooner removed, than by the other modes of in- troducing mercury into the system ; but that it soon brought on debility, a rapid and premature salivation, and, of course, that the medicine could not be steadily continued This gentleman con- cludes, that where checking the progress erf tire disease suddenly is an object of great moment, where the body is covered with venereal ulcers, or where the eruptions are large and numerous, so that there scarcely remains a surface large enough to absorb the ointment, the vapour of mercury will he advantageous. But he thinks it extremely difficult thus to introduce a suf- ficient quantity of mercury into the system to secure the patient from a relapse, and therefore the plan by no means eligible as a general prac- tice. The vapour of mercury, he says, is singu- larly efficacious, when applied to venereal ulcers, fungi, and exeresenees; but this plan requires an equal quantity of mercury to be given in other ways, as if the local application itself were not a mercurial one. (Pearson on Lucs Ve- nerea, j>. 145, Sfc.) For the purpose of fumigating sores, the Iry- drargyri sulphuretum rubrum is commonly used. Ulcers and excrescences about the pudendum and anus in women are said to be particularly bene- fited in this way ; and in these cases the fumes are most conveniently applied by placing a red- hot heater at the bottom of a night-stool pan, and after sprinkling on it a few grains of the red sulphuret of quicksilver, placing the patient on the stool. On other occasions, a small appara- tus, sold at the shops, is used, which enables the surgeon to direct the fumes through a funnel against the ulcer in any situation. Though mention has just been made of vene- real excrescences, I am of opinion with Mr. Abernethy, that it is very questionable, whether any are ever really of this nature. I know, that many excrescences and verruca; about the amis, and parts of generation, diminish and arc cured by a course of mercury. This is the only argu- ment in favour of their being venereal ; for, when tied, cut oft; or made to fall oft’by stimu- lating them with pulv. sabinre and thesubacetatc of copper, they arc as effectually cured, ns if mercury had been given. In the military hos- pital alCuuibray, I remember a man, onvhose