569 HEAD. Sclmiucker ascribed a good already explained, . . . . deal of the success with which lie treated injuries of the head. It is favourably mentioned by Ur. Henneu, and has received the recommendation of another modern writer, whose opinion must have great weight: “ In the inflammation, which succeeds slowly to injuries'of the head, a species of inflammation not more insidious in its ap- proach, than dangerous in its consequences, cold is bv far the most efficacious remedy, that has yet been discovered.”, (See Thomson s Lectures on Inflammation, p 181.) Both tables of the skull sometimes exfoliate in consequence of external violence. The dead bone must be removed, as soon as loose; and, ii necessary, the scalp divided lor the purpose. into their • i 3. Fissures and Fractures of the Cranium, without Depression. Fractures of the cranium are divisible “ those, in which the broken parts keep proper level, or equality of surface, with the rest of the skull, and those in which they do not; or, in other words, fractures without depression, and fractures with. 11 These two distinctions are all which are reallv necessary to be made, and will be found to comprehend every violent division of the parts of the skull (not made by a cutting instrument) from the finest capillary fissure, up to the most complicated fracture.” No truth in surgery is now better understood, and established, than that the bad symptoms very frequentlv accompanying a broken skull, are not produced bv the breach made in the bone; nor in- dicate such breach to have been made. “ They proceed, (as Mr. Pott correctly observes.) from an affection of the brain, or from injury done to some of the parts within the cranium, independent of any ill which the bones composing it may have sus- tained. Thev aie occasioned by violence offered to the contents of the head in general; are quite independent of the mere breach made in the 1 bone; and either do or do not accompany frac- ture, as such fracture may happen to be, or not. to be complicated, with such other ills. “ Thev are frequently produced by extravasa- tions of blood, or serum, upon, or between the membranes of the brain; or by shocks, or con- cussions of its substance, in cases where the skull is perfectly intire and unhurt. On the other hand, the bones of the skull are sometimes cracked, broken, nay, even depressed, and the patient suffers none of these symptoms. In short, as the breach made in the bone is not, nor can be the cause of such complaints, they ought not to be attributed to it; and that for reasons, which .are by no means merely speculative. For the practitioner who supposes, that such symptoms do necessarily and certainly imply, that the cranium is fractured, must regulate his conduct by such supposition, and remove the scalp, very often without either necessity or benefit; that is, without discovering whnt he looks for; anti, on the other hand, if he does find the skull to be broken, believing all these complaints to be caused by, and dedneible from the fracture, he will most probably pay his whole attention to that supposed cause, and may think, that when he has done what the rules of hiff art prescribe for such case, he has done all that is in his power: — an opinion not unfrequently embraced; and which has been the destruction of many a patient. For, as on one hand, the loss of sense, speech, and voluntary motion, as well as the he- morrhage from the nose, ears, &c. are some- times totally removed by, or at least disappear, during the use of free and frequent evacuation, without any operation on the scalp or skull: so, on the other, as these symptoms and appearances are not produced by the solution of continuity of the bone, they cannot be remedied by such ehirurgic treatment as the mere fracture may require. “ If any one doubts the truth of this doctrine, (continues Mr. Pott,) I would desire him to con- sider the nature, as well as most generally suc- cessful method of treating these symptoms; and at the same time, to reflect seriously on the ope- ration of the trepan, as practised in simple, un- depressed fractures of the skull. “ The sickness, giddiness, vomiting, and loss of sense and motion, can only be the conse- quence of an affection of the brain, as the com- mon sensorium. They may be produced by its 'having been violently shaken, by' a derangement of its medullary structure, or by unnatural pres- sure made by a fluid extravasated on its surface, or within its ventricles; but never can be caused bv the mere division of the bone, 'considered ah- straetedly); which division, in a simple fracture, can neither press on, nor derange the structure of the parts within the cranium. “ If the solution of continuity in the bone be cither produced by such a degree of violence, as hath caused a considerable disturbance in the medullary' parts of the brain, or has disturbed any of the functions of the nerves going off from it; or has occasioned a breach of any vessel, or vessels, whether sanguine or Em- phatic, and that hath been followed by an ex- travasation, or lodgment of fluid ; the symptoms necessarily consequent upon such derangement, or such pressure, will follow:-but they do not follow, because the bone is broken, their causes are superadded to the fracture, and, although produced by' the same external violence, are yet perfectly and absolutely' independent of it: so much so, that they are frequently found where no fracture is. “ The operation of the trepan is frequentlv performed in the case of simple fractures, and that very judiciously and properly; but it is not performed, because the bone is broken or cracked: a mere fracture, or fissure of the skull, can never require perforation, or that the dura mater under it be laid bare; the reason for doing this, springs from other causes than the fracture, and those really'independent of it: they spring from the natuie of the mischief which the parts within the cranium have sustained, and not from the ac- cidental division of the bone. From these arise the threatening symptoms; from these all the hazard; and from these, the necessity', and vin- dication of performing the operation of the trepan, “ If a simple fracture of the cranium was un- attended in present with any of the before-men- tioned symptoms, and there was no reason for apprehending any other evil in future, that is, if the solution of continuity in the bone was the whole disease, it could not possibly indicate any' other curative intention, but, the general one in