TREPHINE. 1049 ortion of bone, which pressed upon the lon- [ idinal sinus, and made the patient quite co- I lose The depressed piece of the cranium I Id not have been so advantageously raised, [ the trepan been applied in any other situa- ' !. But a still stronger argument, in favour ) his practice, when the case at all requires it, | ie fact, that wounds of the longitudinal sinus, the hemorrhage resulting from them, are not • nded with any serious danger. Sharp men- tis his having twice seen a bleeding of this .1. Another instance is also recorded in rner’s Cases. A child received a wound on II forehead: the two parietal bones were frac- * id, and a portion of each was depressed on dura mater. The child lived a month, with- any operation being done; but, at the end i his time, Warner applied the trepan. He c id a splinter of bone sticking in such a way i the longitudinal sinus, that it could not ly be got out; consequently, he enlarged i a lancet the opening, in which the splinter entangled. The hemorrhage, which was ; ions, was easily suppressed by the application i little dry lint, and the child was relieved, .ugh it died at the end of two months, after ering a variety of symptoms, which had no nexion with the wound of the sinus, the ning of which soon healed. The fourth case, ited by IVIarehettis, also proves, that wounds he longitudinal sinus are not fatal. Pott and lisen have since recorded other facts, tend- to the same conclusion. (See Syst. Chir. diernce, Parts \ ,p. 659, Edit. 1798.) Whenever a depressed fracture can be elevated ts proper level, without applying the trephine, with the mere aid of a pair of forceps, or an irator, trephining should never be performed, sss there be strong reason to apprehend, t blood, or matter, lodged on the surface of dura mater, contributes to the production of bad symptoms, and ought to be discharged. ! The scalp having been divided, if necessary, ; j the pericranium scraped from the surface of bone, according to the common precepts, and I ctice, the next thing is the application of the i wn of the trephine. The surgeon is first to make a little im- ; ssion with the point of the centre-pin, for i purpose of marking the place, where it will 1 k, when the crown of the trephine is applied the proper situation; for, where such im- ?sion is made, the operator must make a .11 hole with a perforator, in order to fix the •it of the centre-pin, on which the crown of | instrument turns backward and forward, as If an axis, during the first stage of the opera- 1. Mr. Savigny’s centre-pins make a per- tion, without need of any particular instru- ct for the purpose, and, in this respect, are antageous. ihe point of the centre-pin having been fixed, I trephine is to be turned, by regular semi- ular motions, alternately to the right and . which object is effected by steady pronations supinations of the operator’s hand. The h of the saw having made a tolerable circular ove, in which they can steadily work, the tre-pin becomes useless, and, as it would, if withdrawn, or removed, certainly injure the i mater and brain, by reason of it* projecting further, than any other part of the instrument, it would be an unpardonable blunder to let it re- main, after a proper circular groove has been formed by the teeth of the saw. The beginning of the sawing may he executed boldly and quickly ; for, the operator runs no hazard of doing mischief. It is necessary oc- casionally, with a view of facilitating the action of the instrument, to clean away the particles of bony matter, with a little brush, usually kept for the purpose in every box of trephining instru- ments. Were this plan neglected, the action of the cylindrical saw would be very much clogged. The operator, however, must increase his cau- tion, when the sawing has made greater pro- gress; for, were he to be too bold, he might sometimes lacerate the membranes of the brain with the teeth of the instrument, particularly, as the thickness of the cranium is subject to infinite variety, both in different parts of the same head, and in different subjects. Let the surgeon, therefore, never forget to examine frequently with the point of a quill, whether any part of the circular groove is cut through or nearly so; for, when this is the case, the instrument must only be worked in such a way, as to make pressure upon, and cut, the part of the circle, which yet remains to be divided. In some few cases, it is said, that the surgeon can distinctly feel, when the teeth of the saw reach the diploe, or medul- lary structure, between the two tables of the cra- nium, and some writers have rashly directed us to saw with boldness, till the sensation of this oc- currence is communicated to our hand and fin- gers. However, I believe, this possibility of discriminating the arrival of the teeth of the saw at the diploe is so uncommon, and so fallacious, that it should never be expected, or relied on. Nor ought the surgeon to saw with incautious force and rapidity, till he sees the teeth of the trephine bloody, which appearance has been set down as another criterion of their having reached the diploe. I have already stated, that a great many skulls have hardly any space be- tween several parts of the two tables. This is particularly often the case in old persons. A prudent man will always prefer exerting a little force for the purpose of breaking some of the bony connexion, retaining the circular piece of bone, to running any hazard of injuring the dura mater, by sawing too deeply. After a cer- tain time, therefore, it is better to lay down the trephine, and endeavour to elevate the portion of bone, with the aid of a pair of forceps, construct- ed for the purpose, and kept in most cases of trephining instruments, or else by means of an elevator, which is still more calculated for the purpose. When the circular piece of bone has been taken out, and the edges of the perforation are unequal, and splintered, the irregularities are to be cut off with the lenticular knife. When there is extravasated blood underneath the opening which has been made, it sometimes spontaneously makes its escape, and, if it should not do so, the surgeon must remove it himself. If one perfo- ration of the skull should not suffice for letting out the blood, as much more of the cranium ought to be removed with the trephine, ns cir- cumstances may require; there being no com- parison between the danger of repeating the np- .1