474 FRACTURES. improvement in modern surgery. Dr. Physic had an opportunity of performing the new opera- tion on the 18th December, 1802, in an ex- ample oi disunited humerus, twenty months after the occurrence of the accident. “ Before passing the needle (says Dr. Physic) I desired the as- sistants to make some extension of the arm, in order that the seton might be introduced, as much as possible, between the ends of the bone, borne lint and a pledget were applied to the orifices made by the seton needle, and secured by a roller. The patient suffered very little pain from the operation. After a few days, the in- flammation, (which was not greater than what is commonly excited by a similar operation through the flesh of any other part) was suc- ceeded by a moderate suppuration. The arm was now again extended, and splints applied. The dressings were renewed daily for twelve weeks, during which time/ no amendment was perceived; but, soon afterwards, the bending of the arm at the fracture was observed not to be so easy as it had been, and the patient complained of much more pain, than usual, whenever an at- tempt was made to bend it at that place. From this time, the formation of the new bony union went on rapidly, and on the 4th of May, 1803, , was so perfectly completed, that the patient could move his arm in all directions, as well as before the accident happened. The seton was now re- moved, and the small sores occasioned by it healed up entirely in a few days. On the 28th of May, 1803, he was discharged from the hos- pital perfectly well, and he has since repeatedly told me, his arm is as strong as ever it was.” (Ph!/.«>, in Medical Repository, Vol. 1, New York) On this subject an interesting memoir was read by Laroche to the Ecole de Medecinc at Paris (Germinal, an 13). It was entitled “ Dis- sertation sur la non reunion ile quelqi/es fractures, et en parliculier de cclles du bras, et sur nn moyen nouveau de guerir It s f muses articulations qni en resullentP' The author of this production affirms, that, when he was at Augsburg, he saw Baron Percy, then with the army of the Rhine, pass a seton through the imperfectly healed cicatrix of a compound fracture of the thigh, which fracture seemed to have lost all disposition to unite. The method answered so well, that in two months the patient was able to walk without crutches. The French assert, that this operation was done when no knowledge of Dr. Physic’s case had reached France. Mr. Brodie has also successfully employed the seton in a case of ununited broken thigh. The patient was a boy, about 13. (See Med. Vhir. Trans. Vol. b, p. 387, <po.) In this country, the same operation has been practised for the cure of a disunited humerus by Mr. Stansfield, of Leeds. (See Op. at. Vol. 7, )>. It)3, dif<-) It appears, also, that Mr. Charles Bell applied the method to a fracture of the leg, at the time when Roux was in England. The patient was a child six years old, and the broken bones had continued without union three years. The case had been originally mistaken by some unskilful surgeon for a mere contusion. Roux knew not whether the operation succeeded or not. (Parallc-e de la Chir. Angloise, fyc.p. 195.) We are not to expect, however, that Dr. Physic’s new operation will succeed in every in- stance. Like most other surgical means, it is liable to occasional failures, amongst which, I believe, we must include the attempt, made on a disunited thigh by Mr. Wardrop, (Ste Med. Chir. 'J'runs. Vol. 5, p. 365.) though a partial amendment is mentioned. Mr. Hutchison was also obliged to take out the seton, in a case of ununited humerus, and no cure was effected. (See Practical Ob>. p. 162.) Another instance of failure has likewise been mentioned to me. FRACTURES OF THE OSSA NASI. These bones, from their situation, are much exposed to fractures. The fragments are some- times not deranged ; but, most frequently, they are depressed. In order to replace them, the surgeon must pass a female catheter, a ring- handled forceps, or any such instrument, into the nostrils, and, using it as a lever, push the fragments outwards: while, with the index- finger of the left hand, he prevents them from being pushed out too far. When the fragments are disposed to fall inwards again, some authors advise supporting them with an elastic gum can- nula, or lint, introduced into the nostril; but I am inclined to believe with Mr. C. Bell, that no tubes can be employed so as to support the broken bones; and when these have been replaced, they will not readily change their position, as they are acted upon by no muscles. (See Operative Surgery, T. 2, p. 222.) Besides, as Delpeeh remarks, since the tubes cannot reach the fragments, they cannot support them, and they must be attended with all the inconvenience of foreign bodies placed in con- tact with parts already inflamed, or about to be- come so. (Precis ties Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 222.) As fractures of the ossa nasi are the result of falls, and direct blows on the face, the soft parts are always either very much contused or wounded. Fractures of the ossa nasi are sometimes attended with very dangerous symptoms; de- pending either upon the concussion of the brain, produced by the same blow, which caused the fracture; or, on the cribriform lamella and the crista galli of the os ethmoides being driven in- wards so as to injure and compress the brain. This last danger, however, some modern surgeons consider as void of foundation, and whenever the symptoms indicate an affection of the brain, the nature of the case is referred to the intimate con- nexion between the bones of the nose and the os frontis. (Delpeeh, Piecis des Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 22!, 8ik. Paris, 1816.) When there are symptoms of pressure on this organ, (see Head, Injuritstf,) and the ossa nasi are much depressed, the surgeon must im- mediately raise them, and endeavour to draw gently forwards the perpendicular process of the os ethmoides, which is connected with the cri- briform lamella and crista galli. Perhaps, a pair of closed common forceps introduced into each nostril, might best enable the surgeon to do what is necessary. Bleeding and the antiphlogistic treatment are always proper; for, the vicinity of the eye renders it liable to become inflamed; and when there are symptoms of injury of the