AMPUTATION. 51 requiring profound attention, and the brightest talents. ° The most expert operator (as Mr. O’Halloran observes) may not always be the best surgeon. To do justice to the sick and our- selv.s, we must, in many cases, rather avoid than perform capital operations; and with re- spect to amputation, if we consider the many cases, in which it has been unnecessarily under- taken, or done at unseasonable periods, it may be suspected, that this operation, upon the whole, may have done more mischief than good. At all events, it is not enough for a surgeon to know hmv to operate; he must also know when to do it. (See 0 Hullorun on Gangrene and Sphacelus: prcjuct.) For such reasons, I shall first take a view of the circumstances, under which, the best sur- geons deem amputation necessary: though it may be proper to observe, that, in each of the articles, relative to the particular diseases and injuries, which ever call for the operation, ad- ditional information will be offered. 1. Compound fractures. In a compound fracture, the necessity for am- putation is not altogether proportioned to the seriousness of the accident, but, also frequently depends in part upon other circumstances. For example, in the field and on board of a crowded ship, it is not constantly in the surgeon’s power to pay such attention as the cases demand, nor to procure for the patient the proper degree of rest and good accommodation. In the field, there is often a necessity for transporting the wounded from one place to another. Under these circumstances, it is proper to have imme- diate recourse to amputation, in numerous cases of bad compound fractures, some of which, per- haps, might not absolutely demand the operation, were the patients so situated, as to be capable of receiving all the advantages of the best and most scientific treatment in a well ventilated quiet house, or hospital, furnished with every desir- able convenience. At the same time, daily experience proves, that there are many other cases, in which it would be improper to have re- course to the knife, even under the most un- favourable circumstances of the above descrip- tion. So, when a compound fracture occurs, in which the soft parts have not been considerably injured; in which the bones have been broken in such a direction that they can be easily set and kept in their proper position, or in which there is only one bone broken, amputation would be un- necessary and cruel. But, when the soft parts have been more extensively hurt, and the bones have been so badly broken, that perfect quietude and incessant care are required to afford any chance of recovery, it is a good general rule to amputate whenever these advantages cannot be obtained. . 1 he bad air in crowded hospitals and large cities, a circumstance so detrimental to wounds in general, is another consideration which may seriously lessen the chances of saving a badly broken limb, and should be remembered in weighing the reasons for and against amputation. On this part of the subject, I find the senti- ments of Graefe interesting : besides an absolute, ’ays he, there is a relative, necessity for ampu- tation : it is the most mournful, aqd proceeds altogether from unfavourable external circum- stances, though, alas! in many cases nearly un- avoidable, when life is to be preserved. In war, every bloody action furnishes proof of what has been stated. The number of the wounded is im- mense ; the number of surgeons for the duty too limited. The supplies most needed are at a distance. In these emergencies, though the military surgeon may from routine and genius be able to suggest the quickest method of obtain- ing what is wanted, know how to avail himself'of every advantage, which circumstances permit, and to contrive tolerable substitutes for such things as are deficient, yet, this will not always do. Were we (says Graefe) here to complain of the Prussian government not providing due assistance for the defenders of our native soil, to many the remon- strance would only appear reasonable. Yet, they7 who manage the medical affairs of the Prussian army may not constantly7 have it in their power to avert the inconvenience. The general cannot foretel the number and nature of the wounds, which may happen, so as to enable the medical department to take with them exactly the apparatus required, without encumbering the army with a redundance of useless articles. The enemy, perhaps, captures the medical stores ; or the rapid movements of particular corps cut us off'from the principal depots. Detachments often skirmish at remote points. The hospitals may lie several miles in the rear of the line; and, for want of means, the transport of the imperfectly dressed wounded may continue night and day. Hardly are the sufferers brought into the nearest hospital, in the most pitiful state from pain, anxiety, and cold, when an order is given to break up, and they must be conveyed still further towards their grave; and a thousand other cir- cumstances, as Graefe observes, which deprive the wounded of the requisite attendance, and es- sential number of surgeons, together with the most necessary stores, make it desirable to sim- plify every wound as much as possible; which, indeed, is the only means of shunning the re- proach, that while we are endeavouring to save one man’s limb, we let another die. Who doubts, says Graefe, that a soldier with a gunshot wound, complicated with a smashed state of the bones, may sometimes be saved, without loss of his limb, by employing all the means, which the resources of surgery offer? But these very resources are often wanting in a campaign ; and the business of dressing the patient would occupy the surgeon several hours daily, during which lus useful assistance could not be extended to other sufferers. Notwithstanding the utmost care, the removal of patients from one place to another frequently makes their wounds extremely dan- gerous, or fatal; and we now lose many7 a man, who, had he undergone amputation, would have been able to bear the journey. (See Naimtnfur die Ablosung grb'Serer Gtndmassen, p. 15. 16.) From what I have seen of the ill effects of moving patients with bad compound fractures of the lower extremity, produced by gunshot violence, I am convinced, that, as a general rule, it is better to perform amputation ; but, if this be not done, and an attempt is to be made to save the member, it will be more humane, when the army is retreating, and the enemy are not savages, to leave sqch wounded behind, than sub-