5fc)I HEMERALOPIA. uity of Montpellier, (Sauvagc, JVosolog. Me- ad. T. 2, P-732,-) ut Belle-Isle sur Mer, Rccueil d’Observ. dc Medeciuc des Hopitaux ilitaircs, par Richard, 7.2, jp. 57 3;) anil lice, it is endemic in watery situations, where e nights are cold and damp. They who ex- se themselves to this humidity, (says M. •issus), or who navigate along the eastern ists of Africa, who traverse the Mozambic ml, or sail along the coasts of Malabar and romandel, are sometimes attacked by it. Pathologic Chirurgicale, Tom. Si, p. 542, 3.) Hemeralopia sometimes occurs as a nptom of the scurvy. This fact was noticed Mr. Telford, in Sir G. Blane’s Treatise on ceases of Seamen, and it is likewise con- aed by Mr. Bamptield, who remarks, that he- ralopia should be referred to the same causes icurvy, “ when the subject of it has for a long iod subsisted on a salted diet at sea, &c. and ny other scorbutic symptom be present, such spongy gums, ecchymoses, saline smell of the retions, ulcers with liver-like fungus, Ac.” Jedico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 45 ) L'his disease (according to Scarpa) may com- lly be completely cured, and oftentimes in a v short time, by treating it on the same plan which the imperfect amaurosis is remedied; : Amaurosis ,*) viz. by employing emetics, resolvent powders, and pills, and a blister on nape of the neck ; and topically, the vapours le caustic volatile alkali: lastly, by prescrib- towards the end of the treatment, bark con- 'd with valerian. In cases, in which the ise has been preceded by plethora, and sup- sed perspiration, bleeding and sudorifics are indicated. {Cap. 19,p. 322—333.) carpa supports this statement by the relation iree cases, in which he cured the disease by treatment These patients were all un- -.hy, and evidently labouring under disorder ie gastric organs. ne hundred cases, however, of idiopathic, two hundred of symptomatic hemeralopia, rred in the practice of Mr. Bampfield, in rent parts of the globe, but chiefly in the Indies. All these cases perfectly recovered: hence, we may infer, that, under proper menC, a favourable prognosis may always ven. arpa notices, that the ancients have strongly amended, for the cure of this disease, the Rations of a sheep’s liver fried. These were ted against the eyes through a funnel; and ver, thus prepared, was also directed to be • Even in Italy, according to Scarpa, this ly in general obtains confidence, not only the vulgar, but also with surgeons. : writers add, that it is productive of won- 1 success among the Chinese, who are said very liable to this complaint. Scarpa says, s no observation of his own to offer in sup- o! this account; but, the plan was tried ut success in a boy, whom Scarpa cured by c and aperient medicines, and the amrno- 1 vapours. Lus has stated, that persons who have been >ome time affected with amaurosis, have n,-’d their sight on being attacked by a nra. 11,is stJt.,ns to Scarpa to be corrobo- hy the case, related by Doctor i’ye. (Med. Ubs. aiul hup Vol. 1.) A man, forty years of age, says he, had been affected for two months with periodical amaurosis, which, for a certain time, had occurred regular y every evening, but afterwards came on irregularly, at different in- tervals, with considerable dilatation of the pupil, and such obscuration of sight on the approach of night, that even the light of a candle could not be discerned. The man was seized with a diarrhoea. Doctor Pye ordered him to take, for eight successive days, a potion with the kali praeparatum ; then he prescribed an electuary, composed of bark, nutmeg, and sirup of orange- peel. The two latter ingredients were added to the bark, on account of the continuance of the diarrhoea. The second day after the electuary had been taken, the diarrhoea increased, and the patient vomited copious!)’; after which he sud- denly recovered Ills sight, so as to see equally well by day and by night. As the diarrhoea continued, the electuary was omitted, after ha- ving been taken two days. A violent fever suc- ceeded the diarrhoea, and, it was remarked that, during the highest stage of the former, the pa- tient became rather deaf, but without losing bis sight in the night or day-time. Dr. Pye does not mention what steps were taken to moderate the fever, which proved fatal to the patient. At all events, adds Scarpa, it is a fact, that this spontaneous laxness of the bowels entirely freed the man from an imperfect periodical amaurosis. Scarpa entertains no doubt, that, by looking attentively into the numerous collections of medi- cal observations, one might find in them a great many facts similar to the preceding one, showing the influence of what he terms morbific gastric stimuli over the organ of sight, and, conse- quently, the great utility of a spontaneous loose- ness of the bowels in the cure of the imperfect amaurosis. But, says Scarpa, even if such examples of the incomplete amaurosis being dissipated in conse- quence of spontaneous vomiting, or copious eva- cuations from the bowels, produced entirely by na- ture, were rare, and noticed by few, we now have so many observations, evincing the successful cure of this disease by means of such evacuations, artificially produced by emetics, and purgative medicines, that no doubt whatever can be enter- tained, concerning the accuracy of the second part of Celsus’s admonition, relative to the pre- sent view of the imperfect amaurosis: et recenti re, et interposito tempore, medicamentis quoque moliri dejecliones, qum omnem noxiam mate- riam per inferiora depellant. Of this Scarpa remarks, we undoubtedly have numerous, satis- factory proofs, in the accurate observations, re- lated by Schmucker and Richter; but our confi- dence, says Scarpa, in the above method of curing the imperfect and periodical amaurosis, must increase, when we take notice, that the most respectable practitioners of past times, have, in the majority of cases, cured this disease only by means of emetics, and opening me- cines, though, in their writings, they may have imputed the success of the treatment to other causes, or the efficacy of other remedies, which were also prescribed. Scarpa, after several valuable remarks on amaurosis in general, refers to the Mercury dc France, lor February, 1750’, where there is an