FRACTURES. .100 it, together with more or less tumefaction round the joint, are observable. When the blow has been very violent, or a pointed piece of the bone protrudes through the flesh, these accidents may lie complicated with a wound, splinters of bone, &c. Former writers consider the communication of a fracture with a joint, a fatal kind of com- plication. Swelling and inflammation of the ad- jacent parts; continuance of pain after the re- duction; large abscesses; even mortification of the soft parts, and caries of the bones, are, ac- cording to such authors, the almost inevitable consequences of these fractures, and anchylosis the most favourable termination. Pare, Petit, Heister, Duvernev, all give this exaggerated picture. However, analogous fractures of the olecranon and patella prove, that this representa- tion is magnified beyond truth. Modern observa- tion has dispelled the ancient doctrine of the effusion of callus into the joint, and with it one of the principal causes, assigned by authors for the symptoms so much dreaded. The communication of the cavity of the joint with the external air might be thought to have more real influence; but, this can only occur in compound fractures, and Desault had often learned from experience, that the contact of air is not so dangerous, as has been supposed. The general cause of all the ill consequences, seen in former times, was erroneous treatment, as may be inferred from the success which at- tended the extensive practice of Desault. The detached condyles, being drawn in opposite directions by the muscles of the arm and fore- arm, commonly remain unmoved between these two powers, and are but little displaced. External force may, however, put them out of their proper situation, and they may then be displaced forward, or backward, or they may separate from each other sideways, leaving an interspace between them. Plence, the apparatus should resist them in these four directions, and this object is easily accom- plished by means of four splints, kept on with a roller. The two lateral splints are particularly necessary, when the condyles are separated from the body of the bone, with an interspace between them. If one of them be still continuous with the humerus, no splint on this side will be re- quisite. The apparatus need not extend as high as when the arm is fractured higher up. Of what avail, in steadying the fractured part, are the circles of the bandage, applied to the body of the bone, so much above the injury? Their only utility would consist in restraining the action of the brachialis and triceps, by compressing these muscles. On the other hand, the roller should be con- tinued over the fore-arm, in order that the joint, according to the judicious precept of Paulus yEgineta, may correspond to the middle of the bandage, which should here be firmer, than any where else. This method is also of use in pro- ducing a gentle compression of the muscles im- planted into the condyles. Desault recommends having the front and back splints flexible at their middle part, which should be applied to the bend of the arm and elbow. {(Euvres Chir. lie Dcsuul/, par Bichat, T. 1.) The detail of the reduction of the fracture and application of the roller and splints, becomes useless after what has been said. A further ac- count may be found in the work mentioned in the preceding paragraph. The arm is to be kept in the bent position in a sling, and perfectly quiet, until it is judged advisable to begin to move the joint for the purpose of preventing an anchylosis. FRACTURE OF THE FORE-ARM. The fore-arm is more frequently broken, than the arm, because external force operates more directly upon it, than the latter part, especially, in falls, on the hands, which are frequent ac- cidents.—Bichat, in his account of Desault’s practice, mentions, that fractures of the fore- arm often held the first place in the comparative table of such cases, kept at the Hdtel-Dieu. We know, that the fore-arm is composed of two bones, the ulna and radius. The last is much more liable to fractures, than the first, because it is articulated with the hand by a large surface. All the shocks, received by the latter part, are communicated to the radius. The situation of this bone more immediately exposes it to such causes, as may break it; a circum- stance, which we may readily convince ourselves of on the first inspection. Both bones of the fore-arm may be broken at the same time, or one alone may be fractured. FRACTURES OF BOTH BONES May occur at the extremities, or middle of the fore-arm. They are frequent at the middle; very common below; but, seldom happen at the upper part of the fore-arm, where the numerous muscles, and the considerable thickness of the ulna, resist causes, which would otherwise oc- casion the accident. The bones are usually broken in the same line; but, sometimes, in two different directions. The fracture is almost always single; but, in a few instances, it is double, and Desault, in particular, was one day called to a patient, over whose fore-arm the wheels of a cart had passed, so as to break the bones, at their middle and lower part, into six distinct portions. The middle ones, notwith- standing they were quite detached, united very well, with hardly any deformity. These accidents are most commonly occasioned | by direct external violence; but, sometimes they are produced by a counter-stroke, which is ge- & nerally the case, when the patient falls on his hand. But, in this instance, as the hand is prin- cipally connected with the lower broad articular surface of the radius, this bone alone has to sus- tain almost the whole shock of the blow, and hence, is usually the only one broken. The symptoms, indicating fractures of the fore- arm, are not likely to lead the surgeon into any mistake: motion at a part of the limb, where it was previously inflexible; a crepitus, almost , always easily felt; sometimes a distinct de- ; pression in the situation of the fracture; a pro- : jection of the ends of the fracture beneath the skin, but, a less common symptom ; pain on • moving the part; a noise sometimes audible to the patient at the moment of the accident; an If