248 BURNS. rhcea, ami which swellings must consequently be venereal. (Hinder on the Venereal, p. 57.) ' 1 lie manner, in which buboes form from mere irritation, will be better understood by referring to the occasional consequences of venesection, in the article hleeaing. l’be distinguishing cha- racters ot the venereal bubo are noticed in the article 1 ener.ul Disease. BUBONOCELE, (from the groin, and h'iX'i, a tumor.) A species of hernia, in which the bowels protrude at the abdominal ring. The case is often called an inguinal hernia, because the tumor takes place in the groin. (See Hernia.) BURNS are usually divided into three kinds. 1st. Into such as produce an inflammation of the cutaneous texture, but an inflammation, which, if it be not improperly treated, almost always manifests a tendency to resolution. 2dly. Into burns, which injure the vital powers of the cutis, occasion the separation of the cuticle, and produce suppuration on the surface of the cuta- neous texture. 3dly. Into burns, in which the vitality and organization of a greater or less por- tion of the cutis are either immediately or sub- sequently destroyed, and a soft slough or hard eschar produced. (See Thomson’s Lectures on Infinmmutiov, i?. 585, 5S6.) Suppuration is not always an unavoidable con- sequence of the vesications in burns; but it is a common and a troublesome one. “ In severe cases, it may take place by the second, or third day; often not till a later .period. It often occurs without any appearance of ulceration; continues for a longer, or shorter time; and is at last stopped by the formation of a new cuticle. In otlmr instances, small ulcerations appear on the surface or edges of the burn. These spread- ing form extensive sores, which are in general long in healing, even where the granulations, which form upon them, have a healthy appear- ance.” ( Op. cit. p. 595.) Burns present different appearances, according to the degree of violence, with which the causes producing them have operated, and according to the kind of cause, of which they are the effect. Burns, which only irritate the surface of the skin, are essentially different from those, which destroy it; and these latter have a very different aspect from what others present, which have attacked parts more deeply situated, such as the muscles, tendons, ligaments, &c. Scalds, which are the effect of heated fluids, do not exactly resemble burns, occasioned by the direct contact of very hot metallic bodies, or some combustible substance on fire. As fluids are not capable of acquiring so high a temperature, as many solid things, scalds are generally less vio- lent than burns, in the injury which they pro- duce ; but, in consequence of liquids often flowing about with great rapidity, and being sud- denly thrown in large quantities over the patient, scalds are frequently dangerous on account of their extent. It is well worthy of remark, that the danger of the effects of fire is not less pro- portioned to the size, than the degree and depth of the injury. A burn, that is so violent, as to kill parts at onec, may not be in the feast dan- gerous, if not extensive; while, a scald, which perhaps only raises the cuticle, may prove fatal, if very large. The degree of danger, however, is to be rated from a consideration both of the size and violence of the injury. The worst burns, which occur in practice, arise from ex-> j plosions of gunpowder, or inflammable gases,} I from ladies’ dresses catching fire and from the} j boiling over of hot fluids, in laboratories, manu-j j factories, &c. Burns, which only destroy the cuticle, and I irritate the skin, are very similar ta the effects, i produced by cantharides and rubefacients. The j irritation, which such injuries excite, increases j the action of the arteries of the part affected, and! | they effuse a fluid under the cuticle, which be— I comes elevated and detached. Hence, the skinKj becomes covered with vesicles, or bladders,p} which are more or less numerous, and large, ac-U I cording to the manner, in which the cause has} I operated. But, when the skin, or subjacent parts,} are destroyed, no vesicles make their appearance.} I In this circumstance, a black eschar is seen ; and}; when the dead parts are detached, there remainsl* a sore, more or less deep, according to the depth,} to which the destructive effects of the fire havejl extended. The parts may either be killed, at the moment} I of the injury, by the immediate effect of the fire,} or they may first inflame, and then mortify. In all cases of burns, the quantity of injury I depends on the degree of heat in the burning} substance; on the duration, and extent of its ap-t plication ; and on the sensibility of the burnt part.} When a large surface is burnt, mortificationw sometimes makes its appearance with great vio- i, lence, and very quickly after the accident;}] but, in general, the symptom, the most to be}| dreaded, in such cases, is inflammation. The painli aud irritation often run to such a pitch, that,}} notwithstanding every means, there is fre-|| quently immense trouble in keeping down the in-ll flammation. When the burnt surface is very I large, the effects of the inflammation are noth confined to the part, which was first injured; j); but, even cause a great deal of fever; and, in }!' certain cases, a comatose state, which may end } in death. It has been observed, that persons, who die of severe burns, seem to experience a re-1 markable difficulty of breathing, and oppression } of the lungs. These organs, and the skin, are | both concerned in separating a large quantity ol E water from the circulation, and their participa- if ting in this function may, perhaps, afford a reason for respiration being often much affected, when a large surface of skin is burnt. However, the 1 kidneys perform the same office, and they are not particularly affected in burnt patients j so that the asthmatic symptoms, frequently noticed in cases of burns, are probably owing to a sym- pathy between the lungs and skin, or else to causes not at present understood. TREATMENT OF BURNS. Two general methods of treating burns have at all times been followed. One consists in the application of substances, which produce a cool- ing, or refrigerant effect; the other in the em- ployment of calefacicnt, or stimulating sub- stances. Dr. Thomson is satisfied, that each o these different modes may have its advantages in particular cases. ( l.ret. on Inflammation, }«. 5!'fl.) The practice mostly resorted to in this comitty some years since, is explained bv Mr. !>• 1 • When the skin is not destroyed, but seems o