1224 WRY-NECK. 4'C. John Bell's Principles of Surgery, and his Discourses on Wounds. W. Balfour, Observations on Adhesion, with two Cases, demonstrative of the Powers of Nature to re- unite parts, which have been totally separated from the animal System, 8vo. Edinb. 1814. Larrey, Memoircs de Chirurgie Militairc. Metnoircs et Price de l'Academic Royale de Chirurgie. Sabatier, Medccine Operutoire. Assalini, Manuals di Chirurgia; Milano, 1812. Richcrand, Nosogr. Chir. Ed. 4. Boyer, Traite des Maladies Chir. T. 1. Delpech, Precis des Maladies Rcpute.es Chirurgicalcs, T. 1. Schmuclccr, Wahrnehmungen und Chi- rurgische Schriften. Lombard, Instruction Som- maire sur l’Art des Pansemens, 8vo. Stras- bourg. 1797. Also, Clinique Chirurgicale relative aux plaics, 8 vo. Strasb. an. 6. Guth- rie, on Gun-shot Wounds, 2 Edit. Jones, on Hemorrhage. Schrcger, Chirurgische Vcr- siiche, B. 2. p. 260, tfre. 8vo. Nurnberg. 1818. Thomson’s Lectures on Inflammation, 8 vo. 1813; and his Report and Obs. made in the Military Hospitals in Belgium, 8 vo. 1816. J. Hennens Military Surgery, Ed. 2, 8vo. Edinb. 1820; and the various Works cited in the course of this article, and at the conclusion of that on Gun-shot Wounds. For information on poisoned wounds, consult F. Redi, Osservazioni tntorno allc Viperc. Firenze, 1664. M. C-haras, Nouvcllcs Experiences sur la Viperc, 4to. Paris, 1669. Also, a Reply to Redi's,Letter, concerning Vipers, Vlmo. Land. 1673. Stan- ford Wofferstan. Inquiry into the Causes of ’Diseases in general, §c. Also, of the Venom of Vipers, 12mo. Land. 1692. A. Mourcau dc Jonnes, Monographic du Trigonocephale des Antilles, ou Grand Viperc Per-de Lance dc la Martinique, Par. 8vo. 1816. A. Voter, ct F. Gcnsler, dc Aniidoto Novo adversus viperarum morsum, prccscntissimo in Anglia hand ita pridem dctecto; Wittcmb. 1736. {Haller, Disp. ad Morb, 6, 533.) J. E Her* tin ct J. F. C. Morand, Thesis in hcec verba, ergo Spcciflcum Viperce Morsus antidotum Al- kali Volatile, in Haller s Disp. ad Morb. 6, 611, Paris. 1749. Catesby's Hist, of Carolina Mead on Poisons. Fontana, on the Venom of the Viper. Acrel dc Morsura Serpentum, 4 to. Upsal. 1767. Russell, on Indian Serpents. Ireland, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 2. Sir E. Home, in Phil. Trans. 1810. WRY-NECK. (Caput Obstipum; Torti- collis.) An involuntary and fixed inclination of the head towards ono of the shoulders; a disorder not spoken of by the ancients. It should not be confounded with a mere rheumatic ten- sion and stiffness of the neck, nor with the faulty position of the head, arising from deformity of the cervical vertebrae. Tulpius, a learned physician at Amsterdam, about the middle of the seventeenth century, has recorded the cure of a boy, twelve years old, who from his earliest infancy, had had his head drawn down towards the left shoulder, by a con- traction of the scalenus muscle. Fomentations were applied in vain. The head could not be held, in which it was decided to put the boy undep the care of Minnius, a surgeon who had performed several operations with success in similar cases. A large eschar was first made with caustic; and the muscle, which drew the head to one side, was then divided with a knife. Tulpius, who has left a very confused account of the operation, ob- serves, that it was performed with great slowness and circumspection, for fear of wounding the carotid artery, and jugular vein. However, he offers one good piece of advice, which is, not to make any preliminary application of caustic, as it only causes useless pain, and can not be of any service. He also recommends the operation not to be done by little and little, at repeated times; and says, that the surgeon should make a com- plete division of the muscle at once, with the necessary degree of eaution. Job a Meeckren also treats of the operation for the cure of a wry-neck. He states, that he had seen it performed on a boy, fourteen years old. The tendon of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus mus- cle was skilfully divided with one stroke of a sharp pair of scissars, by a surgeon named Flurianus, and as soon as the incision was made, the head resumed its right position. {Obs. Med. Chir. C. 33.) Mr. S. Sharp believed, that the wry-neck mostly arose from a contraction of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus muscle, which he proposed the division of, whenever the disorder seemed to pro- ceed from this kind of cause. However, he made an exception of cases, in which the disorder had existed a considerable time, or from infancy. He remarks, that, if the cervical vertebrae have grown in a distorted direction, the position of the head cannot be rectified. With these restrictions; the following is the operation, which he recommends: a transverse incision is to be made through the skin and fat, of a size somewhat more extensive than the breadth of the muscle, and about one- third of its length from the clavicle. A probed razor is then to be passed underneath the muscle, and to be drawn out, so as to make the requisite division of the part. After the incision has been made, Mr. Sharp recommends the wound to be filled with dry lint, and to be always dressed in a way, best calculated to keep the extremities ot the muscle from growing together again. For this purpose, he directs the cut ends to be sepa- . rated from each other as much as possible, with the assistance of a bandage to support the head, during the whole time of the cure, which he'says, will generally be about a month. {On the Ope- rations of Surgery, Chap. 35.) According to Mr. Sharp’s account, this oper- ation ought to be common. However, if atten- tion be paid to the nature and causes of the dis- ease, and to the differences, resulting from whe- ther the disorder be recent, or ol long standing; constant, or periodical; idiopathic, or sympathe- tic ; dependent on spasm, or merely on paralysis of the antagonist muscles; and, lastly, if it be recollected, that the affection may be produced by other muscles, besides the sterno-cleido-mas- toidcus; it will appear, that cases, in which the foregoing operation can be judiciously under- taken, are not frequent. With regard to the manner, in which Mr. ml A/I