ANEURISM. for aneurisms, though it is decidedly one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery, have also shewn great reluctance even to believe, much less to practise, the operation of tying the external iliac artery. A Parisian surgeon, how- ever, who was recently in London, saw the thing done, and his brethren in the capital of Fiance now begin to have their eyes a little more open. Still, as Roux remarks, “ We cannot but blame the indifference, with which the operation is mentioned in some of the latest French surgical publications. At this moment (1815,) we can reckon twenty-three facts, relative to tying the external iliac artery, and, on fifteen of the patients, it has perfectly succeeded. In these twenty- three operations, I comprehend the two which were done in France; one at Brest, by Dela- porte, and the other at Lyons, by Bouchet; cases, of the authenticity of which we cannot doubt. In the number of successful cases, is to be comprised Bouchet’s operation, since the patient lived more than a year afterwards, and then died of the consequences of an inguinal aneurism of the opposite side. Of the other twenty-one operations, fifteen have been performed in London only, in the several hospitals of this metropolis, by Abernethy, Ramsden, A. Cooper, Brodie, and Lawrence, gentlemen who would never pub- lish forged cases. “ Mr. A. CoOper alone had tied the external iliac artery six times before my journey to Lon- don, and during my stay there, I saw him per- form the operation once. Four of his patients were entirely well; one of the three others died, the thirteenth week after the operation, of the bursting of an aneurism of the aorta. At this period, the circulation in the limb had been re- established. I saw the limb, after it had been injected, amongst Mr. Cooper’s anatomical pre- parations. Large and beautiful anastomoses ex- isted round the pelvis, between the dilated branches of the internal iliac and femoral arteries. With respect to the sixth patient, the leg mortified, and the thigh was amputated without success. The seventh diod of an hemorrhage, which took place the fourteenth or fifteenth day after the operation.” (1’arallele de La Clrir. Aiigloise uvec la Chir. Fnmqoise, p. 275—276'.) The many facts which have been already published, exemplifying the propriety of this operation, must be highly gratifying to Mr. Abernethy, by whose judgment it was first sug- gested, and by whose enterprising hand it was first practised. Mr. Abernethy has been called upon in several cases to take up the external iliac artery, and they all proved, that the anastomosing vessels were fully capable of conveying blood enough into the limb below, and that a vessel even of this size could become permanently closed after being tied. Three of the operations>done by this gentleman, I was an eye-witness «}f, and, it is therefore with confidence Unit 1 can speak of the ease and simplicity of the requisite measures for securing the external iliac artery. (See Aberntthy’s Slug, anil Physiol. Essays; anti Sar- gieaL Observations, 1804; Edinb. Med. and Sarg. Journal for January, 1807.) . *n Mr. Abcrnethy’s first operation of this find, performed in 1796’, an incision, about three inches in length, was made through the integuments of the abdomen, in the direction of the artery, and thus the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle was laid bare. This was next divided, from its connexion with Pou- part’s ligament, in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transverse muscles being thus exposed, Mr. Abernethy in- troduced his fingers beneath them to protect the peritoneum, and then divided them. Next he pushed this membrane with its contents up- wards and inwards, and took hold of the ex- ternal iliac artery with his finger and thumb. It now only remained to pass a ligature round the artery, and tie it; but, this required cau- tion, on account of the contiguity of the vein to the artery. These Mr. A. separated with his fingers, and introducing a ligature under the artery with a common surgical needle, tied it about an inch and a half above Poupart’s liga- ment. (Sing. Essays.) The following was the method, which Mr. Aber- nethy adopted, the second time of tying the ex- ternal iliac artery. An incision, three inches in length, was made through the integuments of the abdomen, beginning a little above Poupart’s ligament, and extending upwards; it was more than half an inch on the outside of the upper part of the abdominal ring, to avoid the epigastric artery. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle being exposed, was next divided, in the direction of the external wound. The lower part of the internal oblique muscle was thus uncovered, and the finger being introduced below the inferior margin of it and of the transversalis muscle, they were divided with the crooked bistoury for about one inch and a half. Mr. Abernethy now introduced his finger beneath the bag of the peritoneum, and carried it upwards by the side of the psoas muscle, so as to touch the artery about two inches above Poupart's ligament. Fie took care to disturb the peritoneum as little as possible, detaching it to no greater extent than was requisite to admit his two fingers to touch the vessel. The pulsations of the artery made it clearly distinguishable, but Mr. Abernethy could not put his finger round it with facility. In order to be able to do so, he was obliged to make a slight incision on each side of it. Mr. A. now drew the artery gently down, so as to see it behind the peritoneum. By means of an eye- probe, two ligatures were conveyed under the vessel; one of these was carried upwards as far as the artery had been detached, and the other downwards: they were firmly tied, and the vessel was divided in the interspace between them. (Sing. Oiserv. 1804.) In a third instance of tying this vessel, Mr. Abernethy operated exactly as in the foregoing case, and with complete success. (See Ldinb. Sing. Jour a. Jan. 1807.) Mr. Freer, of Birmingham, who may be said to claim the honour of having seconded Mr. Abernethy in this new practice, made an incision about one inch and a half from the spine ol the ilium, beginning about an inch above it, and extending it downwards about three inches and a half, so as to form altogether an incision lour inches and a half long, extending to the base ot the tumor. The tendon of the external ob-