868 OPHTIIALMY. I do not place much confidence myself; the ap- plication of various stimulating medicated sub- stances to them; compresses and bandages ; the badness of instruments employed in operations upon the eyes; the employment of spectacles unnecessarily, or of such as are not adapted to the eyes of the individual; and every immode- rate exertion of the eyesight. But, amongst the most important and frequent exciting causes of ophthalmy, are extraneous bodies, which insinuate themselves between the eyeball and eyelids, and every kind of wound or injury of the eye. Foreign bodies, liable to enter under the eye- lids, are of three kinds; first, they may either be such as are in themselves completely innoxious to the eye; or such as are likely to hurt the eye only when strongly pressed upon by the spasmodic closure of the eyelids, or by the patient’s imprudently rubbing the eye; or they may be of a quality, which injures the eye the moment they come into contact with it. Foreign bodies of the first description lie loose under one of the eyelids, and, for the most part, either immediately behind its edge in the groove de- stined for the conveyance of the tears, or else in the fold, seen when the eyelid is everted, exactly at the line where the palpebra and sclerotic con- junctiva join together. They never actually lodge in the coats of the eye; but they irritate it either mechanically, or chemically, or in both ways together, according to their size, shape, and chemical properties. In the list of such extraneous substances are inverted eyelashes; particles of dust; snuff; pepper ; minute insects ; and other small things generally carried under the eyelids by the wind. As these foreign bodies are all of them more or less irritating to the eye, they must be con- sidered as a principal exciting cause of ophthalmy, which frequently follows their entrance under the eyelids with extraordinary rapidity. However, the redness and effusion of tears, sometimes instantly following the insinuation of extraneous substances under the palpebrse, and as suddenly ceasing on their removal, Beer considers rather as preliminaries to inflammation, than as this disorder itself. (B. \,p. 92.) Wounds and other injuries of the eye, regarded as causes of ophthalmy, Beer divides into three kinds ; viz. mechanical, chemical, and mixed. A prick of the eye with a fine needle is an ex- ample of a simple mechanical injury; the action of quicklime upon the organ is an instance of one purely cherrffcal; and the violent propulsion of a red-hot bit of iron against the eye is a lesion, which may be said to be both mechanical and chemical. The same author makes a variety of original reflections upon the differences, con- nected with the extent and intensity of such injuries. Their intensity, he views only as something relative; thus, either the force, with which the eye is injured, is of itself too great ever to be resisted, as is seen in a gunshot wound ; or the organic powers of the patient are, from age, sex, or constitution, much too feeble for the eye to bear favourably any considerable injury, as is the case with children and weak un- healthy females; or the organization of the eye itself may be weak, and the effects of the violence therefore greater, as exemplified in the fact of a brown or black eye generally bearing a wound l better than a grey, or blue one; or, lastly, the| organic powers of the texture of the eye, imme-t diately injured, may be too feeble to bear even ail slight lesion, as is the case with the retina. (B. 1, p. 95.) Mechanical injuries of the eye may be rnade^ either with sharp, or obtuse bodies. Sharp- pointed and cutting instruments are capable readily penetrating the eye, without occasionini at the moment of their entrance, any violen compression, or laceration of the neighbourin textures; and consequently the injury infiicti is a simple puncture, or an incision. Sabre-cuts* of the eye, however, are to be excepted ; for,, though the weapon may be sharp, the blow istf- always attended with more or less concussion,jj (1 and injury of the textures, adjoining the wound^ .. which are very delicate and readily spoiled.* « Blunt weapons, or bodies, can only enter tha texture of the eye by dint of great force, and,, t in this case, always cause a serious degree ofl i compression, stretching, and laceration; but^ 1 sometimes when they do not penetrate the organs the contusion is such as is productive of not lessi mischief. In the case of a simple puncture, or incision! of the eye, Beer seems to think, that the sub-* sequent ophthalmy is generally more owing ta the incapacity of the wounded organ to bear tha effects of the light, air, &c. than to the injury itself abstractedly considered. He observes, thal a proof of the truth of this opinion is seen in tha extraction of the cataract; for, if the operator is careless in the operation itself, opening the flaj “H of the cornea very wide, so as to let the atmo-4 i spheric air have free access to the inner texturea ii of the eye; or if after the operation is finished, < I he do not apply the dressings with caution, and properly darken the patient’s chamber, he is let-* ting the eye be subjected to some of the mosl active causes of inflammation. But though Beer is unquestionably correct, in regard to the injurious effects of light on the wounded eye, it may be doubted, whether his theories do nol make him attribute too much to the irritation o; the air, and too little to that of the mechanica division of the parts. Passing over many of Beer’s observations injuries of the eye produced by blunt bodies, substances acting chemically upon it, I leave the! topic of the direct exciting causes of ophthal-j my, and come to the consideration of thosaj which he regards as indirect. And the first tc* which he adverts, is even’ thing that has tendency to keep up a determination of a laq quantity of blood into the small vessels of th head and eyes. Immoderate bodily exercise violent emotions of the mind ; injudicious cloth ing; and high living; are aftenvards enumerate as having an indirect effect in the production ol ophthalmy; but it does not appear to me, thalr Beer’s sentiments upon these points are entitler to much attention. With respect to infection and contagion, as causes of inflammation of the eye, Beer understands by infection, what at first4, takes effect only upon a small point of the bodyi but never the whole animal economy directly that is to say, before absorption has taken place Hence, says he, infectious diseases are very sel1 dom the cause of ophthalmy, unless some o