OFHTHALMY. 887 t takes place but slowly. If the effects of the lisease at this period should be deeper, yet the .•ornea not destroyed, only rendered Hat and •o me what opaque; or, if the cornea should be jlcerated only at a very limited point; there will -eniain, in the first case, an opacity of the cor- lea; but, in the second, a partial adhesion of the ris to the latter membrane (synechia anterior) s apt to follow, with a more or less extensive ci- catrix on the cornea, covering in a greater or cesser degree the lessened and displaced pupil, and hus diminishing, or preventing vision. When, luring the inflammation and suppuration, a con- siderable part, or the whole of the iris adheres to he cornea, and this is not penetrated by ulcera- tion, the result, in the first case, is a partial, in .he second, a complete staphyloma of the cornea, > which does not fully develop itself, until towards .'he decline of the second stage of the ophthalmo- dennorrheea. If the inflammation should spread .0 the textures of the eyeball itself, so as to pro- duce severe constitutional disturbance, the eye wastes away in the midst of the profuse discharge, the eyelids sink inwards, and the fissure between them becomes permanently closed. (Beer, B. ], y. 319.) Beer notices the opinion of the celebrated 'Schmidt, which was, that the ophthalmo-blennor- rhoea, or purulent ophthalmy involving the scle- rotic conjunctiva, always has a fixed duration of a month, in new-born infants, and of six, eight, or t twelve weeks, in very weak individuals. Beer acknowledges the correctness of this opinion, only in cases where the surgeon has to deal with a completely formed ophthalmo-blennorrhoea, and ■ not in a more recent case, or one in which the disease is chiefly confined to the inside of the eyelids. (Blepharo-hlcnnorrtioea.) When the dis- ■ order is met with in the first period of the second stage, or it is confined to the palpebral conjunc- tiva and Meibomian glands, and truly idiopa- thic, Beer asserts, that its course may be re- stricted by efficient treatment to a few days, as he has often proved in the establishment for foundlings at Vienna. It is further remarked by Beer, that, in this ! modification of genuine idiopathic glandular in- flammation of the eyelids, the indications have something peculiar in them. If, by chance, the surgeon meet with the disease in its first stage, it will be most benefited by the application of folded linen wet with cold water ; and sometimes a brisk purge of jalap and calomel, and putting a leech over the lachrymal sac at the inner can- tlius, will promote the subsidence of this danger- ous species of ophthalmy. The case, however, rarely presents itself for medical treatment, thus early, and, in hospitals, Beer says, antiphlogis- tic treatment is, on this account, hardly ever indicated. With some exceptions of importance, the treatment, advised by Beer, for the second stage of these severer forms of purulent ophthalmy, resembles that proposed by him for the second stage of simple glandular inflammation of the eyelids, or the milder varieties. These more severe kinds of purulent inflammation of the eye, imp led by blepharo-blennorrhcea and ophthalmo- > ennorrhoea, he says, should never be viewed and reate, merely as local disorders ; but that, both 1,1 c 11 111,1 anil adults, internal remedies should be exhibited, particularly volatile tonic medicines. In cases, where the cornea is already attacked by a destructive ulcerative process, manifold expe- rience has convinced him, that bark, combined with naphtha, and the tincture of opium, is the only means of saving the eye; hut, that if the suppuration be confined to the eyelids, the decoc- tion of calamus aromaticus with naphtha and opium will mostly answer. When, on the super- vention of suppuration, the pain in the eye and neighbouring parts is excessively severe, Beer assures us, that friction with a liniment of opium will give great relief. In new-born infants, the maternal milk of right quality will mostly do more good, than internal medicines : but, if the case be very urgent, and the child feeble, Beer thinks volatile medicines may sometimes do good. With respect to particularities made neces- sary in the local treatment by the modified nature of the inflammation, Beer offers the following information. First, in new-born infants, or very young children, the oxymuriate of mercury can- not be used without danger, though blunted with mucilage; and even in adults, it should be em- ployed in these cases with great circumspection. Secondly, the mucus and purulent matter should not be allowed to remain long under the eyelids, as such lodgment is found to promote the de- struction of the layer of the conjunctiva situated on the cornea; but, at the same time, Beer thinks, that leaving any water on the eyes, after clean- ing them, and letting it become cold there, will have quite as pernicious an effect. Hence, he is very particular in directing all the mucus and purulent matter to be wiped away from the eye with a bit of fine sponge moistened with a warm mucilaginous collyrium, but not so wet as to let the fluid drop out of it; or when they are very copious, and in large flakes, he even recommends them to be washed away by means of Anel’s sy- ringe ; but, he says, that every part about the eye should be immediately afterwards well dried with a warm napkin, and then covered with a warm camphorated compress. Thirdly, during the suppurative period, according to Beer, com- mon tincture of opium, or the vinous tincture, is the best local application, the parts being smeared with it twice a day, by means of a fine camel- hair brush. It is only in a few instances, that a small proportion of the lapis divinus (see Lachry- mal Organs,) mixed with the mucilaginous colly- rium, can be endured. Beer declares, that he has never seen any good produced by Bates’s cam- phorated lotion, which was so highly praised by the late Mr. Ware. Fourthly, when the sup- purative period has terminated, the mucous secre- tion again becomes white and thin, as at the very commencement of the second stage, but it is always more copious; now Is the time, (as in the last stage of simple glandular inflammation of the eyelids) when the topical use of mercury, joined with styptics, especially in the form of an eye-salve, is indicated. Fifthly, if an eversion of the upper eyelid should happen from washing the eye carelessly, or the mere crying of the infant, in consequence of the thickened granulated state of the palpebral conjunctiva, the position of the eyelid must, if possible, be immediately rectified; for, afterwards, this cannot be done. In order to avoid this ectropium, the eyelids should never be opened while the child is crying, or in any