HERNIA. 6'44 It is tolerably well established, that the con- genital hernia cerebri, which arises from the in- complete ossification of the skull, and is covered by the scalp, ought to be treated by the' appli- cation of constant, yet moderate, pressure. M. Salleneuve communicated to the Royal Academy of Surgery in France an example of the good effects of this treatment, which reduces the size of the tumor, and accomplishes a perfect cure as soon as the ossification is completed. M. Salle- neuve put a piece of thin sheet lead, properly covered with soft linen, under the child’s cap, to which it was sewed in a suitable situation, and the degree of pressure was increased, or lessened, according as circumstances required, by tighten- ing, or loosening the cap. (Op. cit. p. 103, T. 13, Edit. \eSno.) The experience of Callisen also confirms, that hernia cerebri, when of moderate size, may be cured by the foregoing method, the aperture becoming gradually closed. But he adds, that large tumors of this description, especially when situated about the occiput, scarcely admit of any means of relief, except the employment of some contrivance to protect them from external in- jury. (iCallisen, System. Chir. Hodierntz, Vol. 2, p. 513, 514, Ed. 1800.) When the ossification of the sutures in children is late, the cerebellum, as well as the cerebrum, is liable to protrusion. In 1813, two such cases occurred at Paris. In one, Professor Lalle- ment mistook the disease for a common tumor, and commenced an operation for its removal, when, after making some of the necessary in- cisions, his proceedings were stopped by his see- ing the white silvery colour of the dura mater, and that the swelling came out of an aperture in the occipital bone. The day after the operation the child was seized with violent pain in the head, had a hard pulse, prostration of strength, vomiting, &c. and died in the course of a week. On dissection, a part of the tentorium, and an elongation of the two lobes of the cerebellum, about as large as a nut, were found in the pro- truded sac of the dura mater. Several abscesses were also discovered in the substance of the cere- bellum. The other example fell under the ob- servation of M. Baflos, principal surgeon to the Hdpital des Enfans. Upon the death of the child, the dissection evinced similar appear- ances. (Richerand, Nosographie Chir. T. 2, p. 319, Ed 4.) Such facts should teach the surgeon to be particularly cautious in ascertaining the nature of tumors about the back part of the head, before he ventures to attempt their removal. The second kind of congenital encephalocele is that, in which not only large portions of the cranium, but also more or less of the integu- ments of the head, are deficient. It is rather to be regarded as a malformation, than a disease, and, indeed, in most instances, the infants are still-born. The case sometimes consists of the protrusion of most of the brain through the infe- rior and posterior fontanellae, so that the child is born with a largish bag, on the back of its head, hanging down over the posterior part of the neck. Several specimens, of these malforma- tions, taken from infants born in the Hospice de la Maternity nre preserved in the Museum of the Faculte dc Medeciuc at Tans. (.Riche- rand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 310, Edit. 4.) In the year 1810, a remarkable case of this last | description of congenital hernia cerebri was j published by Dr. Burrows. “ The whole of the i forehead, summit, and a great part of the occi- j put, were deficient, and in lieu of them, a sub- 1 stance projected of a light mulberry colour, and of the mushroom form, except that it was pro- | portionably broader. From the deficiency of j bone, the eyes appeared to project much more I than usual.—The child lived six days without j either taking sustenance, or having ahy eva- cuation.” On dissection, the scalp, the os ! frontis, the parietal, and a great part of the occipital bones, were wanting. Through the i parts, at which these bones were deficient, the cerebrum projected, exhibiting its usual convo- lutions. It was covered with the pia mater; was of a mulberry colour ; appeared to be more \ vascular, than the pia mater usually is; and the edge of the scalp adhered to the neck of the tu- mor. The cerebellum was not more than one- fourth of its usual size ; for, the posterior part of the os occipitis was much nearer to the sella turcica, than natural. The child was destitute of the power of voluntary motion, and all the secretions appeared to be stopped. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 2, p. 52.) The most interesting species of hernia cerebri to the practitioner, is that which sometimes arises after the removal of a portion of the skull by the trephine, or the destruction of part: of it by disease. Various examples of this dis- ease are recorded in the Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery, and I have myself seen many instances of it. Although the case has attracted considerable notice, modern surgeons are far from entertaining settled opinions, con- cerning the exact nature of the tumor. In one example, recorded by Mr. Abernethy, the hernia cerebri arose on the tenth day after trephining, and ■was as large as a pigeon’s egg. The pia mater, covering it, was inflamed ; and a turbid serum was discharged at the sides of the r swelling, from beneath the dura mater- On the) eleventh day, the tumor was as large as a hen’s egg, smooth, and ready to burst. The man diedil the next day. On examination, the swelling was* found still larger, and of a dark colour, with aru irregular granulated surface. This appearance! was owing to coagulated blood, which adhered to its surface, as the part had bled so much, that the* patient’s cap was rendered quite stiff with blood- The pia mater was in general much inflamed. and, as well as the dura mater, was deficient ata £ the place of the tumor. The deeper part of jf the swelling seemed to consist of fibrous coagu-J lated blood, and it was found to originate about? an inch below the surface of the brain. Mr. Abernethy explains the formation of tho disease, as follows : “ In consequence of the brain being injured to some depth beneath the surface, disease of the vessels, and consequent! effusion of the blood, had ensued ; the effusioi* was, for a time, restrained by the superincum-j ,bent brain and its membranes; but, these gra-» dually yielding to the expansive force exerted from within, and at last giving way altogether, the fluid blood oozed out and congealed upoi the surface of the tumor.” An organized fun gus can hardly be produced so rapidly as the