OPHTHALMY. way agitated; for, at such periods, the thickened scabrous conjunctiva will suddenly protrude, and cannot be kept back. Beer says, that the eye- lid should be replaced in the manner directed by Schmidt. (Ophthalmol. Bill. 3 li. 2 Stuck, />. 149.) 1 he surgeon having smeared the ends Oi the thumb and forefinger of each of his hands whh iresli butter, is to take hold of the everted cartilage of the eyelid at the outer and inner can thus, draw it slowly a little upwards, and then suddenly downwards. Thus, the thickened con- junctiva, if not too fleshy and granulated, may lie quickly reduced, and the ectropium removed. But, if the swelling of this membrane should be already very considerable, and have begun to be hard and studded with excrescences, the thumbs should be placed so as to compress rather the middle of the eyelid. However, if the ectro- pium cannot be at once removed, it is to be treated, after the termination of the second stage of the purulent ophthalmy, as a sequel of this disorder. (See Ectropium.) In the ophthalmo-ble'nnorrhcEa, the alteration of the sclerotic conjunctiva is said by Beer to be very different from chemosis ; a remark, which is strictly correct, inasmuch as ordinary chemo- sis is not attended with that change in the sur- face of the sclerotic conjunctiva, which fits it for the secretion of pus. But, if we are to under- stand by chemosis, a copious effusion of lymph in the loose cellular substance between the con- junctiva and the eyeball, this state must be admitted as one of the usual effects of severe purulent ophthalmy. “ It is after this morbid condition, which is- characteristic of the suppurative ophthalmia (says Mr. Travers) that the conjunctiva forms fungous excrescences, pendulous flaps, or hard callous rolls protruding between the palpebraeand globe, and everting the former, or, if not protruding, causing the turning of the lid over against the globe. The tarsal portion takes on from the same cause the hard granulated surface, which keeps up incessant irritation of the sclerotic con- junctiva, and at length renders the cornea opaque ” (Synopsis, cjy. p. 9 8.) The treatment recommended by Mr. Travers for the vehement acute suppurative inflammation of the conjunctiva consists in a very copious venesec- tion, by which, he says, the pain is mitigated, if not removed; the pulse softened; and the patient sinks into a sound sleep and perspires freely. The high scarlet hue and bulk of the chemosis are sensibly reduced, and the cornea is brighter. The blood-letting, if necessary, is to be repeated, and tiie patient briskly purged, every dose of the opening medicine being followed by a tea-spoon- ful of a solution of emetic tartar, so as to keep up a state of nausea, perspiration, and faintness. When the discharge, becomes thin, gleety, and more abundant, the swelling of the eyelid sub- sides, the conjunctiva sinks and becomes pale and flabby, the pain and febrile irritation are past, and the cornea retains its tone and bright- ness, Mr. Travers considers the case safe, and states, that the prompt exhibition of tonics, with the use of cooling astringent lotions, will pre- vent its lapsing into a chronic form. “But, if, when the lowering practice has been pushed to the extent of arresting acute inflammation, the patient being at t lie same time sunk and ex- hausted, the coiuea shews a lack lustre and rag- gedness ol its whole surface, as jf shrunk by im- mersion in an acid, or a grey patch in the centre, or a line encircling, or half encircling its base, assuming a similar appearance, the portion so marked out will infallibly be detached byr a raj id slough, unless by a successful rally of the patient’s powers, we can set up the adhesive inflammation, so as to preserve in situ that which may remain transparent.” {Synopsis, <yc. p. 26G.) Here we find some approximation of practice, between Mr. Travers and Professor Beer; but it is almost the only point, in which any resemblance can be found in their modes of treatment. The granulated, or fungous state of the palpe- bral conjunctiva, produced by purulent ophthal- my, sometimes demands particular treatment, after the original disease is subdued. If such state of the eyelid be not rectified, it often keeps up a “ gleety discharge, irritability to light, drooping of the ujiper lid, a pricking sensation as of sand in the eye, and a preternaturally irritable and vascular state of the sclerotic conjunctiva; with these are frequently combined opacities of the cornea.” (Travers, op. cit.p. 271.) The affection, as conjoined with opaque cornea, is particularly noticed by Dr. Vetch, who describes the disease of the jialpebrse as consisting, atflrst, in a highly villous state of their membranous lining, which, if not treated by ajipropriate reme- dies, gives birth to granulations, which in pro- cess of time become more deeply sulcated, bard, or warty. Along with the villous and fleshy appearance of the lining of the eyelids, there is a general oozing of purulent matter, which may at any time be squeezed out by pressing the finger on the part. The diseased structure is highly vascular, and bleeds most profusely when cut. It possesses, as all granulated surfaces do, a very- great power of growth, or reproduction. Dr. Vetch has seen many eases, in which it has been removed, with more zeal, than discretion, twenty cr thirty times success!rely, without this dis- position to reproduction having sutfered any diminution. Indeed, he assures us, that the operation was very unfavourable to the ultimate recovery of the part; “ a new surface is produced of a bright velvety appearance, much less sus- ceptible of cure than the original disease, and which, even if at length healed, does not assume the natural appeal ance of the part, but that ot a cicatrized surface,” not attended with a return of the transparency of the cornea. It is satis- factorily proved by the observations of Dr. Vetch, that this diseased state of ilie inner surface of the eyelid was not only- known to Rhases, and other old practitioners, under the names of sycosis, trachoma, scabies palpebrarum, &c. but that its treatment by the actual cautery, excision, and friction was also recommended by them. The honour of having introduced the preferable mode of cure with escharotics, Dr. Vetch assigns to St. Ives. No substances appear to Dr. Vetch more effectual for this purpose, than the sulphate of copper and nitrate of silver. He says, that they should be pointed in the form of a pencil, and fixed in a port-crayon. They are to be ap- plied, not as some have conceived, with the view of producing a slough over the whole surface, but with great delicacy, and in so many points onlv, as will produce a gradual change in th<;