488 FRACTURES. in MS in. de l’Acad, de Chir. T. 4, Duvmicy, TraitS dcs Mai. des Os., T. ]. Unger, in Richter’s Tibi. Is. 6, p. 520. 7 heden, Neue Bemcrkungen, <5fc. 7 h. 2. Brvnnmghausen neber den Bench des Schenkelbeinhalses, Sfc. Wiirzb. 1789. Van Gescher uber die Entstellungen des Ruckgrats, und uber der Verrenkungen und Brnche des Scherikelbeins. axis d. Holland. Hedenus, in Bernstein’s Darslellung dts Chir. Vtrbandes, Tab. 42, Jig. 82 and 83. M. Hagedorn uber der Bruch dcs Schenkelbeinhalses, <fc.. Leipz. 1808. J. N. Sauter, Anxveisung die Beinbruche der Gliedmassen, vorzuglich die complicierten, und dm Schenkelbeinhalsbruch nach eincr neuen, cJ*c. Mcthode, ohne Schienen sicher zu heilen, 8 vo. Konstanz. 1812. J. Wilson on the Structure and Physiology of the Skeleton, c£c. p. 243,3fc. 8 vo. Lond. 1820- Dr. Colies, Dublin Hospital Reports, Vol.2. A. Cooper,Surgical Essays, Part 2. Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 3. OBLIQUE FRACTURES OF THE EXTERNAL, OR IN- TERNAL CONDYLE OF THE FEMUR INTO THE JOINT. In these cases, Mr. A. Cooper prefers the straight position, because the tibia presses the extremity of the broken condyle into a line, with that which is not injured. The limb is to be put in the extended posture upon a pillow, and evaporating lotions and leeches are to be used for the removal of the swelling and in- flammation. “ When this object has been effected, a roller is to be applied around the knee, and a piece of stiff pasteboard, about sixteen inches long, and sufficiently wide to extend en- tirely under the joint, and to pass on each side of it, so as to reach to the edge of the patella, is to be dipped in warm water, and applied under the knee, and confined by a roller. When this is dry, it has exactly adapted itself to the form of the joint, and this form it afterwards retains, so as best to confine the bones. Splints of wood or tin maybe used on each side of the joint; but they are apt to make uneasy pressure. In five weeks, passive motion of the limb may be gently begun, to prevent anchylosis.” (Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 101.) This author afterwards de- scribes a compound fracture of the external con- dyle, a portion of which was after a time ex- tracted, and the case ended so favourably, that the patient, who was a boy, was able to bend and extend the leg without pain. For fractures, just above the condyles, Mr. A. Cooper recommends the bent position, without which, he says, deformity is sure to follow. He advises the limb to be placed over the double in- clined plane, and a roller applied round the lower portion of the femur, (p. 103.) FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. This bone is most frequently broken trans- versely, and the accident may be occasioned either by the action of external bodies, or by that of the extensor muscles. In the latter case, the fall is subsequent to the fracture, and, as Cam- per has remarked, it is mostly only an effect of it. For instance, the line of gravity of the body is, by some.cause or another, inclined backward; the muscles in front contract to bring it forward again; the extensors act on the patella; this breaks, and the fall ensues. That it is the action of the muscles, and not the fall, which usually breaks the knee-pan, is well ascertained. Some- times the fracture occurs, though the patient completely succeeds in preventing himself from falling backward, as we find exemplified in two cases lately reported by Mr. A. Cooper. (Sur- gical Essays, Part 2, p. 85.) A soldier broke his patella in endeavouring to kick his serjeant; the olecranon has been broken in throwing a stone. In the operating theatre of the Hotel Dieu both the knee-pans of a patient were broken by the violent spasms of the muscles, which followed an operation for the stone. The force of the mus- cles occasionally ruptures the common tendon of the extensor muscles, or, what is more frequent, the ligament of the patella. Of these cases. Petit, Desault, and Sabatier, met with examples. When the patella is broken longitudinally, the cause is always outward violence. (Qbuvres Chir. de Desault, T. 1, p. 252.) A transverse fracture of the patella may also originate from a blow, or fall, on the part; but, in common cases, it is produced by the violent action of the extensor muscles of the leg. It ii. only of late years, however, that the true mode, in which the bone is usually broken, has been understood. As Boyer observes, for the pro- duction of a transverse fracture of the knee-pan, the extensor muscles of the leg need not act with a convulsive force, their ordinary action being strong enough to produce the effect in question, when the body is inclined backward, and the pa- tient is in danger of falling upon his occiput. In this state, the thigh being bent, the extensor muscles of the leg contract powerfully, in order to bring the body forwards, and prevent the fall backwards; and the patella, whose posterior sur- face then rests only by a point against the fore- part of the condyles of the femur, is placed be- tween the resistance of the ligament binding it to the tibia, and the action of the extensor mus- cles. A fracture now happens the more easily, because, by the flexion of the knee, the line of the extensor muscles, and that of the ligament of the patella, are rendered oblique, with respect to the vertical axis "of this bone, which is bent backwards at the point, where it rests upon the condyles. (Tvuitb des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 322. C. Bell’s Operative Surgery. Vol. 2, p. 201, Hvo. Loud. 1809. A. Cooper’s Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 86.) By violent spasmodic action of the extensor muscles, however, the patella may be broken transversely, while the limb is perfectly straight. A veiy singular case is mentioned by Mr. A. Cooper, w’here a patella, which had been formerly broken, and united by ligament, was again divided into two portions, in consequence of the destruction of the uniting medium by ulceration. (VoL cit. p. 100.) A case is also on record, where the ligamentous uniting sub- stance was so incorporated with the skin, that when the latter happened to be lacerated,, the knee-joint was laid open, and amputation became necessary. (C. Bell, Op. Surgery, Vol. 2, p. 204.) In transverse fractures, there is a considerable separation between the two- fragments of the bone, very perceptible to the finger, when the hand is placed on the knee. This separation is not occasioned equally by both portions; the