285 CAT CAT This is the best, and most convenient of all emollient poultices for common cases, and it nearlv superseded that of bread and milk, ch was formerly much more frequently em- tlr. Hunter speaks, in the following terms, of linseed poultice, and its uses. ; Poultices are commonly made ton t/ in ; by •h means, the least pressure, or their own •itv, removes them from the part; they should hick enough to support a certain form when ied. They are generally made „of stole bread, and This composition, in general, makes too Ic an application ; it breaks easily into dif- nt portions, from the least motion, and often es some part of the wound uncovered, which ustratinu the first intention. The poultice, which makes the best applica- , and continues most nearly the same between i dressing, is that formed of the meal of lin- l; it is made at once, and when applied, it )s always in one mass. The kind of wound, to which the above ap- ition is best adapted, is a wound made in a id part, which we intend shall heal by granu- n. The same application is equally proper n parts are deprived of life, and consequently I slough. It is therefore the very best dress- for a vunshoi wound, and probably for most a ted wounds; tor lint, applied to apart that throw off a slouch, will oftert be retained till slough is separated, which will be for eight, or more days.” ATAPLASMA MALI MATURI. This ade by roasting a ripe apple, removing the and core, and beating the pulp into a soft t. It is sometimes applied to inflamed eyes, leans of a little muslin bag. ATAPLASMA MURI ITIS SOD.®. Pulieris Lini, M'ccc Tunis a. a. paries at /ua- Aq, Sidre Muriates q. s. This is used for di- shing scrofulous tumors and glands. When cites too much irritation in the skirt, a linseed tice may be substituted for it, until this state subsided. ATAPLASMA PLUMBI SUBACETA- / Liquoris Plumbi Subacetatis drach. j. Aquae distillatae lib. j. Micae panis q. s.—Misce. ractitioners, who place much confidence in /irtues of lead, externally applied, often use poultice in cases of inflammation. AT \ PL ASM A QUERCUS MARINI, his is prepared by bruising a quantity of the nc plant commonly called tea tang, which erwardsto be applied by way of a poultice, s chief use is in cases of scrofula, white ings, and glandular tumors, hen this vegetable could not be obtained in cent state, a common poultice of sea-water >atmeal was substituted by the late Mr. Ilun- id other surgeons of eminence. ATARACT. (From xxra^yircw, to con- l or disturb; because the disease confounds •Stroys vision.) yXecf/wpii. iinXynj/xa. Gutta >■ Suji'usio. Der g a >c Slow. cataract is usually defined to be a weak- er impediment to sight, produced by opa- of the crystalline lens, or its capsule. Professor Beer applies the term to every percep- tible obstacle to vision, situated in the posterior chamber, between the vitreous humour and the uvea. (Lclire von den Augcokronkheiten, B. 2, p. 279, Rw. Wien. 1817.) Plippocrates and the ancient Greeks described the cataract, as a disease of the crystalline lens under the name of ■y'knvy uiuu; but, no sooner had Galen promulgated the doctrine of the lens being the immediate organ of sight, than the cor- rect opinion of the ancient founder of medicine began to decline, and for many ages afterwards, had no influence in practice. In fact, the seat of the cataract was entirely forgotten, till about 1656, when first Lasnier, and, afterwards, Borel, Bonnetus, Blegny, Geoffroi, &c. revived the truth which had been so long extinct; and they, and a few others, believed that the disease was situated in the crystalline lens. The bulk of practitioners, however, remained ignorant of this fact even as late as 1713, or, in other words, until the several publications of Mery, Maitre-Jan, Brisseau, and Ileister, combined to render the truth universally known. A cataract, even in its highest degree, does not always produce complete blindness. For the most part, its formation takes place slowly; the cases, in which it originates very quickly, being but few, and those in which it is suddenly produced in a complete form, still more unusual. The characteristic symptoms, commonly re- marked when a cataract is slowly formed, are the following : 1. All objects, especially' white ones, seem to the patient to be covered by a thin smutty' ordusty cloud, which as the late Mr. Ware observ- ed, is generally perceptible by the patient before any opacity is visibleinthepupil. 2. The decline of vision bears an exact proportion to the increasing opa- city distinguishable behind the pupil. 3. In most cases, the opacity is first discerned behind the pupil, most plainly also at the central point, the instances, in which it first presents itself at the edge of the pupil, being less frequent. 4. In eyes with a light coloured iris, the more progress a cataract makes the more clearly can one per- ceive at the edge of the pupil a blackish ring, which partly arises from the shadow of the iris falling on the cataract, but chiefly from the dark coloured pupillary' edge of the iris, which, in a clear pupil cannot be seen, but now that a greyish surface lies behind it, is rendered very manifest. 5. As a cataract generally begins at the central point behind the pupil, such objects as are placed directly in front of the eye, are most difficultly seen even in the early stage of the disease, but those which are laterally placed, especially when the light is not too strong, and of course the pu- pil a good deal dilated, can y'et be seen tolerably well. 6. Hence, when the opacity, at the cen- tral point behind the pupil, is at all considerable, tbe patient is completely blind in a strong light, while on the contrary, in a moderately dark room, a degree of vision is yet enjoyed. When the opacity is not far advanced, the eyesight may be improved for a short time by the patient’s turning his back to the light. 7. Persons with incipient cataracts derive the greatest palliative aid from e objects are answer, while To such pa- tients, the flame of a candle seems to be enye-r the use of convex glasses, becaus magnified by them ; but, they only thp nnncitv is inconsiderable. 8.