731 JOINTS. ^ [ kept in a stntc of extension. (Dcsunlt s Journal, ]'.'■>.) According to Mr. Abernetliy, the inner surface of the internal condyle of the os femoris ! presents an extensive and nearly a plain surface, which terminates in front and at its upper part by an edge which forms a portion of a circle. If the points of the linger be firmly pressed upon this edge so as to form a kind of line of circum- vallation round these (cartilaginous) bodies, they cannot pass into the joint in this direction, nor can they recede in any other, on account of the tense state of the internal lateral ligament. Here 3 : these substances are near the surface, and may | be distinctly felt: and they may be exposed by 1 - simplv dividing the integuments, fascia, and the 9 capsule of the joint. In an interesting case, which Mr. Abernetliy I .relates, the integuments of the knee were <1 ^gently pressed towards the internal condyle, and a t the fingers of an assistant applied round the cir- ?! eular edge of the bone. The integuments were gently drawn towards the inner ham-string, and longitudinally divided, immediately over the loose substance, to the extent of ail inch and an halt. This withdrawing of the integuments from their natural situation was designed to prevent a direct correspondence of the external wound to that in the capsule of the joint: for, when the integu- ments were suffered to regain their natural posi- tion, the wound in them was nearer to the pa- tella, than the wound in the capsule. The fascia, which covers the joint, having been exposed by the division of the integuments, it was divided in .a similar direction, and nearly to the same ex- ij ! tent. The capsule was now laid bare, and gently I < divided to the extent of half an inch, where it m covered one of the hard substances, which sud- i| r denly slipped through the opening, and by press- B ring gently upon the other, it was also discharged. I The bodies, thus removed, were about three I quarters of an inch in length, and half an inch H ; in breadth. They had a highly polished surface, 9 and were hard like cartilage. The fluid contained in the joint was pressed toward the wound, and about two ounces of synovia were discharged, i The wound of the integuments was then gently 1 drawn towards the patella, and accurately closed I with sticking plaster. (Surgical Observation//, [ 1304.) When there are several extraneous cartila- I . ginous bodies in the joint operated upon, the | surgeon ought to extract them all through the I same wound, if it can be done without producing I i too much irritation of the capsular ligament, and | t they will admit of it. But, frequently, only one J can be made to present itself at a time, or can be easily extracted. Each little tumor will then I r require a separate operation, which is a far safer | plan, than disturbing the part by long and re- peated attempts to extract them all at once. {Boner, Traite Acs Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 448.) ■ The surgeon is also often obliged to make his j incision at a particular point, because at no other can the extraneous substance be fixed. A case ■confirming all these latter observations was lately H published by Dr. Clarke. (See Med. Chir. I 'I runs. Vol. 5, p. 67.) In this instance, the I operation was thrice performed upon the same I knee-joint, with perfect success. Mr. Brodie I also extracted five loose cartilages, by three dif- ■ ferent operations, without any subsequent un- pleasant symptoms, although the patient appears to have been previously subject to repeated at- tacks of severe inflammation of the joint. (Patho- logical and Surg. Obs. p. 299.) On the preceeding subject some observations and two successful operations have been lately published by Baron Larrey. (See Memoir rs dc Chir. Militaire, T. 2, p. 421, <S[C.) With the exception of a few wrong theories, he ap- pears to have given a fair account of the disease. Hydrops Articuli signifies a collection of serous fluid in the capsular ligament of a joint. The knee is more subject, than other joints, to dropsical disease, which has been known, how- ever, to affect the wrist, ankle, and shoulder joints. [Boyer, Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 456.) Mr. Russell adopted the opinion, that some cases of this kind are venereal, and others scro- phulous; but, he has not supported the doctrine on any solid foundation. Hydrops articuli gene- rally arises from contusions, rheumatism, sprains, exposure to severe cold, the presence of extra- neous cartilaginous bodies in the joint, and in general from any thing, which irritates the cap- sular ligament; and, as already explained, it is a common attendant on inflammation of the synovial membrane; the complaint also some- times follows fevers; but, in most instances, it is purely a local affection, quite independent of ge- neral debility. {Boyer, T. 4, p. 467.) Hydrops articuli presents itself in the form of a soft tumor; circumscribed by the attachments of the capsular ligament; without change of colour in the skin; accompanied with a fluctua- tion ; it is indolent, and very little painful; causing hardly any impediment to the motion of the joint; yielding to the pressure of the finger, but not retaining any impression, as in oedema. The swelling does not occupy equally every side of the joint, being most conspicuous where the capsular ligament is loose and superficial. In the wrist, it occurs at the anterior and posterior parts of the joint, but, especially, in the former situa- tion, while it is scarcely perceptible at the sides. In the ankle, it is more apparent in front of the malleoli, than any where else; and, in the shoulder, it does not surround the joint, but is almost al- ways confined to the forepart of it, and can only be seen in the interspace between the deltoid and great pectoral muscles. In the knee-joint, which is the common situa- tion of hydrops articuli, the tumor does not occur behind the articulation ; but at the front and sides. Behind, the capsular ligament is too narrow to admit of being much distended with the synovia; while, in front, and laterally, it is broad, so that it can there yield considerably in proportion as the quantity of fluid increases. The swelling is at first circumscribed by the attachments of the capsular ligament; but, in consequence of the accumulation of fluid, it afterwards exceeds these limits above, and spreads more or less upward between the thigh bone and the extensor muscles of the leg, which are lifted up by it. Boyer has seen it reach to the upper third of the thigh. The swelling is irregular in shape: it is most prominent, where the capsular ligament is wide and loose, arid it is in some measure divided longitudinally into two lateral portions, by the patella, the ligament of the patella, and the