NECROSIS. 841 (See Med. Ols. ami Inquiries, This fact is proved by examples mentioned by Saviard, Pott, Sabatier, &c. •C. ircumference. 7ol. 2.) We may infer, that the occurrence is more requent iu the tibia than any other bone, from ie accumulated facts, mentioned by Albucasis, ,a Marche, Muralto, De La Motte, Ellinchuys, luvsch, Tacconi, Laing, Johnson, Hunter, )a"vid, Boehmer, Sigwart, Tli. Bartholine, Hof- }acn, Saviard, Le Dran, Duverney, Trioen, Junther, Ludwig, Michael, Bousselin, Weid- lann, Russell, Whately, Desault, &c. See the rorks referred to at the end. Dr. Hunter mentions a tibia, which was sent o him by a Mr. Inett, after amputation. On [ xsinir.ation, the case at first sight seemed to be swelling of the whole bone, with a loose inter- i al exfoliation. However, it proved to be a emarkable instance of the separation of the greatest part of the original bone whose place . ,-as supplied by a callus. The external sur- ace of the inclosed loose piece of bone was mootb. A small part of the surrounding bony ubstance being removed, the contained piece vas taken out, and found to be the whole body >f the tibia. It had separated from the epiphysis it each extremity. The middle part of the bone lad perished, consequently, had lost its con- lexion with the periosteum, and was gradually iirown off from the living parts of the bone at tach end. A callus extended from end to end, mited the two extremities of the original tibia, ireserved the length, and gave firmness and nflexibility to the part. The exfoliation was so mcompassed by the new bony case, that, though juite loose, it could not be thrown out. (Med. Obs. and Inq. Vol. 2.) Weidmann saw a shoemaker, who, after much iutfering, extracted himself the greatest part of .he diaphysis of the tibia; yet, the loss was so well repaired, that the man could walk afterwards nearly as ably as ever. (De Nccrosi Ossium, p. 29.) “ We are not to imagine, (says Weidmann,) that these regenerations happen by chance : ex- periments made upon living animals by Troja, Blumenbaeh, Koehler, Desault, and myself, prove, that they invariably follow certain laws.” In fact, whenever the medullary structure of the long bones of pigeons, or dogs, is destroyed, these bones become affected with necrosis, and are afterwards reproduced to the full extent of their destruction. The observations and experiments, cited by Weidmann, also prove, that it is the long bones which are usually reproduced; though the flat ones are not entirely destitute of the power of regeneration, since experience full)' evinces, that, when h When, in a case of necrosis, says Weidmann, a scale, or table of either a long, or flat bone, is separated, no regeneration follows, because the granulations, which rise up under the seques- trum, then serve as a periosteum, and as soon as the dead bone is removed, they become united to the adjacent parts. It is likewise ascertained, that the power of reproduction in the bones is particularrly active in the early periods of life, and in healthy sub- jects ; and that it is languid and even annihilated in old persons, pregnant women, (Bunns The- saur.p. 174,) and in venereal, cancerous, and rieketty patients. (Callisen, Syst. Chir. Ilodi- ernee, Pars 1, p. 636.) In order that a new bone may form, the peri- osteum and other membranes, concerned in the nutrition of the original bone, must have been spared from destruction. In fact, continues Weidmann, we observe, that in cases where the tube of a long bone has suffered necrosis, the bone is never reproduced, when the periosteum has been destroyed by inflammation, or other causes. Surgeons ought also to understand that it is not always a reproduction which has happened, when a part of a bone perishes ; not even when a tubular portion of a long bone dies, and is contained in the medullary canal. For, says Weidmann, if the innermost layers of a long bone perish, while those which compose, as it were, the bark, are preserved, the latter swell and soften, as if they were actually a new bone. Several round apertures are observable upon their surface, which serve for the transmission of ves- sels, and are larger than those, which perform this office in the natural state. There are like- wise formed large openings, or fistuke, which, as in a new bone, lead to the medullary canal. Here it would be erroneous to conclude, that a new bone has been produced, and a very little attention will discover, that all is limited to some changes in the external part of the bone, which the necrosis has not affected. When, therefore, the interior of the canal of a long bone is destroyed by a necrosis, which does not extend to the external layers, the case is not a reproduction of the bone. When, however, we find the tube of any long- bone included in a sort of osseous shell, and the surface of this tube smooth, like that of a bone in the natural state, we maybe certain, that it has been detached directly from the periosteum, and that the bony shell, which contains it, is a new production. On the contrary, if the sur- face of the dead tube is rough, we may infer. when a portion of the skull is removed, either by that the separation has taken°place between the a wound, by disease, or by the trepan, nature innermost layers of the bone, and those which always endeavours to cover the deficiency, the edges of the aperture extending themselves by means of a bony substance, furnished by the peri- osteum, the dura mater, and cranium itself. (Tenon Mem. dc I Acad. Acs Sciences, 1750, p. 412,413, 415, 416, 418.) But, still the re- production is imperfect, as a space unfilled up is a'waya left, even when the bone has lost only a SI.n.a Pleco> like what is taken out by the tre- 1 l,ne > and when the destruction of the cranium is scry extensive, no reproduction at all happens. are superficial, the latter composing now the os- seous shell, in which the sequestrum is included. ( Weidmann De Nccrosi Ossium, p. 31.) This last theory, concerning the production of the osseus shell in necroses of the long cy- lindrical bones, is adopted by Richerand as the true one, not only in the instances specified by Weidmann, but in every other example, where the old bone seems to be included in another which has the appearance of being a new pro- duction, and which was supposed by Troja,