sn anil rapidly sunk. (See Med. Chir. Trims. Vol. 7, p. 427.) Consult Ruysch'i Obs. Aunt. Warner's Cases in Surgery, li. Bell's Sy- stem of Surgery, Vol. 5. Aerel in Schtccd. Abhandl. x. B. p. 291, ijv. Murray, Op use. 2, .Vo. 5. ct Med. Pract. Bibl. 3, p. 612. Portal Court d'Amt. Med. T. 4, p. 66. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. 1, p. 260, ct seq. Edit. ISO!). Abcrnethy's Surgical and Physiological Essays, Part 1 and S. T. V. Okes, An Account if Spina Bfida, with Remarks on the Method f Treatment,proposed by Mr. Abenicthy, 8vo. Cambridge, 1810. Encyclopedic Methodique, Part Chir. Art. Spina Bifida. Richter, An- ifangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 5, Kap. A. Cooper 'll Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 2, p. 322, 8(C. II. Earle, in the same work, Vol. 7, p. 427, <|r. I Edinb. Med. arid Surg. Journ. No. 67. SPINA VENTOSA. The Arabian writers irst employed this term to express a disease, in which matter formed in the interior of a bone, t and afterwards made its way outward beneath the skin. Until the matter had escaped from within the bone, these authors describe the pain as ■being incessant and intolerable; but that after the pus had made its way outward by fistulous open- ings, the pain underwent a considerable diminu- tion. The matter sometimes insinuated itself, from the interior of the bone, into the cellular substance, so as to render it soft and flabby, fthough not always attended with any change of colour in the skin. The swelling had some of die appearance of emphysema. To express this 'state, the Arabians added the term vcnlosa to ;hat of spina, which was employed, before their time, to express the nature of the pain attendant on the disease. (See an account of this subject in the Encyclopedic Mithodiquc, Part Chir. Art. Spina Vcntosa.) The term spina vcntosa has, since the time of the Arabian writers, been used by many to signify the disease named •white-swelling, and the former might also mean by it a similar* af- fection, though the contrary may be inferred from their account of the matter passing from the interior of the bone under the integuments, a thing which I believe never yet happened in any case of white-swelling. Another, and per- i haps, a decisive argument, against the original ■ signification of the word being the same as that of white-swelling, is, that it was not restricted to diseases of the joints and heads of the bones ; but was also applied to abscesses, which com- menced in the cavities of the middle portions of the long bones, where, I need hardly observe, • white-swellings never make their attack. Por these reasons, many respectable authors have implied by the term spina vcnlosa, an abscess, in the interior of the bone. (See, on this subject, Latta’s System of Surgery, Vol. V P- 165.) Cases of this latter kind, I know, are infinitely rare, compared with that common disorder, the white-swelling; and, I am also certain, from the descriptions given by some authors, that their cases of spina ventosa were m reality instances of necrosis. But, that ab- scesses do occur, and begin in the interior of the *,nes> n'ore particularly of those of young per- sons, l have no doubt myself, both from two or t tree cases, which I remember having seen in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and from some cases SPL 983 recorded by the most authentic writers. I can- not conceive, however, that suppuration coil take place to any extent within a long bone, without being followed by necrosis. J. L. Petit relates, that a man, with a tumor on the middle of the tibia, who had been treated by him as a venereal patient, found, a fortnight afterwards, that the pains which hud never ceased, now began to grow more violent. The patient was feverish, his legs became red, and even pain- ful, externally. An incision was made in the situation of the tumor with a view of letting out the matter which was suspected to be the occa- sion of the bad symptoms, and to have insinuated itself under the periosteum. The incision was of no service, and, two days afterwards, the tre- pan was applied, by which means, a large quan- tity of matter was let out. The medullary part of the bone seemed quite annihilated, and the cavity almost empty. Petit made three other perforations with the trepan, and cut away the intervening pieces of bone. The actual cautery was also used several times to destroy the caries, and the patient at length got well. (Traite dcs Maladies dcs Os, de J. L. Petit.) If any one doubt, that abscesses now and then form in the middle of the long bones, I must request him to consult Mr. Hey’s Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 22, where he may peruse two very interesting cases illustrative of what Mr. Pley calls Abscess in the Tibia with Caries. It must be confessed, however, that these were only cases of necrosis, for which affection the term caries is too often inaccurately used. Indeed, it would appear, from the observations of Dr. Macartney, that a very small suppuration in the medulla is accompanied with the begin- ning of those changes of the periosteum, which attend necrosis. (See Necrosis, p. 762.) For an account of spina ventosa, in the sense of white-swelling, refer to Joints. J. Pandolphinus, De Ventositatis Spincc Scevis- simo Morlo, \‘2mo. Norib. 1674. A. J. van der Mcer, De Spina Ventosa, Duisb. 1729. F. L. Augustin, de Spina Vcntosa Ossium, Icon. 4, Ato. Halce, 17,97. F. II. Schuchardt, Ahnotata queedam de Spina Vcntosa, cum an- nexa singulari hvjus morbi observatione, 12mo. Marburg. 1817. SPIRITUS AMMONITE COMPOSITUS. Besides the well known uses of this medicine in- ternally exhibited, its vapours are an exceedingly proper application to the eye in some cases of chronic ophthalmy. Scarpa recommends a re- medy of a similar nature. SPLINTS. Long thin pieces of wood, or tin, or strong pasteboard, employed for prevent- ing the ends of broken bones from moving so as to interrupt the process by which fractures unite. These instruments are sometimes used in other cases, for the purpose of keeping limbs from moving, particularly in some kinds of disloca- tions, wounds, &c. In simple fractures of the arm, forearm, or even of the thigh, or leg, in young infants, it matters not whether the splints be made of wood, pasteboard, or tin. In this country, surgeons usually keep sets of splints made expressly for the leg. These are of different sizes, excavated and shaped to the part, and furnished below with apertures for the projecting tnullcoli. When