812 MORTIFICATION. Ostium h( the Philutyphical Transactions; Act. J/uJukut.; Ephem. Nat. Cur.; Saviard’s Ot,x. Chir.i the writings ofForestus ; Gooch's Chirurgical Works, Vol. 2, p. 3.9:1—399. Ed. 1792, dpc. James Wilson, Lectures on the Structure and Physiology of the Parts com- posing the Skeleton ; and on the Diseases of the Bones and Joints, p. 252, &c. 8vo. Loud. 1821).) MONOCULUS. (from povi;, single, ami - oculus, the eye.) A bandage formerly applied to the fistula lachrymalis, and diseases of the eye. It consists ot a single-headed roller three ells long. In order to apply it to the right eye, it is to he held in the hand, and its end in the left, ct vice versa. This end is to be put on the bade of the neck, and one turn of the roller is to be carried round, over the forehead, so as to meet the ex- tremity of the bandage. The roller is then to de- scend under the ear of the side affected, and to pass obliquely over the cheek underneath the eye, and next over the root of the nose, and opposite the parietal bone, to the nape of the neck. The third turn of the roller is to overlap the second a little ; the third the fourth ; making what the French call iloloires; and the application of the bandage is completed by making turns round the head. The use of the rnonoeulus was only to retain dressings. (Encyclopedic. Meihodltpic ; Partic Chir.) MORTIFICATION is of two kinds; the one, without inflammation; the other, preceded by it. To this last species of mortification, the terms, inflammatory, humid, or acute gangrene, are often applied; while the second, or that which is not preceded by any or much inflammation, has been distinguished by the epithets, dry, or chronic, and sometimes idiopathic, when no cause for the origin of the disease can be as- signed. According to Mr. Hunter, inflamma- tion is an increased action of that power, which a part naturally possesses; and in healthy in- flammations, at least, it is probably attended with an increase of power. In cases, however, which are to terminate in mortification, there is no increase of power; but, on the contrary, a diminution of it. This, when joined to an in- creased action, becomes a cause of mortification, by destroying the balance, which ought to subsist between the power and action .of every part. There are, besides, cases of mortification, pre- ceded by inflammation, which do not arise wholly from that, as a cause: of this kind, are the car- buncle and the slough formed in the small-pox pustule. {Hunter.) The first general division of mortification, therefore, is into two kinds; first, into the in- flammatory, humid, or acute; and secondly, into the dry, or chronic. But the disorder is also subdivided into many species, which are de- termined by the nature of their particular ex- citing causes, as will be presently detailed. However, it is remarked, that acute, or rapid mortifications, are not necessarily humid, as the slough from the application kali purum proves, and the converse also_ is true in some cases of sphacelus senilis. {James on Inflammation, p. 1)6.) Another modern writer also asserts, that mortification from wounds and external in- juries may be cither humid, or dry, or of both kinds together, where the circumstances arc par- ticular. {Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds, §c. />. 122, Ed. 2.) The doctrine also that an case ol mortification is entirely without inlluin •nation, has sometimes been deemed question able; and Mr. James expresses bis belief, tba the disorder is generally preceded by itillanirntt- tion, and invariably accompanied with some de gree of it. Arid, says lie, *•< whether mortifica- tion he a consequence of inilammation, or riot, i may, perhaps, with reason he considered, a; standing in the same relation to inilammation as adhesion, suppuration, or ulceration: they may all be preceded by a high degree, or it may be scarcely sensible.” (P. 84, 85.) When any part of the body loses all motion, sensibility, and natural heat, and becomes of a brown, livid, or black colour, it is said to be affected with sphacelus, that is, complete mor tifieation. As long as any sensibility, motion, and warmth, continue, the state of the disorder is termed gangrene. This word is here made use of to signify only a degree of sphacelus, or rather the process, by which any local disorder falls into the stale of complete mortification. Many authors use both terms synonymously; but it is to be observed that gangrene dot s nut invariably end in sphacelus; nor is the latter always preceded by the former. {Richter. Au- fangsgr. der Wundarzn. B. 1, Kup. 8.) There are some surgical writers, who make the di- stinguishing circumstance of sphacelus to be the extension of the disorder to the bones as well as tiie soft parts. {Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. \ , p. AO, Ed. 1809.) At present, however, this last application of the term sphacelus is never made; for, as Mr. Pearson lias rightly observed, the distinctions, “ which are founded merely upon the parts, that suffer, or upon the profundity, to which the dis- ease has penetrated, seem inadequate and use- less.” {Principles of Surgery, p. 115, Ed. 2.) The manner, in which Dr. J. Thomson views the subject, may be considered as coinciding with the general sentiments of the best modern surgeons. “ I shall employ the term, gangrene, (says he) to express that state of mortification, in inflamed parts, which precedes the death of the part; a stage, in which there is a diminution, but not a total destruction of the powers of life; in which the blood appears to circulate through the larger vessels; in which the nerves retain a portion of their sensibility; and in which, per- haps, the part affected may still be supposed to be capable of recovery. Hie word, sphacelus, I shall use to denote the complete death, or mor- tification of a part; that state, in which the powers of life have become extinct; in which the blood ceases to circulate; and in which the sensibility of the nerves is lost, whether the dead, or mortified part has, or has not, become actually putrid, or shewn any tendency to separate and fall away from the living and sound parts. Putrefaction, or the spontaneous process, by which animal bodies are decomposed, is an ac- cidental, and not a necessary effect of the state of mortification. It takes place at very different periods, after the death of particular parts; and these periods, it may be remarked, are always regulated, not only by external circumstances, such as the humidity and temperature of the atmosphere, but, also, by the peculiar structure and morbid conditions of the animal texture, ur