250 BURNS. given in this stage, are almost always injurious.” (See Lectures on /tifluinmotion, p. 594 ) \Y itli respect to the topical applications re- commended by this gentleman, he generally pre- fers in cuses of superficial burns cooling and re- frigerant remedies. When there are vesications, and suppuration takes place without ulceration, he advises us, after refrigerants have ceased to produce beneficial effects, to use the linimentum aijuai ealcis. However, where the progress of cicatrization is slow, he recommends, instead of this liniment, ointments containing lead, or zinc, particularly, the unguentum lapid. cala- minaris. In the ulcerating state of suppurating burns, he prefers emollient cataplasms. But, when the discharge continues, or becomes more pro- fuse under the use of poultices, they are to be left off and astringent washes employed, such as lime-water, the compound decoction of oak- bark; a weak solution of sulphate of copper; &c. Where the parts are destroyed and converted into sloughs, Dr. Thomson does not think it matters much whether vinegar, oily liniments, turpentine, spirits of wine, or emollient poul- tices, be at first employed. He acknowledges, however, that the poultice is the remedy, under the application of which, the separation of the dead parts is most easily and agreeably accom- plished. “The question (says he) at present most deserving the attention of medical practi- tioners, with regard to the use of the warm emol- lient poultice in burns, is, whether we should apply it immediately after the burn has been re- ceived, or interpose for some hours, as has been so strongly recommended, dressings with vinegar, spirits of wine, or oil of turpentine, My own experience has not been sufficient to enable me to determine this point to my entire satisfaction. Yet, I think it right to state to )rou, that, in a number of trials made at different times, I have had occasion to see burns, to which common emollient poultices had been from the first ap- plied, slough and granulate faster, and in a more kindly manner, than similar burns in the same persons, to which in some instances the Carron oil (lin. an. calcis.) and, in others again oil of turpentine, were applied at the same time with the poultices.” (See Lectures on Inf inti- mation, p. 602.) mu. cleghorn’s plan. This gentleman, who was a brewer at Edin- burgh, was induced to pay great attention to the (.•fleets of various modes of treating burns, on account of the frequency of these accidents amorigstliis own workmen. His observations led him to prefer the immediate application of vine- gar, which was to be continued for some hours, by any of the most convenient means, until the pain abated; and when this returned, the vine- gar was repeated. If the burn had been so severe as to have produced a destruction of parts, these, as soon as the pain had ceased, were covered with a poultice, the application of which was continued about six, or, at most, eight hours, and after its removal the parts were entirely covered with very finely powdered chalk, so as to take away every appearance of moisture on the surface of the sore. This being done, the whole burnt surface was again coverod with the poultice. The same mode was pursued every night and morning, until the cure was complete. It the use of poultices relaxed the ulcers too much, a plaster, or ointment, containing sub- carbonate of lead, was applied; but the chalk was still sprinkled upon the sore. With respect to general remedies, Mr. Cleg- horn allowed his patients to eat boiled, or roasted fowl, or, in short, any plainly dressed meat, which they liked. He did not object to their taking moderate quantities of wine, spirits and water, ale, or porter. He never had occasion to order bark, or any internal medicines whatever, and lie- only once thought it necessary to let blood. When the patient was costive, Mr. Cleghorn or- dered boiled pot-barley and prunes, or some other laxative nourishing food, and sometimes an in- jection, but never any purgative, as he remarked that the disturbance of frequently going to stool was distressing to a patient with bad sores. Be- sides, he thought that a hurtful weakness and languor were always (more or less) brought on by purgatives. From the effects, too, which he felt them have upon himself, and observed them to have upon others, they did not seem to have so much tendency to remove heat and feverish symptoms as is generally supposed, and he believed, that they more frequently carried off’ useful humours, than hurtful ones. Diluted sulphuric acid was not found to answer so well as vinegar, and the latter produced most benefit, when it was fresh and lively to the taste. In cold weather, Mr. Cleghorn sometimes warmed the vinegar a little, placed the patients near the fire, gave them something warm inter- nally, and kept them, in every respect, in a comfortable situation. His object, in so doing, was to prevent the occurrence of tremblings, and chilness, which, in two instances, after employ- ing cold vinegar, took place in an alarming degree. The account of Mr. Cleghorn’s plan was pub- lished by Mr. Hunter. (See Med. Fticls and Observations, Vol. 2.) SIR JAMES Earle’s PLAN. This gentleman was an advocate for the use of cold water, or rather ice; and published several cases of extensive burns, in which this method was employed with the best effect. Cold water was enumerated by Mr. B. Bell, amongst the applications to burns, and it was not uncom- monly used long before Sir James Earle com- municated the result of his experience to the public. The method, indeed, is very ancient. “ Cold is a remedy (says Dr. J. Thomson) which has long been employed to diminish the inflammation of superficial burns. llhazes directs, that, in recent burns, cloths dipt in cold water, or in rose-water cooled with snow, be applied as soon as possible to the parts which have been injured, and that these cloths be re- newed from time to time; and Avicenna says, that this practice often prevents the formation of blisters.” (Lectures on Injiammotion, p. 569.) Sir James Earle’s publication, however, had the good effect of drawing considerable attention to the subject, and of leading surgeons to try the method in a great number of instances, in which other more hurtful modes of treatment might otherwise have been employed. The burnt parts may cither be plunged in cold water, or they ma\