822 MORTIFICATION. Other acids arc also sometimes used for the same purpose. Carbonic acid gas is another remedy of the highest efficacy in cases of ehronic mortification. It has even been known to have the most bene- ficial effects when bark has failed in doing good. Water impregnated with this gas should be re- commended, as a most beneficial kind of drink. The hospital gangrene is a case, for which bark has been much recommended. Thebestmode of treating this particular case, however, has been detailed in a separate article. (See Hospital Gangrene.) A third indication, which should be observed together with the second, or which should even precede it in many instances, is to lessen the irritability and sufferings of the patient, by the use of opium. Attention to this desideratum frequently contributes more, than any thing else, to stop the progress of the disorder, and is often indispensable in order to promote the operation of other remedies. In all cases of mortification, every thing which heats, irritates, or adds to the patient’s sufferings, appears, in general, to aug- ment the disorder, and increase the rapidity of its progress. On the other hand, every thing which tends to calm, assuage, and relax, fre- quently retards the progress of mortification, if it produce no greater good. The pain also, which is a constant mark of too much irritation, contributes of itself to increase such irritation, and, in this double point of view, we cannot do better, in the majority of cases, than endeavour to appease it by the judicious and liberal use of opium. When the inflammatory stage evidently prevails, this medicine may be conjoined with antiphlogistic remedies, such as the nitrate of pot- assa, antimony, &c. In other instances, attended with debility, it may be given with bark and cordials. Mr. Pott has described a species of morti- fication, for which bark is most frequently inef- fectual, and opium the remedy, which is to be depended upon. It is that particular kind, which, beginning at the extremity of one or more of the small toes, does, in more or less time, pass on to the foot and ankle, and sometimes to a part of the leg, and, in spite of all the aid of physic and surgery, most commonly destroys the patient. It is very unlike the mortification from inflam- mation, that from external cold, from ligature, or bandage, or from any known and visible cause, and this as well in its attack as in its progress. In some few instances, it makes its appearance with little or no pain ; but, in by much the majority of these cases, the patients feel great uneasiness ihrough the whole foot and joint of the ankle, particularly in the night, even before these parts shew any mark of distemper, or before there is any other, than a small discoloured spot on the end of one of the little toes. It generally makes its first appearance on the inside, or at the extremity, of one of the smaller toes, by a small black or blueish spot; from this spot the cuticle is always found to be detached, and the skin under it to be of a dark red colour. If the patient has lately cut his nails, or corn, it is most frequently, though very unjustly, set to the account of such operation. In some patients, it is slow and long in pass- ing from toe to toe, and from thence to the foot and ankle ; in others, its progress is rapid, and horridly painful: it generally begins on the; I inside of each small toe, before it is visible either! on its under or upper part;.and when it makes! its attack on the foot, the upper part of it first! I shews its distempered state, by tumefaction,! [ change of colour, and sometimes by vesication; but wherever it is, one of the first marks of it I l is a separation or detachment of the cuticle. Each sex is liable to it; but, (says Mr. Pott) “ for one female in whom I have met with it, I think I may say, that I have seen it in at least: twenty males. I think also that I have much | more often found it in the rich and voluptuous, j than in the labouring poor; more often in great; eaters, than free drinkers. It frequently happens : to persons advanced in life, but is by no means | peculiar to old age. It is not, in general, pre- ceded or accompanied by apparent distemperature i either of the part, or of the habit. I do not know any particular kind of constitution which is more liable to it than another; but as far as my ob- servation goes, 1 think that I have most fre- quently observed it to attack those who have f been subject to flying uncertain pains in' their i feet, which they have called gouty, and but seldom in those who have been accustomed to have the gout regularly and fairly. It has, by some, been supposed to arise from an ossification of vessels ; but for this opinion I never could find any foundation but mere conjecture.” In this article I have already stated the ob- servations of Cowper, Dr. Thomson, and Mr. Hodgson upon the ossified state of the arteries in this species of mortification. The facts, re- corded by the two latter writers, at least prove, that the opinion is founded, not upon mere con- jecture, as Mr. Pott alleges, but upon actual ob- servation and experience. With respect to the insufficiency of peruvian bark, Mr. Pott obseves : “ I believe I may ven- ture to say, that I have tried it as fairly, as fully, and as variously as any man has or can; I have given it in the largest quantity, at the shortest intervals, and for the longest possible space; that is, as long as the patient’s life would permit: I have given it by itself in decoction, extract, and substance; I have combined all these to- gether; I have joined it with nitre, sal. absynth. with snake root, with confect, cardiac, with vola- tile salts, and with musk, as different circum- stances seemed to require, or admit; I have used it as fomentation, as poultice, as dressing; I have assisted it with every thing which has been usually thought capable of procuring or assisting digestion; still the distemper has con- tinued its course, perhaps a little more slowly, but still it has ended in death.” Mr. Pott afterwards relates the first cases in which he gave opium. His plan was generally to give one grain every three or four hours; but never less than three, or four grains, in the course of four and twenty hours. Mr. Pott, however, did not propose opium, as an universal infallible specific; but only as a medicine, which would cure many cases, not to be saved by bark. The observations of Mr. Pott on the local treatment of these cases are of great practical importance: no part of his writings has a stronger claim to attention. “ 1 have found (says lie) more advantage from