LACHRYMAL ORGANS. 755 owning of the sac a small dossil of lint, and covers°it with a bit of sticking plaster. In two hours, the patient is to try to force the lower end of the catgut out of the nostril, by driving the air through the opening, while the mouth and opposite nostril are shut. As soon as the end of the catgut is secured, it is to be turned over the side of the nose, and fixed there with a piece of sticking plaster. The next day, the bit of plas- ter over the sac is to be loosened with warm water, and together with the dossil of lint, taken away, and one of the lotions, hereafter specified, injected down the passage. The upper end of the catgut on the forehead is next to be unfast- ened, and a fresh portion of it covered with some of the applications, presently mentioned, when the patient is to draw it into the sac and duct, by gently pulling the end, which hangs out of the nostril. The superfluous lower piece of cat- gut is now cut away, and the new piece turned up, and fixed to the side of the nose. The injec- tion is again repeated, and the dressings applied, as before. The same method is to be continued, until the whole of the first piece of catgut is ex- pended. Some water, coloured with the vinous tincture of opium, is now to be thrown down the sac, in order to see, whether any part of the fluid will pass into the nose, and what progress has been made. Then a larger piece of catgut is employed, exactly in the manner of the first, and when it is all exhausted, the coloured injec- tion is to be used again, in order to learn what advance has been made in the re-establishment of the natural diameter of the passage. Lastly, a catgut of still larger size is to be used, after which the coloured injection will be found, when the patient inclines his head forwards, to run freely out of the nostril, and not merely drop into it, as it did previously. When this is the state of things, all further dilatation becomes unneces- sary. (jBeer, Lehre von den Augcnkr. B. 2, p. 169—172.) This author then repeats his decided opinion, that the mechanical treatment with catgut, bougies, cannulae, &c., will only answer, when attention is paid to rectifying the morbid state of the mucous membrane of the lachrymal sac by means of suitable applications, the use of which, he thinks, ought to commence with the first em- ployment of the catgut. And, he adds, that even such treatment will only succeed, when the diseased state of the membrane of the sac is en- tirely a local complaint, and uncomplicated with any unfavourable condition of the health. In the beginning, if the probe can be introduced without any great trouble, and the lining of the duct is only trivially thickened, Beer moistens the catgut, on its daily introduction into the passage, with the vinous tincture of opium, and injects into the sac a lukewarm lotion, contain- ing the proportions of subacetate of copper, ni- trate of potass, alum, camphor, and vinum opii, specified in one of the preceding columns. The lint, which Beer places in the orifice of the sac, is also dipped in the vinum opii. When the probe meets with more resistance, the catgut is smeared with the unguentum hydrargyri nitrati, which is to be at first weakened, and afterwards gradually increased in strength. The wound is also to be dressed with the same application, and some of the following lotion injected down the sac twice a day: ]^. Aq. Itos. ^iv. Ilydrarg. Oxymur. grj. ss. gr. j. Mucil. pur. 3j. Vini opii 3j. M. When any irregularities and indurated points are felt with the probe in the course of the nasal duct, Beer smears the catgut with an oint- ment, containing a small quantity of red precipi- tate, ana directs frictions with a little campho- rated mercurial ointment to be employed every day round the external opening. Beer joins the generality of writers in believ- ing, that a long perseverance in the mechanical means is necessary, in order to remove all dispo- sition in the nasal duct to close again. (IJ. 176'.) And, as the use of the probes, syringe, catgut, and dossils of lint, may be supposed to have done more or less injury to the lachrymal ducts, so as to cause some impediment to the due convey- ance of the tears into the lachrymal sac, Beer advises a trial to be made, whether a couple of drops of some coloured fluid, introduced into the inner canthus, while the patient is lying upon his back, will pass into the lachrymal sac; and, if they will not do so, the same author thinks, that an attempt should be immediately made to clear the lachrymal ducts, by tneans of Anel’s probe. (P. 177.) According to Beer, the foregoing treatment is perfectly useless, whenever the lachrymal puncta and ducts are obliterated ; because, even, if it were practicable to restore their perviousness, it would yet be impossible to communicate to the new-formed apertures and canals the power of absorbing the tears and conveying them into the lachrymal sac. He thinks, that, in this state of things, the practitioner need not trouble himself about the condition of the nasal duct; because, even if it were rendered duly pervious, this im- provement would not continue long, as Beer's experience has fully convinced him, that, when the mucous secretion of the lachrymal sac is not blended with the tears, a closure of the nasal duct sooner or later ensues, and of course an accu- mulation of the mucus of the sac, a disease, sometimes termed, under such circumstances, hydrops sacculi lachrymails. And, in order to prevent this complaint in the state of things just now described, Beer is an advocate for the total obliteration of the cavity of the sac with escharo- tics. (B. 2, p. 181.) Such is the practice of Beer, with the view of clearing away obstruction in the nasal duct, and restoring its natural diameter. Let us now con- sider what methods have been suggested by others. Beginning then with the screw, invented by Fabricius ab Aquapendente, for compressing the distended lachrymal sac, I need only remark with M. Nicod, that, as this plan was not directed against the cause of the disease, it is not sur- prising, that it should have been unavailing, and ultimately banished from practice. In the year 1716, Anel invented a probe of so.small a size, that it was capable of passing from the up- per punctum lachymale into the lachrymal sac, and nasal duct, the obstructions in which latter pas- sage it was intended to remove. Anel also in- vented a syringe, whose pipe was small enough to enter one of the puncta, and by that means to furnish an opportunity of injecting a liquor into the sac and duct; and with these two instruments he pretended to be nble to cure the disease when- ever it consisted in obstruction merely, and the 3 C 2