661 HYDROCELE. would' dangerously aggravate the hydro-sar- cocele. Mr. Pott observes, that “ it may, and does sometimes become necessary to let out the water liom the vaginal coat of a testicle, in some de- gree diseased; but this should always be done with caution, and under a guarded prognostic; lest the patient be not only disappointed, by not having that permanent relief, which, for want of better information, he may be induced to ex- pect; but be also (possibly) subjected to other unexpected inconveniences from the attempt. “ VV hen the disease is a perfect, true, simple hydrocele, the testicle, though frequently some what enlarged, and perhaps loosened in its vas- cular texture, is nevertheless sound, healthy, and capable of executing its proper office ; neither is the spermatic cord any way altered from a na- tural state, except that its vessels are generally somewhat dilated; neither of which circum- stances are objections either to the palliative or radical cure of the disease. But, in those disor- ders, which in some degree resemble this, the case is different; either the testicle, or spermatic cord, or both, bearing evident marks of a diseased state.” According to Richerand, a hydrocele may be known from a sareocele by the following circum- stances : in a sareocele, the tumor mostly retains the shape of the testicle, being oval, and a little flattened at the sides, and its size becomes con- siderable in a short time, without ascending so near the abdominal ring, as a hydrocele does, when of the same magnitude. A large hydro- cele leaves no interspace between that opening and the tumor, so that it is difficult to take hold of, and lift up the spermatic cord; but, in a ?ar- cocele, there is always a space between the tumor and the ring, where the cord can be distinctly felt. Lastly, in a sareocele, the tumor is always opaque, and its weight, in reference to its size, much more considerable, than that of a hydro- cele. (Nosogr. Chir. T. 4, p. 267, Ed. 4.) The hardness is not a symptom which can be trusted alone, as a criterion of a diseased testicle; for, when a hydrocele is extremely distended, it often feels so indurated as to deceive practition- ers of great experience, and a thickened, harden- ed state of the tunica vaginalis may facilitate the mistake. In some instances of hydro-sarcoeele, the nature of the disease sometimes remains questionable, until the evacuation of the fluid gives the surgeon a fair opportunity of ascertain- ing the diseased state of the testifcle. The complication of an hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis with an encysted one of the spermatic cord, may generally be known by the swellings having begun at two different points, and by a kind of constriction between them. The latter symptom, however, is not infallible, because the tunica vaginalis of a common hydrocele is some- times more or less contracted at the middle of the tumor, which is thus made to appear as if there were two distinct pouches. The size of a hydrocele, and the thickness of the tunica vaginalis, are generally in a ratio to the time, which the disease has continued. Some- times the latter membrane acquires nearly a car- tilaginous hardness; and portions of it have been found in an o’ssilied state; the only circumstance, in which any free excision oi it is now accounted necessary. A hydrocele lias been known to contain four pints of fluid. ( Voiglcl, Jlandbudt dcr Pract. Anal. Ji. 3, p. 388.) METHODS OF CURING THE HYDROCELE OF THE VAGINAL COAT. A hydrocele is by no means a dangerous com- plaint, though its weight and size arc a disagree- able incumbrance, and the patient is always ob- liged to wear a bag-truss, in order to prevent a painful extension of the spermatic cord. Trouble- some excoriations are also frequently caused bv the friction of the turnor against the inside of the thigh; and when the swelling is very large, it draws over itself the integuments of the pe- nis, which appears buried, as it were in the tu- mor, and its functions are seriously interrupted. Hence, the greater number of patients are very anxious for relief. “ The methods of cure (says Pott) though various, are reducible to two, (viz.) the pallia- tive, or that which pretends only to relieve the disease in present, by discharging the fluid; and the radical, or that which aims at a perfect cure, without leaving a possibility, of relapse. The end of the former is accomplished by merely opening the containing bag in such manner as to let out the water: that of the latter cannot' he obtained, unless the cavity of that hag be abolished, and no receptacle for a future accu- mulation left; fa proposition, on which the ob- servations of Mr. Ramsden and Mr. Wadd, published since Mr. Pott’s time, have thrown a degree of doubt.) One may be practised at all times of the patient’s life, and in almost any state of health and habit: the other lies under some restraints and prohibitions; arising from the cir- cumstances of age, constitution, state of the parts, &c. “ The operation, by which the fluid is let out, is a very simple one. The only circumstances requiring our attention in it, are, the instrument wherewith we would perform it; and the place or part of the tumor, into which such instrument should be passed. “ The two instruments in use, are the common bleeding-lancet, and the trocar. “ The former having the finer point, may pos- sibly pass in rather the easier, (though the dif- ference is hardly perceptible) but is liable to in- conveniences, to which the latter is not. The trocar, by means of its cannula, secures the exit of the whole fluid without a possibility of preven- tion ; the lancet cannot. And therefore it fre- quently happens when this instrument is used, either, that some of the water is left behind; or that some degree of handling and squeezing is required for its expulsion ; or, that the introduc- tion of a probe, or a director, or some such in- strument, becomes necessary for the same pur- pose. The former of these may in some habits be productive of inflammation : the latter pro- longs what would otherwise be a short operation, and multiplies the necessary instruments; which, in every operation in surgery, is wrong. To which it may be added, that if any of the fluid be left in the vaginal coat, or insinuates itself into the cells of the scrotum, the patient will have reason to think the operation imperfect, and to fear, that he shall not reap even the temporary