307 CATARACT. Although it seems to me most prudent, to post- pone the completion of operations with the needle, in the example of blood concealing the pupil, in the first step of couching, and not to renew any attempt before the aqueous humor has recovered its transparency; I am inclined to adopt this sentiment, chiefly because the species of cataract is, in this circumstance, generally unknown to the operator, consequently he must be absolutely in- capable of employing that method of couching, which the peculiarities of the case may demand. Speaking of this case, however, Beer says, “ the surgeon must hasten the completion of extraction, or reclination, though possibly the operation may not always admit of being continued, or, if gone on with, it must be done, as it were blindfold.” (Lehre, <5fc. B. 2. p. 36‘1.) When a milky fluid blends itself with the aqueous humor, and pre- vents the surgeon from seeing the iris and pupil: this event is itself a source of inlormation to him, inasmuch as it gives him a perfect in- sight into the nature of the cataract, which he is treating; and instructs him what method of operating it is his duty to adopt. The surgeon, guided by his anatomical knowledge of the eye, should make the curved point of the needle de- scribe the segment of a circle, from the inner, toward the outer canthus, and in a direction back- ward, as if he had to depress a firm cataract. [Scarpa). Thus he will succeed in lacerating, -is much as is necessary, the anterior layer of the rapsule, upon which, in a great measure, theper- ect success of the operation depends; and, not rnly in the milky, but almost every other species if cataract. In regard to the extravasation of the milky 'uid in the chambers of the aqueous humor, numerous observations, from the most creditable uthorities, prove, that it spontaneously disap- : ears, very soon after the operation, and leaves he pupil of its accustomed transparency. “ In welve cases of a dissolved lens, on which I have perated,” says Latta, “ the dissolution was so omplete, that, on entering the needle into the ipsule of the lens, the whole was mixed with the jueous humor, and all that could be done, was > destroy the capsule as completely hs possible, tat all the milky matter might be evacuated. In n of these cases, vision was almost completely ■stored in four weeks from the operation. Mr. i ott, in treating of this circumstance, viz. the fusion of the fluid contents of the capsule into the ;ueous humor, observes, that so far from being i unlucky one, and preventive of success, it I oves on the contrary, productive of ail the be- fit which can be derived from the most suceess- I depression or extraction, as he has often and :en seen. ''When the cataract is of a soft, or caseous de- ration, the particles of which it is composed, II frequently elude all efforts made with the edle to depress them, and will continue behind pupil in the axis of vision. This has been duced-as one instance that bailies the efficacy couching, and may really seem, to the inex- nenced, an unfortunate circumstance. It often PV’vns in the operation of extraction, that frag- uts of opaque matter are unavoidably over- ’ an^ left behind; yet Richter confesses, t such matter is frequently removed by the ■"rjcnts. Supposing a caseous cataract were not sufficiently broken, and disturbed in the first operation, and that, consequently, the absorbents did not completely remove it, such a state might possibly require a reapplication of the instrument; but this does not generally occur, and is the worst that can.happen. It is quite impossible to determine a priori, what effect will result from the most trivial disturbance of a cataract; its en- tire absorption may, in some instances, follow, while in others, a repetition of the operation be- comes necessary for the restoration of sight. Even where the whole firm lens has re-ascended behind the pupil, as Latta and Hey confirm, the absorbents have superseded the necessity for couching again. The disappearance of the opaque particles of cataracts was, in all times, and in all ages, a fact of such conspicuousness, that, as ap- pears from the authority of Barbette and others, it was recorded, even previous to the discovery of the system of lymphatic vessels in the body. Indeed the modern observations of Scarpa and others, so strongly corroborate the account which I have given, of the vigorous action of the absorbents, in the two chambers of the aqueous humor; and, particularly, in the anterior one, that, from the moment the case is discovered to be a soft, or caseous cataract, it seems quite unnecessary to make any further attempt to depress it into the vitreous humor. Mr. Pott sometimes, in this circumstance, made no attempt of this kind, but contented himself with a free laceration of the cap- sule, and, after turning the needle round and round, between his finger and thumb, within the body of the crystalline, left all the parts in their natural situation, where he hardly ever knew them fail of dissolving so entirely, as not to leave the smallest vestige of a cataract. This eminent surgeon even practised occasionally what Beer sanctions, and Scarpa so strongly recommends at this day; for he sometimes pushed the firm part of such cataracts through the pupil into the anterior chamber, where it always disappeared, without producing the least inconvenience : we must, at the same time add, that he thought this method wrong, not on account of its inefficacv, but an apprehension that it would be apt to pro- duce an irregularity of the pupil, one of the worst ineonveniencies attending the operation of ex- traction. But the deformity of the pupil, after extraction, seemsto proceed either from an actual laceration of the iris, or a forcible distention of the pupil, by the passage of large cataracts through- it, a kind of cause that would not be present in pushing the broken portions of a ca- seous lens into the anterior chamber. Hence, it does not seem warrantable to reject this very efficacious plan of treatment. It is well deserving ofnotice, thatMr. Hey,who has several times seen the whole opaque nucleus and very frequently small opaque portions fall into the anterior chamber, makes this remark: “Indeed, if the cataract could, in all cases, be brought into the anterior chamber of the eye, without injury to the iris, it would be the best methoit of peijvrming the ope- ration. ’’ What the same author also observes in the subsequent part of his work, is strikingly cor- roborative of the efficacy of Scarpa’s practice. The practice of the Italian professor consists, in lacerating the anterior portion of the crystalline capsule, to the extent of the diameter of the pu- pil, in a modcrntelv dilated state ; in breaking the X 2