G41 IIERNIA. the sac; three-fourths of it were surrounded by the obturator ligament; and the fundus of the sac lav beneath the pectineus and adductor brevis muscles. The obturator nerve and artery were situated behind the neck of the sac, a little to- wards its inner side. This species of hernia can onlv form an outward tumor, when very large. Garengeot, however, met with an instance, in which there was not only a swelling, but, one attended with symptoms of strangulation : he re- duced the hernia, which went up with a guggling noise; the symptoms were stopped, and stools soon followed. The hernia of the foramen ovale, when re- ducible, must be kept up with a suitable truss; and if it were strangulated, and not capable of relief from the usual means, an operation would be re- quisite, though attended with difficulties. The division of the obturator ligament and mouth of the sac should be made inwards, to avoid the obturator artery. If this vessel, however, were to arise in common with the epigastric artery, it would be exposed to injury by following this plan. (See Garengeot in Man. dc VAcad, dc Chir. T. 1 ; A. Cooper on Crural Hernia, <|-c. p. TO; and First Lines of Surgery, Vol. 2, p. SO, c$v.) Cystocele.—As Mr. Pott observes, “ The urinary bladder is also liable -to' be thrust forth from its proper situation, either through the opening in the oblique muscle, like the inguinal hernia, or under Poupart’s ligament, in the same manner as the femoral. “ This is not a very frequent species of hernia, but does happen, and has as plain and determined a character, as any other. “ It has been mentioned by Bartholin, T. Born. Sala, Platerus, Bonetus, Ruysch, Petit, Mery, Verdier, &c. In one of the histories given by the latter, the urachus, and impervious umbilical artery on the left'side, were drawn through the tendon into the scrotum, with the bladder ; in another he found four calculi. “ Ruysch gives an account of one complicated with a mortified bubonocele. Petit says, he felt several calculi in one, which were afterwards dis- charged through the urethra. (See also J. G. F. John de insolitd Calculi Ingentis per Scro- tum e,vela.none. Wittenberg. 1750.) “ Bartholin speaks of T. Dorn. Sala as the first discoverer of the disease, and quotes a case from him, in which the patient had all the sym- ptoms of a stone in his bladder ; the stone could never be felt by the sound, but was found in the bladder (which had passed into the groin) after death. “ As the bladder is only covered in part by the peritonaeum, and must insinuate itself between that membrane and the oblique muscle, in order to pass the opening in the tendon, it is plain that the hernia cystica can have no sac, and that, when complicated with a bubonocele, that por- tion of the bladder which forms the cystic hernia “Uist lie between the intestinal hernia and the spermatic chord, that is, the intestinal hernia n,|ist be anterior to the cystic. ‘ A cystic hernia may, indeed, be the cause an intestinal one; for when so much of the > adder has passed the ring, as to drag in the upper and hinder part of it, the peritonaeum which coveis that part must follow, and by that means a sac be formed for the reception of a portion of gut or caul. Hence the different situation of the two hernia; in the same subject. “ While recent, this kind of hernia is easily reducible, and may, like the others, be kept within by a proper bandage; but when it is of any date, or has arrived to any considerable size, the urine cannot be discharged, without lifting up, and compressing the scrotum; the outer surface of the bladder is now become adherent to the cellular membrane, and the patient must be contented with a suspensory bag. “ In case of complication with a bubonocele, if the operation becomes necessary, great care must be taken not to open the bladder instead of the sac, to which it will always be found to be posterior. And it may also sometimes by the inattentive be mistaken for a hydrocele, and by- being treated as such, may be the occasion of great or even fatal mischief.” (Vol. 2.) The cystocele is always easily distinguishable by the regular diminution of the swelling, when- ever the patient makes water. Verdier and Sharp have accurately described the cystocele. Pott has offered two cases, which fell under his observation; Vol. 3. Pipelet le Jeune mentions a cystic hernia in perinaeo, and several cases of its occurrence in the female; Acad, de Chir. T. 4. Pott cut into one cysto- cele, by mistake. Mention is made (Edinb. Surg. Journ. Vol■ 4, p. 512.) of a cystic hernia, which protruded between the origins of the leva- tor ani, and obturator internus muscles : the tu- mor made its appearance in the pudendum of an old woman. Much additional information, respecting the cystocele, and its various forms, is contained in the second volume of the First Lines of Surgery, p. 4f), fyc., accompanied with references to all the most interesting writers on the subject. An instance of protrusion of the bladder through a wound, caused by a bullock’s horn, is recorded by Larrey. (Mem. dc Chir. Mil. T. 4, p. 289.) Ischiatie Hernia.—This disease is very rare. A case, however, which was strangulated, and undiscovered till after death, is related in Mr. A. Cooper’s second part of his work on hernia. It was communicated by Dr. Jones, so celebrated for his book on hemorrhage. The disease hap- pened in a young man, aged 27. On opening the abdomen, the ileum was found to have de- scended on the right side of the rectum into the pelvis, and a fold of it was protruded into a small sac, which passed out of the pelvis at the ischia- tic notch. The intestine was adherent to the sac at two points ; the strangulated part, and about three inches on each side, were very black. The intestines towards the stomach were very much distended with air, and, here and there, had a livid spot on them. A dark spot was even found on the stomach itself just above the pylorus. The colon was exceedingly contracted, as far as its sigmoid flexure. A small orifice was found in the side of. the pelvis, in front of, but a little above, the sciatic nerve, and on the forepart of the pyriformis muscle. The sac lay under the glutceus maximus muscle, and its orifice was be- fore the internal iliac artery, below the obturator artery, but above the vein. Mr. A. Cooper re- marks, that a reducible case might be kept up with a spring truss, and, that if an operation T T