258 OPERATION. CAESAREAN appendix by the celebrated Bauhin. Even then, the practice of the Caesurean Operation on the living mother had its defenders. Bauhin relates that, in the year 1500, a sow-gelder performed the Caesarean Operation on his wife, tamfelic.ilcr, nt ci i postea gemeUos ct qnatuor ml hue infantes enbca fuerit. This is said to be the first instance, in which the operation was ever done on the living mother with success, Many other cases were afterwards collected, and published. The possibility of operating successfully on the living mother, was proved with great perspi- cuity and accuracy, by Simon, in the Memoir es tie l'Acad, de Cldrurgie, T. 1, 4to. Here we arc presented with a collection of sixty-four Caesa- rean Operations, more than a half of which had been done on thirteen women. Some of these had undergone the operation once, or twice; others five or six times. There was one woman in particular, who had undergone it seven times, and always with success. This seems to prove, notwithstanding all assertions to the contrary, that the operation for the most part succeeds. But, if the life of the mother should not invari- ably be preserved, the Caesarean Operation ought not to be rejected on thisaccount: it ought always to be done, when relief cannot be obtained by other means ; just as amputation and lithotomy are practised, though they are not constantly fol- lowed by success. Would any thing be more cruel, than to abandon a mother and her child, and leave them to perish, while there is any hope of saving them botli ? It is true, that when a pregnant woman dies of any inward disorder, and not from the pains, and efforts of labour, the foetus is sometimes still alive in the uterus ; but, in cases of death, after difficult labours, and the great efforts, made by the uterus to overcome the obstacles to parturition, the foetus is ge- nerally dead ; and the operation therefore is less likely to be availing. (See BertrandiTraite des Operations de Chirurgie, chap. 5.) It is the opinion of the best writers upon this subject, that whenever a woman dies, at all ad- vanced in pregnancy, the performance of the Caesarean Operation is highly proper. The pro- priety of this practice, in such circumstances, was known to the ancient Romans ; for, by a decree of Numa Pompilius, no woman, who died preg- nant, was suffered to be buried, ere her body had been opened, with the view of preserving the in- fant for the use of the state. (Sprengel Gescliichtc der Cldr. Th. 1, p. 371.) Experience has proved, that when the foetus has not attained the period, at which parturition commonly happens, it will sometimes survive the operation a considerable time, and that, when it is full grown, its life may be most happily preserved. Although instances are cited, in which the foetus in utero has been found alive upwards of four and twenty hours after the death of the mother, little stress should be laid on such prodigies. The operation ought to be done without any delay. Even then, we are not certain of saving the infant’s life. In the treater number of instances, the foetus perishes, at the same time with the mother, and from the same causes. The cases, which are recorded, of the foetus being extracted alive, after the death of the mother, are numerous: I shall here only refer to three, two of which rest on the unim- peachable authority of Flajani, who was himself the operator. (Colleziove di Osservazimii, Ac. di I Chintrgiii, T. 3, /». 144—146.) In one of these I instances, the operation was done on a woman, I killed by violence, in the ninth month of preg- I nancy: the child lived six hours; in the other, I a foetus was extracted from a woman who had I died of typhus fever, in the seventh month, and | though the operation was not done till she had I been dead about an hour, the child was taken out I alive, and continued to live full ten minutes. A I living child was also taken out of its mother by I Vesling, after her death from typhus. (ITie/sd>. [ Ohs. Med. Episagvi. No. 74, p. 47 : Sprengel I Geschichtc der Cldr. Th. 1, p. 374 ) With respect I to the statements of Cangiamila, a Sicilian prac- I litioner, I join Sprengel in considering them as I incredible exaggerations ; five instances are given, J in which the fcctus was taken out of the mother 11 from fifteen to twenty-four hours after her death, J and yet it continued to live. Cangiamila savs, I that at Syracuse, in the course of eighteen vears, I the operation had been practised twenty times J under the same circumstances ; that at Girgenti, I thirteen children were saved out of twenty-two J women, who had died pregnant; and that, in 1 twenty-four years, at Montereali, twenty-one I children were preserved in the same manner. I ( Fmbryalopia Sacra. Genet. 1763. fot.) As Spren- I gel remarks, one might almost suppose, from this [I account, that in Sicily pregnancy was generally -I fatal. If the mother should happen to die in la- j hour, and the neck of the uterus were sufficiently' I dilated, or disposed to be so, an attempt should I be made to accomplish delivery in the ordinarv I way; for, examples have occurred, in which, J women, supposed to be dead in this circumstance, 0 were in reality alive. Hence, we find, that the 1 senate of Venice in ] 608 enacted a law, byr which J practitioners were liable to punishment, in case j-l they neglected to operate with as much caution I on a pregnant woman, supposed to be dead, as I on the living subject; and rules to be observed h were again issued by the same government, in j[J 1720. (Scb. Melli La Commare levatrice, p. 108, : j 4to. Venez. 1721 ; Perscnie Diss. sopra VOperaz. I Cesar, p. 15, 8vo. Venez. 1778.) A law to the j] same effect was likewise made in 1749, by the H king of Sicily', who decreed the punishment of || death to those medical men, who omitted to per- form the Caesarean Operation on such women as died in the advanced stages of pregnancy. In j] the Journal de Savans de Janvier, 1749, thefol- |j lowing case, confirming the propriety of such li caution, was inserted by Rigaudeaux, surgeon to H the Military Hospital at Douayr. This practi- ji tioner, having been sent for to a woman, to I whose residence he was unable to proceed, till j two hours after her apparent death, he had the t sheet, with which she was covered, removed, and perceiving that the body' retained its suppleness < and warmth, he tried whether the foetus could not be extracted in the ordinary' way, which was easily effected as soon as the feet were got hold of. The first endeavours to save the child, were very unpromising; but, aftei a few hours, they had the desired effect. As the won*m continued in the same state, five hours aftenvauls, Riga"* deaus recommended that she might not be bu- ried^ efore her limbs were quite cold and stiff He afterwards had the satisfaction to learn, that she was also restored to life. This remarkable