11^0 WOUNDS. cupping glass might be employed, but, probably, no mode of suction would succeed in extracting the whole of the poison. The most certain method of removing the virus consists in the excision of the bitten part. This operation, however, would hardly be proper, unless done immediately after the injury, before much inflammation had come on. It is likewise a practice, to which many patients would not assent, and even some surgeons may deem the proceeding too severe, in relation to the bite of the viper of this country. The bite might also be inconveniently situated for the excision of the parts. Another plan, more commonly preferred, is that of destroying the envenomed part with caustic, or the actual cautery. When this is done in time, the poison is prevented from ex- tending its irritation over the nervous system, through the medium of which all the worst sym- ptoms are usually excited. The caustic, and cautery, may also have the effect of chemically destroying the venom itself, while they must tend to hinder its passage into the circulation, inasmuch as they destroy the neighbouring ab- sorbent vessels'. The caustic, which Fontana preferred, was potassa. But, as Boyer sensibly remarks, every caustic, of equal strength, must infallibly have the same effect, as its mode of operating is that of destroying the point of irri- tation, viz. the seat of the venom. In France, liquid caustics are preferred, the fluid muriate of antimony, the liquor ammonias, or the sul- phuric, or nitric acid, because their action is quicker, and they more certainly penetrate to the bottom of the wound. (Trailt des Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 429.) Either of these liquids maybe applied by means of a slender pointed bit of wood, which is to be dipped in it, and then in- troduced into the punctures, made by the fangs of the reptile. The piece of wood should be withdrawn, wet once more, and applied again. If a drop of the caustic can be inserted, so much the better. When the bite is very narrow and deep, the caustic cannot well be introduced, be- fore the mouth of the wound is somewhat en- larged with a lancet. A little bit of lint may then be wet in one of the above fluids, and be pressed deeply into the wound. After tiie caustic has produced an eschar, the best application is an emollient poultice. It is not, however, every bite of a viper, that requires local treatment, even of this degree of severity. As Foyer observes, when the wound is superficial, the viper benumbed with cold ; its poison considerably exhausted by its having pre- viously bitten other animals; the swelling incon- siderable ; and the patient neither affected with prostration of strength, nor pain about the prae- cordia; a few drops of ammonia may be intro- duced into the wound, and a small compress wet with the same fluid applied. Formerly, olive oil was considered, in England, one of the best applications for the bites of snakes, and its vir- tues were afterwards extolled in France by Pou- teau; but, says Boyer, it possesses no specific efficacy, as the experiments of Hunaud and Geoffroi have decidedly proved. (Traitc des Mala dim Chir. T. 1, p. 431.) With re.sneet. to the rreneral treatment, if we opinion, when the patient was much jaundiced the favourite medicines are cordials, ammonia, and arsenic. The ancients employed theriaca, Mithridates, salt, and the carbonate of ammonia. Of all stimulants, however, the liquor ammoniac is that which now obtains tlie greatest conn-, dence; or, else, the can tic luce, which only dif-» fers from the fluid ammonia, in containing a small quantity of the oleum succinatum. In France, this remedy is even at the present time regarded, as having the best claim to the title of a specific for the bite of a viper. (Buyer, op. tit.) In France, Bernard de Jussieu first tried am- monia in the year 1747 (see Hist, de VAcad, dcs Sciences, 1747); since which time it has been extensively employed for the cure of the bites of vipers, both as an internal and external remedy. It had, however, been highly praised by Dr. Mead, at a much earlier period. A few drops of the remedy are to be exhibited every two hours; but, as it is very powerful, it must always be diluted with tea, or some other drink, or the mistura camphorre. The dose, how- ever, must depend upon the age and constitution of the patient, and the intensity of the sym- ptoms. Four or five drops suffice for a person of weak, delicate, irritable habit; but twelve or fifteen may be given to stronger subjects, when the symptoms are violent. With ammonia, some practitioners order wine. In St. George’s Hospital, the man, who was bit by the rattle-snake, kept for exhibition, took aperient medicines, the liquor ammonias, aether, the spiritus ammoniae, comp, opium, and other stimulants; but without any apparent be- nefit. The disease followed that course, which Sir E. Flome has described as usual when the shock on the system is not directly fatal, and the mischief in the arm ultimately produced the man’s death. (See Phil. Trans. 1S10.) From the following passage, in relation to the bites of snakes in general, it seems that Sir Everard Home, in IfflO, had no confidence in any medicines, which had then been duly tried. “ The violent effects, which the poison produces on the part bitten, and on the general system, and the shortness of their duration, where they do not terminate fatally, (says lie,) have frequently induced the belief, that the recover}? depended on the medicines employed; and, in the East Indies, eau de luce is considered as a specific. There does not appear to be any foundation for such an opinion; for when the poisofi is so intense, as to give a sufficient shock to the con- stitution, death immediately takes place, and where the poison produces a local injury of suf- ficient extent, the patient also dies, while all slighter cases recover. The effect of the poison on the constitution is so immediate, arid the ir- ritability of the stomach so great, that there is no opportunity of exhibiting medicines, till it lias fairly taken place, and then there is little chance of beneficial effects being produced. ’— (Sir E. Home, in Phil. Trans. 1S10.) Fontana also bad little faith in reputed anti- dotes; but it is to be noticed, that his observa- tions refer only to the bites of vipers. “ In no country (says he) through which I passed, cotdd I ever find any two people or persons, bit by the viper, either in the mountains or valleys,