ANEURISM. 173 observed the same change in the arteries of en- larged spleens, testes, &c. so that I should sup- pose it will be found to be universally true in fact, and the reason of it in theory seems evident.” (See Med. Ohs. and Inq. V. 2.) In thin subjects, the median basilic vein is so close to the brachial artery, the track of which it crosses at a very acute angle, that it is almost impossible to open it at this point, without risk of wounding the artery at the same time. The bend of the arm, indeed, is the very situation in which this disease is usually noticed. It is easy to conceive, however, that a venous aneu- rism may happen wherever an artery of a certain diameter lies immediately under a large vein. Thus, Baron Larrey informs us, that his uncle, surgeon to tiie hospital at Toulouse, saw a case of aneurismal varix, which had been occasioned by a wound of the popliteal vein and artery, and that a history of the disease, accompanied with the pathological preparation, was sent to the former royal academy of surgery at Paris. “ The varicose swelling, which was as large as two fists, occupied the whole of the ham in a middle-aged man, who some years previously had been wounded with a sword in that part of the limb. At a consultation, amputation was deemed neces- sary, and was performed with success. At the bottom of the varicose pouch, the communica- tion between the popliteal vein and artery was observed. The sac itself was evidently com- posed of the vein, the parts of which, adjacent to the varicose swelling, were dilated, especially the lower continuation of the vessel. The po- pliteal nerve was rendered flat, like a piece of tape, and adherent to the outside of the cyst. (See Mem. ilc L'hir. M'1. /'. 4, p. 3-10. Boyer, 'l'mite des Mulndies Cliiriirzicales, <SV. T. 2, p. 177.) Two cases are likewise recorded by Mr. Hodgson. In one the disease was caused in the thigh, about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, by the point of a heated iron rod, which had passed through the femoral arterv and vein. In the other example, the aneurismal varix was situated in the ham, and was the con- sequence ol a wound in that part with a pistol ball. (Treatise on the Disease of Arlerie*, p. 4.c>8.) Larrey records one example of aneu- rismal varix situated under the clavicle. P. Cadrieux was wounded with a sabre in a duel, on the 20th of November, 1811 : part of the attachment of the sterno-mastoid muscle was divided, the anterior scalenus, the subclavian artery and vein at a very deep point, and pro- bably also a portion of the brachial plexus. A most violent hemorrhage took place, followed by syncope. Pressure was applied to the wound, and the patient conveyed to the hospital at Gros- Caillnu. I’he external wound, which was small, did not bleed at all the following morning; but the clavicle was quite concealed by a large tumor, which throbbed with the arteries, particularly at its lower part. A peculiar noise, like that of the passage oi a fluid through tortuous metallic tubes, could also be felt more deeply, in the direction ot the axillary vein. The arm was quite cold, insensible, motionless, and without any pulse, even in the axillary artery itself. On the 22d, e btinor was not larger, but its throbbings .\r° Wronger; the jugular vein on the same M 0 wtls considerably dilated ; and the pulsation of the carotid, and of the arteries of the opposite arm, had augmented. A vein in the right arm was opened, and compresses dipped in camphor- ated vinegar, muriate of ammonia, and ice, applied to the swelling. It would be superfluous here to detail the diet, bleedings, and other parts of the treatment. On the 8th day, the outer wound was quite healed. On the 10th, the veins of the limb were observed to be swelled, and sensibility and warmth were returning in it; though no pulse could yet be felt. The tumor was much smaller, and restricted to a circumscribed place behind the great pectoral muscle; but, the hiss- ing sound was still plainer. By degrees, the muscles of the arm and fore-ami regained their power of motion. The hand, however, con- tinued useless, and affected with pricking pains. On the 20th day, the tumor was quite gone; but the hissing sound was unaltered, and the throbbings were still evident in the veins of the neck and arm. The arm was not at all emaciated. On the 55th day, a pulse at the wrist could be slightly felt; the hissing sound had become less distinct; the veins were less turgid; and their throbbing diminished. A second instance of aneurismal varix, or rather perhaps of a varix, of all the veins of the arm, caused by a sword wound of the axilla, is also recorded by Larrey. He mentions, how- ever, that a pulsation was observable in the most prominent of the enlarged vessels. (See Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 4, p. 341, cjjr.) Dr. Dorsey, of Philadelphia, has published a case of aneurismal varix, which is in several respects interesting. A patient was wounded in the leg with buck-shot; and, after tire cure of the injury, an aneurismal varix was noticed just below the knee; and, in a little time, the super- ficial veins of the limb became dilated, and the hissing noise, characterising this species of aneu- rism, could be plainly distinguished. The patient was seen by Dr. Dorsey, twelve years after the ac- cident ; the veins were then considerably distended from the toes up to the groin, all about which latter part pain was constantly experienced, and some ulcers situated on the foot and ankle could not be healed by any of the remedies, which were tried. The patient was under the care of Dr. Physick and Wistar. The enormous dis- tention of the vessels of the leg, and the uncer- tainty of finding out the communication between the artery and vein, led these gentlemen to tie the first of these vessels in the middle of the thigh. Gangrene soon ensued, and in this state, the patient was further weakened by an unex- pected hemorrhage from one of the distended veins; and though the vessel was secured with a ligature, the bleeding recurred, the patient became more and more enfeebled, and at length expired. . When the limb was examined after death, the whole of the trunk of the femoral artery was found prelernaturally dilated; while all the veins of the limb were considerably distended; a bougie could readily be passed from the popli- teal into the posterior tibial artery, which par- ticipated in the dilntation, and from this last artery, the instrument could be passed into the vein, through a cyst, situated on the inside id the leg below the knee. (Sec Dorsep's idemrnts of Siirgcri/, Vat. 2, 210, Philadelphia, Iff Id-) Professor Scarpa, Dr. Hunter, Mr. B. Bell,