078 . SIGHT. peared to him the same. Yellow and blue lie could discern very well. With regard to dark- red and dark-blue, he frequently made mistakes. In other respects, his vision was sound and acute. The father of this patient was afflicted with the same infirmity. The mother and one sister were free from it. Another sister and two of her children had it. The patient himself had two children, who did not labour under the disorder. (See P7iil. Trans. Vol. 68, Part 2.) Another subject, whose eyes were in other respects healthy, and whose eye-sight was sharp, could not distinguish a dark-green from a dark-red. An interesting example of this curious imper- fection of vision has lately been published by Dr. Nieholl, of Cowbridge. (See Med. Chir. Tram. Vol. 7, p. 477, $c.) The subject was a healthy boy, eleven years of age, whose eyes were grey, with a yellow tinge surrounding the pupil. He never called any colour green. Dark bottled green he called brown. He could distinguish light yellow; but darker yellows and light browns, he confounded with red. Dark brown he mistook for black. Pale green he called light red; com- mon green he termed red. Light red and pink he called light blue. Red he called by its proper name. He could distinguish blue, both dark and light. On the mother’s side, the boy had some relations, whose sight was similarly affected. An interesting chapter on what is termed coloured •vision, may be read in a modern valuable work, to which I have great pleasure in referring. (See War drop's Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye. Vol. 2, p. 196, 8vo. Lond. 1818.) Sometimes, objects appear to the eye to be of a different colour from what they really are, not because there is any thing wrong in the eye itself, but in consequence of the unclear and coloured light by which the object is illuminated. Thus, for instance, a bad tallow candle, which emits a yellow flame, makes every thing appear yellow. When brandy is burning, all objects appear blue. In short, it is only by the light of the sun, that any object can be seen in its clear natural hue. In certain cases, the infirmity is owing to the transparent parts and humours of the eye, which do not happen to be of a proper colour. Thus, persons having the jaundice in a high degree, see all things yellow, because the transparent parts of the eye are of that colour. When, -.in consequence of external violence applied to the eye, blood is effused, and the aqueous humour rendered red by this fluid, all objects seem to the patient to be red; and, white, when the aqueous humour has been made of this colour by the couching of a milky cataract. Sometimes this defect in vision is ascribable to the duration of an impression. When one has surveyed a bright coloured object a long while, as for example a bright red or yellow wall, on which the sun shines, that colour will often remain a good while before the eyes, although one may not be looking any more at an object of this hue. There are some eyes, which seem much disposed to retain the impression of objects, which are not very bright coloured ; but, such a disposition always betrays great weakness and irritability of those organs. The most frequent cause of this defect them, which alone makes objects appear of one colour. The seat of such irritation, according to Richter, is also most commonly in the ab- dominal viscera, and the case demands evacua- tions. tonics, and anodyne medicines. But, the disorder may also originate from other causes. The operation of bright-coloured or shining ob- jects upon the eye, sometimes has. for a certain time afterwards, the effect of making objects of diverse colours appear to be moving before the eyes. In extreme terror, or fright, things may also seem to have a different colour from their real one. The same often happens in fevers at- tended with delirium. A sudden exposure of the head to cold, at a period, when it was perspiring much, in one instance, caused many coloured ap- | pcarances before the eyes; but, the disorder sub- ? I, sided in a couple of days. (Richter, Anfangsgr. dcr Wundurzn. B. 3, p. 523.) Also a healthy eye sees a distant object with i j- uncertainty, and error, in a room, or space, the extent, length, and breadth, of which are un- j known, when the size of the object itself is un- ascertained, and when there are few or no other objects intervening at a smaller distance between the eye and the thing looked at. The more nu- merous the objects are between the eye and the principal thing looked at, the more distant it is made to appear; the fewer they are, the nearer it seems to be. In a country covered with snow', and upon the sea, very distant objects appear to , be close. The smaller an object is to the eye, in I - relation to its known magnitude, the further off j ; it seems. The errors, which the eye makes, in j regard to the distance of objects, also tend to de- ; ceive. But, there are certain cases, in which the ( eye is almost entirely incapable of judging of the , distance of objects. The first is, when the ob- : i ject, of which we v'ish to ascertain the distance, is looked at with only one eye. Hence all one- eyed persons, and persons affected with strabis- mus, are unable to judge well of the real distance of objects. However they are only so for a cer- tain time; and, by practice, they gradually ac- quire the faculty. Even when two eyes are em- ployed, it requires some exercise, in order to en- j able them to judge of the right distance of ob- i jects. Persons, born blind, but who have their sight restored in both eyes by the operation for the cataract, are a long while incapable of judg- ing of distances, and only obtain this power very gradually. Lastly, this infirmity is sometimes , owing to an irritation affecting the optic nerves, - , whereby their sensibility is so altered, that di- : . stant objects make the impression upon them of 1 j near ones. In this circumstance, all objects ap- pear to the patient closer than they really are. r , This is the only case, which admits of being treated as a disease. The irritation, producing the disorder, is mostly seated in the abdominal viscera, and requires evacuations and such me- dicines as invigorate the nerves. A suppression of the perspiration is alleged to be sometimes a cause. (Richter, Anfangsgr. dcr Wundarzn• B. 3, p. 525.) A sound eye likewise does not always judge with accuracy and uniformity of the magnitude of objects. This may arise from three causes. In order to judge rightly of the size of any thing,