110 ANEURISM. have only a narrow communication with the arterial tube, or which are filled with laminated coagula, the idea, says he, is quite inadmissible: the aneurism is rather shaken, as it were, like other different swellings in the vicinity of an ar- tery, by the stroke of the heart occasioning a stretching of the whole arterial system, and at the same time communicating an'impulse to the co- lumn of blood. (Kreprig, Germ. Tr. if Mr. Hadg- sim’s Work, p. 143.) Here, however, lam by no means disposed to coincide with this distinguished physician, whose sentiments appear to me to be refuted by the fact, that, whenever any change happens, calculated to lessen, or entirely stop the influx of blood into the sac, the pulsation either diminishes, or ceases in proportion. Thus, when Kreysig adverted to the pulsation of aneurisms, in which much coagulated blood was deposited, he might at the same time have mentioned the effect, which such deposition has in weakening the pulsation, the layers of coagulated blood within the tumor being in the natural mode of cure, as Mr. Hodgson has correctly explained, “ the means by which the force of the circulation is removed from the sac, and the fatal termina- tion of the disease by rupture is prevented.” (On Diseases of Art. and Veins, p. 12ti.) In propor- tion as the aneurismal sac grows larger, the com- munication of blood into the artery beyond the tumor is lessened. Hence, in this state, the pulse, below the swelling, becomes weak and small, and the limb frequently cold, and CEdema- tous. On dissection, the lower continuation of the artery is found preternaturally small and con- tracted. The pressure of the tumor on the ad- jacent parts may also produce a variety of symp- toms, ulceration, caries, 6cc. Sometimes, (says ■Richter) an accidental contusion, or concussion, may detach a piece of coagulum from the inner surface of the cyst, and the circulation through the sac be obstructed by it: nay, he asserts, that the coagulum may possibly be impelled quite into the artery below, so as to induce important changes. The danger of an aneurism arrives when it is on the point of bursting, by which oc- currence the patient usually bleeds to death, and this sometimes in a few seconds. The fatal event may generally be foreseen, as the part about to give way becomes particularly tense, elevated, thin, soft, and of a dark purple colour. ( Richter’s Aufungsgr. Band. 1.) A large axillary aneurism, which burst in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital some years ago, did not burst by ulceration, but, by the detachment of a small slough from a conical, discoloured part of the tumor; and soon after this case fell under my observation, I had an opportunity of seeing the process, by which an inguinal aneurism burst: at a certain point, the tumor became more coni- cal, thin, and inflamed, and here a slough, about an inch in width, was formed. On the dead part becoming loose, a profuse bleeding began, which was stopped for a short time bv pressure, but soon returned with increasing violence, and put an end to the patient’s misery. We are then to con- clude, that external aneurisms do not burst by ulceration, but, by the formation and detachment of a slough. I believe this is a fact, which was first particularly pointed out in the early editions .of mv work, and it gives me pleasure to find, that it is a statement which entirely coincides with that subsequently made by several writers of emr« I nence, especially Mr. A Burns (On Diseases «JI tlic Heart, p. 225,) and Boyer (Truitt det Mu* I ladies Chirurgicales, T. 2, p. OH.) As far as my information extends, Mr. A Burns first explained the very different mode o| U rupture which happens in internal aneurisms theiie he observed generally burst by actual laee-J ration, and not by sphacelation of the cyst. (OJl Diseases uj the Heart, p. c2‘25.) But a still moral particular account of the process, by which ex- | ternal and internal aneurisms burst, is deliveretlj by Mr. Hodgson. When the sac points exter-iji nally, (says this gentleman) it rarely or nevc-qi I bursts by laceration, but the extreme distention! causes the integuments and investing parts toi slough, and upon the separation of the eschar, the blood issues from the tumor. A similaril process takes place, when the disease extends into* a cavity, which is lined by a mucous membrane,! as the oesophagus, intestines, bladder, See. In; such cases, the cavity of the aneurism is generally! exposed by the separation of a slough, which has formed upon its most distended part, and not by laceration. But, when the sac projects into a | cavity lined by a serous membrane, as the pleura, the peritoneum, the pericardium, &c. sloughing | of these membranes does not take place, but, the ) parietes of the tumor having become extremely i thin in consequence of distention, at length burst I by a crack, or fissure, through which the blood is discharged. (On the Diseases of Arteries, Sec. p. 85.) When the aneurism is of considerable size, the collateral arteries, which originate above the | swelling, are manifestly" enlarged. Boyer informs us, that, in dissecting the lower extremity of a patient, on whom Desault had operated eight months previously for a popliteal aneurism, lie found in the substance of the great sciatic nerve j an artery, whose diameter was equal to that of I the radial at the wrist. This vessel had its origin I from the ischiatic artery; and descended to the !i back part of the knee, where it anastomosed with the upper articular arteries. Boyer had also no- ticed in the same subject before the operation, that one of the branches of the upper internal articular artery was so much enlarged, that its pulsation could be plainly felt on the internal condyle of the thigh-bone. (Op. cif. p. 93.) It is such enlargement of the collateral arteries above the disease, which insures to the limb below the '■ tumor an adequate supply of blood when the ob- struction to its passage through the diseased ar- tery becomes considerable, or when this vessel has been rendered totally impervious by a surgical operation performed for the cure of the complaint. In the advanced stage of an aneurism, the : skin is found extremely thin, and confounded, as it were, with the aneurismal sac. The cavities ) of the cellular substance near the disease arc j either filled with serum, or totally obliterated by adhesion. The adjacent muscles, whether they lie over the aneurism, or to one side of it, am stretched, displaced, dwindled, and sometimes confounded with other parts. It is the same with the large nervous cords situated at the cir- cumference of the tumor: they are pushed out of their natural situation, diminished in size, sometimes adherent to the outside of the sac, and so changed as scarcely to admit of being