LITHOTOMY. 775 outside of one half obliquely, according to the direction and whole length of the urethra within it, and finished the internal incision, by dividing the membranous portion of the urethra, on the convex part of his stall. A sufficient opening being made, Cheselden used to rise from his chair, his finger still re- maining in the wound. Next he pot the beak of his gorget in the groove of the staff and then thrust it into the bladder. The staff was now withdrawn, and, while he held the gorget with his left hand, he introduced the forceps, with the llat side uppermost, with great caution along the concavity of the gorget. When the forceps was in the bladder, he withdrew the gorget, and taking hold of the two handles of the forceps with both his hands, he searched gently for the stone, while the blades were still kept shut. As soon as the calculus was felt, the forceps was opened, and an attempt made to get the lower blade under the stone, in order that it might be more conveniently laid hold of. This being done, the stone was ex- tracted with a very slow motion, in order to give the parts time to dilate, and the forceps was gently turned in all directions. When the stone was very small, and did not lie well in the forceps, Cheselden used to with- draw this instrument, and introduce his finger into the bladder, for the purpose of turning the stone, and disengaging it from the folds of the lining of the bladder, in which it was some- times entangled. Then the gorget was passed in again on the upper side of his finger, and turned as soon as the latter was pulled out. Lastly; the forceps was introduced, and the stone ex- tracted. With the view of hindering a soft stone from breaking, during its extraction, Cheselden used to put one or more of his fingers between the branches of his forceps, so as to prevent any greater pressure upon it, than what was just ne- cessary to hold it together. But, when it did break, or there were more calculi than one, he used to extract the single stones, or fragments, one after another, repeating the introduction of his fingers and forceps, as often as there was oc- casion. Cheselden took care not to thrust the forceps so far into the bladder as to bruise or wound its opposite side; and he was equally careful not to pinch any folds of its inner coat. In this way, Cheselden saved SO patients out of 52, whom he cut successively in St. Thomas’s Hospital. {Appendix to the History of the Lateral Operation, by J. Douglas. 1731.) Cheselden, with all the enthusiasm of an in- ventor, believed, that he had discovered an ope- ration, which was not susceptible of improve- ment; yet, he himself changed the manner of his incision not less than three times, in the course of a few years. 1st, He cut into the body of the bladder, behind the prostate, when he imitated Raw. 2dly, He cut another part of the bladder, viz. the neck and the thick substance of the prostate; this is his lateral mode of in- cision. 3dly, He changed a third time, not the essential form of the incision, but, the direction, in which he moved the knife; for, in his first operation, when imitating the supposed operation of Raw and Frire Jacques, he struck his knife into the body of the bladder, betwixt the tuber ischii and the vesiculac seminales, and all his in- vision lay behind the prostate gland. In this se- cond operation, he pushed his knife into the membranous part of the urethra, immediately behind the bulb, and ran it down through the substance of the gland; but his incision stopped at the membranous part, or body, of the bladder. But, in his third operation, after very large ex- ternal incisions, he passed his knife deeply into the great hollow under the tuber ischii, entered it into the body of the bladder immediately be- hind the gland, and, drawing it towards himself, cut through the whole substance of the gland, and even a part of the urethra, “ cutting the same parts the contrary way.” By carrying the fore-finger of the left hand before the knife, in dissecting towards the body of the bladder, he protected the rectum more perfectly, than he could do in running the knife backwards along the groove of the staff; and by striking his knife into the body of the bladder and drawing it to- wards him, through the whole thickness of the gland, he was sure to make an ample wound. (J. Bell's Principles of Surgery, Vol. 2, Part 1, p. 152.) LATERAL OPERATION AS PERFORMED AT THE PRESENT DAY WITH CUTTING GORGETS. The gorget has the same kind of form as one of the instruments used by F. Colot and others in the performance of the apparatus major, and the common opinion, that the conductor of Jdildanus was the first model of it, is not exactly true; but it differs from the instruments employed by these older surgeons in having a cutting edge. Sir Caesar Hawkins thought, that, when its right side was sharpened into a cutting edge, it might be safely pushed into the bladder, guided by the staff, so as to make the true lateral incision, in the left side of the prostate gland, more easily, and with less risk of injuring the adjacent parts, than Cheselden could do with the knife; and surgeons were pleased with a contrivance, which saved them from the responsibility of dissecting parts, with the anatomy of which all were not equally well acquainted. (J. Bell. Allan.) As Scarpa observes: To render the execution of the lateral operation easier to surgeons of less experience, than Cheselden, was the motive, which induced Hawkins to propose his gorget. He thought, that two great advantages would be gained by the use of this instrument; one of executing invariably the lateral incision of Che- sclden; the other, of constantly guarding the patient, through the whole course of the opera- tion, from injury of the rectum, and of the arteria pudica profunda. The utility of the latter object (says Scarpa) cannot be disputed, as it is evident, that the convexity of the director of the instru- ment defends the rectum from injury, and that its cutting edge not being inclined horizontally, towards the tuberosity and ramus of the is- chium, but, turned upwards in the direction of the longitudinal axis of the neck of the urethra, cannot wound the pudic artery. But, with re- spect to the first advantage, or that of executing precisely the lateral incision of Cheselden, it must be admitted, that it does not completely fulfil the intention, which he proposed, not only on account of the cutting edge of his instrument