TREPHINE. 1044 stance in some cases very important to be at- tended to; (See Head, Injuries of;) a largish common scalpel for dividing the scalp, &c.; and some elevators for raising depressed pieces of bone. *1 he common elevator is now generally used by all the best English surgeons; but several others have been proposed, as, for instance, the tripod elevator; and another invented by J. L. Petit, and afterwards improved by M. Louis. Before beginning the description of the opera- tion, I think it highly proper to remind the reader, of what has been so forcibly dwelt upon in the article, Head, Injuries of,—that, gene- rally, the removal of pressure off the brain, which pressure must also actually occasion dan- gerous symptoms, can form the only true and vin- dicable reason for employing the trephine, or saw- ing away any portion of the skull. There are very few exceptions to this remark: it may, indeed, be now and then proper to saw away the bony edges, around some fungous excrescences, which grow from the dura mater, and make their way out- ward, by occasioning an absorption of the part of the skull immediately over them. (See Dura Mater.) It may also be sometimes proper to saw out diseased portions of the skull, though, it must be confessed, that in general their separa- tion should be left to time and nature. In the records of surgery, innumerable facts may be consulted, where the prudent and judici- ous employment of the trepan has effected won- derful cures, and been the only thing by which the patients’ lives could possibly have been saved. The benefit, which the operation brings about, is also sometimes so sudden and astonish- ing, that in no instance does the interposition of the surgical art display itself to greater advan- tage. The immediate restoration of sight by the depression, or extraction of an opaque substance from the eye, is not more beautiful and striking, than the instantaneous communication of the in- tellectual faculties, and of the powers of speech, of feeling, &c. together with voluntary motion, to a person lying in an apparently lifeless state from an injury of the head. The utility of the trepan is occasionally manifested even in this degree. In the valuable essay of Mr. Aber- nethy on injuries of the head, a case may be seen, in which the patient, who had been in a condition almost bereft of animation, rose up and spoke the instant the extravasated blood was removed from the surface of the brain. And amongst the wounded at the battle of Water- loo, there was a soldier of the 44th regiment, whose case is of equal interest. He had been struck by a musket-ballon the right parietal bone, which was exposed, but had no appearance of being fractured. As however the symptoms of compression were urgent, and the patient was in nearly a lifeless state, I conceived it right to apply the trephine to the part on which the vio- lence had acted. I had not sawn long before the external table came away in the hollow of the trephine, leaving the inner table behind, which was not only splintered, but driven at one point more than half an inch into the membranes and substance of the brain. No sooner were the fragments taken out with a pair of forceps, than the man instantly sat up in his bed, looked round, and began to speak with the utmost rationality. It is a most extraordinary fact, that this patient got up and dressed himself the same day, with- out leave from the medical oflicers, and never had a bad symptom afterwards. Immediately the operation was finished, the temporal arteries were opened, and some purgative medicines ex- hibited. In a case of fungus of the dura mater, with diseased bone, mentioned by Schmucker, the trepan was applied eleven times in less than a month, and the operation used to came so little indisposition, that the patient hardly ever re- I jj quired to go to bed afterwards, and, on one oc- casion, actually went to market an hour after its'performance. (IVahrnehrnungen, B. 1, », j j 456.) Let not the young surgeon, however, draw , from these dazzling cases of success an immo- derate solicitude to perform the operation ; for, it should never be undertaken but in the most ;■ pressing circumstances, and when the symptoms unequivocally shew, that a dangerous degree of pressure on the brain exists. I recollect an un- fortunate example, in which the late Mr. Rams- 1 tj den of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital ventured to I L| saw out a portion of the frontal bone for a mere long continued pain in the part: the patient was I b attacked with inflammation of the dura mater, and perished in three or four days. We may |jL therefore conclude, that the operation is not it- j fa self exempt from danger; and it is certain, that Ilk. it ought never to be resolved on without deep Jj| consideration. “ Gravis tamen satis est opera- jjj; tio, ut nunquam, nisi indicationes snficicntes |j| adsint, institui debet” (Callisen Sijst. Chir. IE. Hodicrn. Tom. 1, p. 658.) The trepan, or trephine, is never necessary in ! i, injuries of the head, except for the purpose of re- j lieving the brain from pressure. Such pressure j j. may be caused by a depressed portion of the era- ’ j, nium, or it may be produced by an extravasation i ,, of blood, or the lodgment of matter, betwixt the ■ , . skull and the dura mater. The chief danger of ; . . concussion, when the accident is not directly or ^ t, soon fatal from the disorganization and mischief done to the brain, depends upon the consequent , inflammation of this organ, and therefore can be , little likely to be benefited by the use of the .; trepan. If the operation becomes proper in ,t such a case, it is when an abscess has formed j under the cranium, and when the confined mat- t ter itself creates bad symptoms by its pressure oh j the brain. This state of things, however, can- j not come on till after the inflammation of the j brain and its membranes has prevailed a certain^ time, and it is always accompanied with a de- ^ tachment of the pericranium and a puffy tumor j of the scalp ; or, if there be a wound of the lat- L ( ter part immediately over the abscess, the lips of l > the injury suddenly acquire an unfavourable ap- L . pearance, and lose their vermilion color, 'file pa- \ , tient has also had much preceding febrile disorder, pain and tension over the whole head, redness j y and turgescence of the eyes, and generally more , or less delirium. When the matter is forming! | ; there are usually some rigors, and, as soon as H > is formed, the patient falls into a comatose state, , . and paralytic symptoms shew themselves. Here , the urgency for the prompt application ol the