VERTEBRAE, DISEASE OF. 1171 in a tonic state, by which the knees and ankles acquire a stiffness not very easy to overcome. By means of this stiffness, mixed with a kind of spasm, the legs of the patient are either constantly kept stretched out straight, in which case considerable force is required to bend the knees, or they are, by the action of the stronger muscles, drawn across each other, in • such manner as to require as much to separate tthem. When the leg is in a straight position, ’’the extensor muscles act so powerfully, as to re- quire a considerable degree of force to bend the oints of the knees; and, when they have oeen bent, the legs are immediately, and strongly, drawn up with the heels toward the juttocks. By the rigidity of the ankle joints, oined to the spasmodic action of the gastro- i.memii muscles, the patient’s toes are pointed llownward, in such manner as to render it im- '.ossible for him to put his foot flat to the ground: which makes one of the decisive cha- racteristics of the distemper. The majority of those, who labour under this lisease, are infants, or young children: adults are L jy no means exempt from it; but Mr. Pott lever saw it at an age beyond forty; and Mr. avnton never met with more, than three in- stances, which approached that period of life. On Diseases of the Spine, p. 4.) In one case, however, recited by Mr. Brodie, lie patient was forty-five years old. (On Diseases of Joints, p. 268.) By Pott, Bayn- ou, and several other writers, a belief is enter- tained, that - the disease is most disposed to iappen in scrophulous subjects, in which opi- lion I am also disposed to join. There can also ie no doubt of the fact, stated by Mr. Pott, that . t most frequently happens in weak and delicate children. According to Mr. Pott, if the patient be a hild, the account, most frequently given, is, i hat for some time previous to the incapacity of ising its limbs, it had been observed to be lan- juid, listless, and very soon tired; that it was inwilling to move much, or briskly ; that it had >een observed frequently to trip and stumble, lthough no impediment lay in its way; that fieri it moved hastily, or unguardedly, its legs /ould cross each other involuntarily, by which t - was often and suddenly' thrown down ; that if ; endeavoured to stand still, and upright, un- upported by another person, its knees would otter and bend under it; that it could not, with ny degree of precision or certainty, steadily di- ect either of its feet to any particular point, but, hat in attempting so to do, they would be sud- lenly, and involuntarily, brought across each ither ; that soon after this, it complained of fre- |uent pains and twitchings in its thighs, parti- cularly when in bed, and of an uneasy sensation it the pit of the stomach ; that when it sat on a •hair, or a stool, its legs were almost always bund across each other, and drawn up under the eat; and that in a little time after these parti- nilars had been observed, it totally lost the power >f walking. The same author observes, that if the incurva- ion he of the neck, and to a considerable degree, ■>>' affecting several vertebra?, the child finds it nconvenient and painful to support its own i lead, and is always desirous of laying it on a table or pillow, or any thing to take off’ the weight. If the affection be of the dorsal verte- brae, it is soon attended with loss of appetite, hard dry cough, laborious respiration, quick pulse, and disposition to hectic. Mr. Pott states, that an adult, in a case where no violence has been committed, or received, will tell you, that his first intimation was a sense of weakness in his back-bone, accompanied with what he will call a heavy dull kind of pain, at- tended with such a lassitude as rendered a small degree of exercise fatiguing ; that this was soon followed by an unusual sense of coldness in his thighs, not accountable for from the weather, and a palpable diminution of their sensibility. That, in a little time more, his limbs were frequently convulsed by involuntary twitchings, particularly troublesome in the night; that soon after this, he not only became incapable of walking, but that his power either of retaining or discharging his urine and feces was considerably impaired, and his penis became incapable of erection. The adult also finds all the offices of his di- gestive and respiratory organs much affected, and complains constantly of pain and tightness at his stomach. The true cause of the disease is a morbid state of the spine, and of some of the parts con- nected with it; •which distempered state of parts will, upon careful enquiry, he always found to have preceded the deformity some length of time; in infants, this is the sole cause, and ex- ternal violence has nothing to do with it. “ In the adult (says Mr. Pott), I will not assert, that external mischief is always and totally out of the question; but I will venture to affirm, what is equal, as far as regards the true nature of the case, which is, that although accident and violence may, in some few instances, be allowed to have contributed to its more immediate appearance, yet the part in which it shews itself, must have been previously in a morbid state, and thereby predisposed for the pro- duction of it. J do not by this mean to say, that a violent exertion cannot injure the spine, nor produce a paralytic complaint: that would be to say more than I know; but I will ven- ture to assert, that no degree of violence what- ever is capable of producing such an appearance as I am now speaking of, unless the bodies of the vertebra? were by previous distemper disposed to give way; and that no supposable dislocation, caused by mere violence done to the bones of the back, which bones were, before the receipt of the injury, in a sound state, can possibly be attended with the peculiar symptoms of a curved spine.” For some observations, connected with this point, I refer the reader to C. Bell’s Surgical Observations, Vol. 1. Mr. Brodie agrees with Mr. Pott, and other writers on the fact, that the .actual curvature must be preceded by a disease of the parts, un- accompanied with any visible deformity, and “ cannot take place until the caries has made considerable progress.” In the early stage of the case, therefore, when, as Mr. Brodie justly observes, the diagnosis is of the most importance, no information can be obtained from the appear- ance of the spine itself, the shape of which is yet unchanged; and frequently the symptoms, which 4 F 2 ^