97 AMPUTATION. i injured in the same way, the middle of the deltoid being untouched, and shot-holes behind, and in front of, the articulation. But, if it required any further arguments to prove, that Larrey is wrong in wishing to extend his, or rather Desault’s me- thod, to all cases, I might criticise his assertions about the sloughing of the flap, when it is not cut into two portions, and its preservation by the singular expedient of making a division of it, and, of course, injuring it still more, than it may have been injured underneath by the bullet. The cases, however, which have fallen under my own personal observation, and numerous others on record, furnish an adequate proof, that, excellent as Larrey’s method is for many cases, La Faye’s answers very well in others. Thus, in an ex- ample where a Prussian hussar had had his arm amputated, and a projection of the bone took place, to the extent of three inches, with hospital gangrene commencing in the stump, Klein felt obliged to remove the limb at the shoulder. He operated in La Faye’s manner; the separation was finished in one minute; and, on the eigh- teenth day, the stump was perfectly healed. (See Practisclie Ansichte Chir. op. h. I. p. 1 —10. 4Co. Stuttgart, 1816.) The same practitioner had five other secondary amputations of the same kind ; but one patient was afterwards carried off by hemorrhage, and another by hospital gangrene. Klein, however, in common with the majority of army surgeons, considers the idea of applying any one plan of operating, to different cases, to- tally absurd. (P. 12.) After the storming of St, Sebastian’s, nine shoulder-joint amputations were done with success : seven of them by raising the deltoid as a flap. (See Guthrie on Gunshot Wounds, p. 108.) After the battle of Waterloo, I adopted La Faye’s plan ; but with this difference, that I did not cut the brachial artery till I made the last stroke of the knife, which separated the limb, and consequently I did not tie the vessel till the time when I had nothing but the hemorrhage to occupy my attention. The circumflex arteries, however, I tied as soon as the external flap was made. The modification of thrusting a knife under the deltoid, quite across the shoulder, and making the flap by cutting downwards, until the instrument comes out again through the skin, is practised by some surgeons of eminence (Klein, ' &c.) ; but this is a method which I should never choose to follow, as the flesh may be more smoothly and accurately cut from without*in- wards. This is a principle which, in my opinion, ought to apply to every flap-amputation. When the state of the integuments will permit :he choice, Mr. Guthrie thinks their preservation •^est effected by Larrey’s first method; but he particularly insists upon the advantage of raising he shattered arm, or stump, to nearly a right 1 ingle witli the body, before the operation begins, 1 ind even before the assistant makes pressure on he subclavian artery, as some change in the mode >f accomplishing the latter object might be ren- lered necessary by elevating the limb during the jperation itself. Mr. Guthrie commences the *r*t incision immediately below the acromion, In<l, with a gentle curve, extends it downwards mj inwards, through the integuments ordy, a lU e below the anterior fold of the armpit. The iccond incision outwards is made after the same manner, but is carried rather further down, so as to expose the long head of the triceps at the under edge of the deltoid. The third incision, commencing at the same spot as the first, but following the margin of the retracted skin, divides the deltoid on that side down to the bone, and exposes the insertion of the pectoralis major, which must be cut through. This flap is now to be raised, so as to expose the head of the bone. The fourth incision outwurds divides the deltoid muscle down to the bone, when the posterior flap is to be well turned back, so as to bring into view the teres minor and infra-spinatus passing from the scapula to the great tuberosity of the humerus. The outer and inner flap being now raised, the head of the bone may be rolled a little outwards, the teres minor and infra-spinatus cut, and an opening made into the joint. The capsular liga- ment, supra-spinatus, and long head of the biceps are then divided. The inner side of the capsule is now cut through, together with the subscapu- laris muscle, as it approaches its insertion into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The long head of the triceps is next divided, and, lastly, with one sweep of the knife, the rest of the soft parts are cut, together with the axillary artery, veins, and nerve. (On Gunshot Wouiuls, p. 274—276.) The doubtful part of this method seems to be, that of cutting the circumflex arteries twice, which, when they bleed much, ought to be secured without any delay, more especially in secondary operations, where every drop of blood is of conse- quence. The principle laid down by Desault, that in operative surgery in general, all important vessels should be tied, if possible, ere other things are done, is one of the most valuable maxims which can be inculcated. On this point I should more strongly differ from Larrey, who, in his latest method, takes no measures in the first stage of the operation for commanding the flow of blood, as the assistant merely presses the axillary artery between his fingers just before it is divided. Some of the modern French surgeons were earlier, than Larrey, in dispensing with the com- pression of the axillary artery, and following a method which renders it unnecessary. Richerand, for instance, describes nearly the same plan as was advised by La Faye; but after making the deltoid flap, cutting the tendons, and dislocating the bone, he dissects down close to the inside of the humerus, so as to enable an intelligent assist- ant to put his thumb on the cut surface behind the artery, which, with the aid of the four fingers, applied to the skin of the axilla, can then be grasped and compressed, so as to command the flow of blood through the vessel. The operator now, fearless of hemorrhage, completes the in- cision of the internal or inferior flap.—(liichc- runtl, Nongraphic Chirurgicale, t. 4.p. 509—511. edit. 4.) Dupuytren, surgeon to the IIotel-Dieu, at Paris, amputates at the shoulder, in a manner which seems principally commendable on account of its celerity. The arm being raised and held at a right angle with the trunk, Dupuytren stands at the inside of the limb, with one hand grasps and elevates the mass of the deltoid muscle, and plunges under it a two-edged knife, from before backward, on a level with the end of the acromion. Cutting in this way close to the head of the hu- merus, he continues the incision downward be-