ULCERS. 1076 advantages of the foregoing mode of treatment, deserves particular notice: when M. ltoux lately visited the London Hospitals, he had for the first time an opportunity of seeing this prac- tice, which had never been tried in France. The plan appeared to him so different from every thing which he had been accustomed to see in his own country, where ulcers were almost al- ways treated by rest in an horizontal posture, and emollient applications, that he left London somewhat prejudiced against the new method. Subsequently to his return to Paris, however, he has given it a fair trial, and experience has now entirely changed his opinion, as he has had the candour to acknowledge. (See Relation d'un Voyage fait a Lonclrcs cn 1814, ou Parallelc de la Chirurgie Angloise avec la Chirurgie Franqoise, par P. J. Roux, p. 150.) OF ULCERS ATTENDS!} WITH SOME STECIFIC DISEASED ACTION, EITHER CONSTITUTIONAL, OR LOCAL. 1. Ulcers which yield to Mercury. Here we shall exclude from consideration venereal ulcers, as this subject is treated of in the article Venereal Disease. At present, we shall only notice such sores, as are produced by other diseases of the general system, or of the parts, and are capable of being cured by mercury. Perhaps there is no greater source of error in the whole practice of surgery, than the suppo- sition, that a sore, when it yields to mercury, must be of a syphilitic nature. Surgeons, how- ever, who run into this absurdity, can hardly be imagined to be unaware, that so potent a medi- cine must have effects on numerous diseases of very different descriptions. Sir E. Home ac- curately remarks, that many ulcers, unconnected with the venereal disease, which receive no be- nefit from other medicines, heal under a mer- curial course, or yield to mercurial applications. In some cases, the ulcer remains in the same state, while mercury is used; but, begins to look better, as soon as the medicine is discontinued, in consequence of the beneficial change pro- duced in the system by the mercurial course. In these cases, mercurial frictions are the best, because they occasion least impairment of the constitution, in consequence of the stcmach con- tinuing undisturbed, and capable of digesting well. Another description of ulcers, noticed by Sir E. Home, as deriving benefit from mercury, occur on the instep and foot, have a very thick- ened edge, and are attended with a diseased state of the surrounding skin, so as to bear some re- semblance to elephantiasis. They are frequently observed affecting servants, who live in opulent families, in an indolent and luxurious way. Sir E. Home states, that fumigations with hydrargyrus sulphuratus ruber heal these ulcers, and resolve in a great degree the swelling of the surround- ing parts. In some instances, an ointment of calomel and hog’s-lard; in others, the campho- rated weak mercurial ointment, is the best appli- cation. Many diseased ulcers, particularly those of a superficial kind, with a thickened edge, may be healed, when thev are dressed with a solution of one grain of the hydrargyrus muriatus, in an : ounce of water, containing a little spirit. 2. Ulcers curable by Hemlock. Sir E. Home places more reliance on hem- lock, as an external, than an internal remedy, for ulcers. The ulcers, which usually receive bene- fit from hemlock applications, look like those of an irritable sort; but, the surrounding parts are thickened, in consequence of some diseased ac- tion. Such sores occur near the ankle; which joint is at the same time enlarged. Sometimes, but not so often, they take place over the liga- ments of the knee. On account of their situ- ation, and the swelling of the joint, they may' be suspected to be scrophulous, though they are more sensible than strumous ulcers usually are. The sores just described, are rendered less pain- ful, their diseased disposition is checked, and the swelling of the joint diminished, by hemlock. Several irritable scrophulous ulcers are also par- ticularly benefited by this medicine. Sir E. Home gives the preference to hemlock poultices, unless their weight should be objection- able, in which case, he advises lint to be dipped in a decoction of the herb, and put on the sore. Of the ointment, made with the inspissated juice, Sir E. Home say's but little, in regard to its efficacy'. 3. Ulcers curable by Salt Water. Sir E. Home takes notice of other specific ulcers, which yield to this application, after re- sisting other remedies. Poultices, made with sea-water, are often employ'ed; but, this gentle- man seems to prefer keeping the part immersed in the water in a tepid state, about a quarter of an hour, twice a day. When sea-water poultices bring out pimples, 1 in cases of scrophulous ulcers on the legs and feet, Sir E. Home informs us, that this disa- greeable circumstance may' be obviated by di- luting such water with an equal quantity of a decoction of poppies. After a time, the salt- | water may be tried by itself again. While each ■ fresh poultice is preparing, the part should also be immersed in such water warmed. When there is a tendency to anasarca, or when there is an unusual coldness in the limb, unattended with any propensity to mortification, tepid salt-water may be used with infinite ad- i vantage. 4. Ulcers, curable by the Argentum Nitralum. : Sir E- Home notices, under this head, an ulcer, which does not penetrate more deeply, 1 tiian the cutis; but, spreads in all directions, r producing ulceration on the surface of the skin, and often extending nearly through its whole n thickness. The part, first affected, heals, while j the skin beyond is in a state of ulceration. Of this description are, a leprous eruption, \ mostly seen in men impressed in Ireland: a j disease of the skin induced by buboes, which j; have continued a great while after the venereal | virus has been destroyed; and the ring-worm. All these diseases arc most easily cured by ;| applying to them a solution of the argentum I nitratum. The leprous eruption is communicated by