336 NECROSIS. acrid, or caustic remedies, or even with the knife, diseases, which required the mildest applications, and to he left in a great measure to nature. The old surgeons were afraid of laying on the exposed injured surface of a hone unctuous emollient dressings, and yet, for what reason I know not, they subjected the part to the action of spirituous, acrid, drying applications. As for myself, I deem it proved hy infallible and frequently repeated trials, not only that an exposed injured hone may he dressed with a mild ointment without any ill consequences, but even with the greatest advantage. Why should that, which is beneficial to the soft parts, be so prejudicial to the hones? In ulcers of the soft parts, indeed, the employ- ment of the remedy, which I recommend, is less important, because these parts are naturally humid, and there is no risk of their becoming dry. But with regard to the bones, whose dry texture is only penetrated by few vessels, which may easily be destroyed if they be suffered to become quite dry, it is absolutely necessary to use an emollient ointment, as a dressing, well calculated to defend these vessels, which are the support of life, and preserve them from the bad effects of exposure to the air. Therefore, ob- serves Weidmann, if a surgeon would avoid pro- ducing a necrosis himself, and not neglect any means, that tend to prevent such disorder, he should make it a rule never to apply any thing acrid to exposed hones, but, on the contrary, to defend them with a dressing of some unirri- fating ointment.” (Dc Necrosi Ossium, p. 11.) It was formerly supposed, that purulent matter, collected near a bone, might in time become acrimonious, corrode the bone, and produce ne- crosis. Hence, it was a rule to open sueh an abscess as soon as its existence was known. But, Weidmann questions whether there was any real necessity for this practice. No doubt, says he, the preceding erroneous opinion arose from -the circumstance of the bones being often found bare, carious, or even affected with ne- crosis, when abscesses were near them; but, things happened thus, because the inflammation, which caused the suppuration, had also extended its effects to the periosteum and bone. He affirms, that be has witnessed ulcers, in which the surface of bones, bare and uncovered by the periosteum, lay bathed in pus for a very con- siderable time; yet, being dressed with a mild ointment, they continued entire, granulations grew from them, and cicatrization followed. He had also in his possession portions of bones af- fected with necrosis, which had lain for years in pus; still their surface was smooth, and pre- sented no marks of erosion. If then these pieces of bone underwent no alteration, how much less likely to do so are bones, which are endued with life! But, though Weidmann wisely rejects the doc- trine of pus being capable of destroying the periosteum and bones by any corrosive qualities, he acknowledges his belief, that the matter of an abscess may by its quantity compress and inflame the adjacent parts, and occasion their removal by the absorbents. While the periosteum intervenes between an abscess and tne bone, he does not see how the latter can be hurt by the pus; but, when the abscess is copious and lodged between that membrane and the bone, the vessels passing from the former will be destroyed, and either [1 caries or necrosis ensue. The inflammation, arising from the causes fi which excite necrosis, may be either acute, or I chronic. It is chronic, when it begins and I passes through its different stages slowly, atula when the mildness of the symptoms may lead us |j to mistake the nature of the case. This sort of* | inflammation chiefly happens in debilitated con- | j stitutions, in which the necrosis only affects thclfl external part of a bone, and originates from 4 some chronic cause, such as scrofula, lues vene-jl rea, and the scurvy. But, when necrosis at—.11 tacks the interior, and the disease occurs in ail strong, irritable, plethoric subject, inflammation || is immediately kindled, attended with the most!] acute symptoms, severe pain, considerable fever, | restlessness, delirium, &c. Chronic inflamma-lj tion is more supportable; but its duration isJ[ longer: acute inflammation is more afflicting-,11 but sooner comes to a crisis. The part, in which a necrosis is situated, is II affected with swelling. What has been observed,! j respecting the inflammation, is also applicable tali this tumor, which most frequently forms gradually,! but sometimes with great rapidity. In the firsw case, the accompanying pain is dull and incon-,1 siderable; in the second, it is violent. Tbql swelling has not, like that of abscesses, an ele- vated apex. On the contrary, it is so widely! diffused, that the limits, which circumscribe it can hardly be distinguished. This diffusion of the swelling is the greater, in proportion as the diseased bone is more deepbi| buried in soft parts: it may extend over thi[ whole morbid bone, or even over the whole liml* ? The swelling comes on at the very beginning! i of the disorder, and continues to increase, until. the matter which it contains finds its way out| when the evacuation is followed by a partial sub* sidence of the tumor. The swelling is some! times also combined with oedema, especially i* persons, whose constitutions have been impaired by the severity of the disease, the violence oj 1 the sufferings, and the long and profuse disl charge. When the inflammation is acute, purulen) matter of good quality soon collects in the v't cinity of the necrosis. In the contrary easeji the pus forms slowly, and is thinner and lesl healthy. The abscess, which accompanies a necrosis naturally soon bursts when it arises from intensj I inflammation, and is situated near the skini < which is itself inflamed. But, when the bone ijj i surrounded by a great thickness of soft partd and the inflammation is chronic, the quantity car] matter daily increases, the cavity, which it ocj 1 cupies, becomes larger and larger, and consider^ able pressure is made in the abscess on ever i side. The bones and tendons resist fora Ion, ! while the progress of the matter; but the cel) i lular substance yields, and different sinuses forn ? which sometimes run to a vast distance from th t main collection of matter, especially when till abscess lies under an aponeurosis. It uras supposed a few years ago, that, in case I of necrosis, the matter was invariably snnioiu acrid, and fetid. But the celebrated Weidman exposed the error of this opinion. He had ofte seen abscesses and ulcers, arising from necrosis j ‘