ANEURISM. ther aneurismal sac, contained in the abdomen, and situated behind the peritoneum, on the left side of the lumbar vertebrae. In endeavouring to discover, whence the extravasated blood proceed- ed, Richerand found, that the abdominal aorta was entire, though in contact with the swelling. I he original affection consisted of an aneurismal dilatation of the inferior portion of the thoracic aorta, which had burst at the point, where it lies betwixt the crura of the diaphragm. The blood had probably escaped very slowly, and it had ac- cumulated in the cellular substance, which sur- rounds the kidney, so that three cysts had burst successively, before the patient died. (Nusngr. Chir. T 4,7- &2. Edit. 2.) Every aneurism so situated that it cannot be compressed, nor tied above the swelling, is for the most part absolutely incurable. But, it should be recollected, that sometimes the size of the swell- ing appears to leave no room for the application of a ligature above it, while things are in reality otherwise, in consequence of the communication between the sac and the artery, bearing no pro- portion to the magnitude of the tumour itself. At the present day, also, enlightened by anatomi- cal knowledge, and encouraged by successful ex- perience, surgeons boldly follow the largest arte- ries, even within the boundaries of the chest and abdomen, as we shall presently relate, and nume- rous facts have now proved, that few external aneurisms are beyond the reach of modern sur- gery. It being certain, that aneurisms cannot commonly be cured, except by an obliteration of the affected artery, it follows, that the circulation must be carried on by the superior and inferior collateral branches, or else the limb will mortify. Experience proves, that the impediment to the passage of the blood, through the diseased artery, obliges this fluid to pass through the collateral branches, whiclr gradually acquire an increase of size. It is therefore a common notion, that it must be in favour of the success of the operation, if the disease be of a certain standing; and in direct opposition to the sentiments of Kirkland, Boyer even asserts, that the most successful opera- tions have been those performed on persons, who have had the disease a long while. (Traite des Maladies Chirnrg. T. 2, p. 116.) There is this objection to delay, however, that the tumour becomes so large, and the effects of its pressure so extensive and injurious, that, after the artery is tied, great inflammation, suppuration, and sloughing,often attack the swelling itself and the patient fa lisa victim to what would not have oc- curred, ha dthe operation been done sooner. The large size of an aneurism, as Mr. Hodg- son has rightly observed, is a circumstance, which materially prevents the establishment of a collateral circulation. When the tumour has ac- quired an immense bulk, it has probably destroyed the parts, in which some of the principal anasto- mosing branches are situated; or by its pressure it may prevent their dilatation. (See Hodgson on the Diseases of Arteries ami Veins, p. 259.) The practice of permitting an aneurism to increase, that the collateral branches may become enlarged, (says this gentleman) is not only unnecessary but injurious, inasmuch as that the increase of the umour must be attended with a destruction of the surrounding parts, which will render the cure of the disease more tedious and uncertain. (P. 266.) The most successful operations, which I have seen, were performed before the aneurismal swell- ings were very large. However, notwithstand- ing the great disadvantages of letting the swell- ing become bulky before the operation, the fact ap- pears scaroelv yet to have made due impression, and surgeons are yet blinded with the plausible scheme of giving time for the collateral vessels to enlarge: at least, I infer, that things are so, from having lately' seen a patient, who had been ad- vised to let the operation be postponed on such a ground, though the swelling in the ham was al- ready as large as an egg. The surgeon should not be afraid of operating, although appearances of gangrene may have taken place on the tumour; for, as Mr. Hodg- son remarks, should it burst afterwards, it is pro- bable, that both extremities of the artery in the sac will be closed with coagulum. i Hodgson, p. 305.) Mr. A. Cooper tied the external iliac ar- tery in two cases of inguinal aneurism, when gangrene existed, and though the tumours burst, no hemorrhage ensued. The coagulum was dis- charged; the sac granulated; and the sores gra- dually healed. (Medico < Itir.TiunS. Vill. 4, /;. 431.) The effects of the pressure of aneurisms upon the bones, are justly regarded as an unpleasant complication, when they take place in an exten- sive degree, and, according to writers, they’ may sometimes induce a necessity for amputation. (jB.'ce' , Tiaiie nes Mai. Chir. .2./>. 117.) How- ever, I have never seen a case of this description; and Mr. Hodgson, as we have already explained, informs us, that the affection of the bones is hardly ever attended with exfoliations, or the formation of pus, so that if the aneurism can be cured, the bones will recover their healthy state, without undergoing those processes which take place in the cure of caries, or necrosis. (On Diseases of A'teries mid Veins, />. 80.) At the same time, there can be no doubt, that where the tumour has been allowed to attain a large size, before an at- tempt is made to cure it, and where, from this cause, both the neighbouring soft parts and the bone have suffered considerably, the completion of a cure, that is to say, the full restoration of the use of the limb, must be far more distant than in other cases, where the cure is attempted in an earlier stage. Here, then, we see another reason against the pernicious doctrine of waiting for the enlargement of the anastomosing vessels, in addition to that which has been urged in the previous column. The age, constitution, and state of the patient’s health, are also to be considered in the prognosis; for they undoubtedly make a great difference in the chance of success after the operation. The operation, however, should not be rejected on account of the age of the patient, if the cir- cumstances of the case in other respects appear to demand it; for it has often succeeded at very' advanced periods of life. “ I have seen several aneurisms cured by the modern operation, in pa- tients above sixty years of age.” (Hodgson, p- 304.) A fact to which my own opportunities of observation enable me also to bear witness. When an aneurism exists in the course of the aorta, the violent action of the heart, excited by an operation in the extremities, may cause it to burst, and prove instantaneously fatal. Two cases have recently occurred in this metropolis, in which