902 OPHTHALMY. <v the sclerotica, is the appearance of a vascular zone at the margin of the cornea. By the latter gentleman, this eflect is ascribed to the particular distribution of the vessels. “ Branches from the straight vessels of the conjunctiva penetrate the sclerotica obliquely towards the margin of the cornea, and the long ciliary vessels pass in sulci of this membrane to the plexus ciliaris at the root of the iris. At the interior border of the sclerotica, where the annulus ciliaris is adhering closely to this tunic, the ciliary communicate with the muscular branches, and being in deep-seated inflammation fully injected with red blood, the condensation of colour gives the well-known and remarkable appearance of a vascular zone at the margin of the cornea.” (Synopsis, S[C. p. 126.) According to Dr. Vetch, only a few interspersed trunks are posteriorly observed, “which do not affect the natural appearance of the intermediate space, but, these diverging as they come for- wards, produce a zone, more or less complete, of minute hair like vessels, distinguished by their rectilinear direction, and their uniform concen- tration towards the margin of the cornea ; their colour advances with the progress of the disease, from that of a delicate pink, or damask rose, to a deeper hue, and imparting a faint blush to the part immediately surrounding it.” (On Diseases of the Eye, p. 27.) There appears, however, to be a good deal of variety in the symptoms of sclerotitis; for rheumatic inflammation of the eye, described by Professor Beer, and Mr. Wardrop, as particularly affecting the sclerotica, in common with other fibrous membranes, is not noticed by these authors as characterized by the red zone round the edge of the cornea. Indeed, instead of there being posteriorly only a few in- terspersed trunks, Mr. Wardrop states. “ that (in rheumatic ophthalmy) the blood-vessels are gene- rally equally numerous over the whole white of the eye, passing forwards in nearly straight lines from the posterior part of the eyeball, and ad- vancing close to the cornea; but, neither passing over it, nor leaving the pale circle around it, which is so striking when either the choroid coat, or iris, is infamed. If the ves- sels be closely examined, the general redness will be found produced more from numerous small ramifications, than a few large trunks.” (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. JO,p. 3.) However, as if there must be no harmony on this subject, Beer describes the blood-vessels, in rheumatic ophthalmy, not as being equally numerous over the whole white of the eye, but as being in some places collected in larger numbers or clusters, and he differs again from Mr. Wardrop, in de- scribing the redness as coming on with con- siderable intolerance of light, (Lehrc von den Augenlcr. B. I, p. 397—398,) while the latter author distinctly mentions, that “ the eye does not seem to suffer from exposure to light.” (Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 10, p. 6.) I can only reconcile these accounts by concluding, that, sclerotic inflammation, like that of other textures of the eye, has stages and modifications, which account for these seeming contradictions. And, with respect to the vascular zone, round the edge of the cornea, it would appear, at «ll events, to belong to iritis, as well as sclerotic inflam- mation. The vessels of the sclerotic coat are observed by Dr. Vetch, to follow the motion of the eye, and he says, that they may, by this circumstance, be distinguished from those of Un- conjunctiva, “ the vessels of the latter, indepeml. ent of their darker colour, their more tortuous form, and varying size, have likewise a more j longitudinal direction, and as they proceed froniL j the angles of the orbit, they form radii of af larger circle. The distinction, between the in-11 flamed vessels of the conjunctiva, and the scle-t, j rotica, (says Dr. Vetch) I consider to be, there-ia:. fore, obvious; but, that any difference can observed in the arrangement, or appearance tijHi the vessels of the latter, sufficiently distinct iojli indicate the peculiarity of the exciting causeM or specific nature of the case, is more than have been able to perceive. The general chav It racter, as it arises out of the structure of the)!-; part, will be found the same, whether the causeji be gout, rheumatism, or syphilis. The vessels^ j;. such as I have described them, will always hi most observable on the upper portion of the eye^ as it is in that place that the inflammation i^ most intense, except when its locality is affected! by any external exciting cause, in which case, it) will be greatest near the injured part.” Diseases of the Eye, p. 29.) While Dr. Vetch describes the vessels of thel lj conjunctiva as exhibiting in sclerotic inflamma-t *| tion a darker colour, than that of the vessels o^if the sclerotic coat itself) Mr. Travers represents th^Ii. vessels of the latter membrane, which pursue straight course to the margin of the cornea, ai|K. having a somewhat darker hue than the arcolanm. vessels upon the loose portion of the conjunctivaA It should be mentioned, howTever, that by scle-w rotic inflammation, Dr. Vetch signifies infiam-flj mation of the eye itself, as contrasted with con-tp junctival inflammation ; but, how far this will ac-*fif count for the differences, above pointed out be-JI J tween his description and that of Mr. Travers, I) j amnotprepared to saj\ According to Mr.Travers* j ordinary inflammation of the sclerotica is second-4 I ary, that is to say, this membrane is usually af- { fected only as intermediate to the conjunctiva and 1i the other tunics. However, he has occasionally ob-i served, in a recent ophthalmia, a turgescence oii ] the vessels, which pursue a straight course to tlitjl j cornea, unaccompanied with any affection of thtjjlj iris, and so slight a vascularity of the loosen! conjunctiva, that he was disposed to regard thulj case as a primary sclerotitis. The inflammation* ; he says, is not acute, and the motions of the eye-* j hall are painful. It sometimes accompanies, andj j sometimes follows rheumatic inflammation. Iff ) continued, it presents the vascular zone and a i pupil contracted, or drawn a little to one side* ; It is often seen in company with eruptions, oi ,i ■ sorelhroat, of a pseudo-syphilitic character, or i$ secondary to gonorrhoea. (Travers, Synopsisj §c.V. 128.) The practice, recommended by this gentleman^ a is as follows : obtuse pain in the eyeball, he saysji may he materially relieved by blood-letting, ani| by antimony and ipecacuanha with opiates. Mer4 it cury is stated to have much less power over thi-t ■* case, than iritis. In general, the patient is serioush|! reduced, and very irritable, from suffering rheu4jjk matic inflammation in the elbow, knee, or ankleH a state, to the production of which the previouip.' use of mercury has commonly contributed. Buff though such is stated to he tire case, the modcfjjf