inspissates in the meatus, ami not only obstructs the entrance of sound, but is accompanied with a great degree of foetor. This disease is not un- frequent. I have never seen it resist the effect of alterative medicines,” the use of injections containing the oxymuriate of quicksilver, and the application of the unguentum hydrargyri nitrati. Mr. Saunders exhibited calomel as the alterative, anil, in one instance, employed a solution of the argentum nitratum, as an injection. {Page 25, 26.) When the disease is obstinate, a seton .should be made on the nape of the neck, or a blister be applied behind the ear. 10. Affections of the Tympanum. The ear is sometimes affected with a puriform ichorous discharge, attended with a loss of hear- ing, proportionate to the degree of disorganiza- tion which the tympanum has sustained. Fre- juently, on blowing the nose, air is expelled at he meatus auditorius externus; and, when this s the case, it is evident, that the discharge is connected with an injury, or destruction of the nembrana tympani. However, when the Eu^ta- hian tube is obstructed with mucus, or matter, >r when it is rendered impervious, arid perma- lently closed by inflammation, the metnbrana ympani may not be perfect, and yet, it is clear, no ir can in this state be forced out of the external ar in the above manner. An examination with blunt probe, or with the eye, while the rays of le sun fall into the passage, should therefore ot be omitted. If the membrane have any perture in it, the probe will pass into the cavity f the tympanum, and the surgeon feel that his ustrument is in contact with the ossicula. In this manner, the affection may be discri- iinated from an herpetic ulceration of the mea- ls auditorius externus. The causes are va- ous: In scarlatina maligna, the membrana mpani occasionally inflames, and sloughs; all e ossicula are discharged, and, if the patient /e, he often continues quite deaf. An ear-ach, in her words, acute inflammation of the tyrnpa- im. is the most common occasion of suppura- >n in this cavity, in which, and the cells of the astoid process, a good deal of pus collects, t length the membrana tympani ulcerates, and large quantity of matter is discharged ; but, as e secretion of pus still goes on, the discharge ntinues to ooze out of the external ear. ■ Instead of stimulating applications, inflamma- '0 of the tympanum demands the rigorous em- oymcnt of antiphlogistic means. Unfortu- tely, it is a too common practice, in this case, have recourse to acrid spirituous remedies. Jove all things, the repeated application of ches to the skin behind the external ear, and er the mastoid process, should never be neg- ted. As soon as the inflammation ceases, the ?ree of deafness, occasioned by it, will also appear. This, however, does not always 5pen. When an abscess is situated in the cavity of ! tympanum, Mr. Saunders thinks, that the mbrana tympani should not be allowed to st by ulceration, but be opened by a small acture. (P. 111.) However, unless there re the strongest ground for believing, that the stachian tube were impervious, this advice, I n ’ 0ught not to be followed, more especially as the symptoms are generally too vague to afford any degree of certainty in the diagnosis. Sometimes the disease, of which we are treat- ing, is more insidious in its attack : slight pa- roxysms of pain occur, and are relieved by slight discharges. The case goes on in this way, until, at last, a continual discharge of matter from the ear takes place. The disorder is destructive in its tendency to the faculty of hearing, and it rarely stops until it has so much disorganized the tym- panum and its contents, as to occasion total deaf- ness. Hence, Mr. Saunders insists upon the propriety of making attempts to arrest its pro- gress,—attempts which are free from danger; and he censures the foolish fear of interfering with the complaint, founded on the apprehension, that bad constitutional effects may originate from stopping the discharge. If the case be neglected, the tympanum is very likely to become carious; before which change, the disease, says Mr. Saunders, is mostly curable. Mr. Saunders divides the complaint into three stages: 1. A simple puriform discharge. 2. A puriform discharge complicated with fungi and polypi 3. A puriform discharge with caries of the tympanum. As the disease is local, direct ap- plications to the parts affected are chiefly enti- tled to confidence. Blisters and setons may also be advantageously employed. Mr. Saun- ders’s practice consisted in administering laxa- tive medicines and fomenting the ear, while in- flammatory symptoms lasted, and afterwards in- jecting a solution of the sulphate of zinc, or cerussa acetata. In the second stage, when there were fungi, he removed or destroyed them With forceps, afterwards touched their roots with the argentum nitratum, or injected a solution of alum, sulphate of zinc, or argentum nitratum Writers describe a relaxed state of the mem- brana tympani, as a cause of deafness. If, says a late author, after a discharge from the meatus au- ditorius externus, or cavity of the tympanum, or a dropsy of the latter cavity, the hearing remains hard, there is reason to suspect, that the infirmity may depend upon relaxation of the membrane of the tympanum, or paralysis of the internal muscle of the malleus. This suspicion will be strength- ened, if the deafness should increase in damp, and lessen in dry, weather; and particularly, if it be found, that the hearing is benefited by in- troducing into the ear dry warm tonic appli- cations. such as the smoke of burning juniper- berries, or other astringent vegetable substances. The decoction of bark, used as an injection, is also said to have done good. The relaxation of the •tympanum, alleged to proceed from a rupture of the muscle of the mal- leus, is deemed incurable ; but it is not so with the case, which depends upon paralysis of this muscle. Here tonic injections into the tympa- num, through the Eustachian tube, are recom- mended. {Did, (l>s Sciences Mid. T. 38, p. 50.) Electricity, stimulating liniments and gargles, and a blister, might also be tried. Imperfect hearing is supposed sometimes to arise from preternatural tension ot the membrane of the tympanum, indicated by the patient hear- ing better in wet than dry weather, and by his hearing what is spoken in a low tone, near