MURIATIC ACID. 8;il till prevails in the veterinary art, as a mode of • m iner diseases, it lias long been .abandoned as a neans of relief in the English practice of sur- ,ery: not on the ground of its being always heffectua!; but, because equal good has been -mud to result from measures, which are milder, Iwavs less terrific, and frequently less painful. n order to convince an English surgeon that :oxa and the actual cautery ought to be intro- uced into practice, M. Roux should prove, that here is at least some particular disease, which aay in this manner be cured, but which cannot e cured by other means, ordinarily employed in 11 r practice. He should also make us forget, .ha,, the application of actual fire was once as ommon in English surgery as in French; but hat it had not attractions enough to maintain s ground. MURIATIC ACID. Acidum Muriati, urn. Gargles, containing this acid, are often rade use of with advantage in various cases ot ore throat, and the disease known by the name f cancrum oris. The following formula is em- iloyed at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. R • losae rubrae exsiccatte Jij. Aquae ferventis jRj. nfunde per horam dimidiam, dein cola et adde kccidi muriatici yj. Mellis Rosae ^ij. Sac- hari purificati 3vj- Misce. Muriatic acid appears to have been tried in yphilis earlier than the nitric, Dr. Zeller, of 'ienna, having employed it as a successful re- ledy for this disease ever since the year 1789. Vid. Sim. Zeller's Prakt. Bemerk iiber den orziigl. Nutzen d. allcrcm. bekavnt. Badc- •hxcamcns. <|-c. JYcbst. einem A nhangc v. d. ‘alzsaure, 6(c. Wien. 1797.) As a medicine capable of improving the ap- earance of venereal ulcers, and of restraining >r a time the progress of the disease, it has been nown to Mr. Pearson many years. He says, tat he was first induced to give this acid in ve- ereal ulcers of the tongue, and of the throat, in onsequence of the great benefit which he had een result from its use in examples of cancrum ris: and without viewing it as an antidote for les venerea, he has frequently availed himself f its useful qualities, when it was desirable to ain a little time previously to the commence- lent of a mercurial course. (Ohs. on the Effects f various Articles in the Cure of Lucs Ve- er ea, p. 193, Ed. 2.) From what he saw, owever, he never inferred, that the sulphuric nd muriatic acids could radically cure the vene- ?al disease ; and he ascribed the benefit derived 'om them partly to their salutary effects on the comach and constitution, and partly to their gency on ulcers of the throat and tongue, as ical applications. (P. 117.) When Mr. Pear- on made these observations, the fact, which has ow been so unequivocally demonstrated in the rmy hospitals, that nearly, if not all, the forms f disease, going under the name of syphilis, may e cured without mercury, had not under- one the strict and impartial investigations, diieh have of late years been devoted to the object. (See particularly Ohs. on the Treat- nent nj Syphilis, with an account of several uses of that disease, in which a cure was rf- n fed without the use of mercury, by T. Hose, n Midicn-Cliir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 349.) If this point be admitted as fully established, the question about the antisyphilitic virtues of various articles of the materia medica requires to be taken up in a very different light, not clouded with a notion, that the disease will certainly get worse and worse, if no remedy whatever be exhibited, or that it cannot finally get well of itself. While these doctrines prevailed, the amendment of any syphilitic affection during the use of mu- riatic, or any other, acid was entirely referred to some specific effect, supposed to appertain to such medicine. But now the question involves several considerations; first, the actual virtue of the medicine in expediting the cure of the dis- ease ; secondly, the changes which might happen, if the complaint were left to itself; and, thirdly, the benefit sometimes ascribable to the improve- ment produced in the constitution, under parti- cular circumstances, by the discontinuance of mercury. The latter mineral no longer claims the name of a specific for the venereal disease, either in the sense of the only, or a completely certain, antidote; because nature herself would in time bring most cases to a favourable conclu- sion ; because the cure can be completed by a variety of other medicines, noticed in this pub- lication ; and, lastly, because mercury, though it may be generally the quickest means of curet is, in particular cases, complicated with much debility and constitutional irritability, the surest medicine for aggravating the complaint, and preventing any progress towards a favourable termination. Here it is enough to know (and Mr. Pearson himself acknowledges the fact;, that in the circumstances above specified, muriatic acid is a safer medicine than mercury. The dose is from ten to twenty drops, which are to be mixed with a proper quantity of water. Muriatic acid has sometimes been employed, as the active ingredient in injections for the cure of gonorrhoea, in the proportion of eight or ten drops to four ounces of distilled water. In cases of poison from muriatic acid, the ex- periments, made by Orfila, lead him to consider calcined magnesia and prepared soap the most fit substances for neutralizing such portion of the acid, as may not yet be combined with the tex- ture of the oesophagus, stomach, &c. They should be given as soon as possible after the corrosive poison has been swallowed, care being taken to let the patient drink copiously of warm water, milk, broth, or some mucilaginous diluting liquid. When, from the symptoms, there is rea- son to believe that inflammation exists in the viscera, or when spasms and convulsions come on, antiphlogistic remedies, and antispasmodies, are indicated. (Trait6 dcs Poisons, p. 47(1, Vol. I, Ed. 2, Paris, 1818.) In order to de- tect the presence of muriatic acid, when mixed with wine, or other fluids, we are recommended to distil a portion of it from a small retort over a candle, into a phial containing a solution of nitrate of silver. The precipitation of muriate of silver, which is soluble in ammonia, but not in nitric, acid, will take place if the poison con- tain muriatic acid. ( Thomson's Dispensatory, p. 434, Ed. 2.) By Morveau, who employed himself in in- vestigating the merits of Dr. Carmichael Smith’s mode of destroying infection, the muriatic acid