STA 984 SPL the limb is laid upon its outside, the foot is also usually supported and kept steady by the under splint extending some distance towards the toes. Very excellent splints' for the legs of young children are made of strong pasteboard, accom- modated in shape to the contour of the limb. Splints for the thigh, arm, and forearm, whether made of tin, or wood, should always be slightly concave on the side, which is to be applied to the broken limb. They should likewise be made as thin and light, as is consistent with the neces- sary degree of strength for preventing the broken bone from bending. The sets of splints, which are used for fractured legs and thighs in Eng- land, are frequently furnished with straps, which have a great many small perforations in them at stated distances, and can thus be easily fastened by means of little pegs for the purpose, Tapes are also sometimes employed; but they often get loose, and cannot be depended upon so well as leather straps. Pasteboard, as a material for splints, has one advantage, viz.; when wet, it becomes soft, and admits of being accurately applied to every point of the surlace of the limb: consequently, as soon as it dries and recovers its firmness again, it retains the exact shape of the part, and makes every where equal pressure on it, without incommoding the patient. Paste- board, however, is hardly strong and durable enough for many fractures; nor will it answer when there is any discharge, nor when the sur- geon wishes to employ any fluid applications. But, it is generally allowed, that no substance is better calculated for supporting the fractured lower jaw; for, it is perfectly strong enough for this particular case, and if wet before being ap. plied, it forms when dry a solid covering, most accurately corresponding to the shape of the jaw. Whatever may be the substance, of which splints are made, they ought always to be at least as long as the fractured bone; and if the situation of the limb will allow, they ought, says Boyer, to extend its whole length. “For instance, (says he) for simple fractures of the thighs of very young children, the pasteboard splints, which I employ, reach from the upper part of the thigh, to the lower part of the leg. Generally spaaking, the longer splints are, the better they fix the limb, and keep the fracture steady.” (jBoyer Traite dcs Mai. Chir. T. 3, j). 50.) The number of splints must depend upon their breadth, and the thickness of the limb. For thd forearm, two are sufficient; for the upper arm and thigh four are often used; and for the leg two, and sometimes three. In cases of fractured thighs, when the straight position is preferred, the external splint should ex- tend from the crista of the ilium to some little distance beyond the sole of the foot; while the inner one should reach from the upper and in- ternal part of the thigh also beyond the sole of the foot. With respect to the anterior splint it is indifferent, whether it only reaches from the groin to the knee, or as far as the lower part of the leg. The lateral splints for a broken leg ought to be sufficiently long to embrace the knee and confine the motions of the foot and ankle. When patella to the lower part of the tibia. None how- ever can ever be required under the limb, as there the bedding itself more conveniently affords the necessary degree of support. Of all the different pieces of the apparatus for the treatment of fractures, the splints are by far the most important and essential. Without them, indeed, it would be in vain to attempt to keep the extremities of the fracture from being dis- placed. As splints are generally composed of hard materials, the bad effects of their pressure upon the skin must always be counteracted by placing a sufficient quantity of tow, wool, or other soft substance between them and the limb. In order to understand, however, the prin- ciples, which should guide the surgeon in the choice and application of splints, many remarks, offered in the article Fracture, must be consulted. SPONGIA PRALPARATA. (Prepared Sponge; Sponge-tent.J Formed by dipping pieces of sponge in hot melted emplastrum cerae cornpositum, and pressing them between two iron plates. As soon as cold, the substance thus formed, may be cut into pieces of any shape. It was formerly much used for dilating small openings, for which it was well adapted, as when the wax melted, the elasticity of the sponge made it expand and distend the opening. However, the best modern surgeons seldom employ it. SPONGIA USTA. (Burnt Sponge.) This is often given in the form of lozenges, in cases of bronchocele, in which particular instances much j i efficacy is imputed to allowing the lozenges to dissolve gradually in the mouth, after putting them under the tongue. Burnt sponge is also exhibited in many serophulous diseases, and in cases of chronic enlargement of 'the prostate gland. The dose is from a scruple to a dram. STAFF. An instrument of considerable im- portance in the operation of lithotomy, being in fact the director for the gorget, or knife. It is made of steel, and its handle is generally rough, in order that it may be more securely held. As it is intended to be introduced through the ure- thra, its shape ought to be principally determined by the natural course of that passage. The English generally employ a staff the curvature of which forms the segment of a larger circle, than that described by the curvature of a stall used by the French practitioners. (See Roux, Voyage fait a Londres cn 1814, o« Parallelc de la Chirurgic Angloisc, <|-c. p. 319.) In other words, the French staff turns more upward than ours, as it approaches and enters the blad- der. There may be some advantage in this construction, inasmuch, as it tends to make the gorget enter in the direction of the long axis of the bladder ; yet, a great deal more seems to me to depend upon the position in which the staff is held, than upon its shape. Lithotomists should always employ as large a staff as can be easily introduced, because the operation will thereby be facilitated. The groove, the most important part of the staff, is of course situated upon the convexity of the curved part of the instrument, or upon that portion, which, when introduced, lies in the membranous part of the urethra, pro- state gland, and the bladder. It should always