751 LACHRYMAL ORGANS. . ire established again, and that now the only ques- :ion is about the state of the nasal duet, which point cannot be determined, before the fistula is completely healed, and the third period of the second stage is entirely obviated. (Beci, Lane von dm Augenkr. B. 1 P% 556 367.) In the first stage, the indication is to endea- vour to resolve the inflammation. “ It is (as Mr. M’Kenzie observes) by combating the inflamma- ion, that we arc to cure this disease, and not by attacking merely one, or even several of the symptoms. Dilatation, for instance, by the in- troduction of probes through the canals into the sac, and even into the nose, would only be sub- •jeeting the inflamed parts to a new cause of irrita- tion, and might thus produce effects, which would render a complete cure difficult, if not impossible.” On the contrary, in the first stage, Mr. M'Kenzie joins Beer in praise of anti- phlogistic measures; the application of cold lotions :o the part; and, in severe cases, venesection ; and leeches are set down as proper, together with opening and diaphoretic medicines. (On Dis- eases of the Lachrymal Organs, p. 33, 34.) fn the second stage, when resolution is no longer practicable, emollient applications are the . most beneficial, and all debilitating means are to be stopped, by the further use of which an in- curable blennorrhoea of the lachrymal sac would be likely to be induced. And, as soon as the sac i is so distended with mucus and matter, that the .centre of the swelling begins to be soft, and a : fluctuation is perceptible, the sac should be freely opened, so as to let its contents have a ready i outlet. If, after this evacuation, there should be aany deep-seated hardness of the lachrymal sac, .Beer recommends the application of a cam- • phorated hemlock poultice. Afterwards, the wound in the skin and sac is to have introduced i into it a little bit of lint, dipped in the vinous tincture of opium, over which dressing a piece of diachylon plaster may be placed. When, under - such treatment, the suppuration diminishes, but ; a preternatural secretion of mucus yet continues, i Beer introduces into the wound every day a piece of lint, on which is spread a little bit of the fol- lowing ointment: jy. Butyri recentis insulsi, ^ss. Hydrargyri Nitrico-Oxydi, gr. x. tutiae, ptt. gr. vj. M. And, on changing the dress- ings, some of the following lotion may be dropped into the inner canthus, and injected lukewarm , into the sac itself: Subacetatis Cupri, Pot- assae Nitratis, Aluminis, a a griij.—vj. Camphorae trite grij.—iv. Aquae distillate ^ss. Solve et rcola. Liquori colato adde Vini Opii —3'j* Aquae Itosce ^iv. M. Professor Beer makes a mass of the three first articles melted together in equal proportions, and terms it the lapis divinus, of which he makes the lotion, and then adds the other ingredients. When, by means of such treatment, the mucous secretion from the sac has been brought into a healthy state, and all the in- duration has subsided, the period has arrived for ' the surgeon to think of taking measures for the re-establishment of the passage through the nasal duct, if it shoidd not already have become per- vious of itself, which, when the inflammation has been of a healthy kind, and the treatment judi- cious. very frequently happens, (Beer, Lchrc, %c.B. 1, p. 369—871.) Chronic Dlcnnorrhcra of the excreting Parts of the Lachrymal Organs.—Mr. M’Kenzie, whose Essay contains a faithful account of Beer s opinions upon the present subject, describes the inflammation, with which this form of disease commences, as seldom considerable, and in scro- phulous patients, it is said to be not unfrequently quite disregarded, no advice being taken until the lachrymal sac is much distended with mucus. By means of pressure upon the bean-shaped tu- mor, caused bv such distention of the sac, a quantitv of puriform mucus is forced out of the puncta lachrymalia, and overflows the eye; and so far are the lachrymal canals from being ob- structed, that, excepting when any return of in- flammation happens, they even absorb, and con- vey the tears into the sac. Pressure, however, will rarely make the contents of the sac pass through the nasal duct, on account of the thickened state of the mucous membrane, and therefore the nostril is generally very dry. “ In the course of this tedious disease, the accumulated mucus varies much both in quantity and quality. For instance, the mucus accumulates more ra- pidly, and is much thicker after a good meal, than at other times. The secretion of it is very plentiful, but thinner, than usual, when the pa- tient continues long in a moist cold atmosphere. In this case, the overfilling of the sac takes place so rapidly, that the compression of the orbicularis palpebrarum in the action of winking is sufficient to evacuate the sac through the canals to such a degree, that the rvhole surface of the eyeball is suddenly overflowed, and the puriform fluid runs down upon the cheek. After the patient re- mains for a short time in a warm and dry atmo- sphere, the morbid secretion becomes sparing and ropy. We find, that this chronic blennorrhoea almost completely disappears in many individuals during warm weather, upon which the yet unex- perienced patient and the unexperienced surgeon are apt to express a great, but a premature joy, for, on the vert' first change to cold and wet weather, the disease most frequently returns.” During chronic blennorrhoea, the lachrymal sac is extremely liable to repeated attacks of in- flammation, and sometimes a fistula, with a good deal of induration of the surrounding cellular substance, is produced. Mr. M’Kenzie re- presents this disease as the most frequent of all those, to which the excreting parts of the lachry- mal organs are liable, and as consisting in in- flammation of these organs, modified by scro- phula, general debility, disorder of the digestive organs, or other constitutional causes, which pro- long its second stage. “ Even regarded locally'-, the present disease is seldom a primary affection, but is most frequently excited by catarrhal in- flammation of the Schneiderian membrane, or by a long-continued disorder of the Meibomian glands.” (M'Kenzie on Diseases of the Lachry- mal Organs, p. 37—40.) Scarpa’s opinions on the present subject are in some degree peculiar to himself; for he considers the affection of the Meibomian glands and inside of the eyelids, thepitriforvi palpebral discharge, as he terms it, as constituting the first degree of all those complaints, which have usually gone under the name offlstula lachrymalis; the second degree, or effect, being the tumor of the lachrymal sac; and the third, the fistula, or ulcerated opening in the latter part. Scarpa asserts, that the chief