AMPUTATION. so surgeon of experience must be fully convinced, quet .should always be left slackly round thd I Ins happens, whenever the parts are aflected limb, and the nurse, or patient, himself, directed I with considerable tension, inflammation and to turn the screw of the instrument, in order tu swelling, or painful acute abscesses. There is tighten it in case of need. A slack tourniquet lefdl also no utility in keeping the edges of the round the limb, after amputation, cannot do harm,, i wound very closely compressed together, when and its not having been ready in this way, baa all chance of adhesion is past, and the parts cost many patients their lives' as I have known! must heal by the granulating process. My instances of*. friend, Mr. Guthrie, after amputations, performed This kind of hemorrhage has often been known! from necessity in parts not in a healthy state, as to arise from the pressure of a tight bandage| in most secondary amputations after compound round the stump. As Monro observes, the! fractures of the thigh, does not insist upon the circular turns of the bandage, when tight, ’must edges of the wound being brought into close stop the return of blood in the cutaneous veins, contact by sticking plaster, compress, and band- ami thus by making a greater resistance to the! age. In these cases, he also recommends the blood in the arteries, which anastomose with bone to be sawn an inch shorter than usual, or them, occasion the contracting power of the ‘ than would be necessary under other cireum- heart and arteries to dilate, and force more; stances, in order to prevent its protrusion, and blood into their other branches; but, these being the ligatures to be cut off’ close to the knots, so cut in the amputation, will pour out their blood, as to lessen irritation. The integuments and and so hemorrhage is brought on. Making much j muscles are to be brought forward, and retained pressure round the stump is highly deserving of!1 so by a moderately tight roller, but not laid down reprobation, and whenever there is an universal i against the bone. Some fine lint, smeared with oozing of blood, I would recommend the opera- cerate, or oil, is to be put between the edges of tor to be sure, that the circulation in the super- the wound; and a piece of linen and a Malta- fieial veins is not impeded by the tightness of anv cross over it, supported by a few light turns of bandage or tourniquet. the roller. “ In some cases (says Mr. Guthrie) If the bleeding should not be from an artery I have put one, and even two straps of plaster of consequence, the application of linen, dipped over the stump to keep the edges approximated, in the cold water, will sometimes check it, and without being in contact; and, where the parts the disagreeable necessity for removing the are but little diseased, this may be attempted; dressings and opening the wound, may thus be but, if the stump becomes uneasy, they should be avoided. cut, and a poultice applied. When only a part But, it often happens, that the wound must of the stump has appeared to slough, I have be opened, and the bleeding vessel tied. This found the spiritus camphorae alone, or diluted is a very painful proceeding to the patient, and with a watery solution of opium, applied with when the dressings have been applied some the lint, very useful.” (On Gunshot Wounds, p. hours, so that the stump has had time to in- j 104.) flame, nothing can exceed the suffering, to which l The reasons, which induced Mr. Guthrie to the patient is now subjected. Here we see the | incline to the plan of not bringing together the prudence of being particularly careful at first to edges of the wound, in cases of this description, tie every suspicious vessel, must be learned by reference to his own valuable The second sort of hemorrhage, after amputa- work. His cases and arguments are entitled to tion, arises from ulceration of the large arteries, serious consideration, and though they, as well and may occur a month after the operation, as the observations of Roux, (Mem. sur la when the ligatures are all away, and the patient Reunion immediate de la Plaie apres l’Amputa- seems nearly well. tion, 8on. Paris, 1814,) leave me unconvinced Two such cases are related by Mr. Bromfield of the usefulness of not bringing the edges of (Vol. I. p. 307.) This kind of bleeding is less the wound together, immediately after the am- common than formerly, now the plan of covering ‘ putation of bad compound fractures, there are the stump with sound skin is adopted. When the j some of his observations respecting the injurious bleeding vessel is large, there is no chance of effects of too much pressure in certain conditions putting the patient out of danger, except by of the stump, perfectly agreeing with my own cutting down to the vessel, and tying it. The sentiments. At present, I have never seen any trunk of the vessel, however, may sometimes be case of amputation, in which I should not have more conveniently tied, than the bleeding branch thought the surgeon wrong, had he not brought itself. the sides of the wound together directly after the Mr. Hey makes mention of a particular sort operation, so as to afford the chance of union by of hemorrhage, after the operation: “ I have the first intention. seen (says he) a few instances of the integu- ments becoming so contracted after the opera- iiemorrhage after amputation. tion, as to compress the veins just above the Bleeding, after the operation, is of two kinds, extremity of the stump, and bring on after some in regard to the time, when it occurs. The first hours a copious hemorrhage. When it has takes place within twenty-four hours after the appeared clear to me, that the hemorrhage was operation. Hence, an assistant should always venous, I have made a division of the integu- be left with the patient, with directions carefully ments, on one side of the thigh, sufficient to rc- and repeatedly to look at the stump, and if any move the stricture, and this method has im- bleeding should arise, to apply the tourniquet, mediately suppressed the hemorrhage.” (P. until further aid be obtained. In case no assist- 530, edit. 2.) ant can be spared for this purpose, as must fre- I have never yet met with a case, in which a quently happen in country practice, the tourni- hemorrhage was unequivocally produced by a