35 3 DISLOCATION. upward, downward, forward, and backward. In the o-inglymoid articulations, the bones may either be dislocated laterally, or forward or back- ward. 4. The length of time, a dislocation has ex- isted, makes a material difference. In general, recent dislocations may be easily reduced ; but, when the heads of the bones have been out of their places, for several days, the reduction be- comes exceedingly difficult, and, in older cases, very often impossible. The soft parts, and the bone :i itself, have acquired a certain position; the mus- o eies have adapted themselves in length to the altered situation of the bone, to which they are attached, and, sometimes, cannot be lengthened • sufficiently to allow the bone to be reduced. Desault and Boyer believe, that frequently the - opening in the capsular ligament soon becomes ■ closed, and hinders the return of the head of the .bone into its original situation; a statement, which does not coincide with the sentiments of ' Mr. A. Cooper. (Surgical Essays, Pari 1, p. 13.) Lastly, the luxated bone may become adherent to the parts on which it has been forced. 5. The difference is immense, in regard to the danger of the case, arising from the circum- jtance of a dislocation being attended, or un- ittended, with a wound, communicating, inter- laily with the joint, and externally with the air. HVhen there is no wound of this kind, the danger s generally trivial, and the dislocation is termed simple one: when there is such a wound, to- ether with the dislocation, the case is denomi- ated compound, and is frequently accompanied rith the most imminent peril. Indeed, the lat- r kind of accident often renders amputation roper. 6. The causes of dislocations are external and : iternal. A predisposition to such accidents may epend on circumstances natural, or accidental, 'he great latitude of motion, which the joint ad- :its of; the little extent of the articular sur- s; the looseness and fewness of the liga- lents; the lowness of one side of the articular ivity, as, at the anterior and inferior part of the retabulum ; and the shallowness of the cavity, of that of the scapula; are natural predispo- ug causes of luxations. A paralytic affection of the muscles of a int, and a looseness of its ligaments, are also disposing causes. When the deltoid muscle paralytic, the mere weight of the arm has en known to cause such a lengthening of the psulnr ligament of the shoulder joint, that the ad of the os brachii descended two or three :hes from the glenoid cavity. Two cases, strikingly illustrative of the tend- cy to dislocation from a weakened, or paraly- state of the muscles, are recorded by Mr. A. toper. The first is that of a junior officer of India ship, who, for some trifling offence, hail m placed with his foot upon a small projection the deck, while his arm was kept forcibly lwn up to the yard-arm for an hour. “ When returned to England, he had the power of idily throwing that arm from its socket, merely raising it towards his head; but, a very slight f ,,s,on reduced it. The muscles were wasted, ’• as in a case of paralysis.” The other ex- '[> e happened in a young gentleman, troubled 1 a paralytic affection of his right side from dentition. “ The muscles of the shoulder were wasted, and he had the power of throwing his os humeri over the posterior edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, from whence it became easily reduced.” In these cases, Mr. A. Cooper observes, that no laceration of the ligaments could have occurred, and they shew the influence of the muscles in preventing dislocation, and in impeding reduction. (Surgical Essays, Part 1 V- Kb) The looseness of the ligaments sometimes makes the occurrence of dislocations so easy, that the slightest causes produce them. Some per- sons cannot yawn, or laugh, without running the risk of having their lower jaw luxated. On this account, collections of fluid within the knee, causing a relaxation of the ligament of the pa- tella, are often followed by a dislocation of that bone. And, whenever a bone has been once dis- located, it ever afterwards has a tendency to be displaced again by a slighter cause, than what was first necessary to produce the accident. This tendency, indeed, increases with every new dis- placement. Such diseases, as destroy the cartilages, liga- ments, and articular cavities, of the bones, may- give rise to a dislocation. The knee is some- times, but not frequently, partially luxated in consequence of a white swelling; the thigh is often dislocated in consequence of the acetabu- lum and ligaments being destroyed by what is commonly named the disease of the hip-joint. Such dislocations are termed spontaneous. In the anatomical collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital, there is a preparation of a knee, dis- located in consequence of ulceration, and anchv- losed, the leg forming a right angle with the femur directly forwards. (See A. Cooper’s Surg. Essays, Part 1, p. 11.) An enarthrosjs joint can only be dislocated by external violence, a blow, a fall, or the action of the muscles, when the axis of the bone is in a direction, more or less oblique, with respect to the surface, with which it is articulated. Any external force may occasion a dislocation (generally incomplete) in the ginglymoid joints ; but, in the ball and socket articulations, the action of the muscles constantly has a share in pro- ducing the accident. So, when a person falls on his elbow, while his arm is raised outwards from his side, the force, thus applied, will undoubtedly contribute very much to push the head of the os brachii out of the glenoid cavity, at the lower and internal part. Still, the sudden action of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, which always takes place from the alarm, will also aid in pulling downward and inward the head of the bone. Under certain circumstances, the vio- lent action of the muscles alone may produce a dislocation, without the conjoint operation of any outward force. But, when the patient is aware in time of the violence, which is about to operate, and his, muscles are prepared for resistance, a dis- location cannot be produced without the greatest difficulty, (A. Cooper, op. cit. p• 15.) unless the posture of the member at the moment be such as to render the action of the strongest muscles con- ducive to the displacement, instead ol preventive of it, as is frequently the case in luxations ol the shoulder. Dislocations arc constantly attended with more A A 2