1026 TETANUS. Dr. Reid, in the Edinburgh Medical and Sur- gical Journal for July 1815, remarks, that, on removing the dressing, the wound was covered with a darkish unhealthy-looking matter, and that he had seen this change the forerunner of tetanus in two other instances. A torpor of the intestines has generally been observed to precede, as well as accompany the disease, and Boyer, in particular, enumerates an obstinate constipation amongst the predisposing causes. (Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 1, p. 287.) Mr. Abernethy also informs us, that in four cases, where he inquired into the state of the bowels, the evacuations were not like feces; and he proposes as a question, in investigating the cause, what is the state of the bowels, between the infliction of the injury, and the appearance of this dreadful malady? (Abernethy's Surgical Worl;s, Vol. 1, p. 104.) Dr. Parry thinks the velocity of the circulation an useful criterion of the danger of the disease, and ob- serves, that, if the pulse be not above 100 or 1 10, by the fourth, or fifth day, the patient almost always recovers; but that if it be quickened early, the disease mostly proves fatal, and yet there are a few instances of recovery, where the pulse has risen to 120 on the first day. Baron Larrey remarks, that, when the perspiration, which so often attends the disease, is sym- ptomatic, it begins upon the head and extremi- ties; but, that when it is critical, it occurs over the chest and the abdomen. (Memoires dc Chir. Militaire, T.i,p 256.) It must be confessed, however, that, in many cases, perspiration flows very freely, without bringing relief. (Rees’s Cyclopaedia, art. Tetanus.) I next proceed to consider the treatment of tetanus, a subject of infinite difficulty, because the disease frequently baffles every mode of practice, and, in certain instances, gets well under the'employment of the very same remedies, which decidedly fail in other similar cases of the disorder. Every plan has occasionally succeeded, and every plan has still more frequently mis- carried. The great difficulty, therefore, is to ascertain, amongst numerous discordant ac- counts, what practice is found on the whole to be attended with the least ill-success ? For, in the present state of our knowledge, the most credulous practitioner will not flatter himself with the supposition, that any effectual remedy for tetanus has yet been discovered. As, how- ever, tetanus was regarded by Hippocrates and the ancients as certainly mortal, and it does not always prove so in modern times, it seems allow- able to conclude that the recoveries, which now happen, must be ascribed to improvements in practice. This reflection should lead us not to give up the subject as hopeless; but to re- double our exertions for the discovery of a more successful method of treatment, and if possible, of some new medicine, possessing more specific power over the disorder. As it is justly observed by a well-informed writer, when we reflect upon the obscurity, which involves both the ratio sympiomatum, and the proximate cause of tetanic affections, we need not wonder, that the practice in these disorders should still be entirely empirical. The indication of cure, which is generally applicable in all dis- eases, namely, the removal of the exciting causes, 1.-. V.., o rom-liid condition, udiirh is the consequence of causes, that in general have ceased to act, or which it is not in our power either to remove or control. In those cases, where we could suppose local irritation to be still operating, the most effectual method of counteracting its effects on the system, would obviously be to intercept all communication be- tween the seat of the irritation and die sensorium. If, however, the disease has already established itself, and the severe symptoms have c-onie on, it does not appear, that this would succeed in arresting the course of the disorder. Experience has but too fully shewn, that the amputation of the limb, from the injury of which the tetanus has arisen, will very seldom procure even a mitigation of the symptoms, if performed after a certain period from their first appearance. (Rees's Cyclopaedia, art. Tetanus.) Baron Larrey has been the greatest modern advocate for the performance of amputation in cases where tetanus depends upon a wound of the extremities; but, the facts which he has ad- duced in its favour are not numerous, and he limits his recommendation of the measure chiefly to chronic cases, and extends it to no others, except on the very first accession of the symptoms. “ The equally unexpected and entire success (observes Larrey), obtained, by the amputation of the injured limb, in the person of an officer attacked with chronic tetanus, leads me to pro- pose the question, ‘whether, in this disorder, occasioned by a wound of some part of the ex- tremities, it would not be better to amputate the injured limb immediately the symptoms of tetanus commence, rather than expect from the resources of nature, and from very uncertain remedies, a cure which so seldom happens ? “ If tetanus is chronic, as is sometimes ob- served, amputation may be done at every period of the disorder, provided a choice be made of the time, when there is an intermission of the sym- ptoms. The operation would not answer so well in acute tetanus, if the disease were advanced, and the muscles to be divided were strongly con- tracted and rigid, as I have observed at the siege of Acre in a soldier, who was seized with tetanus, in consequence of a gunshot wound of the left elbow.” (Mem. de Chir. Militaire. T.l,p. 20'2.) . . . Larrey did, indeed, try amputation in a fev instances of acute tetanus. In the case last cited, the symptoms were already considerably advanced, when the experiment of amputating the arm was made; yet, says Larrey, the opera- tion was followed by considerable ease. The symptoms recurred, however, a few hours after- wards, and proved fatal on the third day. I# another example, this gentleman repeated the experiment, though acute tetanus had begun. The operation is described as having stopped |H the symptoms, as it were, by enchantment; the patient even passed twelve hours in perfect ease; but, being exposed to the damp cold air, the disorder returned, and carried him off. (See M6m. dc Chirurgie Militaire, T. 1, p. 2t>3-" 269.) The Baron also records some cases favour of amputation at the commencement c* tetanus from wounds, and especially for the re- lief of the disease in the chronic form. _ J J - . . a. A 13. III r I ift i Hi r i ! t I i i | i ts t h ! U ; ii ; "( t‘> T li t w ■ Ik kV t i 11 t h; I (i).