543 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. ,*er the brim of the pelvis. Boy, from the im- ediate danger, protracted suffering and ulti- ate want of success, which he had observed to How this kind of injury, urges strenuously the •oprietv of immediate amputation: Mr. Guth- >’s opinion, with regard to the dangerous nature these injuries, and the advantages to be de- ■ed in them from immediate amputation, coin- 'es in every respect with those of Schmucker and ,y. He observes, that, those, whose thigh-bone i been fractured in its upper part by a musket- tlet, generally die with great suffering, before . end of the sixth, or eighth week; and that t even of those escape, in whom that bone has ■n fractured in its middle part. Of the few, ora we saw, who had survived gun-shot frac- es in the upper part of the thigh bone in Bel- m, scarcely any one could be said to be in a ourable condition. In all the limbs were much traded, distorted, and swollen, and abscesses , formed round and in the neighbourhood of fractured extremities of the bones. In some :ances, these abscesses had extended down the »h ; but, more frequently, they passed up- ds, and occupied the region ot the hip-joint buttocks. In several instances, in which in- ons had been made for the evacuation of ter, the fractured and exfoliating extremities [ he bones sometimes comminuted, and some- 1 is forming the whole cylinder, could be felt :, rough, and extensively separated from the parts, which surrounded them. In other in- ces, these extremities were partially inclosed (epositions of new bone, which, from the itity thrown out, seemed to be present in a jid degree. It was obvious, that, in all of 2 cases, several months would be required the reunion of the fractured extremities; in some, much pain and misery were still i endured from the processes of suppuration, ration, exfoliation, and ejection of dead ; that in some cases, the patients were in- ing great danger from hectic fever, and from hoea; that the ultimate recovery in most of i was doubtful, and that of those, in whom ■night take place, there was but little pro- ity, that any would be able to use their >! The sight of these cases (says Dr. Thom- made a deep impression upon my mind, and ended to increase my conviction, that this all others, the class of injuries, in which •diate amputation is most indispensably re- d.” (See Report of Observations made t Military Hospitals in Belgium, p. 254— . Thomson adds, that what has been said 2 danger of fractures, produced by musket- s, in the upper part of the femur, is true in J. greater degree of those, which have their a the neck, or head of that bone. In such | ces, Dr. Thomson joins the generality of | :n army surgeons in strongly recommending j| :ation at the hip-joint; a subject, of which already spoken. (See Amputation.) I n-shot wounds, in which amputation may be deferred. ay3 Baron Larrcv, it be possible to specify ses, in which amputation ought to be im- telv performed, it is impossible to deter- mine a priori those, which will require the ope- ration subsequently. One gun-shot wound, for example, will be cured by ordinary treatment, while, another, that is at first less severe, will afterwards render amputation indispensable, whether this be owing to the patient’s bad con- stitution, or the febrile complaints, which are in- duced. However this may be, the safe rule for fulfilling the indication, that presents itself, is to amputate consecutively only in circumstances, in which, every endeavour to save the limb is manifestly in vain. Upon this point, Larrey’s doctrine differs from that of Faure. The latter practitioner admits cases, which he terms cases of the second kina, in which he delays amputation, not with any hope of saving the limb, but, in order to let the first symptoms sub- side. The operation, done between the fifteenth and twentieth day, appears to him less danger- ous, than when performed immediately after the receipt of the injury. At the above period, ac- cording to M. Faure, the commotion, occa- sioned by the gun-shot injury, is dispelled; the patient can reconcile himself to amputation, the mere mention of which fills the pusillanimous with terror in a greater or lesser degree; the debility of the individual is no objection ; and it is laid down as an axiom “ that the consequences of every amputation, done in the first instance, are in general extremely dangerous.” In sup- port of this theory. M Faure adduces ten cases of gun-shot injuries, in which after the battle of Fontenoy, the operation was delayed, in order that it might afterwards be performed with more success : a plan, which, according to the author, proved completely successful. (See Pm de l'Acad, de Chirurgie, Tom. 8. Bait, in 1 '2ma.) This division of the cases for amputation into two classes, not consistent with nature, Larrey conceives, has been the cause of a great deal of harm. Very often the partisans of M. Faure have not dared to resort in the first instance to amputation, thedangers ofwhich they exaggerate; while, on other occasions, they amputate, con- secutively, without any success. Larrey, after arguing that the effects of com- motion, instead of increasing, gradually diminish and disappear after the operation, ventures into some hypothesis about the proximate cause of the ill effects of commotion, which, as being wild and unsatisfactory, I shall not here repeat. Baron Larrey will not even admit, that th<^ patient’s alarm ought to be a reason for post- poning the operation; because -the patient, just after the accident, will be much less afraid of the Tisk, which he has to encounter, than at the expiration of the first four and twenty hours, when he has had time to reflect upon the conse- quences of the injury, or of amputation; a re- mark, made by the illustrious Pare. “ Experience, agreeing with my theory, (says Baron Larrey) has proved both to the army and navy surgeons, that the bad symptoms which soon follow such gun-shot injuries, as must oc- casion the loss of a limb, are much more to be dreaded, than those of immediate amputation. Out of a vast number of the wounded, who suf- fered amputation in the course of the first four and twenty hours after the memorable naval battle of the first of June, 1 794, a very few lost their lives. This fact has been attested by sc-