826 MORTIFICATION. the cataplasma carbonis, or the stale beer, fer- menting, hemlock, or carrot poultices. When the process, by which a slough is detached, is somewhat advanced, L have seen a weak solution oi the extract of opium in water put under the emollient poultice, along the line of separation, give considerable ease, at the same time, that it seemed to promote the changes, by which the dead parts were loosened. In the gangrene, produced by pressure and weakness in persons, who are compelled by dis- eases and injuries to lie for weeks and months in one posture, the mode of treatment is a matter ot extreme importance, and frequently makes the difference of life, or death, to the poor suf- ferer. This affection usually has its seat in parts, which are but thinly covered with muscular flesh. It occurs towards the latter stages of long con- tinued febrile diseases, as after typhus, or hectic fever, attended with tedious suppurations; or even without these fevers, as in paralysis, and in very bad compound fractures. However, as Dr. Thomson observes, there are two forms of dis- ease, arising from pressure, which have not al- ways been accurately discriminated. One of these is the preceding sort of sloughing; the other is a chafed, excoriated, and ulcerated state of the parts. Sometimes uncleanliness tends to cause this sort of mortification, that is, when the urine wets the patient’s clothes. When this is the case, such irritation must be prevented by every pos- sible means. If the skin be excoriated and broken, the powder of tutty, or lapis calamina- ris, should be sprinkled over the part; or if an ointment be required, says Dr. Thomson, those, which contain zinc or lead, are the best. But, whpn the ulceration threatens to extend, these remedies are to be laid aside, and an emollient, hemlock, carrot, or fermenting poultice used. (P. 580.) I have seen in the irritable state of such ulceration, the solution of opium under a common linseed poultice do more good than any other application. But, no topical remedies will in any of these cases avail, unless the chief cause of the disorder be removed. This is to be effected by change of position, and laying pillows and cushions of the softest materials in convenient places under the patient; not directly under the disease itself, but in situations, where they will tend to raise the parts affected from the contact of the bed- ding. A circular hollow pillow will often ac- complish this important object; but, when pos- sible, an entire change of posture is to be pre- ferred. When sphacelus succeeds to gangrene from pressure, I have often seen camphorated spirit applied ; but never with decided advantage. A common emollient poultice, and in very bad cases, the topical use of the solution of opium along the living margin, are the means, upon which I place most reliance, care being taken to improve the general health, without which grand indication, neither the removal of the pressure, nor the virtues of any dressings, will answer. Dr. Thomson speaks most highly of the ferment- ing poultice, which I believe to be in these cases an excellent application. He confesses, how- ever, that he has sometimes found it too sti- mulating, and been obliged to substitute the simple emollient, carrot, or turnip poultice.— (/’. 580.) When mortification arises from cold, every sort of warm emollient application must be avoid- ed, and cold water, or even snow, or ice, em- ployed. See Chilblains. The local treatment of the mortification ol the toes and feet, as described by Mr. Pott, has been already considered, and is that to which my observations incline me to give the preference. The gangrenous affection of the pudenda, to which female children are liable, was successfully treated by Mr. K. Wood by applying the liquor plumbi aeet dilutus in a tepid state, and bread poultices made with the same lotion. As soon as the ulcers became clean, they were dressed with the unguentum zinci. (See Med- Chir. Trans. Vol. 7.) Other cases, which also ended well, have been dressed with lint, dipped in cam- phorated spirit, and covered with a poultice ; or, at first, poultices made with the opium lotion, and, after the separation of the sloughs, the ulcer was dressed with port wine and decoction of bark in equal proportions. In some cases, how- ever, mild stimuli proved injurious. (•James on Inflammation, p. '/SO.) The old practitioners used to give vent to putrid matter, by making deep scarijicalious in the integuments. The majority of authors who have treated of mortification have very much insisted upon this plan, which they recommend in all cases. They even advise the incisions to be made down to the sound parts, in order to facilitate the application of topical stimulants, and to favour the*operation of the supposed -an- tiseptic qualities of these dressings. But, with the exception of cases, in which the gangrenous parts lie under an aponeurosis, or others in which the integuments, which have escaped destruction, cover a mixture of matter and sloughy cellular substance, either in consequence of foregoing inflammation, or any other cause, such as the extravasation of urine in the scrotum, all scarifi- cations, which penetrate as far as the living parts, are often productive of the most serious mis- chief, instead of advantage. Such incisions cannot be practised, without occasioning a great deal of pain, and producing inflammation, which often makes the mortification spread still further. But, as parts, which are in a complete state of sphacelus, are absolutely extraneous substances, in regard to those which still retain their vitality, all such portion of them as is already loose should be removed. By lessening the size of the putrid mass, the fetor is diminished, an outlet tpay sometimes be made for the escape of a great deal of putrid discharge, which, being confined, might have a bad effect on the neighbouring living parts; and the latter are enabled to free them- selves more easily from the rest of the sloughs. The too common practice of accelerating, with a cutting instrument, the separation of the mor- tified parts, previously to the completion of the process, by which nature breaks the connexion between them and the living flesh, in general ought to be strongly reprobated, as causing un- necessary pain, and irritation, and creating the risk of a renewal of the sloughing. As far as my experience goes, gangrenous phage'doena is the only instance, in which it seems useful to remove the sloughs, before they are loose, so as