*024 TETANUS. belly is costive; but, ns we have hardly nnv ac- counts, excepting of those cases, in which opiates have bean largely employed, it is uncertain, whether the costivcriess has been the effect of the opiates or of the disease. In several in- stances of this disease, a miliary eruption has appeared upon the skin, but whether this be a symptom of the disease, or the effect of a certain treatment of it, is undetermined. In the mean while, it has not been observed to denote either safety or danger, or to have any effect in chan- ging the course of the distemper.”—[First Lines of the Pract ice of Physic, Vol. ?,.) According to Baron Larrey, the opisthotonos is not so often observed in Egypt as the empros- thotonos, and the experience of this gentleman taught him, that the former was the most rapidly fatal. We must not adopt, however, his curious opinion, that the violent extension of the ver- tebrae of the neck, and the manner, in which the head is thrown back, cause strong compression of the spinal marrow, and a permanent con- traction of the larynx and pharynx, (Mem. dc Chirurgie M Hit air e, T. 1, p. 240.) since this sort of compression, if it did not at once destroy the patient, would at any rate paralize most of the muscles, and instantly stop their extraordinary contraction. This experienced writer notices how much the nerves of the neck and throat seem generally to be affected on the invasion of this disease. The consequent contraction of the muscles of these parts, he says, is soon attended with difficulty of deglutition and respiration. The patients then experience, if not a dread of liquids, at least a great aversion to them, which often prevents the administration of internal remedies; and if the wound is out of reach of the interference of art, the patient is doomed to undergo the train of sufferings attendant on this cruel and terrible disorder. Nothing can surmount the obstacles, which present themselves in the oesophagus. The introduction of an elastic gum catheter into this canal, through the nostrils, is followed by con- vulsions and suffocation. “ I have tried this means (says Larrey) on the person of M. Navailh, a surgeon of the second class, who died of a locked-jaw, brought on by a wound of the face, accompanied with a comminuted fracture of the bones of the nose, and part of the left orbit. “ In the examination of the bodies of persons dead of tetanus, I have found the pharynx and oesophagus much contracted, and their internal membrane red, inflamed, and covered with a viscid reddish mucus. “ Hydrophobia, hysteria, and several other nervous diseases, likewise produce their chief effects upon these organs, and the result appears to be the same. So, I have just remarked, when tetanus is arrived at its worst degree, the patients have a great aversion to liquids, and, if they are forced to swallow' them, immediate convulsions are excited. This circumstance was particularly observed in M. Navailh. —(il/ew?. dc Chi- mrgic Militairc, T. I, p. 247, 248.) Sometimes tetanic affections deviate from their ordinary course and nature. The most singular of these anomalies is recorded by Sir Gilbert Blune; it is a case, in which tetanus prevailed to a verv considerable extent, without any de- gree of pain. The spasms were accompanied with a tingling sensation,,which was even rather agreeable than distressing. The case, however, terminated fatally; but, to the last, no pain was experienced. In two examples, mentioned by the same author, the spasms affected only the side of the body, in which the wound was si- tuated. The dissection of patients, who have died of tetanus, has thrown no light upon the nature of this fatal disorder. Sometimes, slight effusions are found within the cranium; but, in general, no morbid appearance whatever can be detected in the head. There is always more or less of an inflammatory appearance in the oesophagus and in the villous coat of the stomach about the cardia. But those, w'ho are conversant with dis- sections, must be well aware, that these appear- ances are common to a great number of diseases, and are uniformly met with in every case of rapid, ■or violent death. Besides the redness and in- creased vascularity of these parts, Baron Larrey, as I have already stated, found the pharynx and oesophagus much contracted, and covered with a viscid reddish mucus. He also found numerous lumbrici in the bowels of the several patients who died—(See Mem. de Chir. Militaire, T. 3, 2>. 287.) This, how'ever, could only be an ac- cidental complication, and not a cause. In several cases, Dr. M'Arthur found the in- testines much inflamed, and in two of them a j'ellow, waxy fluid, of a peculiar offensive smell, covered their internal surface; hut, whether the inflammation was primary, or only a consequence of the pressure of the abdominal muscles, which contract so violently' in this disease, he is unable to decide.—(See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 475, and Rees’s Cyclopaedia, art. Tetanus.') Dr. Lionel Chalmers, of Charles Town, South Carolina, states, that when the disease forms very quickly, and invades the unfortunate persons with the whole train of its mischievous symptoms, in a few hours, the danger is proportioned to the rapidity of the attack, and that the patients thus seized, generally die in 24, 36, or 48 hours, and very rarely survive the third day'. But, when the disease is less acute, few are lost after the ninth, or eleventh. ^See Med. Obs. and I up .t Vol. 1, p. 92, 95.) • From the valuable report of Sir James Mac- grigor, it appears, that several hundreds of cases of tetanus occurred in our army', during the late campaigns in Spain and Portugal. The disease J was observed to come on at uncertain periods j after the receipt of the local injury; but, it ter- minated on the second, third, and fourth days, ' and even as late as the seventeenth and twentieth day'; though it was usually not protracted beyond . the eighth. (Med■ Chir. Trans. Vol. 6,/>. 353.) •—I had a patient, however, who lingered in tire military hospital at Oudenbosoh five weeks, with chronic tetanus, before he died. This happened in they'ear 1814, soon after the assault on Bergen* op-Zoom, where the patient had been wounded, and suffered amputation of the thigh. Although tetanus is a disease, which has been observed, in almost all parts of the world, ex- perience proves, that its frequency is much the greatest in warm climates, and especially in the hot seasons of those climates. It is also more common in marshy situations, and countries I it)