CAR ,ey have commonly recommended applying di- ectly upon it the strongest stimulants, as the nct'ure of aloes or myrrh, a solution of the ar- entum nitratum, or diluted muriatic acid. For the destruction of caries, the actual and otential cauteries, and cutting instruments, have :en employed. On the continent, and particularly in France, ey still adhere to the plan of touching carious irts of bones with the actual cautery', after bring- ir them fairly into view by the previous use of e knife. It is thought, that the burning iron acts changing the caries into a necrosis, irritating e subjacent sound parts, and exciting that action the vessels, by which the dead or diseased part ’ the bones must be thrown off. Such is the ictrine inculcated by Boyer. Mr. Hey succeeded in cutting away a carious :rt of the tibia. He began the operation by dis- cing off the granulations of flesh, which had isen from the bone, and then sawed out, by .eans of a circular headed saw, a wedge of the aia, two inches in length. The removal of this irtion brought into view a caries of the cancelli, most as extensive as the piece already removed. Hth different trephines, suited to the breadth of e caries, Mr. Hey removed the diseased cancelli ' the bone, quite through to the opposite la- ella. As the caries extended in various diree- >ns, it was not possible to remove the whole of with a trephine, without removing also a large rtion of the sound part of the bone, which Mr. ey wished to avoid. By the assistance, there- re, of a strong sharp-pointed knife, he pursued e caries in every direction, until every part was <en away, which had an unsound appearance, le wound was simply dressed with dry lint; the lole surface was speedily covered with good anulations; and a complete cure was obtained, thout any exfoliation. Mr. Hey concludes this subject, as follows : I have treated some other cases of caries of s tibia in the same manner, and with equal suc- ss. W here the extent of the caries is not so eat as to prevent a complete removal of the irbid part, this method is extremely useful, d far superior to the use of the potential or .tial cautery. “ The trephine is not wanted, where the can- li of the bone are not affected with the caries, ie diseased parts of the lamella may be removed :h gouges or small chisels. Granulations of jh will then arise from the sound parts of the fie, and become united with the integuments, ich ought to be preserved as far as is possible.” rnvl. Ohs. on Surgery.') If surgeons are often censurable for inert mea- es in a variety of diseases, I believe, they can- be blamed for the same kind of inactivity in treatment of carie3, where they run, perhaps, ) the opposite extreme, arid, too confident in ir knowledge of the causes and nature of the ?ase, they often make themselves too officious, l rather disturb, than promote the salutary cesses of nature. (See J. L. Petit, Truitt tics /. dtsOs, Pans, 1741. A.Monro, inP.dinb.Metl. nys, Vnl. 5. Weidmann de Nicrosi Ossium, menj. 1793, Cullisen's Systemu Cliirurgicc •jiermr, Vol. 1, p. 493. Buyer's Truitt dts wdxes Chir. T. 3, p. 453, rt scq. Paris, 1814. therand't Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 134, edit. 4. CAS 281 Paris, 1815. Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 4, p. 78, S\C. J. Wilson on the Structure, Physiology, and Diseases of the Bones, &;c. p. 263, 8vo. Lond. 1820. A good description of the different kinds of caries is yet a desideratum.) CASTRATION. The operation of removing a testicle. For an account of the cases rendering this measure necessary, see 'Testicle, Discuses of. The manner of operating is as follows : The pa- tient being laid on a table of convenient height, the integuments covering the spermatic vessels in the groin, are to be divided. This incision should begin as nearly as possible, opposite to the opening in the abdomilial muscle, and should be continued a good way down the scrotum. The manner of beginning this incision is dif- ferently described by writers; some of them ad- vising that the skin be held up by an assistant; others that the knife be used perpendicularly in this as in other parts. The latter mode is gene- rally preferred by English surgeons. The length of the division is a more important consideration. A small wound will indeed serve to lay bare the spermatic chord ; but it will not permit the ope- rator to do what is necessary afterwards with dex- terity, or facility; and as the scrotum must, first or last, be divided nearly to the bottom, it had betterbedoneat first. The spermatic chord, thus laid bare, is to be freed from its surrounding membranous connexions; and then the operator, with his finger and thumb, separating the blood- vessels from the vas deferens, must pass a liga- ture between them, and having tied the former only, must cut through the whole chord, at a quarter or half an inch distance from the said li- gature, according as the state of the process and testicle will admit. This done ; he is then, with the same knife, with which he has performed the former part of the operation, to dissect the tes- ticle out from its connexion with the scrotum: the loose texture of the connecting cellular sub- stance, the previous separation of the testicle , from the spermatic chord, and the help of an as- sistant to hold up the lips of the wound, will enable him to do this with very little pain to the patient, and great facility to himself. If any con- siderable artery bleeds in the scrotum, it is to be tied. (Putt.) Mr. S. Sharp once castrated a man, whose testicle weighed above three pounds, and some of the vessels were so exceedingly varicous and di- lated, as nearly to equal the size of the humeral artery. (Opeiatir,ns of Surgery, chap. 10.) Desault first divides the chord, and, holding its upper end between the index finger and thumb of his left hand, he then takes up the arteries with a pair of forceps, and they are immediately tied, by an assistant. (GEut/rcs Chir. par Bichat, T. 2.) The spermatic artery, and any scrotal vessels, which require to be taken up, should be tied with fine silk ligatures, as recommended by my friend Mr. Lawrence. (See Med. Clin . Trans. Vol. 6, V• 197.) Pott used to fill the cavity of the wound with lint; but Desault, and all the modern surgeons of this country, bring the edges of the wound to- gether, and endeavour to heal as much of it as possible by the first intention. Some, with this view, use sutures and sticking plaster; others, only the latter, aided with compresses and a T