FRACTURES. 473 little probability that it could ever unite, it being ruption. In about six weeks after the operation now six months since the accident happened. the callus began to form, and is now quite firm. “ Amputation was therefore proposed as the The arm is as long as the other, but somewhat only method of relief: but I could not give my smaller, in consequence of such long continued consent to it, for as the boy was young, and had bandages; he daily acquires strength in it, and a good constitution, it was hardly possible that will soon be fit to be discharged.” (Cases in it'could be owing to any fault in tiie solids or Surgery, p. 69, &fc.) fluids, but that either nature was disappointed in In another instance of a broken tibia, which her work by frequent friction, while the callus continued disunited an extraordinary length of was forming, or rather, that the oblique ends of time, Mr. White practised an operation, sorae- the bone, being sharp, had divided a part of a what similar to the foregoing one, with complete muscle, and some portion of it had probably in- success. He made a longitudinal incision, about sinuated itself betwixt the two ends of the bone, four inches in length, through the integuments, preventing their union. Whichever of these which covered the fracture. By the application mmht be the case, I was of opinion,’’ continues of a trephine, he cut off the upper end of the Mr. White, “ that he might be relieved by the bone, and, as the lower end could not be easily following operation, viz. by making a longitudinal sawn oft’, he contented himself with scraping it. incision down to the bone, by bringing out one In the course of the subsequent treatment, he of the ends of it, which might be done with great had occasion to take offi with the cutting-pincers, ease as the arm was flexible, and cutting it off, a small angle of tibia, and to touch the lower part either by the saw or cutting-pincers, then bv bringing out the other, and cutting oft that like- wise, and afterwards by replacing them end to end, and treating the whole as a compound frac- ture. “ The objections, made by the other gentle- men concerned, to this proposal, were, first, the danger of wounding the humeral artery by the knife. Secondly, the laceration of the artery by bringing out the ends of the bones. And, thirdly, that we had no authority for such an operation. As to the first, that was easily obviated, by making the incision on the side of the arm, opposite to the humeral artery. The place of election ap- peared to me to be at the external and lower edge of the deltoid muscle, as the fracture was very near to the insertion of that muscle into the humerus; the danger of wounding the vessel not only being by that means avoided, but, after the operation, while the patient was confined to his bed, the matter would be prevented from lodging, and the wound be easily come at, to renew the dressings. The second objection will not appear to be very great, when we consider that in compound fractures the bone is frequently thrust with great violence through the integu- ments, and seldom attended with laceration of any considerable artery; and as this would be done with great caution, that danger would appear very trifling. The third and last objection is no more than a general one to all improvements. “ This method which I have been proposing,” says Mr. White, “ was at last resolved upon, and I assisted in the operation, which was per- formed, by a gentleman of great abilities in his profession, on January 3, in the present year (1760.) The patient did not lose above a spoonful of blood in the operation, though the tourniquet was not made use of. When the operation and dressings were finished, the limb was placed in a fracture-box, contrived on pur- pose, the lad confined to his bed, and the rest of the treatment was nothing different from that of a compound fracture. “ The wound was nearly healed in a fort- night’s time, when an erysipelas came on, and spread itself all over the arm, attended with some degree of swelling; this by fomentations, and the antiphlogistic method, soon went off, and the cure proceeded happily, without any other inter- of the bone with the butter of antimony, as well as to introduce the same caustic between the ex- tremities of the fracture, in order to destroy a substance, which intervened. A trifling exfolia- tion followed. In twelve weeks the bone was firmly united. (Op. cit. p. 81, 82.) Besides Mr. White’s cases, there are now some other instances, upon record, where the operation, which he first proposed, has succeeded. In the year 1813, Langenbeck operated upon a humerus in the foregoing manner, and the result was perfectly successful. The ununited fracture was situated at the insertion of the deltoid. (JVeue Bibl. B, 1, p. 95.) Mr. Rowlands, of Chester, by a similar operation cured a fractured thigh, which had lost all disposition to unite. (See Mtd. Chir. Trans. Vet. 2, p. 47.) Viguerie, surgeon to the Hotel Dieu, at Toulouse, has also practised Mr. White’s operation with success. (See Larrey, Mem. tie Chir. Milituire, T. 2, p. 132.) On the other hand, the operation has fre- quently failed. In the instance, in which I saw it executed on the humerus by Mr. Long, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, it did not answer, though the ends of the bone were most fairly sawn off, and the case treated with particular care and skill.,, Boyer states, that he once per- formed the same operation in a similar case; but, that it had not the desired effect; (Trade des Mai. Chir. T 3, p. 110.) Dr. Physic, of New York, when he was a student in 1785, saw this proceeding unsuccessfully adopted in a case, where the humerus remained disunited. (See Medical Repository, Vol. 1, New York, 1804.) Besides these examples, I have heard of others, in which Mr. Cline and other practitioners have tried the experiment with no better success. What is still more discouraging, the operation has some- times proved fatal. (Richerund, Nnsogi\ Chir. T. 3, p. 39. Edit■ 2. Larrey, Mdm. de Chi- rurgie Militaire, T. 2, p. 132.) The difficulties, the danger, and the frequent ill success of the foregoing operation, rendered another mode of treatment extremely desirable, when Dr. Physic, of New York, suggested the plau of introducing a seton through the preter-. natural joint, with a view of exciting inflamma- tion, $nd bringing about an union of the bone. This suggestion promises to be a considerable