1061 TUMOlt. was so successful, that, at the beginning of the ' hir. Trans. Vol. 7,p. 112, Sfc. Vol. 8, p. 532.) bleeding was very inconsiderable. The event m ■* * Respecting the foregoing severe operation, lepth of its attachments may Jjc conceived, vhen ii is known, that the whole parotid gland vas involved in it. For the purpose of obvia- ng all danger of hemorrhage, Mr. Goodlad be- an with tying the carotid artery. The nature f the operation will be best understood by ad- erting to the appearances afterwards presented y the wound. “ The whole sterno-mastoid iusole was exposed, and its fibres dissected i-lean, except about half an inch from its insertion ito the clavicle. The wound extended back- ards from behind the mastoid process to the •achea anteriorly, but became narrower in the : irection of the muscle at the lower part of the ; -cclc. The submaxillary gland was exposed, l^.ad about one fifth of its substance, not appear- ig healthy, was removed. The digastric and ie greater portion of the mylo-hyoideus were | xposed. The ramus of the jaw was only 'jvered by periosteum, except where covered y the masseter muscle, part of which, not ap- earing healthy, was dissected away. The whole f the condyloid process of that bone was laid ire in the same manner, and behind it the ptery- oid muscles were also exposed. The membrane f the cheek was only covered by a cellular sub- :ance, which did not appear healthy ; but, suf- cient skin was saved to cover the zygoma. "he parotid gland was entirely removed.” 'his enormous wound healed in ten weeks; i ut unfortunately the cure was not permanent; e disease returned, and fifteen months after the tion, the poor woman died. (See Med. aany surgeons may be inclined to doubt the •opriety of tying the carotid artery, as a pre- iratory step, and, indeed, it is positively con- : emned in an anonymous note attached to the xive case, simple temporary pressure on the tposed vessel being represented as preferable, t appears to me, however, that Mr. Goodlad’s lethod was justifiable, and on the whole the best, ecause the application of the ligature to the ca- otid not only removed the dangers of hemor- •age during the operation, but obviated them fterwards, and no doubt lessened the necessity •r a prodigious number of ligatures, for vessels, Inch would otherwise have poured out a profuse uantity of blood. Nay, the hemorrhage is so profuse from the lain branches of the external carotid, and mere ressure so uncertain of always commanding the ow of blood, that the patient may actually die om sudden loss of blood, as uearly happened in nother very interesting case of removal of a .rge tumor involving also the parotid gland, and mnected with the transverse process of the at- • i*» the basis of the skull, the meatus auditorius, lastoid process, and angle of the jaw. The perator, Mr. Carmichael, in order to complete ie dissection, was obliged to divide the trunk of 1C facial artery: “instantly (says he) an alarm- ’s gush of blood, which evidently came from a •rge vessel, followed the division ; and (he dan- 'cr appeared the more imminent as the press- which Mr. Todd applied, with all the orcc he cnuld\excrt upon the carotid trunic, was 'ctually incapable of repressing the torrent. I wa* not a moment to be lost. Mr. Colies lunged a dry sponge to the bottom of the wound, vessel, while tumor, till I and firmly pressed on the bleeding I mode a horizontal section of the arrived at the cavities occupied by the sponge, with the view of exposing as quickly as possible the mouth of the bleeding vessel. This was ac- complished in sufficient time to save the patient’s life.” Mr. Carmichael, at the conclusion of the history, remarks, that, if he were called upon to perform such an Operation again, he would, in the first instance, pass a ligature under the ca- rotid trunk, which might be tightened, or not, as occasion should require. The case, here spoken of, had a successful termination. One remarkable consequence was a paralysis of one sido of the face, ^brought on by the division of the trunk of the portio dura iri the operation. (See Trans, of the King's and Queen's College of Physicians, Vol. 2, p. 101, 8vo. Dublin, 1618.) The next instance, which I shall notice, of the removal of an enormously enlarged parotid gland, is that lately recorded by Klein, the eminent operating surgeon at Stuttgardt. The patient was a woman of seventy, and the swelling ex- tended from the ear to the shoulder. In the operation, all the branches of the facial nerve were divided ; a piece of the masseter was left hang- ing; the external carotid artery and par va- gum were left quite bare; the dissected sterno- mastoid lay on one side; and the temporal, ex- ternal maxillary, and auricular arteries were of course divided, along with several arteries of the neck, yet, the largest of these being tied, the third week, the wound was entirely healed. The same distinguished surgeon also removed a fatty tumor, extending from the buttodc to the ham, and measuring three feet (me inch in length, and two feet six inches in circumfe- rence. Klein undertook its removal, on the sup- position, that it was an encysted tumor lying above the fascia lata; but, it turned out to be a steatoma coming from beneath it, and reaching to the thigh-bone, and in every direction amongst the muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels of the thigh. At length, partly with the fingers, and partly with the knife, the fatty mass was separated from all its important connexions. Several ves- sels were tied, and amongst them the profunda femoris. However, not more than a pound of blood was lost. The tumor, after its removal, weighed 27lb. and three quarters. The patient, a woman 44 years of age, went on very well for eight days; but, on the ninth, she was constantly complaining of uneasiness in the foot of the af- fected limb; her pulse became weak and inter- mitting; and she sunk in the most unexpected manner. (Sec Journ.fiir Chirurgic hcrausgc- geben von D. L. Grarfc und D. P. F. Walthcr, B. 1p. 10G, S[C. 8vo. Berlin, 1820 ; or Quar- terly Journal of Foreign Medicine, <£c. Vol. 2, p. 373, $C.) A question may be entertained, whether, in some morbid enlargements of the parotid gland, and parts extending deeply about the throat, it would not sometimes be better to be content with simply tying the carotid artery-, and trying whe- ther stopping this large supply of blood to the diseased parts, would not be followed by an absorp- tion of the tumor ? Some facts, appertaining to