PORlt I GO. y3o debted to Richter, who has very ably treated of polypi in his Ansfangsg. dcr Wundarm. B. 1, A ap. 21. See also ,7. B. dc Lams- weerde, Historia Naturalis Malornm Uteri, 1 -mo. Lugd. 1700. P. G. Schachcr, Pro- gramma dc Poly pis, Lips. 1721. C. F. Knit schmid, Dc Molct scirrhosa in utcro inverso extirpates, Jena, 1754. C. Schunch, Dc po- ly po post febrem Epidemicum ex utcro egresso. Wittemb. 1739. A. Levret, Ohs. sur la Cure radicalc dc plusicurs Polypes de la Matricn, dc la Gorge, ct du Nez. 8v;>. Paris, 17-19. M. G. Ilcrbiniaux, Traite smfflivcrs Accouchc- mens labor ieux, ct sur les polypes dc la Ma- tricc, <$v\ 2 Tom. 8vo. Bruxelles, I 782-179-1. E. Grainger, Medical and Surgical Remarks, including a description of a simple and effectual ■method of removing polypi from the uterus, <S(C. 8vo. Lond. 1815. Denmans Plates of a Polypus, with an Inversion of the Uterus, and of a Polypus of the Uterus, fol. 1801. F. A. Walter, Annotationcs Academicce, 4to. Bcrol. 1786. W. Newnham, An Essay on the Sym- ptoms, cfc. of Inversio Uteri, with a History of the successful Extirpation of that Organ, 8vo. Land. 1818. Pott's Remarks on the Poly- pus of the Ncse. Whately's Two Cases of extraordinary Polypi, 8vo. Lond. 1805. John Bell’s Principles of Surgery, Vol. 3, Part 1. Encyclopedia Methodique, Art. Polype. J. G. Haase, De Narium Morbis Comment. Lips. 1794—1797. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. I, p. 528—538, %c. Edit. 1809. Callisen’s Sy- stema Chirurgiae Hodicrncc, Vol. 2, p. 169, fyc. J. L. Deschamps, Traite. des Maladies des Fosses Nasalcs, ct de leur Sinus, 8vo. Paris, 1804. Nauche, des Mai. de 1'Uterus, Svc. Paris, 1816. S. Schmeider, Schediasma de Polypo (Esophagi vermifermi rarissimo, S(c. Delitii, 1717. See Hallcri Disp. Morb. 7, 595. PORRIGO. TINEA CAPITIS, (called also Ringworm of the Scalp, Scald-head, cjfc.) if, according to Dr. Bateman’s excellent account of the subject, a contagious disease, principally characterized by an eruption of the pustules de- denominated favi and achorcs. The achor is defined to be a small acuminated pustule, con- taining a straw-coloured matter, which has the appearance and nearly the consistence of honey, and is succeeded by a thin brown, or yellowish scab. The favus is larger, flatter, and not acu- minated, and contains a more viscid matter; its base, which is often irregular, is slightly in- flamed; and it is succeeded by a yellow, semi- transparent and sometimes cellular scab, like a honey-comb; whence it has obtained its name. (See Bateman's Synopsis of Cutaneous Dis- eases, p. xxiv. and 159, Edit. 3.) This intelligent physician has noticed six spe- cies of Porrigo, of which my limits will allow me to give only a very abridged description. I. The Porrigo larvalis, or crusta laclca of authors, begins with an eruption of numerous minute whitish achorcs, upon a red surface. These pustules soon break, and discharge a viscid fluid, which concretes into thin yellow- ish or greenish scabs. The disease increases in extent, and the scabs become thicker and larger, until the forehead and cheeks, even the whole face, excepting the eyelids and nose, be- come enveloped, as it were, in a mask, whence the epithet larvalis. Small patches of the dis- ease sometimes appear about the neck and breast, and on the extremities; and the ears and scalp are usually affected in the progress of the case. The infant suffers more or less from the itching and irritation. When the discharge is copious and acrid, Dr. Bateman recommends the "part to be washed two or three times a day with tepid milk and water, and the application of the uu- guentum zinci alone, or mixed with the saturnine cerate. The latter, he says, will be useful for the relief of the excoriation left after the cessa- tion of the discharge. Small doses of the sub- muriate of mercury, either alone, or in combina- tion with a testaceous powder, will also expedite the cure. If the bowels are very irritable, the hydrargyrus cum creta, or the cinereous oxide, may be exhibited instead of the calomel. When the health is good, soda, precipitated sulphur, and the testacea, will lessen the local inflamma- tion and discharge. When the irritation is removed, and the crusts are dry and falling off, the unguentum bydrarg. nitrat. much diluted, may be used, and the de- coction of bark, or the vinum ferri, prescribed. 2. Porrigo furfur ans begins with an eruption of small achorcs: The excoriation is slight,ami the discharge, which is not abundant, soon concretes, and falls offin innumerable thin laminated scabs. At irregular periods fresh pustules arise, and follow the course of the preceding. The com- plaint is confined to the scalp, which is affected with itching and soreness; and the hair, which partly falls off, becomes tbin, less strong, and sometimes of a lighter colour than natural. This species of porrigo occurs principally in adults, and it is sometimes attended with swelling of the glands in the neck. Dr. Bateman observes, that the treatment requires the hair to be closely cut off the scalp. The branny scabs are then to be gently washed away with some mild soap and water twice a day; and an oil silk cap should be worn. In the beginning, when the surface is moist, tender and inflamed, the zinc ointment, or one made with Jij. of the eocculus indicus and 3j. of lard. Afterwards, when the scalp is diy and free from irritation, it may be washed with common soft soap and water; or with a mixture of equal parts of soft soap and unguentum sul- phuris. Then the unguentum hydrargyri ni- trnti, the ung. hydrarg. nitrico oxydi, the tar and sulphur ointments, or the ung. aeidi nitrosi of the Kdinb. Pharm. may be employed. These last stimulant applications, however, must be left off, if the inflammation and discharge return. 3. Porrigo lupinosa is characterized accord- ing to Dr. Bateman by tlrv, circular, yellowish white scabs, set deeply in the skin, with elevated edges, and a central depression, and somewhat resembling, on the whole, the seeds of lupines. These scabs are formed upon separate clusters of achorcs, and attain on the scalp the size of a sixpence; hut, when on the extremities, they are not more than two lines in diameter. In the treatment of the porrigo lupinosa the scabs are first to be gently washed off with some soap and water, and the scalp is to be shaved, if it he the part affected. When the scabs are difficult of removal, the liquor potassac, or a weak lotion of muriatic acid may be used for