AMPUTATION. (JH the support of the skin and muscles. The roller was then carried down in a circular direction to the extremity of the stump, not so tight as to press rudely or forcibly, but so as to give an easv support to the parts. 1 he skin and muscles were now placed over the bone, in such a direction, that the wound ap- peared only as a line across the face of the stump, with the angles at each side, from which points, the ligatures were left out, as their vicinity to either angle might direct. The skii^was easily secured in this posture by long slips of linen, or lint of the breadth of about two fingers, spread with cerate, or any cooling ointment. If the skin did not easily meet, strips of sticking plaster were preferred. These were applied from below up- wards, across the face of the stump, and over them a soft tow-pledget and compress of linen; the whole being retained with the many-tailed bandage, and two tails placed perpendicularly, in order to retain the dressings upon the face of the stump. Mr. Alanson censured the plan of raising the end of the stump far from the surface of the bed with pillows, as the posterior muscles were re- tracted by it; and he considered it best to raise the stump about half a hand’s breadth from the surface of the bed, by which means the muscles were put in an easy relaxed position. The many- tailed bandage Mr. Alanson found much more convenient than the woollen cap, frequently used in former times to support the dressings ; and he observes, that though this seems well calculated to answer that purpose, if not put on with particular care, the skin is liable to be drawn backwards from the face of the stump ; nor can the wound be dressed, without first lifting up the stump to remove the cap. (See Alanson’s Practical Obs. on Amputation, 8yo. Loud. 1779.) The chief peculiarity of Alanson’s method of operating, namely the mode, in which he recom- mends the oblique division of the muscles to be performed, did not, however, meet with universal approbation, and his extensive dissection of the skin from the muscles was complained of as ex- cessively painful. The formation of a conical wound, by following Alanson’s directions, was regarded by several as impracticable. (See Mai- ten’s Paradoiieen., B. ]. S. 88; Loefler, Bey- trage 1. No. 7; Wardenburg, Briefe Bines An- tes 2 B. p. 20 ; Richter, Anfmgsgr. vol. 7 ; Graefe, Nnrmen, fyc.p. 8; Hey, Pract. Obs.') In my opinion, there can be no doubt of the truth of some of the criticisms made by these, and some other writers, on the impossibility of making a wound, with a regular conical cavity, by observ- ing the directions given by Alanson ; for, if the knife be carried round the member with its edge turned obliquely upwards towards the bone, it will pass spirally, and, of course, the end of the incision will be considerably higher, than the be- ginning. But, though Alanson probably never did himself exactly what he has stated, lam sure, that his proposition of making an oblique division of the muscles all round the member, has been the source of great improvement in amputations in general, and is what is usually aimed at by all the best modern surgeons. It is true, they do not actually perform the oblique incision all round the limb, by one stroke, or revolution of the knife round the bone, as Alanson says that lie did; but, they accomplish their purpose by repeated, distinct, and suitable applications of the edge of the instrument, turned obliquely up- wards towards the bone, or bones. Amongst others, Mynors found fault with some of Alanson’s instructions, and thought every desideratum might be more certainly at- tained by saving skin enough, and then cutting through the muscles. The first incision, how- ever, he directed obliquely upwards through the integuments, while.they were drawn up by an assistant, and he then cut down to the bone. (P> 'net. Thoughts on Amputation, 8ro. Birmingh. 1783.) Sprengel considers My nors’s plan merely as a revival of Celsus’s method, as it had in view only the preservation of skin, and not the forma- tion of a fleshy cushion. (Gtschiclile dcr Chir. B. 1. p. 426.) Kirkland endeavoured to improve Mynors’s plan, by cutting off a piece of skin at each angle of the stump, so as to keep the integuments from being thrown into folds; and, in opposition "to Pott, he defended the sentiments of Bilguer, concerning the successful management of despe- rate cases, without amputation. (On the present State of Surgery, p. 273, and Thoughts on Am- putation, &rn. Loud. 1780.) B. Bell used to operate very much in the same way as Mynors; and, when it seemed advan- tageous to make a flap, he did not disapprove of the plans suggested by Ravaton, Verduin, and Alanson. (Syst. of Surgery.) An interesting paper on amputation was some years ago published by Loder; its chief purport was to defend Alanson’s method, with some slight modifications. (Chir. und Medic. Beobacht. B. 1. p. 20. 8vo. 1794.) However, the alterations suggested by Loder, do not seem to Graefe at all adequate to the removal of the difficulties, with which the mode of cutting the flesh exactlv after Alanson’s directions is complicated. (Nor- menjur die Abl. grosscrer Glicdmussen, p. 8, 4to. Berlin 1812.) The removal of limbs, without bloodshed, pro- posed by Guido di Cauliaco in the 14th century, has met with modern defenders in J. Wrabetz and W. G. Plouquet. J. Wrabetz, with a ligature which was daily made tighter, took off an arm above the elbow. In the fissure, he sprinkled a styptic powder. On the fourth day, the flesh was severed down to the bone, which was sawn through. (Gesrhichte eines olive Messer ubgesetz- ten Oberarms.8oo.Freyb. 1782.) Plouquet thought the plan suited to emaciated timid subjects; but not well adapted to the leg, or forearm. ( Von der unblutigen Abnehmung tier Glieder, 8uo. Tub. 1786.) Some other modes of doing flap-amputations, and in particular, the suggestions and improve- ments, made by Hey, Chopart, Dupuytren, Lar- rey, and other modern practitioners, will be no- ticed in the description of the amputation of par- ticular members. In the mean time, I shall con- clude this section, with mentioning the laudable attempts made at different periods, to render the patient less sensible of the agony produced by the removal of a limb. Theodoricus, as we have said, administered for this purpose opium and hemlock, and though he was imitated by many of the an- cient surgeons, few moderns have deemed the practice worthy of being continued. Guido made