EMPYEMA. 417 talis. If inflammation occurs in the anterior me- diastinum, and ends in suppuration, the abscess may possibly burst into neither of the cavities of the chest* but, make its way outward, after rendering the sternum carious, as happened in the example, recorded by Van Swicten. (Com- ment. mi Boerhaavts 895f/i Aphorism.) But, though collections of matter in the ante- rior mediastinum are influenced by the general law, whereby abscesses in general tend to the surface of the body, and though it be true, that *hey rarely burst inwardly into the cavity of the pleura, the contrary may happen, as is proved by the 9th case in La Martiniere’s memoir on the operation of trepanning the sternum. Here the event was the more extraordinary, as there was already an external opening in the abscess. Externa! injuries, such as the perforation of the sternum with a sword, (Vanderucl, Ohs. 29, (Cent. 1.) a contusion, a fracture, or a caries of his bone, may give rise to an abscess in the interior mediastinum. Galen has recorded a memorable example, where the abscess was the .'onsequence of a wound of the forepart of the :hest. After the injury, which was in the re- gion of the sternum, seemed quite well, an ab- cess formed in the same situation, and being ipened healed up. The part, however, soon in- lamed and suppurated again. The abscess could lot now be cured. A consultation was held, at .’hich Galen attended. As the sternum was ob- iously carious, and the pulsation of the heart as visible, every one was afraid of undertaking le treatment of the case, since, it was con- lived, that it would be necessary to open the mrax itself. Galen, however, engaged to ma- rge the treatment, without making any such ening, and he expressed his opinion, that he iou!d be able to effect a cure. Not finding the me so extensively diseased, as was apprehended, even indulged considerable hopes of success, fter the removal of a portion of the bone, the art was quite exposed (as is alleged), by rea- n of the pericardium having been destroyed by 3 previous disease. After the operation, the tient experienced a speedy recovery. J. L. Petit met with an abscess in the anterior diastinum, in consequence of agun-shotwound the situation of the sternum. The injury had ;n merely dressed with some digestive appli- ion; no dilatation, nor any particular exa- ltation of the wound had been made. The pa- nt, after being to all appearances quite well, 1 joining his regiment again, was soon taken ill h irregular sliiverings, and other febrile synt- ms. Petit probed the wound, and found the ie affected. As there was a difficulty of ithing, he suspected an abscess either in the be, or behind the sternup, and, consequently, proposed laying the bone bare, and applying a >an. This operation gave vent to some sani- matter, and, as soon as the inner part of the num was perforated, a quantity of pus was dis- ced. The patient was relieved, and afterwards 'vered (Petit ,'1'ruUe des Mal.Clur.'l'. 1 ,; .80.) mother instance, in which an abscess behind sternum was cured by making a perforation >at bone opposite the lower part of the cavity, »bich the matter collected, is recorded by De lartiniece. (Mem. dc l’Arad, dc Cliir■ T. 12, I Unw.) When, in consequence of inflammation, an ab- scess forms deeply in the substance of the lungs, the pus more easily makes its way into the air- cells, and tends towards the branchiae, than to- wards the surface of the lungs. In this case, the patient spits up purulent matter. When the opening, by which the abscess has burst inter- nally, is large, and the pus escapes from it in con- siderable quantity at a time, the patient is in some danger of being suffocated. However, if the opening be not immoderately large, and the pus, which is effused, be not too copious, a re- covery may ensue. Abscesses in the substance of the diaphragm, and collections of matter in the liver, may also be discharged by the pus being coughed up from the trachea, when the parts af- fected become connected with the lungs hy adhe- sions, and the abscesses of the liver are situated on its convex surface. When the collection of matter in the liver occupies any other situation, the abscess frequent]}'- makes its way into the colon, and the pus is discharged with the stools. Several cases of this kind are related by authors: Sabatier has recorded two in his Medecine Ope- ratcire; Le Dran makes mention of others; and Pemberton, in bis book on the Diseases of the Abdominal Viscera, p. 36, relates additional in- stances of a similar nature. I shall now proceed to the consideration of empyema strictly so called. Sometimes it is a consequence of a penetrating wound of the chest; occasionally it proceeds from the bursting of one or more vomica;; in a few examples, it arises from the particular way, in which abscesses of the liver burst; (Journ. de Med. T. 3. /;. 47. Morgagni, Epist. 30, art. 4.) but, in the greater number of instances, it originates from pleuritic inflammation, especially that of the chronic kind. (Boijer, Trail6 das Mat Ckir. T. 7, p. 35‘J.) Empyema very rarely takes place in both sides of the chest, but is almost always limited to one cavity of the pleura. According to Baron Boyer, when empyema arises from thoracic inflammation, pleuritis, or pneumonia, the symptoms, characterizing it, are always preceded by those of the disease, of which the effusion of pus upon the diaphragm is the effect. Inquiry must, therefore, be made whe- ther the patient has pleurisy, or peripneumony, the symptoms of which have lasted longer than a fortnight; and whether, after a transient amendment, there have been frequent shiverings, followed by a low continued fever, with nightly exacerbations. Now, these first circumstances justify the belief, that the inflammatory disorder has terminated in suppuration, and that the sym- ptoms afterwards experienced depend upon effu- sion of matter in the ciiest Some of these arise from the mechanical action of the pus upon the lungs, heart, and parietes of tiie chest, and belong also to other effusions in the thorax; the rest may be said to be the effects of ulceration and suppuration of the parts on the animal economy, and, therefore, particularly belong to empyema. First, of the common symptoms, respiration is difficult, sliot-t, and frequent; the patient suffers great oppression, and experiences a sense of suf- focation, and of weight upon the diaphragm, lie cannot move about, even for a short time, without being quite out of breath, and threatened with syncope. lie lias an almost incessant, and