LITHOTOMY. 791 (says M. Sanson), made me easily perceive, that by dividing the sphiucter ani and some of the rectum near the root of the penis, I should expose, not only the apex of the prostate gland, but a more or less considerable portion of this body, and that I should then be able to penetrate into' the cavity of the bladder, either at the neck through the prostate, or at its posterior part.’’ It was the latter method, which M. Sanson first tried upon the dead subject. The body was placed in the position usually chosen for the common ways of operating, and a staff was in- troduced, and held perpendicularly by an assist- ant. A bistoury, with its blade kept Hat on the left lore-finger, was now introduced into the rec- tum, and the edge being turned upwards, M. Sanson, with one stroke, in the direction of the raphe, cut the sphincter ani, and the lower part of the rectum. The bottom ol the prostate gland being thus exposed, the finger was next passed beyond its solid substance, where the statT was readily perceptible through the thin pa- rietes of the rectum and bladder. While the latter instrument was steadily maintained in its original position, M. Sanson here introduced the knife into the bladder, and, following the groove of the staffi made an incision about an inch in length. At this instant, the flow of urine from the wound indicated that the bladder had had an opening made in it. On examination, the parts divided were found to he the sphincter, the lower part of the rectum, the back part of the prostate, and the adjacent portion of the blad- der. Another mode, contemplated by M. Sauson, was, after dividing the sphincter ani, to cut the termination of the membranous part of the urethra along the groove of the staff held perpendicularly, and by the same guidance to extend the incision in the median line through the prostate gland, and neck of the bladder. In Barbantini’s case, the calculus was so large, that it made a considerable prominence in the rectum, where it was felt extending across from one tuberosity of the ischium to the other. On account of its size, its extraction hv the lateral operation was considered impracticable, and, as it was not thought advisable or easy to break sucli a mass, and Barbantini regarded the high operation as more difficult and uncertain in its results, than the common method, it was deter- mined to operate through the rectum. The attempt was delayed some days, by the impos- sibility ofintroducing efl'ectually the staff, which was stopped at its entrance into the bladder by the calculus. But, as a grooved instrument was judged to be an essential guide, Barbantini caused a long director to be constructed, which he thought might be passed more conveniently, than the staff, into the first incision. He also provided himself with long forceps, the blades of which were very broad, and admitted of being put separately over the stone. A staff having been introduced, the operation was done after M. Sanson’s manner, except that a wooden gor- get was introduced for the protection of the rectum, and the prostate gland was left undi- vided at the forepart of the wound. When the bladder had been opened at the lower part of the rectum, as far as the groove of the stair served as a guide, the latter instrument was withdrawn, and the long director introduced into the in- cision, which, under its guidance, was then en * larged to the necessary extent. With some dif- ficulty the stone was then extracted, and found to weigh nine ounces and a half. For about eighteen days the urine passed away by the anus, only a few drops occasionally issuing from the urethra. As this circumstance gave Barbantini some uneasiness, he introduced his finger into the bladder, the inner surface of which, near the wound, he found covered with encysted calculous matter, which was very adherent. At length, however, it was gradually removed, witli a portion of new- formed membrane, by attempts repeated with the finger several days in succession. A catheter was then introduced, through which, at first, al- most the whole of the urine flowed. But, the tube being afterwards obstructed with mucus, it became necessary frequently to clear it by inject- ing tepid water. The cure now seemed to pro- ceed with rapidity. When the feces were hard, none of them passed into the bladder; but, when they were liquid, a part of them were voided with the urine through the tube, though without any inconvenience. At the end of fifty days, scarcely any urine passed out of the wound ; the patient, therefore, went into the country, where, in the course of another month, the cure was complete. About a year ago, I saw an example, in which a calculus had made its way through the pro- static portion of the urethra, and formed, with the swelling of the soft parts, a considerable promi- nence within the rectum. If the patient had been under my care, I should certainly have made an incision directly on the tumor just within the sphincter, by which means the calcu- lus might have been removed witli great eas'e, and less risk than dividing the prostate. How- ever, the latter method was followed, and the case had a very favourable termination. In this instance, as the sound, in its passage, only occa- sionally touched a small point of the calculus, which approached the urethra, and this just at the instant before its entrance into the cavity of the bladder, the exact nature of the case was for some time a matter of doubt to several skilful surgeons who were consulted. Respecting the merits of lithotomy through the rectum, 1 think the practice well deserving the consideration of the profession, where the caculus is known be- forehand to be of unusual size. It must be less painful, I apprehend, than the high operation, and, perhaps, more easy of execution. But it is difficult, with the scanty experience before us, to offer any very decided opinion, whether, on the whole, it ought to be preferred either to the.high or the lateral operation, by which last, stones of larger size, than that extracted by Barbantini, have been successfully taken out by Mr. Mayo, of Winchester, Dr. Klein, of Stuttgard, and others. The most serious consideration is, whether a large incision, forming a communi- cation between the bladder and rectum, will gene- rally heal up, as well, or even more favourably, than in Barbantini’,s case. This is a point, which can only be decided by further observation. A smaller wound in thp same part, it appears, is soon cured; for, in the instance, reported by Sanson, the boy was quite well on the twentieth day. For further information, consult Sanson, Dcs Moycns dc Parvcnir d la lresrie par lo