ANEURISM. 125 the patients died from such a cause during opera- tions for popliteal aneurisms. (See Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, p. SOf). London MW. Re- view, ii‘d. 2. p. 240. mid Burns on Diseases of the Henri, p. 226.) Were the co-existence of the internal aneurism known, the operation for the other tumour would be improper, and the surgeon should limit the treatment to palliative means. Experience confirms, however, that the cir- cumstance of there being two aneurisms in the limbs should not prevent the operation, which is to be practised at separate periods. Facts in support of this statement are quoted by Mr. Hodgson. (P. 310.) OF THE SPONTANEOUS CURE, AND GENERAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISMS. The obliteration of the sac, in consequence of a deposition of lamellated coagulum in its cavity, as Mr. Hodgson has well described, is the mode by which the spontaneous cure of aneurism is in most instances effected. The blood soon deposits upon the inner surface of the sac a stra- tum of coagulum ; and successive depositions of the fibrous part of the blood by degrees lessen the cavity of the tumour. At length, the sac becomes entirely filled with this substance, and the depo- • s:tion of it generally continues in the artery on both sides of the sac as far as the giving off of the next large branches. The circulation through the vessel is thus prevented; the blood is con- veyed by collateral channels; and another pro- cess is instituted, whereby the bulk of the tumour is removed. (Hodgson on the D senses of Arteries, A'fr. p. 114.) Such desirable increase of the co- iflgulated blood in the sac is indicated by the t .umour becoming more solid, and its pulsation nweak, or ceasing altogether. Another mode in which the disease is sponta- " teously cured, happens as follows : an aneurism 3 sometimes deeply attacked with inflammation rnd gangrene; a dense, compact, bloody coagu- um is formed within the vessel, shutting up its ;anal, and completely interrupting the course of he blood into the sac. Hence the sphacelation which follows, and the bursting of the integu- »nents and aneurismal sac, are never accompanied [ >y a fatal hemorrhage; and the patient is cured •'if the gangrene and aneurism, if he has strength ■ufficient to bear the derangement of the health necessarily attendant on so considerable an attack : >f inflammation and gangrene. When a patient dies of hemorrhage, after the | mortification of an aneurism, it is because only a xiortion of the integuments and sac has-sloughed, 1 without the root of the aneurism, and especially ■' he arterial trunk, being similarly affected. For ases illustrative of this statement, refer to fodgsnn on Diseases of Arteries, p. 103, Ac. A third way, in which an aneurism may be •pontaneously cured, is by the tumor compressing I he artery above, so as to produce adhesion of its 1 ides, and obliteration of its cavity. This mode (f cure must be uncommon: it has been adverted ,0 *>y Sir E. Home, Scarpa, Dr. John Thomson, nd others; but some facts, tending to prove it, 'a/e been collected by Mr. Hodgson, and arc 'ublished in his useful work. (Sec p. 107, <3fc.) “ Hie surgical treatment of aneurism (says '"s gentleman), consists in the obliteration of the cavity of the artery communicating with the sac, so that the ingress of the blood into the latter is either entirely prevented, or the stream which passes through it is supplied only by anastomosing branches, and consequently the force of the cir- culation is so much diminished, that the increase of the tumour is prevented, and the deposition of coagulum is promoted. By the absorption of its contents, and the gradual contraction of the sac, the cure is ultimately accomplished. The blood is conveyed to the parts, which it is destined to supply,' by collateral vessels, some of which being gradually enlarged, constitute permanent chan- nels for the circulation. The obliteration of the artery is effected/ by the excitement of such a degree of inflammation in its coats, as shall pro- duce adhesion of its side. These objects have been attempted by the compression or the liga- ture of the artery. The latter method constitutes the operation for aneurism.” (P. 165.) According to Scarpa, a complete cure of an aneurism cannot he effected, in whatever part of the body the tumor is situated, unless the artery, from which the aneurism is derived, he, by nature or art, obliterated and converted into a perfectly solid, ligamentous substance, for a certain extent above and below the place of the ulceration, lacera- tion, or wound. When aneurisms are cured by compression, the cure is never accomplished, as some have supposed, by the pressure strengthen- ing the dilated proper coats of the artery, and restoring, especially to the muscular coat, the power of propelling the blood along the tube of the artery, as it did previously to its supposed dilatation. M. Petit, and Foubert, thought, that the natural curative process some- times consisted in a species of clot, which closed the laceration, ulceration, or wound of the artery, and resisted the impulse of the blood, so as still to preserve the continuity of the coats of the artery, and the pervious state of the vessel. Haller imbibed a similar sentiment, from experi- ments made on frogs. If the foregoing statement of Scarpa, respect- ing the obliteration of the tube of the adjacent portion of the artery, when an aneurism is cured, had been delivered merely as what is the most common course of things, it would not have been incorrect; but when he denies the possibility of the calibre of the vessel being ever preserved, whether the disease be cured by art or nature, he is exceeding the bounds of accuracy. Notwithstanding aneurisms cannot in general be cured, as Scarpa has explained, unless the artery be rendered impervious for some extent above and below the tumour, I believe we must make an exception to this observation with re- spect to the few aneurisms of the aorta (especially those of its arch), which, according to the records of surgery, have been diminished and cured by Valsalva’s treatment. In such examples, we are not to suppose that the aorta becomes obliterated at its very beginning; but that the diminution of the quantity of circulating blood, the reduced impetus of this fluid, the lessened distention of tl*e aneurismal sac, the general weakness induced in the constitution, and the increased activity of the lymphatic system, ali necessary effects o Valsalva’s method, have combined to bring about a partial subsidence of the tumour. “ It is n .common opinion (says Mr. Ilodg-