HEMORRHAGE. 591 the ligatures immediately after their application, has been applied, the end of the artery inflames. In both instances, the complete obliteration of and the wounded internal surface of its canal the canal of the artery was the consequence of being kept in close contact by the ligature, ad- tke operation. (See Practical Observations in heres, and converts this portion of the artery Surgery, p• 103-) He has also tried this into an impervious, and, at first, slightly conical method, as modified by Mr. Travers, in an ope- sac. It is to the effused lymph that the base of ration, which he performed for a popliteal aneu- the coagulum adheres, when found to be adherent, rism in a sailor, in Nov. 1813. A double ligature Lymph is also effused between the coats of the was passed under the femoral artery. The liga- tures were tied with loops, or slip knots, about a quarter of an inch of the vessel being left undi- vided between them. All that now remained of the pulsation in the tumor, was a slight undu- latory motion. Nearly six hours having elapsed from the application of the ligatures, the wound was carefully opened, and the ligatures untied and removed, without the slightest disturbance of the vessel In less than half a minute afterwards, the artery became distended with blood, and the pulsations in the tumor were as strong as they had been before the operation. Mr. Hutchison then applied two fresh ligatures; hemorrhage afterwards came on ; amputation was performed, and the patient died. (See Practical Observa- tions in Surgery, p. 102, <|-c.) Now, as Mr. Hutchison chose to apply other ligatures, on find- ing that the pulsation returned, the above case only proves, that the artery is not obliterated in aboutsix hours, and we areleftin the dark respect- ing the grand question, namely, whether the vessel would have become obliterated by the effusion of coagulating lymph and the adhesive inflamma- tion, notwithstanding the return of circulation through it. As for the hemorrhage which oc- curred, I think it might have been expected, con- sidering the disturbance and irritation, which the artery must have sustained in the proceedings absolutely necessary' for the application of not less than four ligatures, and the removal of two of them. According to my ideas, only one liga- ture ought to have been used, and none of the artery detached. We also have no description of the sort of ligatures which were employed; an essential piece of information in forming a judg- ment of the merits of the preceding method. The application,removal, and reapplication ofligatures are not consistent with the wise principles incul- cated by the late Dr. Jones, and have in more instances than that recorded by Mr. Hutchison, brought on ulceration of the artery and hemor- rhage. For further information on the question concerning the propriety of withdrawing the liga- ture previously to its detachment, see 129, &c. o f this Dictionary. From Dr. Jones’s experiments, it appears, that the first effects of a ligature upon an artery- are, a complete division of its internal and middle coats, an apposition of its w-ounded surfaces, and an obstruction to the circulation of the blood through its canal. There must be a small quan- tity of stagnant blood, just within the extremity of the artery; but this does not, in every in- stance, immediately form a coagulum, capable of filling up the canal of the artery. In most cases, only a slender coagulum is formed at first, which gradually becomes larger by successive co- agulations of the blood; and hence, the coagu- lum is always at first of a tapering form, with its base at the extremity of the artery. But, as Dr. Jones remarks, the formation of this eoagu- him is not material; for soon after the ligature artery, and among the parts surrounding its ex- tremity. In a little- time, the ligature makes the part, on which it is directly applied, ulcerate; and, acting as a tent, a small aperture is formed in the layer of lymph effused over the artery. Through this aperture, a small quantity of pus is discharged, as long as the ligature remains ; and, finally, the ligature itself also escapes, and the little cavity, which it has occasioned, granulates and fills up, and the external wound heals, lea- ving the cellular substance a little beyond the end of the artery-, much thickened and indurated. (Jones, 7>. 159, 161.) In short, when an artery is properly tied, the following are the effects, as enumerated by Dr. Jones: 1. To cut through the internal and middle coats of the artery, and to bring the wounded surfaces into perfect apposition. 2. To occasion a determination of blood to the collateral branches. 3. To allow of the formation of a coagulum of blood just within the artery, provided a collateral branch is not very near the ligature. It merits particular notice, however, that though the nearness of a collateral branch prevents the formation of the coagulum, it cannot always pre- vent the completion of the adhesive process. In the experiments, made on the arteries of horses and dogs by Mr. Travers, the ligature was pur- posely applied close to large collateral branches, yet the vessels were safely obliterated. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. G,p. 658, 660.) 4. To excite inflammation on the internal and middle coats of the artery, by- having cut them through, and, consequently, to give rise to an effusion of lymph, by which the wounded sur- faces are united, and the canal is rendered im- pervious ; to produce a simultaneous inflamma- tion on the corresponding external surface of the artery, by- which it becomes very much thick- ened with effused lymph; and, at the same time, from the exposure and inevitable wounding of the surrounding parts, to occasion inflammation in them, and an effusion of lymph, which covers the artery, and forms the surface of the wound. 5. To produce ulceration in the part of the artery, around which the ligature is immediately- applied, viz. its external coat. 6. To produce indirectly a complete oblitera- tion, not only of the canal of the artery-, but even of the artery itself, to the collateral branches on both sides of the part which has been tied. 7. To give rise to an enlargement of the col- lateral branches. (Jones, p. 163, 164.) Every part of an artery is organized in a similar manner to the other soft parts, and its coats are susceptible of the same process of adhe- sion, ulceration, &c. as the other parts are. Hence, the precautions, taken to secure the ad- hesion of other parts, should be observed for t he same purpose, with regard to an artery.. 1 he vessel is put in a state to admit ol adhesion by