720 IRIS. pupil tends, in some degree, to occupy its former destroyed by ulceration. This is a point, f„. j] situation in the centre of the cornea; a fact, also which the most experienced men differ so much i noticed by Richter. . . that it is difficult to reconcile their statement*! [I According to Scarpa, the recision of the pro- Dr. Vetch seems to have full reliance upop the if* trusion with scissars can only be practised with accuracy of the accounts of a protrusion of the U success, when the iris bus contracted a firm ad- membrane of the aqueous humour. (Treatise on j hesion to the internal edge of the wound, or ul- Diseases of the. Eye,p. 54, §c.) Mr. Travers cer of the cornea ; and, more especially, in that inclines to Beer’s view of the subject, and details (| ancient prolapsus of the iris, in which the project- reasons for doubting, that, the vesicle is a di- !■ ing portion of the iris has become with time al- stinct texture: “ its appearance corresponds ac- j. most insensible, hard, and callous, with its base curatelv to that of the innermost lamella of the :< strangulated between the edges of the wound, or cornea.’’ (,Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, ;| ulcer of the cornea, and besides being adherent p. 116.) to them, having also a slender pedicle. Scarpa It is, says Scarpa, a transparent vesicle, filled , indeed has seen an incarcerated one fall off of with an aqueous fluid, and composed of a very fl itself. delicate membrane, projecting from a wound, or ill In such circumstances, the recision of the old ulcer of the cornea, much in the same way as tfij prolapsus of the iris is not attended with the the iris does under similar circumstances. Scarpa Ilf least danger; for, after removing with a stroke has several times seen this transparent vesicle Ilf of the scissars, that prominent portion of the iris, full of water, elongating itself beyond the cornea, fr which has already contracted internal adhesions shortly after the operation for the extraction of iff to the ulcerated margin of the cornea, so as to the cataract, and sometimes, also, in consequence III reduce it to a level with the external edges of the of an ulcer of the cornea, especially after rescind- ■ | ulcer, there is no hazard of renewing the effusion ing a prolapsed portion of the iris" of the aqueous humour, or giving an opportunity The generality of oculists believe that this for another piece of the iris to he protruded, little transparent tumor consists of the delicate, I One, or two applications of the argentum nitra- elastic, diaphanous membrane, which invests the | turn suffice afterwards for the production of gra- inner surface of the cornea, and is described by j nulations on the ulcer of the cornea, and the for- Descemet and Demours. “ As soon as the mem- j mation of a cicatrix. But, it is not so, in the brane lining the cornea (they say) is exposed by j treatment of the recent prolapsus of the iris, the wound, or ulcer of the latter, and the delicate ‘, which has no adhesions to the internal edges of pellicle can no longer resist the impulse of the If the wound, or ulcer of the cornea. humours pressing behind it, it is necessitated to If In four subjects recently affected with prolap- yield gradually, to become elongated, and to » sus of the iris, after Scarpa had removed, with a project from the wound, or ulcer of the cornea, ■ pair of convex edged scissars, a portion of that exactly in the form of a pellucid vesicle.” But, p* membrane projecting beyond the cornea, of about says Scarpa, how remote this theory is from the |i-.; the size of a fly’s head, he found, on the ensuing truth, must be manifest: 1. The delicate and .11 day, that a new portion of the iris, not less than elastic pellicle, described by Descemet and i M the first, had made its way through the ulcer of Demours, is not separable by any artifice from a; the cornea, and that the pupil was very much the inner surface of the cornea, except near j contracted, and drawn considerably further to- where the cornea and sclerotica unite. Since wards the ulcer of the cornea. These circum- these protruded vesicles make their appearance stances took place, notwithstanding the wound in practice at every point of the cornea, and j was touched immediately afterwards with the ar- even at its very centre, where the above pellicle gentum nitratum. Hence Scarpa apprehends, is certainly neither separable, nor distinct from j that if he were ever to divide such a little tumor the compact texture of the cornea; it may at least again, it would reappear, and always with an ad- be asserted, that the tunic of the aqueous humour ditional protrusion of the iris, and a further dis- does not in every instance constitute the trans- i i tortion of the pupil. The advantage of caustic parent vesicle in question. 2. It is a well known 111 in the recent sensible prolapsus of the iris; and fact, that this vesicular, pellucid prolapsus happens li the use of scissars only in old callous cases; more frequently after the extraction of the cata- , t agree also with the directions given both by Beer, ract, than any other occasion. In this case, since ||i and Mr. Travers. (Lclirc von (leu Angcnkr. the tunic of the aqueous humour lias certainly l|< B. 2, p. (iS ; and Synopsis, P. 280.) been divided to afford an exit to the crystalline, If There is a particular species of prolapsus, much no one can he of opinion, that the transparent Ji less frequent, indeed, than that of the iris; but, vesicle, which protrudes from the cornea after I)'- which does occur, and, in Scarpa’s opinion, is this operation, ought to he attributed to the : very improperly termed by modern oculists, “pro- distention and protrusion of the tunic of the ; t,- lapsns of the tunic of the aqueous humour.” aqueous humour. 8. If, in cases of ulcers of the j; (Janin, Pettier, Guerin, Gleizc^fyc.) Neither do cornea, the transparent vesicle should sometimes ii his sentiments upon this subject agree with those appear after the recision of the prolapsus of the . i of Beer, whose explanation of the nature of the iris, it is obvious, that if it consisted of the tunic i i case is given at p. 319 of this Dictionary. We of the aqueous humour, it ought invariably to j shall there see, that it is a case, which he terms appear before the prolapsus of the iris. 4. Should ceratocelc and which he thinks arises from a the surgeon remove the protruded vesicle to a yielding of the inner layers of the cornea, in con- level with the cornea by a stroke of the scissars, j sequence of the outer ones not having united, a small quantity of limpid water is seen to ooze And in his second vol. p. 59, he has given a out, at the moment when the incision is made, description of the same kind of disease from the without any part of the aqueous humour escaping support of the outer layers of the cornea being from the anterior chamber. This inconvenience j