HI The common inguinal hernia, which first pro- trudes at the inner opening of the inguinal canal, and which has the epigastric artery on the inner side of its neck, has been named by Hesselbach external, while the less common instance, in winch the viscera burst directly through the aponeuroses of the transverse and internal oblique muscles, and pass directly out of the abdominal ring, leaving the epigastric artery on the outer side of the neck of the sac, is distinguished by the epithet internal. (Ana!. Chir. Abhandlung tiler den Ursprnng der Lcistcnbruch, Wurzb. 1806'.) “ The inguinal congenital hernia (says Scarpa) cannot be divided into external and in- ternal: it is evident, that it must always be external, since the neck of the tunica vaginalis invariably corresponds to the point, at which the spermatic cord passes under the margin of the transverse muscle. As for other circumstances, the tunica vaginalis lies in its whole course in the same manner as the sac of a common ingui- nal hernia: like this, it passes completely through the inguinal canal from one end to the other, resting upon the anterior surface of the sper- matic cord. Consequently, it passes between the separation of the inferior fibres of the obliquus internus, and the principal origin of the cre- master muscle. (See Wrisbcrg. syllog. com- ment. unat. p. 23.) After coming out of the ring, as it is always united to the spermatic cord, it is enclosed in the muscular and aponeurotic sheath of the cremaster muscle, which accom-. panies it to the bottom of the scrotum. Since the tunica vaginalis, including the displaced viscera, enters the inguinal canal on the outside of the point, at which the spermatic cord crosses the epigastric artery, it is manifest, that, as it follows exactly the direction of this cord, it must also cross the artery, and remove it from the outer to the inner side of the ring, according to the mechanism already explained in speaking of the common inguinal hernia. Hence, the displacement of the epigastric artery constantly happens in the inguinal congenital, just as it does in the ordinary external inguinal hernia. “ But, if these two species of inguinal hernia; have some analogy to each other, in regard to the parts which constitute them, yet, they pre- sent some remarkable differences. 1. The common inguinal hernia, whether internal, or external, when it extends into the scrotum, can- not descend beyond the point at which the spermatic vessels enter the testicle. There the cellular substance of the spermatic cord termi- nates. There the hernial sac must unavoidably terminate. On the contrary, in the congenital hernia, the viscera may descend lower than the testicle, with which they are in immediate con- tact ; and, at length, they even occupy the situ- ation of this organ, which is then pushed upward and backward. 2. In the case of a congenital hernia, the descent of the viscera from the groin to the scrotum commonly takes place in a very short time, and in some measure precipitately : H is much slower and more gradual in the ordinary inguinal hernia. The reason of this difference is very plain. In the first case, the descent ol the testicle, and the formation of the tunica vaginalis, have opened and prepared the way, which the viscera must follow in forming a protrusion; while, in the second, the hernial IRNIA. 663 sac cannot descend into the scrotum, but by gradually elongating the layers of the cellular substance, which joins it to the surrounding parts. This fact is so generally known, that experienced practitioners consider the prompti- tude, with which the viscera have descended from the groin to the bottom of the scrotum, as a characteristic sign, of a scrotal congenital hernia.” (Scarpa, Trait6 dcs Hernics, p. 73, c^e.; Hesselbach, p. 35 ; Pott, dj-c.) If circumstances will admit of a truss being applied and worn, in cases of congenital hernia, in young subjects, there will be a considerable chance of a radical cure being effected, in con- sequence of the natural propensity of the open- ing between the abdomen and tunica vaginalis to become closed. The only material difference iri the operation, from that for a bubonocele, is, that the surgeon has to lay open the tunica vaginalis, instead of a common hernial sac. The stricture is to be divided on the same principle as that of an in- guinal hernia, and much in the same manner. As, in a case of congenital hernia, the parts are always protruded on the outside of the epigastric artery, the stricture may be safely divided towards the ilium, as well as directly upwards. (Law- rence on Ruptures, p. 481, Edit. 3.) The parts having been reduced, the edges of the wound are to be immediately brought together, and re- tained so by means of one or two sutures, and sticking plaster, which is much preferable to the plan of applying dressings to the testicle and inside of the tunica vaginalis, so as to heal the part by the granulating process. A new species of hernia congenita was de- scribed by the late Mr. Hey, in which a common peritonaeal hernial sac, containing the viscera, is included in the tunica vaginalis. It arises from the parts being protruded, after the communication, between the abdomen and tunica vaginalis, is closed, so that the peritonaeum is carried down along with the intestine, and forms a hernial sac, within the tunica vaginalis. It is evident also, that such a hernia can only be produced, while the original tunica vaginalis remains, in the form of a bag, as high as the abdominal ring. Operators should be aware of the possibility of having a sac to divide after laying open the tunica vaginalis. (See the accounts of this hernia in Jley's Practical Observations, p. 221, ‘J'c. and A. Cooper's Work on Inguinal Her- nia, p. 69.) UMBILICAL IIERNIA, OR EXOMPHALOS. “ The exomphalos, or umbilical rupture, (says Pott) is so called from its situation, and has (like other liernim) for its general contents, a portion of intestine, or omentum, or both. In old umbilical ruptures, the quantity of omentum is sometimes very great. Mr. Ranby says, that he found two ells and a half of intestine in one of these, with about a third part of the stomach, all adhering together. Mr. Gay and Mr. Nourse found the liver in the sac of an umbilical hernia; and Bohnius says, that he did also. But whatever are the contents, they are ori- ginally contained in the sac, formed by the pro- trusion of the peritonantm. In recent and small ruptures, this sac is very visible; but in old, and