:ved by milder means. ( Vol. 2, p. 87.) do «:h instruments, he ascribes the frequently aticed ulceration of the middle lobe, the ab- ision of its surface, the wounds through its stib- ance, the general inflammation of the whole in- rnal membrane of the bladder, and quick de- ruction of the patient’s life. The gum catheter, uvever, is to be as large as the urethra will isily admit, in order that it may more readily -sengage itself at the turns into the bladder. Vol. 1, p. 75.) Acording to Desault, a large catheter gene- '.lly answers better than a small one, and it : ay either be of silver, or elastic gum. The tter, though the best for the purpose of being ppt in the passage, he says, has not always suf- hient firmness to get through the obstruction in ; e canal, not even with the aid of a stilet. In this •spect, a silver catheter is sometimes preferable, ut, whatever may be the kind of catheter em- oyed, it generally passes as far as the prostate ith perfect facility, where it is stopped, not only r the narrowness, but, also by the new curva- ire, of the passage. For the prostate cannot ; enlarged, without pushing forward and up- ards, or to one side, that portion of the urethra ihind which it is situated. This circumstance jght never to be forgotten, in regulating the ngth, and direction of the beak of the catheter, iiich should also be longer, have a more con- derable curvature, and be more elevated, at the ne of its introduction, than in other cases of ostruction in the urethra. In swellings of the prostate gland, Mr. Hey ns particularly pointed out one advantage, which ■ dongs to elastic catheters, viz. that their cul- ture may be increased while they are in the ■ ethra. This gentleman was introducing an astic gum catheter in a patient, whose prostate and was much enlarged, and finding some ob- ruction near the neck of the bladder, lie with- ew the stilet, in doing which, he accidentally re- r essed the tube, which then went into the blad- ?r. In fact, he found, that the act of withdraw- g the stilet increases the curvature, and lifts up e point of the catheter. (Pract. Obs. in urgery, p. 399, Edit. 2.) For further re- arks, connected with this subject, see the "tides Catheter, and Urine, Retention of. Sir verard Home states, with confidence, that, if e symptoms of the foregoing disease be pre- dated in their early stage from increasing by e treatment, which he has recommended, the sease will get well. (See./. Hmiter's Treatise ’ the Venereal Disease, p, 1G9, §c. ‘id Ecf. o. Load. 1_88. Baillic's Morbid Anatomy. ’ . -/. Desault, CEuvres Cliir. 7'. ?,, p. 220, <§r. o. Paris, 1803. Sir Everard Home, On the re at ment of Diseases of the. Prostate. Gland, Vols. 8vo. Loud. 1811 —1818. Also, On ‘riotarcs, 3 Vols. 8vo 3d Ed. 1805 — 1821. . Hell, On the Muscles of the Ureters in i Ted. Cltir. Trans. Vol. 3. J. Shaw, On the 'mature of the. Prostate Gland, in C. Hell's argical Obs. Vol. 1, Svo. 1810'. E. A. Lloyd ’ Srrophhula, p. 107, ■fyc. 8vo. Loud. 1821. . flow ship, Practical Obs. on Diseases of the rinary Organs, 8(C. Svo. Loud. 1816'. J. if son, On the Male Urinary and Genital rgans, 8vo. Loud 1821.) PSEUDOSYPHILIS, (from , Mse, and Syphilis, the venereal disease.)- Disease, resembling the venereal, but not really of this nature. The spurious venereal disease. (See Venereal Disease.) PSOAS ABSCESS, ^See Lumbar Ab- scess.) PSORIASIS. Scaly tetter. A disease of the order Squamm, in Dr. Bateman’s Synopsis. It is attended with more or less roughness and scaliness of the cuticle, with a subjacent redness. The skin is often divided by deep fissures; and the complaint is generally attended with con- stitutional disorder, and liable to cease and re- turn at certain seasons. For a particular account of its varieties and treatment, see the above work. PSOROPHTHALMY. (from the itch, and oy9ct,\yia, tin inflammation of the eye.) An inflammation of the eyelids, attended with ulcerations, which itch very much. Beer actually understands by the expression, such a disease, from the sudden repression of the itch, or the infection of those parts with psoric matter. (Lchre von den Augenkr. B. 1, p. 566.) Weller not only adopts the same notion, bu‘ makes an ad- dition tt> it, by extending the term also to cases, in which the eyelids are affe^ ted with psoriasis, ' porrigo, and jmpetigines. (Manual of the Diseases of the Eye, Vol. ‘2. p. 264. ) By psorophthalmy, the late Mr. re meant a case, in which the inflammation of the eyelids-is at- tended with an ulceration of their edges, upon which a glutinous matter lodges, incrusts, and becomes hard, so that, in sleep, when they have been long in contact, hey become so adherent, that they cannot be separated without pain. He has remarked,, that “ the ulceration in the psorophthalmy is usually contined to the edges of the eyelids; but, sometimes, it is seen to ex- tend over their whole external surface, and even to excoriate the greater part of the cheek. In cases of the latter kind, the inflammation which accompanies, has often much the appearance of an erysipelas, and will receive most relief from cooling applications. The use of the citrine ointment, which will hereafter le recommended, must, in such instances, be deferred until the irritability of the skin is in a good degree abated; “ This disorder is also, sometimes, attended with a contraction of the skin of the lower eve- lid; in consequence of which, that lid is drawn down, and the inner part turned outward, so as to form a red, fleshy anti most disagreeable .ap- pearance, called ectropium. Whenever this happens, it proves the complaint to be of the most obstinate nature; though it is generally removed by the cure of the psorophthalmy, which is the occasion of it.” (Remarks on Ophthahny, S[C. p. 112.) Mr. Ware recom- mended, for the cure of this disease, the un- guentum hydrargyri nitrali. This is to be melted into an oil, and rubbed with the end of the fore- finger, or the point of a small pencil-brush, into the edges of the affected eyelids, once every night, on going to bed. A plaster of ceratum album is then put over the eyelids to keep them from adhering together. If they should still adhere in the morning, they are to be cleaned with milk ami butter, well mixed together.' In 3 P