CATARACT. 306 seat of the cataract in the same operation, and, in imitation of the celebrated Scarpa, who is en- titled to the honor of having first pointed out the great importance of this practice, I shall pre- sume to recommend, as a general rule in couch- ing, always to lacerate the front layer of the capsule, whether in an opaque or transparent State. ihe capsule of the crystalline lens may retain its usual transparency, while the lens itself is in an opaque state. In this case, an inexperienced operator might, from the blackness of the pupil, suppose, not only that he had removed the lens, but also the capsule from the axis of sight; and, having depressed the cataract, he might unin- tentionally leave this membrane entire in its na- tural situation. Therefore, if there should be any reason for suspecting, that the anterior layer of the capsule has escaped laceration; if, in other words, the resistance made to moving the con- vexity of the instrument forward, towards the pupil, should give rise to such a suspicion; for the sake of removing all doubt, it is proper to communicate to the needle a gentle rotatory mo- tion, by which its point will be turned forward, and disengaged, through the transparent capsule, opposite the pupil: then, bv repeating a few movements downward and backward, it will be so freely rent with the needle, as to occasion no future trouble. If a straight, slender, spear-pointed needle be used, like that of Beer, and the second stage of the operation be completed by the intro- duction of the extremity of the instrument into the posterior chamber, then, according to the di- rections given by the same writer, when depres- sion is indicated, the needle is to be immediately carried to the uppermost part of the cataract, with its point directed somewhat obliquely downwards; and with that surface, which, in the first instance, was applied to the front of the lens, now placed upon its superior edge ; then the opaque body is to be pushed rather obliquely, downwards and outwards, so far below the pupil, that it can no longer be distinguished. After this has been done, the needle is to be gently raised, in order to see whether the cataract will continue depress- ed, and, if it be found to do so, the needle is to be withdrawn in the same direction, in which it was introduced. On the other hand, says Beer, when reclina- tion is to be practised, the needle after being ap- plied to the front surface of the cataract, is not to be moved further out of the position of the second stage of the operation, but its handle is merely to be raised diagonally forwards, whereby the cataract will be pressed downwards and out- wards to the bottom of the vitreous humor, and turned in the manner already specified. Beer has delivered what appears to me one valuable piece of advice for operators on the eye with the needle: whether depression, or reclination, is to be done, says he, a surgeon can only use this in- strument without injurious consequences on the principle of a lever; and every attempt to press with the whole length of the instrument is not only ineffectual, with respect to the progress of the operation, but so hurtful to the eye, that bad effects must follow, as may be readily conceived, when it is recollected how violently the ciliary nerves must be stretched. As for the modifications of the manoeuvres, rendered necessary by the varieties of cataracts, they arc (says Beer) so unimportant in all cases of depression, that a young operator will easily understand them himself. But, thing* are far otherwise in the practice of reclination; for, when the case is a completely formed cupsulur- lenticular cataract, and the opaque capsule is so thin, as to be lorn during the turning of the lens, the latter body will indeed be placed in the in- tended position at the bottom of the eye, but the capsule itself, which has merely been lacerated, must form a secondary cataract, unless the sur- geon, with a sharp double-edged needle, im- mediately divide it in every direction, and remove it as f^r as possible from the pupil. When, during reclination, a sojiisli lens, or one which is pulpy to its very nucleus,' breaks into several pieces, it is necessary, in order not to have afterwards a considerable secondary lenticu- lar cataract, to put the larger fragments sepa- rately in a state of reclination, while the smaller ones may either be depressed, or (jf the pupil be not too much contracted) they may be pushed into the anterior chamber, where they will soon be absorbed. When the cataract is partially adherent to the uvea, Beer recommends an endeavour to be first made, with the edge of the needle, (which is to be introduced flat be- tween the cataract and the uvea, above or below the adhesion) to separate the adherent parts be- fore the attempt at reclination is made. Should it be a cataract, which always rises again as soon as the needle is taken from it, though the instru- ment has not pierced it at all, the case is termed the elastic cataract, in which the lens is not only firmly adherent to its own capsule, but this also to the membrana hyaloidea. Here Beer thinks, that the best plan is first to carry the needle to the uppermost point of the posterior surface of the lens, and by means of perpendicular movements of the cutting part of the instrument, to endeavour completely to loosen this preternatural adhesion of the cataract to the vitreous humor, when re- clination may be tried again, and will perhaps succeed. But, says Beer, when the continual rising of the cataract is caused by the operator’s running the needle into it, the instrument must either be withdrawn far enough out of the eye to let it be again properly brought into the posterior chamber, when reclination may be effectually re- peated ; or, if the cataract be firmly fixed on the needle at the bottom of the eye, the instrument should not be raised again, but previously to being withdrawn, it should be rotated a couple of times on its axis, whereby the pierced lens will be more easily disengaged from the needle, and at last continue depressed. (Lehrc von dm Angenkr. B. 2, p. 356—358. • In addition to Beer’s directions for couching and reclination, the following observations seem to me to merit attention. When the case is a Jluid or milky cataract, the operator frequently finds, that, on passing the point of the couching needle through the ante- rior layer of the capsule, its white milky con- tents instantly flow out, and, spreading like a cloud over the two chambers of the aqueous hu- mor, completely conceal the pupil, the iris, and the instrument, from his view; who, however, might never to be discouraged at this event.