714 INOSCULATION. Physic, VoJ. 1. John Hunter, on the Blood, Inflammation, Sfc. Ato. London, 17<J4. Burns's Dissertations, Svo. Glasgow, 1800. Thom- son's Lectures on Inflammation, Edireft. 1813. Truitt des Maladies Chir. T. 1. Del- pech, Precis Elan, des Mai Chir. T. I, chap. 3, Paris, 1816. John Herd-man, Diss. on White Swelling, rererf the Doctrine of Ihflammution, Svo. Edinb. 1802. ,/. E. Broussais, J/wi. rfes Phlegmasies on Inflammations Chro- viques, c|c. 2 Tom. 8reo. Paris, 1808. C. Wenzel, ii&er die Induration und das Gesclmur in indurioicn Theilcn, Svo. Mainz. 1815, Wilson Philip, ore Febrile Diseases, Part 2, Introduction, Ed. 3; tired Are Experimental Inquiry into the Laws of the Vital Functions, Ed. 2, Svo. Lond. 1818. Caleb II. Parry, Elements of Pathology and Therapeutics, Svo. Lond. 1815. Also, An Experimental Inquiry into the Nature, <^c. of the Arterial Pulse, Svo. Lond. 1816. Charles II. Parry, Additional Experiments on the Arteries of Warm-blooded Animals, SfC. Svo. Lond. 1819. James Wilson, Lectures on the Blood, and on the Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgical Pa. thology of the Vascular System, Svo. Lond. 1819. C. II. Ronnefcld, Animadversioncs non- nullce ad Doctrinam de Inflammatione, 4to. Lips. 1817. C. Hastings, a Treatise on In- flammation of the Mucous Membrane of the Lungs, £c. Svo. Lond. 1820. J. H. James, Observations on some of the General Princi- ples, and on the Particular Nature and Treat- ment of the different Species of Inflammation, 8 vo. Lond. 1821. This Work, and those of Mr. J. Hunter, Mr. Wilson, Mr. J. Burns, Drs. Parry, Philip, and Hastings, deserve attentive perusal by every body desirous of forming a correct judgment of the nature of in- flammation. INJECTION. A fluid intended to be thrown against, or into a part of the body by means of a syringe. Thus port wine and water form an injection, which is used by surgeons for radically curing the hydrocele, and, for this purpose, it is introduced into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, where it excites the degree of inflammation ne- cessary to produce an universal adhesion between this membrane and the albuginea. Thus many fluid remedies are introduced into the urethra and vagina for the cure of gonorrhoea. In the article Gonorrhoea, will be found an ac- count of the best injections employed for its relief. A few additional remedies of this class are here subjoined. INJECTIO ACIDI MURIATICI. R. Aquae distil, ^iv. Acid. Mur. gutt. viij. Misce. Useful when the scalding is a very troublesome symptom. INJECTIO ALUMINIS—R. Alum 3j. Aq. pur. t;vj. Misce.—Successfully employed by Dr. Chestor., as an injection in affections of the rectum, either when the internal coat is simply relaxed, and disposed to prolapsus, or when it is studded with loose fungated tumors. In such cases, camphor is also ot seivice. Jhc quantity of alum may be increased, if the parts will bear it. INJECTIO CUPRI AMMONlATI. R. Liquoris Cupri ummoiu gutt* xx. Aquae losic 'tiv. Misce. Stronglv recommended by Mr. Foot. INJECTIO QUERCUS. R.Decoctiquer- ctls jRj. Aluminis purificat. Jss. Misce. May be used, when the rectum, or vagina, is disposed to prolapsus from relaxation, or in cases of gleet. INOSCULATION denotes, in the language of anatomy and surgery, the union of vessels by conjunction of their extremities. It is generally synonymous with anastomosis, though sometimes a distinction is made, anastomoses signifying the union of vessels by minute ramifications, and inosculation a direct communication by trunk's. The great use of inosculations is to facilitate and insure the continuance of the circulation, when the large trunks of vessels are obstructed by pressure, disease, &c. Thus, in cases of aneu- rism, when the main artery of a limb is tied, the inosculations of the branches, given off above the lighture, with other branches arising below it, form at once a channel, through which the lower part of the limb is supplied with blood. Were there no such arrangement, in the human body, as inosculations, aneurisms could never be cured by a surgical operation. So infinitely numerous indeed are these inosculations, that they do the office of the subclavian, carotid, and external and internal iliac arteries, when these vessels are tied, and upon this fact is founded the success of some of the most brilliant opera- tions in modern surgery. (See Aneurism.) Even the aorta itself may be perfectly obstructed, the circulation go on, and every part be fully supplied with blood. (See Aorta.) In dogs, the abdominal aorta has been tied, without the circulation in the hinder extremities being stop- ped. (See the Experiments of Mr. A. Cooper in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 2, p. 258 ;) and the operation, performed a few years ago, in Guy’s hospital, tends to prove, that the same thing is possible in the human subject. (See Aorta.) From the observations of the same distinguished surgeon it appears, that the arteries, which form the new circulation in a limb, after the obliteration of the principal artery, are not only enlarged but tortuous. Any great increase, however, in the diameter of the anastomosing vessels is but slowly produced j for Mr. A. Cooper has injected a limb several weeks after the operation for pop- liteal aneurism, without being able to force the injection through communicating vessels into the parts below. The limb must have active ex- ercise before the vessels enlarge much. On account of the arteries not very readily enlar- ging, the limbs of persons who have undergone the operation for aneurism, are for a consider- able time weaker than natural. They feel the influence of cold more, and are more disposed to ulcerate from slight causes. Hence, the utility of covering them with flannel, or fleecy hosiery. Hence, the rashness of applying cold washes, bandages, &e. (See A. Cooper’s remarks in the above mentioned Vol. p. 249, et scq.) In another place, the same gentleman has published an interesting description of the anas- tomoses of the arteries of the groin. “ Hypo- thesis (says he) would lead to a belief, that anas- tomosing vessels would be numerous in propor- tion to the time which had elapsed from the ope- ration ; but, the reverse of this is the fact; for, at first, many vessels convey the blood, originally conducted by the principal artery. But, gra-