PARACENTESIS. n it culation of the above kind, will frequently und a <Treat thickness of muscle, instead of a •t where the abdominal parietes are thinnest, t, a still stronger objection is to be urged jnst the practice of attempting to tap in the ;a semilunaris. Men, well acquainted with tomy, have frequently been deceived in their .coning, and, instead of hitting the intended .* with their trocars, they have introduced se instruments through the rectus muscle, and mded the epigastric artery. Pa titbits have 1 from this error, with large extravasations blood in the cavity of the peritonaeum. In a .psical person, who has been tapped, it is to be 11 erved also, that an effusion of blood in the j omen will of course more readily take place, | consequence of the parts not being in the j te close, compact state, in which they are in j t healthy condition. _,et every prudent practitioner, therefore, i eeforth abandon the plan of tapping in the :a semilunaris, and he may the more easily re up his mind to do so, as there is another ?e, where the operation may be done with the lost facility and safety. The linea alba is now imonly preferred by the best surgeons; be- se, here no muscular fibres need be wounded, place can be hit with certainty, and no large ad vessel can be injured. About the middle it, between the navel and pubes, is as good a lation for making the puncture, as can pos- y be chosen. The surgeon should introduce t trocar in a steady, firm manner, never in an tutious, sudden way, lest parts contained in [ peritonaeum should be rashly wounded. For same reason, immediately the point of the :ar has entered the abdomen, a thing always >wn at once, by the sudden cessation of re- ance to its passing inward, it should be in- duced no further, and its office of making a sage for the cannula is already accomplished. 2 surgeon, consequently, is now to take hold the cannula with the thumb and index finger his left hand, and gently insinuate it further > the cavity of the peritonaeum, while with his it hand, he is to withdraw the stilette. The d now gushes out, and regularly as it escapes, sheet, which is round the patient’s body, is te tightened. All the water having been eva- ded, a piece of flannel and a roller are to be aediately applied, as above explained, a piece lint and soap-plaster having been previously lied to the wound. t is not uncommon for the water suddenly to ), long before the full quantity is discharged, netimes, this happens from a piece of intestine, •mentum, obstructing the cannula. This kind toppage may be removed by just introducing robe or director, and holding the portion of ,p\ back. When the water is very viscid, only thing we can do is to introduce a large tar, if doing so should promise to facilitate evacuation. Also, when hydatids obstruct the nula, a larger instrument might allow them ■scape. In encysted dropsies, the practitioner, course, can only let the fluid out of those ca- te* which he can safely puncture. When a dropsy of the ovary is very large, it o admits of being tapped in the linea alba; ., in this particular case, it is generally best make the puncture where the swelling is most prominent. In this disease, the ovarv is either con- verted into one large ca\ ity, filled with lluid, or else it contains several distinct cells. The contents are sometimes exceedingly viscid. In the early stages of the case, the tumor is situated towards one side of the abdomen, and seems to ascend out of the pelvis. I his kind of progress at once distinguishes the disease from a common ascites, which is at- tended, from the first, with an equal, gradual, uni- versal swelling of the abdomen. The cyst of the ovary, when it has attained a large size, generally adheres, in different places, to the inner surface of the peritonaeum, and, in this state, the whole ab- domen often seems uniformly swollen, in conse- quence of the immense magnitude of the dis- ease. (See G. D. Motz, de Structural, Usu, ct Morbie Opariorum, Ato. Jcuor., 178S.) The impairment of the health, arising from the pres- sure of the viscera, and interruption of their functions, and the great difficulty of breathing, produced by the pressure on the diaphragm, make it necessary to let out the fluid, and para- centesis must be done, in the way already re- lated. The disease is often attended with an almost total stoppage of the secretion of urine. Sometimes, the urine is duly secreted, but a re- tention occurs, so that the use of the catheter be- comes indispensable. Tapping, however, can only be regarded as a palliative measure; the water collects again, the same grievances recur, and the operation must be repeated. While an ovarial dropsy is recent, and even after it has been tapped, some attempts may be made to efleet a radical cure. Blistering the surface of the abdomen, keeping up a discharge with the savine cerate, and applying a tight roller, have been known to do good. In France, the cele- brated Le Dran laid open the cysts of ovarial dropsies. His patients did not die of the conse- quent inflammation, and the dropsy, indeed, was cured ; but, there remained either a sarcomatous enlargement of the ovary, which continued to increase till death, or else incurable fistula?, lead- ing into the cyst, were the consequences. The large size of a wound, necessary for this pur- pose, the danger of inducing inflammation in so extensive a surface, as the cyst of a large ovarial dropsy, and the events of Le Dran’s cases, are circumstances, on the whole, which ought to keep the practice from ever being revived. A still more absurd plan has been attempted, viz. to cure the disease by injections, like hy- droceles. I formerly saw two cases, in which port wine and water were injected by the late Mr. Ramsden of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; one patient died very soon afterwards of the in- flammation, and the other perished more linger- ingly from the same cause. Setons have been tried without success. Sometimes, though very seldom, the opera- tion of paracentesis is necessary for giving vent to collections of air in the abdomen. Air, when confined in this manner, is generally contained in the bowels, which it inflates to an enormous size'. Instances, however, are related ol quan- tities of air being confined between the peri- tonaeum and intestines: but, in some of these cases, it is said, that the air was known to have escaped through a small hole in some part of the intestinal canal, and, it is probable, that all the otljcr examples were of the same kind. 'I his