44(j FISTULZK IN BE1UN2K0. moval of strictures (See Urethra, Strictures of) have not been attempted, or not succeeded, nature endeavours to relieve herself by making a new passage for the urine, which, although it often prevents immediate deatii, yet, if not re- medied, is productive of much inconvenience and misery to the patient through life. The mode, by which nature endeavours to procure relief, is by ulceration on the inside of that part of the urethra which is enlarged, and situated between the stricture and the bladder. Thus the urine becomes applied to a new surface; irritating the part, and occasioning the formation of an abscess, into which the urine has access; and when the matter is discharged, be it by nature, or by art, the urine passes through the aperture, and generally continues to do so, whilst the stricture remains. (A. Cooper, Surgical Essays, Part 2, p. 212.) The ulceration commonly begins near, or close to the stricture, although the stricture may be at a considerable distance from the bladder. The stricture is often included in the ulceration, by which means it is removed; but, unluckily, this does not constantly happen. The ulceration is always on the side of the urethra, next to the external surface. The internal membrane and substance of the urethra having ulcerated, the urine readily gets into the loose cellular membrane of the scrotum and penis, and diffuses itself all over those parts; and as this fluid is very irritating to them, they inflame and swell. Tiie presence of the urine prevents the adhesive inflammation from taking piace; it becomes the cause of suppuration wherever it is diffused, and the irritation is often so great that it produces mortification, first in all the cellular membrane, and afterwards in several parts of the skin ; all of which, if the patient live, slough away, making a free communication, be- tween the urethra and external surface, and pro- ducing what are termed fistula, in perinceo, though it is plain enough to every surgeon, who knows the correct meaning of the word fistula, that a recent opening, produced in the perineum by ulceration or sloughing, ought not to be called a fistula, immediately it is formed, and at least, not until it has acquired some of the characters, specified in our explanation of the term fistula. According to Mr. Hunter, when ulceration takes place further back, than the portion of the urethra, between the glans penis and membra- nous part of the canal, the abscess is generally more circumscribed. The urine sometimes insinuates itself into the corpus spongiosum urethras, and is immediately diffused through the whole, even to the glans penis, so as to produce a mortification of all those parts. A fatal instance of this kind is reported by Mr. C. Bell. Surgical Ohs. Vat. 1, p. 98.) Although the ulceration of the urethra may be in the perinaeum, yet the urine generally passes easily forwards into the scrotum, which contains the loosest cellular substance in the body; and there is always a hardness, extend- ing along the perinaeum to the swelled scrotum, in the track of the pus. (Hunter.) Mr. A. Cooper is of opinion, that, as soon as the abscesses, which are the forerunners of the fistula?, can be plainly felt to contain a fluid, it is the best practice to open them with a lancet. The extensive destruction of parts by ulceration, will thus be prevented; the place not unfre- quently then heals up expeditiously without any fistulous orifice being left, and a tendency to those dangerous extravasations of urine is also prevented, which, if the abscesses are not opened early, often prove destructive to life. (A. Cunper, Vol. cit. p. 212.) Ulceration can only be prevented by destroy- ing the stricture ; but when the urine is diffused in the cellular membrane, the removal of the stricture will generally be too late to prevent all the mischief, although it will be necessary for the complete cure. Therefore, an attempt should be made to pass a bougie, for perhaps the stric- ture may have been destroyed by the ulceration, so as to allow this instrument to be introduced. When this is the case, bougies mustbealmost con- stantly used, in order to procure as free a passage as possible. In these cases, Mr. A. Cooper ex- presses a preference to metallic bougies, the size of which is to be gradually increased, until their diameter exceeds the natural diameter of the pas- sage. In some instances, however, he says, that it will be necessary to introduce a pewter cathe- ter, of large size, and to allow it to remain in the bladder, so as at once to act upon the stricture, and hinder the urine from passing through the preternatural opening. In this manner, a per- manent cure may often be effected. Although this experienced surgeon agrees with most sur- geons of the present day, respecting the general inexpediency of employing caustic for the re- moval of a stricture, under the preceding cir- cumstances, yet he admits, that instances do pre- sent themselves, in which, from long neglect, the urethra, and the parts, surrounding the stric- ture, are so altered in structure, that no instru- ment can be passed through the obstruction, without danger, and where the slower action of caustic is safer, than the use of a metallic bougie. (Suroirnl Essays, Part 2, p. 213.) The experi- ence of modern surgeons tends to prove, how- ever, that there are some cases which form ex- ceptions to the plan of employing bougies, or catheters, though a fistulous opening may have occurred in the passage. These cases are the examples, in which the apertures in the urethra are the consequence of ulceration and abscess, unaccompanied by stricture, and taking place in a bad constitution, and perhaps only preceded by a slight discharge from the urethra. Here bou- gies would increase the tendency to ulceration, and aggravate the local and constitutional ir- ritation. (A. Cooper, p. 216.) While we are attempting to cure the stricture, antiphlogistic measures, particularly bleeding, are to be adopted. The parts should be exposed to the steam of hot water; the warm bath made use of; opium and turpentine medicines given by the mouth, and in glysters ; with a view of diminishing any spasmodic affection. But, as Mr. Hunter observes, all these proceedings are often insufficient; and, therefore, an immediate effort must be made, both tnjmload the bladder, and to prevent the further effusion of urine, by making an opening in the urethra, somewhere beyond the stricture, but, the nearer to it, the better. m Introduce a director, or some such instrument, into the urethra, as far as the stricture, and make