52 AMPUTATION ject them to all tlie fatal mischiet ot hastily and roughly transporting them in such a condition. It gives me particular pleasure to find the pre- ceding sentiment confirmed by Dr. Hennen, whose knowledge and experience in military sur- gery entitle all his opinions to the greatest at- tention : in noticing what ought tobe donewith the wounded, when the army is compelled to retreat, he says, “ it then becomes the duty of a certain proportion of the hospital staff to devote them- selves for their wounded, and become prisoners of war along with them; and it may be an en- couragement to the inexperienced, while it is grateful to me, to observe, that I have never witnessed, nor traced, on inquiry, an act of un- necessary severity practised either by the French or English armies on their wounded prisoners.” Compound fractures of the thigh, produced by gunshot violence, too often have an unfavourable termination, especially when the accident has been caused by grape-shot, or even a musket- ball, fired from a moderate distance, and the pa- tient is moved from one place to another after the receipt of the injury. In the military hospital at Oudenbosch, in the spring of 1814, I had charge of about eight bad compound fractures of the thigh, of which cases only one escaped a fatal termination. This was an instance, in which the femur was broken a little way above the knee. Another patient was extricated by amputation from the perils, immediately arising from the splin- tered displaced stateof thebone, the serious injury of the muscles, and enormous abscesses, but was unfortunately lost by secondary hemorrhage. All thesepatienls had not merely been struck by grape- shot, or else by balls fired from a short distance, but they had been moved from Bergen-op-Zoom into my hospital, five or six days after the receipt of the injury, the very worst period possible, on account of the inflammation being then most violent. , From the ill success of these'cases, many a surgeon, who saw them, might be in- clined to think, that immediate amputation ought generally to be performed for all compound frac- tures of the thigh, as soon after the receipt of the injury as possible. And such is my own senti- ment, whenever the accident has been caused in the violent manner above specified, or when- ever the patient must be moved any distance in a wajreon after the occurrence of the in- jury. It may be right to state, however, that I have known more than one compound fracture of the thigh cured, where the accident had not been occasioned by gunshot violence, and I have been informed of one or two successful cases, where the bone was broken by a pistol-hall. How- ever, these may only have been lucky escapes, deviations from what is common, and not enti- tled to any stress with the view of affecting the general excellent rule of amputating, where the thigh-bone is broken by gunshot violence. As Mr. Guthrie has accurately observed, one circumstance, which increases the danger of frac- tures of the femur, from gunshot violence, is, that the bone is very often broken obliquely, the frac- ture extending far above and below the point im- mediately struck by the ball. (Oh Gunshot Wounds, ft. 181), 1 DO.) This disposition of the thigh-bone to be splintered for several inches when hit by a ball, and the increased danger, arising from the occurrence, are also very particularly commented upon by the experienced Schmuckc-r, who wax surgeon-general to the Prussian armies in the campaigns of Frederick the Great. (See his Vtrmiultie C/iivurirische Sc/irtf'ten, B. J. p. 'A9. 8vo.Beilin, 1785.) In several of the cases which were under the care of Dr. Cole and myself in Holland, the bone was split longitudinally', to the extent of seven or eight inches. According to Sehmucker, all fractures of the middle or upper part of the femur, are attended with great danger. “ But (says he) if the frac- ture be situated at the lowest part of the bone, the risk is considerably less, the muscles here not being so powerful; in such a case, therefore, amputation should not be performed, before every other means has been fairly tried; and very’ fre- quently’ I have treated fractures of this kind with success, though the limb sometimes continued stiff. But say’s Sehmucker) if the bone be com- pletely’ fractured or splintered by a ball at its middle, or above that point, I never wait for the bad sy’mptoms to commence, but amputate ere they originate, and, when the operation has been done early enough, most of niv patients have been saved. However, when some day’s had trans- pired, and inflammation, swelling, and fever had come on, I must candidly confess, that the issue was not alway’S fortunate. Yet the operation should not, on this account, be dispensed with; for, if only’ a few can thus be saved out of many, some benefit is obtained, as, without this step, such few’ would also perish.” (Vennischtc Chir. Schriften, B. 1. j). 42.) What I saw of compound frac- tures of the thigh, after the assault on Bergen- op-Zoom, we may’ remark, coincides with the re- sults of Schmucker’s ample experience ; for the only two patients who got over the bad symptoms, proceeding directly from the fracture, were orte whose femur was broken near the knee; and another, whose limb I took offi on account of a fracture of the middle of the bone, accompanied with abscesses of surprising extent. The latter was a case, however, in which the limb ought to have been removed earlier. The following re- marks, by’ Mr. Guthrie, I consider judicious and correct. “ The danger and difficulty of cure, nbendant on fractures of the femur from gunshot wounds, depend much on the part of the bone injured ; and, in the consideration of these circumstances, it will be useful to divide it into five parts. Of these, the head and neck included in the capsular ligament, may be considered the first; the body of the bone, which may’ be divided into three parts, and the spongy portion of the lower end of the bone exterior to the capsular ligament, form- ing the fifth part. Of these, the fractures of the first kind are, I believe, always ultimately fatal, although life may be prolonged for some time. The upper third of the body of the bone, if badly fractured, generally causes death at the end of six or eight weeks of acute suffering. I have seen few escape, and then not with a useful limb, that had been badly fractured in the middle part. Fractures of the lower or fifth division, are in the next degree dangerous, as they’ generally affect the joint; and the least dangerous are fractures of the lower third of the body of the bone. Of these even I do not mean to conceal, that when there is much shattered bone, the danger is great, so that a fractured thigh by gunshot, even with-