fractures. 475) During my apprenticeship, at St. Bartholo- mew's hospital, several instances occurred, in which the os ilium, os ischium, and os pubis, were found fractured on opening the bodies after death • and, when the great violence necessary to produce the accident is considered, we cannot wonder that the injured state of the pelvic vis- cera should frequently prove fatal, fractures of the ossa innominata are unavoidably attended with more or less contusion of the soft parts on the outside of the pelvis, and when the violence has beer, very great, the pelvic viscera may be fragment has been produced, the exact nature of the case is rarely made out with certainty, before the patient’s death, and the dissection of the parts. Fractures of the ossa innominata may be generally deemed cases, accompanied with seri- ous danger. When the fragments are displaced, and do not admit of being rectified again, the disorder arising from this cause may have fatal consequences. And as Boyer observes, even when such displacement does not exist, these fractures are not the less to be apprehended, on seriously bruised, crushed,‘or lacerated ; and the .account of the injury, which the spinal marrow contained in the pelvis, or the and the nerves, vessels, muscles, and viscera large nerves, spinal marrow itself injured : hence, extravasa- tion of blood in the cellular membrane of the pelvis, ecchymoses deeply situated even in the substance of the muscles, or other organs, in- jury of the kidneys; complete loss of motion, a paralysis of the lower extremities; discharge ot blood, or a black bilious matter by vomiting, or stool, either immediately, or at more or less dis- tant periods from that of the accident; retention of urine; fever; painful tension of the abdomen, from inflammation of the peritoneum and bowels; the formation of abscesses, which are sometimes of great extent; sloughing; and death. (Boyer, Tiaii£ des illu/. Chir. /'. 3, 71. 154.) As the same author has observed, the violence, occasioning a fracture of the ossa innominata, may produce a displacement of the fragments, and carrv them more or less away from their natural situation. When the pubes, or ischium, is broken, the splinters may be propelled into the canal of the urethra, or even through the bladder, and give rise to extravasation of the urine, or by merely compressing these organs, this may cause more or less interruption of their functions. But, unless the fragments be dis- placed by the same force, which caused the frac- ture, they can hardly be drawn out of their place by any other circumstance, since they are re- tained by the muscles being attached to both fragments, and by surrounding ligamentous ex- pansions. Owing to the deep situation of fractures of the pelvis, and to there being no displacement, nor mobility of the fragments, the diagnosis is some- times attended with great difficulty. A suspi- cion of the accident may be entertained, when the pelvis has suffered great violence, the patient experiences great agony, and all motion of the trunk and lower extremities is difficult and pain- ful. Under these circumstances, if the fracture should be in the ilium, especially its upper and front portion, or in the os pubis, the mobility of the fragments, or even a crepitus, may be dis- tinguished in a thin subject, if when he is lying horizontally, with his thighs and legs bent, and his head and chest elevated, the projecting part of the os innominatum be taken hold of, and an attempt be made to move the fragments in op- posite directions. In this business, however, one caution is given by Boyer, viz. not to mistake the crepitation of an emphysema, often attending large extravasations of blood, for the grating of the fractured bone. In cases, in which the fracture affects a part of the o8 innominatum very deeply placed, and limited to a single point of the os pubis, are likely to have sustained, which are almost mse- ischiur that no detached moveable within the pelvis These complications, parable from the fracture, may prove indeed di- rectly fatal, or destroy the patient at a period more or less remote from the time of the acci- dent. Sometimes, however, the fracture is not extensive, and the violence, which produced it, has not caused any very serious injury of the soft parts: but examples of this kind are uncommon. In these last cases, which are the most simple, a cure of the fracture may be easily effected by means of rest; a position in which all the chief muscles attached to the pelvis are relaxed ; dis- cutient applications; and a roller, or T bandage. (Boyer, Trait6 des Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 156.) The grand indication is to obviate the conse- quences of inflammation of the parts within the pelvis, and even of the peritonaeum and abdo- minal viscera, by copious and repeated blood- letting. Any complaints, respecting the eva- cuation of the urine and feces, must also receive immediate attention. When there is great con- tusion, and the bones are very badly broken, the patient cannot move nor go to stool, without suf- fering the most excruciating pain. To afford some assistance in such circumstances, Boyer, in a particular case, passed a piece of strong girth web under the pelvis, and, collecting the corners into one, fastened them to a pulley sus- pended from the top of the bed. This enabled the patient to raise himself with very little efforts, so that a flat vessel could be placed under him. It appears to me, that a bed, constructed on the principles recommended by the late Sir James Earle, might be of infinite service in these cases, as well as in many others, particularly compound fractures and paralytic affections from diseased vertebrae. (See Observations on Fractures of the Lower Limbs; to which is added, an account of a contrivance to administer cleanliness and comfort to the bed-ridden ; bp Sir J. Earle, 1807.) Mr. Earle has also exerted his mechanical ingenuity with great success in the invention of a bed, admirably well calculated for the treatment of fractures, and other cases, in which it is an ob- ject of high importance, to enable the patient to empty the bowels without changing his position. Sometimes, notwithstanding the rigorous adoption of antiphlogistic measures, abscesses cannot be prevented from forming in the pelvis ; particularly, when there are detached splinters driven inwards. These collections of matter should be opened, as soon as a distinct fluctua- tion can be felt. The splinters may wound the urethra or bladder, and cause an extravasation of urine. Desault extracted a splinter, which had had this effect, from the bottom of a wound.