872 01TITHALMY. parts of the body, may be healed either by direct union, or a slower process, in which suppuration, the filling up of the chasm, by granulations, and the gradual but not complete approximation of its edges to each other, are the most conspi- cuous effects. Clean incised wounds may be cured in the first way, (see Cataract;) and lace- rated, contused wounds, or such as are attended with loss of substance, in the second. But, whichever plan be attempted, the eye must be kept quiet, and excluded from the air and light, with a light suitable bandage. As in wounds and chemical injuries of the eyeball itself, not admit- ting of reunion, the eyelids, when closed, com- pletely cover the wounded part, the application of dressings to it becomes both unnecessary and impracticable, and all that can be done is to drop frequently into the eye a mucilaginous eollyrium, and cover the organ with a light bandage, which will not make any hurtful pressure. In sim- ple contusions of the eye, unaccompanied with wound. Beer deems a bandage the only requisite application ; but, when these accidents are con- joined with effusion of blood, he recommends the use of spirituous aromatic fomentations, with the view of promoting absorption. In healthy individuals, small punctures of the eye, made with instruments like needles, and perforating only the conjunctiva, or cornea, but not reaching the deeper textures of the organ, are generally followed by no serious conse- quences, even when all the aqueous humour is voided. It is only necessary to keep the eye quiet, and the air and light excluded from it by means of a' light compress, suspended over it from the forehead. Under this treatment, such punctures are so firmly closed in twenty-four hours, without any opacity, that the chambers are nearly filled again with aqueous humour, and the intolerance of light, which was only the effect of the loss of that fluid, is entirely removed. In large clean cut wounds of the eye, whether accidental or made in the extraction of the cata- ract, the prognosis must be very cautious, and the treatment conducted with the utmost care; for, says Beer, it too readily happens, that, though the wound is not important in itself, its effects become from the least mismanagement highly dangerous to the eye. Hence, when the patient is known to be either an individual not likely to take proper care of himself, or one too much alarmed about the fate of his eye, the prog- nosis should be very guarded, even where the con- stitution is of the best description, because a violent and dangerous attack of ophthalmy is apt to ensue, and destroy the eye, sooner than effectual succour can be administered. On the other hand, when the patient is steady and in- telligent, and the case is properly treated, the prognosis is very favourable. In considerable cuts of the eye, it is only pos- sible to promote their union with a suitable band- age, and by effectually preventing all motion of the eye anil eyelids, which is best accomplished, when the sound, as well as the injured eye is covered, and the patient kept quiet in bed until the sides of the wound have grown together.— {Beer, B. 1, p- 164.) As cases of deeply penetrating wounds of the eyeball itself, Beer enumerates the punctures made in the depression and rcclination of the cataract, and in every mode of forming arti-v < ficial pupil; and lacerations of the conjunctival with ears of corn, pointed pieces of iron, splinters! of wood, &c. In these cases, the prognosis, hel says, is always very favourable, when the patient! can put himself under all the conditions whichN the treatment requires, and his constitution is! ■ j good. The first thing here to be carefully ful-i filled, is the removal of any fragments of the:!j» ' instrument, or body, with which the injury has;pi been inflicted, and, it should be recollected, that, w ! in these cases, minute splinters, which are scarcely' discernible, frequently lodge in the conjunctiva,; ii and, if not immediately traced and removed, :•; produce the very worst consequences. By I the weapon being suddenly withdrawn, pieces j# f of the conjunctiva are sometimes nearly torn I away', and hang from the eye; these Beer b f directs to be cut off with scissars. The best ap- M plications, he says, are either lukewarm muci- k \ laginous lotions, or, (when blood is effused un- ^ I der the conjunctiva,) vinous, spirituous collyria. I To these cases, he thinks fomentations scarcely * applicable. When the quantity of blood, effused i in the loose cellular texture under the conjunc- tiva, is very considerable, he recommends scari- * fications*; but, where this practice does seem j likely to answer, and vinous spirituous collyria are ineffectual, some of the liquor ammonia; should be added to them. When any fragment of the instrument has been overlooked, and re- 1 mains in the part, either a copious suppuration * ensues, and the fragment is at length detached, g or else, in a patient of inferior sensibility, a soft, I spongy, readily bleeding, pale-red excrescence I is formed all round the extraneous body, and j sometimes even projects between the eyelids, j. Here, according to Beer, the first requisite step is to cut away the fungus with a knife, so as to reach the irritating fragment under it, and then < the rest of the excrescence may be removed by touching it with the tinctura thebaica, or vinous tincture of opium. With respect to lacerated wounds of the cor- nea, they either penetrate the anterior chamber, or not. They are all of them attended with more or less concussion, laceration, stretching, and partial contusion, of the delicate anterior tex- tures of the eyeball; a consideration, as Beer observes, materially affecting the prognosis, j When, in such injuries of the cornea, inflam- mation and suppuration cannot be prevented, or the discharge is protracted, an obvious scar is always the consequence, which, when situated in the centre of the cornea, is a serious impediment to vision. Every endeavour should therefore be made to unite the wound by the first inten- ,1 tion; and the best chance will be afforded by treat- j! ing the eye precisely in the same manner as after the extraction of the cataract. (See Cataract.) And, when fortunately the plan succeeds, the ; flow of the aqueous humour out of the eye ceases ' in about 36 or 48 hours, and the anterior cham- ber becomes distended again ; but, the site of the injury continues visible for some time after- wards. The speck, however, ultimately disap- pears, though much sooner in young, healthy subjects, than in the aged and feeble. When the opacity does not go off'of itself, Beer finds a eol- lyrium, containing some of the lapis divinus, (see Lachrymal Organs,) and the vinous tine-