DEC 350 DIO IX DACRYOMA. (from Srexn i/Wf to weep.) An impervious state of one, or both the puncta laebrymalia, preventing the tears from passing into the lachrymal sac. DAUCUS. The carrot, when boiled and beaten to a pulp, is used in surgery as a poultice, which is often applied to malignant and pha- gedenic ulcers. (See Cataplasm a Dana.) DECOCTUM CHAMCEMELI. R. Flo- rum Chamoemeli ^ss. Aquae Distillataelbj. Boil ten minutes, and strain the liquor. A common decoction for fomentations. (See Fumentum.) DECOCTUM DULCAMARAS, R. Dul- camaras Caulis Concisae unciam, Aquae Octarium cum Semisse. Decoque ad octarium, et cola. The decoction of bittersweet, or woody night- shade, is recommended for some cutaneous dis- eases, proceeding from scrofula, lepra, and lues venerea. The dose is one or two table spoonfuls, three times a day. An aromatic tincture should be added. DECOCTUM HELLEBORI ALBI.— (Now the Decnctum Veratri.) R. Pulveris Radicis Hellebori Albi ^j. Aquae Distillatae lbij. Spiritus Vinosi Rectificati (t’ij. Boil the water and powder, till only one half the fluid re- mains, and when cold, add the spirit. This is used as a lotion for curing psora, porrigo, and some herpetic affections. DECOCTUM LOBELIAE. (Blue Car- (final Flower of Virginia.) R. Radicis Lobeliae Syphiliticae Siccae Manip j. Aquae Distillatae lb. xii. This is to be boiled till only four quarts remain. The lobelia once gained repute as an antivenereal, though little reliance is now put in it. The patient is at first to take half a pint twice, and afterwards four times a day. It ope- rates, however, as a purgative, and the doses must be regulated according as the bowels appear to bear them. DECOCTUM MEZEREI. R. Corticis Radicis Mezerei Recentis ^ij. Radicis Glycir- rhizae Contusae ^j. Aquae Distillatae Ibiij. Boil the mezereon in the water, till only two pints re- main ; and, when the boiling is nearly finished, add the liquorice root. The decoction of mezereon has been much prescribed for venereal nodes and nocturnal pains in the bones, in doses of from four to eight ounces, three times a day. DECOCTUM PAPAVERIS. R. Papa- veris Somniferi Capsularum Concisarum Jiv. Aquae lbiv. Boil for a quarter of an hour, 'and strain. In cases attended with great pain and inflammation, this decoction is used as a foment- ing fluid. DECOCTUM QUERCUS. R. Quercfls Corticis ^j. Aqua lbij. Boil down to a pint, and strain the fluid. This decoction forms a very astringent injec- tion, which is sometimes used for stopping gleets from the vagina. It also makes a loflon, which is of considerable use in cases of prolapsus ani. It may be applied to some slight rheumatic white swellings, which it will sometimes cure, par- ticularly, when a little alum is put into it. DECOCTUM SARSAPARILLAE. R. Sarsaparilla Radicis Concisae Jjiv. Aquae Fer- ventis lbiv. The sarsaparillae is to be macerated for four hours, near the fire, in a vessel lightly closed. The root is then to be taken out, bruised, and put into the fluid again. The ma- ceration is to be continued two hours longer, after which the liquor is to be boiled till only two pints remain. Lastly, it is to be strained. DECOCTUM SARSAPARILLAE COM- POSIIUM. R. Decocti Sarsaparillae fer- ventis lbiv. Sassafras Radicis Concisae, Gua- iaci Ligni Rasi, Glycyrrhizae Radicis Contusae, Singulorum ?j. Mezerei Radicis Corticis 3iij. These are to be boiled together for a quarter of an hour, and then strained. This, and the preceding decoction of sarsapa- rillae, are much prescribed by surgeons in cases of venereal nodes and pains; but, while some sur- geons hold them in high repute, in such cases, others entertain an opposite opinion of them. They are also commonly given in several cuta- neous diseases, and in scrofula. The simple decoction is frequently directed for the restoration of the constitution after a course of mercury, sometimes mixed with an equal quantity of milk. The common dose of both the decoctions is from four to eight ounces, three times a day. The compound one possesses similar qualities to those of the famous Lisbon diet drink, for which it is now generally prescribed-. DECOCTUM ULiVII. R. Ulmi Corticis Recentis Contus. Jjiv. Aquae lbiv. Boil to two pints, and then strain the liquor. The decoction of elm bark is often prescribed in cutaneous diseases. Its operation is frequently promoted by giving with it the hydrargyri sub- murias. DECOCTUM VERATRI. (See Decoc- tum Helleboti Albi.) DEPRESSION OF THE SKULL. (See Head, Injuries of.) DEPRESSION OF THE CATARACT. (See Cataract.) DETERMINATION. When the blood flows into a part more rapidly and copiously than is natural, it is said, in the language of sur- gery, that there is a determination of blood to it. DIAERESIS, (from 2imofu>, to divide.) A division of substance ; a solution of continuity. This was formerly a sort of generic term, applied to every part of surgery, by which the continuity of parts was divided. DIGESTION, (from digero, to dissolve.) By the digestion of a wound, or ulcer, the old surgeons meant bringing it into a state, in which it formed healthy pus. DIGESTIVES. Applications which pro- mote this object. DIORTilllOSIS. (from to direct.) One of the ancient divisions of surgery: it sig-