CAESAREAN OPERATION. 259 case happened on the 8th ot June, 1 i 4o, and both the moilu-r and child were living at the period, when Rigaudeaux published the observa- tion. Supposing, however, delivery in the ordinary manner to be impracticable, at all events, the Ciesarean Operation ought to be performed, with the same cautions, as if the mother were alive, only one incision being made for the purpose of opening the uterus. Almost all the insurmountable obstacles to delivery originate from the bad conformation of die pelvis, depending upon rachitis; though they are not an invariable consequence of it, since there are women, extremely deformed, in whom no imperfection of the pelvis exists, while it pre- vails in others, whose shape is but trivially dis- iirured. An examination of the dimensions of .he pelvis is the right mode of ascertaining, whe- :.her there is really such an impediment to partu- •ition. In order that the dimensions may not be m obstacle to delivery, the distance, between the ipper edge of the sacrum and the os pubis, ought 0 be three inches and a half; and the distances, ictwcen the tuberosities of the ischium, and be- ween each of these protuberances and the point >f the os coccygis, three inches. Women have ndeed been known to be delivered, without assist- nee, although the first of the above distances, -as only two inches and a half; but, then the cads of the children were so elongated, that the reat diameter was nearly eight inches, while that hich extends from one parietal protuberance to le other, was reduced to two inches five or six nes, and the infants were lifeless. If they are ) be born alive, they must be taken out of the omb by the Caesarean Operation ; but, the latter -oceeding should never be adopted, without a .-rtainty, that they are actually living; for hen dead, they may be extracted in a way, tat is attended with much less risk to the mther. It is not always an easy matter to ascertain ith certainty, whether a foetus in utero, be liv- g, or dead. If it has entirely ceased to move, ter being affected with a violent motion, the obability is, that it is no longer alive. But, to certain, manual examination is necessary, fich may be practised in two ways. One con- its in pressing upon the uterus, through the rietes of the abdomen. Jf the child lives, such essure makes it move, and the motion can be finly felt, and distinguished. In the other ?thod, one hand is employed in pressing upon J uterus externally, while, with the fingers of J other hand, passed up the vagina, corre- wonding pressure is also to be made. The uterus 1 likewise to be allowed to descend as far as pos- 1 le, in order to induce the foetus to move. hen no decisive indications can be thus obtain- it becomes necessary to rupturd the mem- ines, if they have not already given way, intro- -e the hand into the uterus, and put a finger o the child’s mouth, for the purpose of making nove its tongue. The finger may also be ap- 2d to the region of the heart, so as to examine, ether this organ is beating ; and the umbilical 'd may be touched, in order to ascertain, whe- T 'here is still a pulsation in it. When none these proceedings furnish unequivocal informa- n, the conclusion is, that the child is dead. and its extraction is indicated, unless the narrow- ness of the parts be such, that the hand cannot be passed into the uterus, in which case, the Caesarean Operation is indispensable. But, how are wre to form a judgment respect- ing the dimensions of the pelvis? And how can we know, whether that diameter, which extends from the upper edge of the sacrum to the os pubis, is long enough to allow the passage of the child ? The proper confirmation of this part is known, by the roundness and equality of the hips, both in the transverse and perpendicular direction; by the projection of the pubes; by the moderate depression of the sacrum ; by an extent of four or five inches from the middle of this de- pression to the bottom of the os coccygis ; by an extent of seven or eight inches from the spinous process of the last lumbar vertebra to the highest part of the mons veneris, in a woman moderately fat; and by there being an interspace of eight or nine inches, between the two anterior superior spinous processes of the ossa ilium. These general calculations, however, are insuf- ficient. In order to acquire more correct opinions, double compasses have been employed. The branches of the first being applied to the top of the sacrum, and middle of the mons veneris, three inches are to be deducted from the dimensions, indicated by the instrument; viz. two inches and a half for the thickness of the upper part of the sacrum, (which is said to be constant in subjects of ever)’- size,) and half an inch for that of the os pubis. In women, who are exceedingly fat, some lines must also be deducted on this account. Hence, when the total thickness of the pelvis, measured in this direction, is seven inches, there will remain four for the distance from the upper part of the sacrum to the os pubis, or for the extent of the lesser diameter of the upper aper- ture of the pelvis. For taking the measurement internally, a kind of sector was invented by Coutouly It bears a considerable resemblance to the instruments, employed by shoemakers for measuring the feet. It is passed into the vagina, with its two branches approximated, until one arrives opposite the an- terior and upper part of the sacrum, when the other is to be drawn outward, so as to be applied to the pubes. The distance, between the branches, is judged of by the graduations on the instrument. This was named by its inventor a pelvimeter. According to Sabatier, it is not always easy to place it with accuracy ; its employment is attend- ed with some pain ; and there are particular cases, in which it cannot be used. Instead of this contrivance, the celebrated Bau- deloque recommended a means, which seems to be very safe and simple. The index finger of one hand is to be introduced into the vagina to the upper part of the projection of the sacrum. '1 lie finger, having the radial edge turned forwards, is then to be inclined anteriorly till it touches the arch of the pubes. The point of contact being then marked with the opposite hand, the length from the point in question to the end ol the lin- ger is to be measured. This length, which indi- cates the distance between the sacrum arid the bottom of the symphysis pubis, usually exceeds that of the lesser diameter of the pelvis !>v about six lines. Baudcloque acknowledges, that tins mea- surement is not exaetiv accurate; but, he believes, S 2