URINARY CALCULI. 1U97 * - } ibe ! !er ,) I i Irfl 3.) j , I '■; I jlr. e. I i,/’| r number of calculi are found in the bladder, the circumstance is generally attended with an en- largement of the prostate gland, directly behind which a sacculus is formed. In cases of diseased prostate gland, the bladder can seldom be com- pletely emptied, and this partial stagnation of the urine in the sac, here alluded to, is supposed to facilitate the production of calculi. From their number and collision against each other, their • surfaces are generally smooth, and their shape is . commonly roundish. (See 1Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11,/;. 359, and art. Prostate Gland.) Other calculi have been met with of so large a size, that they were more than six inches in diameter. In Foureroy’s museum, and in that of the Ecole de ?Mede ine, at Paris, maybe seen some calculi, which filled the whole cavity of the bladder; and, i in the Phil. Trans, for 1809, the late Sir James iEarle described an enormous stone, which he ex- : traded after death from the bladder of the late Sir David Ogilvie who had been unsuccessfully cut for it. This calculus, which was of the fusible kind, weighed forty-four ounces, and was of an oval shape, its long axis measuring sixteen inches, and the shorter fourteen. The average size of vesical calculi may be compared with that of a chesnut, walnut, or a small hen’s egg. The size depends very much upon their composition, the largest being of the fusible kind. Their weight edifiers fromafew grains to upwards of fifty ounces; but, on an average, it is from two to six ounces. ITheir weight is not always proportioned to their size; for, substances of different qualities enter into their composition, and diversify their heavi- ness. The urinary salts, in calculous patients, are not continually precipitated in the same quan- tities : in some cases, indeed, the process appears to be even suspended for a considerable time. Hence, a stone, of middling size, already ormed, may increase but very slowly, and it aas actually happened, that a calculus, which could be plainly felt with a sound, has remained nore than ten years in the bladder, and, yet, lfter all this time, been only of a moderate size. According to Dr. Marcet, the form of urinary : calculi is mostly spheroidal, sometimes egg- ihaped, but often flattened on two sides, like an dmond. (P. 50.) Sometimes, the calculous natter, which descends from the kidneys, is in f he form of minute spherical grains, which have i singular tendency to unite either to each other, ir to calculi already lodged in the bladder. When there are several loose calculi in the iladder together, the)’seldom lie long in contact with each other, while their size is diminutive, >ut are incessantly changing their situation as die patient moves about, or alters the position of 1,8 body. Hence, their increase is at first regu- • tar and uniform ; but, when they have attained J more considerable size, or by their numbers compose a large mass, their relative situation is nore permanent, and many of their surfaces ;emg in this manner usually covered, no longer 'eceive any additional depositions. Every other tart of these calculi, however, goes on incrca- ,inB* It is thus, that stones, witli surfaces cor- esponding to those of other stones, are pro- 'lcct*, an(' which are aptly denominated by the trench writers “pierre* dfaccttes." Dr. Marcet has likewise taken nd{ice of the angular shape of certain calculi, and remarked the rare occurrence of their being sometimes, almost cubic. His work contains the engraving of a species of calculus, which somewhat resem- bles a pear, with a circular protuberance at its broader end, apparently moulded in the neck of the bladder. The same intelligent writer has also particu- larly considered the variety in the colours and surfaces of calculi, which often afford indications of their chemical nature. ‘‘When they have a brownish, or fawn colour, somewhat like maho- gany wood, with a smooth, though sometimes finely tuberculated surface, they almost always consist of lithic acid. When cut open, they appear to be formed of concentric layers, sometimes ho- mogeneous, sometimes alternating with other sub- stances. The colour, however, cannot be con- sidered as a certain criterion, since other kinds of calculi may often be coloured in the bladder, in a similar manner, by bloody mucus, or other vitiated secretions. “ When calculi are white, or greyish-white, they always consist of earthy phosphates. This is particularly the case with the species called fusible. And, when they are dark brown, or almost black, hard in their texture, and covered with tubercles, or protuberances, they are gene- rally of the species which has been distinguished by the name of mulberry, and consists of oxalate of lime. “ Calculi have sometimes an uneven, crystal- line surface, studded with shining, transparent particles. This appearance always denotes the presence of the ammoniaco-magnesian phos- phate.” (Marcet, p. 52.) A large calculus, especially when it has a rough irregular surface, produces a great deal of irritation of the bladder, which contracts more closely round it. The contact, however, is re- marked to be particularly exact at the transverse line, which extends between the terminations of the two ureters in the bladder; a part of this organ which generally becomes more thickened than the rest. Sometimes, indeed, the cavity of the bladder is nearly effaced, and the urine can be retained only a very short time, or if it be not evacuated, it spreads uniformity round the calculus, especially above and below the above- described transverse projection, which is less yielding than other parts of this organ. Hence, the surface of the stone, towards the orifices of the ureters, does not enlarge so fast as the other sides of it, and a circular groove is produced, giving the foreign body the shape of a calabash. Such calculi are generally very large, and some- times even of enormous size. In the lattpr cir- cumstance, the foreign body fills the cavity of the bladder so completely, that there is no space left for the lodgment of the urine there, which fluid then generally passes along a sort of groove, situated in a line reaching from the lower ter- mination of the ureter to the neck of the blad- der. This state is of course accompanied with a complete incontinence. Urinary calculi are not always loose and move- able in the cavity of the bladder; being some- times fixed in various ways to certain points of the circumference of this organ ; a subject, which has been noticed in the article Lithotomy. When the bladder protrudes from the abdomen,