194 ANUS. and conjoined with violent pain, inflammation, and febrile symptoms. When complicated with strangulation, the consequences may he a stop- page of the feces, severe pairi, swelling, in- flammation, and even gangrene, within the cavity of the abdomen. In short, all the evils may arise, which attend strangulated hernia. The prognosis, therefore, varies according to the dif- ferent degree, species, cause, and complication of the disease. The recent, small, moveable prolapsus ani, the cause of which admits of being at once removed, may be effectually and radically cured. It should always be recollected, however, that when once the rectum has been affected with prolapsus, a tendency to protrusion from any slight occasional cause generally remains. The habitual prolapsus, which has existed for years, and comes on whenever the patient goes to stool, is the case, which is most difficult of relief. The treatment of prolapsus ani embraces three principal indications. 1. The speedy reduction of the prolapsed part. 2. The retention of the reduced bowel. 3. The removal and avoidance of the causes by which the disease is induced. In general, when the case is recent, and the tumour not of immoderate size, the reduction may be accomplished with tolerable ease, by put- ting the patient in a suitable posture, with the buttocks raised, and the thorax depressed, and by making gentle and skilful pressure, either with the palm of the hand, or fingers. When dif- ficulty is experienced, the patient if young or robust may be bled; and the part be fomented. The large intestines may also be emptied by means of a mild unirritating clyster, and half an ounce of the oleum ricini should be exhibited. In the habitual prolapsus ani; the patient himself is generally accustomed to reduce the part, or it goes up of itself when he lies down. When, how- ever, the inflammation and swelling are urgent, the part ought on no account to be irritated with re- peated attempts at reduction. The practitioner should rather have recourse to the antiphlogistic plan, especially leeches, fomentations, or cold washes, and the exhibition of the oleum ricini, and wffien the swelling has been lessened, the reduction may be again attempted. When the reduction is prevented by a spasmodic resistance, the use of an anodyne poultice, or fomentations, a clyster of the same quality'’, the warm bath, and the internal use of opium, are the best means. Should the complaint not give way to the preceding re- medies, and the symptoms become more and more pressing, the particular situation of the stricture should be examined Svith a probe, and divided either with a knife and director, or with a concealed bistoury. Some writers speak of the employment of a speculum ani; but on ac- count of the globular form of the disease, it must be difficult of application. Cases are re- corded, in which the protruded part, cither in the state of gangrene or of chronic hardness, thickening, and elongation, has been removed with a knife, or ligature. (See Cheselden’s Ana- tomy, Sfc. 1741 Kcrstcns, Hi start a Scdis pro- ciduai, resectionc feliciter stm alec, Kilan. 1779; Whately, in Med. Tracis and Observ. Vol. 8, No. 16.) However, I should apprehend, that, in the circumstance of gangrene, the measures, best calculated for stopping its course, detaching thfeg sloughs, and keeping up the patient’s strength, must always be more prudent, than such an ope- ration. The reduction having been effected, it is pro- per to introduce the forefinger up the rectum, irw order to ascertain, that no intussusception exist.-s above the anus within the sphincter. The boweBj is then to be kept in its place by quietude in the! recumbent posture, and, if there be a great ten-i dency to relapse, it will be proper to apply to thefc fundament a piece of sponge, or compresses, sup- ported with the T bandage. But, if such means! should not answer, and an habitual prolapsus anil should recur again and again, which is not un- frequent where the disease has been neglected, on its causes have long remained unremoved, thet^ apparatus described by Mr. Gooch may be triectj with more hope of success. (Chirnrgical Worksj Vol. 2, p. 150, Edit. 1792.) Others have used perforated balls of ivory. Callisen found the in- troduction of a piece of sponge, within the rectum, fastened to a silver probe, give effectual support-, In France, instruments, made of elastic gum* have been employed with advantage for support- ing tiie rectum. (Richerand Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 444, Ed. 4.) On account of the elasticity, and unirritating quality of this substance, I conceive, it is betteq calculated than any other material for the con- struction of such instruments. It cannot bai denied, however, that all foreign bodies in the* rectum create serious annoyance. In the females sex, a vaginal pessary, rather prominent behind,! usually hinders the recurrence of a prolapsus ani.. The late Mr. Hey has published some highly interesting remarks on the cure of the procidentias ani in adults. In one gentleman, the disease! took place whenever he had a stool, and con- tinued for some hours, the gut gradually retiring* and at last disappearing, until he had occasion to* go again to the vault. After each stool, he used! to'place himself in a chair, and obtain a little: relief by making pressure on'the prolapsed part ;B and he then was in the habit of going to bed,,j where the intestine by degrees regained its* natural situation. While the bowel was down, there was a copious discharge from it of a tliinl mucous fluid, blended with blood. 111)011 the! part was up, the anus was constantly surrounded! by a thin, pendulous flap of integuments, ge- nerally hanging down to the extent of threef fourths of an inch. Around the anus, thercfl were also several soft tubercles of a bluish colour,,j situated at the basis, and at the inner part, of thet pendulous flap. These were evidently formed byj1 the extremity of the rectum. The patient, pre-i viously to the establishment of these habitual at-JI tacks of prolapsus ani, had been afflicted forseveraU years with pain after each stool, protuberances at| the extremity of the rectum, and discharge off blood and mucus. For these complaints, hefl applied to Mr. Sharp, who gave him an oint-r ment to be applied after each stool, some soapy pills to be taken, and recommended the use of j a clyster a little before the time of going to I stool. The latter remedy, however, could not j be adopted, and no material benefit was derived I from the others. Some years afterwards, when j Mr. ITey was consulted, the foregoing symptoms ! continued, in addition to which there was tht' !