10GG- , ULCERS. The parts, which are situated between an ab- scess, or any extraneous substance, and the nearest surface, are those, which are most sus- ceptible of ulceration. I his is one of the most curious phenomena, connected with the process under consideration. It shews, that there is a principle in the human body, by which parts are al- ways prone to free themselves from disease. Slight pressure from without will often produce a thick- ening of parts, and hence, Mr. Hunter remarks, there even appears to be a corresponding back- wardness to admit disease. (P. 449.) Both these facts, he observes, are shewn in the case of fistula lachrytnalis; for, though the matter is nearest the cavity of the nose, still it makes its way externally, by means of ulceration, while the Schneiderian membrane even becomes thickened, so as to become a barrier against the progress of the disease inward. (P. 451.) There is one difference between the advance- ment of an encysted tumor to the surface of the body, and the progress cf an abscess in the same direction, viz. that the former does not excite ulceration of the cyst; but, an interstitial absorp- tion of the sound parts, between the cyst and skin, till the cyst and external skin come into contact, at which period, inflammation takes place, and absorption becomes accelerated into ulceration. In an abscess, the progressive ulce- ration begins in the cyst, at the same time, that the interstitial absorption in the sound .part, covering the matter, is going on. (P. 452— 457.) The action of progressive absorption is to re- move surfaces contiguous to irritating causes, which Mr. Hunter referred to pressure, irrita- tion, and weakness. In cases of tumors, press- ure becomes a cause. The buttocks and hips of persons, who lie long on their backs, often ulce- rate. The heels of many patients, with fractures, who lie for a great while in the same position, are apt to ulcerate. In the latter instances, Mr. Hunter conceived, that ulceration is a substitute for mortification, and is, at the same time, a proof of a certain degree of strength ; for, if the patient's constitution were very weak, the same parts would mortify. (P. 453.) That press- ure is a frequent cause of ulceration, is also evinced by the occasional effects of chains on prisoners, and harness on horses. That irritating substances produce ulceration, needs no illustration. Progressive absorption may occur either with, or without suppuration. We have instances of the latter in cases of extraneous bodies, which travel about the body, without producing irritar tion enough to give rise to the secretion of pus. In the progress of aneurisms of the aorta, and of fungous tumors of the dura mater to the surface, the same fact is also illustrated. (P. 455.) Absorption with suppuration, in other words, ulceration, either happens in consequence of sup- puration already begun, in which event the pus acts as pressure; or else absorption attacks ex- ternal surfaces from particular irritations, or weakness, in which case, suppuration must fol- low. (P. 455.) The production of ulceration requires much greater pressure from without, than from within. The process is always disposed to take place more quickly, when near the surface of the body, and its progress becomes accelerated, in propor- tion as it arrives near the skin. I he adhesive inflammation precedes the sup- purative, and prevents the pus from becoming difiused, as soon as it is secreted, and when the cyst afterwards ulcerates, in order to let the mat- ter approach the skin, the adhesive inflammation still continues to go before the ulcerative pro- cess, and thus prevents the matter from insinua- ting itself into the interstices of the cellular sub- stance. ( P. 457.) The pain of ulceration is, in some degree, proportioned to its quickness. When ulceration begins on a surface, or takes place for the pur- pose of bringing matter to the skin, the pain is always considerable. When ulceration tabes place, in order to separate a dead part, as in sloughing, exfoliations, &c. there is seldom any particular pain. (P.459.) The ulcerating sore always exhibits little cavi- ties, while the edge of the skin is scalloped, and thin, at the same time, turning a little out, and overhanging, more or less, the ulcerated surface.- The face of the sore appears foul, and the dis- charge is very thin. When ulceration stops, the edges of the skin become regular, smooth, a little rounded, or turned in, and of a purple colour, covered with a semi-transparent white. (Hunter on Inflam- mation, cjc. p. 460.) The reader, desirous of further information, should particularly consult this last publication, and Professor Thompson's Lectures on Inflmn- matron, p. S49, Ac. ULCERS. Surgeons usually define an ulcer to be a solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, attended witli a secretion of pus, or some kind of discharge. In the present part of this Dictionary, there will not be occasion to speak of several kinds of sores, which have been treated of in other arti- cles. (See Cancer, Scrophula, and Venereal Disease.) Ulcers are divided into local and constitu- tional. As Professor Thomson has well ob- served, however, it is only within certain limits, that this distinction is well founded; for, an ulcer, which is at first completely local, may in time affect the system, so as to become consti- tutional; and ulcers, which derive their origin from some general affection of the system, may remain after the removal of the constitutional disorder, by which they were originally produced. ( Lectures on Inflammation,p. 427.) “Ulcers (says Dr. Thomson) have usually been distinguished from each other by the causes by which they are induced, by the symptoms which they exhibit, and by the parts of the body in which they occur. The want of a disposition to heal in a suppurating surface may depend upon some specific action in the cause from which it proceeds, upon something peculiar in the constitution of the patient in whom it exists, or merely upon an improper mode of manage- ment : and, hence, the distinction, that has long been made of ill-conditioned sores, or ulcers, into those which are specific in their nature, and into those which are simple. _ - “ Specific sores, or ulcers, may be occasioned by specific poisons, or by particular diatheses. The sores, or ulcers, which arise from specific