EPI lie had a small accelerated pulse; and was begin- ning to look thin. Such was the state of this wounded soldier, when Larrey saw him on the fifth day. After making a few inquiries about what had passed after the accident, attempting to make the pa- tient drink, and examining the interior of the mouth, Larrey was convinced, that the parox- ysms of suffocation, and the inability to swallow depended upon the permanent opening of the glottis, the lid of which had been shot away. The prognosis of the injury was exceedingly un- favourable. and there can be no doubt, that, if the patient had been abandoned to the resources i of nature, he would have died in the course of a few days. The indications were equally dif- ficult to fulfil: the most urgent was to appease the hunger and thirst, with which this poor sol- dier was afflicted. Larrey, fortunately, was pro- vided with an clastic gum tube, constructed for the oesophagus. This instrument was introduced with the usual precautions, into the pharynx, and by means of it, the patient was given some drink, which relieved him much, and afterwards some rich broth. The patient was fed in this manner for six weeks, at the end of which time, he was able, without the assistance of the tube, to swallow thick panado, and thickened rice, made into little balls. The powers of speech L and deglutition in time became much more per- I feet; in consequence, as Larrey imagines, of an I enlargement of tiie arytenoid cartilages, and an expansion of that part of the base of the tongue | which lies next to the glottis, having formed a j sort of substitute for the epiglottis. /’Menwires | de Cnirurgie Militairc, T. 2, p. 145—149.) The foregoing case illustrates, in a convincing manner, the importance and utility of elastic 1 gum tubes for conveying nourishment and me- dicines down the oesophagus in wounds about the throat. All practitioners, and, especially, mili- tary surgeons, should be duly impressed with the necessity of having such an instrument alwaj'S at hand. The patient, whose case is above re- cited, owed his preservation altogether to this means, without which he must have been starved I • <o death. In the 4th vol. of the above work, P. 247, 1 is recorded another case, in which a gun-shot 1 wound, that took away the epiglottis, and broke | the os hyoides, was successfully treated. EPIPHORA, (from itu^ipw, to carry with 1 force.) By this term is meant an accumulation j of tears on the anterior part of the eye; in eon- sequence of which, the person afflicted is not only under the necessity of frequently wiping them I away, but vision is injured by the morbid refrac- * t tion, which they produce of the rays of light that ► enter the pupil. Stillicidium lachrymarum is dis- d 1 tinguished by modern writers from epiphora: '! the cause of stillicidium lies in some obsta- | cle to the absorption and conveyance of the j ‘ tears from the lacus lachrymarum into the sac. * Epiphora, on the other hand, consists in a super- abundant secretion of tears, and is a disease of the secreting, not of the excreting parts, of the lachrymal organs. (See IK. M K tn le's Valuable hsroi/ on the Diseases of the Lachrymal Organs, P% 47, fivo. Land. 1819, and Beer Lehrc van den Aiigenkr. B. 2.) EPIPLOCELK. (from vnurhw, the omen- T ERY 423 turn, and a tumor.) A hernia, formed by a protrusion of the omentum. (See Hernia.) EPULIS, (from f7ri, upon, and u\ct, the gums.) A small tubercle on the gums. It is said sometimes to become cancerous. The best plan of cure is to extirpate it with a knife. ERETHISM US. (from to irritate.) The state of irritation, attending the early stage of acute diseases. Mr. Pearson has described a state of the constitution, produced by mercury acting on it as a poison. He calls it the mer- curial eietfiimus, and mentions, that it is charac- terized by great depression of strength, anxiety about the prrecordia, irregular action of the heart, frequent sighing, trembling, a small, quick, sometimes intermitting pulse, occasional vomit- ing, a pale contracted countenance, a sense of coldness; but the tongue is seldom furred, nor are the vital and natural functions much dis- turbed. In this state, any sudden exertion will sometimes prove fatal. Mr. Pearson advises, with a view of preventing the dangerous tend- ency of this affection, the immediate discon- tinuance of the use of mercury; and exposing the patient to a diy cool air. The incipient erethismus may often be averted by the cam- phor mixture with large doses of the volatile alkali, if mercury be also left off. Sarsaparilla is also beneficial, when the stomach will bear it. (Pear on Lues Venerea, page 156, £fc. Edit. 2.) ERYSIPELAS, (from iouv, to draw, and urs'Xas, adjoining.) St. Anthony’s fire; so called, from its tendency to draw the neighbouring parts into the same state, or, in other words, from its propensity to spread. Erysipelas may be defined to be an inflam- matory, cutaneous, and trivially elevated swell- ing, attended with a redness, which disappears, and leaves a white spot for a short time after being touched with the end of the finger, and the affection, which is not like phlegmon regu- larly circumscribed, is characterized by a remark- able propensity to spread. The part is generally of a bright red colour, clear, and shining. The tumor is not accom- panied by throbbing, and a burning heat and tingling are felt, rather than acute pain. In many instances, vesications arise; a circum- stance, which led Dr. Willan to include the dis- ease in the order Bailee. However, if we mean this arrangement to extend to what is named lo- cal, or accidental erysipelas, as well as to the idio- pathic forms of the disorder, there cannot be a doubt of its inaccuracy, many examples of erysi- pelas from local irritation being characterized neither by fever, nor vesications. The Greeks, admitting into their theories of medicine the metaphysical principles of philoso- phy, and the superstitious ideas of the Pythago- reans, respecting numbers, agreed in the exist- ence of lour elements, four radical qualities, four temperaments, and consequently four hu- mors and four species of tumors, produced by stagnation, or a diseased alteration of the hu- mors above mentioned. Phlegmon, according to their theory, was formed by the blood, erysipelas by the bilious, oedema by the pituitous, and scirrhus by the me- lancholic or atrabilious temperament. But as this theory was often contradicted by observation,