7G8 * LITHO tion, because, as soon as the nature of the ease is known, an incision should be made into tin; swell- ing, and the foreign body taken out. In many eases, also, small calculi may be voided by dila- ting the male urethra with elastic gum catheters of very large diameter, and then desiring the patient to expel his urine, with considerable force, a plan which Baron Larrey has found repeatedly answer. (See;;. 548 of this Dictionary.) Of late, Mr. Weiss, surgical instrument maker, in the Strand, has invented a kind of sound, the end of which, when in the bladder, admits of being opened, like a pair of forceps, and closed again, so as to grasp calculi under a certain size, and draw them out through the urethra. The instrument has been tried with great success by Mr. A. Cooper, tvlio removed with it from one patient at different times 84 calculi. And, even when the stone cannot be drawn completely out of the urethra, but only into this passage, it ih a great advantage, because, then it may be easily cut down to, and extracted, without anv wound, or injury of the bladder. (See A. Cooper in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 11.) I shall next describe the various methods of cutting for the stone, beginning with the most ancient, called the apparatus minor, and ending with the modern proposal of employing a knife in preference to a gorget. QF THE APPARATUS MINOR, CUTTING ON THE GRIPE, OR CELSUS’S METHOD. The most ancient kind of lithotomy was that practised upwards of two thousand years ago, by Ammonius, at Alexandria, in the time of He- rophilus and Erasistratus, and by Meges, at Rome, during the reign of Augustus; and, being described by Celsus, is named Lithotlioniia Cel- siana. From cutting directly on the stone, fixed by the pressure of the fingers in the anus, it has been called catting on the gripe, a knife and a hook being the only instruments used. The appellation of the lesser apparatus was given to it bv Marianus, to distinguish it from a method which he described, called the apparatus major, from the many instruments employed. The operation was done in the following way. The rectum was emptied by a glyster, a few hours previously ; and, immediately before cutting, the patient was desired to walk about his chamber, to bring the stone down to the neck of the blad- der ; he was then placed in the lap of an assistant, or secured in the manner now practised in the lateral operation. The surgeon then introduced the fore and middle fingers of his left hand, well oiled, into the anus; while he pressed with the palm of his right hand on the lower part of the abdomen, above the pubes, in order to promote the descent of the stone. With the fingers the calculus was next griped, pushed forward toward the neck of the bladder, and made to protrude, and form a tumor on the left side of the peri- neum. The operator then took a scalpel, and made a lunated incision through the skin and cel- lular substance, directly on the stone, near the anus, down to the neck oi the bladder, with tlie horns towards the hip. Then, in the deeper and narrower part of the wound, a second transverse incision was made on the stone into the neck of rOMY. the bladder itself, till the flowing out of the urine shewed, that the incision exceeded in Some de- gree the size of the stone. The calculus, being strongly pressed upon with the fingers, next started out of itself, or was extracted with a hook for the purpose. (Celsus, lib. 7, cap. 26. J. Bell's Principles, Vol. 2, p. 42. Allan on Lithotomy, p. 10.) The objections to cutting on the gripe, are; the impossibility of always dividing the same parts ; for, those which are cut will vary, accord- ing to the degree of force employed in making the stone project iri the perinacum. When little exertion is made, if the incision be begun just behind the scrotum, the uretlira may be altogether detached from the prostate: if the stone be much pushed out, the bladder may be entered beyond the prostate, and both the' vesieulae se- minales and vasa deferentia inevitably suffer. Lastly, if the parts are just sufficiently protruded, the bladder will be cut upon its neck, through the substance of the prostate gland. (Allan 7 Lithotomy. Burns, in Edinb. Surg. Journal. No. XIII. J. Bell, Vol. 2,p. 59.) The preceding dangers were known to Fabri- cius Hildanus, who attempted to obviate them by cutting on a staffj introduced through the urethra into the bladder. He began his incision in the perinaeum, about half an inch on the side of the raphe; and he continued the cut, inclining the knife, as lie proceeded, towards the hip. l ie continued to divide the parts till he reached the staff; after which, he enlarged the wound to such an extent, as permitted him easily with a hook to extract the stone, which he had previously brought into the neck of the bladder, by pressure with the fingers in the rectum. (Burns.) In this way Mr. C. Bell has operated with success. (J. Bell.) The apparatus minor, as practised by Fabri- cius, with the aid of a staff, is certainly a very simple operation on children, and some judicious surgeons doubt the propriety of its present neg- lected state. You cut, says an eminent writer, upon the stone, and make of course, with per- fect security, an incision exactly proportioned to its size. There is no difficult nor dangerous dissection; no gorget, nor other dangerous in- strument, thrust into the bladder, with the risk of its passing betwixt that and the rectum ; you are performing, expressly, the lateral incision of Raw and Cheselden, in the most simple and fa- vourable way. The prisca. shnplicitas instru- mentonnn seems here to have been deserted, for the sake of inventing more ingenious and com- plicated operations. (J. Bell. ) Celsus has delivered one memorable precept in his description of lithotomy, nt plaga paulo major qtiutn calculus sit; and he seems to have known very well, that there was more danger from lacerating, than cutting the parts. The simplicity of the apparatus minor, how- ever, formerly emboldened every quad: to under- take its performance; and as this circumstance was necessarily f ollowed by the evils and blunders, unavoidably originating from ignorance, and also diminished the emolument of regular practi- tioners, it became the grand cause of the down- fall of this operation. (See lleister on this sub- ject.) It was longer practised, however, than all