GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. 526 parts having been much injured. In one case, the point of the nose was carried off bv a cannon- ball, without respiration being at all affected; and in another very remarkable case, the exter- nal part ol the ear was shot awav, without even tlie power oi hearing being sensibly impaired.” (See Report oj Obstruations made m the British Military Hospitals in Belgium, fyc. bij John Thomson, n. 3:i, E lini. 1816'.) I could cite many cases, which I have seen myself, in proof of the truth of Le Vacher’s opinions; but, the point is now so universally admitted that I shall merely add one observation that occurred to the notice of many as well as myself. At the bombardment of the French fleet in the basin of Antwerp early in 1814, a cannon- shot shattered the legs of two officers so badly, that the limbs were amputated. These gentlemen were walking at the moment of the accident in the village of Merksam, taking hold of the arm of my friend assistant surgeon Stobo, of the 37th'regiment, who was in the middle. Now the ball, which produced the injury, did not the slightest harm to the latter gentleman, although it must have passed as close as possible to his lower extremities, and most probably between them. Neither can what have been improperly called, wind contusions, be attributed to an electrical shock on the parts, in consequence of the ball being rendered electrical by friction in the cali- bre of the gun, and giving off the electricity as it passes by; (Vide FlenEs Sammlungen, 1 Thsil. p. 99.) for, metals never acquire this pro- perty from friction. The mischief, imputed to the air, is occasioned by the ball itself. Its producing a violent con- tusion, without tearing the skin, and entering the limb, is to be ascribed to the oblique direction, in which it strikes the part, or, in other instances, to the feebleness with which the ball strikes the sur- face of the body, in consequence of its having lost the greater part of its momentum, and act- ing principally by its weight, being, in short, what is called a spent-ball. Daily observation evinces, that balls, which strike a surface ob- liquely, do not penetrate, but are reflected; though they may be impelled with the greatest force, and the body struck may be as soft and yielding as water. This alteration in the course of the ball, not only'happens on the surface of the human body, but also in the substance of a limb which it has entered. Thus, a bone, a tendon, &c. may change the direction of a ball which touches them at all obliquely. Hence, it is manifest, how it happens, that the track of a gun-shot wound is not always straight, and how balls sometimes run under the integuments nearly all round the body, or limb. The causes of several of the peculiarities, at- tending gun-shot wounds, are to be sought among the laws, by which moving bodies are governed, and by which, the mechanical effect of a ball, propelled against any part of the body, must therefore be determined. The form, the momentum, and the direction of the shot, that is received; the position, and the variety of struc- ture, or, in other words, the variety of density and powers of resistance, in the part receiving it; must always be considered, in order to ac- count satisfactorily for the effects, which it pro- duces. And, though, says Mr. Chevalier, in many cases, a mathematical explication of the course of a ball cannot be given ; this arises en- tirely from the want of data, the laws of matter being fixed and immutable. Hut, when the data ate known, as, for instance, the velocity and di- rection of the shot, the position of the patient, or of the wounded part at the time of the accident, and the structure of the parts penetrated, a much more probable conjecture of the course of the ball may generally be formed, than if these cir- cumstances had not been regarded. On the principle of the density and resistance of parts, attempts have been made to explain the reason of the concussion, or shock, which is given, in many instances, to the whole system by gun-shot wounds, and which is represented by writers on this subject, to be often attended with grave and even alarming effects, extending not only over the injured part, but affecting the system at large. Thus, a shot, striking against a tendon, or a bone, in one of the extremities, will produce a greater concussion, than if it struck only against softer parts. A shot, strik- ing a muscle in action, will produce more con- cussion, than if it struck against the same part of the same muscle at rest; and a shot, striking the head, or wounding the liver, lungs, or intestinal canal, will generally bring on instantaneous de- rangement of the whole system, with which the functions of these parts are so closely connected. (Seen Treatise on Gun-shot Wounds, by T. Che- valier, Part 1, sect. 7.) Respecting the mechanical effects of the con- cussion, I am disposed to think with Mr. Guthrie, that they have been rather exaggerated, and that in reality a more accurate explanation of the disorder of the system might be derived from other considerations ; “ a shot through the lungs (says he) will cause an instantaneous de- rangement of the whole system, but the resist- ance, afforded by the part, has little to do with it: it is the lesion of the organic functions, in- timately connected with life, that is the cause of the derangement. In the same manner, I do not conceive, that the general affection of the system depends alone on the shock received, but on the effect the injury committed has on the nervous system.” (On Gun-shot Wounds, p. 26', Ed. 2.) A ball, when it strikes a part of the body, may cause four kinds of injury. 1. It may only occasion a contusion, without penetrating the part, on account of its being too much spent, or of the oblique way in which it strikes the'sur- face of the body. 2. It may enter and lodge in the substance of a part; in which case, the wound has only one aperture. 3. It may pierce through and through; and then there are two openings, one at the entrance, the other at the exit of the ball. The circumference of the aper- ture, where the shot entered, is usually depressed! that of the opening, from which it came out, ele- vated; At the entrance, there is commonly more contusion, than at the exit of the ball. The for- mer opening is generally narrower; the latter wider, and more irregular, especially when the round smooth figure of the ball has been changed bv its having struck a bone. 4. A cannon-ball niay tear off'a whole limb. (Richter, AnJangsg. tier U'undaizn. B. !•)