AMPUTATION. 87 We shall next notice Mr. Key’s method. This gentleman is satisfied, that very near the ankle is not the most proper place for this kind of ampu- tation. Some cases occurring, in which, from a scro- phulous habit, the wound at the stump would not heal completely, nor remain healed, Mr. Hey determined to try whether amputation, in a more muscular part, would not secure a complete healing, and give the patient an opportunity of resting his knee on the common wooden leg, or using a socket, as he might find most convenient. Mr. Hey now prefers this method, and has re- duced it to certain measures. It had been customary, at the Leeds Infirmary, to make the length of the flap equal to one-third of the circumference of the leg. This was de- termined by the eye of the operator, who usually pushed the catling through the leg, near the posterior part of the fibula. Mr. Hey, finding the Hap was not always of the proper breadth, began to determine this by measure, and now operates as follows : to ascertain the place where the bones are to be sawn, together with the length and breadth of the flap, he draws upon the limb five lines, three circular, and two longi- tudinal ones. He first measures the length of ihe leg from the highest part of the tibia to the middle of the inferior protuberance of the fibula. At the mid-point, between the knee and ankle, he makes the first or highest circular mark upon the leg. Here the bones are to be sawn. Here Air. Hey also measures the circumference of the leg, and thence determines the length and breadth of the flap, each of which is to be equal to one- lliird of the circumference. In measuring the circumference of the limb, Mr. Hey employs a piece of marked tape, or riband, and places one end of it on the front edge of the tibia. Sup- posing the circumference to be twelve inches, lie makes a dot in the circular mark on each side of the leg, four inches from the anterior edge of the tibia. Pliese dots must, of course, be four inches apart behind. From each of these dots Mr. Hey draws a straight line downwards, four inches in length, and parallel to the front edge of the tibia. These lines show the direction which the catling is to take in making the flap. At the termination of these lines. Mr. Hey makes a second mark round the limb, to show the place where the flap is to end. Lastly, a third circular mark is to be made, an inch below the upper one, first made for the purpose of directing the circular cut through the integuments, in front of the limb. I he catling, for making the flap, should be longer than those commonly employed in amputations. Mr. Hey uses one which is seven inches long in the blade, and blunt at the back, to avoid making any longitudinal wound of the arteries, which is very difficult to close with a ligature ; and, for the same reason, he pushes the catling through the leg a little below the place where such mus- cles arc to be divided, as arc not included in the flap. J.he limb being nearly horizontal, and the fibula upward, he pushes the catling through the leg, where the dot was made, and carries it down- # Wanl along the longitudinal mark, till it ap- proaches the lowest circular mark, a little below which the instrument is brought out. The flap ,nf5 held back, Mr. Hey divides the integu- nients on the front of the limb along the course 0 the second circular mark. The muscles not included in the flap, are then divided a little be- low the place where the bones are to be sawn. No great quantity of these muscles can be saved, nor is it necessary, as the flap contains a sufficient portion of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, to make a cushion for the ends of the bones. After sawing the bones, Mr. Iley advises a little of the end of the tendon of the gastrocnemius to be cut off, as it is apt to project beyond the skin, when the flap is put down; and lie recommends the large crural nerve, when found on the inner surface of the flap, to be dissected out, lest it should suffer compression. As strips of adhesive plaster cause great pres- sure on the end of the stump, Mr. Hey prefers using sutures for keeping the flap applied; small strips of court plaster being put between the ligatures. The sutures may be cut out on the eighth or ninth day, and the flap supported by plasters. Mr. C. Bell describes another sort of flap- amputation. The operation is not to be done so low, as there will not be a sufficiency of muscle to cover the end of the bones. An oblique cut is to be made, with the large amputating knife, up- ward, through the skin of the back part of the leg. The assistant is to draw up the skin, and the knife is to be again applied to the upper mar- gin of the wound, and carried obliquely upward till it reaches the bones. The knife, without being withdrawn, is next to be carried, in a circular direction, over the tibia and fascia, covering the tibialis antieus, until it meets the angle of the first incision on the outside of the limb. The surgeon is then to pierce the interosseous mem- brane, &c. The sawing being completed, and the arteries secured, the flap is to be laid down, and the integuments of the two sides of the wound will be found to meet. (Operative Surgery, vol. 1.) Langenbeck disapproves of the plan of pushing the knife through the calf of the leg, as practised by Alanson, Hey, Graefe, &c. be-_ cause an inexperienced surgeon may run the point between the two bones, and in this way the wound is never made evenly. His manner of forming the flap is very similar to Mr. C. Bell’s, except that he makes first three cuts in the in- teguments, two longitudinal and one transverse, by which the shape of the flap of skin is deter- mined. (Bibl.J'ur die Chir. B. \. p. 571.) The regular flap-amputation of the leg, I mean that operation in which the circular incision is abandoned, and a semi-circular flap both of skin and muscle preserved, is often considered more painful than the common method, because it cannot be done with equal celerity. Yet, when we come to see what respectable names are re- corded in its favour, how soon the stump gener- ally heals, how well the ends of thebones are cover- ed, and how all dissection of the integument s from the fascia is avoided in this modeot operating, at least as far as the flap extends, the method must be allowed to possess weighty recommendations. In- deed in its present improved state, and with the peculiar fitness of. such a stump for adhesion, this operation, I think, is again rather rising m the estimation of the profession. In 181G, Klein had performed flap-amputation of the leg, about twenty times. If the flap should happen to be made too large, he particularly dwells on t ie propriety of removing part of it at once; and, when it is too short, he enjoins carrying the m-