.^40 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. are fractured, ruptured, and lucerated. For the same reason, it sometimes happens, that the vis- cera are similarly injured. At first sight, all the parts appear to be entire ; but, a careful examination will not let us remain long in doubt about the internal mischief. In this case, an ecchymosis cannot manifest itself outwardly, because the vessels of the skin, which communicate with the internal parts, are rup- tured, because the extravasation of blood natu- rally takes place in the deep excavations, occa- sioned by the rupture of the muscles and other parts, and because this fluid cannot make its way through the texture of the skin. Such extrava- sations can only be detected by the touch. The foregoing reasoning is supported by expe- rience. How often, says Larrey, have we not seen the ball carry away pieces of helmets, hats, cartridge-boxes, knapsacks, or other parts of the soldier’s dress, without doing any other injury? The same ball, perhaps, takes off his arm, often at a time, when it is closely applied to the body of his comrade, and, yet, the latter does not re- ceive the slightest harm. The shot may pass betwixt the thighs, and these members hardly exhibit an ecchymosis at the points, which are gently grazed; the only example, in which ec- chymosis does occur. In other instances, the ball severs the arm from the trunk, and the func- tions of the thoracic viscera are not at all in- jured. Baron Larrey then relates the following case, which is analogous to one, which I saw near Antwerp, and have already mentioned in the foregoing columns. M. Meget, a captain, marching in the front of a square of men, in the heat of the battle of Altzey, 30th March, 1793, had his right leg almost entirely carried away by a large cannon-shot, without the contiguous limb of his lieutenant, who was as fclose as possible to him, receiving the least injury The violent general commotion excited, and the extreme severity of the weather, made this officer’s condition imminently perilous. The progress of the symptoms, however, was checked by amputation, which was instantly performed. M. Meget was then capable of being conveyed to the hospital at Landau, fifteen leagues from the field of battle, where he got quite well. Larrey declines relating numerous other ana- logous amputations, which he has been called upon to practise under the same circumstances. M. Buffy, a captain of the artillery of the army of the Rhine, was struck by a howitzer, his left arm being injured, and his head so nearly grazed, that the corner of his hat, which was placed for- wards over his face, was shot away as far as the crown. This officer, the skin of whose nose was even torn off, was not deprived of his senses, and he was actually courageous enough to con- tinue for some minutes commanding his company. At length he was conveyed to Larrey’s am- bulance, who amputated his arm: in about a month, the patient was well. Larrey expresses his belief, that what have been erroneously termed wind contusiona, it at- tended with the mischief above specified, require immediate amputation. 1 he least delay makes the patient’s preservation extremely doubtful. The internal injury of the member may be ascer- tained by the touch, by the loss oi motion, by the little sensibility retained by the parts, whidlij have been struck; and, lastly, by practising ad incision, as already recommended. In order to confirm the principle, which lain' endeavours to establish, in opposition to manll , writers, Larrey indulges himself with the fo|l lowing digression. At the siege of Roses, two cannoniers, havinlj nearly similar wounds, were brought from thlj trenches to the ambulance, which Baron Larresl had posted at the village of Palau. They had been struck by a large shot, which, towards th|| • termination of its course, had grazed posteriorljl s both shoulders. In one, Larrey perceived 41 t slight ecchymosis over all the back part of th« 1 trunk, without any apparent solution of conti.l i. nuity. Respiration hardly went on, and the matt I spit up a large quantity ol frothy vermilion bloodjfj The pulse was small and intermitting and the! > extremities were cold. He died an hour afteiM the accident, as Larrey had prognosticated.If, This gentleman opened the body, in the presencMa of M. Dubois, inspector of the military hospitals! of the army of the eastern Pyrenees. The skinlf was entire; the muscles, aponeuroses, nerves,! i and vessels of the shoulders were ruptured andj . lacerated, the scapulae broken in pieces, the spi-fr: nous processes of the corresponding dorsal ver-ji tebrae, and the posterior extremity of the adja-l cent ribs, fractured. The spinal marrow badli'j suffered injury; the neighbouring part of the»l j lungs was lacerated, and a considerable extrava-.fi sation had taken place in each cavity of the chest. | The second cannonier died of similar syia- Iv ptoms, three quarters of an hour after his arri- f val at the hospital. On opening the body, the r same sort of mischief was discovered, as in the E preceding example. In the German campaigns of the French J armies, Larrey met with several similar cases, i and accurate examination has invariably con- vinced him of the direct action of a spherical body, propelled by means of gunpowder. Siith cast. According to Baron Larrey, when the articular heads are much broken, especially those which form the joints of the foot, or knee, and the ligaments, which strengthen these articu- lations, are brojeen and lacerated, by the fire of a howitzer or a grape shot, or other kind of ball, jl immediate amputation is indispensable. The ij same indication would occur, were the ball h lodged in the thickness of the articular head of a * bone, or were it so engaged in the joint, as not to admit of being extracted by simple and ordi- nary means. (See also Guthrie on Gun-shot j Wounds, p. 197.) Fractures extending into the joints, and ac- j companied with great laceration of the ligaments, i were cases of gun-shot injuries pointed out by j M. Faure, as indispensably requiring immediate amputation. (See Pr x ae I'Amd. at Chiu T< j 8.) Thus we see, that this author was not so .» averse to early amputation as several modern j writers have represented. It is only in this manner, that the patients can be rescued from the dreadful pain, the spasmodic j affections, the violent convulsions, the acute ; fever, the considerable tension, and the general inflammation of the limb, which, Larrey observes, are the invariable consequences of bad fractures of the large joints. But, adds this author, if thfc