w 1040 TONSILS. wide, and depress the tongue with any flat in- strument, which is to he held hy an assistant. The operator is then to take hold of the diseased tonsil with a tenaculum, and with a common scalpel, having the back half of its blade covered with rag, lie now removes as much of the tonsil, as ought to be taken atvay. In common cases, it is deemed sufficient to cut on a level with the pillars of the velum pendulum palati. Any other portion, needing removal, should next be taken away. The operation being finished, the patient is frequently to wash his mouth with pro- per gargles. The preceding method was long adopted by Desault. However, one objection is urged against it, viz. that, when the end of the knife is conveyed far into the mouth, it may do mischief, not (as lias been alleged) to the internal carotid artery, the backward situation of which com- pletely keeps it out of all danger of being wound- ed, but to the membranous covering of the pa- late, in a place not corresponding to the tonsils. Desault thought this objection was the more for- cible, as when the hook is introduced into the tonsil, the danger of the above mischief is con- siderably increased by a general spasm, which seems to affect every part of the mouth. Hence, this eminent surgeon used to employ, for the removal of diseased tonsils, an instrument, which was first invented for dividing cysts of the blad- der. It consisted of a sharp-edged blade, which was included in a silver sheath. The latter had at its extremity a kind of notch, in which the gland, which was to he extirpated, was received. The rest of the instruments were similar to those commonly used. Desault proceeded as follows : 1. The patient being seated on a high chair, with his head supported on an assistant's breast, he is to open his mouth very wide, and the lower jaw is to be kept thus depressed, by some solid body placed between the teeth, and held there by an assistant. 2. The tongue is to be kept down with a broad spatula. 3. The surgeon is next to take hold of the tonsil with a double hook, with which he is to raise and draw it a little towards him. He is then to take the above evstitome, and put the tonsil in the notch, on a level with the place, where the incision is intended to he made. 4. When the portion, which is to be cut off, is engaged in the notch, the operator is to draw the part towards him, so as to stretcli it, and press the instrument against it from below up- ward. The blade being next pushed across the notch, the necessary section is accomplished. When the division is not complete, which is par- ticularly liable to happen, when the diseased gland is of considerable magnitude, the blade is to he drawn back, and the section completed hy applying the instrument to the wound, which it lias already made. Sometimes, even a third ap- plication may possibly become requisite. 5. The patient is to he directed to wash his mouth. Bichat states, that this plan of opera- ting, adopted by Desault, is as simple, and easy as the method above related, with the advantage of being safer. Such is the construction of the blade of the instrument, that when it slides across tiie notch, it presses against, and steadily fixes the parts, which are to he divided ; an advantage which neither the knife nor seissars have, under the action of which the parts are quite moveable. Hence, there is difficulty in cutting them. When tiie introduction of the instrument from above downward, is difficult, it is better to withdraw it; and, after turning the notch in the opposite direction, pass it from below upward. In ge- neral, however, the first of these methods is pre- ferable, because the gland, when half cut through, cannot now fall back and obstruct the rima glot- tidis, so as to bring on danger of a sudden suf- focation ; a circumstance which Wiseman and Moscati saw happen. With a view of prevent- ing this occurrence, Louis recommended the common scalpel to be used, with its edge directed upward, as has been advised for the above in- strument; which latter contrivance, however, being, according to Bichat’s account, more easy and safe, merits the preference. Besides the ad- vantage of fixing the soft parts, which are to be cut, it lias that of not contusing them, like most other instruments of this nature, as, for instance, seissars. The oblique disposition of its "blade enables it to divide parts, in the manner of a saw. This invention, as Bichat allows, is certainly increasing the number of surgical instruments; a thing, which all the best modern surgeons en- deavour to avoid. But, it is to be recollected, that this instrument is not exclusively applicable to any particular operation. It may he employed for cutting away the tonsils and uvula; dividing membranous fraena in the rectum, vagina, and bladder; amputating fungous excrescences, po- lypi of the nose, (if this mode of extirpating them were preferred) and various tumors in ge- neral, which are deeply situated in different cavi- ties of the body, where instruments introduced unguardedly might injure parts which should he avoided, or where the base of the tumor should be steadily fixed, when its division is to he ac- complished. The latter object cannot safely he effected by seissars. When the base of the tu- mor is too large to be received in the notch, one part is first to he divided, and then another, till its whole thickness is cut through. In England, when a diseased tonsil is to he cut away, surgeons generally prefer a common scalpel. As a general practice, I consider, that the ex- cision of an enlarged tonsil, is a better practice, than the extirpation of it with a ligature, which also sometimes answers very well, and, perhaps, in children and timid patients may merit the preference. The chief objections to the li- gature are, that its operation is rather tedious, sometimes productive of a great deal of irrita- tion, and, on the whole, at least as painful, as the knife. Moscati having once adopted this plan, very severe pain and inflammation ensued ; the diffi- culty of swallowing and breatliing compelled him to amputate the tumor at the place wfieie the ligature was applied, and all the bad sym- ptoms immediately eeased. Besides, when the ligature is used, there is no oozing of blood from the vessels, a circumstance, which tends so much to diminish the inflammation. The base of the swelling is also sometimes broader Ilian its upper part, and does not admit of being properly surrounded with a ligature. And, vrliett