CATARACT. 323 been strongly and ably recommended by Mr. Hev, of Leeds, and Professor Scarpa, of Pavia. In the cases of children, it even received the approbation of the late Mr. Ware, who informs us! that ho and his son had performed a similar operation on a considerable number of infants and voung persons with uniform success. (On the Operatin'! of Puncturing the Capsule of the Crystalline Humor, p. 9.) But, notwithstanding the utility and efficacy of lacerating the front layer of the crystalline capsule had been so much insisted upon by •Scarpa and others, their observations were con- nned to the cataract in the adult subject, and, adore the example set by the late Mr. Saunders, io one (excepting, perhaps, Mr. Gibson of Manchester) ventured to apply, as a regular and successful practice, such an operation to the eyes nf infants and children. Indeed, it seems highly arobable, that even Mr. Gibson himself would save remained silent upon the subject, had not iiis attention been roused by the reports of the London Institution for curing diseases of the eye, Inch reports, he says, were dispersed and ex- hibited in the public news rooms of Manchester. Mr the creation and perfection of this beneficial ractice, therefore, I am disposed to give the lemon-of Mr. Saunders great honour. The prop- riety of operating for the cataracts of children ad long ago been insisted upon by a few writers, ad the attempt even now and then made ; but, le method never gained any ground, until Mr. launders led the way. It only remains for me to describe the plans operating, as executed by Mr. Saunders, Mr. ibson, and Mr. Ware. The principle, on which Mr, Saunders pro- dded in his operations on the congenital cata- ct, was founded on the opinion, that the only istacle to the absorption of the opaque lens is e capsule ; and that as the latter also is most merallv opaque, “ the business of art is to effect permanent aperture in the centre of this mem- ane. This applies to every case of congenital | taract, which can occur.” Mr. Saunders used overcome the difficulty of operating upon ildren, by fixing the eyeball with Pellier’s ele- tor, having the patient held by four or five | sistants, dilating the pupil with belladonna, d employing a very slender needle, armed with cutting edge from its shoulders to its point, d furnished with a very sharp point, calculated penetrate with the utmost facility. Before the operation, the extract of belladonna, uted with water to the consistence of cream, is i be dropped into the eye, or, to avoid irrita- n, the extract itself may be smeared in con- 1 erable quantity, over the eyelid anil brow, le-s than an hour, if there be no adhesions, it iduces a full dilatation of the pupil, exposing view nearly the whole anterior surface of the aract. The application should then be washed m the appendages of the eye. In using the needle, Mr. Saunders most care- !y abstained from doing any injury to the yitre- * humor, or its capsule, atnl it was an essential nt with him to avoid displacing the lens. In ccting the extremity of the instrument to the itre of the capsule, lie passed it either through : cornea, near the edge of this membrane, (the ? -ratioq now called feeratonyxis,) or through the sclerotica, a little way behind the iris. By the first, which is called the anterior operation, Mr. Saunders conceived, that less injury would be inflicted, and less irritation excited,’than by in- troducing the needle behind the iris, through all the tunics of the eye. In every case, the first thing aimed at was the permanent destruction of the central portion of the capsule to an extent equal to that of the natural size of the pupil. If the capsule contained an opaque lens, Mr. Saun- ders used next to sink the needle gently into the body of the crystalline, anil moderately open its texture; cautiously observing not to move the lens at all out of its natural situation. When the case was a fluid cataract, Mr. Saun- ders was content in the first operation with simply lacerating the centre of the capsule, being desirous of .avoiding to increase the irritation following the diffusion of the matter of the cataract in the aqueous humor. When the cataract was entirely capsular, Mr. Saunders acted with rather more freedom, as he entertained in this case less fear of inflammation; but, in other respects, he proceeded with the same objects in view, which have been already related, and of which the principal consisted in effecting a permanent aperture in the centre of the capsule, without detaching this membrane at its circum- ference; for then the pupil would have been more or less covered by it, and the operation im- perfect, “ because this thickened capsule is never absorbed, and the pendulous flap is incapable of presenting a sufficient resistance to the needle to admit of being removed by a second operation.” (P. 145.) I have already explained, that Mr. Saunders found, that the greatest success attended the operation between the ages of eighteen months and four years. One operation frequently ac- complished a cure; as many as five were seldom requisite. The only particularity, in Mr. Saunders’s treatment of the eye after the operation, was that of applying the belladonna externally, for the purpose of making the pupil remain dilated, till the inflammation had ceased, so as to keep the edge of the iris from contracting adhesions with the margin of the torn capsule. In leaving this part of the subject, I must advise every surgeon to read the interesting account of Mr. Saunders’s practice, published by his friend and colleague, Dr. Farre. Many minute particulars will be found in this work, highly worthy of the practi- tioner’s attention and imitation. Mr. Gibson appears to have been unacquainted with the usefulness of the extract of belladonna in preparing the eye for the operation. A few hours before operating, be was in the habit of ordering an opiate, sufficient to produce a con- siderable degree of drowsiness, so that the infant generally allowed its eyelids to be opened, and properly secured without resistance, and was lit- tle inclined to offer any impediment to the intro- duction of the couching needle; but, on the con- trary, presented the selerotica to view, naturally turning up the white of its eye. If the infant was more than a year old, and whenever it was necessary, Mr. Gibson used to introduce its body and arms into a kind of sack, open at both ends, and furnished with strings to draw round the. neck, and tie sufficiently tight round the legs, so