CATARACT. 321 tho iris is more or Jess injured, especially with the convexity of a curved needle. In addition to these considerations, Beer urges against this method all the objections, which apply to the practice of reclination through the sclerotica. After the lens and capsule have been effectually cut in pieces, the same light mode of dressing and the same after-treatment are proper, which are adopted in cases of depression and reclination. Beer also particularly objects to any trials being immediately made of the eyesight. At the same time, he assures us, that he has not met with any of the instances, so frequently mentioned in books, of persons, on whom keralonyxis has been done, seeing perfectly well, and having quite a clear pupil in a few days : under the most favourable circumstances, several weeks, and sometimes as many months, elapsed, before the pupil became quite transparent. According to Beer, keratonyxis is not liable to many accidents. Sometimes, says he, the arti- ficially dilated pupil contracts, as soon as the needle has pierced the cornea, and reached the cataract: in this circumstance, the operator must wait quietly, until the pupil gradually expands again, a change, which may be promoted by screening the eye with the hand. If the opera- tion were to be continued without delay, either the pupillary edge of the iris would be seriously and dangerously hurt by the needle, or the cata- ract could not be effectually divided. When, contrary to expectation, the nucleus of the cata- ract is too hard to be broken piecemeal, reclina- tion and depression should be done through the cornea, as well as circumstances will allow, and these objects can be more easily effected with a part, than with the whole, of the lens. When the lens is found completely fluid, but the capsule opaque only at some points, Beer, with the view of preventing a secondary capsular cataract, re- commends cutting the membrane in all directions, and annihilating it as much as possible. Kera- tonyxis may be followed by the same evils, which occasionally take place after depression and re- clination, and which will require similar treat- ment. But, according to Beer’s experience, one of the most frequent consequences is a secondary capsular cataract, which often ensues even though the pupil was quite clear at the time of the operation, and though it may not quite blind the patient, it considerably lessens his power of vision, and renders the operation very in- complete. V* hen the sole object of keratonyxis is to break and cut the cataract and its capsule piecemeal, md the fragments are to be left to dissolve and 1 coe absorbed, the operation can be indicated only vnrre this division, breaking, dissolution, and lbsorption of the cataract, can be successfully •.vrought. Hence, Beer sets down the method us not calculated for firm, hard, lenticular cata- 'acts; nor for those which are softish and sea- nous only upon their surface; ahd, he says, that t is not suited for capsulo-lenticular cataracts, lor for any cases, termed false cataracts, which Ue of a membranous nature. Keratonyxis, he ryes, may be expected to answer only in fluid a*'n0US cataracts, when the capsule is cither | or not at all opaque and thickened, and of ourse can be easily opened and cut to pieces, as n 1 e case described under the name of encysted cataract. For the above reasons, the method is well adapted for children and voung subjects, in whom the origin and general complications of a cataract involve the case in suspicious circum- stances. Langenbcck, who has practised keratonyxis to a considerable extent, thinks extraction preferable to it only when the whole cataract can be brought out at once, by means of gentle pressure on the eye, and with the aid of Daviel’s curette, as in the case of a firm cataract; while lie represents keratonyxis as most advantageous, where, bv the manoeuvre of opening the capsule, the mass of the cataract would be so divided by the instru- ment as not to admit of being extracted altogether; but, w’ould require the use of a scoop, forceps, or hook for bringing out the fragments, as in exam- ples of soft, milky, and capsular cataracts. Lan- genbeck also urges, as a reason against extract- ing soft cataracts, their greater size, whereby in their passage through the pupil in an entire state, they may injure the iris. (Neue Bibliothekjuv die Chir. I. B. p. 461.) Valuable informa- tion on keratonyxis has been published by tho same author in the 4th vol. of his first Bibliothek, in the 1st vol. of his new Bibl. p. 1, &c. 1815; and in a tract entitled “ PruJ'ung der Keratonyxis einer Methnde den grauen Stuar darch die llorn- haut zil reclinirr.n, oder zuzersluckcln nebst erlau- teriulen Operations geschichlen. Gottingen. 1811. See also G. II. Buchor/i’s Diss. <le Keratonyxide ; Halie. OF THE CONGENITAL CATARACT, AND OPERATING UPON CHILDREN. I shall not stop here to enquire, whether tho expression congenital cataract is generally used with strict propriety ; but, it is worth noticing, that the term is reprobated by Beer as being in general incorrectly applied. So much has been already said in a preceding- section of this article, concerning the propriety and striking advantages of operating for the cata- racts of children, that to expatiate further upon this point would be a mere waste of time. We have noticed the case, which Scarpa terms the primary membranous cataract, and which is mentioned by that distinguished professor, as being met with in children, or young people, under the age of twenty, the substance of the crystalline itself being almost entirely absorbed, while the capsule is left in an opaque state, in- cluding, at most, only a small nucleus, not larger than a pin’s head. This disease is described by Scarpa as being exceedingly rare, and charac- terised by a certain transparency, and similitude to a cobweb; by a whitish opaque point, either at its centre, or circumference; and by a streaked and reticulated appearance. Now, this example, which is represented by Scarpa, as being rare, appears, from the experience of Mr. Saunders, to be by no means uncommon, since, at the London Infirmary for curing diseases of the eye, it lias been found, that the majority of congenital cata- racts are capsular, or membranous. This last statement is also at variance with that of the late Mr. Gibson, who lias asserted, that, in infants, the cutaract is generally fluid. (Edial), Med. and Surgical Journal, Vol. 7, p. 3!)7.) Mr. Ware also asserts, that, in children, born with cataracts, Y