CATARACT. to that state soon after birth. So that this im- pediment to the easy introduction of the needle does not exist in infants a few months old. The operator also has it in his power to administer a dose of opium, sufficient to render the steps ne- cessary to expose the eye, almost entirely dis- regarded by his patient. With respect to the state of the eye itself, but, particularly, that of the cataract, %his is more favourable for the opera- tion, than any future period of life. In infants, the cataract is generaUtj fluid, and merely requires the free rupture of its containing capsule, which is in that case generally opaqUe. The capsule, however, is tender, and easily removed by the needle, so as to leave an aperture sufficiently large for the admission of light- The milky fluid, which escapes from the capsule, is soon removed by absorption. If, on the other hand, (says Mr. Gibson) the cataract should be soft, it is gener- ally of so pulpy a softness, that the free laceration of the anterior part of its capsule, and the conse- quent admission of the aqueous humor, ensure its speedy dissolution, and disappearance, without the necessity of a second operation. Should the cataract happen to be hard, there will be no more difficulty in depressing it, than in an adult. So uniformly favourable is the state of the cataract to the success of the operation, that I may ven- ture to pronounce, that an operator of common experience and expertness, will seldom fail of suc- cess, if he can, in an adult, depress a hard cata- ract, or rupture the containing capsule, and break down the substance of a soft, or fluid cataract when it occurs. “Such (continues Mr. Gibson) are the advan- tages, derived from the age of the patient, and state of the eye, which would induce an operator to use the couching needle a few months after birth. If, however, a surgeon had even difficul- ties to encounter, which do not occur in adults, surely the invaluable benefit, conferred by ena- bling an infant to become an intelligent being, like other children, instead of remaining in a state approaching to idiotism, would incline him to run some risk of failure, and to make more than com- mon exertions, especially as there is little chance of injuring the eyd, when proper cautions are used. Yet so important a consideration appears to have had little influence upon oculists, and hence, many children have been doomed to years of darkness, happy in the estimation of their parents and friends, if they could distinguish black from white; or discern any perceptible difference be- tween the brightness of the sun, and the glim- mering of a tallow candle. “ These advantages, which an operator will pos- sess, when he attempts the removal of a cataract in a child of a few months old, are peculiar to that period. In proportion as the age of the patient advances, until he arrives at the age of discretion, and can estimate, in some measure, the value of sight, by feeling its loss, the diffi- culties, opposed to the use of the couching needle, increase. His fears of the operation, the un- steadiness of the eye, and his power of retract- ing it within the orbit, present considerable, but not insuperable obstacles; such, however, as every surgeon would willingly dispense with, if he had it in his power. “ Before an operation,’ at an early age is re- commended, the practitioner ought (as at anyil; other agej to ascertain, that the cataract is hotllj complicated with a defective state of the retina,IX or with a complete amaurosis. Such cases arc|l by no means uncommon. Some years ago, I|F recollect to have seen five or six children, thcil families of two sisteis, who were all totally blind, Ll and in an idiotic state, with cataracts aceom-|| panied by amaurosis.’’ (Gibson Op. ti loco cit./ s I find also in this gentleman’s paper, somej§: arguments, which have been repeated in Mr. L& Saunders’s work. “ Few practitioners, at all con- i t versant with cases with blindness from birth, willji, deny, that, it is highly probable, that he eye may [I lose a considerable part of its original powers, fl from the mere circumstance of its having so long remained a passive organ. Hence, probably itjE happens, that, in some cases of congenital c-ata- i | ract, the only benefit conferred on the patient, byf| an operation, is that of enabling him to find his way in an awkward manner, and to discriminate If the more vivid colours. Such patients have never i. been able to discern small objects, or to judge, in I anyr useful degree, of figure or magnitude ; I am X well aware, however, says Mr. Gibson, that, in [ some rare instances, such a defective state of the ey7e exists from birth. “ Another circumstance, which must have at- : , traded the attention of oculists, is, that, in a few ■ y7ears, the eye 'of a patient born blind, acquires a j| restless and rolling motion, which is at length so 1 firmly established by7 habit, that he has little con- trol over it. This motion unfortunately7 con- n tinues, for a considerable time, after sight has been I restored to such a person, and is a very7 material I obstacle to the early7 attainment of a knowledge G of the objects of vision. He cannot fix his eye I steadily7 upon one point for a moment, and the in- jl convenience, which arises from this unsteadiness, 1* is, to such a person, occasionally as great a bar to I the distinct view of an object, as the unsteady I motion of the same object would be to one, whose vision is perfect. This inconvenience any one can | appreciate, and, as far as I know, it is completely avoided by restoring sight at an early7 age.” As a motive for operating on infants, Mr. Gib- ! son also comments on the loss of those years, which ought to be spent in education. (See Edinti \ Mrd. and Surgical Journal, Vol. 7, p. 394, 400.) When once it is decided to operate upon a cataract, the sooner the operation is generally done, the better, because the anxiety of the patient increases, as Beer says, with every day, nay, with every hour. Just before the operation, care must be taken not to let the patient eat a great deal, nor load his stomach with substances difficult of digestion ; and, if the stomach and bowels should already be disordered by what they7 contain, their contents ought to be carefully removed previously to the operation. In the same manner, if the sur- geon wish to keep off much inflammation, and tire patient should be constipated, this state must be obviated by7 suitable medicines. And, lastly7, when, at the request of die patient himself, the \ operation is deferred for a few days, the greatest caution must be used not to let him expose self to any causes, likely to bring on catarrhaV-J or rheumatic complaints, (/frer, 71. 2, p.344.) The following advice, delivered by Scarpa, wit respect to the preparation of patients for opera*