3 F 2 MERCURY. 'c03 ^abit of the patient, the temperature in which lie is kept, the nature of the preparation, and the quantity in which it is exhibited, its effects are, indeed, various. Sometimes, it more particularly increases one secretion; sometimes another; but its most characteristic effect is the increased flow of saliva, which it generally excites, if given in sufficient quantity. (Edhib. Dispensatory ) From the writings of Theodoric, it appears, that mercury was employed in the practice of medicine and surgery as early as the 13th cen- turv. Rut, its use in venereal cases was first mentioned in a tract by Almcnar, published in 1516'. (See Thompson’s Dispensatory, p. ‘20b, Edit. 2.) It has been said, that the efficacy of mercury in curing the venereal disease was an accidental discovery; but it seems more probable, that the good effects, which it produced in cutaneous dis- eases, first led to the trial of it in venereal eases, which being frequently attended with eruptions on the skin, ulcers, Ac., seemed to present an analog}- to the affections, in which mercury had already been found successful. In the times, immediately following the origin of the venereal disease, practitioners only ven- tured to employ this remedy with timorous cau- tion, so that, of several of their formulae, mer- cury scarce!}- composed a fourteenth part, and either on this account, or some difference in the disease itself at that period from what is now remarked, few cures were effected. On the other hand, the empirics, who noticed the little efficacy of these small doses, ran into the opposite ex- treme, and exhibited mercury in quantities so large, and with such little care, that most of their patients were suddenly attacked with violent sali- vations, frequently attended with very dangerous, and even fatal symptoms; or such as after making them lose their teeth, left them pale, emaciated, exhausted, and subject, for the rest of their lives, to tremblings, or other more or less dangerous affections. From these two very opposite modes of practice, there originated such uncertainty, respecting what 'could be expected from mer- cury, and sucli fears of the consequences, which might result from its employment, that every plan was eagerly adopted, which offered the least chance of cure, without having recourse to this mineral. A medicine, however, so powerful, and whose salutary effects had been watched by attentive practitioners amidst all its inconveniences, could not sink into oblivion. After eflorls had been made to discover an equally efficacious substitute for it, and it had been seen, how inferior other means were, on which the highest praises had been lavished, the attempts to extend its utility were renewed. A medium was pursued, between the too timid methods of those plivsieians, who had first administered it, and the inconsiderate boldness of the empirics. Thus the causes, from which both patties failed, were avoided; the character of the medicine was revived in a more durable way, and from this period, its reputation lias always been maintained. i lie renowned Paracelsus first taught practi- tioners that mercury might be given internally with safety; for, before he set the example, it had on y been externally employed, in three manners. ic first was in the form of an ointment or lini- ment; the second, as a plaster; and the third, as a fumigation. The basis of the ointment, or liniment, was quicksilver, which was blended, by means of trituration, with hog’s lard, goose’s fat, &c. and composed scarcely one-sixth or one-eighth of the whole; a proportion, however, much greater, than what had been at first employed. Rut from a fear, that the mineral might prove hurtful to the nerves, by the cold property, which they fancied it possessed, and that it might occasion numbness, tremblings, or palsies, they combined with it a multitude of ingredients of a warm, aro- matic nature, or supposed to possess such ; for example, oil of camomile, sesame-seeds, ani- seeds, the roots of zedoary, and the fiorentnie iris, and a thousand other substances, which were incorporated with the ointment. The members, joints, and the whole of the body, except the head, belly, and chest, were rubbed with this composition ; and the frictions were repeated, at suitable intervals, until obvious signs of saliva- tion appeared. The ingredients of the plasters resembled those of the ointments; only they contained less fat, for which was substituted a sufficient quantity of wax, to give them a proper consistence. This composition was applied to the skin, and the whole body was covered with it, excepting the parts, on which it was not usual to put oint- ment. The plasters were kept on, till salivation began. The fumigations were made with quicksilver, triturated with turpentine, or saliva, or else with cinnabar. These substances were mixed with fatty, or resinous ones, such ns myrrh, nutmeg, &c., and, all the ingredients being reduced to powder, were made into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of turpentine, or gum tragaeanth. The patient was then placed in a box made on pur- pose, or under a little kind of tent, out of which the head was generally allowed to protrude. A chafing-dish, containing burning coals, was placed near iiis feet, and, every now and then, bits of mercurial paste were thrown into the vessel. The patient was left exposed to the fumes, which arose, until lie broke out Into a profuse perspira- tion, which they took great pains to keep up and increase, by putting him into a warm bed, load- ing him with bedding, for about two hours, after which he was rubbed quite dry, and given some food. This plan was persisted in every day, till a salivation was produced, which was kept up as long as necessary. The method of fumigation is described by Astruc, and particular preparations, and apparatuses for the purpose, have been since recommended by Lalonette in France, and, more recently, by Abernethy in England. Of the three methods, which we have just de- scribed, only the first is at present much in use. and even this is considerably altered. It was found, not only, that mercurial plasters caused heat, redness, itching, and disagreeable eruptions, but, that the method was exceedingly slow and uncertain. ITcnce, plasters arc now only used as topical discutient applications. Fumigations, considered as the only means of cure, fell also into discredit, because, although they formed a method of applying mercury in a very active manner, they were, as ancienily managed, liable to several objections. In this