108 ANEURISM. preternatural dilatation of a part of an artery, as well as those swellings, which are occasioned by a collection of arterial blood, effused in the cel- lular membrane, in consequence of a rupture, or wound of the coats of the artery, receive the name of aneurisms. According to these opinions, aneu- risms are of two kinds; the first being termed true; the second spurious, or false. Some modern writers have ventured to reckon another form of aneu- rism, which is said to happen, when the external coats of an artery being weakened by mechanical injury, or disease, the internal coat protrudes through the breach in the outer coat, so as to form a tumor distended with blood. This case has been denominated the internal mixed aneu- risms, or aneurisma hernium arterial sistens. The reality of this form of disease was believed by Dr. W. Hunter; and some delicate experiments, in- stituted by Haller on the mesenteric arteries of frogs, appear to have been the first ground of the opinion. Such an aneurism, however, has not been universally admitted, not that any body doubted the correctness of what Haller advanced, but because there might not always be a perfect analogy between the results of an experiment on animals, and those afforded by tha observation of the diseases of the human body. When Haller asserted, that, by separating the muscular from the inner coat of the arteries, he could, when he pleased, produce an aneurism in these animals; and when Hunter declared, that such an experiment made the artery firmer, than ever, in consequence of the adhesive inflamma- tion taking place; the character and veracity of these eminent men naturally lead to the question, whether the experiments were conducted exactly in the same manner. Now, says Mr. Wilson, when we know, that Haller did not suffer the surrounding parts to unite, and that John Hunter did, we can no longer be at a loss to account for the different conclusions. (See Wilson’s Anatomy, Pathology, ifc. of the Vascular System, p. 378.) However this may be with respect to the experiments made on certain animals, I am disposed to consider it fully proved by Mr. J. Hunter, Sir E. Home, and Professor Scarpa, that in the human subject, an aneurism will not arise from the kind of weakness, which is caused by cutting or even stripping off, the external coat of a sound artery, whether the wound be closed or not- This fact would at least appear to be well ■established, with respect to the generality of the arteries; but, how far it is so in relation to the aorta, is another question, the inner membrane of which vessel is alleged to be more elastic, than that of common arteries. Dubois and Du- puytren, in fact, are stated to have presented to the Faculty of Medicine at Paris preparations, which exhibit the lining of the aorta protruding through the middle coat, in form of a sac filled with blood. (See Diet, des Sciences Med art. Aneurisme, and Breschct in Trans, of Mr. Hodg- son’s work, p. 130.) By the term mixed aneurism, Dr. A. Monro, senior, implied the state of a true aneurism, when its cyst had burst, and the blood was diffused in the adjacent cellular substance; an event which is frequent. Besides these varieties of aneurism, the aneurmmul vurix, or venous aneurism, and tho aneurism from anastomosis, constitute diseases*} ; which are usually regarded as cases pertainingjl i to the present subject, though incapable of being}] ji comprised under) the ordinary definition of and ■ aneurism. Nothing can be more manifest, than the fact, | that, previously to the discovery of the circula- tion of the blood, no correct, nor valuable opi- i nions, could have prevailed, respecting the dis- eases, which now go under the name of arieu- |j risms. Indeed, it was not until after the days 11 of Aristotle, that any distinction was made be- tween the swellings of veins and those of arteries, such vessels not having been at that early period distinguished from each other. Their differences were first pointed out by Rufus of Ephesus. (CEt. Ter tab. 4, Serm. 2, r. 51, col. 7lG.) Down to Galen, however, nothing like con- sistency was established in the notions respect- ing aneurism. His opinion was, that all tumours of this nature were produced either by anasto- mosis, or by rupture, and though he has de- scribed their symptoms, he has not informed us, of the characters by which each of these cases was distinguishable, one from the other. Paulus iEgineta divides aneurism into two sorts, both of which he says are attended with extravasa- tion, and of course with rupture. Vesalius, w’lio first applied anatomy to the in- vestigation of disease, has described an aneurism arising from the tvpiure of a dilated aorta; the first specimen, I believe, on record of this form of disease. (Bonetus Sepulch. Auar. lib. 4. Sect. 2.) The combination of rupture with dilatation of the artery, was afterwards more particularly noticed by Nuck. (Oper. Chir., df-c. Lugd.1692) It was Fernelius who first promulgated the doctrine, that aneurisms were always dilated arteries. (Unioersa Met kina, De Extern. Corps, Ajject. lib. 7. cap. 3, Venet. 15G4.) This opinion was espoused by Forrestus, Die- merbroek, and others; but at length, the in- accuracy of attempting to refer everv aneurism solely to dilatation of the coats of the vessel, was established by the observations of Lancisi, Friend, Guattani, and Morgagni. In short, as Mr. Hodgson has stated, these authors proved, that aneurism may be produced either by the rupture, or the dilatation of the coats of an artery, or by a combination of both circum- stances, the dilatation having preceded the rup- ture. (Otf the Diseases of Arteries, §c. 8do. Load. 1815.) This admission of aneurism by dilatation, and of aneurism by rupture of the coats of an arteiy, together with the frequent combination of both circumstances, was indeed the prevailing undis- turbed doctrine of every surgical school, until Professor Scarpa, inclining to the tenets of Syl- vaticus (Dc Aneurymate. Tract. Veuttiii, 1600, 4to.) ventured to question the correctness of the common opinion about the dilatation of all the arterial coats. However, after the very clear and satisfactory elucidation of this disputed point by my friend Mr. Hodgson, the accurate views of the first subject,Jaken by Morgagni, and the other eminent writers specified above, may be regarded as established beyond the possibility of dispute. At the same time, it is not to be supposed, that Scarpa means to say, that the arteries ate not