WOUN DS. 1181 feats of Taliaeotius, Garengeot, and others, o are said to have succeeded in effecting the on of parts, which were completely severed m the body. Several other not less extra- inary performances by modern surgeons are orded. (See Observations on Adhesion, with Cases, demonstrative of the Powers of Na- c to reunite parts, which have been by acci- t totally separated from the animal System, Wm. Balfour, Svo. Edinb. 1814.) Indeed, well-known practice of transplanting the ;h, the experiments of Duhamel and Hunter; the number and respectable character of the imonies upon this subject, fully convince me i he occasional success, which may attend the savour to bring about such an union. Expe- . ice also fully proves the frequent success, ch attends an endeavour to unite a part, ch retains only the slight connexion of a a ill piece of flesh, or even a few fibres. My ; ad,' Mr. Lawrence, lately had a case, which •strates the truth of this statement. A man, the top of a stage coach, was carried under a sway, which did not leave sufficient room for t to pass without injury, and his head was so i ch wounded, that one of his ears was entirely arated, with the exception of an attachment bv |i -ivial piece of integuments. Mr. Lawrence ented to the man’s wish of not having the aration completed, and fixed the part in its ation with a few sutures. The consequence that the ear soon united again, and the ent escaped all disfigurement. Of the know- ge of the disposition of living cut surfaces to •v together with considerable expedition, sur- ns, both of ancient and modern times, have tied themselves not only in the treatment of dental wounds, but also in the removal of irmity, as exemplified in the cure of fissures he palate, or lips, (see Harelip,) but most icularly in the curious and interesting art of ning new under-lips, and noses, and closing ;e deficiencies in the urethra with flaps of flesh, ed from the adjacent parts, shaped according •ireumstances, and laid directly down upon a h-cut surface purposely prepared, where it is dily confined for a certain time with sutures, | imple adhesive plaster, and pressure, as the . ire of the case may indicate. Nay, sometimes, flesh for the formation of the organ to be ored has even been taken from a distant part, or instance, from the arm, for the restoration arts of the face. When this was done, the _ > was confined in close contact with the raw J;ace formed on the face, until an union between n had been effected; a division was now per- ned with the scalpel, and the opportunity Tm to shape the portion of the limb,•which was »ie left behind, according as the part to be ored might be the ear, nose, or lip. At the ent day, the flesh is usually taken from the cent parts; a connexion of the flap with the Sof the body is retained, so as to insure some ulation of blood in it, and it is turned into position, which the circumstances may de- id. (See Caspar Taliaeotius, Chirurgia va de Narium, Aiirium, Labiorumquc i)c• a, per insitivnem cutis ex humero sarciendo, ' Uvo. Francof. 1598. ./. C. Carpuc, an 'ount of Two successful Operations for re- 1nS a fort Nose from the Integuments if the Forehead, 4to. Loud. 1816. Giuseppe Baromio, Degli Innesti AnimuH, 8vo. Milan. C. 1<\ Gracfe, De Rhinoplatrticc, sive Arte curtmn Nasum ad Vivum restit-uendi, commentatio, qua prisca illius ratio itcrum experiments illustratur novisque methodis ad majorem per- fectionem pcrducitur, 4to. Berol. 1818. Sir A. Cooper, on Unnatural Apertures in the Urethra ; Surgical Essays, Part ‘2. H. Earle, on the Reestablishment of a Canal in the place of a portion .of the Urethra, in Phil. Trans, for 1821. A Case of restored Nose, by Mr. C. Hutchison. A Case of artificial Anns cured by G. F. Collier, in Med. and Physical Journ. for June 1820. Mr. John Bell describes the process of adhe- sion to be this : either the arteries of the oppo- site surfaces inosculate mouth to mouth, or rather each cut-surface throws out a gluten; the gluten fills up the intermediate space ; into that gluten, the lesser arteries of each cut-surface extend themselves, and it is thus, perhaps, by the gene- ration of a new intermediate substance, that the continuity and entireness of the part are so quickly restored. If any one point fail to adhere, there the wound must run into suppuration ; be- cause, says Mr. J. Bell, at that point there is a separation of parts, which is equivalent to a loss of substance. The same writer observes, that there are, no doubt, accidents, both of the constitution and the wound, which will prevent adhesion. If the patient be of a bad habit of body; if he be lying in a foul hospital, in the midst of putrid sores, and breathing a contagious air; if be ill of a fever, or flux, or any general disease; then the properties of the body being less perfect, the wound will not adhere. Mr. J. Bell also notices, that, if the wound be foul, made with a poisoned weapon, or left with foreign bodies lodged in it; or if a considerable quantity of blood be poured out into the cavity of the wound , or if there be a wounded lymphatic, or a wounded salivary duct, a wounded intestine, or a bleeding artery or vein, the immediate adhesiop of the whole of the wound may be prevented. However, I cannot help re- marking, that, though Mr. John Bell, in imita- tion of most surgical writers, sets down the wound of a lymphatic, as preventive of the union of wounds, I cannot say, that I ever saw such an effect imputable to the cause just mentioned. Also, when an artery, or vein is cut, and requires to be tied, the adhesion of the wound would be prevented only just where the ligature lies, and at no other point, There is no wound, observes Mr. John Bell, in which we may not try with perfect safety to procure this adhesion; for nothing can agree better with one surface of the wound, than the opposite one, which has been just separated from it. They may immediately adhere together, and. even if they should not do so, no harm is done, and the wound will yet suppurate as favourably, ns if it had been roughly dressed with dry caddis, or some vulnerary balsam, or acrid ointment. If one part should suppurate, while one half adheres, then, says Mr. John Bell, one halt of our busi- ness is done. In short, this simple duty of im- mediately closing a wound is both natural and safe. (Discourses on the Nature and Cure of Wounds, Vol, 1.)