EXO 432 by an incision, and to apply caustic, or the actual cautery to it, in order to kill the pro- tuberant part of the bone, and make it exfoliate. In this country, most practitioners would prefer the employment of cutting instruments for re- moving such exostoses. When, however, the tumor lies deeply in the orbit, it cannot be got at, and, if it should resist the effect of mercurial medicines and mezereon, we are directed to ex- tirpate the eye. (Richter op. et loco cit.) Ab- scesses in the orbit ought to be opened, and after this has been done, the eye generally returns into its proper position. (Peltier.') When en- cysted tumors in the orbit admit of being extir- pated in the customary manner, the plan should be adopted; but, when this cannot be done, Richter’s advice may be followed, which is to open them, press out the contained matter, and afterwards extract the cyst. Considerable dif- ficulty, however, frequently attends every effort to remove the whole cyst, and, unless this be done, a permanent cicatrization cannot be ex- pected. (See Travers's Synopsis, p 225.) On account of the vicinity of the brain, and the communication between the parts within the orbit and the dura mater, the extirpation of tumors from that cavity is not exempt from risk of fatal consequences, as two cases, recently pub- lished by Langenbeclc, fully prove. (Neuc B>bl. B. 2, p. 211—244.) A young lady was refer- red to Mr. Lawrence and myself this spring, (1821,) by Mr. Maul of Southampton, for advice, respecting a tumor occupying the inner and upper portion of the orbit, and attended with a degree of exophthalmia, constant exacerbation at the period of the menses, and occasionally double vision. (See Diplopia.) We refrained from advising any immediate attempt at extirpation, the swelling being so firm and immoveable, that the disease was suspected to be partly of a bony nature. However, on seeing this case about a fortnight afterwards, I was surprized to find the tumor not more than half its former size, and all the firm and (what was conceived to be) bony induration below the superciliary ridge of the os frontisgone, as well as the exophthalmia, and derangement of vision. Some sharp bony irregularities, how- ever, could now be most plainly felt, projecting in front of the diminished swelling. In a late publication, a memorable case of ex- ophthalmia is related by Mr. Travers : the globe of the eye appears to have been gradually forced upwards and outwards, and to have had its mo- tions considerably impeded, in consequence of the orbit being partly occupied by two swellings, which were of the nature of the aneurism by anastomosis.—(See Aneurism.) The swellings could not have been removed, without at the same time extirpating the eye. Mr. Travers was therefore induced to try, whether applying a ligature to the carotid artery would have the efiect of checking and curing the disease; an ex- pectation, which was warranted by analogous in- stances, in which the growth of swellings, and their dispersion, are brought about bv lessening the quantity of blood determined to them. The experiment completely succeeded; the swel ings in the vicinity of the eye subsided; the patient was freed from several grievous complaints, to which she had been previously subject; and, amongst other benefits, a cure of the exophlhal- EXO mia was one result, which most interests us in tlie present place. The case is also highly im- portant on other accounts, and, more particularly, as confirming the fact, that the carotid artery may be tied, without any dangerous effects on the brain, and, as proving, that, in cases of aneurism, the surgeon should not be afraid of proceeding to sucli an operation. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vnl. 2, Ar/. 1.) The judgment and decision, with which Mr. Travers acted in this case, appear to me highly meritorious. The carotid artery has also been tied by Mr. Dalrymple, surgeon at Norwich, in a ca.se very similar to the preceding, and with equal success. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. ' 6, V• I 1 L#c.) When the causes of exophthalmia have been removed, the eye must be put into its natural situation. If the organ has been long displaced, the surgeon often finds the fulfilment of this in- dication attended with difficulty. Indeed, he is frequently obliged to employ methodical ban- dages for the purpose of promoting the gradual return of the eye into the orbit. Yet, even in such cases, the eyesight is often regained; but, if this should not happen spontaneous]}’, stimu- lants and tonics are to be tried. (See Amau- rosis.) Fab. Hildan centur. 6, obs. 1. Vander JViel, ccniur. 2 obs. 9. Puzo, obs. ana'. 23. Tutpius, lib. 1, cup. 28. Hope, in Phil. Trans for 1744. Louis sur plusiettrs Maladies du Globe de I’CEil, 5)'c. in illdm. de l'Acad, de Chirnrgie, T. 13, in 1 ‘dzmi. Brocklesby, in Medical Obs. and Enquiries, Vol. 4, p. 371. White’s Cases in Sur- gery, p. 131—135, cV-c. TFanicr’s Cases in Sur- gery, p. 108, Edit. 3. Lassus, Pathologic Chir. T. 2, p. 144, Edit. 2. Richerand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 1 17, Edit. 2. Mcri. Chir. Trans. Vol. 2, art. 1, Vol. 4; p. 3Ui, and Vol. 6, p. Ill, dfe. Richter's Anfangsgr. dtr 11 andarzn. B. 3, p. 406, )c., Gott. 1795. The matter in this last Work forms the basis of the foregoing observations. Langenbeclc, ISeuc Bill. B. 2. Pelilbeuu, in Jtmrv. de Med. par Corvisart, T. 14. EXOSTOSIS, (from s£, out, and cg-tov, a bone.) An exostosis is a tumor formed by an exuberant growth of bony matter on the surface of a bone, or, as Boyer says, it is formed by the more or less considerable enlargement of a part, or the whole, of a bone. (7 raite des Mai, Chir. T. 3, p. 541.) If bones resemble the soft parts of the body in their structure, they must resemble them in their diseases, and of course be liable to various kinds of tumors. Nay, an extraordinary increase of the size and density of all the bones of an individual has been observed, which affection ought probably also to be classed with the dis- ease, to which surgeons usually apply the term exostosis. The generality of writers, even the most mo- dern, have admitted many diseases among ex- ostoses, which ought to be considered in a very distinct light; I need only instance the spina ventosa. 1 One division of exostoses is into true and false ; the former being of a truly osseous con- sistence, the others being more or less hollow, spongy expansions of the bones, sometimes containing a quantity of fleshy, fungous matter