ABDOMEN. of Glasgow. Some of the pulsations here re- ferred to are a consequence of organic disease, capable of demonstration on dissection; while the rest are not attended with any such appearance, and have therefore been regarded as nervous. The pulsation is not always produced by the im- pulse communicated to some solid tumor, or substance between the hand and the artery, but is sometimes certainly dependent on a nervous a flection of the vessel itself. (On Di-eases of the Heart, 263.) Hippocrates, in his book « De Morbis Popularibus,” makes mention of three patients, affected with extraordinary pulsa- tions in the abdomen. As one of these cases originated from obstructed menses, it was pro- bably not the result of anjr organic disease. (H'ppocratis Opera Omn>a, ex edit. Fcesii. Fran- co/. 1621. lib. 5. sect- 7. p. 1144.) In order to remove a difficulty, which may be at first ex- perienced in believing how an artery, not affected with aneurismal enlargement, can communicate to the parts which lie over it such movements as are frequently remarked in cases of abdominal pulsations, a fact pointed out by Mr. Hunter should be remembered: in speaking of the actual dilatation of an artery, he says, that when the vessel is “ covered by the integuments, the apparent effect is much greater than it really is in the artery itself; for, in laying such an artery bare, the nearer we come to it, the less visible is its pulsation; and when laid bare, its motion is hardly to be either felt, or seen.” ( Treatise on the Blood, tfc. p. 175. 4(o. Load. 1794.) And this observation will apply to all tumors and indurations situated over a large artery. In the epigastric region of a certain patient, Taberranus felt not only a pulsation, but a tumor as large as the fist, with all the other usual symptoms of an aneurism. On opening the body after death, he was therefore surprised to find, instead of this disease, a considerable scirrhous tumor in the middle of the mesentery, so closely connected to the large vessels, as to compress the aorta, by the pulsations of which it had been lifted up. (0 >'. Amir. ed. 2. No. 9.) Dr. Albers quotes an extraordinary case from Tulpius : the patient, a laborious man,“but sub- ject to bilious attacks, was sometimes affected with violent throbbings of the spleen. These pulsations were not only very painful, but could be heard at a distance, and their number di- stinctly counted, when the hand was applied to the part. What seems almost incredible, it is al- leged, that Tulpius could hear them at the di- stance of thirty feet! Their violence increased, or diminished, according as the patient was more or less bilious, and sometimes they entirely ceased, when his health improved; but always recurred, as soon as the chylopoietic organs got out of order again. After the patient s death, permission could not be obtained to open the body. (Tulpii Observations Medico:. Arnst. 1652. lib. 2. cap. 28.) Hie case of a female, recorded by Pechlin, is then adduced, which consisted of a complication o symptoms, amongst which the only one, claim- ing attention here, was an annoying throbbing in the abdomen. The pulsation, which was quite evu ent, was felt by Pechlin when he placed his am upon the linea alba, and corresponded to c pu so at the wrist. The patient fancied, that a monster was in her abdomen; but Pechlin comforted her with the assurance, that the throb- bing was only the motion of the large artery, rendered perceptible by her extreme emaciation. She lived three years with this disease, suffering at times severely from convulsions, of which she at last died. Pechlin was informed, that before her death, her body was shortened two feet, the ribs being bent down to the ossa pubis, and the whole vertebral column curved forwards. (Pech- lini Obse.Yeationum Physico-Medicarum, libri tres. Hamhurgi, 1691, lib. 2, Obs. 6 ) According to Bonetus, pulsations in the left hypochondrium are not unfrequent, and it was his belief that they were produced by the cceliac artery. He cites several cases of this disorder from other writers, the tenor of which is to prove, that the coeliac artery and mesenteric vessels must have been affected, as they were found after death dilated and filled with black blood. (Se- pulchretuni Anatnmicum, lib. i.sect. 9. Obs. 9, 25, 27, 30, 38, 42, 44, 45, and 46.) > The con- jecture of Bonetus and others, however, respect- ing the frequency of abdominal pulsations from dilatation of the coeliac and mesenteric arteries, by no means coincides with the results of modem observations. Mr. Wilson, whose dissections have been very numerous, says, that he has met with only one instance of true aneurism, affecting any of the branches of the aorta, which are dis- tributed to the abdominal viscera. This case was an aneurism of the left branch of the hepatic artery. (Lectures on the Blood, and on the Ana- tomy, Physiology, and Surgical Pathology of the Vascular System, df-c. p. 379. 8vo. Lond. 181,9.) Bontius was present at the opening of an inha- bitant of Batavia, who bad been afflicted three years with a disease, the exact nature of which could never.be made out during life. When the hand was applied above, or below the navel, a pulsation was felt like that of the heart, or an artery, and as forcible as the motion of a child in the womb. It was synchronous to the pulsation of the heart and arteries. Hence, Bontius con- cluded, that the case was owing to some affection of the heart. The vena cava, instead of con- taining blood, was filled with a medullary sub- stance, which, pressing against the aorta, is sup- posed to have excited the extraordinary pulsa- tions in that vessel. The heart was unusually dilated, and flabby. The two ventricles were very large, and filled with dark coloured blood. The liver was of nearly twice its natural size, its substance being of a light colour. The gall- bladder resembled that of a bullock, and was filled with viscid bile nearly as thick as an ex- tract. (Jacobi Boritii de Medicina Indorum, libri 4. Lvgd. 1718. Ohs. 8. p. 101.) Lewenhoek met with an instance of a similar pulsation, which he imputed to irregular action of the diaphragm, the pulse at the wrist not being affected. The disorder lasted three da}rs, during which the functions of the alimentary canal were so much interrupted, that the patient was expected to die. ( Philosophical. Trans. Irons 1719 to 1733, abr. by J. Fames, Sfc. Loud. 1734. vol. 7. p. 683.) Ballonius recites the case of a man, affected with a quartan fever, gout, and other complaints, who had so violent a pulsation in the left hypo- chondrium, that it was supposed to originate B 2