INFLAMMATION. 706 nifications." {Thomson on Inflammation, v. 1 '26.) Common inflammation, particularly when it afreets glandular parts, is often followed by in- duration, which afterwards continues for a greater or lesser time. Thus, when the testis has been inflamed, a hardness of the epididymis fre- quently remains during life. Such induration, however, is not at all malignant, and, conse- quently, very different from what is implied by a real scirrhus. TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. One principal difficulty in believing the fact of the retardation of the circulation in the capillaries of an inflamed part, and against the supposition of their being in a state of debility, is, that the most effectual treatment of common inflamma- tion consists of means, which are generally of a debilitating nature, as bleeding, purging, Sec. And surgeons are still further attached to the theory of increased velocity of the blood’s motion, in the part affected, by the recollection of the local augmentation of temperature, the throbbing, and the instantaneous return of the red colour, after the discontinuance of any pressure, by which the redness has been momentarily removed at some point of the inflamed surface. These too are all so many facts, which, as far as I can judge, are admitted by the generality of reasoners, whatever may be their particular theory. At the same time, it appears equally well proved by careful microscopical experiments, that in the capillaries of the part, which is directly the seat of inflammation, there is a retardation, and some- times even a stagnation, of the circulation. But, this is not all, it is further manifested, that the capillaries are considerably dilated, the blood in them materially altered, and that these phenomena are followed by an increased action of the larger arteries leading to the part affected. Now, I think, if we remain contented with these obvious cir- cumstances, and dismiss the hypothesis of debility of the capillaries, not only the necessity for ven- turesome conjectures may be avoided, but a more rational account delivered of the principles of the efficacy of the usual mode of treatment. Tlius, I would not presume to offer any supposition, why the capillaries are dilated, and why the motion of the fluid in them is retarded, but would be satisfied with a knowledge of the facts, so as to elude a source of endless controversy, viz. the question, whether these changes proceed from debility of the said vessels, or other causes ? In the view, which I take of the nature of phleg- monous inflammation, I consider the following circumstances proved: 1. The dilated state of the capillaries in the immediate seat of inflam- mation. 2. The retardation, or even stagnation of the circulation in them. 3. The increased action, or excitement of the larger arteries leading to the inflamed part. All these three main points seem to me to be fully established by the investiga- tions and experiments both of Dr. Wilson Philip, and Dr. Hastings; and I may make the ob- servation, though aware, that the latter gentle- man does not regard increased action of the larger arteries, as a constituent and necessary part of inflammation, because cases occur, in which no such excitement can be detected; (On Inflammation, p. 10-4,) for, I here put out of consideration chronic inflammation, which I believe is entirely a different process, bearing no resemblance to the acute forms of the dis- order, either in the state of the capillaries, or of the larger arteries. Assuming the above points, as proved, it is to be inquired, whether other facts, such as the heat and throbbing in the inflamed part, the instantaneous return of redness to the spot, which has been touched, and the efficacy of common treatment, are reeoncileable with them, j or not. I am disposed to think they are; for, it j is only asserted, that the passage of the blood is more or less obstructed in the capillaries in the I seat of the inflammation; and the larger arteries, leading to them, are, for the most part, obviously in a state of increased action, whereby a greater : quantity of blood must be supposed to be deter- mined towards the part. Now, as this augmented , quantity of blood cannot pass freely through I the smaller vessels, in the immediate place of I inflammation, it must be thrown into such arte- j ries in the neighbourhood, as are capable of re- ceiving it, so that, in fact, the theory of obstruc- tion of the capillaries may not be altogether incompatible, both with increased action, and quickened circulation, in the arteries directly around the parts, in which there is a retarded cir- culation in the capillaries. This view of the subject, I think, is not liable to greater perplexity in the explanation of the heat, throbbing, Ac. than former doctrines, involving the contradicted no- tion of there being an increased action, and an augmented velocity of the blood’s motion, in all the arteries of the part affected. Resolution being the most favourable termina- tion of common inflammation, it is of course, the; object at which the surgeon generally aims in the treatment. Dr. Philip’s very ingenious view of inflammation leads him to suppose, that, resolution arises from the'debilitated capillaries; being excited to due action by the increased; action of the larger arteries. (On the Vitall Functions, p. 2.98.) But, I am of opinion, thatt; the doctrine of debility of the capillaries, and* the hypothesis of their being strengthened byv; the excitement or increased action of the larger* vessels, are by no means satisfactory, and per- haps, not very intelligible. On the contrary, if the capillaries are already so weak as to be distended by the ordinary impulse of the blood, how are they to be restored to their natural dimensions and functions byany increased action of the large^i arteries ? the effect of which I should conceive, would be to gorge them still more with bloodJftJ and produce dven a greater dilatation of them| i Were the above reasoning correct, it would foN < low, that a principal indication in the treatment f would be to promote the increased action of thd larger arteries, whereby so much supposed benef fit is communicated to the debilitated capillarie: Yet, such practice is contrary to the dictates o experience, and is even inconsistent with th principles, on which Dr. Philip himself think the treatment should be founded. Indeed, th following directions are such, as I imagine, wi> be perfectly approved of by practitioners, who far from looking upon the increased action o the arteries, as a means of relief, are accustome to do every thing in their power to lessen an resist it. “ All the local means (says D>