1178 WHI Schmuckcr.) Theden thinks, tlmt applying Q oiler round the linger, hand, and arm, and Fre- quently wetting the first two parts witli a lotion, the most certain means of resolving the inflam- mation, Platner advises the finger to be for some time immersed in water, as warm as the patient can bear. Some recommend the external use of camphorated spirit, or the volatile alkali; while others advise the affected finger to be plunged in a warm solution of soap, or kali. When the whitlow is occasioned by a prick, par- ticular care must be taken, that no extraneous substance remain in the puncture. When the symptoms do not lessen by the fourth day, Richter recommends an opening to be made. Even when no fluctuation is discovered, he approves of making a crucial incision in the seat of the pain, and, he states, that although no matter may be discharged, the patient always derives infinite relief from the operation. The benefit, he says, may either be imputed to the bleeding, or to the division of the hard tense skin, which compresses the subjacent inflamed parts. Sometimes, the collection of matter can be plainly felt, and, in this case, there can be no hesitation about the place, where the opening should be made. However, it may be proper to remark, that the opening should always be made sufficiently large. When the surgeon makes a small puncture, it soon closes again, and a repe- tition of the operation becomes necessary. When opening the abscess is delayed, the theca of the flexor tendons easily becomes affected, or the matter may spread to a considerable extent under the skin. Sometimes it makes its way through the cutis, by ulceration, and raises up the cuticle. In this case, as soon as the cuticle has been opened, a director should be introduced into the aperture in the skin, and the latter opening be enlarged with a bistoury. The third species of whitlow seldom affects the last phalanx of the fingers ; but, generally, the second, or third In this case, Richter enjoins us never to defer making an opening longer, than the third day. If we wait, till suppuration hap- pens, we shall wait till the tendons are destroyed, and the use of the finger lost. In the case under consideration, the matter is always of bad quality, and very small in quantity. A fluctuation in the finger can seldom be felt. However, in a few instances, the matter is perceptible at the ex- tremity of the finger, or about the finger-joints, but, more often, in the palm of the hand, or near the wrist. In these circumstances, the tendons are in general already destroyed, and a stiffness of the finger and hand is to be apprehended. When the complaint is the consequence of a puncture, the best plan, according to Richter, is at once to enlarge the wound; for, in this sort of case, all other methods are unavailing. It is not enough, however, to cut through the skin; the tendinous theca itself must be laid open. When a collection of matter formS towards the wrist, attended with violent pain in that si- tuation, an opening must also be made there. If an opening should have been already made in the hand, a probe may be introduced into the wnunit nn/1 nnrOlipr miprMirO made ill Jill olUTlblc WOU merit. In the same way, Richter advises an opening to be made in any part of the fore-arm, where great pain, or the symptoms of suppura- tion, may indicate its propriety. In the fourth kind of whitlow, early incisions, made down to the bone, are the most certain means of obviating the danger. When such in- cisions are not made early enough, suppuration takes place, and the hone becomes carious. The cut is to be made in tire place, where the pain is most severe. When the first phalanx is affected, the incision may be made in front of the finger; but, when the second, or third, is the seat of the complaint, the opening should be made on one side. However, in order that the opening may be useful, it is absolutely necessary to make it down to the hone. When the incision is delayed too long, a small quantity of unhealthy matter is usually detected, and tiie bone is found in the state of necrosis. As an exfoliation can hardly be expected in this situation, it is best to remove at once the diseased piece of bone. When the last phalanx alone is affected, the finger retains its form, with the exception of its end being a little shorter and Hatter. Wiien the disease, however, is situated in the third phalanx, Richter thinks it better to amputate the finger, than remove the diseased bone, as the finger, if left, would always remain stiff and unservice- able. (See Anfangsgr. dcr Wundarzncykunst, Vol. 7.) Witli regard to the treatment of the species of whitlow, named by Mr. Wardrop, onychia ma- ligna, all local applications have in many in- stances proved quite ineffectual, and the part been amputated. The only local treatment, which Mr. Wardrop has ever seen relieve this com- plaint has been the evulsion of the nail, and after- wards the occasional application of escharolics to the ulcerated surface. I have myself seen a si- milar plan occasionally succeed, and the applica- tions, which appeared to answer best, were arse- nical lotions, Rlunket’s caustic, or a very' strong solution of the nitrate of silver. Nothing, how- ever, will avail, till the nail is removed, and its total separation sometimes takes up a good deal of time, unless the patient submit to the great pain of having it cut away\ Mr. Wardrop tried with success the exhibition of mercury in four cases of the onychia maligna. The medicine was given in small doses at first, and afterwards increased, so as to affect the gums in about twelve or fourteen day's. When the sys- tem was in this state, the sores in general soon assumed a healing appearance, and the bul- bous swelling gradually disappeared. (See Med- Chir. Trans. Vol. 5, p. 138.) WOUNDS. A great deal of the subject of wounds has been already considered in the articles, Gun-shot Wounds; Head, Injuries of; Hemorrhage; Hydrophobia; Parotid Duct; Sutures ; Tetanus; Throat; &c. A wound may' he defined to be a recent solu- tion of continuity in the soft parts, suddenly oc- casioned by external causes, and generally at- tended at first with a greater or lesser degree of hemorrhage. M Wounds in general are subject to considerable variety in their nature, degree of danger, facility