4T % ■f TON t has a narrow base, it can then be so easily re- moved with a scalpel, or with Desault’s instru- ment, and with so little pain, that one of the last : modes is generally preferable. The ligature, however, has had its advocates, leister recommends it, in certain cases; Sharp -aises it; and others approve its use; while the t ans of employing it have been as various as the iventive genius of the different partisans of the i actice. Some make use of Levret’s double itnnula, which is furnished with a silver wire oose, in which the tumor is to be engaged. By Irvisting the instrument, the diseased part be- Ioomes constricted; and this plan being repeated i ‘very day, the circulation is intercepted, and the aand mortifies, and sloughs away. Some, after jitting the noose of a ligature over a kind of te- . aaculum, hook hold of the tonsil, push the liga- ire over the enlarged gland, which they tie, ithout having any means of increasing the cop- -.riction afterwards. Some employ Belloque’s , .'lstrumeut for putting the ligature over the ton- -1. Others require no instrument whatever for ie purpose, and accomplish the business with * leir fingers. 1 Desault employed an instrument, which the ’rench call tin scrre-inxud, which is in fact, no- ling more, than a long, narrow, round piece of lver, terminating at one end in a little ring, or ole, and, at the other, in a kind o£ groove or otch. The following was Desault’s method of extir- iting the tonsils with a ligature. 1. The patient was seated on a high chair, ith his head held back, on an assistant’s breast; :S mouth was opened very wide, his tongue de- r -essed, and the diseased tonsil taken hold of ; i ith a double hook. 2. The surgeon took the serre-ncetid, in which ligature had been passed, so as to form a noose. ( he noose was put over the handle of the hook, i hich was committed to the charge of an assist- it, and the noose then pushed over the tonsil, > as to embrace it completely. 3. The surgeon now drew the ligature strongly 'wards him, and pushed forward the serrc-nceud, i j as to produce the requisite constriction of the imor. In general, the ligature was not made j e jry tight the first day. 4. When the necessary constriction had been i i ade, the double-hook was withdrawn, and the Lgature twisted round the notch, at the outward l it id of the instrument. 5. The next day, the gland became unusually urge, in consequence of the impediment to the ■turn of the venous blood. The ligature was imfastened from the notched end of the instru- ment, and drawn more out, so as to increase the 1 instriction, after which it was again twisted •und the notch. This plan was followed up, 1111 the tumor was detached, which usually hap- 2ned on the fourth, or fifth day. Mr. Chevalier, a few years ago, described a ‘articular mode of passing and securing the li- ature. He passes a Hat spear pointed book behind ie diseased tonsil, and its point is then pushed uward, so as to perforate it, through the middle t its base. The needle is then to be withdrawn, nd an eye-probe, very mucli curved, and, armed itli a long double ligature, may then be readily isscd through the perforation, and brought out TOU 1041 at the mouth, the ligature divided, and one por- tion tied round the upper half of the tonsil, and the other round the lower. “ A single knot being first made upon one end of the thread, the end so knotted, is to be brought forward upon the other, and to make a single noose upon itself including the other, and to be drawn tight upon it, close to the first knot. The free end of the thread is then to be passed” through a ring at the end of an instrument for the purpose, and “ being then held firm, and the ring pushed for- ward upon the knot, the loop, now formed, may be readily tightened, so as completely to stran- gulate the diseased part; and in the same man- ner, it may be tightened, from day to day, till the part is entirely detached.” (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 3, p. 80, 8[e.) The subject is more intelligible, with the plate. In cases of angina, the tonsils are sometimes suddenly attacked with such a degree of swelling, that respiration is dangerously obstructed. This case is analogous to the occasional enormous in- flammatory swelling of the tongue, and, if it re- sist venesection and leeches, the most prompt mode of relief is that of making several deep scarifications with a knife in the part. Many cases, confirming the good effects of this prac- tice, have been seen by Langenbeck. (See Neue Bill. B. 2,p. 492, £c.) TOPHUS. A swelling, which particularly affects a bone, or the periosteum. See Node. TORTICOLLIS, (from torqiico, to twist; and collum, the neck.) The wry-neck. See Wry-neclc. TOURNIQUET. (French, from tourner, to turn.) An instrument used for stopping the flow of blood into a limb, until some requisite operation has been performed, or some more permanent plans of checking hemorrhage have been put in practice. The old surgeons used to surround the limb with a band, with which they made such a degree of constriction, that the circulation was quite stopped. They also believed, that the pressure of the band was advantageous, in benumbing the limb, and moderating the pain of opera- tions. The violent pain and contusion, however, which such a tourniquet occasioned, being fre- quently followed by mortification and abscesses, surgeons found it necessary to devise some other method of checking hemorrhage. The applica- tion of the circular band was first improved, so that it caused less pain, and less mischief to the skin. The limb was surrounded with a very thick compress, over which the band was placed. Two small sticks were next put under the hand; one on the inside, the other on the outside of the limb; and they were twisted till the hand was rendered sufficiently tight. It is in this manner, says Dionis, in his Traite d' Operations, that carriers tighten the cords which fasten the bales of goods in their carts. A French sur- geon, named Morel, is said to have, made this first improvement in the application of tourni- quets. J. L. Petit, in 1718, presented to the Aca- demy of Sciences a tourniquet of his own inven- tion, which was much more perfect, than auy previously contrived. It consists of two pieces of wood, one of which is superior, the other in- 3 X