UlltNE, RETENTION OF. 1123 ,f the practice under the foregoing circumstances. Ynd Colot adduces two instances, in which it vroved very serviceable. Sabatier also refers to nother example of similar success, related in the nesis by Murray. When Dr. Murray saw the atient, the cannula had been worn more than a ear. The patient was sixty years of age, and njoyed very good health. He was in the habit f taking a stopper out of the cannula, every four ours. The wound had healed very well all ound the tube, and was quite free from redness. Sabatier, Medccinc Optratoire, T.2,p. 140.) or further observations, see Catheter, and ’rosiatc Gland. 14. Of the Retention of Urine produced / Strictures in the Urethra. From the ac- >unt, which is given of strictures in another art of this Dictionary, (see Urethra, Strictures c',) it appears, that almost every stricture, bad ! it may be, is capable of being rendered still orse, and the morbid part of the urethra, more ppervious by a spasmodic affection. Going out a warm into a cold situation, drinking, and her kinds of intemperance, will often bring on i irritable state of the canal, attended with a astnodic action of the strictured part, an in- eased difficulty of voiding the urine, and even total retention of this fluid. The patient makes peated efforts to relieve himself; but hardly a op of urine is discharged. In the mean while, - e bladder becomes filled, and ascends above the Ubes; the abdomen grows tense and painful; cer comes on; the countenance looks red; the ain becomes affected; and circumstances as- k me an extremely urgent appearance. In this case, antiphlogistic means should be vopted, without delay. The patient ought to be ed, if nothing in bis constitution and age pro- I bit this evacuation, which it may even be proper repeat. He should also be pul Into the warm th, and fomentations should be continually ap- icd to the hypogastric region. Slightly diuretic verages may be prescribed; and leeches put i the perinzeum. The principal means, bow- er, from which the greatest benefit may be :pected, is a liberal dose of the tinctura opii, ; gether with an anodyne glyster. This is also other example, for which Mr. Earle has par- eularly recommended the exhibition of tobacco the form of a clyster, and he has related a ' se in illustration of the efficacy of the plan, ■ee Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol.6,p. 88.) The ictura ferri muriati, which according to Mr. line, has a specific effect in overcoming spasm the urethra, seems also worthy of trial. In- ed, it should always be tried before tobacco, tich being sometimes violent in its effects, ght perhaps to be the last resource in the way medicines. When such measures fail in en- ling the patient to empty his bladder, and this scus is becoming more and more distended, an 'mediate attempt should be made to introduce small flexible elastic gum-catheter, through e stricture or strictures into the bladder, which ject may be frequently accomplished, when ie care, perseverance, and gentleness, arc not ■glected. Sometimes when a smnll flexible catheter nnot be introduced, a fine bougie admits of mg passed into the bladder, and on being witli- •ivvn, (lie urine follows, and is discharged. When all the preceding plans prove unavail- ing, and the danger arising from the retention of urine continues to increase, either the stricture must be forced with the conical sound, (see P. 331,) an incision practised behind the obstruc- tion, or the bladder punctured. The cannula of the trocar should then be left in tire wound, till the strictures are either cured, or at least till the urine resumes its natural course. 15. Retention of Urine from the Lodgment of Foreign Bodies in the Urethra. That such accident must obstruct the discharge of urine, is too plain to need any particular explanation. Calculi are the most common substances, which bring on this kind of case, but articles, intro- duced into the urethra from without, such as bougies, large pins, &c. are occasionally lodged in the passage; and I once extracted from a man’s urethra a long black pin, with which he had been examining the passage. The head of it was towards the perinseum, and the point about two inches from the orifice of the glans. I passed the point through the lower surface of the urethra, and then taking hold of it, drew it fur- ther out, turned the bead towards the glans, from the orifice of which it was then easily removed. When substances, like calculi lodge, oily injec- tions are sometimes tried, with the view of render- ing the passage more slippery; and occasionally the dilatation of the canal with bougies or cathe- ters, followed by a very forcible expulsion of the urine, has answered. The ancients sometimes tried the effect of suction. V\ hen the foreign body is closely embraced by the urethra, and it cannot be pushed forward with the fingers, De- sault recommends endeavouring to extract it with the forceps, invented for the purpose by Mr. Hunter, and which are contained in a can- nula; or the urethra forceps, spoken of in the articles Lithotomy and Urinary Calculi might be employed. When, however, the foreign body is too large to be taken out in this manner, it must be extracted by an incision. If an elastic catheter be now kept in the urethra, so as to prevent the urine from coming into contact with the cut part, the wound will heal very well. Some time ago, there was published a case of calculus in the urethra, attended with dysury, where almost instantaneous relief was obtained from the exhibition of a tobacco clyster. The patient soon felt a strong desire to void his urine, and “ upon making the attempt, a large calculus came rolling along the urethra, with complete relief of all his complaints.” (See Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journal. Vol. \‘2,p. 373.) Fr. M. Colot, Traite de l'Operation de la Taille ; aver, des Ohs. sur la Formation de la Pierre, et les Suppressions de VUrine; $v. 12mo. Paris, 1727. Sabatier, De la Mede- cine Optratoire, T. 2. C. B. Trye., Remarks on Morbid Retentions of Urine, 2d Ed. 8r<>. Gloucester, 1784. /ley's Practical Observa- tions in Surgery. Scliregcr Chinirgische ITer- suche, p. 187, S[C. der Ischuria Calculosa, 8vo. Nurhberg, 1811. Desault's Parisian Chirurgical Journal, S. T. Soemmering, Ab- handlung liber die schnell und hingsam iodtli- chen Krankheitcn der ltarnblasc und Ilurn- rbhre bey M'dnncrn in Iiohcn Alter. 4to. Frank. idOO. Richter, Aufangsgriindc der 4 C ‘2