193 ANUS. rectum, with its concavity turned towards the fistula. A steel inflexible director, slightly pointed and without a cul-de-sac, is then passed through the fistula till the point conies into contact with the wooden gorget. A long, narrow, sharp-pointed, straight bistoury is now introduced along the groove of the steel director, till its point meets the groove of the ebony gor- get, by cutting upon which all the parts are di- vided/which lie between the internal opening of the fistula and the anus. It may be objected to this method, that it is not always easy to make a director pass at once through the fistula into the rectum. This is acknowledged by M. Richerand, who adds, that, in this circumstance, the point of the director may be forced into the rectum, without lessening the chance of the success of the operation. (Nosogr. Chirurg. T. 3, p. 463, 464. Edit. 4.) Why then does it matter so much, that the surgeon sometimes pierces the rectum with the point of his curved bistoury ? Surely, this is as good an instrument for making the puncture as the pointed director. Besides, it appears to me, that a flexible silver director is more likely to follow the track of the fistula into the rectum, than an unbending iron instrument. I shall say nothing of the awkwardness of using the other wooden director - the finger of the sur- geon can always do the office of all such con- trivances, with greater safety and convenience. M. Roux also censures us for not cramming the wound with charpie; for he is not content -with merely introducing into it a dossil of lint. (See Parullele <le la Chir. Angloise, fyc. p. 296, S(c.) His countryman Pouteau, however, knew better long ago: for, he has expressed his decided conviction of the inutility of cramming the wound with dressings to its very bottom after the third day, when superficial dressings, and the renewal of them as often as cleanliness requires, will be fully sufficient. For information, relative to former opinions concerning fistula in ano, refer to Celsus; Heister’s Surgery; Le Dran’s Operations; Sharp's Opera-, turns; La Faye's Notes on Dionis. H. Bass, De Fistula /Ini feliciter curanda, in Hallei Disp. Chir. 4, 463. J, L. Petit, Traitt des Mai. Chir. T. 1 and 2, p. 113. Petit is an advocate for making an early opening, like Pott, and all the best writers on this disease. In Kirkland’s Medical Surgery, Vol. 2, may be found an account of the opinions and practice of many former celebrated practitioners. The best modern practical, remarks are contained in Pott’s Treatise on the Fistula in Ano, in which he has offered also an excellent critique or. some opinions of Lc Dran, De la Faye, and Cheselden. The reader may also consult with advantage Sabatier’s Medicine Operaloire, Tom. 2; B. Bell’s Surgery, Vol. 2; Latla's Surgery, Vol. 2; I. Whately, Cases of Polypi, djc. with an appendix, describing an improved instrument for the fistula in ano, Hvo. Land. 1805. J. T. Oetzmann, De Vistula Ani, Mo. Jena, 1812. Richerond’s Noso- graphie Chirurgicale, T. 3, p. 446, $c. Edit. 4. Roux, Voyage fait a Londres cn 1814, ou Pa- rallele de la Chirurgie Angloise avtc la Chirurgie Vranyue, p. 296, <$c. Paris, 1815. Callisen’s Chirvrgiee Hndiern. T. 1, p. 470. Schreger, orurgitche 1 crsuche, R. 2, lifter die Untcr- nm ung der Mastdarmfisteln, p. 1. 131, 8vo. am erg 1818. Fr. Reisinger, Darstellung elites neuen Verfaltrens die Mastdarmfistcl zu un- terbinden, 3fc. 8vo. Augsb. 1816. Into the con- sideration oj these plans of curing fistula; by the. introduction of a ligature through them, and tying them, I have not judged it advisable to enter, be- cause every method of this hind is most justly exploded from the practice of surgery in thts country. ANUS, raOLAFSUS OF. Prolapsus ani, technically called also exania, or archoptosis. In this case, the rectum protrudes in a greater or less degree at the anus, either from mere relaxation of the internal membrane of the bowel, or from a real displacement and in- version of its upper portion, which presents itself as an external tumour. The first form of the disease is that, which is most common. The inner coat of the rectum, being connected to the muscular by a very loose elastic cellular sub- stance, naturally forms several folds, the use of which is to let this bowel dilate sufficiently for the retention of the excrement. The swelling, occasioned by the protrusion of the inner coat of the rectum, or by the actual displacement of a greater part of this bowel, is subject to consider- able variety in respect to length and thickness; when small resembling a mere ring; when large and reaching far downwards, having an oblong globular form. The tumour, sometimes, admits of reduction with ease; sometimes it cannot he returned without difficulty. The disease occurs in persons of all ages ; but, it is most common in infants and elderly subjects. Such examples as are combined with thickening and relaxation of the inner coat of the rectum, internal hemorr- hoids, or other tumours, are sometimes attended with a copious discharge from the anus, and from the prolapsed bowel, of a serous and mucous fluid, mixed with blood. The disease may originate from various causes: 1. From circumstances, which tend to relax and weaken the parts, which retain the rectum, or its inner membrane, in its situation. 2. From various kinds of irritation and pres- sure on the bowel itself, having the effect of in- creasing the powers, by which it is liable to be forced outward. 3. From any disease, or irritation in the ad- jacent parts, and affecting the rectum sympa- thetically. Hence, a prolapsus ani may he caused by long habitual crying, and great exertions of the voice; violent coughing; sitting long at stool; hard dry feces, and much straining to void them; obstinate diarrhoea in infants, kept up by den- tition ; dysentery; chronic tenesmus; various diseases of the rectum itself; the abuse of aloetic medicines and emollient clysters; hemorrhoids; excrescences and thickenings of the inner mem- brane of the rectum; difficulty of making water; the efforts of parturition; the stone in the blad- der ; paralysis of the sphincter and levatores ani; and prolapsus vaginae. Considering the degree of the disease, and the occasional closeness of the stricture, the symp- toms are sometimes mild, the rectum generally hearing pressure, exposure to the air, and oilier kinds of irritation, better than any other bowel. But, the urgency and danger of n prolapsus am are greater, when the swelling is large, recent.