22 AMAUROSIS. beginning of her first tiiree pregnancies, which followed each other very quickly, regularly used to lose her sight, becoming completely amaurotic between the third and fourth months, and, on the two first occasions, she continued blind till after delivery; but, in the third instance, the power of vision never returned at all. Beer twice had under his care another woman, who was attacked with amaurosis whenever she drank chocolate; but, upon leaving off that drink, she never after- wards had any complaint in her eyes. If we are to believe Professor Beer, the abuse of bitter substances, as of chicory in coffee, bitter malt liquors, and bitter medicines, especially quassia, is unquestionably a predisposing cause of amaurosis. The abuse of narcotic poisonous substances may induce amaurosis; immoderate doses of opium; hyoscyamus; belladonna, &c. Lead will do the same thing. Beer mentions a case, in which the only assignable cause was the exhibi- tion of pills, containing the extractum cynoglossi. One not unfrequent and very important cause of amaurosis is hysteria and hypochondriasis, with which must be included infarction generally, and induration of one or more of the abdominal viscera, especially the liver. (Beer, Lehre, 6c. B. 2. p. 444-4(5.) According to Richter, the remote causes of gutta serena may be properly divided into three principal classes, the differences of which indicate three general methods of treatment. It is alleged, that the first class of causes seem to depend upon an extraordinary plethora and turgidity of the blood-vessels of the brain, or of those of the optic nerves and retinae, upon which last parts a degree of pressure is thereby supposed to be occasioned. A considerable plethora, espe- cially when the patient heats himself, or lets his head hang down, will frequently excite the ap- pearance of black specks before the eyes, and sometimes complete blindness. A plethoric per- son (says Richter), who held his breath, and looked at a white wall, was conscious of discern- ing a kind of network, which alternately appeared and disappeared with the diastole and systole of the arteries. This phenomenon, it is conjectured, originated from the plethoric state of the vessels of the retina. Boerhaave mentions a man, who always lost his sight on getting tipsy, and regain- ed it on becoming sober. Richter thinks it likely, that it is in this man- ner, that the disease is produced, by the suppres- sion of some habitual discharge of blood, by not being bled according to custom, by the stoppage of the menses, and by the cessation of hemor- rhage from piles; circumstances, which, if we can give credit to all the accounts of Richter, Scarpa, Schmucker, and other experienced writers on the subject, frequently give rise to gutta serena. In the same manner, the complaint may be brought on by great bodily exertions, which must determine a more rapid current of blood to the head. Richter informs us of a man, who be- came blind all on a sudden, while carrying a heavy burden up stairs. He tells us of another man, who laboured excessively hard for three days in succession, exerting his strength very much, and who became blind at the end of the third day. Pregnant women, in like manner, arc sometimes bereft of their sight during the time of labour. Schmucker has recorded a remarkable instance of this in a strong young woman, thirty years old, and of a full habit. Whenever she was pregnant, she was troubled with violent sickness, till the time of delivery, so that nothing would stop in her stomach. She was bled, three or four times, without effect. Towards the ninth month, her sight grew weak, and for eight or ten days before parturition, she was quite blind. The pupil of the eye was greatly enlarged, but re- tained its shining black appearance. She reco- vered her sight immediately after delivery, and did not suffer anyparticular complaints. Schmuc- ker assures us, that he has been three times a witness of this extraordinary circumstance. (Ver- mischte Chir. Schriften, Bund. 2, p. G,-edit. 1786.) Richter speaks of a person, who lost his sight, during a violent fit of vomiting. Schmucker acquaints us, that it is not uncommon for soldiers, who are performing forced marches in hot wea- ther, to become blind all on a sudden. All great exertions of strength, when the body is plethoric, or heated, or bent forwards with the head in a low posture, are usually attended with some danger of bringing on amaurosis. The blindness, which follows external injuries of the head, is ranked by Richter among the pre- ceding class of cases. A man, who received a smart box on the ear, says this author, lost his sight on the spot. Richter conceives it probable, that a concussion of the head may sometimes produce an atony of the blood-vessels, giving rise to their dilatation, and consequent pressure on the adjacent nerves: perhaps, it is more likely, that the blow itself actually ruptures them, and produces an effusion of blood. Richter suspects, that the gutta serena, which originates during a violent ophthalmy, or during a severe inflamma- tory fever, may be of the same nature. He thinks it probable, that persons, who become blind while exposing themselves to the burning sun, with their heads uncovered, have their sight impaired in a similar way. Beer also coincides with Schmucker, Richter, and others, in regarding as a frequent cause of amaurosis, repeated and long continued determi- nations of blood to the head and eyes, produced by various circumstances, viz. by pregnancy; a tedious and difficult labour; lifting and carrying heavy burdens, especially with the arms raised up; all kinds of work, in which the eyesight and intellectual faculties are intensely exerted, with the head bent forwards, and the abdomen com- pressed, as is the case with shoemakers, tailors, &c., every sudden stoppage of natural, or preter- natural long established discharges of blood, as that of the menses, lochia, or hemorrhoids; the omission of an habitual venesection at some par- ticular season of the year; severe and obstinate vomiting; forced marches in hot dry weather; scrofulous and other swellings of considerable size in the neck, pressing upon the jugular veins, and obstructing the return of blood from the head; the use of a pediluvium, or warm bath, the water of which is of high temperature; hard drinking; violent gusts of passion; frequent and obstinate constipation; and hard straining at stool. These causes are more likely to occasion amaurosis, in proportion as the individual is young and plethoric. (Beer Lehre von den Au- genkr. B, 2. p. 446.)