784 LITHO TO MY. beak never slips from the groove of the staff in operating on women, proposed, like Le Dran, to convert the male into the female urethra. I'lley introduce, as usual, a curved grooved staff into the bladder, make the common incisions, and open the membranous part of the urethra; but, instead of introducing a gorget on the curved staff, they conduct along the groove a straight director, or staff, into the bladder, and immediately withdraw the other. The gorget is then introduced. In this manner the operation may be very well performed with a narrow bis- toury, as was advised by Mr. A. Burns. LITHOTOMY, AS PERFORMED WITH A KNIFE, IN- STEAD OF A CUTTING GORGET, BY SEVERAL OF THE MODERNS. / We have already described, howFrere Jacques and Cheselden used to operate with a knife, without any cutting gorget, in the early state of the lateral operation. The success, which at- tended the excellent practice of the latter sur- geon, certainly far exceeds what attends the pre- sent employment of the gorget, for, out of 52 patients, whom he cut successively for the stone, lie only lost two; and out of 213, of all ages, constitutions, &c. only 20. These facts are strongly in favour of abandoning the use of the gorget, and doing its office with a knife. The objections to the gorget are numerous and well founded. In the hands of many skilful operators, its beak has slipped out of the groove of the staff, and the instrument has been driven either between the rectum and the bladder, or into the intestine instead of the latter viscus. Sir James Earle remarks : “ I have more than once known a gorget, though passed in the right direction, pushed on so far, and with such vio- lence, as to go through the opposite side of the bladder.” Bromfield, even when operating with a blunt gorget, perforated the bladder and pe- ritonaeum, so that the abdominal viscera came out of the wound. (P. 270.) I now know of at least three instances, in which the gorget, slipping from the staff, completely severed the urethra from the bladder; the stone was not taken out; and the patients died. We will suppose, however, that the preceding dangers of the gorget are surmounted, as they certainly may be, by particular dexterity, se- conded by the confidence of experience. The gorget is introduced, but whatever kind of one has been used, the wound is never sufficiently large for the easy passage of any stone, except such as are below the ordinary size. Camper has noticed this fact: “ Hawkensius solo con- ductor, cujus margo dexter in aciem assurgit, idem praestat: omnes pi a gam dilatant, ut calcu- lurn extraliant: dilacerentur igitur semper vesiccc ostium ct prostata.” (P. 114.) Dease says: “ In all the trials that I have made with the gorget on the dead subject, I have never found the opening into the bladder sufficiently large for the extraction of a stone of a middling size, without a considerable laceration of the parts. I have frequently taken the largest-sized gorget, and could not find, in the adult subject, I ever entirely divided the prostate gland, if it was anv way large; and in the operations that were performed here on the living subject, if the stone was large, the extraction was painfully te- dious, and effected with great difficulty, and, rn some cases, riot at all.’’ I shall dismiss this part of the subject with referring the reader to the spirited and correct remarks on the objections to the gorget in Mr. John Bell’s Principles, Vol. 2, Part 2. The latter author recommends the external incision, in a large man, to commence about an inch behind the scrotum, and to be carried downwards three inches and a half, midway be- tween the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. The fingers of the left hand, which at first kept the skin tense, are now applied to other purposes. The fore-finger now guides the knife, and the operator proceeds to dissect through fat and cel- lular substance, and muscular and ligamentous fibres, till the wound is free and open, till all sense of stricture is gone; for it is only by feel- ing opposition and stricture that we recognize the transverse muscle. When this hollow is fairly laid open, the external incision, which re- lates merely to the free extraction of the stone, is completed. If it were the surgeon’s design to operate only with the knife, he would now push his fingers deeply into the wound, and, by the help of the fore-finger, dissect from the urethra along the body of the gland, till he distinguished its thickness and solidity, and reached its back part. Then, plunging his knife through the pos- terior portion of the gland, and settling it in the Groove of the staff, he would draw it firmly and steadily towards him, at the same time pressing it into the groove of this instrument, and then the free discharge of the urine, assuring him that the prostate and neck of the bladder were di- vided, he would lay aside his knife, pass the left fore-finger into the bladder, withdraw the staff, and introduce the forceps. [John Bell, p. 197.) Mr. Charles Bell describes the following me- thod of operating with a knife, instead of a gor- get. A staff grooved on the right side, a scal- pel with a straight back, and the common litho- tomy forceps, are the indispensable instruments. The staff is kept in the centre, and well home into the bladder. The surgeon making his inci- sion under the arch of the pubes, and by the side of the anus, carries it deeper towards the face of the prostate gland: cutting near to the staff, but yet not cutting into it, and avoiding the rectum by pressing it down with the finger. Now carry- ing the knife along the staff; the prostate gland is felt. The point of the knife is run somewhat obliquely into the urethra, and into the lateral groove of the stuff, just before the prostate gland. It is run on, until the urine flows. The fore- finger follows the knife, and it is slipped along the back of it, until it is in the bladder. Having carried the fore-finger into the bladder, it is kept there, and the knife is withdrawn. Then the forceps, directed by the finger, are introduced. (C. Bell's Operative Surgery, Vol. 1. }>■ 361.) Mr. Allan Burns, of Glasgow, recommends the following method : “ The plan (says he) introduced by Cheselden, and revived by Mr. J. Bell, I would assume, as the basis of the opera- tion; but still, along with their mode, I would blend that of Mr. Dease, by which, I imagine, we may overcome some of the disadvantages at- tendant on each considered individually. “ For more than twelve months, 1 have been