ALVINE CONCRETIONS. 13 or mixed, having quitted the hepatic system when it was small, and afterwards increased within the alimentary canal. Unquestionably, as Rubini admits, this criterion has considerable weight, especially when the discharge of the calculus has not been preceded by pain, or other symptoms indicating such violent distention, as the above ducts must have suffered from the passage of the foreign body. These may certainly be dilated in a remarkable degree; but, it can never happen without pain, irritation, and a serious train of sympathetic effects. The case in which the dilatation takes place slowly and insensibly, if not hvpothetical, is uncommon. This criterion is adopted by Moreau in the Mem. de l'Acad, de Chintrgie; and Bonte has availed himself of it in Vandermonde’s Journal for determining, that a calculus, of which he has published an account, was first formed in the hepatic organs, and then attained a larger size in the intestinal canal. As Rubini remarks, however, it is plain, that this criterion will only apply to large, and not to diminutive concretions. A second criterion is the colour of the calcu- lus ; a test, admitted by Moreau; who asserts, that biliary calculi are yellow, or green, and in- testinal ones greyish brown, or black. But, says Rubini, one need only look at various specimens of alvine concretions, and read the statements of authors, who have seen a great many of them, particularly Morgagni and Soemmering, to com- prehend, that any criterion, deduced from their colour, is most fallacious, every species of them presenting great variety in this particular. And, it is to be remembered, that the bile and the intestinal fluids, whence these concretions are formed, differ in colour in different individuals, according to a variety of circumstances, in health and disease. The smaller intestinal concretions, examined by Dr. T.Thomson, destitute of coat- ing, resembled bad yellow ochre; the larger were encrusted with an earthy matter, of a coffee colour, and purpie, or sometimes white. (See Monro on the Human Gullet, fife, and Med. Chir. Jmm. Vol. IV. p. 1S8.) Third criterion. The presence or absence of a nucleus will enable one to judge, whether a calculus be gastric, or hepatic. A biliary con- cretion has no nucleus, properly so called; that is to say, it has no foreign body in its centre. When a transverse section is made of such a calculus, one either finds a cavity in its middle, or else nothing, by which this part of its substance can be distinguished from the rest; or, if a nucleus, different from the other part of the concretion, be apparent there, it consists merely of bile, either grumous, differently coloured, or more or less fluid, than the rest of the calculus, but which is nevertheless invariably bile. On the contrary, ever}' gastiie concretion has, as it were, an extraneous nucleus, as Fourcroy and 'Vauquelin have explained in their essay upon the intestinal calculi met with in animals. Ruysch in the Phil. Trans, gives an account of some alvine concretions, which were formed round grains of seed. Birch records an example of a crystallized calculus, formed round a leaden bul- let. Haller met with a calculus, in the centre of which was an iron nail. Concretions, formed upon fruit stones, are recorded by Clarke, White, and Hey, and also in the Edinb. Med. Essays- Instances, in which the nucleus was a small por- tion of bone, are related in the latter work, and also by Hooke, and Coe. Ilomberg and others describe alvine concretions, formed round indu- rated excrementitious matter; and manv similar cases are specified by Vallisnieri, Vanswieten, and others. In the hepatieo-gastric calculus, the biliary concretion serves as a nucleus for the gastric. According to Dr. T.Thomson, the nu- cleus is commonly a cherry-stone, a small piece of bone, or a biliary calculus. (See Med. Chir. Journ. Vol. IK. p. 188.) A fourth criterion is deduced from a certain unctuosity, which belongs to biliary calculi, but not to those of the gastric class. This character is more palpable, when the calculus has been re- cently voided, or when it is handled with warm fingers. The unctuosity is still more evident, when the concretion is cut, or sawn, as then the knife, saw, or fingers, become smeared with sapo- naceous particles, which adhere to them. In order to denote an hepatic calculus, however, the unctuosity must pervade its whole substance, and not merely appear towards its outside; for, a gastric, earthy, saline concretion may by accident become coated, as it passes through the bowels, with a stratum of bile, or saponaceous matter. When the unctuosity is deficient externally, or in the outer laminae of a calculus, but is found in its interior, when cut, it is a clear indication of the hepatico-gastric formation of the concretion. Fifth criterion. The specific gravity of a cal- culus, the property, which it has of floating or sinking in water, has been long considered as a test of its species. The hepatic calculus is gene- rally specifically lighter than water, as most oily substances are: on the contrary, gastric ealeu i are specifically heavier than water, like all earthy saline matter, and of course sink in that fluid. This criterion was often employed by Reverhorst, Fernelius, and others, for distinguishing various concretions. But, it is by no means regular, as many biliary calculi swim only a little while and then sink. The specific gravity of that analyzed by Dr. Ure of Glasgow, was 1-0135. (SeeJlltd. Chir. Journ. Vol. IV. p. 179.) Rubini observes, this test will not an wer for hepatico-gastric cal- culi, which are subject to great anomalies. (Pen- sierij fife. p. 22.) Nevertheless, the most correct modern examinations prove, that gastric concre- tions have a specific gravity, varying from 1 -376’ to 1-540, (Dr. T. Thornton in Monro’s Morh. Anat. fife.'' and, consequently, their general cha- racter is to be heavier, than biliary calculi. A sixth criterion is that proposed by Vicq d’Azyr, in the Mem. de l'Acad, lioyale de Mert. and deduced from the figure of the crystallization. According to this writer, intestinal concretions crystallize in concentric laminte, shaped like a cock's comb, while the crystallizations of biliary calculi are radiated and needle shaped. Although this criterion is ingeniously founded upon the known laws, by which every crystallized substance assumes a peculiar and determinate shape, yet it may be generally observed, with respect to the mark of distinction here proposed, that the con- cretions, of which we are now speaking, aJ"c usually too compound, and too much disturbed m their crystallization, to exhibit a regularity, lor