SURGERY. 1003 h whom ho does not always coincide. Nay, some places, lie ventures to oppose the doc- ues or Hippocrates. He was perfectly ac- ainted with the practice of the ancients, and en he agrees with, or differs from them, it is r from a spirit of contradiction, but because the isons, which led him to take one side, or the ter, appeared to him well founded.’’ (Portal, 1st. d: I'Aniit. c$r. T. i, p. 123.) All now ree, that surgery is much indebted to him. et? 11 A. Vogel, be Pauli (Eghietoe Mentis in i’dkiu.im imprimisque Chirnrgiam, Ato. Gott. 68.) Afterwards the downfall of surgery fol- ded that of all the other sciences, and from the pture of Alexandria by the Saracens under nrou, viceroy of Egypt, 1641, until the end of i tenth century, nothing prevailed but the dark mils of ignorance and barbarism. The Ara- ms. who became masters of a great part of the jman empire, dug up the Greek manuscripts, tit h lay buried under the ruins of the libraries; mslated them ; appropriated to themselves the ictrines which they contained ; impoverished ern with additions; and transmitted to pos- rity only enormous compilations. In a word, eh are the treatises of Rliazes, Kali-Abbas, vicenna, Averrhoes, and Aibucasis, the most lebrated of the Arabian authors. Inventors a prodigious number of instruments and ma- rries, they appear to have calculated the efficacy surgery’ by the richness of its arsenals, and have been more anxious to inspire terror, an confidence. As an instance of the cruelty’ their methods, I shall merely notice, that, in Jer to stop the bleeding after amputation of a nb, they7 plunged the stump in boiling pitch. The fate of medicine was not more fortunate, t vain, the school of Salernum, founded about le middle of the seventh century, made some tempts to revive its splendour. As a modern riter observes, medical science, seated on the une benches, where the doctrine of Aristotle, ■commodaied to religious opinions, was the sub- let of endless controversies, imbibed, as it were y contagion,, the argumentative and sophistical lania, and became enveloped in the dark hy- otheses of scholastic absurdity’. (Richerand, Vosogr. Chir. T. J, Ed. V.) The universal ignorance, (continues this au- mr); the pretended horror of blood; the dogma f a religion, which shed it in torrents for useless uarrels; an exclusive relish for the subtleties f the school, and speculative theories; are ircumstances, further explaining the profound arkness, which followed these empty labours plasters. Guy de Chauliac, however, the last of the Arabians, is to be honourably excluded from such animadversion. His work written at Avignon, in iS6.5, in the pontificate of Urban the filth, to whom he was physician, continued to be, for a long while, the only classical book in the schools. It may be observed, that as he imitated in every respect the other Arabian phy- sicians, and like them thought, that it did not become an ecclesiastic to deviate from the au- sterity of his profession, he passed over in si- lence the diseases of women. At length, Antonio Beneveni, a physician of Florence, began to insist upon a truth, of the highest importance to the extension of surgical knowledge, viz. that the compilations of the ancients and Arabians ought to be relinquished for the observation of nature. (Dc abditis rc- rum eausis, Flo-rent1507, 4to.) A new era now began. The moderns were convinced, that by treading servilely in the footsteps of their predecessors, they should never even equal, much less surpass them. The labours of Vesa- lius also gave birth to anatomy, illuminated by which science, surgery, put on quite a different appearance in the hands of Ambroise Pare, the first and most eminent of the French surgeons. For the credit of Italy’, however, it should be recorded, that the sensible writings published in that country prior to the time of Pare, had the greatest influence in creating a due sense of the value and importance of surgery, and in dis- posing men of talents and education to cultivate it as a liberal profession. Obeying the dictates of his genius, Pare made authority’ yield to observation, or sought to re- concile them. However, his superior merit soon excited the ignorant, the jealous, and the malignant against him; he became the object of a bitter persecution ; and his discoveries were represented as a crime. Although he was the restorer, if not the inventor, of the art of tying the blood-vessels, the power of his persecutors compelled him to.make imperfect extracts from Galen, and alter his text, in order to rob him- self, in favour of the ancients, of the glory, which this distinguished improvement deserved. Surgeon of King Henry the second, Francis the second, Charles the ninth, and Henrv the third, of France, Pare practised his profession in various places, followed the French armies into Italy, and acquired such esteem, that his mere presence in a besieged town, was enough to re- animate the troops employed for its defence. In . . the execrable night of Saint Bartholomew, his ibout the middle of the twelfth century, (I 163,) reputation saved his life. As he was of the re- be Council of 'Fours prohibited the ecclesiastics, formed religi 'ho then sharpd with the Jews the practice of ledicine in Christian Europe, from undertaking ny bloody operation. It is to this epoch, that he true separation of medicine from surgery nust be referred. The latter was abandoned to he laity, the generality of whom, in those ages of larbarism, were entirely destitute of education. , 8 prints, however, still retained that portion d the art, which abstained from the effusion of nuod. Roger Rolandus, Bruno, Gulielmus de lalicetus, Lanfranc, Gordon, and Guy de Chny- tac, contined themselves to commentaries on the Arabians, anil if the latter author be excepted, hey all disgraced surgery by reducing it nearly o the mere business of applying ointments and religion, he would not have escaped the massacre, had not Charles the ninth himself undertaken to protect him. The historians of those days (Mem. dc Sully) have preserved the remembrance of this exception, so honourable to him who was the object of it; but, which should not diminish the just horror, which the memory of the most weak and cruel tyrant must ever inspire. “ 11 n’en voulut jamais snuver sucun (says Brnntome) sinon maistre Ambroise Parc, son premier chirurgien, ct le premier de la chre- tiennete ; et l’envoya querir ct venir lesoir dans sa chambre et garderoLe, lui commandant de n’en bougcr; et disait qu’il n’etait raisonnablc qu’un qui pouvait servir <\ tout un petit niondc, feust ainsi massacre.”