CATARACT. 31.9 I and the eye. An eyelash bent inward, should be | rectified; if broken off and loose, it should be | removed. Mr. Ware lastly considers prematurely expos- ! jner the eye to a strong light. He censures the || dan of opening the eyelids, within the first two II nr three days after the operation, because the I -timulus of the light increases the ophthalmy, and [l lie method is apt to disturb the wound in the cor- I iea, before it is closed. Mr. Ware, however, II .islies it not to be inferred, that lie is an advocate 11'>r lopg confinement after the operation. His ILaode is to keep the patient wholly in bed, and to jl.irect him to move his head as little as possible, II. a- the first three days after the operation. During [I iis time, a dossil of wet lint is kept on his eyes, || overed with a saturnine plaster, compress, and j| indage, as already described. The dressing is i| mewed once every day, and the outsides of the II velids washed with warm water in winter, and | dd in summer. At each time of dressing, the f| :in of the lower lid is drawn gently down, to pre- j| mt any tendency to an inversion. Animal | od is prohibited, and the patient enjoined not to j| Ik much. On the fourth day, he is permitted || sit up, for two or three hours, and, if he has || .d no stool since the operation, a mild opening ’ || edicine is now administered. On the fifth, the 11 ne pf his sitting up is lengthened, and, || esuming that the wound in the cornea is now , !|)sed, Mr. Ware usually examines the state of j| i eye. After this, no dressings need be ap- j| ed in the day-time, care being taken to defend jlfrom a strong light, by a paste-board hood, or 11 ide, and by darkening the room, so that no in- i| nvenienee is felt. The patient may now also ■ i I. k, for a short time, at large objects. The fol- jliving part of the treatment need interfere very L ie with the wishes of the patient, unless unex- j| ted accidents should occur. {Ware.') 11', As Beer observes, if the patient be very rest- j|. 3, make frequent attempts to open his eye in i least, and partly lie upon the eye, or if in j| mging the compresses the greatest caution be used, the eye will perhaps be roughly pressed 11 n, and the iris protrude between the displaced i | . half-opened edges of the incision in the cor- - 11 , to which it will become adherent during a 11 v and very seldom violent inflammation. From ;j| moment, when tiie iris thus interposes itself ; :J| .veen the sides of the wound, the aqueous ■til? j(| lor begins to collect, and at length pushes the " •■1 consitierab’y forwards. In this case, Beer .tw mimends carefully opening the eye in a very jj| derate light, and adopting the expedients for- ||| ly mentioned, for the purpose of making the recede. The dressings should be re-applied, the eye kept closed and very quiet for at least jjj| t or ten days, so as to hinder a recurrence | his disagreeable accident. But, if the iris fir fid be already adherent to the edges of the . dHr^d in the cornea, the eye incapable of bear- lU' hght, and the aqueous humor more or less J|| mulated in the anterior chamber, Beer says, J| v thing must be left to time, while the eye is lightly covered for about a fortnight, and | ’kitting inflammation properly treated. Then, | - protrusion, or staphyloma of the iris should \ be diminished, by the means calculated for mng the inflammation, caustic, or the knife must be employed. (Beer, B. 2, p. 391.) The same causes, which have been above specified, as conducive to a protrusion of the iris, may also produce a discharge of the vitreous humor. The following observations by Beer are inte- resting: when the dressings have been unskilfully applied; when the incision in the cornea has been made horizontally upon a large prominent eye; when the fissure of the eyelids is exceedingly narrow; or the patient is restless; a proper cicatrization of the wound in the cornea may not follow. Though the aqueous humor may collect in the anterior chamber, the partially united lamellce of the cornea may be incapable of duly resisting the distention of that fluid, and conse- quently protrude in the form of a light-grey, semi-transparent, oval vesicle, extending nearly the whole length of the wound in the cornea, and being most prominent in the centre. The patient complains of an annoying sense of pres- sure in the eye, as in cases of protrusion of the iris ; but the discharge of the aqueous humor has completely stopped, and therefore, the ante- rior chamber presents its natural appearance, and the pupil its regular round shape, though the edges of the wound in the cornea are whitish and swollen. This case was formerly regarded as a prolapsus of the membrane of the aqueous humor; but, Beer considers it as a sort of hernia of the cornea, termed ceratocele. Merely puncturing, or cutting away the cyst is of no service; for, though the aqueous humor immediately flows out, the wound soon closes again, and the tumor re- appears, attended also with some risk of the iris falling into the cyst, and becoming adherent to it. Effectual relief cannot be obtained, unless the tumor be removed with Daviel’s scissars, as close as possible to the wound; the dressings skilfully arranged ; and the eye kept closed and quiet for eight days, or a fortnight. In such a case, a whitish scar is always permanently left. (Beer, L>. 2, 393.) Beer observes, that when the pupil contracts very considerably after the incision in the cornea is made, and the cataract at the same time re- mains at some distance from the uvea, too small an opening has generally been made, and it ought to be enlarged. But, if the cataract cannot be forced through the pupil, without making pressure on the lower part of the eyeball, and the closure of the pupil should still continue, the circum- stance proceeds from the loss of the aqueous humor, and the second stage of extraction must be deferred a little while, until the pupil dilates again, and the operation must then be finished in a very moderate light. When in the second stage of the operation, the anterior layer of the capsule has been properly divided, and yet the cataract will not pass into the pupil, though the eye itself acts with energy. Beer says, that it is indispensably necessary to make pressure upon the lower part of the eyeball, as already advised, and to continue it, either until the cataract with its lowermost edge effectually projects through the pupil and out of the eye, or until it is moved so far directly upwards, (with- out entering the pupil) that its lower margin is brought into view, and quite a black semilunar interspace is seen between it and the inferior pu- pillary edge of the iris. At this moment the