TIIROAT. 1032 (See Mean. do Chir. Milit.) Dr. Ilennen also refers to another instance of a similar na- ture. (On Military Surgery, p. 106, Ed. ‘2.) Puncttfred wounds might obviously injure either the carotid, or the internal jugular vein, without the patient expiring of hemorrhage at once; because the smallness of the wound in the skin might hinder the fatal effusion of blood. However, frequently, when these vessels are wounded, the par vagum is also injured, and the case is mortal, either immediately, from the direct effects both of the injury of the nerve, and sudden loss of blood, or very soon afterwards, the bleeding being of a slower and more inter- rupted kind; which circumstance must depend on the lacerated nature of the wound, the small size of the opening in the vessel, or of that in the skin. &c. Persons who attempt suicide, by cutting their throats, do not often divide the carotid artery, on account of their incision being made too high up. Where the carotid arteries emerge from the chest, they are situated by the side of the tra- chea, and even a little more forward than it. However, as these vessels proceed up the neck, they become more laterally situated with respect to the trachea; and when they have arrived at the upper part of the neck, where persons, who aim at suicide, almost always cut, they become situated more backward than the trachea, incli- ning towards the angle of the lower jaw. The oesophagus is so deeply situated, lying close to the bodies of the vertebrae, and behind the trachea, that it is not often interested in any incised wounds, which do not immediately prove fatal, in consequence of the division of other important parts. Yet numerous cases are re- corded, in which the oesophagus is said to have been wounded; and what is usually set down as a criterion of the fact, is the passage of victuals through the wound. In many of these narrations the writers seem to have forgotten, that wounds, made above the os hyoides, as they frequently are, may enter the mouth, and the victuals escape through the cut, without the oesophagus, or pha- rynx, being at all concerned. However, no doubt, the oesophagus has occa- sionally been u'ounded, together with the trachea, not only without the patient perishing so imme- diately as to be incapable of receiving any suc- cour, but without every chance of recovery being destroyed. Stabs, and gun-shot wounds, may in- jure the oesophagus, and leave all other important parts untouched. Nay, when other parts of con- sequence are injured, the patient is sometimes saved. (See Hcnncn's Military Surgery, p. 36ii, Ed. ‘2.) Even where the oesophagus is known to be wounded, its deep situation would prohibit us from doing any thing to the breach of continuity in the tube itself. The best plan would be to have recourse to antiphlogistic means, and to introduce a flexible elastic gum catheter, from one of the nostrils, down the oesophagus, for the purpose of conveying nourishment and me- dicines into the stomach, without any risk ol their passing out at the wound. An instrument of this kind will lie in the above situation for any length of time, without occasioning much incon- venience; and, besides being advantageous for injecting nourishment and medicines down the passage, and keeping them from issuing at the wound, it prevents all necessity for the wounded oesophagus to act, and become disturbed, when there is occasion to take any kind of liquids, whether in the way of medicine or food. The outer wound should be brought together, and treated on common principles. When persons cut their throats, as I have explained, they do not often divide the carotid artery, owing to their incision being usually made high up in the neck, where this vessel has attained a very backward situation. When any serious hemorrhage does arise, it is sometimes from the lower branches of the lingual artery, but most frequently from the superior thyroideal arteries. Such arteries may occasion a fatal bleeding, which, indeed, would more frequently be the event than it actually is, did not the pa- tient often faint, in which state the bleed- ing spontaneously ceases, and gives time for the arrival of surgical assistance. I need hardly tell the reader, that these arte- ries are to be tied, and that this important olject is the first to which the surgeon should direct his attention. The danger of bleeding to death being obviated, as soon as possible, the other requisite measures may be more deliberately executed. With respect to wounds of the trachea, the same plan of conveying food and medicines into the stomach, through an elastic gum catheter, introduced from one of the nostrils down the (Esophagus, is highly proper, though too much neglected. : ' * For notiiing creates such disturbance of the wound as the convulsive elevation and depression of the larynx and trachea, which are naturally attendant on the act of swallowing. When the trachea is cut, the patient’s power of forming the voice is more, or less, impaired, in consequence of the air passing into, and out of, the lungs, chiefly through the wmund. Be- sides air, a considerable quantity of the natural mucus of the trachea is also continually coming out of the wound. The grand means of accomplishing the union of wounds of the trachea, are a proper position of the head, and a rigorous observance of qui- etude. By raising the patient’s head with pil- lows, and keeping his chin close to his breast, the edges of the wound, both in the skill and trachea, are placed in contact even without any other assistance, unless the division of the tra- chea be exceedingly large. It is proper, how- ever, to assist the effect of a suitable position with strips of sticking plaster, and sometimes with a suture or two. But the necessity for su- tures must depend on the extent of the division of the trachea; for, unless most of the circle of this tube be cut, and position be neglected, the wound in it will not gape. The stitches should never be passed through the lining of the tra- chea, as this method would be likely to make it inflame, and occasion considerable coughing and irritation, attended with very pernicious effects. Should there be much coughing, apparently arising from irritation and inflammation in the trachea, bleeding is proper, if other considera- tions do not forbid it. The spermaceti mixture, with opium, is also frequently of great service. I never saw a wound of the trachea unite by the first intention. (See John Bell on JVoutidt,