14 A LVINE CONCRETIONS. which simplicity and quietude are indispensable. Hence, many of these concretions do not pre- sent the slightest vestige of crystallization, while others scarcely shew a trace of it, in the midst of a large misshapen mass. With respect to the special shape assigned by Vicq d'Azyr, to the two classes of alvine concretions, it may be ob- served, that his specimens were taken from ani- mals, and that consequently, the inferences made from them are not applicable to substances of an analogous nature, discharged from the human body; because, as the bile varies in different animals, so must the formative principles of the calculous crystallizations. It is further remarked by Rubini, that the substance termed adipneire. which is the basis of biliary concretions, was not found by Poulletier in hepatic calculi taken from horned cattle. A seventh criterion is founded upon the in- flammability of an alvine calculus. A biliary concretion being commonly made up altogether of unctuous matter, liquefies when subjected to heat, smokes, emits a flame, and burns. When this experiment is made in close vessels, the pro- ducts are hydrogen, carbonic acid gas, oil, and ammonia; some carbon and earth remaining be- hindk An intestinal concretion, on the other hand, decrepitates, or turns black, but does not burn. The eighth criterion depends upon the solu- bility of calculi in an oily menstruum. Haller dissolved biliary calculi in oil of turpentine; Dietrick found them soluble in oil of sweet al- monds; and Gren in oils in general. But, in- testinal calculi are not so readily dissolved by any of these menstrua. The ninth criterion is founded upon the solu- bility of the calculus in alcohol. In biliary cal- culi. this solubility is not always the same. Hav- ing already spoken upon this point, however, it is unnecessary to dwell upon it; and I shall merely add, that, while hepatic concretions are always more or less dissolved by alcohol, those of the gastric kind resist this menstruum. Though the above criteria are interesting, as tending to establish distinctions betwixt the dif- ferent species of alvine concretions, it merits at- tention, that not one of them, taken separately, is at all certain and pathognomonic. It may hap- pen, says Rubini, that some peculiarity in the biliary secretion, and an irregularity in the crys- tallization and accumulation of the matter, may cause salts and earths to predominate in hepatic concretions, in which circumstance, their usual oily quality will be defective. On the other hand, in the formation of an intestinal concretion, oily adipose matter may accidentally adhere to it, so as to disguise its wonted character. If uni- formity of characters and physical properties de- pend upon uniformity of elementary constituent principles, it can hardly happen even in the na- tural healthy state of the secretions, because age, sex, and other particular circumstances of the in- dividual, will always make a difference in the pro- portions of those princ iples. How then can iden- tity of results be expected in a diseased state of the process of secretion ?—Such reflections may explain, how Morgagni, amongst others, met with many biliary calculi, which were not inflam- mable ; with others, which did not give a yellow tinge to water; and with some which floated, or sunk in water, according as they had been re- cently, or long discharged; while Gren found some of these calculi insoluble in alcohol, &c. (Ruhini, p. 24, 25.) Moreali put a piece of the outer part of an al- vine concretion into nitrous acid, when a con- siderable effervescence took place, and the sub- stance afterwards completely dissolved. Now, as this calculus had a nucleus, it must have been of the hepatico-gastric kind, and the experiment was therefore made only with the intestinal part of it. Should the experiment be often repeated with the same result, says Rubini, it would fur- nish another criterion for distinguishing the two species of calculi; those being intestinal, which effervesce, and others being hepatic, which do not effervesce, but yield globules of wax-like oily matter, (e. 28.) For additional chemical observations on biliary and other alvine concretions, the reader is par- ticularly referred to Rubini’s interesting memoir, Vicq d’Azyr’s essay in the Hist, de la Societe Royaled'j Medecine, an. 1779; the writings of Fourcroy and Vauquelin; Thomson’s account of the subject in Monro’s Morbid Anatomy of the Human Gullet, &c.; Marcet on calculous Dis- orders ; and some interesting experiments by Dr. Ure, related in a paper by Mr. Kennedy, in Me- dico-Chir. Journ. Vol. 4, p. 177, &c. With respect to the treatment of cases of biliary calculi, the subject not being generally one, for which any surgical proceeding is advisable, I may be very brief. The medicine, which is al- leged by Durande, a physician at Dijon, to be the best solvent for them, consists of three parts of sulphuric aether, and two parts of oil of tur- pentine. It is to be given in the dose of Qij every morning ; purgatives being previously ex- hibited for a few days. The efficacy of this medi- cine is also corroborated by Soemmering and Richter. To1 these statements, however, some doubts must be attached, because what symptoms and circumstances will ever unequivocally prove, that there were biliary calculi in the bowels; and that they have been dissolved by this medicine? And how can the product of such solution be got at and examined? But, admitting the authenticity of the cases, doubts must exist of the solvent ac- tion of the remedy, since at a temperature, below that of the human body, the aether separates from the turpentine and is volatilized. (See Diet, tics Sciences Me<i. T. 3, p. 464, 465.) A calculus in the gall-bladder, or one of the biliary ducts, sometimes produces so much irrita- tion, that inflammation and suppuration take place, and, if the abscess point outwardly, the stone may escape externally, and a termination be put to the patient’s sufferings. Heberden re- cords a case of this description; and another is given by Mr. Blagden. (See Med. Trims, of the College of Physicians, Vol. 5. and Thomas in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 6. p. 106. And J'or other instances, the following works referred toby Plon- yuet: Acrel, Diss. de Cholelilhis, Upsal. 1788, p. 204 ; Act. Katur. Cur. Vol 6. Ohs. 69 ; Bar! ho- linns, Act. Hafn. 4, Ohs 46; Block, Med. Br- merk.p. 27 ; Gooch's IVorls, Vol. 2. 157—161; Johnston in Phil. Trans. Vol. 50, p. 2, 548; Pe- tit, Mem. de I'Acad. ,le Chir. 1, p. 182—185; Sandijort, Tab. Anat. Fasc. 3; Schlichting in