BRONCHOTOMY. 2-11 quireJ where she felt pain, and she made sucli a sj,Tn ;n reply, as left no doubt concerning the nature of the accident. She put the index linger of her left hand on the trachea, between the larynx and sternum. The fruitless attempts which had been made in the oesophagus, with a view of dislodging the foreign body; the nature and the smallness of this body, which was not such as would be stopped in the passage for the the food; and the facility of swallowing, were negative proofs, that the bean was not in the esophagus. Respiration was the only function , disturbed; it was attended with difficulty, and a rattling in the throat. The little girl ex- pectorated a frothy fluid, and site pointed out so accurately the painful point where the object pro- I ducing all her sufferings was situated, that Louis did not hesitate to declare to the relations, from this single inspection, that the bean was in the windpipe, and that there was only one way of saving the child’s life, which was to make an in- cision, for the purpose of extracting the foreign body. He apprised them, that the operation was neither difficult nor dangerous, that it had suc- ceeded as often as it had been practised, and that the very pressing danger of the case only just allowed time to take the opinion of some other well-informed surgeons, respecting the indis- pensable necessity for such an operation. Louis bought this precaution necessary, in order to icquire the confidence of the parents, and to helter himself from all reproach, in case the vent of the case should not correspond with his :opes. Louis went home to prepare all the re- unites for bronehotomy, and, in two hours, he ■•as informed the surgeons, who were consulted, •aited for him. Since Louis went away, the did had become quiet, and was lying on its J ide asleep. The opinion he had delivered, had een ill-explained by the friends and attendants, nd had been discussed, before his return. They, 'ho had been rendering their assistance, on the jpposition, that the foreign body was in the .•sophagus, evinced surprise at the proposal of xtracting, by an operation, a substance, the pre- mce of which, in any part of this tube, was not avious. Louis explained his advice, in regard > bronehotomy, and he did not expect a doubt be set up against so positive a fact. The in- stigation of truth may authorize objections, to nich those who make them, only give the value nich is due; hut Louis was asked concerning e possibility of the case. It was objected, that substance as large as a bean could not insinuate elf into the trachea. He brought every one H 1° his sentiment, by a short explanation of cases this sort, witli which he himself was acquainted. ie little girl was examined; she was better, than icn Louis saw her before, and a very palpable mhysema was seen above the clavicle, on each ic nt the neck, a symptom which did not exist o hours previously. This swelling made Louis nclude, that the urgency for the operation was II greater. The friends, whose confidence had m shaken by the opposition lie had experienced bringing about unanimity, were in the greatest 'Lirrassment, when they were told, that the dd might die of an operation, which he had re- sented as only a simple incision, free from all nkPr‘ Louis was repeatedly asked, if he would r< sponsible for the child’s life during the ope- ration, and he in vain replied, that if there were any tiling to fear during the operation, it would be from the accident itself, and not from the as- sistance rendered. This distinction was not per- ceived, and Louis withdrew, at the same time re- fusing his consent to the exhibition of two grains of emetic tartar, the effect of which would be use- less, and might be dangerous. The medicine was given in the night: the child was fatigued with its operation, and quite unbenefited. On Tuesday morning, Louis found the little girl very quiet, and they who had paid their visits earlier, found her wonderfully well. The respiration, however, continued to be still attended with a rattling noise, which Louis had observed in the evening, when the breathing was much more la- borious. The child was nearly suffocated several times in the course of the day, and died in the evening, three days after the accident. Bordenave, who had seen the patient, informed Louis of the child’s death on Friday. The body was opened, before a numerous assembly of per- sons. After making a longitudinal incision through the skin and fat, along the trachea, between the sterno-hyoidei muscles, Bordenave slit open the trachea, cutting three of its cartilages. This very instant, every one could see the bean, and Louis took it out with a small pair of forceps. It was manifest, from the ease, with which this foreign body was extracted, that the operation would have had, on the living subject, the most salutary effect. The relations had to regret having sacri- ficed a child, which was dear to them, to an irre- solution and a timidity, which the most persuasive arguments could not remove. (Man. da l’Acad, lloijitle de Chirurgie, Tom. 12, p. 293, <j’r. Edit, iu 12 mo.) This case evinces, in the most decided manner, the symptoms, which result from the presence of foreign bodies in the trachea, and shews the only one surgical proceeding, which can be of use. But, among the phenomena, apparently difficult of explanation, is the calm, which, at different in- tervals, followed the afflicting cough. Anatomy, however, has dispelled much of the doubt on this matter. It is known, that the whole canal of the trachea is much less sensible, than the rima glot- tidis. A foreign body, like a bean, may remain a certain time in that canal without much incon- venience, the passage being only somewhat ob- structed, according to the position of the sub- stance. It may even remain several days, months, or years, without producing any symptom of its presence, except a trivial sensation of ob- struction, and this is what happens, when the body lodges in one of the ventricles of the larynx. Facts of this kind are to he found in Tulpius, Bartholine, and many other observers. But, when the extraneous substance quits its situation, and is carried into the trachea, the irritation, which it produces there, and, particularly, about the larynx, occasions coughing, and if, in the Ills, the foreign body should become fixed between ‘.lie lips of the glottis, it may cause instanta- neous death, ns probably lias happened in many of the cases of suffocation from extraneous sub- stances. Another remarkable circumstance which de- serves more attention, as it confirms the pic- sencc of a foreign body in the trachea, is l ho emphysema, which appeared about the clavicle,