1149 VENEREAL DISEASE. gained ground; but, in the end, both eases were cured, merely sarsaparilla having been ad- ministered. The following observations, con- tained in the appendix to Mr Carmichael’s work, do him infinite credit: “ Although, (says he,) these two cases cannot fail to make a due impression, yet, if they stood alone, their evi- lence could not be deemed sufficient to esta- blish a belief, that true syphilis, like the papular disease, is capable of yielding to the powers of ihe constitution, or to remedies, in which mer- c'cury does not form an ingredient. But, this deficiency seems to be in a great measure sup- plied by the testimony of Mr. Rose, Mr. Hen- ::aen, and other equally intelligent surgeons, who had the advantage of serving with our army on the continent; and, if in the preceding pages, I tappear to be sceptical, with respect to the accu- racy of their observations, and doubted, that it .vas true chancre, and true syphilitic eruption, which yielded to their prescriptions, unaided by ^mercury, these two cases have satisfied me. that :every attention is due to the exactness and dis- cernment of these respectable individuals; and, if I hesitated until I saw with my own eyes, and i judged with my own understanding, I claim for : my own observations no larger a measure of faith : irom others.” And, he afterwards adds, “ In t thus relinquishing my opinion, that true syphilis differs from other venereal complaints, by always requiring mercury for its cure, it is necessary to :reduce the doctrine I hold to this proposition: ;‘hat, with respect to the use of that medicine, it i differs from them only in not being injured, but decidedly benefited by it in all its 'symptoms and : -tages.”" (P. 218, 219.) According to Mr. Hunter, there are three ways, in which chancres may be produced: first, by the poison being inserted into a wound; secondly, by being applied to a non secreting •surface; and, thirdly, by being applied to a com- mon sore. A wound, it seems, is much more readily infected, than a sore. To whichever of these three different surfaces the pus is applied, :l produces its specific inflammation and ulcera- ! don> attended with a secretion of pus. The mat- ter, produced in consequence of these different : modes of application, he says, partakes of the same nature as the matter, which was applied, 'because, he observes, the irritations are alike, lllow the alleged examples of very different porimary sores being sometimes communicated by tthe application of the matter of chancre, are to ibe reconciled with the Hunterian doctrines, it is difficult to suggest, unless Mr. Carmichael’s observation about the present excessive rarity of ' the true syphilitic chancre, can furnish the ex- planation. However, as far as I can believe my own eyes and judgment, I now see in London the same forms of chancre, which used to pre- vail during my apprenticeship at St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital more than twenty years ago. And, if any difference can be particularized, it is only that, which depends upon their being less rarely converted into worse diseases, than mere syphilitic ulceration, by the dreadful effects of immoderate course**of mercury. Vith respect to the three inodes, in which Mr. unter speaks of the venereal poison being ap- |> ie< and taking effect, I know not why he should are altogether excluded secreting surfaces; for, of this nature (as a late writer remarks) are the glans penis and corona glandis, (Bacot on Sy- philis, p. 55,) and, of a similar kind, are the insides of the labia, the surfaces of the nymphae, &e., where sores are common enough. What- ever may be the truth of the impossibility of the formation of chancres within the urethra, the latter considerations certainly tend to prove, that the secreting nature of its membrane, is not the only reason for the alleged fact. 1 shall not here detain the reader with descrip- tions of the primary ulcer with elevated edges, the phagedenic, and the sloughing chancre. Such descriptions 1 have embodied in the last edition, of the First Lines of Surgery, with the sentiments of Mr. Carmichael, respecting the train of con- stitutional symptoms, appertaining, as he believes, to each form of ulcer. It is an interesting dis- quisition, but, as far as my observations and in- quiries go, it has not yet reached any degree of certainty or precision ; and, as I have already ex- plained, the reports published by other gentlemen, engaged in this investigation, do not by any means confirm the much desired intelligence, that such progress has been made in the know- ledge of all the diversified symptoms of the ve- nereal disease, that its varieties can now be class- ed, both in regard to the primary ulcers, and the secondary symptoms connected with each de- scription of chancre. I firmly believe, that, with respect to all the appearances of this disease, both in its primary and secondary forms, a vast deal depends upon constitution, independently of the nature of the virus. And, I adopt this opinion, at the same time, that many reflections, already hinted at in this article, lead me to join in the belief, that sy- philitic diseases may depend upon a variety of poisons, whereby some of the perplexity of these cases may be explained. The local, or immediate effects of the venereal disease are seldom wholly specific; but, are usu- ally attended both with the specific and constitu- tional inflammation. Hence, Mr. Hunter ad- vises particular attention to be paid to the man- ner in which a chancre first appears, and to its progress. If the inflammation spreads in a quick and considerable way, the constitution must be more disposed to inflammation, than natural. When the pain is severe, Mr. Hunter remarks, there is a strong disposition to irrita- tion. Chancres, also, sometimes, soon begin to slough, there being a strong tendency to morti- fication. It is also observed by Mr. Hunter, that when there is a considerable loss of substance, either from sloughing or ulceration, a profuse bleeding is no uncommon circumstance, more especially, when the ulcer is on the glans. The adhesive inflammation -does not appear to take place suf- ficiently to unite the veins of this part of the pe- nis, so as to prevent their cavity from being ex- posed, and the blood escapes from the corpus spongiosum urethrte. The ulcers, or sloughs, often extend as deeply as the corpus caver- nosum penis, and similar bleedings are the con- sequence. With respect to chancres in women, the labia and nymphse, like the glans penis in men, are subject to ulceration, and the ulcerations are ge- nerally more numerous in females, than males,