ANEURISM. 141 ready to be tightened in case of need. These were of course higher up, than the ligature, which was tightened. It is therefore impossible, that this last could have been close to the origin of the profunda. There must have been room left for the application of the ligatures d’aitente; and be checked, seemed to be accelerated by this novtd it also recollected, that the French still persist in experiment. The operator was obliged, asa last teries, and that the tumour would be finally ab- sorbed. These speculations, however, were not found to answer in practice. Deschamps tied the femoral artery below an inguinal aneurism ; but the progress of the disease, instead of being the use of large flat cords, and not small firm round ligatures, which are now found to be most advantageous. (See Hemorrhage.) In this part of the dictionary, we shall find, that the nearness of a collateral vessel impedes the formation of the internal coagulum, which has a material share in the process by which the artery is closed. With respect to the circumstance of hemor- rhage being more likely to follow, when the liga- ture is placed close below, than at some distance from a great collateral artery, there cannot be a doubt of the fact. Roux, when in London, saw an occurrence of this kind himself, and has pub- lished it in his book. It was a case, in which Mr. A. Cooper tied the external iliac artery; but the patient died of hemorrhage a fortnight after- wards, and on opening the body, it was ascertain- ed, that the obturator artery, which usually arises either from the trunk of the internal iliac, or from the epigastric, proceeded from the external iliac, and arose immediately above the point, to which •the ligature was applied. (See Parullele de la Cliir. Angloise avcc la Cliir. Framboise, fyc. p. 278, 279.) From a preparation, spoken of by Mr. Tra- vers, and some experiments made by the same gentleman, it would appear, that the presence of a collateral branch hinders the formation of the internal coagulum, and will not always prevent the closure of the vessel by the adhesive inflammation. In the preparation referred to, a ligature was applied to the external iliac, be- tween the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries, “ and having been in contact with the former at the angle which it makes at its origin from the iliac, ulceration had taken place, and the bleeding had proved fatal. There was no coagulum formed in the iliac trunk, though theoperation had been performed several days, the circulation through the epigastric having continued. But the lymph- plug at the scat of the ligature on the iliac artery was complete.” (Med. Chir. Trans, Vol. 6- p. 056.) Indeed, it must be allowed, with this gen- tleman, that the fluidity of the blood does not prevent the adhesive process, a fact, which, he observes, is also proved in the indirect obstruc- tion of a vessel, by means of a temporary liga- ture, or compressor. When, therefore, the vici- nity of a large branch to the ligature is spoken of as a circumstance conducive to secondary hemorrhage, I mean, that it is so inasmuch as the internal coagulum is regarded as useful in promoting the closure of the vessel, and its form- ation is prevented. Brasdor first, and afterwards the celebrated Desault conceived, that, when an aneurism was so situated, that a ligature could not be applied to the artery' leading to the swelling, a cure might possibly arise from tying the vessel, on that side of the tumour, which was most remote ffom the heart. Desault conjectured, that by this means, the circulation through the sac would be stopped, the blood in it would coagulate, that the circulation would go on by the collateral nr- iged, resource, to open the tumour, and try to take up 'the vessel. In this attempt, the patient lost a large quantity of blood, and died eight hours afterwards. (See Oeuvres Cliir. de Desault pur Bichat, Tom. 2, p, 5C3, and Recueil Periodiquede la Societe de Medecine de Paris, Tom. 5. No 17.) The operation of tying the artery below the tumour was some time ago repeated by Mr. A. Cooper, not for an aneurism of the femoral ar- tery in the groin, but for an aneurism of the external iliac, where tying the artery above the swelling was impracticable. The femoral artery was therefore tied immediately below Poupart’s ligament, between the origins of the epigastric and the profunda. The pulsations of the tumour continued ; but, the progress of the disease was checked. After a time, indeed, the swelling de- creased, and this in so considerable a manner, that hopes began to be entertained, that perhaps the external iliac artery might soon admit of be- ing tied above the disease. The ligatures came away without any unfavourable occurrence, and when the wound was healed, the patient was sent into the country for the benefit of the change of air. The tumour, however, gave way, an extra- vasation of blood took place in the abdomen and cellular membrane of the pelvis, and the patient died. Mr. A. Cooper had no opportunity of seeing the case, and the body could not be opened, so that further particulars were not ob- tained. The memorable instance, in which this gentle- man tied the aorta, in a case of inguinal aneu- rism, extending very high up, and already burst, I shall notice under the head Aorta. I shall finish these general observations on the treatment of external aneurisms, or such as admit more particularly of surgical treatment, with observing, that, in England, surgeons now lose few patients either from gangrene of the limb or secondary hemorrhage; and this notwith- standing they may sometimes prefer applying a ligature above the profunda to cutting open the aneurismal tumour. I firmly believe, that such matchless success is to be totally ascribed to the perfections in their mode of operating; the choice of a proper kind of ligature; the right plan of applying it; the rejection of the employment of several ligatures at a time; and the great care which is taken to promote the healing of the wound, as quickly as possible; the avoidance of all unnecessary and hurtful extraneous substances in the wound; and above all, the relinquishment of the formidable proceeding of cutting open the tumor. In the consideration of particular aneurisms, I shall begin with those which may be cured by a surgical operation; and, here we shall be fully satisfied, that, “ Cart degu6rir velriomphe jamais plus heureusement que lorsqu'il pent employer la medecine efficace, Pest it dire, Us moyens chinit- fticaux ou operatoires,” (Clinique Chirurgicalc, Tom. 1, ]>• 110.)