DISLOCATION. 368 The clavicle may he luxated at its sternal ex- tremity, forwards, backwards, and upwards, but never downwards, on account of the situation of the cartilage of the first rib. The luxation for- ward is the most frequent, and almost the only one ever met with. It may arise from the other end ol the clavicle being forced very much back- ward. Dislocations backwards and upwards are very unusual. To cause the first sort of acci- dent, the shoulder must be violently driven for- wards, and at the same time depressed with great lorce. The dislocation backwards is more rare, than that upwards. Ii the dislocation be forwards, a hard circum- scribed tumor is felt, or even seen, on the front and upper part of the sternum. When the shoulder is carried forward and outward, this tumor disappears, and previously, there was a vacancy where the head of the clavicle ought to be. When the luxation is upwards, the distance between the sternal ends of the clavicles is diminished. When the dislocation is backwards, there is a depression where the end of the clavicle ought to be, and the head of the bone forms a projec- tion at the front and lower part of the neck, which, as J. L. Petit remarks, may compress the trachea, (Esophagus, jugular vein, carotid artery, and nerves. The head is inclined towards the side, on which the accident itself is situated. In reducing these dislocations of the sternal end of the clavicle, we are to make a lever of the arm, bv means of which the shoulder is brought outwards; and when thus brought outwards, it is to be pushed forwards, if the dislocation be in that direction ; backwards, if the dislocation be behind; and upwards, if the dislocation be above. It is as difficult to keep the bone reduced, as it is easy to reduce it, so smooth and oblique are the articular surfaces. The same position of the arm, and the same apparatus, as in fractures of the clavicle, are to be employed. The end of the clavicle, however, can never be kept from rising a little, and this would be the case even were the tourniquet used, which was proposed by Brasdor, for making pres- sure on the end of the bone. The dislocation of the capsular end of the clavicle from the acromion is much less common. The luxation upwards is almost the only one that ever occurs. It is possible, however, for the accident to take place downwards, and for the end of the clavicle to glide under the acromion. The rarity of dislocations of the capsular end of the cla- vicle, is owing to the strength of the ligaments tying the clavicle and acromion together. A fall on the top of the shoulder may cause the dislocation upwards. The scapular end of the clavicle then slides upwards on the acromion, and the shoulder is drawn inwards by the mus- cles which approximate the arm to the body. The violent action of the trapezius muscle, in pulling upward the clavicle, may tend to produce the accident. Fain at the top of the shoulder, and a projection at the end of the clavicle, under the skin "covering the acromion, are symptoms indicating what has happened. 1 he patient also inclines his head to the affected side, ami avoids moving his arm or shoulder. This dislocation is reduced by carrying the shoulder outwards, putting a cushion in the axilla, and applying Desault’s bandage for fractures of the clavicle, (See Fractures,) making the turns as- cend from the elbow to the shoulder, so as to press the luxated end of the bone downward, and keep it in its due situation, at the same time that the elbow is confined close to the side, and supported in a sling, by which means the shoulder will be kept raised and inclined outwards. This plan, which is advised by Boyer, is more efficient than j the common practice, which consists in applying a compress, the figure of 8 bandage, and support- ing the arm in a sling. However, the exact maintenance of the reduction by any apparatus | whatever, is found to be a matter of the greatest difficulty, though it is agreeable to know, that notwithstanding this disadvantage, the cases al- ways have a favourable termination. In the course of my time, I have seen several cases in proof of this statement, and one example was shewn mo last summer by Mr. Vincent, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. DISLOCATIONS OP THE OS BE.ACHII. Nature, which varies according to the neces- j: sities of different animals, the number of their joints, has also been provident enough to vary | the structure of these parts, according to the use : of the different portions of their economy. To ! great moveableness some unite considerable so- lidity; for instance, the vertebral column. Others U are very strong, but only admit of a slight yield- j ing motion, as wo observe in the carpus, tarsus, &c. Lastly, other joints admit of a great lati- 'j tude of motion; but their strength is easily over- I powered by the action of external bodies. Such ij are, in man. the shoulder-joint, and that between . 1 the sternum and clavicle. The last kinds of articulation are particularly j subject to dislocation, and, of all, not one is I so often luxated as the shoulder-joint. Bichat i. mentions, that it appears, frGpn a comparative,j iij: table, that, in some years, this accident at the In; Hotel-Dieu, has been as frequent, and even more so, than dislocations of all the other bones |, taken collectively. Here every thing seems to facilitate the es- j j. cape of the bone from its natural cavity. An I oval shallow cavity, surrounded by a margin of j [ little thickness, receives a semi-spherical head, I which is twice as broad as the cavity in the per- j j pendicular diriction, and three times as exten- sive from before backward. V. ith respect to the i I ligaments, the joint is only strengthened by a | |. mere capsule, which is thin below, where nothing jj opposes a dislocation ; but thicker above, where H the acromion, coracoid process, and triangular* [. ligament, form an almost insurmountable ob-ta-j: ele to such an accident. With regard to the h muscles, and motions of this joint, strong and I# numerous fasciculi surround the articular sur-p , faces, make them easily move in all directions*’ and pushing the head of the os brachii against £ the different points of the capsule, distend this ligamentous bag. and when their power cxeccos »• i. the resistance, actually lacerate it. As lor ex- 1 ternal bodies, what bone is more exposed than [ ; , the us brachii, to the effect olTluir force? '