565 HEAD. ■old place. (Col. cit. p. 153.) Or, in order to ivail ourselves of the full frigorific effects of this nixture, it should be prepared, as Dr. Hennen ■bserves, in small quantities, and used imme- liatelv, before its temperature has risen; or, ‘ snow, or pounded iee, or ice-water, applied to he parts in a half filled bladder, or cloths simply ipped in cold water, will often answer every urpose.” [On Military Surgery, p. z79, Eel. .) Dr. Hennen mentions one important fact, i recommendation of cold applications, antimo- ia!s, and saline purgatives, preceded by the ammon blue pill, and assisted with quiet, and astinence, viz. by such means, “ those trouble- jj nne puffy enlargements and erysipelatous af- ctions of the scalp, which so often succeed to uises,” are prevented, and, where the evacuant an is duly observed, the “ extensive and for- idable erysipelatous affections, so common fur- erly, are rare and mild at present in military •jspitals.” : Effects of Contusion on the Dura Mater and Parts within the Skulli It is observed by Mr. Pott, that by blows, falls, id other shocks, some of the larger of those .-ssels which carry on the communication be- ■een the dura mater and the skull are broken, d a quantity of blood is shed upon the surface that membrane This is one species of bloody travasation, and indeed the only one which n be formed between the skull and dura mater, the broken vessels be few, and the quantity of >od which is shed be small, the symptoms are nerally slight, and by proper treatment dis- pear. If thej- are large, or numerous, or the antity of extravasated fluid considerable, the nptoms are generally urgent in proportion ; t whether they be slight, or considerable, ether immediately alarming or not, they are vays, and uniformly, such as indicate pressure ide on the brain and nerves, viz. stupidity, nvsiness, diminution or loss of sense, speech, d voluntary motion. According to Mr. Pott, it also often happens, m the same kind of violence, that some of the all vessels, which carry on the circulation ween the pericranium, skull, and dura mater, so damaged, as not to be able properly to :cute that office, although there are none so ken as to cause an actual effusion of blood. “ Smart and severe strokes on the middle part the bones, at a distance frpm the sutures, are st.frequently followed by this kind of mis- ef; the coats of the small vessels, which sus- i the injury, inflame and become sloughy, and, tonsequence of such alteration in them, the icrunium separates from the outside of that t of the bone, which received the blow, and dura mater from the inside, the latter of ch membranes, soon after such inflammation, omes sloughy aiso, and furnishes matter, ch matter being collected between the said mbrane and the cranium, and having no na- "i* outlet, whereby to escane, or be discharged, on a train of very terrible symptoms, and * very frequent cause of destruction. The ict of this kind of violencejs frequently con- 'd to the vessels connecting the dura mater he cranium, in which case, the matter is exter- nal to the said membrane; but it sometimes happens, that by the force either of the stroke or of the concussion, the vessels which pass between and connect the two meninges are injured in the same manner; in which case, the matter formed in consequence of such violence is found on the surface of the brain, or between the piu and dura mater, as well as on the surface of the latter • or, perhaps, in all these three situations at the same time. “ The difference of this kind of disease, from either an extravasation of blood, or a commotion of the medullary parts of the brain, is great and obvious. All the complaints produced by extra- vasation, are, such as proceed from pressure made on the brain and nerves, and obstruction to the circulation of the bl od through the former; stupidity, loss of sense and voluntary motion, laborious and obstructed pulse and respiration, &c. and (which is of importance to remark,) if the effusion he at all considerable, these sym- ptoms appear immediately, or very soon after the accident. “The symptoms attending an inflamed or slough}7 state of the membranes, in consequence of external violence, are very different; they are all of the febrile kind, and never, at first, imply any unnatural pressure ; such are, pain in the head, restlessness, want of sleep, frequent and hard pulse, hot and dry skin, flushed countenance, inflamed eyes; nausea, vomiting, rigor; and toward the end, convulsion and delirium. And none of these appear at first, that is, imme- diately after the accident ; seldom until some, days are passed. *' One set or class of symptoms is produced by an extravasated fluid, making such pressure on the brain and origin of the nerves, so as to impair or abolish voluntary motion and the senses; the other is caused by the inflamed or putrid state of the membranes covering the brain, and seldom affects the organs of sense, until the latter end of the disease, that is, until a con- siderable quantity of matter is formed, which matter must press like any other fluid. “ If there be neither fissure nor fracture of the skull, nor extravasation, nor commotion under- neath it, and the scalp be neither considerably bruised, nor wounded, the mischief is seldom discovered or attended to for some few days. The first attack is generally by pain in the part which received the blow. This pain, though be- ginning in that point, is soon extended all over the head, and is attended with a languor, or de- jection of strength and spirits, which are soon followed by a nausea, and inclination to vomit, a vertigo or giddiness, a quick and hard pulse, and an incapacity of sleeping, at least quietly. A day or two after this attack, if no means pre- ventive of inflammation are used, the part stricken generally swells, and becomes puffy, and ten- der, but not painful; neither does the tumor rise to any considerable height, or spread to any great extent: if this tumid part of the scalp be now divided, the pericranium will be found of a darkish hue; and either quite detached, or very easily separable from the skull, between which and it will be found a small quantity ot a dark- colored ichor. “ If the disorder has piade such progress, that