472 FRACTURES. neither capsular ligament, nor smooth cartila- ginous surfaces. On the contrary, I have in- variably found, in the false joints of the thigh- bone and humerus, which I have had opportunities of dissecting, a fibrous ligamentous substance ex- tending from one fragment to the other, and it is very probable, that, with some modifications, it is the same with all the other cases, which I have not seen. “ But, in the fore-arm, the ends of the frac- ture may assume a structure, which bears a greater resemblance to an articulation. This is what happened in an example, which was com- municated to Bayle by Silvestre, in the Repub- lique des Lettres, Juillet 1685, p. 718, &c. A similar case is recorded by Fabricius Hildanus, Obs. 91. Centur. 3.” (Boyer, Traits des Mat. Chir. T. 3, p. 101—103.) On this subject, Langenbeck observes, that the edges of the fragments heal, and resemble those of a harelip. '• When the parts are in- cessantly moved, the end of one fragment be- comes excavated, in the form of an articular cavity. I have in my possession (says he) a lower jaw, and an olecranon, the fractures of which are not united. For the connecting me- dium, nature has provided a white substance, re- sembling ligament. In a male patient, I have also seen an articular connexion established in the body of the thigh-bone, subsequently to a fracture.” (Neue Bibl. B. 1, p. 93.) When a capsule is formed, it is alleged not to be of a ligamentous nature. (Bichat, Anatomie Gennale, T. 3, p. 191.) In the Hunterian Collection may be seen a false joint in the bones of the fore-arm, where the resemblance to a natural articulation was greater, than what Boyer has seen in other situa- tions. A valuable dissertation on false joints has been published ,by Reisseisen, entitled “ De Articulationibus anulngis, qua; fracturis ossium superveniuntbut, I am sorry, that it has not been in my power to meet with a copy of it. A false joint in the arm, or fore-arm, does not absolutely prevent the motion of the limb, which may yet be of considerable use; but, when the disease is in the thigh, or leg, the member can- not support the weight of the body, and the pa- tient is unable to walk without crutches. The diversity of causes, which may be con- cerned in preventing the union of fractures, plainly shews, that the treatment should be dif- ferent in different cases. When the want of union is ascribable to the ends of the fracture not being in a state of co- aptation, and to their having been moved about too frequently, the obvious indications are, to set the fracture better, and to take adequate mea- sures for keeping its extremities in contact and perfectly motionless. If the union has been prevented by a portion of muscle or other soft part, getting between the ends of the bone, the only means of afford- ing a chance of union, would be cutting through the integuments, removing the displaced soft parts, and placing the ends of the bone in con- tact. (War dr op in Med. Chir. Trims. Vol. 5, p. 360.) When the advanced age of the patient seems to be the cause of the union not taking place, the application of the proper apparatus is to be continued a considerable time, since experience proves, that, in old subjects, the cure of fractures often requires many months. In such examples, also, tonic and cordial medicines, with a nutritive diet, are highly proper. When several months have elapsed since the accident, and there is reason to apprehend that a preternatural joint is formed, a variety of plans have been proposed and practised. The most ancient method of treatment is that of forcibly rubbing the ends of the fracture against each other, so as to make them in- flame, and take on a disposition to form callus. This plan was recommended by the late Mr. John Hunter, and has had the approbation of many other distinguished modern practitioners. Mr. Hunter used even to advise us, in the case of a disunited fracture of the leg, or thigh, to let the patient get up, and attempt to walk with the splints on the limb, so that the requisite irrita- tion might be produced. The idea of exciting a degree of inflammation in the situation of the fracture, certainly appears rational, and I believe, the practice has been attended with a limited degree of success. Mr. White records an example, in which he cured a broken thigh on this principle, a strong leather case having been made for the limb. (Cases in Surgery, p. 75.) The method is spoken of in Celsus: si vetustas occupavit, membrum eitendendum est ut aliquid Icedatur: ossa inter se manu di- mnvenda, ut concurrendo exusperenlur, et ut si quid pingue est, eradatur, totumque id quasi recensfiat; #c. / The foregoing treatment, however, is only- likely to answer, before a new joint, or at .all events a ligamentous fibrous connexion, is com- pletely formed, and when the limb has hitherto been kept entirely' motionless. When the case is old, and there is every cause for believing, that a preternatural articulation, or fibrous ligamentous connexion has taken place, we are advised to cut down to the ends of the bone, rasp or saw them off, and then treat the limb, just as if the case tvere a recent compound fracture. This bold practice was first suggested by Mr. C. White: “ Robert Elliot, ofEyham, in Derby- shire, a very healthful boy, nine years old, had the misfortune, about midsummer, in the year 1759, by a fall, to fracture-the humerus, near the middle of the bone. He was immediately taken to a bone-setter in that neighbourhood, who applied a bandage and splints to his arm, and treated him as properly,” says Mr. White, “ as I suppose he was capable of for two or three months. His endeavours, however, were by no means productive of the desired -effect, the bones not being at all united. A surgeon of eminence, in Bakewell, was afterwards called in; but as he soon found ho could be of no service to him, and as the case was very' curious, he advised the lad’s friends to send him to the Infirmary at Man- chester. He was accordingly brought thither the Christmas following, and admitted an in-pa- tient Upon examination, we found it to be a simple oblique fracture, and that the ends of the bone rode over each other: his arm was become not only entirely useless, but even a burthen to him, and not likely to be otherwise, as there was