1172 VERTEBRAE. DISEASE OF. do take place early, are not unequivocal; they are, according to this writer, “ a pain, and some de- gree of tenderness in that part of the spine where the disease has begun ; a 6ense of con- striction of the chest; an uneasy feeling at the pit of the stomach, and of the whole abdomen ; a disturbed state of the functions of the ali- mentary canal, and of the urinary bladder; a sense of weakness and aching, and occasional cramps of the muscles of the extremities.” But, as Mr. Brodie confesses, very similar sym- ptoms may arise from other causes, and some- times no particular complaints are made previ- ously to the actual discovery of the curvature. (On Diseases of Joints, p. 279, 280.) I have already mentioned Mr. Brodie’s opi- nion, deduced from dissection, that, in many in- stances, caries of the spine has its origin in an ulceration of the intervertebral cartilages, be- ginning in their centre, and extending to their circumference, and afterwards affecting the bo- dies of the contiguous vertebra?; but that, in other cases, the disease has its origin in the bo- dies of the vertebrae themselves, which are liable to the same peculiar disease of the cancellous structure, which is noticed in the articulating extremities of other bones. (Brodie on Dis- eases of Joints, p. 267.) This gentleman suspects that the disease, which begins in the cancellous structure of the vertebrae, is more immediately followed by suppuration, than that which commences in the intervertebral carti- lages ; and that the first form of the disease sel- dom occasions so extensive a destruction of the vertebra?, as the last. “ But (says Mr. Brodie) farther than this, nothing which I have hitherto observed, enables me to point out any circum- stances, in which the symptoms of these dif- ferent diseases differ.” (P. 27G.) Respecting another statement, that when the lumbar verte- brae are alone affected, the symptoms dependent on pressure, or irritation, of the spinal marrow, are absent, I cannot say that it accords with se- veral cases which have fallen under my own notice, that is to say, if the affection of the lower limbs is to be received as a test of such irritation or pressure. According to Mr. Pott, the true curvature is invariably uniform, in being from within out- wards; but, it varies in situation, in extent, and in degree; it affects the neck, the back, or the loins; it comprehends one vertebra only, or two, or more; and as few or more are affected, or as these are more or less morbid, and consequently give way more or less, the curve must be dif- ferent. In these cases, as Mr. Brodie remarks, “ the distortion of the spine is usually of a peculiar kind, and such as nothing can produce, except the destruction of the bodies of one, or more, vertebrae. The spine is bent forward, so as to form an angle posteriorly; and although the ’ destruction of the vertebrae may be the same, it is more obvious in some parts of the spine than it is in others. For example, the spinous pro- cesses in the middle of the back being long, and projecting downwards, the elevation of one of these must occasion a greater prominence, than flint nf nnp nf llin sninnlis m'OCeSSCS ol tile fleck. wards, may arise from other causes, as a weak condition of the muscles, or a rickety affection of the bones. In general, in sucli cases, the cur- vature occupies the whole spine, which assumes the form of a segment of a circle. At other times, however, it occupies only a portion of the spine, usually that which is formed by the supe- rior lumbar and inferior dorsal vertebrae.” But here, as Mr. Brodie has found, the curvature is always gradual, and never angular; a circum- stance by which it is distinguishable from the curvature produced by' caries. The cases, how- ever, he thinks, have often been confounded, and some speedy and complete cures of carious spine on record, he infers, must have been cases of an entirely different nature. (On Diseases if Joints, p. 282, §c. and Earle, in Edinb. Med. Journ. Jan. 1815.) Lateral curvatures of the spine are alleged generally to incline to the right side; and the fact is referredj(with what correctness, I know not), to the undue power, which is acquired by the more general use of the right arm, and of other muscles, in the performance of the volun- tary actions.” (Boynton on Diseases of the Spine, p. 43.) It is admitted, however, that exceptions are met with, and that the lateral cur- vature sometimes tends ;to the left, and occa- sionally resembles the letter S reversed. On this subject, I have also another rare exception to specify, which is explained by Mr. Brodie, viz. that though lateral distortion of the spine gene- rally arise, from causes independent of caries, a slight degree of lateral curvature is, in some instances, produced byT the bodies of the verte- brae having been destroyed on one side, by ca- ries, in a greater degree, than on the other. (Brodie on Joints, p. 284.) In general, the lower limbs alone usually feel the effect. Mr. Pott, however, had seen two cases, in one of which the arms only were affected; in the other, both legs and arms. Mr. Ford shewed him a lad, who had lost the use of both arms and legs from a curvature. An account of two similar examples was also com- municated to Mr. Pott by Mr. Parke, of Liver- pool. Mr. Brodie has never known the paralysis affect the muscles of the arms, when the disease was at the lower or middle part of the spine; but he agrees, with Mr. Copeland, that the sym- ptoms are not always confined to parts below the disease, and that it is not uncommon for pains in the upper extremities to accompany the para- lytic affection of the legs and thighs. (Brodie, p. 285. Copeland, Ol>s. on Diseased Spine, #c.) Very soon after the curvature, somepatients are rendered totally and absolutely incapable not only of walking, but of using their legs in any' man- ner; others can makeshift to move about with the help of crutches, or byr grasping their thighs just above the knees with both hands; some can sit in an armed chair, without much trouble or fa- tigue ; others cannot sit up with any help ; some retain such a degree of power of using their leg.4 ns to be able to shift their posture when in bed; others have no such power, and are obliged to be moved imon nil occasions.