646 HERNIA. with inflammatory action within the head. It is highly probable, therefore, that a hernia cerebri is only produced when these deep-seated changes are conjoined with the removal of bone. The changes alluded to, may be supposed to cause an increase in the general contents of the skull, and thus a disposition to protrusion, as rapid as the serum and other fluids are eli’used. This state- ment, however, can only be received as an hy- pothesis, because we find, that in one of the dis- sections, described by Mr. Stanley, “ there ex- isted a considerable space between the upper surface of the right hemisphere, all around the situation of the protrusion and the internal sur- face of the dura mater, while, in every other part, the brain and dura mater were in close contact.” (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 27.) Now, the idea of an empty space within the cranium is rather inconsistent with the sup- position, that the brain is thrust out, in conse- quence of changes, which augment the quantity of the general contents of the skull, unless such space were filled with air, that had no external communication. When the bad symptoms disappear, on the tumor being no longer confined by the dura mater, some practitioners deem it best to inter- fere as little as possible, and let the tumor drop off in pieces. (See Edinb. Med. Comment. Vol. 1, p. 98. Med. Museum, Vol. 4, p. 463.) The mildest dressings are to be employed ; but whether the protrusion should be resisted by pressure, or not, seems unsettled. When the tumor acquires a very great size, it maj' be pared off with a knife, as was done by Mr. Hill, in several instances, with success. {Cases in Surgery, 8vo. Edinb. 1772.) In one of the cases, published by Mr. Stanley, the patient, a boy about eleven years of age, re- covered after the upper part of the tumor had been pared off, and some of the removed sub- stance found to consist decidedly both of cortical and medullary substance. In this instance, the reproduction of the tumor was checked by firm pressure with graduated compresses, and a bandage. The protruded brain gradually lost its natural color; it acquired a light yellow ap- pearance, was split into several portions, and a very fetid odour exhaled from it. Its substance daily became softer, ultimately acquiring almost a semi-fluid state, and in this condition the whole mass gradually wasted away. Fresh granu- lations arose to Jill up the vacancy, and they !were manifestly produced from the exposed sub- stance of the brain. Compression being conti- nued, the part now quickly healed up. (See Med. Chir. Trans, p. 20, 21.) In a third case, the part of t.he tumor cut off consisted entirely of cortical and medullary substance, quite healthy in its appearance (p. 24); and subsequently granulations were formed from the exposed surface of the brain. The case, how- ever, had a fatal termination. By the removal of the swelling, and the use of compression, one cure was effected by Mr. Bring. (See Edinb. Med. and Surgical Journ. Vol. 9.) Rieherand affirms, indeed, generally, that when the brain is exposed, in consequence of an injury of the head, the cncephalocele should be cut down with a knife, and repressed by gentle compression. (See JVosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 318, Ed. 4.) The cases published by Mr. Stanley are ratlier favourable to the employment of pressure, inas- much as it appeared evidently to check the pro- trusion, and was mostly borne without incon- venience. The idea, however, that when the brain pro- trudes through the dura mater, pressure can effect its return, is, as Mr. Stanley judiciously observes, quite untenable. {Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 36.) Quesnay mentions an instance, in which a patient tore off the protruded mass himself, and the cavity healed up. {Mem. de l’Acad, de Chir. T. 1.) Van Swieten relates a case, in which the swelling was repeatedly removed with a ligature, and a cure ensued. (Comment, T. 1, p. 440.) The danger of applying styp- tics, and irritating applications, is shewn by Hi! danus, Obs. 14, and Mr. Hill, yr. 198. Baron Larrey considers the treatment by ex- cision, pressure, and spirituous applications, hurtful and dangerous: his advice is merely to apply to the swelling a pledget of slightly cam- phorated oil of camomile; to have recourse to cooling aperient beverages; to remove all kinds of irritation ; to exclude the air; and apply the dressings with great gentleness. By these means, the only case which Larrey ever saw recover, was saved, and in it the tumor was small. {Mem. de Chir. Mil. T. 4, p. 206.) One would suppose, that cases of this kind must generally require the employment of every thing at all likely to keep off, and diminish, in- flammation of the brain. Quesnay, sur la Mul tipliciti des Trepans, in Mim. de l'Acad. Roy-, ale de Chirurgie, T. 2, p. 25, 56, Ed. in 12moj M. Corvin’s Dissert, in Haller's Disputat. Chir. Vol. 2. Memoire sur VEnccpluilocclt par M. Fcrrand, in Mem. de VAcad, dc Chir. T. 13, p. 96, Edit. 12mo. Lassus, Patho- logic Chirurgicale, T. 2, p. 140, Edit. 1809 Abcrnethy's Essay on Injuries of the Head. Hill's Cases in Surgery. Burrows in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 2. Callisen, Systems Chirurgiee Hodiermz, Vol. 2, p. 512, Ed 1800. C. Bell’s Operative Surgery, Vol. 1 Richter's Ansfangsgriindc dcr TVundarznegi kunst, B. 2, p. 197, Ed. 1802. Riclicrand Nosograpliic Chir. T. 2, p. 316, Edit. 41 Paris, 1815. Dr. J. Thomson's Report of 01i serrations made in the Military Hospitals i; Belgium, p. 57, Edinb. 1816. Dclpccli Precis Elenientairc des Maladies Chirurgl calcs, T. 2, p. 447, ct scq. Paris, 1816. Crci and Sand, in Haller's Disput. Chir. T. I E. Stanley, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8 ,* paper, containing many valuable observations Larrey, in Mem. dc Chir. Mil. T. 4, p. 203 <£"C. Henncn's Military Surgery, p. 311, $'( Ed. 2. A. Solomons, Dc Cerebri Tumoribul Edinb. 1810. J. L. Schocnlcin, Von da Hirnmctamorphosc, 8vo. TViirzb. 1816. HERNIA HUMORALIS. {Swelled inf amed. Testicle.) A very common symptom attending a gonorrhoea, is a swelling of tlf testicle, which is only sympathetic, and not v« nereal, because the same symptoms follow evel kind of irritation of the urethra, whether Prf duced by strictures, injections, or bougies. Su symptoms are not similar to the actions arisir from the application of venereal matter ; for, su puration seldom occurs, and when it docs,