104 AMPUTATION. moval of the other parts, no regular flaps could be made for covering the wound. (0/t Gunshot Wounds, p. 382.) In winter campaigns, the toes, and more or less, of the foot, are often attacked with mortiiication from cold. In this circum- stance, when the disorder does not extend be- yond the middle of the foot, or the toes, it is only necessary to cut away the gangrenous part. On the first entrance of the French army into Holland after the revolution, Paroisse met with many of these cases, in which it was necessary merely to take away the metatarsal bones, or sometimes those of the tarsus. All the patients, operated upon in this manner for the effects of cold, were cured; walking after- wards with more or less difficulty, according as the portion of the foot taken away had been greater, or smaller. (Opuscules tie Ct.ir. p. 213.) M. Roux, in his late publication, finds fault with our ignorance of Chopart’s method of re- moving a part of the foot. Fie says, “ I am certain, the principal surgeons in England have never practised, and are even totally unacquaint- ed with the amputation of the foot at the junc- tion of the two halves of the tarsus, or Chopart’s operation.’’ (Voyagefait a Londres en 1814, on Furallele de la Chdurgie Angloise avec la Chirur- gie Frtm^nise, p. 338.) As it is an operation of considerable merit, I think it mil be useful to in- troduce a description of it in the present work. It is performed in the nearly parallel articula- tions of the os calcis with the os cuboides, and of the astragalus with the os naviculare. Thus the heel is preserved, on which the patient can after- wards walk. The performance of it is simple. The tourniquet having been applied, the surgeon is to make a transverse incision through the skin, which covers the instep, two inches from the ankle joint. He is to divide the skin, and the extensor tendons, and muscles, in that situation, so as to expose the convexity of the tarsus. He is next to make on each side a small longi- tudinal incision, which is to begin below and a little in front of the malleolus, and is to t nd at one of the extremities of the first incision. After having formed in this way a flap of integu- ments, he is to let it be drawn upward by the assistant who holds the leg. There is no occa- sion to dissect and reflect the flap; for the cel- lular substance connecting the skin with the sub- jacent aponeurosis is so loose, that it can easily be drawn up above the place, where the joint of the calcaneum with the cuboides, and of that between the astragalus and scaphoides, ought to be opened. The surgeon will penetrate the last the most easily, particularly by taking for his guidance, the eminence, which indicates the at- tachment of the tibialis anticus muscle to the in- side of the os naviculare. The joint of the os cuboides and os calcis lies pretty nearly in the same transverse line, but rather obliquely for- ward. The ligaments having been cut, the foot falls back. The bistoury is then to be put down, and the straight knife used, with which a flap of the soft parts is to be formed under the tarsus and metatarsus, long enough to admit of being applied to the naked bones so as entirely to cover them. It is to be maintained in this posi- tion with three or four strips of adhesive plaster, which are to extend from the heel, o\ or the flap, to the inferior and anterior part of the leg. Chopart used to tie every artery as soon as it ivas divided. On the instep, the continuation of the anterior tibial artery will require a ligature; and, in the sole, the internal and external plan- tar arteries, in the thickness of the flap of soft parts, must generally be taken up. One half of each ligature is to be cut away, and the other one is to be left hanging out between the plasters, at the nearest and most convenient point. Walther and Graefe have given some very precise directions for the performance of this operation. A cut is first made, beginning half an inch below the outer ankle, and extending forwards along the side of the foot two inches. Another similar incision is then made from one inch below the inner ankle. The foot is now to be bent upwards, and the two first cuts united by a transverse incision, two finger-breadths from the front of the tibia. A flap is then dissected up, as far back as the commencement of the lateral incisions, or a line corresponding to the articulation of the astragalus with the os navi- culare, and of the os calcis with the os cuboides. An assistant now checks the bleeding by apply- ing the points of his fingers on the mouths of such vessels as bleed profusely, and holds up the flap. The extremity of the foot is now to be firmly inclined downwards, so as to stretch the ligaments connecting the tarsal bones together. The ligaments between the astragalus and os naviculare are to be first cut, when the foot may be twisted somewhat outwards, and the ligaments between the os calcis and os cuboides divided. The division is lastly completed by cutting through the soft parts regularly from above downwards, with the precaution of directing the amputating knife so as to leave a flap composed of part of the sole of the foot. (See Abhandl. aus dem Gcbiece der Pract. Med. djc. Lamlshnt, 1810, B. 1, p. 152, 3)' Graefe Normen fur dieAlil. grosseter Gliedm. p. 142.) Sometimes, in consequence of the soft parts of the instep being all gangrenous or otherwise destroyed, it is necessary to make the flap en- tirely from the sole of the foot, as Klein was obliged to do in one of his cases. (Practische Ansichten bedeutendsten Chir. Opcrationen. H. 1, p. 28.) Indeed, Richerand thinks this mode gene- rally advantageous, as the line of the cicatrix is not placed at the lower end of the stump, where it would be most exposed to injur}’. ( Nosogr. Chir. T. 2, p. 502, 6fc. Ed. 4.) Langcnbeck and Klein also condemn the painful and unneces- sary measure of dissecting up a flap from the instep, as advised bv Walther and Graefe. Cho- part himself, as we have seen, merely drew back the integuments of the instep, without making any detachment of them from the subjacent parts. When the ends of the flexor tendons of the toes project too much from the inner surface of the lower flap, they are to be cut shorter, as Klein particularly directs; and I consider his advice not to use sutures for keeping the flap applied, but merely strips of sticking plaster, perfectly judicious. (Op. cit. p. 33-34.) The following sources of instruction, on the subject of amputation, are particularly entitled to notice : Celsus de lie Medird. Octurcs de Pa id, Lv.rc 12, chap. 30, 6)33. James Yonge, Curt us Triumphalis e Terebintho, 8vc. Loud. 1679. li. Wiseman, Chir. Trculises, 4to. Loud. 1692.