1212 WOUNDS. back again, it is the reaction of the abdominal muscles, that forces them back and follows them ; there is never an instant of interruption of this pressure, never a moment, in which the bowels do not press against the peritoneum; nor is there the smallest reason to doubt, that the same points in each are continually opposed. We see, that the intestines do not move, or, at least, do not need to move in performing their functions; for, in hernia, where large turns of intestines are cut off by gangrene, the remaining part of the same intestines is closely fixed to the groin, and yet the bowels are easy, and their functions regular. We find the bowels regular, when they lie out of the belly, in hernia, as when a certain turn of intestine lies in the scrotum, or thigh, or, in a hernia of the navel; and where yet they are so absolutely fixed, that the piece of intestine is marked by the straitness of the rings. We find a person, after a wound of the intestine, having free stools for many days ; and what is it, that prevents the feces from escaping, but merely this regular and universal pressure? We find a per- son, on the fourth or fifth day, with feces coming lrom the wound! a proof, surely, that the wound of the intestine is still opposite, or nearly oppo- site, to the external wound. We find the same patient recovering without one bad sign ! What better proof than this could we desire, that none of the feces have exuded into the abdomen? “ If in a wound of the stomach, the food could get easily out by that wound, the stomach would unload itself that way, there would be no vomiting, the patient must die; but, so regular and continual is this pressure, that the instant a man is wounded in the stomach, he vomits, he continues vomiting for many days, while not one particle escapes into the cavity of the abdo- men. The outward wound is commonly opposite to that of the stomach, and, by that passage, some part of the food comes out; but when any accident removes the inward wound of the stomach from the outward wound, the abdominal muscles press upon the stomach, and follow it so closely, that if there be not a mere laceration extremely wide, this pressure closes the hole, keeps the food in, enables the patient to vomit, and not a par- ticle, even of jellies, or soups, is ever lost, or goes out into the cavity of the belly. “ How (proceeds Mr. J. Bell) without this universal and continual pressure, could the viscera be supported ? Could its ligaments, as we call them, support the weight of the liver? Or, what could support the weight of the stomach when filled? Could the mesentery, or omentum, support the intestines ; or could its own liga- ments, as we still name them, support the womb? How, without this uniform pressure, could these viscera fail to give way and burst? How could the circulation of the abdomen, go on? How could the liver and spleen, so turgid as they are with blood, fail to burst? Or what possibly could support the loose veins and arteries of the .abdo- men, since many of them, c. g. the splenic vein, is (are) two feet in length, is (are) of the dia- meter of the thumb, and has (have) no other, than the common pellucid and delicate coats of the veins? How could the viscera of the abdo- men bear shocks and falls, if not supported by imivpi'Ml nrpsstire of surrounding parts ? In any blow upon the belly, or by any sudden strain, explains to us how perfectly full the abdomen is, and how ill it is able to bear any pressure, even from its own muscles, without some point yield- ing, and some one of its bowels being thrown out. And the sickness and faintness, which im- mediately follow the drawing off of the waters of a dropsy, explain to us, what are the conse- quences of such pressure being even for a mo- ment relaxed. But, perhaps, one of the strongest proofs is this, that the principle must be acknow- ledged, in order to explain what happens daily in wounds; for, though in theory we should be inclined to make this distinction, that the hernia, or abscess of the intestines, will adhere and be safe, but, that wounded intestines, not having time to adhere, will become flaccid, as we see them do in dissections, and so, falling away from the external wound, will pour out their feces into the abdomen, and prove fatal; though we should settle this, as a fair and good distinction in theory, we find, that it will never answer in practice. Soldiers recover daily from the most desperate wounds; and the most likely reasons, that we can assign for it, are the fulness of the abdomen, the universal, equable, and gentle pressure; and the active disposition of the peritoneum, ready to inflame with the slightest touch. The wounded intestine is, by the universal pressure, kept close to the external wound, and the peritoneum and the intestine are equally inclined to adhere. In a few hours, that adhesion is begun, which is to save the patient’s life, and the lips of the wounded intestine are glued to the lips of the external wound. Thus, is the side of the intestine united to the inner surface of the abdomen; and, though the gut casts out its feces, while the wound is open ; though it often casts them out more freely, while the first inflammation lasts; yet, the feces resume their regular course, whenever the wound is disposed to close.” (John Bell’s Discourses on Wounds, p. 323, 327. Edit. 3.) The foregoing extract, though drawn up in a careless style, contains such observations as are well calculated to make the reader understand, that the abdomen is in reality not a cavity, but a compact mass of containing and contained parts; that the close manner, in which the various sur- faces are constantly in contact, most powerfully oppose extravasations; and that, in fact, it often entirely prevents them. The passage cited im- presses us with the utility of that quick pro- pensity to the adhesive inflammation, which pre- vails throughout every peritoneal surface, and which not only often has the effect of permanently hindering effusion of the contents of the viscera, by agglutinating the parts together, but which, even when an extravasation has happened, be- neficially confines the effused blood in one mass, and surrounds it with such adhesions of the parts to each other, as are rapid in their formation, and effectual for the purposes of limiting the extent of the effusion, and preventing the irritation of the extravasated matter from affecting the rest of the abdomen It is to Petit that surgeons are indebted for more correct modes of thinking upon the fore- going subject, and it is with great pleasure, that I here refer to his valuable observations. (See •. Mon. dc l'Acad, dc Chir.)