ECTROPIUM. 409 fhe lining of the eyelid, which never fails to in- crease, at last brings on a complete eversion of the part. In these cases, the cure may be ac- complished with such success, as is surprising to the inexperienced; for, after the fungous swell- ing of the internal membrane of the eyelid has been cut off', and the edge of the part approxi- mated to the eyeball, the shortening of the eye- lid, remaining after the operation, is so trivial, that it may be considered as nothing, in compa- rison with the deformity and inconvenience oc- casioned by the ectropium. Whenever, there- fore, the retraction of the skin of the everted eyelid, and the consequent shortness of it, are such, as not to prevent its rising again and cover- [ ing the eye, if not entirely, at least moderately, the surgeon should cut away the internal mem- brane of the everted eyelid, as already explained, 1 so as to produce a loss of substance on the in- | side of the everted eyelid. This may be done | most conveniently, either with the convex-edged * curved scissars, or small convex-edged bistoury, i In inveterate cases of ectropium, in which the tumid lining of the eyelids has become hard and callous, it is best to apply to the everted eyelid, for a few days before the operation, a soft bread and milk poultice, in order to render the part flexible, and more easily separated, than it could t be in its former rigid state. The division of the cicatrices, which have given t rise to the shortening and eversion of the eyelid, ! as Scarpa observes, does not procure any per- manent elongation of this part, and consequently i it is of no avail in the cure of the present dis- | ease. We seethe same circumstance occur after j deep and extensive burns of the skin of the palm of the hand and fingers: whatever pains may I have been taken, during the treatment, to keep j the hand and fingers extended, no sooner is the cicatrization thus completed, than the fingers be- I come irremediably bent. The same thing hap- | pens after extensive burns of the skin of the face and neck. Fabricius ab Aquapendente, who well knew the inutility of making a semilunar cut in the skin of the eyelids, for the purpose of remedying their shortening and eversion, pro- | poses, as the best expedient, to stretch them with I adhesive plasters, applied to them and the eye- i t brow, and tied closely together. Whatever ad- ' vantage may result from this practice, the same ; | degree of benefit may be derived from using, for •f • a few days, a bread and milk poultice, afterwards |i oily embrocations, and, lastly, the uniting ban- ‘ dage, so put on as to stretch the shortened eye- lid in an opposite direction to that produced by ’■ the cicatrix; a practice which Scarpa thinks ' should always be carefully tried, before resorting to the operation. The patient being seated, if an adult, or placed on a table with his head a little elevated, and held hy proper assistants, if a child, the surgeon, with a small convex-edged bistoury, is to make an incision of sufficient depth into the internal mem- | brane of the eyelid, along the tarsus, carefully I vyoiding the situation of the puneta lachrymalia. Then he should raise with a pair of forceps, the aP of the divided fungous membrane, and con- tinue to detach it, with the bistoury, from the 9U Parts, all over the inner surface of the *3(®hd> as far as where the membrane quits this part, to be reflected over the front of the eye, under the name of conjunctiva. The separation being thus far accomplished, the membrane is to be raised still more with the forceps, and cut off with one, or two strokes of the scissars, at the lowest part of the eyelid. The compresses and bandage, to keep the eyelid replaced, are to be ap- plied, as above directed. On changing the dress- ings, a day, or two, after the operation, the eye- lid will be found, in a great measure, replaced, and the disfigurement, which the disease caused, greatly amended. The operation is rarelyfollowed by bad symptoms, such as vomiting, violent pain, and inflammation. However, should they oc- cur, the vomiting may be relieved by means of an opiate clyster, and, as for the pain and inflam- mation, attended with great tumefaction of the eyelid operated upon, these complaints may be cured by applying a poultice, or bags filled with emollient herbs, at the same time employing in- ternal antiphlogistics, until the inflammation and swelling have subsided, and suppuration has commenced on the inside of the eyelid, on which the operation has been done. After this, the treatment is to consist in washing the part, twice a day, with barley-water and mel rosae, and, lastly, in touching the wound a few times with the argentum nitratum, in order to keep the granulations within certain limits, and to form a permanent cicatrix, proper for maintaining the eyelid replaced. (Scarpnsulle Mulattiedegli Occhi.) In cases, in which the eversion is considerable, Sir W. Adams has never found the simple inci- sion of the fungus, as practised by Scarpa, suffi- cient to effect a radical cure, and he therefore tried a new mode of operating. In his first at- tempts, he employed a very small curved bis- toury, the point of which he carried along the inside of the eyelid, at its outer angle, downwards and outwards, as far as the point of reflection of the conjunctiva would admit. He then pushed it through the whole substance of the everted eyelid and its integuments, and cut upwards through the tarsus, making an incision nearly half an inch in length. With a curved pair of scissars, he next snipped off a piece of the edge of the tarsus, about one third of an inch in width, and he afterwards removed with the same instrument the whole of the diseased conjunctiva. When the bleeding had ceased, Sir W. Adams passed a needle and ligature through the whole substance of the two divided portions, and brought them as accurately into contact as possible. Finding, however, that too much integument had been left at the lower part of the incision, he employed, in future operations, instead of the scalpel, a pair of straight scissars, with which he cut out an angular piece of the lid, resembling the letter V. Latterly, Sir W. Adams has found it advantageous to leave about a quarter of an inch of the lid adjoining its external angle, and after shortening the part as much as necessary, he brings the edges of the incision together with a suture. Practical Observations on the hetro- pium, <$r. bp W. Adams, p. 4 and 5, Loud. 1812.) On the subject of the foregoing proposal M. Roux observes; “What Sir W. Adams says, with a view of enhancing the value of his own me- thod, about the frequent recurrence of ectropium, when the conjunctiva is simply cut out, is a gta-