852 NITRIC AND NITROUS ACIDS . by Albers, giving the history of a venereal ulcer on the breast, successfully treated by the nitric acid. The reports of Dr. Prioleau, who tried the nitric acid in the autumn of 1797, are particu- larly favourable to the practice. “ Wc have seen (says he) every stage and form cf syphilis cured by this medicine, and even in habits broken down by the antecedent use of mercury, under which the disorder had gained ground. The pa- tients recovered their health and strength in a short time, without the use of diet-drinks, bark, or any other tonic medicine whatever.’’ (See Caldwell's Medical Theses, p. 1 OS, dvo. Phi- ladelphia, 1805.) The praise of the nitric acid from numerous quarters induced Dr. Rollo to try it in the mi- litary hospital at Woolwich, and in conjunction with Mr. Cruikshank to examine further into the antisyphilitic virtues of oxygenated substances. The results of Mr. Cruikshank’s investigations constitute the second part of Rollo’s work on diabetes, published in 1797. The medicines, which were selected for the experiments, were the nitric, citric, and muriatic acids, and oxyge- nated muriate of potash. Of these, the nitric acid and the oxygenated muriate of potash, were found to possess the greatest efficacy ; the first acting in many cases with remarkable mild- ness ; the second, with greater expedition and certainty. The new plan was tried upon young persons, affected with primary venereal com- plaints, who had never used mercury, and no other internal medicine was given except opium when required for diarrhoea, or colic. The li- quor plumbi acetatis dilutes was used as a wash for chancres. In debilitated subjects, sure and speedy good effects were observed uniformly to follow, and hence, previously to giving the acid to strong, plethoric patients, the method of pre- paring them for this treatment bv purging and bleeding was adopted, as is alleged,-with great success. In some cases, after the nitric acid had been continued a good while without pro- ducing a 'salivation, the exhibition of mercury for a short time completed the cure. Mr. Cruikshank’s opinion in favor of the new reme- dies was on the whole extremely sanguine, as he ventures to express his conviction, that they would render the employment of mercury in the cure of the venereal disease unnecessary. (See An Account of two Cases of Diabetes Mellitus, with Remarks* $*e., by John Rollo, M.D. Vol. 2, 8vo. Loud. 1797.) In the same year, Dr. Beddoes published a valuable work, comprising all the information, which had then transpired respecting the anti- syphilitic virtues of the nitric acid, with addi- tional communications from his medical friends. (See Reports principally concerning the Effects of Nitrous Acid in the Venereal Disease, by Thom. Beddoes, Bristol, 1797.) And two years afterwards, the same author finished a still more comprehensive volume on the subject. (A Collection of Testimonies, respecting the Treatment of the Venereal Disease by Nitrous Acid. Land. 1799.) From the preceding work, we learn, that, in the Plymouth hospital, Mr. Hammick gave the nitric acid to between sixty and seventy venereal patients, and thatlhe cures were generally more speedily accomplished, than with mercury, no ill effects being produced on the system, similar to those usually remaining after the use of the! latter mineral. He assures us, that, after the re- moval of the symptoms, the disease never re- turned, and that for debilitated, scorbutic, or scrophulous patients, affected with venereal com- plaints, the acid was found a most valuablet] means of relief. Dr. Geach of the same hospital is also stated*! to have employed the nitric acid with such effeeDl j that he rarely had occasion for mercury, thelividli | colour of the countenance, sordid fetid exco-SJs riations of the scrotum, and other symptoms,,]; which had long resisted the latter mineral, alllj quickly giving way to the new medicine. An-1’ other practitioner of the name of Giedlestone^f c however, had not equal success in his exper!-*** ments, for, in several cases, the acid did not! bring about a cure, and, after being continued* eight or ten days, and inducing a salivation, itiu even rendered the condition of some patients* f worse. On the other hand, Mr. Sandford, at! 1 surgeon at Worcester, found the acid a veryr j useful and effectual medicine in venereal cases* 3 where mercurials had been long exhibited in« : vain. The trials of the nitric acid, made by|j Professor Rutherford at Edinburgh, had various! results ; the medicine sometimes proving com— i; pletely ineffectual; and, in other instances, ap- pearing to be a perfect antidote for the worst* *• syphilitic complaints. Dr. Beddoes concludes with some observa- jr tions, in answer to Mr. Blair, who had become*), averse to the new practice. In 179S, Dr. Ferriar published some remark^** on the nitrous acid. (See Medical TIistoriesnj and Reflections, Vol. 3, p. 290—310.) Ha tried this medicine in various ways, either alone* j: or after, or in conjunction with, the exhibition* i of mercury. Hrs inferences are, that, in tha treatment of the venereal disease, the nitrous acid is useful only in protracted cases. Pie corro- borates, however, the generally received opinion- t that, where the patient has been considerably re- duced by the long, or injudicious employment i of mercury, the nitrous acid is a most beneficia. 1 medicine. In the same year, Mr. Blair wrote some ol»| | servations on the venereal disease, and the new | method of treating it. (Essays on the VenereaI Disease, and its concomitant Affections, Loud 1 1798.) In this work, the new remedies are ge-jf» nerally condemned, as ineffectual, and hencil* j> originated a paper-war between this writer and Dr. Beddoes, “ literarium certamen, non sin«! bile gestum,” as Dr. Holst has expressed it* t (Dc Acidi Niirici TJsu Medico, p. 73, j Christiana?, I816‘.) In this controversy, nu- j met ous other practitioners readily joined, as fon > instance, Macartney, Rowley, Philips, Hooper* Lidderdale, &c., all of whom adduced cases, ir< ; proof of the frequent inefficacy of nitrous aciiU and these were collected and published by Mr] Blair, who suspecting the eases of failure wiirt this medicine to be more numerous, than tbosef of success, considers himself unjustified in re4 garding it as an antisyphilitic to be depended upon. At the same time, he bears testimony 14 the virtues of the acids, exhibited in venereal cases either singly, or alternately with mercury-!’