WOUNDS. I 185 occasioned by the accident. This consequence demands the utmost attention on the part of the surgeon, who must let no useful means be neg- lected, with a view of diminishing the inflam- mation, before it has attained too high a degree, md very dangerous symptoms have commenced, in the first instance, he should not be afraid of •etting the wound, bleed a little, if it should be disposed to do so. The edges of the wound should then be gently drawn towards each other, with a few strips of sticking-plaster, so as to essen the extent of the exposed surface : but, no i :utures are proper. Indeed, the plan of diminish- ng the exposed surface of a contused wound with ■: trips of adhesive plaster is not invariably right; oecause their application creates a hurtful degree >f irritation. The method is chiefly advisable, vhen there is a large loose flap of skin, which :an be conveniently brought over the wound. Un other cases, it is best to leave the parts ree, uncompressed, and unconfined with any idhesive plaster, because, if it were applied, its - rritation would do harm, and could not possibly irocure any union of the parts. Under the nost favourable circumstances, hardly any part :,f the wound can be expected to unite by the irst intention: the whole or the greater part ::.f it will necessarily suppurate, after the detach- ment of the sloughs. The surface will then :;ranulate, new skin will be formed, and the part . eal just like a common wound. Perhaps, until hae sloughs separate, the best application is a soft oultice, which should be put on cold, lest it . ring on too great an oozing of blood. Nothing, indeed, is so proper for checking any jndency to hemorrhage as cold applications, 'hicli are also the most effectual in preventing nd diminishing the great degree of inflamma- |i on, which is one of the most dangerous conse- uences of this description of wounds. No surgical writer, I think, has given more 3 itional advice, respecting contused wounds, lan that published by Professor Assalini. In * eneral, says he, the treatment of contused ounds, whether they be simple and slight, or omplicated and severe, requires the active em- loyment of debilitating means in order to pre- ent inflammation. Cold water, and ice; and eneral and topical bleeding; are the things sually resorted to with success. Vulnerary >tions, camphorated spirit, and other spirituous p jplications, are improper, and if their pernicious Ifiects are not always very evident, it is only eecause the contused injuries have been trifling, nod in their nature perfectly easy of cure. In uese cases, as well as in those of extravasations md glandular swellings, Assalini gives a pre- sence to cold applications. The internal remo- ves and regimen, (says he) should also be adapted i the condition of the patient. A cannon-ball, I the end of its course, may come into contact dth a limb, and fracture the bones, while the nteguments have the appearance of being un- fjured. Such cases are often attended with readful mischief in the soft parts around the mne, which generally sphacelate. This is an xident for which immediate amputation is mstly indispensable (see Gun-shot--comuh) ; it if any tiling be capable of preventing iu- immation and gangrene, it is an active de- litating plan of treatment, assisted with cold applications to the injured part. In such cases, the internal and external use of stimulants is approved of by many surgeons. But, Assalini pre- fers considering the state of the injured limb, just like what it is when affected with frost; and he thinks that the employment of stimulants will necessarily produce the same effect as caloric prematurely applied to parts deadened with cold. On the contrary, from the outward employment of ice and cold lotions in these cases, and in contused injuries in general, he has seen the greatest benefit derived. Assalini conceives, that reason will be found to support this practice. The operation of cold, he says, retards the course of the blood, which meeting with only damaged vessels, augments the extravasation as it continues to flow. By lessening the temperature of the part, cold ap- plications likewise diminish the danger of in- flammation and sphacelus, at the same time that they have the good effect of rendering the sup- puration, which must ensue, less profuse, than it would be, were not the extravasation 'of blood, and violence of the inflammation, lessened by such applications, and a lowering plan of treatment. Why, says Assalini, should not this method, which is so generally adopted to prevent the effects of concussion of the brain after blows on the head, be for analogous reasons employed in examples of extravasation and commotion in other parts of the body? (Manuale de Chirur- gia, Parte Prima, p. 17.) Cold applications, however, in cases of contused wounds, are chiefly to be preferred, for the first day or two, in order to check the increase of extravasation and in- flammation. After this period, I give a decided preference to an emollient linseed poultice, which will be found the most easy dressing during those processes, bv which the sloughs are de- tached, the surface of the wound cleansed, and the origin of granulations established. When these changes have happened, the remaining sore is to be treated on the same principles as ulcers in general. See Ulcer. Punctured Wounds.—A punctured wound signifies one, made with a narrow-pointed in- strument, the external orifice of the injury being small and contracted, instead of being of a size proportionate to its depth. A wound, produced by a thrust of a sword, or bayonet, affords us an example of a punctured wound. Wounds of this description are in general in- finitely more dangerous than cuts, notwithstand- ing the latter have the appearance of being by far the most extensive. In cases of stabs, the greatest degree of danger always depends on the injury, and rough violence which the fibres have suffered, in addition to their mere division. Many of the disagreeable consequences are also to be imputed to the considerable depth, to which these wounds extend, whereby important parts and organs are frequently injured. Sometimes the treatment is rendered perplexing, by thedifficulty of removing extraneous substances, as for in- stance a piece of the weapon, which has been left in the wound. Lastly, experience proves, that punctured wounds and stabs are particularly liable to be followed by a great deni of inflam- mation, fever, deep-seated abscesses, sinuses, Ac. A strange notion seems to pervade the writings of many systematic authors, that all the danger d G