Joann vol, 1. p. 180. 8tv. Lond, 1816.) aladics du .Sinus Maiilluire, in (Envrcs Chirur- ANT mercury, by which her complaints had been in- creased. All her teeth on the affected side had been drawn. At length, it was determined to open the antrum with a large trocar, though there were no symptoms of an abscess, nor of any other disease in this cavity. For four days, no benefit resulted from this operation. During this space, bark injections, and the elixir of aloes, were introduced into the sinus. On the fifth day, a dead insect was extracted, by means of a pair of forceps, from the mouth of the cavity. It was more than an inch long, and thicker than a common quill. The patient now experienced relief for several hours : but the pains afterwards recurred with as much severity as before; oil was next injected into the antrum, and two other insects, similar to the former, were extracted. No others appeared, and the wound closed. The pains were not completely removed, but they were considerably diminished for several months, at the end of which time they became worse than ever, particularly affecting the situation of the frontal sinus. Bordenave has published, in the twelfth and thirteenth volumes of the Mem. de l’Acad. de Chir. edit. l2mo. two excellent papers on the diseases of the antrum. In the thirteenth volume, he relates the history of a case, in which several small whitish worms, together with a piece of fetid fungus, were discharged from the antrum, after an opening had been made on account of an abscess of this cavity, attended with caries. (P. 381.) But, in this instance, the worms had probably been generated after the opening had been made in the cavity; for when they made their appearance, the opening had existed nine months. Deschamps refers to another case, in which M. Fortassin, his colleague at La Charite, found in the antrum of a soldier, whom he was dissecting, a worm of the ascaris lumbricus kind, which was four inches in length. (Traite des Mai. des Fosses Nazales, $c. p. 307.) Such an example is also recorded in one of the volumes of the Journ. de Med. Were a case of this de- scription to present itself in a living subject, it would be advisable to inject oil into the cavity of the antrum, and then endeavour to wash out the extraneous substances by throwing into the sinus warm water by means of a syringe. See Precis d’Observations sur Les Maladies du Sinus Maxil- l“ire, par M. Bordenave, in Mem• de t’Acad. Royale de C/iirut-gir, t. 12. edit, in 12mo. Also Suite d’Observations on the same Subject, by M. Bordenave, 1.13, of the said Work. L. H. Range, l)e Morhis Prcecipuis Sinunm Ossis Frontis cl Maxi lice Superior is, ffc. Rhitelii, 1750. Haller, Disp. Chir. 1. 205. L’Encyclopedic Mdthodique, I nrtie Chirurgicale, art. Anire MuxiUairc• Juur- dnin, in Mdm. de l'Acad, de Chir. t. 4. p. 357 ; also his I mile des Depots duns le Sinus Maiillairt, Ac. 12mo. Paris, 1760 ; his Traitd des Mai. de la: 1louche, t. 2 ; and Journ. de Mid. t. 21. ]>■ 57, et t. 27./). 52—157. This author, who, in 1765, suggested to the Royal Academy of Stir- guy the method of injecting Jluid into the antrum, through the natural opening, is said to have been anticipated in the practice by Allouel, who first tonight <f the plan in 1737, and tried it with suc- cess in 1739 ; See Boyer, Trait6 des Mai. Chir. I,r'.' ?'• Rimarqucs ct Observations sur les ANU 183 gicalcs de Desault par Bichat, t. 2. p. 156. De- sault s Parisian Chirurgical Journal, vol. 1. and 2. Medical Communications, vol. 1. Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med and Chir. Knowledge, vol. 2. Natural History of the Hu- man Teeth, by John Hunter, p. I7q, 175. e(lit. 3. Gooch’s Chirurgical Works, vol. 2. p. 61. and vol. 3. p. 161. edit. 1792. Callisen’s Si/stema Chirurgiee Hodiervce, f. 1. p.346, fyc. Dubois, in Bulletin de la Faculie de Midecine, N. 8. J. L. Deschamps Traite des Maladies des Fosses Nazales, et de leur Sinus, 8vn. Paris, 1801. P. V. Leinicher, De Sinn Maxillari, tjusdem Marbis, $c. Wurceb. 1809. C. A. Weinliohl, Ideen iiher die abnormal Melamorphosen der Highmorshohle, Leipz. 1810. C. A. Weinhnld, Von den Kranlc- heiten der Gesichtsknochen und ihrer Sehleimhaiite, der Ansrotlung eines grossen Polypen in der linken Oberkieferhnlile, dem Verhuten der Eiminkens der Crichthchenund Venerischen Nase, und der Einset- zung Kjlnstlicher Choanen, 4to. Halle, 1818. ANUS. The lower termination of the great intestine, named the rectum, is so called, and its office is to form an outlet for the feces. The anus is furnished with muscles, which are peculiar to it, viz. the sphincter, which keeps it habitually closed, and the levatores ani, which serve to draw it up into its natural situation, after the expulsion of the feces. Tt is also sur- rounded, as well as the whole of the neighbouring intestine, with muscular fibres, and a very loose sort of cellular substance. It is subject to various diseases, in which the aid of surgery is requisite: of these we shall next treat. IMPERFORATE ANUS. This complaint is sometimes met with, though not very often. As it is of the utmost conse- quence that this and other malformations should not remain long unknown, one of the earliest duties of an accoucheur, after delivery, should be an examination of all the natural outlets of new- born infants. Such an inspection sometimes evinces, that the place, in which the extremity of the rec- tum, or the anus, ought to he, is entirely, or partly, shut up by a membrane, or fleshy adhesion. In other instances, no vestige of the intestine can be found, as the skin re- tains its natural colour over the whole space between the parts of generation and the os coc- cygis, without being more elevated in one place than another. In these cases, the intestine some- times terminates in one or two culs-de-sac, about an inch upward from the ordinary situation of the anus. (See Bail lie’s Scries of Engravings, Four. 4. Tab. 5.) Sometimes, it does not descend lower than the upper part of the sacrum ; some- times it opens into the bladder, or vagina. Dr. Palmer dissected a case, where the colon, after reaching the vicinity of the left kidney, begun, as it descended, to form a sigmoid flexure; but, previously to its arrival at the concavity of the left ilium, made a sudden turn to the right; and crossing the psoas muscle, reached the projection of the sacrum, where it terminated, without at all entering the pelvis. With this malformation was combined an imperforate meatus urinarius, and some considerable deviations of the genital organs from their natural structure. (See Mvdico-Uiir,