256 CESAREAN OPERATION. it from protruding at the vulva, enveloped, as it was, in the uterus. Notwithstanding such assist- ance, the patient died, So fatal an event, says Sabatier, might have been prevented, by making the woman lie upon the side, opposite the deviation of the uterus, and employing pressure from above. If these pro- ceedings had failed in bringing the os tincae toward the centre of the pelvis, this opening might have been brought into such position, by means of the finger, in the interval of the pains, and kept so, until it were sufficiently dilated for the membranes to protrude. This is what was done by Baudeloque in one case, where the womb inclined forward and to the right. The os tincae was situated backward. The waters escaped, and the head advanced to- wards the bottom of the pelvis, included in a portion of the uterus. The whole of the sphe- rical tumor, which presented itself, could be felt with the finger ; but, no opening was distinguish- able ; and the swelling might also be seen, on separating the labia from each other, and open- ing the entrance of the vagina. It became ne- cessary to keep the patient continually in bed, and to have the finger incessantly introduced; but, she was not sufficiently docile to submit to such treatment. Fortunately, the unexpected appearance of two officers of justice, forty-eight hours after the commencement of the labour, had the effect of making her more manageable. It was time for her to become so ; for. the ute- rus had now become tense, red, and painful. The abdomen was also so tender, that it could scarcely bear the contact of the clothes. Febrile sym- ptoms had begun, and the ideas were beginning to be confused. Baudeloque made her lie down ; and he pressed, with one hand, on the abdomen, for the purpose of raising the uterus, while, with the other, he pushed the head a little way back, in order that he might reach the os tincae, which he now brought with his finger toward the centre of the pelvis, and kept therefor some time. The efforts of the patient being thus encouraged, she was delivered in about a quarter of an hour. The infant was of a thriving descrip- tion, and the case had a most favourable termi- nation. When the obliquity of the uterus is such, that the os tincae cannot be found, and the mother and foetus are both in danger of perishing, it is the duty of the practitioner to open the portion of the womb, that projects towards the vulva. Lau- verjat met with a case of this description in his practice. A woman, pregnant with her first child, suffered such extreme pain in her labour, that Lauverjat was solicitous to ascertain the real state of things. Fie was surprised to find the vulva completely occupied by a body, which even protruded externally, and yielded to the pressure of the lingers, except during the labour pains. In examining this tumor, he could only find at its circumference a cul-de-sac, half an inch deep, without any aperture, through which the child could pass' Other practitioners, who were con- sulted about this extraordinary case, were also anxious to learn what had happened. They found in the tumor a laceration, which only affected a part of the thickness of its parietes. This lace- ration was deemed the proper place for making an incision. The operation having been done, the finger was passed into the cavity, in which th4 child was contained. A large quantity of turbiij fluid was discharged. The child presented, ami passed through the opening, with a trivial laceration on the right side. Lauverjat, having passed his hand into the uterus, was unabl<j to find either the os tincae, or the cervix Nc particular indisposition ensued, arid the lochkj were discharged through the wound, whiclj gradually closed. In the course of two monthsjj | the os tincae and neck of the uterus, were irj|| their natural position again. (Lauverjat JVoiej vellc Methnde tie pratiquer COperation Cesar- ievne, Paris, ] 788-) When the case is a scirrhous induration of the cervix uteri, or a laceration of the parietes of this | viscus, at the place, where it projects into the va- \ gina, the vaginal Caesarean Operation is attendee | with no difficulty. It is performed with a blunt' pointed bistoury, the blade of which is wrap-11 ped round with lint, to within an inch of the point. The instrument is to be introduced, under the guidance of the index finger, into the j opening presented by the uterus, and the aper- ture is to be properly enlarged, from within out-1 wards, in various directions. But, when the scir-L hous hardness of the cervix presents no opening;! at all, or when the part of the uterus projecting;! in the vagina is entire, the incision should be-1 made from without inwards, with the same kind! of knife. Too much caution cannot be used in j introducing the instrument, in order that no in-1 jury may be done to the child, which lies directly beyond the substance, which is to be divided. No> general direction can here be offered, except that, of proceeding slowly, and of keeping the index;* finger extended along the back of the knife, so ] that it may be immediately known, when the* substance of the womb is cut through, into the cavity of which the finger ought to passi j as soon as the knife. If it should be necessary j to extend, or multiply the incisions, the cut- j ting instrument should be regulated in a simi- lar manner, with the same finger. The cervixjk uteri having been divided, the expulsion of the [I child is either to be left to nature, or to be pro-:! moted by the ordinary means. The operation iji that has been described, requires no dressings. If* ^ the bleeding should prove troublesome, we are* recommended to apply to the incision a dossil off lint, wet with vinegar, or spirit of wine. (See? Sabatier's Mcdecine Operatcire, T. 1.) The chief’ object would here be to prevent adhesions between the cervix of the uterus and the upper part of the vagina. (Diction. des Sciences Med. T. 23, ]>• 298.) ABDOMINAL CAESAREAN Ol’ERATION. This is a far more serious operation, than that of which we have just now been treating, and it is the proceeding, to which the term Cmsarean Operation is more particularly ap- plied. There are three cases, in which this operation may be necessary. 1. When the foetus is alive, and the mother dead, cither in labour, or the last two months of pregnancy. 2. When the fietu* is dead, but cannot be delivered in the usual wav on account of the deformity of the mother, or the disproportionate size of tiic child. 3. W lien both i1 1