TETANUS. 1 ! _ _ » ...1,#, l.mtn n 1-1 nrorcmil in nillPf fluids, take second volumes of the Memoires de Ch humic TVIilituirc. b It appears also from Larrcy’s experience in kgypl. that poultices, made of the leaves of tobacco, and applied to the wounds of persons labouring under tetanus, are followed by no ad- vantageous ellect. I he alkolies also proved of no service. (Tom. 1, p. 257.) I shall conclude these remarks on, what may be called, the local treatment of tetanus with mentioning, that the celebrated Dr. Hush re- commended the wound to be dilated and dressed with oil of turpentine. (See Trans, of the American Philos. Society, Vol. 2); and that our naval surgeons often use tincture of opium as a dressing. A great degree of obscurity prevails, respect- ing the most eligible general or constitutional plans of treating tetanus, and, I am afraid, it must be confessed, that our internal remedies cannot be more depended upon, than the local means, already described. This opinion is fully confirmed by adverting to the discouraging fact, recorded by Sir James Macgrigor, viz. that out of several hundreds of cases, which occurred in the British army during the late campaigns in Spain and Portugal, there were very few, which terminated successfully, or in which the remedies, however varied, seemed to have any beneficial influence, after the disease had made any progress. (Medico- Chir. Trans. Vol. 0, p. 419.) The possibility of doing much good by internal medicines is also sometimes totally prevented by the inability of swallowing which atllicts the patient. In short, the present state of our knowledge, respecting tetanus, will not allow us to indulge much hopes of cure from any means yet discovered, except in the chronic form of the complaint, the instances of success in the treatment of acute tetanus being by no means numerous. Of all medicines, opium is that which has raised the greatest expectation, and been the most extensively tried in cases of tetanus. In- deed, there cannot be a doubt, that in many chro- nic, mild cases, it is competent to effect a cure. But, for this purpose, it is absolutely necessary, that its use be begun from the earliest appearance ot the symptoms ; that it be given in very large doses ; and that the doses be repeated at short intervals, so that the system be kept constantly under the inlluence of the remedy. It is, in- deed, astonishing ho\j the system, when labour- ing under a tetanic disease, will resist the ope- ration of this and other remedies, which, in its ordinary state, would have been more than suf- ficient to overpower and destroy it. Patients with tetanus will bear, with impunity, quantities of opium, which at any other time would have been certainly fatal. Instances arc upon record of five, ten, and even twenty grains, being taken every two or three hours, for many days, without any extraordinary narcotic effects being produced upon the sensorium. It is always advisable, however, to begin with comparatively moderate doses, such ns forty or sixty drops of the tinc- ture of opium, which may be repeated at inter- vals of three or four hours, and increased at each repetition, until some sensible effect is produced on the spasms. It seems requisite to augment every hour, and no time must be lost while there is yet a chance of controlling its fury. The approaching closure of the jaw, and difficulty of deglutition, which may increase so as to render it hardly possible to introduce medicines into the stomach, are additional motives for pushing our remedies before such obstacles arise. (Rees's Cyclopaedia, art. Tetanus.) I once supposed it might be possible to overcome this impedi- ment by introducing a flexible catheter down the oesophagus from one of the nostrils ; but the at. tempt to do this always brings on a violent pa- roxysm of spasms, attended with such a sense of suffocation that it cannot be endured. The ex- perience of my friend, the late Mr. Cruttwell, of Bath, and that of Baron Larrey, have fully proved, that no assistance can be derived, in these circumstances, from the use of any flexible tubes. (See Mem. dc Chir. Militairc, T. I, p. 247.) Sometimes, however, the obstacle to the admi- nistration of medicines, arising from the closure of the jaw, is prevented by loss of some of the incisor teeth, and, in a few instances, Baron Larrey adopted the plan of extracting two of them. This would be useless, however, when deglutition is totally hindered, as happened in one instance recorded by the latter eminent sur- geon. (Op. cit. T, 3, /?. 301.) Glysters are the only resource, when the spasm of the fauces cannot be overcome. In this way, as much as a dram of the extract of opium has been intro- duced into the bowels at one dose. Opiate fric- tions upon the jaws, throat, and other parts of the body, have been practised. Opiate plasters have also been applied to the masseter muscles, and behind the ears. This external use of opium, however, can only be regarded as a feeble, and probably useless method. As the costiveness, always produced by teta- nus, is rendered still more obstinate by opium, laxative medicines and glysters should constantly accompany' its employment. The testimony of the army physicians, as we learn from the report of Sir James Macgrigor, is highly in favour oi a rigid perseverance in the use of purgatives, given in adequate doses to produce daily a full effect. Dr. Forbes states, that a solution of sulphate of magnesia, in infusion of senna, was found to answer better than any other purgative; and it was daily given in a sufficient quantity to procure a copious evacuation, which was always dark-coloured and highly offensive; and to tbi practice he chiefly attributes, in one severe ca“ the removal of the disease. (Medico-Clou Trans. Vol. 6*, p. 452.) A spasmodic rigidity of the muscles being l1 most prominent symptom of tetanus, it was na- tural for practitioners to try the efficacy of so other anti-spasmodic medicines besides opium, and those which have been principally the subject of experiment, are castoreum, aether, the conitmr maeulatum, musk, camphor, and latterly the di- gitalis. In many cases, opium and camphor have been exhibited together. Indeed, Larrey asserts that, of all the medicines hitherto proposed by skilful practitioners, the extract of opium com- bined with camphor, and the nitrate of potassa. dissolved in a small quantity of the almond omul* sion, and given in doses, more or. ess strong, produces the most favourable effects, since P®'