RY. M3 SURGE or by making an esclipr with caustic. To the latter plan, however, many urge strong objec- tions: the use of caustic is not usually attended with any advantage which may not be obtained by a simple incision ; upon a tender inflamed part it gives much more pain; it is more slow in its effects; and the surgeon can never direct the operation of the caustic so accurately as to de- stroy exactly the parts which he wishes, and no more. It the eschar be not made deeply enough, the lancet must, after all, be used. Caustic also leaves, after its application, a disagreeable scar, a consideration of some importance in opening abscesses about the female neck or face. To these numerous objections we have to add, that the eschar is, very frequently, ten or twelve te- dious days in becoming detached. When there is a redundance of skin, or when there is a good deal of it thinned, however, an opening made with caustic will answer, perhaps, as well as an incision. The application of a caustic may also sometimes be advantageously resorted to when there is a good deal of indolent hardness around a small abscess. The calx cum potassa, or the potassa alone, is the best caustic for opening abscesses. The part is first to be covered with apiece of adhesive plaster, which has a portion cut out exactly of the same figure and size as the opening intended to be made in the abscess. The best way of making the eschar, is to dip the end of the cau- stic in water, and to rub it on the part till the skin becomes brown. The active substance is then to be immediately washed off with some wet tow, the plaster is to be removed, and an emollient poultice applied. In almost all cases, it is better to use the lan- cet, or double-edged bistoury. Either of these instruments opens the abscess at once, and with less pain, than results from the use of caustic; it occasions no loss of substance, consequently a smaller cicatrix ; and, by using it, the opening may be made in the most advantageous direction, and of the exact size required. DRESSINGS after opening abscesses. When an abscess has burst of itself, and it is unnecessary to enlarge the opening, the only thing requisite is to keep the surrounding parts clean. The continuation of the same kind of poultice, which was before used, is, perhaps, as good a practice as any; and when the tenderness, arising from the inflammation, is over, lint and a pledget may be made use of, instead of the poultice. But, an abscess, opened by a cutting instru- ment, is both a wound and a sore, and partakes more of the nature of a fresh wound in propor- tion to the thickness of the parts cut. Hence, it is necessary that something should be put into the opening to keep it from healing by the first intention. If it is lint, it should be dipped in some salve, which will answer better than lint alone, as it will allow of being taken out sooner. This is advantageous, because such sores should be dressed the next day, or, at latest, on the second day, in order that the pus may be dis- charged agaiu. When the cut edges of the onpnirur have suoouratcd, which will be in a If the abscess has been opened with caustic, and the slough has either been cut out or se- parated of itself, the case is to be regarded al- together as a suppurating sore, and dressed ac- j j, cordingly. Perhaps, dry lint is as good a dressing as any, I • till the nature of the sore is known. If it should |j i he of a good kind, the same dressing maybe | j continued; but, if not, then it must be dressed IL accordingly. Parts, which at first appear to be |i sound, sometimes assume every species of dis- j i ease, whether from indolence, from irritability, | t from scrophulous, and other dispositions. '1 his tendency to disease arises, in some cases, from the nature of the parts affected, as, for instance, j I bone, ligament, &c. {Hunter.) Consult particularly John Hunter's Trea- \ i tisc on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gunshot j i Wounds, a work, in which more interesting j j knowledge respecting Abscesses and Supputa- j , Cum is contained, than in any other ever pul- \ lished. See also Traite de la Suppuration cle F. Quesnay, 1749. J. Grashuis, A Biss, i on Suppuration, 8vo. Loud 17r>2. Various parts of the Memoires de VAcademic dc Chi- f rurgie. J. B. Boyer, Be Suppuratione et Cu- rationeInflammationisper Suppurationem ter- minandee. Monsp. 1766. L’ Emyclopi die J Methodiquc, Partic Chirurgicalc, ariicle Ab- j ces. Dissertations on Inflammation by John \ Burns, 1800. Sir E. Home's Dissertation on j the Properties of Pus, 1/88; and his Pract. J Obs. on Ulcers, ‘2d Edit. 1801. James Bendy, j Essay on Glandular Secretion, containing an j experimental Inquiry into theFor motion ofP us, J 4'e. 8fo. Loud. 1775. N. Romaync, Dc Paris 1 Generatione, 8no. Edinb. 1780. C. Darwin's j Experiments, establishing a criterion between j mucilaginous and purulent matter, <Jc. Litch- j field, 1780. P. Clare, Essay on Abscesses. Loud. . 1781. Several parts of Pott's Chirurgical I Works, but especially his Treatise on the I is- i tula in Auo. T. Brand, Strictures in Vindica- j (ion of some of the Doctrines misrepresented ly ; Mr. Foot in his two pamphlets, entitled “ Ob- servations upon the new opinions oj J. Hunter, in his treatise on the Venereal, including Mr. | Pott's Plagiarisms, and misinformation on I Pus,” 4'C. 4to. Loud. 1787. Richter, An- [ fansgsgriindc dcr Wundarzncyku nst, B 1, 'Kap. 2. Dr. J. Thomson's Lectures on In- ) flammation, p. 805, 4fC. Edinb. 1818; a work, ■ in which a profound knowledge of medical j science, and of surgery in particular, is every- j where conspicuous. J. F. Crevcaeur, De Dia- | guosi Putis; Longchamps, 1793. Pearsons j Principles of Surgery, p. 34. tjr. Edit. 2. j Lassus Pathologic Chirurgicalc, T. I, p, 21» j §c. cjjr. Edit, of 1809. Scb. J. Brugmam, f Dc Puogenia, sire inediis qutbus natura uiitui [ in creando pure. 8vo. Groninga', 1785 Dr. j G. Pearson's Obs. and Experiments on Putin the Philosophical Trans, for 1811. C.J ^L’ Langcnhcck, Von dcr Bchandhmg dcr I istfl- gunge, dcr Schusscanalc, und grosser Eitf absouderndcr Holden, in Neuc Bill, fur die Chirurgic, 12jno. Hannover, 1817* SURGERY, or CIIIRURGERY. (derived