ANEURISM. surface with “ polypous layers.” “ This, how- ever. was not the case In the instance, which I have brought forward. In it you have seen that the coats were much dilated, and also very much altered in their structure. Externally and in- ternally, they had assumed the look of the mem- branes of the foetus, only they were thicker and denser, but they were equally gelatinous and nearly as transparent; and, on their inner surface, they were crusted over with laminae of coagula- ting lymph. By peeling off’ this incrustation, after the sac had been inverted, we saw plainly, that although the internal coats were round the complete cylinder of the vessel much diseased, ami considerably dilated, yet they were not dilated in the same degree as the external coverings of the artery. At irregular distances, longitudinal rents were formed in the fibrous coats, and these chasms were filled with coagulating lymph. The internal coats, over the whole circumference of the vessel, had assumed the diseased condition, which in aneurism is generally confined to a part of the cylinder. In this tumour, all the coats continued for a time to dilate equally, but at length the internal gave way, forming longitu- dinal rents, through which the external coats could be seen, after the lymphatic coating had been scraped off. In this instance, had the sac been dissected in the early stage, it would have presented precisely the same appearances as those described by Dr. Monro, and the one (the aneu- rism) lately examined by the surgical editor of the London Med. Review.” Mr. Burns after- wards expresses doubts, whether the sac can ever acquire a large size without dilatation. The case, repoited in the latter periodical work, was the largest, that he knew of, in which all the coats were found uniformly dilated. The sac, which was as large as the fist, was lined throughout with flakes of bone, and though the internal coat of the vessel was thus patched, and extremely thin and brittle, it did not, on minute inspection, any where exhibit a solution of continuity. Mr. A. Burns further states, that the above case re- ported by himself, was the only one out of four- teen, which did not corroborate Scarpa’s descrip- tion. (On Diseases of the Hrurt, fc. p. 204.) Mr. Wilson, after mentioning the frequency of aneurism in the aorta, carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries, and its rarity in the brachial, tells us, that he knows of no example of aneurism below the elbow, where the swelling could not be traced to a wound of the coats of the artery. He adds, that true aneurism has not unfrequently oc- curred in the internal and external iliac arteries, in the inguinal, femoral, and very frequently in the popliteal. It has taken place in the posterior tibial artery, but be knows of no instance of it in the anterior tibial. or peroneal arteries. “ I have (says he,) met with only one instance of true aneurism affecting any of the branches of the aorta, which are distributed to the abdominal viscera. In the year 1809, bn inspecting the body of a clergyman, in the presence of the late Sir W. Farquhar, a tumour, very much resem- bling the heart in colour, shape, and size, appear- ed to hang down from the under surface of the left lobe of the liver. When this tumour was opened, and carefully inspected, it appeared to have been formed by the left branch of the hepa- tic artery having become very much enlarged and aneurismal. It had burst, and the blood, which had escaped, was found in an imperfect cyst, partly in a fluid, and partly in a coagulated state, forming a large proportion of the tumour.” This preparation is in Windmill Street. (See Lecture*■ on the Blood, and on llie Auatomi/, Physiology, and Surgical Pathology of the Vascular System, p. 379, 380, 8vo. Land. 1819.) The facts adduced by Mr. Hodgson appear sufficiently conclusive, arid from them the follow- ing doctrine is clearly deducible. First, That numerous aneurisms are formed by destruction of the internal and middle coats of an artery, and the expansion of the external coat into a small cyst, which giving way from distention, the surrounding parts, whatever may be their structure, form the remainder of the sac. Secondly, That sometimes the disease com- mences in the dilatation of a portion of the cir- cumference of an artery. This dilatation in- creases until the coats of the vessel give way, when the surrounding parts form the sac, in the same manner as when the disease is in the first instance produced by destruction of the coats of an artery. (P. 74.) The conclusions of Mr. Hodgson, as he him- self explains, are supported by the observations of numerous writers. The learned Sabatier says, there can be no doubt, that many aneurisms depend upon the dilatation of the arterial coats; but, continues!)?, when this happens, the cases present remarkable differences. Sometimes the three arterial tunics are dilated altogether. In other instances, only the two internal coats are affected with dilata- tion. While, in fur more numertus examples, the internal tunics are ruptured, and it is the cellular coat alone, which separates from them, and. enlarges, sons to form the avturismal sac ', “dc sorte que les artcres, qui sent dans ce cos, s< nt dilnriquees, suivant l’expression de Lancisi.” It is difficult to conceive, observes Sabatier, how all the coats of an artery can dilate and yield sufficiently to form the investment of such im- mense tumours as some aneurisms are. Indeed, that very tunic, which composes the greater part of the thickness of the vessel, and which is term- ed the muscular coat, is known to consist of fibres whose texture is firm, and little capable of bear- ing extension. However, Sabatier states, that there are some observations, which prove, that the muscular tunic may become dilated as well as the others. Haller, in describing a very large aneurism, situated in the aorta near the heart, re- lates, that the innermost coat of this vessel was ruptured and torn, the loose jagged edges of the laceration being visible in the aneurismal sac. These were squamous, bony, and of little thick- ness ; while the muscular and cellular coats were quite sound. Donald Monro noticed the same thing in five different aneurisms, which occurred in the course of the femoral and popliteal arteries of a man, who had been confined a long while to his bed, after submitting to the operation for bu- bonocele. Monro succeeded in tracing the fibres of the muscular coat over the swellings, so that he had no doubt of this tunic being dilated. Saba- tier thinks, that it is not to be inferred, that all such writers, as have related the histories of true aneurisms, proceeding from a dilatation of all the arterial coats, can have been mistaken, although