938 PRO may be given in the dose of one-tenth of a grain, thrice a day. (Pharm. Suncti Barthol. 1799.) Justamond strongly recommended the internal exhibition of arsenic in cases of cancer. (See Cancer.) POP ASS/E CARBONAS. Two drams of this medicine have been given, as a litlion- triptic, at St, Bartholomew’s hospital, in a pint of distilled water, twice a day. POTASSA FUSA. Caustic Potash. This is one of the most useful caustics for destroying fungi, making issues, in cases of diseased verte- brae, white swellings, &c.; and it is recom- mended to be used in a particular manner, by Mr. Whately, for the cure of strictures in the urethra. When surgeons prefer opening buboes, or any other abscesses, with caustic, the caustic potassa is very commonly employed. When sur- geons used to cure hydroceles, by destroying a part of the scrotum and tunica vaginalis with caustic, the potassa fusa, either alone, or mixed with quicklime, was made use of. (See Verte- bra, Urethra, Strictures of, <$-c.) POTASSAE SULPHURETUM. Sulphu- rct of Potash. L iver of Sulphur. Two drams, dissolved in a pint of lime or distilled water, make an excellent lotion for the cure of porrigo. Many other cutaneous affections yield also to the same remedy. When arsenic has been swallowed as a poison, twenty grains of the sul- phate of zinc may be given as an emetic of the quickest operation: and, after keeping up the vomiting by drinking warm water, and, what is better, sweet oil, some authors recommend making the patient drink as much as possible of a solution of the sulphuret of potash. PREGNANCY is set down by some writers as preventive of the union of broken bones; but many exceptions to the remark present them- selves in practice; for I have attended myself a female, six months gone with child, who broke both bones of her leg, yet they grew together again in the usual time. (See Fractures.) Pregnant women also frequently bear operations much better than might be expected. Thus M. Nicod has recently published a successful ampu- tation of the left leg during pregnancy, in a ease where the right tendo Achillis was also rup- tured. Both the wound, and the broken tendon, united very well. (See Annuairc Med. Chir. dcs Hopitaux de Paris, p. 509, 4to. Paris, 1819.; PROBANG. A long slender bit of whale- bone, with a bit of sponge at its extremity, in- tended for the examination of the oesophagus, or the removal of obstructions in it. PROCIDE'NTIA. Prolapsus. A falling •down of any part. (See Anus, Prolapsus of. Uterus, Prolapsus of, &c.) PROSTATE GLAND, DISEASES OF. It is an observation, made by Mr. Hunter, that the use of this gland is not sufficiently known to enable us to judge of the bad consequences of its •diseased state, abstracted from swelling. Its situation (says he) is such, that the bad effects of its being swelled must be evident, as it may be said to make a part of the canal of the urethra, and, therefore, when it is so diseased, that its shape and size are altered, it must obstruct the passage of the urine. (On the Venereal Dis- ease, a. 16‘9.) A swelling of the prostate gland, PRO however, may be of very different kinds: thus it may depend either upon common inflammation of the part, abscesses, calculi formed within its substance, a varicose enlargement of its vessels, or a scirrhous chronic induration. (See Qvuvrcs Chir. dc Desault par Bichat, T. :3, p. 220.) Modern anatomists describe the prostate gland as not being itself a very sensible part, and hence it is more subject to chronic than acute disease, to which, however, it is also liable. We have the authority of Desault, Hunter, and Dr. Baillie, for setting it down as subject to scro- phula. The latter physician, after staling tliat he has seen a common abscess situated in it, adds, that it is also subject to scrophulous dis- ease, as, on cutting into it, he has met with the same white curdy matter which is formed in a scrophulous absorbent gland; he has likewise forced out of its duct scrophulous pus. (iMor- bid Anatomy, <!fc.) Mr. Lloyd states, that he has also met with fleshy enlargements of the gland, in the sub- stance of which several small abscesses Were formed, containing “ a complete scrophulous matter.” He has also known enormous en- largements of this gland happen in j’oung men, who were labouring, at the same time, under other scrophulous disease. Other instances of supposed scrophulous swellings of the same part in young patients are likewise cited by this author, one of which is particularly remarkable, as in it the gland was found after death to be of the size of a child’s head, though its natural con- sistence was not much changed. (On the Ma- ture and Treatment of Scrophula, p. 107-) Other chronic, or, as they are more often called, scirrhous enlargements of the prostate gland, rarely occur in subjects under the age of fifty. To these cases I shall presently return. Like eveiyr other part of the body, the pro- state gland is sometimes, but not often, the seat of common phlegmonous inflammation. Mr. Wilson has known two or three instances of this kind take place soon after puberty; one case was from a fall; the others arose without any assignable cause. (On the Male Urinary and Genital Organs, p. 327.) There is also a phlegmonous swelling of the prostate gland, sometimes an effect of strictures, as will be pre- sently noticed. As Desault' observes, the re- tention of urine, arising from such a cause, comes on very suddenly, and rapidly increases. The patient at first complains of a sense of heat and weight about the perinaeum; and, soon afterwards, of a continual throbbing pain about the neck of the bladder. The pain is severely increased when the patient goes to stool; and there is tenesmus, and frequent inclination to make water. However, according^ to Mr. Wil- son, the desire to evacuate the urine is here less constant,(than in cases where the inner membrane of the bladder is inflamed. (Vol.cit.p. 327-) The patient feels, also, as if a large mass of ex- crement filled the extremity of the rectum, and were ready to come out. If a finger be intro- duced within the rectum, the swelling of the gland is plainly distinguishable ; and, according to J L. Petit, the projection of the prostate gland in the bowel makes a corresponding hol- low groove along the concave side of the excre- ment, as may be noticed, when what is voided is