882 OPHTHALMY. The second singe, however well treated, is followed for a long time by n peculiar sensibility ol the skin to the impression of cold damp air, and a strong propensity to relapses If, when the cuticle peels oft, u patient of weak con- stitution sit in a current of damp cold air, or try to wash away the scales and scabs with cold water, Beer states, that an cedematous affection of the eyelid will be produced, which is often very obstinate, and apt to occasion a temporary inversion of the cilice (Trichiasis), or a similar state of the edge of the eyelid (Entropium). And, he observes, that when from neglect, or bad treatment, an erysipelatous inflammation of the eyelid terminates in suppuration, the abscess is not like a common one, but the matter rapidly makes its way out through several openings in the already partially disorganized skin, and, in general, this state is followed by ill-conditioned tedious ulcerations, whereby a good deal of skin is always destroyed. Under these circumstances, all those consequences may be produced, which have been described as liable to take place from the second, or suppurative stage, of common in- flammation of the eyelid. Gangrene and slough- ing may even occur, when erysipelas of the eye- lids is brought on by the unremoved sting of an insect, and efficient treatment is delayed. The treatment, recommended by Beer in the first stage, consists in the application of cold water, and he remarks, that exposure of the part for a time to a cool, moist, but, in other respects, pure atmosphere, will often suffice for the re- moval of the complaint. When, however, the disorder increases, and assumes a phlegmonous char; cter, the direction;, given for the treatment of blepharophtlialmitis, arc to be followed. In the second stage of erysipelas of the eye- lids, Beer praises the good effects of a mild, dry air, of an equal temperature, and recommends covering the parts with a light bandage, under which are to be put well warmed linen com- presses, which, for weak persons, should be sprinkled with camphor; or he directs the eyelids to be covered with bags of aromatic herbs; gene- rally a very favourite plan with Beer, whenever he objects to moist applications. In such in- dividuals, he observes, that the cure is promoted by keeping up the function of the skin with gentle diaphoretic medicines, with which, when the debility is very great, camphor should be joined. Should an abscess form, the same treat- ment is proper as in the second stage of common inflammation of the eyelids, or (what Beer calls) blepharophtlialmitis. Glandular Inflammation of flic Eyelids, or the Blepharophtlialmitis Glundulosa, as Beer terms it, is considered by this author as the disease, of which all the various cases of purulent ophthalmy are only modifications, which he describes under the names of idiopathic catarrhal ophthalmy ; idiopathic catarrhal-rheumatic ophthalmy ; and hlepharo-Hcnnorrhcca, or ophthalmo-hlennor- rhcca. The two latter terms comprehend the puru- lent ophthalmy of infants, the Egyptian oph- thalmy, the gonorrhoeal ophthalmy, &c. Glandular inflammation of the eyelids, Beer knew very well was so far a defective term, that it seemed to imply merely an affection of the Meibomian and mucous glands of those parts, whereas lie means to express by this name the kind of inflammation, of which all the caseiLy usually called in this country purulent opht/un, , mies, are varieties and modifications, and in "liiJEL) the conjunctiva is also particularly affected. Acute suppurative inflammation of the com . junctiva, divisible into the mild and severe form* * f as proposod by Mr. Travers, appears, perhaps, U * bettername. (Synopsis,§e. p. 'JG, See.) Dr. VctcfC i who also prefers the general term conjunctivmkj inflammation, observes, that from many intern|Lfc and external causes, the membrane of the corji>^ junctiva is liable to become the seat of inffanimm j; tion, more especially that portion of it, whiejif gives a lining to the inner surface of the eyelid*-# The disease, in its general nature, he says, diffetlj little from that, which is met with in other parulf having a similar surface, as the nose, the fauce^M the bronchial cells, and the urethra; but, tluli. continuation of the membrane forward upon thtur anterior portion of the eye, and the consequent» liability of the inflammation to affect this imporlfcii ant organ, attach much interest to all the circum*La stances, capable of producing it. (Vetch our t Diseases of the Eye, p. 148.) In the common c glandular inflammation of the eyelids, describe*^ : by Beer, which seems to me to correspond to thjj > 1 more moderate forms of purulent ophthulnu h , met with in this country, either the whole, offc; only that part of their edges, which is near one* ! or both canthi, is affected with a very red, hardisbf ! sensible swelling, attended with a violent annoy* j ing degree of itching. This swelling, Beer obtari serves, does not extend far over the outside afeit the eyelid upwards, or downwards, at most, now* more than a few lines; but it spreads over th^la palpebral conjunctiva, especially when neglected! *4 or badly treated, and the constitution is weak®! This, he says, can only be discovered when tb«f 1 eyelid is everted. The further the swelling ex-m i tends over the inside of the eyelid, the more iflp the motion of the part obstructed, not on account i of any want of power in the orbicular muscleii but from the fear of the pain, with which evert® attempt to move the eyelid is accompanied. Tba < itching, which continually distresses the patienU i more or less, is often succeeded by an irritatingjl.3 burning kind of pain, which is particularly ex- J perienced when the eyelids are moved, and hencetp the patient is obliged, as it were, to keep his cya£? closed. While the inflammation is restricted ti|» the edges and conjunctiva of the eyelids, and th« Meibomian glands situated under it, though tbeuir secretion from these glands is entirely stopped, thaa t from the lachrymal gland is much augmented* 3 and consequently, the disease is associated with al's true epiphora, which is seriously aggravated when-jH ever the eye is exposed to a strong light. As,** under these circumstances, the tears are not pro4«; perly blended with the Meibomian secretion, they** must of course be very irritating to the eye andU its surrounding parts, and less fitted for property*'* lubricating its surface. Hence, the pain now be-» comes burning, and not unfrequently the cheek, in over which the tears run, is excoriated. As soon A as the inflammation of the eyelids spreads further, A and begins to affect the sclerotic conjunctiva, the A effusion of tears ceases, the eye becomes preter- A naturally dry, and the patient constantly thinks, j * that he feels sand under the eyelids, which sen- sation is rendered almost intolerable by anyf * motion of the eve, or eyelids. Children and J *