766 LITHOTOMY. and inflames ; its parietes become thickened and indurated; and its diameter is lessened. A viscid, more or less, tenacious matter is observed, in greater or lesser quantity, in the urine, and is precipitated to the bottom of the vessel. The urine becomes black and putrid, and exhales an intolerable alkalescent smell, which is perceived at the very moment of the evacuation, and is much stronger a little while afterwards. The patient can no longer use any exercise, without all his complaints being redoubled. Whenever be walks in the least, the urine becomes bloody; the pain about the hypochondria, which was dull in the beginning, grows more and more acute; the ureters and kidneys participate in the irri- tation with the bladder; they inflame and sup- purate, and very soon the urine brings away with it purulent matter. The fever increases, and changes into one of a slow type; the patient loses his sleep and appetite; becomes emaciated; and exhausted; and death at length puts a pe- riod to his misery. (See Traite Historique ct Dogmatique dc l' Operation de la Tattle par J. F.L. Dcschamps, T. 1, p. 163, Paris, 1796.) It is acknowledged by the most experienced surgeons, that the symptoms of a stone in the bladder are exceedingly equivocal, and may be produced by several other disorders. “ Pain in making water, and not being able to discharge the urine without the feces, are common conse- quences of irritation of parts about the neck of the bladder, from a diseased prostate gland, and other causes. The urine stopping in a full stream is frequently caused by a stone altering its situation, so as to obstruct the passage; but the same thing may happen from a tumor, or fun- sus in the bladder. I have seen an instance of this, where a tumor, hanging by a small pedicle, would sometimes cause obstruction, and by al- tering the posture, would retire, and give a free passage. The dull pain at the neck of the blad- der, and the sensation of pressure on the rec- tum, are frequently owing to the weight of the stone, &c.; but these may proceed from a dis- eased enlargement of the prostate gland. Chil- dren generally, and grown persons frequently, are subject to a prolapsus ani, from the irrita- tion of a stone in the bladder; but it will like- wise be produced by any irritation in those parts.” (Earle.) The rest of the symptoms are equally fallacious; a schirrous enlargement of the os tincje, and disease of the kidneys may occasion a copious quantity ofmucus in the urine, with pain, irritation, &c. “ The least fallible sign (says Sir James Earle) which I have remarked, is the patient making the first portion of urine with ease, and complaining of great pain coming on when the last drops are expelled. This may readily be accounted for, from the bladder being at first defended from contact with the stone by the urine, and, at last, being pressed naked against it. But, to put the matter out of all doubt, and actually to prove the existence of a stone in the bladder, we must have recourse to the operation of sounding. A stone in the ureter, or kidneys, or an inflam- mation in the bladder from any other cause, will sometimes produce the same effects; but if the patient cannot urine, except in a certain posture, it is almost a sure sign that the orifice of the blad- der is obstructed by a stone. If lie finds ease by pressing against the perinaeum with his fingers or sitting with that part upon a hurd body, there is little doubt the ease is procured by taking off the weight of the stone; or, lastly, if, with the other symptoms, he thinks he can feel it roll in his bladder, it is hardly possible to be mistaken; however, the only sure judgment is to be formed lrom searching. (Sharp on the Operations.) An enlarged prostate gland is attended with symptoms resembling those of a stone in the bladder; but, with this difference, that the mo- tion of a coach, or horse, does not increase the grievances, when the prostate is affected, while it does so in an intolerable degree in cases of stone. It also generally happens, that the fits of the stone come on at intervals; whereas, the pain from a diseased prostate is neither so un- equal, nor so acute. (Sharp in Critical En- quiry,p. 165, Edit. 4.) Though, from a consideration of all the cir- cumstances above related, the surgeon may form a probable opinion of there being a stone in the bladder, yet he must never presume to deliver a positive one, nor ever be so rash as to undertake lithotomy, without having greater reason for being certain that there is a stone to be extracted. Indeed, all prudent surgeons, for centuries past, have laid it down as an invariable maxim, never to deliver a decisive judgment, nor undertake lithotomy, without having previously introduced a metallic instrument called a sound, into the bladder, and plainly felt the stone. Within the last five years, at least seven cases have come to my knowledge, and at two of them I was present, where the patients were subjected to all the torture and perils of this operation, without there being any calculi in their bladders. The maxim, therefore, cannot be too strictly en- forced, that the operation ought never to be attempted, unless the stone can be distinctly felt with the sound or staff. In one of the examples, of which I was a spectator, not only the sym- ptoms, but the feel, which the sound itself com- municated when in the bladder, made the sur- geons imagine, that there was a calculus, or some extraneous body in this organ. Most of the above cases, I understand, recovered, which may be considered fortunate; because when the stone cannot be found, the disappointed operator is apt to persist in roughly introducing his fingers, and a variety of instruments, so long, in the hope of catching what cannot be got hold of, that in- flammation of the bladder and peritoneum is more likely to follow, than when a stone is ac- tually present, soon taken out, and the patient kept only a short time upon the operating table. In a valuable practical work is recorded an instance, in which what is called a horny carti- laginous state of the bladder made the sound communicate a sensation, like that arising from the instrument actually touching a stone, and the surgeon attempted lithotomy. This patient un- fortunately died in twenty-four hours. (See Desault's Parisian Chir. Journal, VoL 2, p. 125.) However, were the symptoms most unequivo- cal, there is one circumstance which would always render it satisfactory to touch the stone with an instrument, just before venturing to operate; I mean the possibility of there actually being a stone in the bladder, to-day, and not to-morrow.