737 .JOINTS. moving the joint, is also commonly less in this disease, than in ordinary ulceration of the carti- lages. * (Lloyd, on Scrophula, p. 142.) And, accordin'! to Mr. Brodie, the principal criterion between "scrophulous diseases of joints, and the primary ulceration of cartilages, is the little degree of pain in the former cases, which is never much complained of before an abscess forms, nor par- ticularly severe, “ except in a very few instances, and in the most advanced stage of the disease, when a portion of ulcerated bone has died, and having exfoliated, so as to lie loose in the cavity of the joint, irritates the parts, with which it is in contact, and thus becomes a source of constant torment.” (Brotile's Pathol. Obs. p. 236.) It seems probable, that cases, in which the can- cellous structure of the bones is found quite un- diseased, and in which the mass of disease is confined to the soft parts, are not scrophulous white-swellings. Few persons, who have attained the age of five and twenty, without having had the least symptom of scrophula, ever experience, after this period of life, a first attack of the white- swelling of the strumous kind. The general cor- rectness of this observation, I believe, is univer- sally admitted, and that therearebut few exceptions to it is confirmed by the statements of Volpi, of Pavia. However, Mr. Lloyd attended a man, who, at the age of between forty and fifty, died of phthisis, and had at the time a scrophulous ankle, besides several abscesses about his hip and groin. And the same gentleman met with an- other patient upwards of forty years old, with a similar disease, (Ore Scrophula, p. 137.) But, if these patients had had no marks of scrophula in their younger days, a circumstance not spe- cified, they form deviations from what is usual, as indeed Mr. Lloyd seems to admit. My own observations lead me fully to concur with Mr. Brodie, that the scrophulous affections of the joints, so frequent in children, are rare after the age of thirty. (Pathol. Obs. p. 229 ) All cases, ■ in which the internal structure of the heads of the boues becomes softened, previously to the fi affection of the cartilages, and soft parts, are i|| probably scrophulous. Mr. Russell has noticed the frequent enlarge- M ment of the lymphatic glands in the groin, in 11 consequence of the irritation of the disease in the knee; but he justly adds, that this secondary aff 'Clion never proves long troublesome. When the bones are diseased, the head of the ■ tibia always suffers more, than the condyles of 1; the thigh bone. (Russell ) The articular sur- ! face of the femur sometimes has not a single i rough or carious point, notwithstanding that of ' the tibia may have suflered a great deal. The 1 cartilaginous coverings of the heads of the bones are generally eroded first at their edges; and, in the knee, the cartilage of the tibia is always more affected, than that covering the condyles of \ ■ the thigh bone. Indeed, when white-swellings i i have their origin in the bone& and the knee is the ! » seat of the disorder, there is some ground for * supposing, that it is in the tibia, that the morbid mischief usually first commences. 1 he ligaments of the knee are occasionally so weakened, or destroyed, that the tibia and fibula become, more or less, dislocated backward, and drawn towards the tuberosity of the ischium, by the powerful action of the flexor muscles of the leg. It is observed by Mr. Brodie, that, just as ulceration of the cartilages is sometimes followed by dislocation of the hip, so we find, that dislo- cation of the knee occasionally takes place from the same cause. Where there has been con- siderable distention of the soft parts, in conse- quence of ulceration extending to them, the head of the tibia is gradually drawn backwards by the action of the flexor muscles; and Mr. Brodie has even known this happen, previously to the formation of any abscesses. (Pathol. Obs. p. 159 ) I have seen a curious species of white-swelling, in which the leg could be bent to each side to a very considerable distance, both when the knee was extended and bent; a state implying a pre- ternatural, looseness, or perhaps a destruction, of the ligaments of the articulation. Scrophulous white-swellings, no doubt, are under the influence of a particular kind of con- stitution, termed a scrophulous or strumous ha- bit, in which every cause, capable of exciting in- flammation, or any morbid and irritable state of a large joint, may bring on the present severe dis- ease. On the other hand, in a man of a sound constitution, a similar irritation would only in- duce common healthy inflammation of the joint. In scrophulous habits, it also seems as if irrita- tion of a joint is much more easily produced, than in other constitutions; and no one can doubt, that when once excited in the former class of subjects, it is much more dangerous, and dif- ficult of removal, than in other patients. The doctrine of particular white-swellings being scrophulous diseases, is supported by many weighty reasons, the opinions of the most accu- rate observers, and the evidence of daily expe- rience. Wiseman (Boole 4, chap. 4) calls the spina ventosa a species of scrophula, and tells us, that infants and children are generally the sub- jects of this disease. The disorder is said by Se- verinus to be exceedingly frequent in young subjects. Petrus de Marchettis has observed both male and female subjects affected with what are called strumous diseases of the joints, as late as the age of five and twenty; but not after- wards, unless they had suflered from scrophula before that period of life, and had not been com- pletely cured. R. Lowerus also maintains a si- milar opinion. Even though a few persons have scrophulous diseases of the joints, for the first time, after the age of twenty five, this occur- rence, like the first attack of scrophula after this period, must be considered as extremely uncom- mon. Another argument, in favour of the doctrine, which sets down particular kinds of white-swell- ings as scrophulous, is founded on the hereditary nature of such forms of disease. Numerous continental surgeons, particularly Petit and Brambilla, have noticed how very sub- ject the English are both to scrophula and white- swellings of the joints. We every day sec, that young persons afflicted with the present disease, are generally manifestly scrophulous or have once been so. Frequently enlarged lymphatic glands in the neck denote this fatal peculiarity of constitution ; and very often the patients are known to have descended from parents who had strumous disorders. (Crowthrr.) The disease is also frequently combined with swelled niesen- 3 B t