1014 SUT SYN dergo no deterioration, were sutures altogether rejected from practice. I believe, however, that every man, who has had opportunities of ob- servation, and has made use of them, with an unprejudiced mind, will feel persuaded, that more wounds are hindered from uniting by sutures, than such as are healed by them, and could not l)C united by other means. But, prudent practitioners are not obliged, either to condemn or praise the use of sutures, in every instance, without exception. Men of in- dependent principles will always adopt the line of conduct which truth points out to them as that which is right; nor will they obstinately join Pibrac and Louis, in contending that sutures are always improper and disadvantageous, nor with other bigoted persons, who may use sutures in every kind of wound whatever. Perhaps, su- tures are still rather too much employed, and, in all probability, will long be so. It will be diffi- cult, entirely to eradicate the prejudices, on which their too frequent use is founded, as long as, what may be called, the teachers of surgery are seen holding up the practice for imitation in every principal hospital in the kingdom. Such surgeons, however, as are ready to imbibe fair and candid sentiments on the subject, and to qualify themselves for practising this part of sur- gery with judgment, should by no means neglect to read both what Pibrac and Louis have written on the subject. I know that the latter authors are a little too sanguine in their representations; but, as I have already remarked, sutures are still rather too much used, and something is yet necessary to do away a certain unwarranted habit of having recourse to them without real necessity. Nothing will tend- to produce this desirable change so much, as the perusal of every argument against their employment. i am decidedly of opinion, not from what I have read, but what I have actually seen, that the sides of the generality of wounds are capable of being effectually kept in contact, by means of a proper position of the part, and the aid of strips of adhesive plaster, compresses, and a bandage. I believe that such success can be obtained with every advantage which can be urged in favour of sutures, and without their disadvantages; such as greater pain, inflammation, &c. I even think, with Louis, that the harc-lip might in general be united very well by means of a bandage; but still I am of opinion, that the twisted suture is attended with least trouble, is most suited for universal practice, and that, unless such pains were taken as many practitioners would not, and others could never take, the method by bandage would frequently fail. I find it exceedingly difficult to lay down any fixed principles for the guidance of the surgeon, in respect to when he ought, and when he ought not, to use sutures. Perhaps, sutures should be made use of for all cuts and wounds, which occur in parts which are subject to an unusual degree of motion, such as would be apt to derange the operation rtf bandages, sticking plaster, and compresses. Hence, the propriety of using the twisted suture fnr flip lmm-lii). viscera making a protrusion. In this situation, the continual motion and action of the abdominal j muscles, in respiration, besides the tendency of I the viscera to protrude, may be a reason in favour I of the use of sutures. When two fresh-cut surfaces positively cannot | be brought into contact, by sticking plaster* I bandages, tne observance of a proper posture* I &c. there can be no doubt of the advantage of I using sutures, if they will answer the purpose. I Some wounds of the trachea; some wounds made I for the cure of certain fistulous communications { between the vagina and bladder, or others for j the cure of similar affections in the perinaeum, 1 afford instances of cases to which I allude. I observe, that many surgeons in this metro- polis use sutures for bringing the sides of the wound together after several operations; as that of removing a diseased breast, castration, and operations for strangulated hernia. The reason for using sutures in the scrotum, I suppose, arises from the difficulty of keeping the edges of the wound in contact, owing to the great quantity, and looseness of the part. In this case, I cannot determine whether sutures are really necessary, or not; but, after the ampu-f tation of the breast, I have no hesitation in pro-1 nouncing their employment wrong and inju-|i dicious. I shall conclude with referring to what Pibracj and Louis have written on the above subjects, inj Menu do VAcad, de Chir. Torn. 3 and 4| ! Sharp, Dioiiis, Gooch, Lc Dran, Bcrfrandil Sabatier, B. Bell, and J. Bell, have all trcatch Of sutures. See also C. E. Boeder, Sutura Vulnerum; Upsal. 1772. SYMPATHETIC BUBO. See Bubo. SYNCHYSIS. (from avyyyvr, to confound.j The term synchysis sometimes denotes the coni fusion of the humours of the eye, occasioned kj blows, and attended with a rupture of the inter! nal membranes and capsules. Beer understands; by the expression a dissolution of the vitreoul humour, or the state of it in which its consist ence is entirely destroyed. (See Lehrcvondct Augenkr. B. *2, p. ‘267.) SYNECHIA. The case, in which the in adheres to the cornea is termed synechia a»U rior ; that in which the uvea adheres to the caj jj sule of the lens, synechia posterior. Beer ba I delivered two valuable chapters on these subject ■ The synechia posterior, on account of the fn { quent delicacy of the adhesions, is apt not to l \ (letected, unless the eye be examined with part | cular care. A magnifying glass should be use F and the pupil be first dilated with hyoscianta 1 or belladonna. The treatment, as far as tl y prevention and removal of such adhesions a j practicable, strictly belongs to the subject. I iritis. ( See Ophthalmy.) With the view ! dispersing them, Beer praises the good effects , applying to the eye itself ointments contain’n it preparations of mercury, or a collvrium hydrar $ oxymuriatis, to which some of the thebaic tint ture is added. As an inward medicine, he saj $ calomel is the most effectual. When eye-sahj used, Beer recommends a little of the 'r are tract of hvoscianuis to be mixed with them