EMPLASTRUM. 415 of the lung to the pleura pulmonalis; and, by communications from cells to cells, it caused a prodigious swelling of the cellular substance, be- tween the two layers of the mediastinum. The emphysema, increasing, at length made its ap- pearance above the clavicles. This tumefaction of the lung, and surrounding parts, in conse- quence of air getting into their spongy, and cel- lular texture, is an evident cause of suffocation, and, the swelling seems so natural an effect of the presence of a foreign body in the trachea, that one can hardly fail to think it an essential sym- ptom, though no author has made mention of it. {Mem. de l’Acad. (It Chir. Tom. 4, in 4to.) The emphvsematous swelling, sometimes formed in the axilla, in the reduction of a dislocated shoulder, (See Dislocation) was accounted for by Desault and Bichat, on the same principle as the foregoing case, viz. a rupture of one of the air-cells, by the patient’s efforts to hold his breath during the reduction of the bone. How far the explanation of the cause may be true, has been questioned ; (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 12, p. 15); the • fact itself admits of no doubt, and is both curious . and interesting. An emphysematous swelling of the head, neck, and chest, has also been noticed in typhoid : fevers. Dr. Huxham relates an instance, of this sort, in a sailor of a scorbutic habit. (Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vo!. 3, Art. 4.) A •: case of spontaneous emphysema has likewise been ddescribed by Dr. Baillie. (See Trans, for the i Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vo!. 1, ;>. 202.) A curious example of what has been called, a s spontaneous emphysema, is recorded by Mr. Allan Burns : <l The patient was a strong athle- tic man, who, about six years previous to his ap- plication at the Royal Infirmary, had received a smart blow on the neck, from the keel of a boat. :This injury was soon followed by the formation of a firm tense tumor, on the place, which had been hurt. The-swelling increased very slowly, 1 during the five years immediately succeeding its commencement; but, during the sixth, it re- ceived a very rapid addition to its bulk. At this time, it measured nearly six inches in diameter, seemed to be confined by a firm and dense cover- ing, and the morbid parts had an obscure fluetua- ' tion. From the first to the last, the tumor had t been productive of very little pain. “ Judging from the apparent fluctuation, that the tumour was encysted, it was resolved, at a j consultation, to puncture the swelling, draw oft’ I fits contents, and then pass a seton through it. i By plunging a lancet into it, only a very small : ]uantity of blood, partly coagulated, and partly Huid, was discharged,—a quantity so trifling, :hat, after its evacuation, the size of the tumour 1 #a$ not perceptibly reduced. A seton was passed ■hrough the swelling. At this time, the man was in perfect health. “ About ten hours after the operation, the pa- •aent was seized with extremely violent rigors, ollowed by heat, thirst, pain in the back, excers- ve pain in the tumour, and oppressive siek- -ness. “ An emetic was prescribed, but, instead of producing vomiting, it operated as n cathartic. o remove the irritation the seton was with- Irawn. The pain in the tumour, however, and the ;cneral uneasiness continued to increase, and thirty hours subsequent to making the puncture, air began to issue from the track of the seton ; and, afterwards the cellular membrane of the neck, and of the other parts of the body in suc- cession, became distended with a gaseous fluid. In the course of a few hours, after the commence- ment of the general emphysema, the man died. “ Twelve hours after death, when the body was free from putrefaction, it was inspected. The emphysema was neither increased, nor diminished since death, and some idea may be formed of its extent, when the scrotum was distended to the size of the head of an adult. Even the cavities of the heart, and the canals of the blood-vessels, contained a considerable quantity of air. We could discover no direct communication between the tumour and the trachea or lungs, although such was carefully sought for.” (A. Bums on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, //. 51—53.) From such cases, we may infer, with the pre- ceding writer, that from the mere rupture of a few of the bronchial cells, occasioned by irregular action of the lungs, or by some other internal cause, a spontaneous diffusion of air may take place in the cellular texture of the body. Such examples are dependenton the same cause as the emphysema from injury of the lungs; only the rupture of the bronchial cells in the former cases is less obvious. Surgeons often observe a partial emphysema in cases of gangrene. Here, however, it is hardly necessary to observe, the air is the product of pu- trefaction, and the disorder has not the smallest connexion with any injury, or disease of the air- cells of the lungs. The reader may consult, with advantage, f En- cyclopedic MSthodique, Parlie Chirurgicale. C.C. Puy.'Ch, De Emplnjsemalc {Haller. Disp. Clnr. 2. 567, Haltc, 1733. II. A. Nies, De Miro Em- phystmate, 4to. Duish. ad Rhen. 1751. Hezesun’s Paper in Medical Observations and Inquiries, Vol. 3. Mb o’, del'Acad. Ruycde des Sciences, fur 1713. Dr. Hunter,in Medical Obseivutwns and In- quiries, Vol. 2. Cheston, in Pathological Inquiries. Abernetlnfs Surgical Works, Vol. 2. Richter von der Windgeschvculst, in Anfungsgr. der V/unda> z- neykunst, Band l, p. 451, <5fc. John Bell on Wounds, Ed. 3. Edinb. 1812. Halliday on Em- physema, 1807. Allan Burns on the Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 52, 6Cr. Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Me- dical and Chir. Knowledge, Vul. 1, p. 262. Wil- mer’s Observations in Surgery, p, 143. F. C. Wails, De Emphysemate, 4to. Lips. 1803. Ri- cher and Nosographie Chirurgicale, Tom. 4, p. 164, Edit. 2. Lassus Pathologie Chirurgicaler Tom. 2, p. 321, <Sfc. Edit. isOP. Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 12, p. 1, <£c. J. Hennen, Prin- ciples of Mil. Surgery, p. 376. Ed. 2, 8eo. Edinb. 1820. C. Bell, Surgical Ohs. Vol. 1, p. 161, &c. EMl'LASTRUM AMMONIACI CUM ACETO. jy. Ammoniaci purif. ^'j* Acidi Acetici 3;iij. Ammoniacum in nceto liquefaction evapora in vase ferreo ad emplastri crassitudi- nem. EMPLASTRUM AMMONIACI SCIL- LITICUM. \x. Gumm. ammoniaci :j. Aceti Scillitici, q. s. ut fiant emplastrum, quo pars affecta tegatur. Mr. Ford found this Inst plaster useful in