into the pupil, while the gentle pressure, and the projection of the cataract thereby produced, con- siderably enlarge the pupil, and facilitate the pro- per division of the capsule. In order to com- plete the latter object, the surgeon introduces one of the sharp edges of the capsule-needle, with the point directed towards the inner canthus, be- tween the cornea and the iris, the wound in the former of these membranes being opened as little as possible, lest the atmospheric air enter the eye, a circumstance, of which Beer entertains great appreiiension. After the capsule-needle has been cautiously passed to the inferior margin of the pupil, its lower sharp edge is to be applied to the capsule of the lens with its point directly upwards, and oue of its flat surfaces towards the inner; and the other, towards the outer canthus. The opera- tor is now strictly to cut through the capsule, by making at small distances from one another re- peated perpendicular strokes with the edge of the needle. Then the handle of the instrument is to be half turned round on its axis, and similar strokes are to be made with its edge in a some- what oblique direction, by which means, the an- terior layer of the capsule will be cut into many squarish fragments, some of which, in the third stage of the operation, are taken out of the eye gether with the cataract, and the risk of a secondary cataract of the anterior layer of the capsule is in a great measure removed. When the capsule-needle has done its business, it is to be withdrawn from the eye in the same position in which it was introduced, and the second stage of the operation is thus finished. (J3icr, B. p. 369.) I believe no better instructions, than the fore- going, can be delivered, respecting the most ad- vantageous method of dividing the capsule. They are infinitely better, than those given by Wenzel and Ware. As soon as the point of the cornea knife had arrived opposite the pupil, Wenzel used to incline it gently backward, and thus puncture the capsule; but, Mr. Ware very properly ob- jected to this plan, which, however it might serve to exhibit the dexterity of the operator, was at- tended with no advantage to the patient, and could not be so efficient and safe as the mode of making the division of the capsule a distinct part of the operation. Indeed, Wenzel himself did not recommend opening the capsule of the crystalline, in every instance, at the time of cutting the cornea. In cases, where the pupil is much contracted, and where the muscles of the eye and eyelids are easily thrown into convulsions, it is improper, says he, to puncture the capsule when the section of the cornea is making. This is also improper when the space, between the crystalline, and-the iris, termed the |>osterior chamber, is large. In all such cases, Wenzel acknowledged, that it is better simply to divide the cornea in the lirst in- stance, and then to puncture the capsule with a different instrument. Wenzel and his father used to employ, for this purpose, a Hat needle, one line, that is, one-twelfth part of an inch, in dinmeler, having its cutting extremity a little incurvated. This needle, which 'hev advised to be made of nealed gold, in order I 'at its pliability may allow the operator to bend II >n different directions, as occasion requires, h lixed in a handle, two inches and a half in CATARACT. 313 length, and similar to that of the cornea knife. At the other extremity of the same handle a small curette, or scoop, is fixed, made also of nealed gold, which is of use for extracting the cataract. The late Mr. Ware’s method of opening the capsule will be hereafter noticed. When the incision in the cornea has been completed, and the capsule effectually divided, the cataract, as Beer observes, advances into the pupil immediately behind the capsule -needle, and, if there be the least action in the eye itself, it is generally at once discharged. Under these very favourable circumstances, however, it sometimes happens, that a portion of the gelatinous or scab- rous surface of the cataract is detached at the margin of the pupil, as the opaque body is pass- ing out, and, therefore, in the second stage of the operation, Beer recommends having Daviel’s scoop always ready, which is to be substituted for the capsule-needle, and employed for preventing the loose fragments from falling back into the posterior chamber in the following manner : as soon as the operator remarks, that, in the passage of the cataract out of the pupil, a portion of it will be scraped off by the edge of that opening, he should introduce the scoop at the lower and outer edge of the cataract upwards, between the cornea and the iris, so as to be able to keep the part of the cataract, which is ready to break off, close up behind the rest of it, and bring the whole out of the eye. But, says Beer, when the third stage of the operation, viz. the removal of the cataract from the eye, cannot be so readily accomplished, a cir- cumstance, not always owing to an imperfection in the incision in the cornea, or in the division of the capsule, but sometimes proceeding from a want of proper action in the eye itself; the operator, if he feels convinced that the fault does not lie in the first or second stage of the opera- tion, (in which case, it would be necessary to endeavour to rectify what is wrong,) should as- sist in promoting the discharge of the cataract. There are two manners of doing this, and it is not a matter of indifference, which is selected ; for, the second should be adopted only, when the first will not answer. Hence, says Beer, the operator, like a skilful accoucheur, must first trust to the action of the organ itself, which lie should in a certain degree excite, and not pro- ceed immediately to the use of a scoop, hook, or forceps. The eye is to be suffered to, turn quickly a few times upwards, and in general, during these movements, the surgeon will perceive, that the lower edge of the cataract advances further through the pupil, and at length, slips out of the eye, without the aid of instruments. If at this period, a portion of the cataract were found to be likely to break ottj the employment of David’s scoop, in the way already explained, would bo proper. On the other hand, if, during the pro- traeted movements of the eye upwards, this organ evince little energy of its own, the cataract will not enter the pupil, or scarcely do so, much less pass out of the eye, and the operator is under the necessity of resorting to manual assistance, and with the end of the finger, used for ke. ping the lower eyelid depressed, he is gently to press the lid against the lower part of the eye-ball. Such pressure should be gradually increased, un- til the greatest diameter of the cataract has passed