510 FURUNCULUS. ulcerates, a thin ichor is discharged, and a good deal of the hard fibrous substance is destroyed by the ulceration ; other parts become affected, and the patient dies from the increased ravages of the disease, and its irritation on the constitution, bometimes, though not always, after a scirrhus has ulcerated, it emits a fungus of a very hard texture. Such excrescence, however, is itself at last destroyed by the ulceration. Cancerous sores, also, frequently put on, for a short time, an appearance in some places of cicatrization. On the other hand, the fungus hsematodes, while of moderate size, is a soft elastic swelling, with an equal surface, and a deceitful feel of fluctua- tion. It is, in general, quite circumscribed, being included within a capsule. The substance of the tumor, instead of being for the most part hard, consists of a soft, pulpy, medullary matter, which readily mixes with water. When ulcera- tion occurs, the tumor is not lessened by this process, as in scirrhus; but a fungus is emitted, and the whole swelling grows with increased ra- pidity. Cancerous diseases are mostly met with in persons of advanced age, while fungus hsema- todes generally afflicts young subjects. (War- drop.') Many dissections have now proved, that the substance of fungus hsematodes may contain cellular septa, which include the pulpy, medul- lary matter. In cases of external cancer, the viscera are not in general affected at the same time with can- cerous disease; but, in the majority of examples of fungus hsematodes, this distemper is found affecting in the same subject a variety of parts. In addition to the outward tumor, we find swell- ings of a similar nature, perhaps, in the liver, the lungs, the mesenteric glands, or even in the brain. Yet, M. Roux will have it, that cancer and fun- gus hsematodes are the same disease; or, at least, that the latter is only a species of the former, and, that, in both cases, the same peculiar dia- thesis prevails. (Rout, Parallele de la Chirur- gie Angloise avec la Chirurgie Franpoise, p. 21G —217.) See Dissert alums an Inflammation, by J. Burns. Vol. 2. Hey's Practical Observations in Sur- gery, cd. 3. Freer on Aneurism. Observations on Fungus Hccmaiodes, or Soft Cancer, by James Wardrop, 8vo. Edin. 1809. This last publica- tion is highly deserving of the attention of the surgical practitioner, the disease in different or- gans being well described, and its character dis- criminated from that of cancer. A case of this disease is related in Vol. 5 of the London Medical Journal. It was the consequence of an attempt to cure a ganglion by means of a se- ton, and it proved fatal. A case is also related by Mr. Abemelhy, in Surgical Observations, 1804, p. 99. See also a Case of diseased Testicle, ac- companied with Disease of the Lungs and. Brain, by H. Earle, in Medico-Chirurg. Trans. Vol. 3, p. 59, S{C. in which Vol. four other cases are re- corded by Mr. Lawrence, p. 71, ct seq. and one by Mr. Langstajf, p. 277, which last I remember visiting in compuny with this gentleman and Mr. Lawrence, a short lime before the patient died. See also LavgstaJJ's Cases and Observations in the 8 th and 9tli Vol. of the same work. Voyage fait a. Londres en 1814, ou Parallele de la Chirurgie Angloise avec la Chirurgie Fran poise, p. 211, <$r. On Fungus Ilccmatodcs of tlicEyf, there arc some valuable observations in the last edition of Scurpa'i Treatise on the Diseases of that organ. See also Saunders on Diseases of the Eye, and 11. Travers’s Synopsis of Diseases of the Eye, 8uo. Load. 1 820. Respecting medullary sarcoma, which is ge- nerally considered as the same affection as fun- gus hsematodes, some further observations will be delivered in the article, Tumors. FURUNCULUS. (from faro, to rage,) A boil, so named from the violence of the heat and inflammation attending it. A boil is a circumscribed, very prominent, hard, deep-red, inflammatory swelling, which is exceedingly painful, and commonly terminates in a slow and imperfect suppuration. The figure of the tumor is generally that of a cone, the base of which is considerably below the surface. Upon the most elevated point of the boil, there is usu- ally a whitish, or livid pustule, which is exqui- sitely sensible, and immediately beneath this is the seat of the abscess. The matter is mostlv slow in forming, is seldom very abundant, and never healthy, at first, being always blended with blood. The complaint is seldom attended with fever, except, when the tumor is very’ large, si- tuated on a sensible part, or when several of these swellings occur at the same time in different places. In the last circumstance, they’ often oc- casion in children, and even in irritable adults, restlessness, loss of appetite, spasms, &c. They rarely exceed a pigeon’s egg in size, and they may originate on any'part of the body. Boils commonly arise from constitutional causes. Young persons, and, especially subjects of full plethoric habits, are most subject to them. The disease is also observed to occur with most frequency in the spring. (Lassus, Pathologic Chir.VT. 1, p. 16.) According to Ricberand, the origin of boils depends upon a disordered state of the gastric organs. (Nosngraphie Cliir. T. 1. p. 1 24, edit. 2.) The suppuration attending a boil, is never perfect, and the matter, which forms, is not only tinged with blood, but surrounded with a sloughy substance, which must generally’ be discharged, before the part affected will suppurate kindly, and the disease end. Richter compares the slough with a kind of bag, or cy’st, and the whole boil with an inflamed encysted tumor. The best plan is mostly to endeavour to make boils suppurate, as freely as possible, by apply- ing external emollient remedies. This seems to be the natural course of the disease in its progress to a cure, and, indeed, all endeavours to discuss furunculous tumors commonly fail, or succeed very imperfectly; only removing the inflamma- tion, and leaving behind an indolent hardness, which occasions various inconveniences, accord- ing to its situation, every now and then inflames anew, and never entirely disappears, until a free suppuration has been established. In a very few eases, perhaps, it may’ be pro- per to try to discuss boils. For this purpose, besides bleeding, gentle evacuations, and a low diet, which are requisite in this, as well as other local inflammations, some prescribe as external applications honey strongly acidulated with sul- phuric acid ; allcohol; or camphorated oil. But, in the generality of instances, suppura- tion must be promoted, by the use of emollient i