(ESOPHAGOTOMY. 85.9 Esophagus arc the immediate cause of the pa- tient’s danger. Hence, when the symptoms of suffocation are extremely urgent, but the foreign body produces no external prominence in the neck, the surgeon should in the first instance per- - form tracheotomy, so as to obviate the imminent peril arising from the impeded state of respira- ion, and afterwards try such measures for the re- moval of the substance lodged in the oesophagus, is experience points out as most likely to prove successful. Though oesophagotomy was cur- sorily mentioned by Verduo in his ** Pathologie Chirurgicale,” Guattani, formerly a distinguished surgeon at Rome, is entitled to the honour of having published the first valuable observations on the subject. {Mem. de l'Acad, de Chir. T. 8, 4fo.) Guattani proved by experiments, that the operation might be safely performed upon dogs, which recovered after it very well, and he demonstrated on the dead body, that it was equally practicable on the human subject. Hay, what is still more to the point, he brought forward two instances, in which the practice had been successfully adopted on living patients. “In May, 1738, Goursauld, a surgeon at Coussat- Bonneval, in Limousin, was called to a man, in whose cesophagus a bone was lodged, an inch long and half an inch broad. Various ineffectual endeavours were made to force it down into the stomach, and, as it was perceptible on the left side of the neck, Goursauld ventured to make an incision for its extraction. The bone was thus easily taken out, no bad symptoms fol- lowed, and the wound healed up favourably with the aid of an uniting bandage. For six days the patient was not allotved to swallow any kind of food, but was nourished entirely with clysters. According to Morand, a similar operation was performed, with equal success, by Roland, sur- geon-major of the regiment of Mailly.” {Mem. de l'Acad, de Chir. T. 3.) Although the deep situation of the cesophagus, amongst the most important parts in the neck, makes cesophagotomy an operation of consider- able delicacy in the hands even of a skilful sur- geon, and one of great danger in those of a man, deficient in anatomical knowledge, and ignorant ol the right way of proceeding, yet the propriety of performing it, under the circum- stances, which have been specified, is universally admitted. When, however, I refer to the de- licacy and difficulty of the operation, I am meaning a case, in which a deliberate dissection is made down to the cesophagus, without any guidance from the projection of the foreign body within it; a case, in which my views of the sub- ject lead me to think, contrarily to Guattani, that the experiment would generally be attended with no practical benefit; which is also the sentiment ol Baron Boyer. For, with respect to opening tile cesophagus, with the view of tracing a sub- stance in it, not externally perceptible, and either of taking hold of the .same substance with forceps, or pushing it down into the stomach with other instruments, introduced through the incision, as suggested by Guattani, the chances of success must be too small to justify a practice, in which it is above all tilings of consequence to have | >e guidance afforded by the prominence in the iroat, as a test of the foreign body being actually 0 yoi in the cesophagus, and capable of being removed from it by the proposed operation. Indeed, the uncertainty of being able to reach and extract the foreign body, when its precise situation is not indicated by any external swell- ing, appears to me an objection of greater validity, than any consideration either of the increased difficulty of cutting into the oesophagus under these circumstances, or of the usual consequences of such an incision, after it has been accom- plished ; because the practicable nature of the operation, and the tendency of wounds of the (Esophagus to heal favourably, when not com- plicated with other mischief of too serious a de- scription, are facts proved beyond the possibility of dispute. In attempts at suicide and murder, and in cases of gunshot irjury, the oesophagus is sometimes wounded, together with other parts in the neck, and yet the patients frequently re- cover; and, when they die, their fate seems to depend rather upon other unfavourable circum- stances in their cases, than upon the accidental injury of the gullet. The cures of wounds of the neck, involving the latter tube, as well as the trachea, are reported by numerous writers, B. Bell, Desault, Bohnius, &c. and some have fallen under my own observation. If it were necessary to substantiate this point further, I might cite the instance, recorded on the au- thority of Dr James Johnson, where a man re- covered after the larynx had been completely severed between the thyroid and cricoid car- tilages, and one half of the calibre of the oeso- phagus divided. (See Hcnnen s Military Sur- gery, p. 364, Ed. 2.) But, supposing a wound of the oesophagus, abstractedly considered, were more dangerous, than it really is, the question of the propriety of cesophagotomy would not be materially affected by it, because the operation is never recommended, except as a matter of necessity, and without which the patient would have no chance of preservation. As the oesophagus does not descend exactly in a straight line, between the trachea and ver- tebrae, but inclines rather to the left side of the spine, Guattani directs the left side of the neck to be preferred for the performance of oesopha- gotomy. But, Boyer has justly remarked, that, as the operation should never be attempted, un- less there be projection of the foreign body, the place for the incision is always to be determined by the situation of the projection, the left side being chosen only when the prominence is either most distinguishable there, or at all events not less, than on the opposite side of the neck. {Traite des Mai. Chir. T. 7, p. 192.) The parts, which cover the oesophagus, from the middle and external part of the neck to the upper part of the sternum, are the skin, fat, cel- lular substance, muscles proceeding from the sternum to the larynx, the thyroid gland, the thyroid arteries and veins, the trachea, the re- current nerve, &e. Guattani, who preferred the left side of the neck, recommended the following mode of operating. The patient is to sit on a chair, with his head inclined backward, and steadily supported by an assistant. The skin having been pinched up into a transverse fold, an incision is to be made in the integuments from the upper part of the sternum. The cel- lular substance, between the sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus muscles and trachea, is next