344 CORNEA. the point of contact, so as to prevent them from hurting the eye. Hence, they are to be applied in very minute quantities with a fine camel’s hair pencil, and to be washed off with an elastic gum syringe, before the eyelid is returned. Of the em- ployment of astringent collyria, in conjunction with escharotics, Dr. Vetch disapproves. (See A Practical Treatise on the Discuses of the Eye, p. 67, <S<;c.) With respect to the treatment by excision, as first practised by Mr. Saunders with scissors, and afterwards by Sir W. Adams with a knife, the principle of cure does not appear to me different from that aimed at with escharotics, unless these latter be supposed not always to de- stroy, but sometimes to cause an absorption of the fungous granulations. For the purpose of cutting away the redundant diseased membrane, the eyelids should be everted over a probe. For the form of disease, termed by Mr. Travers “ strumous nebula, with vessels over- shooting the cornea,” this gentleman recommends ptyalism. tie says, that “ the hydrargyrus cum creta, or oxy-muriate, in small, but frequent doses, will sometimes succeed better in this case, than the other forms of mercury, and the combination of calomel with antimony, better than that with opium.” When the internal exhibition of mer- cury either disorders the bowels, or has no effect on the constitution, frictions are to be preferred. (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 282.) In the particular form of opacity, to which he alludes, he disapproves of dividing the vessels of the conjunctiva, before the inflammation has declined. (P. 285.) From some observations, published by Mr. Wardrop, it would appear, that certain opacities of the cornea are produced by an increase in the quantity of the contents of the eyeball, and not by the deposition of an albuminous fluid in the texture of the cornea, as takes place in the com- mon speck. He considers this fact proved by cases, in which the cornea regained its trans- parency the instant the aqueous humor was eva- cuated. Some cases are detailed by this gentle- man, with the view of recommending the prac- tice of puncturing the cornea, and discharging the aqueous humor, for the relief of the kind of opacity to which we have here alluded. (See Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 180, &;c.) For other opacities of the cornea, refer to Albugo, Leucoma, and Staphyloma. ULCERS OF THE CORNEA. An ulcer is a common consequence of the bursting of a small abscess, which not unfre- quently forms beneath the delicate layer of the conjunctiva continued over the cornea, or in the very substance of the cornea itself, after violent ophthalmy. At other times, the ulcer is pro- duced by the contact of corroding matter, or sharp-pointed bodies insinuated into the eyes, such as quick lime, pieces of glass, or iron, thorns, &c. As Dr. Vetch has observed, ulcera- tion of the cornea is a very f requent consequence of purulent ophthalmy. I he little abscess ot the cornea is attended with the same symptoms, as the severe acute ophthalmy; especially with a troublesome sensation of tension in the eye, eye- brow, and nape of the neck ; with ardent heat; copious secretion of tears; aversion to light; intense redness of the conjunctiva, particularly near the point of suppuration. The inflamma- tory pustule, compared with similar ones, in any other part of the body, is slow in bursting alter matter is formed. Scarpa deems it improper, J however, to puncture the small abscess; for, though it assumes the appearance of being per- fectly maturated, the matter contained in it is so tenacious, and adherent to the substance of the cornea, that not a particle issues out of the arti- ficial aperture, and the wound exasperates the dis- ease, increases the opacity of the cornea, and often occasions another small abscess to form in the vicinity of the first. Indeed, if the observa- tions of Mr. Travers be correct, “ the ulcer of the cornea begins, not in abscess, but, in a cir- cumscribed deposit of lymph, or in pure ulcera- tive absorption without pus.’’ (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 10(i.) And, Dr. Vetch takes notice, that the observation, with respect to fluid matter never forming in the cornea, he invariably found true in several cases, where the whole of the eyeball had been destroyed by inflammation. (Practical Treatise on the Dis- eases of the Eye, p. 52.) This author differs from Scarpa, however, respecting the question of opening pustules, or abscesses of the cornea; for, he remarks, that, whenever the matter, or slough is removed, the ulcer, however deep and extensive, will fill up without leucoma being the consequence. By a little address, he says, it may, in most instances, be removed in a mass upon the point of a lancet, or couching needle. (Op. cit. p. 50.) This remark applies both to cases, where lymph, or tenacious matter more or less protrudes, and to instances, in which it is quite confined between the lamellze of the cornea. Scarpa thinks that the safest plan is to temporize, until the pustule spontaneously bursts, j promoting it by means of frequent fomentations, bathing the eye with warm milk and water, and applying emollient poultices. The spontaneous ! bursting of the little abscess is usually denoted : by a sudden increase of all the symptoms of oph- thalmy ; particularly by an intolerable burning pain at the point of the cornea, where the abscess first began, greatly increased by motion of the eye, or eyelid. The event is confirmed by ocular j inspection, and at the spot where the white pus- I tule existed, a cavity appears, as may best be : seen, when the eye is viewed in the profile. Ex- traneous bodies in the eye, which have simply divided a part of the cornea, or lodged in it, when soon extracted, do not in general cause ulceration, as the injured part heals by the first ; intention. Those which destroy, or burn the surface of this membrane, or which when lodged, i are not soon extracted, excite acute ophthalmy, suppuration at the injured part, and at length ulceration. As Dr. Vetch has observed, the appearance of ulceration varies according to the degree of j apostemation, or tendency towards it, in the sur- rounding cornea: when this part is clear, the case is doing well, but when opacity' conies on, the ulcer is increasing. The soft middle lamina, he says, is destroyed with great rapidity, when the inflammation is violent, but as soon as the ulcer reaches the internal coat, its progress often proceeds no further. (Practical Treatise o» Diseases of the Eye, p. 52.)