NECROSIS. David, &c. to be formed by the vessels of the periosteum. (See Nosographie Chir. T. i,p. 158, 161, Edit, 4.) Boyer does not espouse this theory exclusively ; but represents the tiling as sometimes happening. (See Traiii dcs Mul. Chir. T. 8, p. 426.) As far as the observations of Weidmann in- formed him, the short or cuboid bones do not appear to be capable of reproduction. (/-*. 31.) Duverney mentions an astragalus, which was destroyed by necrosis; but, does not state, that any substitute for it was afterwards formed.— ( Traite dcs Maladies dcs Chir. Os. p. 458.) Weidmann also never witnessed a reproduc- tion of the spongy substance, such as it was before its destruction, round the medulla. He always found the substituted matter dense and compact, at least, for some time after its forma- tion. It is now admitted, however, that in process of time, the inner surface of the new bone be- comes cellular, and is lined with a membrane containing medulla. The regeneration of the medulla was first observed by Koehler, and after- wards in an extensive series of experiments, which Professor Thomson made with Dr. Alex- ander M'Donald, and which were published in the latter gentleman’s inaugural dissertation in 1799. (See Thomson's Lectures on Inflammation, p. 393.) Mr. Russell does not appear to adopt this opinion, concerning the regeneration of the medulla; for, he states, that, after the absorp- tion, or removal of the sequestrum, the cavity of the new bone becomes filled up with granulations, which are at length converted into bony matter. Thus, he says, the new bone differs from the original one, in being solid, instead of hollow. Authorities, however, are decidedly against Mr. Russell on this point: in the 5th vol. of the Mem. de VAcad. dc Chir. is the history of a man, the whole of whose clavicle came away, without his being deprived of any of the motions of the arm. The death of this patient, which happened shortly afterwards, afforded an opportunity of examining how nature had repaired the loss. Another cla- vicle was found regenerated, which neither dif- fered from the original one in length, nor solidity; but only in shape, being flatter, and not so round. It was connected with the acromion and sternum, just like the primitive bone. The power, which thus reproduces bones, is only a modification of that, which unites frac- tures. Indeed, what consolidates broken bones, and is known by the name of callus, presents all the characters of new bone, begins and grows in the same way, 'and may be impeded and retarded in its formation by the same causes. (See Callus and Fractures.) It is further highly probable, as Weidmann remarks, that the power, which effects the reproduction of bones, is the same as that, which, in the sound state, nourishes and supports these parts. But to what organ appertains the function of reproducing bones? Many able men have ascribed the whole work to the periosteum. (C* Havers; Duhamel, Mem. de l'Acad, dcs Sciences, 1739,1741, 174',?, 1747. Fongeroux, Mbm. sur les Os; Paris, 1760. Swenckc, Ilarlcmcr Abliandlungcn I, th. p. 39. Berlin, Ostiologie. Mangues, Abhand- lung von dcr Natur und Erzeugung dcs Calft i p. i 99.) Haller, (Elem. Physiol. T. 8, p. 359 ) cl I lisen, (Collect. Ilafn. T. <2, p. 187.) Tend I (Mem. de l'Acad, dcs Sciences, 1758, p. 415 ,] Bordenave, {Mem. sur les Os, p. 227) all I many others, have seen a part of the new pr» duction spring up from the substance of the cj 1 bone; a thing, says Wiedmann, which one J also led to believe by the fact, that, when t) 1 whole tube of a long bone is affected with necr« sis, the epiphyses, which remain sound a] I untouched, unite, and grow to the new tulj I though no periosteum exists in the situation ( I the union. Nor does Weidmann think, that the specimi | of a fractured thigh, of which Blumenbach hj| published an engraving, proves the contrary.-] ( {Gcschichte und Bcrschrcibmig drr Knocher s Gottingen, 1786, Tab. I, fig. I.) This prepara ( tion exhibits an union, which had taken place II | means of a very broad osseous ring, encompass \ ing the ends of the fracture, which lie far asuni der. The event appears to Weidmann to haw been the result of rachitis, or lues venerea, win p which the young patient, according to Bluemerj i bach himself, had been affected, and by whief s the nutrition of this bone had been disordered For, says Weidmann, in other examples of unitec t fractures, the ends of the bone are so connected i together by the callus, that there does not exisfll a single point between them, where this subtanc«]| is not effused, and the medullary canal itself ii obstructed and filled with it. In the Journ. r CompUm. du Diet, dcs Sciences Med. T. 8, maj i be found some considerations, offered b\- Larrey ! against the doctrine, that the periosteum is tfia I organ of ossification. That, however, the periosteum is frequently ; the organ of the reproduction of the bones, seems proved by the experiments of Troja, Blumen- bach, Desault, and Koehler, since in these the : bones were invariably regenerated, though there • was nothing left of the old bone, that could fur- nish the new reproduction, except the periosteum. . If we examine the new bone, at different pe- ■ riods of its development, it appears in the ear- liest state in the form of a reddish fluid, as haa ’ been observed by Duhamel, Fougeroux, Borde- t nave, Haller, Callisen, and others. If we also* ' attend to the progressive changes, which thisn • fluid undergoes, we cannot but believe, that, astft in the embryo, an organic and fixed arrangement. 9 of parts takes place. Indeed, it would be erro- jl neous to consider such fluid as destitute of or-41 ganization and pxtravasated at random. Thin £ and little in quantity on its first appearance, its) consistence and quantity afterwards gradually f increase {Troja, p. 42, 44,) so that what at first appeared like a liquid, soon becomes a gelatinous! substance, in which are developed, especially at its inner surface and towards its lower part, bony fibres, which incessantly become more and more numerous. These fibres in a short time form little layers and cells, and extend them- selves every where, so that at length all which was fluid disappears, and the new bone is pro- duced. While young, however, it is still spongy and reddish, {Troja, p. 44); but soon becomes denser, harder, and more solid, than that was for