AMAUROSIS. 59 hereafter advert, that it cannot well be mistaken; namely, a perfectly clear pupil wavers in the mid- state between contraction and dilatation, the iris seeming to be nearly motionless; the eyes weep from the slightest causes, and constantly betray more or less aversion to light; the case is in- variably attended with wandering, irritating pains, sometimes affecting the eye-ball itself, sometimes the vicinity of the eye, and, in other instances, the teeth or neck. Also, when both eyes are affected together, which is not regularly the case, a cast of the eye, which cannot be called actual squint- ing, may be remarked, and frequently the motion of the eye-ball is chiefly obstructed only in one direction, though sometimes a true obliquity of the organ exists: (tusdiasj. In nearly every instance, there is considerable weakness of the levator muscle of the upper eye-lid, and, not unfrequently, a complete blepharoplegia; but total blindness is seldom produced. According to Beer, this amaurosis, which is to be considered as chronic rheumatism, often arises from keeping the head long exposed to the air, and is chiefly met with in individuals who while sweating profusely from the scalp and brow, in warm weather, have taken off their hats, and remained with their heads a long while uncovered. As, however, in warm weather, the generality of persons expose themselves in this manner, and few are attacked by amaurosis, I infer, that something more is requisite for the production of the disease. Under certain circumstances, the prognosis is by no means unfavourable, and hitherto Beer has mostly succeeded in effecting a perfect cure when the amaurosis was notcompletelyformed; not of very long standing; the patient had no ten- dency to gout, and when during the treatment every thing was avoided that was likely to bring on an attack of that disease. Experience proves, however (says Beer), that if the patient be not cautious, the disease be neglected, or the least dis- position to gout prevail, this amaurotic impair- ment of vision may change into a complete gouty amaurosis, just as rheumatic ophthalmy may be converted into gouty inflammation of the eye. In this amaurotic weakness of sight, the treat- ment consists not simply of local means, which indeed are always needful, but likewise of general remedies. With regard to the latter, Beer assures us, that manifold experience has convinced him of the preference which ought to be given to the extract of guaiacum, joined with camphor, and given alternately with the compound powder of ipecacuanha; which remedies, as soon as the wandering pains about the eye and eyebrow begin to be milder, and more fixed to one part, are to be succeeded by the extract of aconitum, antimo- nial preparations, and flowers of sulphur. Ex- ternally, the most powerfully operating means are not to be omitted, especially blisters applied successively behind the ears, to the temples, and eyebrows; and as soon as the pain has com- pletely subsided in these last parts, and is perhaps more concentrated in the eye, frictions are to be made on the eyebrow with liniments, containing at first a moderate quantity of opium, and after- wards of the extractum conii. At length, when the pain in and about the eye is nearly subdued, but some degree of amaurotic weakness of sight left, frictions with naphtha and a small propor- tion of tinctura lyttae and tincture opii, will be found exceedingly beneficial. Afterwards, when a considerable time has transpired, without the recurrence of the slightest rheumatic pain in the eye, its vicinity, or the head, but the eyesight is not perfectly re-established by perseverance in the above general and local treatment, and espe- cially, when the paralytic affection of the levator of one or other of the upper eyelids continues, (as often happens), galvanism may be tried, with the cautions elsewhere premised. (See Gutta SerenuJ. And in the most desperate cases, Beer approves of making an issue in the depression between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid pro- cess, and keeping it open for a fortnight after the recovery seems complete. (Lehre von der Au- ge.nkr. B. 2, p. 526—29J. 7. Of the amaurosis, which, proceeds from the stoppage of a catarrh, loithout any actual col- lection of mucus in the frontal sinus. In this instance, as Beer observes, the circum- stances of the pupil becoming very much dilated, yet retaining all its wonted transparency, the iris being motionless, and its pupillary edge not regularly circular, but ftngular, will not form any criterion, because these morbid appearances are common to several forms of amaurosis. But, the constant projection of the margin of the pupil into an angle directed towards the temple, whereby the pupil is also inclined more towards the external, than the internal canthus, is a peculiar mark of the case, and as difficult of explanation as the displacement of the pupil towards the root of the nose in what Beer and others consider as syphilitic iritis. The patient also complains of the eye being unusually dry; of a sensation of particular fulness in it; of a very troublesome dryness of the nose on both sides, even though the amaurosis be restricted to one eye; and his feelings are constantly those of a person who is in a dusty room. These subjective symptoms (says Beer) are conjoined with an amazing heaviness about the root of the nose, and a shooting pain in the head, extending from the region of the frontal sinus outwards to the temple, and upwards to the top of the head. This case of amaurosis, however, never terminates in complete blindness, though the impairment of vision may attain a degree, which approaches the latter state. The diagnosis will be materially facilitated by an inquiry into the history of the disease, when it will be found, that the affection of the sight followed the sudden stoppage of a violent catarrh. According to Beer’s experience, when an abun- dant discharge of mucus from the nose can be excited (which mode of treatment, however, requires the greatest caution, lest it do more harm than good), there are few cases of amau- rosis, in which the prognosis is as favourable as in the present example. The indication is to reproduce, as quickly and as freely as possible, the secretion of mucus from the nose; but this object is not to be at once attempted with the most powerful sternutatories; for (as Beer can affirm from his own experience) such treatment is apt to fail, and do more injury than benefit, to the eyesight. This eminent practitioner incul- cates, therefore, the propriety of first preparing, as it were, the Schneiderian membrane for the