ANEURISM. 129 risms of the lower extremity, and on patients much older than forty-five, with a degree of con- fidence, which nothing but great success could inspire. According to Scarpa, the circumstances chiefly preventive of success, especially in the popliteal and femoral aneurisms, are the following : rigi- dity, atony, or disorganization of the principal . anastomoses, between the superior and inferior . arteries of the ham and leg; sometimes depend- ing on an advanced age, or on it, together with the large size of the aneurism, which, by long con- tinued, pressure, has caused a great change in the • neighbouring parts; or sometimes on steatoma- tous, ulcerated, earthy, cartilaginous disorganiza- tion of the proper coats of the artery, not con- ! fWd to the seat of the rupture, but extending I great way above and below the aneurism, and also to the principal popliteal recurrent arteries, riibial arteries, and, occasionally, to portions of : the whole track of the superficial femoral artery. S Sometimes, the pressure of large aneurisms ren- tiers the thigh bone carious. In such circum- stances, the ligature is apt to fail in closing the trunk of the artery; and, if it should succeed; lie state of the anastomosing vessels will not ldmit of a sufficient quantity of blood being con- veyed into the lower part of the limb. Hence, .vhen the patient is much advanced in life, lan- . ;uid, and sickly; when the internal coat of the irtery is rigid, and incapable of being united by i ligature ; when the aneurism is of long stand- ng, and considerable size, with caries of the os emoris, or tibia; when the leg is weak and cold, nuch swelled, heavy, and oedematous; Scarpa onsiders the operation contra-indicated. I must, owever, declare in this place, that I have seen ery large aneurisms, as well as aneurisms in ersons of advanced age, cured by the Hunterian •lan, in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital; and, with icspect to the affection of the bones, though it iay be an unfavourable circumstance, its conse- uences are not so serious as those of ordinary aries, as I have already explained. It appears, then, that the obliteration of the rtery, for a certain extent above and below the .lace of rupture, forms the primary indication in I le radical cure of aneurism, whether compression j r the ligature be employed ; all other means are ; nly auxiliary. Internal remedies may be useful, lasmuch as they tend to moderate the deter- lination of the blood towards the place, where • ie artery has been tied or compressed. In the articles Hemorrhage, and Ligature, I ave related in detail the effects of the ligature •pon a tied artery, and particularly the various rocesses which arise from its application, and irminate in the permanent obliteration of the ?ssel. In the same places, I have explained hat are the best ligatures for use, as well as the Test manner of using them. Confining myself the sequel of this article, to what expressly dates to aneurism, I shall here merely annex || e following general directions, as stated by jl lr. Hodgson. II First, The cord should be thin and round, [| lcf* !l hgaturc being most likely to effect a clean jl vision of the internal and middle coats of the l| ;S8eh, and not liable to occasion extensive H ceration or sloughing. Secondly, The ligature should be tight, in order to insure the complete division qf the internal and middle coats, and to prevent its de- tachment, it being almost impossible, even with the thinnest ligature, entirely to cut through a healthy artery. Thirdly, The vessel should be detached from its connexions only to such an extent as is neces- sary for the passage of the ligature underneath it. Fourthly, The immediate adhesion of the wound should be promoted by all such means as are known to promote that process in general. (On the Diseases of Arteries, p. 225, 226.) In the course of his experiments upon brutes, to ascertain the operation of the ligature, Dr. Jones arrived at a fact, which offered the proba- bility of leading to an improvement in the opera- tion for aneurism. (Treatise on Hemorrhage, chap. 3.) When a small firm ligature is applied to an artery, it causes a division of the internal and middle coats; and if it be afterwards re- moved, an effusion of lymph takes place between the cut surfaces into the cavity of the vessel. If several divisions of the internal and middle coats be thus effected in the vicinity of each other, the effusion of lymph was found by Dr. Jones to be sufficiently extensive to obliterate the cavity^ of the vessel. In the year 1800, Mr. C. Hutchinson tied the brachial arteries of two dogs, and re- moved the ligatures immediately after their ap- plication : in both instances, as he assures us, the complete obliteration of the canal of the artery was the consequence of the operation. (See his Practical Observations in Surgery, p. 103.) If immediately after the operation for aneurism, the ligature could be removed, and yet the vessel become obliterated, it would be highly advantageous, as there would then be left in the wound no extraneous substance to prevent its union, or promote secondary hemor- rhage by extending the sloughing, or ulcerative process too far. It is to be regretted, that suc- cess has not attended the repetition of the ex- periment by others. Mr. Hodgson tried it, but the artery did not become impervious. (See Experiments A. &; B.p. 228, 229, of this gentle- man’s work.) Mr. Dalrymple, of Norwich, made the experiment not less than seven times on the horse, and three times on sheep, and failed in every instance in obtaining the same result as Dr. Jones. Not only was no coagu- lum formed, but, even where the animal had been suffered to live until the thirteenth, fif- teenth, and eighteenth days after the operation, the canal of the artery was not found obliterated. In every instance, indeed, its calibre was con- tracted ; but it was still capable of transmitting a lessened column of blood. (Travers, in filed. Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 442.) Thus, it appears, that an effusion of lymph is an invariable conse- quence of the operation, and as Mr. Travers has observed, the want of union is therefore owing to the opposite sides of the vessel not being retained in a state of contact, so as to allow of their adhesion. The presence of the ligature, in the common mode of its application, effects this object; and for the success of *• Jones’s experiment, it appeared only necessary, that the opposite sides of the wounded vesse should be retained in contact, until their n< usion was sufficiently accomplished to resist t ie pas K