180 ANTRUM. traction, the whole of the abscess is seen to es- cape through the sockets. But this very simple plan will not suffice for all cases, as there are numerous instances, in which there is no communication between the alveoli and the antrum. Drake, and, perhaps, before him, Cowper, took notice of the insufficiency of Meibomius’s me- thod, and, hence, they proposed making a perfo- ration through the socket into the antrum with an awl, for the purpose of letting out the matter, and injecting into the cavity such fluids as were judged proper. The extraction of one or more teeth, and the perforation of the alveoli, being essential steps in treating diseases of the antrum, we must con- sider what tooth ought to be taken out in prefer- ence to others. A caries, or even a mere continual aching, of any particular tooth, in general ought to decide the choice. But, if all the teeth should be sound, which is not often the case, writers direct us to tap each of them gently, and to extract the one which gives most pain on this being done. When no information can be thus obtained, other cir- cumstances ought to guide us. All the grinding teeth, except the first, corre- spond with the antrum. They even sometimes extend into this cavity, and the fangs are only covered by the pituitary membrane. The bony lamella, which separates the antrum from the al- veoli, is very thin, towards the back part of the upper jaw. Hence, when the choice is in our power, it is best to extract the third or fourth grinder, as, in this situation, the alveoli can be more easily perforated. Though, in general, the first grinder and canine tooth do not communi- cate with the antrum, their fangs approach the side of it, and from their socket an opening may readily be extended into that cavity. When one or more teeth are carious, they should be removed, because they are both useless and hurtful The matter frequently makes its escape, as soon as a tooth is extracted, in conse- quence of the fang having extended into the an- trum, or rather in consequence of its bringing away with it a piece of the thin partition between it and the sinus. Perhaps a discharge may fol- low from the partition itself being carious. If the opening, thus produced, be sufficiently large to allow the matter to escape, the operation is already completed. But, as it can easily be en- larged, it ought always to be so when there is the least suspicion of its being too small. How- ever, when no pus makes its appearance, after a tooth is extracted, the antrum must be opened by introducing a pointed instrument in the di- . rection of the alveoli. Some use a small trocar, or awl; others a gimblet for this purpose. The patient should sit on the ground, in a strong light, resting his head on the surgeon’s knee, who is to sit behind him. Immediately the instrument has reached the cavity, it is to be withdrawn. Its entrance into the antrum is ea- sily known by the cessation of resistance. After the matter is discharged, surgeons advise the opening to be closed with a wooden stopper, in order to prevent the entrance of extraneous sub- stances. The stopper is to be taken out, several times a day, to allow the pus to escape. This plan soon disposes the parts affected to discontinue the sup- puration, and resume their natural state. Some- times, however, the pus continues to he discharg- ed, for a long time after the operation, without any change occurring, in regard to its quality or quantity. In such instances, the cure may of ten be accelerated by employing injections of brandy and water, lime-water, or a solution of the sulphate of zinc. Some surgeons prefer a silver cannula, or a piece of elastic gum catheter, instead of the stop- per, as it can always be left pervious except at meals. The examples recorded, in which the extraction of a tooth, and the perforation of the bottom of the antrum, have been the means of curing abscesses in that cavity, are very numer- ous. (See Farmer’s Select Cases, No. 9; Gooch's Cases, p. 6\i, veto edition ; Pulfyn Anatomic, If no opening were made in the antrum, the matter would make its way, sometimes towards the front of this cavity, which is very thin ; sometimes, towards the mouth; and fistulous openings, and caries would inevitably follow. When the bones are diseased, the above plan will not accomplish a cure, until the affected pieces of bone exfoliate. A probe will generally enable us to detect any caries in the antrum. The fetid smell, ana ichorous appearance of the discharge, also leave little doubt that the bones are diseased ; and, in proportion as the bones free themselves of any dead portions, the dis- charge has less smell, and its consistence becomes thicker. When there are loose pieces of dead bone, or other foreign bodies, to be extracted, it is requisite to make a larger opening in the antrum than can be obtained, at its lower part. In- stances also occur, where patients have lost all the grinding teeth, and the sockets are quite obliter- ated, so that a perforation from below cannot be effected. Some practitioners object to sacrificing a sound tooth. In these circumstances, it has been advised to make a perforation in the an- trum, above the alveolar)- processes : Lamorier first proposed this method. It consists in making a transverse incision, below the malar process, and above trie root of the third grinder. Thus the gum and periosteum are divided, and the bone exposed. A perforating instrument is to be con- veyed into the middle of this incision, and the opening in the anlrurn made as large as requisite. (See Mem. ae l'Acad, de Chir. T- 4, p. Sol, and Gooch's Ohs. append, p. 138.) There are some extensive exfoliations of the antrum, where it is absolutely necessary to expose a great part of the surface of the bone, and to cut away the dead pieces which are wedged, as it were, in the living ones A small'trephine may sometimes be ad- vantageously applied to the malar process of the superior maxillary bone. Surgeons formerly treated carious affections of the antrum in the' most absurd and unscientific way, introducing setons through its cavity, and even having recourse to the actual cautery. The moderns, however, are not much inclined to adopt this sort of practice. It is now known, that the detachment of a dead portion of bone, in other terms, the process of exfoliation, is nearly, if not entirely, the work of nature, in which the sur- geon can at most act only a very inferior part. > ,