ANEURISM. 150 method, a tourniquet must be applied to the up- per part of the arm ♦near the axilla; or, if the limb be very painiul and swelled, it is better to let an assistant compress the artery from above the clavicle, against the first rib. The incision having been made into the tumor, and the blood discharged, a probe is to be introduced into the puncture in the vessel, from below upwards, so as to raise the artery. This, being separated from the parts beneath, and the median nerve, lor a small extent, is to have two ligatures put under it, one of which is to be tied above, the other below, the wound in the vessel. Then the tourniquet, or pressure, is to be taken off', and if there be no bleeding, the wound is to be brought together. (See Scarpa, p. 359.) In reference to this operation, Rosenmuller’s Chir. Anat. l’lates, Part 2. Tab. 11. and Camper’s Demonstr. Anat. Pathol. Lib. 1. are worth consulting. It was on the brachial artery, that Mr. Lam- bert, (Mai. Ob', &; Inquiries, I,Tol. 2.) made the experiment of closing the puncture in the vessel by means of the twisted suture, under an idea, that the plan would not, like compression, oblite- rate the arterial tube, and therefore, that the risk of gangrene would be lessened. Now, although in the trial which was made, the bleeding was permanently stopped, Lambert was mistaken in supposing, that the pervious state of the wounded part of the artery was preserved by the adoption of the twisted suture, instead of pressure or the ligature. If ever a small puncture in an artery heal, so as to leave the tube of the vessel pervi- ous, it is under the circumstances pointed out by Dr. Jones. (See Hemorrhage.) Had Lambert had an opportunity of examining the state of the vessel, some time after the above operation, he would have found its canal obliterated; and had he known the freedom with which the collateral arteries anastomose with the recurrent arteries of the forearm, he would have known how to ex- plain more correctly the re-establishment of the pulse. I need merely add, that as the false idea of preserving the perviousness of the artery was the only foundation for the method, the practice ought never to be revived, as not affording equal security from hemorrhage to what is obtained by the ligature, or even compression, AXILLARY ANEURISMS. Aneurisms occasionally take place in the axilla, and make it necessary to tie the subclavian ar- tery. A question, here naturally presenting it- self, is, whether the surgeon should attempt the operation in an early period of the disease, or wait till circumstances are urgent; the aneurism large and far advanced; the arm oedematous and insupportably painful; and the tumor in danger of bursting? In all cases of aneurism, unques- tionably, there is a certain chance of the disease getting spontaneously well; and one axillary aneurism, in a man in St. Bartholomew’s Hospi- tal a few years ago, had certainly disappeared of itself, as was proved by the account which the patient while living gave of his case, and by the obliteration of the artery, found on inspection after death. I believe, however, we ought not to suffer our conduct to be too much influenced by the hope o/' so unfrequent an event, and, Irom the observa- tions, which I have made on this subject, it is mv decided opinion, that the operation should never be delayed, so as to allow the tumor to acquire an immoderate size. The operation is always difficult; but, the difficulty is seriously increased, .when the swelling lias extended far towards the breast, and has become so large as to push the clavicle considerably upwards. The several ex- amples, in which the subclavian artery has now been tied, have furnished abundant proof, that the anastomoses are fully competent to the supply of the limb with blood. The plan, therefore, of de- laying the operation long, with the view of allow- ing the inosculating arteries to enlarge, must be as questionable here, as in some other cases of aneurism, and at all events, the maxim may be safely advanced, that, previously to the operation, the tumor should never be suffered to acquire an enormous size. That the limb vTould receive an adequate sup- ply of blood was well proved, even without the performance of the operation, by cases in which the axillary and subclavian arteries had been ren- dered impervious by disease, as, for instance, by the pressure of an aneurism of the aorta. (For an account of such facts, the reader is particularly referred to Hodgson’s Treatise on the Discuses of Arteries, p. Ill ; Journal de Medec.ine hy C- r- visart, Lcroux and Boyer, T. 2, p. 29 ; Corvisart, Essai sur les Mo ladies du Catur, p. 215.) “ In these cases (says Mr. Hodgson) the only unusual circumstance, which was observed dur- ing the life of the patients, was the deficiency of the pulse at the wrist. The limbs were well nou- rished, although a considerable extent of the main artery (the subclavian) was obliterated, even before it had given oft’ any branches.” (P. 47.) This vessel was tied by a Mr. Hall, in Che- shire, when it had been wounded with a scythe, and its ends exposed; the arm was preserved, though it remained somewhat weakened, which might be owing to the division of some large nerve, (See J. Bell on Wounds, p. 60. edit. 3, and Scarpa, p. 372.) Mr. White, of Manchester, relates another instance of this vessel being tied, in the case of a wound ; but, mortification of the limb, and death followed. Three of the nerves were found included in the ligature. (I^ondon Med. Journ. V. 4.) In cases of wounds of the axil- lary, or any other large arteries of the extremi- ties, the surgeon, before proceeding to apply a liga- ture, should first ascertain the precise place of the wound in the artery; and, for this purpose, it may sometimes be proper, in certain wounds of the shoulder, to make an incision in the axilla so as expose the injured part of the vessel; or, if circumstances do not forbid it, the external wound may be dilated, until the exact part where the artery has been wounded is discovered. In proof of the propriety of acting in this manner, and applying a ligature above and below the wound in the vessel, Scarpa quotes a case, in which such practice was successful on a patient under M. Maunoir, of Geneva: the artery had been injured with a sabre near the head of the humerus: but, after the wounded part of the ves- sel had been traced, and secured in the way above suggested, the patient, a boy fourteen years ot age, was saved from the dangers of hemorrhage and recovered the use of his arm, as last as this was possible, with the loss of the first phalanges