434 EXOSTOSIS. sec this substance composing part of the tumor. Lastly, it very often happens, that the same ex- ostosis presents an assemblage of the ivory sub- stauce, and of the cellular laminated substance, the cavities of which are partly filled with a pul- taceous matter, and partly' with a sort of ge- latinous substance. When an exostosis is not very large, it hardly affects the surrounding soft parts; but when it has made considerable progress, the muscles be- come stretched and emaciated, the cellular sub- stance is thickened, and, its layers being adherent together, a kind of confusion is produced amongst all the adjacent parts. Exostoses not of considerable size may, however, seriously in- terrupt the functions of certain organs. The action of the flexor muscles of the leg has been known to be obstructed by' an exostosis in the vicinity of the knee. A similar tumor arising near the symphysis pubis need not be very large to impede considerably the functions of the ure- thra, as experience has proved. An exostosis in the orbit has been known to displace the eye and destroy vision. Lastly, exostoses, when situated near certain important organs, and of large size, may affect with different degrees of gravity the functions of these parts, as the brain, the lungs, &e. (See Bayer, Truitt dcs Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 5.41—544.)' Mr. A. Cooper has related a case, in which the eyes were pushed out of their sockets by' two exostoses, which grew from the antra, and one of which destroyed the patient by making its way to the brain through the orbitar process of the os frontis. (Surgical Essays, Part I, p. 157.) In one instance, reported by the same author, an exostosis from the sixth or seventh cervical ver- tebra abolished the pulse at the wrist, by pressing upon the subclavian artery'. (P.^159.) In another, a cartilaginous exostosis of the medullary' membrane of the lower jaw extended so far back that it pressed the epiglottis down upon the rima glottidis, and caused such difficulty of re- spiration, and so much irritation, that the patient was destroyed. (P. 17f>.) Venereal exostoses, or nodes, are observed to arise chiefly on compact bones, and such of these as are superficially covered with soft parts, as for instance, the bones of the cranium, and the front surface of the tibia. The causes of exostosis do not seem to be at all understood. Most writers impute the disease to internal causes, such as scrofula and lues ve- nerea. That the latter affection is the cause of nodes, which are certainly a species of exostosis, no one will deny; but, that scrofula is ever con- cerned in producing any of the other kinds of exostosis must not be admitted, at least, before some evidence is adduced in support of the doctrine. Boyer, however, and all the surgeons of the continent adopt the opinion, that scrofula is sometimes a cause of the disease. Hydatids arc occasionally found within exos- toses, in which circumstance the former are sup- posed to be the cause of the enlargement of the bone. A remarkable specimen of such a disease in the tibia is mentioned by Mr. A. Cooper. (Surgical Essays, Part 1, p. 103.) He refers also to a humerus, in the museum of St. Tho- mas’s Hospital, where the shell of the bone is considerable expanded, the periosteum over it thickened, and in the seat of the cancellated structure, several hydatids, supposed to have been the cause of the enlargement of the exterior surface of the bone, as well as of the increase of its cavity'. (Vol. cit. p. 161.) A most interesting case of a bony tumor on the forehead, containing hydatids, has likewise been recently published by Mr. R. Keate. (Med.Chir. Trans, l td. 10, p. 278.) The ease, with which bony tumors form in some persons, is a curious and remarkable fact, and renders it probable, that constitutional causes here have great influence. Thus, such a blow, as in the generality of persons, wouh! hardly excite notice, will, in others, bring on swellings of the bone, which is struck. Mr. A. Cooper adverts to a young friend of his, in whom an exostosis, .which was undoubtedly caused by a blow, is growing on the metacarpal bone of the little finger. (Inc. cit.) I remember, that Mr. Abernethy mentions, in his lectures, his having seen a boy, from Cornwall, who was so exces- sively afflicted with an appari at predisposition to exostoses, or an exuberant deposition of bony matter, that a very trifling blow would occasion a bony swelling on any bone of his body. His ligamentum nuchae was ossified, and prevented the motion of his neck; the margins of his axillaa were also ossified, so that he was, as it were, completely pinioned. Besides all this, the sub- ject in question had numerous other exostoses on various parts of his body. Mr. Abernethy gave, in this case, muriatic and acetic acids, with a view of dissolving the lime, which this gentleman thought might be too abundant in the system ; but, even if this theory had been correct, and the acids capable of the chemical action in- tended, after passing into the circulation, how could they' be expected to dissolve only the re- dundant depositions of phosphat of lime, and at the same time leave the skeleton i tselfundissolved ? When an exostosis depends upon lues venerea, it is almost always preceded by an acute pain, which in the beginning extends to nearly' the whole of the affected bone, but afterwards be- comes fixed to the point, where the exostosis forms, and it is most severe in the night-time. When an exostosis is caused by' scrofula, says Boyer, the pain is duller, or rather it is quite inconsiderable. It is the same with the exosto- sis, which succeeds a blow, or contusion, without any manifest general cause. In the latter ex- ample, the pain immediately excited by the acci- dent subsides in a few days, and the swelling occurs so slowly, that no notice is taken of it till it has attained some magnitude. (Trail t dcs Mai. Chir. T. 3, p. 545.) An exostosis constantly feels hard; but its size is various, and it may be indolent, or painful. By these signs, and its firm adhesion to the bones, it may be always distinguished from other tumors. Some exostoses cannot be ascertained before death. Such was the case in which the parietal bone was found, after death, to be three times thicker than natural. Such also was (he example related in the memoirs of the Academy at Dijon, in which a person died front an exos- tosis on the internal side of the os pubis, whici tumor prevented the discharge of the urine, or the introduction of a catheter, by its pressure on the neck of the bladder. . . ’ Exostoses may be cither acute, or chum it, >n