1114 URINE, INCONTINENCE OF. carelessness, ilo not make water immediately the lirst calls of nature invite them, and who after- wards, being urgently pressed, wet their clothes. In other young subjects, the sensation which makes the bladder contract, and accompanies the expulsion of the urine, is so slight, that the func- tion is performed, without any formal act of the will,—without even exciting an impression suf- ficiently strong to disturb sleep. This is the case with such children, as are troubled only with an incontinence of urine in the night-time. In- creasing years, by diminishing the irritability of the bladder, and making man more attentive to his necessities, usually bring about a cure of the infirmity, which seldom continues till the patient has attained the adult state. It was not, however, the doctrine of Desault, that no period of life, excepting childhood, is subject to incontinence of urine. On the con- trary, he admits, that other ages are subject to it; but, then, it depends almost always upon a want of resistance to the escape of the urine. Thus, it may be occasioned by weakness, or pa- ralysis of the sphincter vesicze, or levatores ani: Sometimes also by a forcible dilatation of the urethra, and loss of its elasticity, and, (as De- sault might have added) its muscular power of contraction, since the microscopical observations of Mr. Bauer, tend to confirm the existence of muscular fibres on the outside of the membrane of the canal, though, as is elsewhere mentioned, their arrangement and mode of action, are now represented to be quite different from what was formerly supposed. (See Urethra, Strictures of the.) A calculus, a fungus, or any other extraneous body of an irregular shape, may lodge in the neck of the bladder, but, not accurately filling it, may allow the urine to escape at the sides; or there may even be in the calculus grooves through which the urine may pass into the ure- thra. A violent contusion, or forcible distention of the sphincter, is often followed by an inconti- nence of urine. Formerly, the complaint used to be very common after the mode of lithotomy called the apparatus major, and it is even at pre- sent not an unusual consequence of the extrac- tion of calculi from females, either by dilatation, or division, of the meatus urinarius and neck of the bladder. Women, after difficult labours, and in whom the child’s head has seriously contused and weakened the neck of the bladder, are also sub- ject to a species of incontinence of urine; which, however, is in general experienced only when they laugh, or make exertions. Incontinence of urine is stated by many writers to be an attendant on palsy and apoplexy. Here they mistake, what the French surgeons aptly call the “ retention d'nrincavec rcgo'rgemcnt," for an incontinence. In such cases, the involun- tary discharge of urine has been referred to pa- ralysis of the sphincter of the bladder; but, it is forgot, that the bladder itself also participates in the° paralytic affection; for, the sphincter not being a particular muscle, but only a fasciculus of tleshy fibres, formed, as Desault observes, by the iiinetinn of those, which compose the inner same time, as the rest of this organ. Besides, says Desault, it is proved, and all physiologists admit the fact, that the action of the bladder is absolutely necessary for the expulsion of the urine, and that when this organ cannot act, a retention always ensues. Although much less danger attends an incontinence, than a retention of urine, the infirmity is a serious affliction; for as the patient’s clothes are continually wet witli a fluid, that readily pulrifies, the stench, which he carries about with him, is offensive to himself, and every body who approaches him. In children, the disorder usually gets well of itself, as they grow up, and acquire strength. When they wet their beds really from idleness and carelessness, moderate chastisement may lie proper, inasmuch as the fear of correction will make them pay more attention to the earliest call to make water. However, it has always been my own belief, that this doctrine is carried to an unjustifiable extent, particularly, in schools, and been a pretqjct for the most absurd kind of severity. Nor is it doubted by any man, who understands the subject, that, in almost all cases, the disorder is a true infirmity, arising from the causes already indicated, and not from indolence; the supposed crime taking place, in fact, when the child is asleep, and unconscious of what is happening. If excessive irritability, and constitutional weakness, be the cause of incontinence of urine, and a very small quantity of urine forces the j e bladder to contract, the resistance of the urethra being involuntarily overcome, an endeavour 1 should be made to lessen such irritability by the jr use of the warm, or cold bath, sea bathing, tonics, ft chalybeates, good air, &c. And, in order to pre- vent the accident from taking place in the night- time, the child should not take any drink for i some time before being put to bed ; the bladder « should be always emptied before sleep; and, if ' necessary', the child ought to be taken up in the ; : night for the same purpose. | If the infirmity arises from a want of action in the parts, causing the resistance in the urethra, ; a; tonics maybe externally and internally employed. tv However, when the disorder has been of long &,[ standing, Desault found, that they rarely suc- ceeded. Palliative means are then the only resource; viz. instruments, calculated either to compress the urethra, and intercept the passage of the urine, or to receive the fluid immediately it is voided. The first of these plans is more difficult to accomplish in women, than men ; but, it may || be executed by means of an elastic hoop, which I) • goes round the pelvis, and from the middle ofBj which, in front, a curved elastic piece of stcclM; descends, and terminates in a small compress,J; which is contrived to cover accurately the meatusM;; urinarius. (See CEurres Chir. dc Dcsanlt /wrf|! Bichat, T. 3, p. 95, £c.) Large blisters, applied over the os sncrunui*j have often cured an incontinence of urine, bothHf; when the complaint seemingly arose from exccss-OT ive irritability of the bladder, and from paralysiwB and loss of tone in this organ and the partsMr which naturally resist the expulsion of the urin<W, from it, the case being in fact a retention “ PaH