1094 URINARY ABSCESSES. shining tension and oedema of the skin; the di- minution of such symptoms as depended entirely upon the retention; are the first changes, which arc observable, when the extravasation is some- what considerable. If the patient is not speedily assisted, and the urine continues to be extravasated, the tumor spreads more and more; the skin assumes a red violet colour; gangrenous eschars are formed, the separation of which gives issue to a very fetid sanies, in which the smell of urine is readily distinguishable. Portions of dead cellular mem- brane are presently discharged together with the sanies; the ulcer grows larger; and the dressings are continually wet with the urine. When one of the ureters has given way, and an urinary abscess is formed in the loins, the aid to be derived from surgery is limited to making an opening in the extravasation, as soon as it can be felt externally. It is then not in the power of art to re-establish the natural course of the urine, or to hinder this fluid from passing through the wound, and rendering it fistulous. However, there are some circumstances, in which a radical cure may be attempted. For example, if the abscess were produced by a calculus lodged in the infundibulum, or ureter, and it could be felt, and taken hold of with a pair of forceps, introduced into the opening, the extraction of the foreign body might promote the healing of tiie ulcer, by rendering the natural channel for the urine free. When the opening, bj' which the urine has become extravasated, exists in the bladder, or urethra, one indication, that does not present itself in the foregoing case, may be fulfilled-, viz. the urine may be drawn off by means of a ca- theter passed into the bladder, and kept there. By this means, we not only immediately stop the progress of the extravasation, but attack the very cause of the malady, by removing the ob- stacles, which oppose the natural course of the urine. The introduction of the catheter then becomes a matter of the most urgent necessity. This operation is often attended with the great- est difficulties. Besides the ordinary' obstruction of the canal, we have also to surmount the ob- stacles, which the urinary' swellings situated in the course of the urethra, create to the passage of the instrument. When these tumors are considerable, they ought to be opened before the catheter is employed. The subsidence of the swellings would render catheterism more easy. Besides, Desault was assured by daily experi- ence, that with a little skill, exercise, and pa- tience, the catheter might always be got into the bladder. If, however, the thing could not be done, ought we to puncture the bladder, or have recourse to the operation termed by the French boutonniere? Desault was an advocate for neither of these proceedings: he thought it was a more simple and beneficial practice merely to make an exter- nal opening in the collection of effused urine. This measure would both aflord an outlet for the urine, and arrest the extension of the extravasa- tion. Besides, such an opening is often in- dispensably requisite for the purpose of putting a stop to the symptoms depending upon the the catheter can be introduced, there may be cases, in which an opening would not only be useless, but hurtful; for instance, when the swelling, caused by the urine, is of little extent, or when it is situated in the thickness of the parietes of the passage, or along its track, it almost always admits of dispersion by the simple employment of the catheter. Bui, it seldom happens, that this swelling, however small, ends in resolution ; it almost always suppurates; yet, as it breaks into the urethra, the matter escapes between this canal and the catheter, and renders the making of an external opening needless. Experience teaches us, also, that when the tumor is situated in the scrotum, or between the root of the penis and the symphysis pubis, even after the healing of the incisions, made in these situ- ations, a fistula will often remain, which is very difficult of cure. With the exception of these particular cases, Desault was an advocate for opening all urinary abscesses. The manner of opening such collections varies according as the urine may be in one cavity, or widely effused in the cellular membrane. In the first case, a simple incision, the whole length of the cavity, will suffice for emptying and heal- ing it. In the second, if the extravasation is extensive, the incisions must be multiplied. It would be absurd to spare the parts; for, all those, with which the urine has come into con- tact, seldom escape mortification. The incisions, which are made, hardly ever have the effect of saving them; but, by accelerating the discharge of putrid sanies and stagnant urine, they prevent mischief, which would originate from a further lodgment. At all events, when the operation is at all delayed, the destruction of all the parts in contact with this irritating fluid, is inevitable. The approach of mortification is indicated by the crepitation under the bistoury, resembling the kind of noise produced by tearing parchment. The extent and depth of the incisions must he proportioned to those of the abscess. When the extravasation occupies the scrotum, long deep scarifications should be made in that part, as well as in the skin of the penis, and in every place, where the urine is effused. Practitioners, unaccustomed to see such dis- eases, would be alarmed at the extent of the sore, produced by the separation of the eschars. Some- times the whole scrotum, skin of the penis, and that of the groins, perinseum, and upper part of the thigh, mortify, and the naked testicles hang bv the spermatic chords, in the midst of this enor- mous ulcer. It is hardly conceivable how cica- trization could take place over the exposed tes- ticles ; but, the resources of nature are unlimited. She unites the testicles and the chords to the subjacent parts, and drawing the skin from the circumference to the centre of the ulcer, she covers these organs again, and furnishes them with a sort of new scrotum. This statement is founded upon numerous eases, in which nature always followed this course. The cicatrization of the ulcer is even more expeditious, than might be apprehended, considering its extent. In all this business, what does art do ? If the intro- duction of the catheter is excepted, which, indeed* is absolutely necessary for the radical cure, ber * i_ !« nn/1 rmlliiilf*.