FEVERS. '14'J the eye, the symptomatic fever is generally more considerable, than it would be, were it to arise from an equal quantity and degree of inflamma- tion in a less sensible organ. In common parts, as muscles, cellular mem- brane, skin, &c the symptoms will be acute ; the pulse strong and lull, and the more so, if the inflammation be near the heart; but, per- kaps, not so quick, as when the part is fur from it. The stomach will sympathize less, and the blood will be pushed farther into the small vessels. (Hunter.) If the inflammation be in tendinous, liga- mentous, or bony parts, the symptoms will be less acute, the stomach will sympathize more, the pulse will not be so full, but, perhaps, quicker; there will be more irritability, and the blood not being propelled so well into small vessels, it will forsake the skin. (Haver.) It seems to be a material circumstance, whether the inflammation is in the upper, or lower ex- tremity; that is, far from, or near the heart, for the symptoms are more violent, the constitution more affected, and the power of resolution less, when the part inflamed is far from the source of the circulation, than when near it, even when the parts are similar, both in texture and use. ( Hunter.) If the heart, or lungs, are inflamed, either immediately, or affected, secondarily, by sym- pathy, the disease has more violent effects upon the constitution, than the same quantity of in- flammation would have, if the part affected were not a vital one, or one with which the vital parts did not sympathize. If the part be such as the vital ones readily sympathize with, then the sympathetic action of the latter will affect the constitution, as in an inflammation of the testicle. (Hunter.) In such cases, the pulse is much quicker and smaller, and the blood is more sizy, than if the inflammation were in a common part, such as muscle, cellular membrane, and skin. (Hunter.) When the stomach is inflamed, the patient feels an oppression and dejection through all the stages of the inflammation ; the pulse is generally low and quick, and the pain obtuse, strong, and oppressing; such as the patient can hardly bear. If the intestines are much affected, the same symptoms take place, especially if the inflamma- tion be in the upper part of the canal; but, if only the colon be affected, the patient is more roused, and the pulse is fuller, than when the stomach alone is inflamed. When the uterus is inflamed, the pulse is extremely quick and low. When the inflammation is either in the intestines, testicle, or uterus, the stomach generally sym- pathizes. In inflammation of the brain, the pulse varies more, than in the same affection of any other part; and, perhaps, we must, in this instance, form a judgment of the complaint, more from other symptoms, than the pulse. (Hunter.) When inflammation is situated in a part, not very essential to life, and occasions the ge- neral affection of the system, called inflammatory fever, the pulse is fuller and stronger, than com- mon, and the blood is pushed further into the ex- treme arteries, than when the inflammation is in a vital part. The patient, after many occasional rigors, is at first rather roused. Tho pulse is as above described, when the constitution is strong and riot irritable; but, if this be extremely irri- table and weak, as in many women, who lead sedentary lives, the pulse may be quick, hard, and small, at the commencement of the in. flammation, just as if vital parts were concerned. I he blood may also be sizy; but it will be loose and flat on the surface. (ILuiter.) We may set down the ordinary symptoms of the inflammatory fever, occurring in conse- quence of local inflammation in common parts, and in a healthy habit, as follows: The pulse is frequent, full, and strong; all the secretions are diminished ; the patient is’vigilant and restless • the perspiration is obstructed, and the skin is hot and dry; the urine is high-coloured, and small in quantity; the mouth is parched, and the tongue furred; an oppressive thirst is experienced ; with disturbance of the nervous system ; loss of appe- tite and sleep; and, in some cases, delirium. TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATORV FEVER. Upon this part of the subject very little is to be said; for as, in almost every instance, the febrile disturbance of the system is produced, and en- tirely kept up by the local inflammation, it must be evident, that the means employed for diminish- ing the exciting cause, are also the best for abating the constitutional effects. Hence, it very seldom happens, that an}’ particular measures are adopted expressly for the fever itself; as this affection is sure to subside in proportion as the local in- flammation is lessened, or resolved. But, when the febrile disturbance is considerable, and the inflammation itself is also considerable, the agi- tated state of the system may have in its turn a share in keeping up, and even increasing, the local affection, and should be quieted as much as possible. How’ever, in these very' instances, in all probability, we should be led to a more rigorous adoption of the antiphlogistic plan of treatment, by an abstract consideration of the state of the local inflammation itself, without any reference to that of the constitution. Indeed, the increased action of the heart and arteries, and the suppression of the secretions, require the employment of anti- phlogistic means, and antimonials, the very same things, which are indicated for the resolution of the local inflammation itself. Bleeding, purging, cold drinks, low diet; the exhibition of the anti- monium tartarizatum, James’s powder, or the common antimonial powder; and bathing the feet and body in warm water, are measures, which have the greatest efficacy in tranquillizing the constitutional disturbance implied by the term inflammatory fever. But, I think it right to re- peat, that it is hardly ever necessary to have re- course to such an evacuation as general bleeding, merely on account of the fever; as this is only an effect, which invariably subsides in proportion as the local cause is diminished. As Dr. Thomson has remarked, “ the inflamma- tory fever, succeeding to external injuries, or to chirurgical operations, undergoes a kind of naV tural crisis by the appearance of suppuration. In these instances, therefore, unless when the pa- tient is strong and in full health, when the dis- ease is seated in an organ of much importance to life, or is in danger of spreading, as is the case in all inflammations of the membranes lining the three great cavities of the bod}-, the lancet ought to be used with caution. 1'or wc may , *'J too free a detraction of blood, produce a suduin