546 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. procured) by topical application of fomentations, and the warm bath; and, if any internal medi- cine is given as a purgative, it must, for obvi- ous reasons, be ol the mildest nature. The re- moval ot the ingesta, as a source of irritation, is best effected, by frequently repeated oleaginous glysters ; (see Hewlett's Principles of Military Surgery, p. 401, Ed. 2.) and, with respect to dressings, as the same author has observed, con- cerning cases, in which a ball has passed directly through the abdomen, the mildest application should be employed, and no plugging with tents, nor introduction of medicated dressings thought of. (P. 406.) In this publication may be lound cases, in which musket balls were passed by stool; (/;. 401,) in which an artificial anus was formed; (p. 407, fc.) or the kidneys, liver, (p. 4:30—432,) diaphragm, (p. 437,) and other viscera, injured. The following case, exhibiting the possibility of recovery, though the small intestine be com- pletely severed with a ball, is interesting, parti- cularly as cases of this kind have been regarded as positively fatal. The success was also ob- tained, notwithstanding the treatment appears to have been rather too officious, especially, in regard to four incisions made in the end of the bowel, when one would have removed the con- striction spoken of. At the assault of Cairo, 1799, M. N. was shot in the abdomen with a ball, which divided the muscular parietes of this cavity on the right side, and a portion of the ileum. Larrey being upon the field of battle, gave him the first assist- ance. The two ends of the intestine protruded in a separated and inflated state. The upper end was everted, in such a way, that its con- tracted edge, like the prepuce in a case of para- phymosis, strangulated the intestinal tube. The course of the feces was thus obstructed, and the contents of the bowel accumulated above the constriction. Although the patient’s recovery was nearly hopeless, both from the nature of the wound, and from the debility and cholera morbus, which had already seized him in the short period, that he remained without succour in one of the in- trenchments, Larrey was desirous of trying what could be done for so singular a case. He first made four small cuts, through the constricted part of the intestine, with a pair of curved scis- sars, and put the bowel into its ordinary state. He passed a ligature through the piece of the mesentery, corresponding to the two extremities of the bowel. These he reduced as far as the margin of the opening, which he had taken care to dilate, and the dressings having been applied, he awaited events. The first days were attended with alarming symptoms, which, however, after- wards subsided. Those, which depended upon the loss of the alimentary matter, successively abated; and, after two months, the ends of the ileum were opposite each other, and disposed to become connected together. Larrey seconded the efforts of nature, and dressed the patient with a tampon, or sort of tent, that was occasionally employed for two months. The patient was then discharged from the hospital quite cured. In several instances, says Larrey, the sigmoid flexure of the colon was injured, and yet the wounds were cured without any fecal fistulae. At the siege of Acre, three examples occurred; and, at that of Cairo, two. Larrey dilated the en- trance and exit of the ball. Clysters, made of the decoction of linseed, and emollient bever- ages, were frequently exhibited; and the patients were kept on low diet, and in the most quiet state. Sword-wounds, and those made with the bayonet, or lance, may injure some part of the bladder, or even pass through both sides of this organ. In the latter case, the injury is usually fatal, as the urine escapes from the inner wound into the abdomen, and immediately excites mor- tal inflammation. Baron Larrey dressed on the field'of battle several soldiers, whose bladders were thus completely transfixed, and who all perished of inflammation and gangrene, within the first forty-eight hours. However, he ob- serves, that, if the weapon enter the bladder at that part of its fundus, which is not covered bv the peritoneum, the case is curable, unless com- plicated with too much internal hemorrhage. The surest criterion of these cases is the escape of the urine from the external wound; and its discharge may either be momentary, occasional, or continual; differences to be accounted for by the situation of the wound, and the changes, which happen in the bladder. When the bladder is full, and its upper part is pierced, the urine will issue only just at the moment of the accident, and, as soon as it is discharged, the edges of the wound will come together, and permanently close, especially, if the urine can pass freely through the natural channel. But, when this favourable condition is absent, the bladder becomes enormously dis- tended again, the wound is opened anew, and the urine discharged once more from the exter- nal opening. The same things might happen, if one were to withdraw too soon the elastic gum catheter, which has been introduced; and, by introducing the instrument again, the urine might be diverted from the wound, and its natural course re-established. Lastly, Larrey observes, that, when the wound is situated at one of the lowest points of the bladder, the discharge of urine may be incessant, and be of more or less dura- tion. When the track of these punctured wounds is extensive, and not direct, abscesses form at different points where the urine passes. These abscesses, Larrey directs to be immediately opened, and their recurrence prevented by the introduction of an elastic gum catheter through the urethra; one of the chief means of relief in all wounds of the bladder Together with this treatment, he recommends the warm bath, the application of camphorated oily liniments to the belly, antispasmodic cooling medicines, frequent clysters, and sometimes cupping in the vicinity of the wound, or bleeding. (See Mein, de Clnf- Mil. T. 4. p. 286—287.) On the two last means of relief, it would have been better, if Larrey hat laid more stress ; for, next to the catheter, they are unquestionably the most essential. Baron Larrey informs us, that the gun-sh wouwds of the bladder, which occurred in Egyf*> had for the most part a favourable termination. The most remarkable case was that of F. Ch*u mette, a light horseman, who was wounded * the battle of Tabor. The ball ]>nssed across jL B! S i 5 s 19 : ‘ it vti itr tk & St * I ! % i K \ V lit