348 CORNEA. It appears, that Mr. Phipps has had opportu- nities ot watching the progress of several cases, in which the cornea had become conical, and that lie never saw the disease in persons under the age of fourteen or sixteen. The same gentle- man also observes, that when the cone is once complete, the disease seldom makes any further progress, except that the apex sometimes be- comes opaque. Burgman saw a remarkable case, where the cornea of both the eyes of a person, who had been hanged, were so prodigiously extended, that they reached down to the mouth, like two horns. (Haller, Disputationes Chirurg. Tom. 2.) The chapter by Mr. Wardrop on the preceding subject will be found highly interesting to such as are desirous of further information concerning this curious disease of the eye. (See War dr op's Essays on the Morbid Anatomy of the Eye, Vol. 1, chap. 13.) For information, relative to diseases of the cornea, see M. Geiger, Be Fistula Cornea, Tub. 1742. C. F. Gi/flheil, Be Uiceribus Cor- nea, Tub. 1744. J. W. Baury, Be Maculis Cor- nea, &)C. Tub. 1743. G.H.Volger, Be Maculis Cornea, 4to. Gott. 1778. A. G. Richter, An- fansgr. der Wundarzn. B. 3, Kop. 4, 8wi. Gott. 1795. Ant. Scarpa, Tratlato delle Malattie degli or.chi, 2 Ed. 8vn. Pavia, 1816, chap. 8, 10. J. Beer, Praktische Beobacht. tiler dengrauen Staar, und die Krankheiten, Ber Hornliaut, Wien. 1799, und Lehre von den Augenkr. 2 B. JFien. 1817. M. J. Chelius, Ueber die durchsichtige Hornhaut dts Auges, ihre Function, und Hire Krankhaften Veranderungen. 8vo. Karsruhe, 1818. A. Clemens, Biss, sistens Tunica Cornea ti Humor is Aquei Mo- nograpliium Physiologico-pathologicam, 4to. Gott. 1816. J.War drop's Essays on the Morbid Anato- my of the Human Eye, Vol. 1, 8vo. Edit. 1808. B. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, 8vo. Loud. 1820. J. Vetch, a Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Eye, 8vo. Loud. 1820. The sections of this work on opaque cornea, and ulceration of the cornea, are highly interesting. CORNS. (Clavi, Spina Pedum, Calli, Con- dylomata, dj-c.) A corn, technically called clavus, from its fancied resemblance to the head of a nail, is a brawn-like hardness of the skin, with a kind of root sometimes extending deeply into the subjacent cellular substance. When this is the case, the indurated part is fixed; but while the hardness is more superficial, it is quite moveable. Some corns rise up above the level of the skin, in the manner of a flat wart. They are hard, dry, and insensible, just like the thickened cuticle, which forms on the soles of the feet, or on the hands of labouring people. Corns are entirely owing to repeated and long continued pressure. Hence, they are most fre- quent in such situations as are most exposed to pressure, and where the skin is near bones, as on the toes, soles of the feet, &c. However, corns have occasionally been seen over the crista of the ilium, from the pressure of stays, and even on the ears, from the pressure of heavy ear-rings. Corns of the feet arc usually owing to tight shoes, and, consequently, they are more com- mon in the higher classes, and in women, than other subjects. In females, indeed, the ridiculous fashion of wearing high-heeled shoes, was very conducive to this affliction; for, certainly, it merits the appellation. In shoes thus made, the whole weight of the body falls principally on the toes, which become quite wedged, and dread- fully compressed in the end of the shoe. Though some persons, who have corns, sutler very little, others occasionally endure such tor. ture from them, that they are quite incapable of standing or walking. Doubtless the great pain proceeds from the irritation of the hard corn on j the tender cutis beneath, which is frequently very] much inflamed, in consequence of the pressure.] It is observed, that every thing which accele- rates the motion of the blood, which heats the < feet, which increases the pressure of the corn on the subjacent parts, or the determination of blood to the feet, or which promotes its accumulation in them, exasperates the pain. Hence, the bad effects of warm stockings, tight shoes, exercise, long standing, drinking, &c. The pain in warm . weather is always much more annoying, than ini winter. If a person merely seeks temporary relief, its may be obtained by pulling off his tight shoes, sitting down, placing his feet in a horizontal posture, and becoming a little cool; the promi- nent portion of the corn should be cut off, as far as it can be done, without exciting pain, oi} bleeding, and the feet should be bathed in warn* water. The radical cure essentially requires the avoid- ance of all the above causes, and, particularly! of much walking, or standing. Wide, soft shoesj should be worn. Such means are not only re-*| quisite for a radical cure, but they alone very*] often effect it. How many women becoma spontaneously free from corns in child-bed, anti other confinements ! Though the radical curqjj is so easy, few obtain it, because their perse-j verance ceases as soon as they experience tha wished-for relief. When business, or other circumstances, pre-*j vent the patient from adopting this plan, anti oblige him to walk or stand a good deal, still, it is possible to remove all pressure from the corn. For this purpose, from eight to twelve pieces ot linen, smeared with an emollient ointment, ana having an aperture cut in the middle, exactly adapted to the size of the corn, are to be laict over each other, and so applied to the foot, that the corn is to lie in the opening, in such a man- ner, that it cannot be touched by the shoe, oi stocking. When the 'plaster has been applied some weeks, the corn commonly disappears! without any other means. Should the corn b« in the sole of the foot, it is only necessary tif put in the shoe a felt-sole, wherein a hole ha$ been cut, corresponding to the situation, size* and figure, of the induration. * A corn may also be certainly, permanently!, and speedily eradicated, by the following methodlj especially when the plaster, and felt-sole with j: hole in it, arc employed at the same time. Thl corn is to be rubbed twice a day with an emollicn % ointment, such as that of marshmallows, or will 1 the volatile liniment, which is still better; and h the interim, is to be covered with a softening| plaster. Bvery morning and evening, the foe f is to be put for half an hour in warm water, an<j; whilst there, the corn is to be well rubbed wit; soap. Afterwards, all the soft, white, pulpy out