TETANUS. 1023 pon VI ? r i mes it even inspires him with a dread of the ,Tht of water, and a great resemblance to hy- rophobia is produced. One of the next remarkable symptoms is a ery severe pain at the bottom ot the sternum, trting from this point backward to the spine, . the direction of the diaphragm. As soon as lis pain commences, the spasms ot all the mscles about the neck become exceedingly .olent, and the head is drawn backwards, or orwards, according as the contraction of the xtensor, or flexor, muscles, happens to be congest; but, in the majority of cases', the ead and trunk are curved backwards, {Boyer, 'mite des Mol. Chir. T. 1, p. 288.) and the Detractions increasing in force, the body is fre- uently raised in the form of a bow, resting the head and feet alone; a state, which more particularly denominated opisthotonos. Rees's Cyclopaedia, art. Tetanus.) At the ame time, the muscles, which close the lower uv, and which were affected with spasm and igiditv in the very beginning of the disorder, ovv contract with great power, so as to main- ain the lower jaw-bone inseparably applied to he upper one. The last state, which has been onsidered as a particular affection under the ame of trismus, or the locked.jaxv, Boyer con- eives, mav be regarded as the pathognomonic ymptom of tetanus, which in many instances is mited to such an affection of the jaw. The muscles affected in tetanic cases are never (together relaxed, as long as the disease con- nues; but, still they become more violently ontracted in the frequent paroxysms of spasm, hich always attend the complaint, and increase s it advances. The continuance of the disease'is marked by ne increasing spasm of the diaphragm, which ow returns every ten or fifteen minutes, and is nstantlv succeeded by a stronger retraction of he head and rigidity of the muscles of the back, nd even of those of the lower extremities. The bdominal muscles are also strongly contracted, o that the belly feels as hard and tense as a >oard. Bv the violence of the contractions, ndeed, the recti muscles have been known to be acerated, as I shall relate an example of "here- fter. Sometimes the spasm and tension extend >nly to the muscles on one particular side of the <ody: the tetanus lateralis of Sauvages, and he pleurosthotonos of other nosologists. When the disease reaches its most violent tage, the flexor muscles of the head and trunk ontract so powerfully, that they counterbalance i he force of the extensors, and hold those parts n a straight, fixed, immoveable position. This ? the condition, to which the appellation of ctanus more particularly belongs. The muscles if the lower extremities become rigid ; and even he arms, which till now were little affected, also mrtake of the general spasm and stiffness, with he exception of the fingers, which often retain heir moveableness to the last. The tongue ikewise continues a long while endued with the >ower of voluntary motion ; but, at length, the 'iolent spasms do not leave it unaffected, and it is hen liable to be forcibly propelled between the where it is sometimes dreadfully lacerated. eeth. In the extreme period of the disorder, all the nusiies, destined for voluntary motion, are af- fected ; amongst others, those of the face; the forehead is drawn up into furrows; the ejres, sometimes distorted, are generally fixed and motionless in their sockets; the nose is drawn up; and the cheeks are retracted towards the the ears; so that the features undergo a most extraordinary change. When tetanus arrives at this stage, and the spasms are universal, a violent convulsion usually puts an end to the patient’s misery. Wherever the muscular contractions are si- tuated in cases of tetanus, they are always ac- companied with the most excruciating pain. They sometimes last, without any manifest re- mission, to the end of the disorder; but, in almost all cases, their violence, and the suffer- ings excited by them, undergo periodical di- minutions every minute, or two. The relaxa- tion, however, is never such ,as to let the muscles, which experience it, yield to the action of their antagonists; and it is in nearly all cases followed, in ten or twelve minutes, by a renewal of the previous contractions and suffering. The recurrence of these aggravated spasms frequently happens, without any evident cause; but, it is often determined by efforts, which the patient makes to change his posture, swallow, speak, &e. As Dr. Cullen observes, the attacks of this disease are seldom attended with any fever. When the spasms are general and violent, the pulse is contracted, hurried, and irregular; and the respiration is affected in like manner; but, during the remission, both the pulse and respira- tion usually return to their natural state. The heat of the body is commonly not increased; frequently the face is pale, with a cold sweat upon it; and, very often, the extremities are cold, with a cold sweat over the whole body. When, however, the spasms are frequent and violent, the pulse is sometimes more full and frequent, than natural; the face is flushed, and a warm sweat is forced out over the whole body. “ Although fever be not a constant attendant of this disease, especially when arising from a lesion of nerves; yet, in those cases, proceeding from cold, a fever sometimes has supervened, and is said to have been attended with in- flammatory symptoms. Blood has often been drawn in this disease; but, it never exhibits any inflammatory crust; and all accounts seem to agree, that the blood drawn seems to be of a looser texture than ordinary, and that it does not coagulate in the usual manner. “ In this disease the head is seldom affected with delirium, or even confusion of thought, till the last stage of it; when by the repeated shocks ot a violent distemper, every function of the system is greatly disordered. “ It is no less extraordinary, that in this violent disease, the natural functions are not cither immmediately, or considerably affected. Vomitings sometimes appear early in the dis- ease; but commonly they are not continued ; and it is usual enough for the appetite of hunger to remain through the whole course of the disease; and what food happens to be taken down, seems to be regularly enough digested. The excretions are sometimes affected, but not always. The urine is sometimes suppressed, or is voided with difficulty and pain. The