URETHRA. 1090 the spot to which the armed bougie is applied. (To/. 3, p. 51.) The bougie, which is passed down to prepare the way for the caustic, and measure the distance for the armed bougie must be made of soft ma- terials, that it may readily receive an impression from the part against which it is pressed, and its colour should be light, so as to admit of those impressions been more distinctly seen. With the assistance of such bougies, I am able to dis- cover the size and shape of the orifice of the stricture; to ascertain with accuracy the progress of the caustic upon it; to see whether it is on one side of the canal, or equally all round; and to apply the caustic accordingly. “ When the soft bougie passes through the stricture, by leaving it in the canal a few minutes, it can be known, whether the stricture is com- pletely destroyed or only relaxed; in the last case, there is an impression on the side of the bougie.” {Home on Strictures, vol. 1.) CURE OF STICTURES WITH THE POTASSA FUSA. Mr. Whately, in his publication on strictures, endeavours to convince the reader, that they are not merely contracted fibres of the urethra, but really diseased portions of the membrane lining that canal, with a continued disposition to in- creased contraction. Hence, this gentleman seems to conceive, that the application of a re- medy, calculated both to remove the diseased affection, and to dilate the contracted part, might perfectly cure the complaint, without putting the patient to the inconvenience of wearing a bougie. Mr. Whately affirms, that such a remedy is caustic, when judiciously used. Hitherto the lunar caustic bas been chiefly employed; but, this gentleman states, that it has been his good fortune to discover a more efficacious, and, at the same time, a less painful and hazardous re- medy for the disease in question. The potassa fusa is the application alluded to, which Mr. Whately says, if used in the manner, and with the precautions about to be described, will be found to possess singular efficacy in curing the complaint. He avows, that he has already had so much experience of it, and that he is so per- fectly convinced of its superiority over the lunar caustic, as well as over the common bougie, that he now uses it in a considerable number of the cases which come under his care. Of its safety he is also as well convinced, as of its efficacy; for, if used with circumspection, experience proves, that there is little danger of its pro- ducing any disagreeable effect. However, if the potassa fusa be applied while the parts are in a highly inflamed, or irritable state, or (as Mr. Whately expresses himself) tending to gangrene; if the habit be bad, and the patient very far advanced in years, the most mischievous effects may be expected from the application ; and the use of any kind of caustic, under such circumstances, for strictures in the urethra, is censured , as dangerous in the ex- treme. Mr. Whately represents, that if the patient be affected with fever, or any other acute disease; if he be much indisposed from any cause; if, in l,o n rmnnrrhrpn. attended with if the prepuce, glans, or any other part of the penis, or the parts adjoining to it, be swelled and inflamed; if the urethra, and especially the stric- tured part of it, be so irritable, as not to bear the touch of a bougie; the use of the caustic is for the present forbidden. Mr. Whately also enjoins great'caution in applying this remedy to persons advanced in years. Eve* when no ob- jections of the above kind exist, the caustic should not be resorted to in the first instance. Mr. Whately maintains, that in every case of stric- ture, before venturing to employ the caustic, we ought to be able to pass into the bladder a bou- gie, of at least a size larger, than one of the fipest sort. This is necessary, both to let the caustic be applied to the whole surface of the stricture, and to relieve a retention of urine, should it occur during the use of the caustic. When a bougie of the preceding description can be introduced, without occasioning pain, faintness, or great dejection of spirits, the use of caustic may commence immediately, provided none of the above described objections exist. When the urethra is very irritable, Mr. Whately recommends a common bougie to be introduced every day, and kept in the urethra; at first, for a few minutes only; but, by degrees, for a longer time; till the irritability of the parts has been sufficiently lessened. When the urethra is rendered so impervious by a stricture, that a small bougie cannot be passed into the bladder, which viscus is also in a painful inflamed state, Mr. Whately asserts, that caustic, in any form, or quantity, must not be immediately employed; but, that the stricture should be first rendered capable of allowing a bougie a little larger, than one of the finest size, to be introduced into the bladder. When this is done, the urine is more freely evacuated, and the consequent irritation and inflammation of the bladder lessened, if not removed, together with the danger of a retention of urine. Caustic may then be advantageously conveyed into the centre of the stricture. Mr. Whately considers the practice of at once thrusting down, in this sort of case, an armed bougie, considerably larger than the narrowest part of the contracted canal, as most dangerous, and horridly painful. For, says this gentleman, it frequently happens, that nearly the whole of the urethra anterior to the bulb is so much con- tracted by numerous and uncommonly rigid strictures, that, it is impossible, by any art what- ever, to dilate the passage to its natural size. If, therefore, the canal, whilst in such a state, be rudely torn open by a large caustic bougie, he- morrhage, pain, dangerous suppressions of urine, inflammation, mortification, and death itself,must sometimes inevitably ensue,—even before the caustic can be applied to the principal seat of the disease. In cases, like the one just mentioned, the first step, preparatory to the use of the caustic, should be, according to Mr. Whately, to dilate the strictured part of the urethra; for which purpose, be advises the slow and gentle introduction of a fine bougie, with its point in- clined to the lower side of the canal, in order to avoid the large lacunae, situated on its upper part. When the surgeon, by steady perseverance and dexteriiv. has succeeded in getting a fine bougie