410 EFF tuitous assertion, contradicted ly experience. I Imve already, in a very great number of cases, undertaken the cure of ectropium in the common way: the operation always succeeded as much as the degree, or other circumstances, of the dis- ease allowed; and I have not yet observed an in- stance of a relapse.” {Vaijagejail a Londres tn lSl4, ou Parallels dc la Chirurgie Angloise uvec la Chirurgie Franqoise, p. 1291.) If this new operation, however, will cure the ectropium, caused by the contraction of cicatrices, as its in- ventor describes, or produce great improvement, as the experience of Mr. Travers confirms, (Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 235.) it is clear, that, though it may not be necessary in ordinary cases, its usefulness will not be entirely lost. The contracted scar must of course be di- vided, in addition to the other proceedings. E. C. Keclc de Ectropin. Tubing. 1733. Scar- pa’s Osservazioni tulle Malattie degli Occhi, Ed. 5, cap. 6. to which writer I am chiefly indebt- ed for the preceding account of the disease. Richter’s Anjangsor. tier Wundarzneykunst, Band 2, p. 473, 3fc- Wenzel’s Manuel de L’Oculiste. Pellier, Rccueil d'Obs. sur les Maladies des Yeux. Sir W. Adams Pract. Observ. on Ectropium, or Eversion of the Eyelids, with a Description of a new operation for the cure of that Disease; on the modes of forming mi artificial pupil ; and on Cataract, 8 vo. Land. 1812. M. Bor denave, “ Mf moire dans lequel on propose un. nouveau precede pour miter le renversement des Paupieres,” in Mem. dc l’Acad. Royale de Chirurgie, T. 13, p. 156 et seq. Edit. 12mo. It ions in this memoir, that the proposal of removing a portion of the inside of the eyelid for the cure of ectropium was first made, and its efficacy illustrated by facts. Here may also he found the best historical account of the different methods of treatment, which have pre- vailed from the earliest periods cf surgery. Con- sult also Parallels de la Chirurgie Angloise avec la Chirurgie Fruncoise, par P. J. Roux, p. 289 —292; Paris, 1815. Cf. J. Beer, Lehre von den Aiigenhfankheiten, B. 2, p. 133, hfc. 8vo. Wien, 1817. Benj. Travers, Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, p. 234, 356, <fc. Svo. Land. 1820. ECZEMA, or Ecze'sma (from r/ftuj, to boil out,), is characterized by an eruption of small vesicles on various parts of the skin, usual- ly close, or crowded together, with little or no inflammation round their bases, and unattended by fever. It is not contagious. (Bateman's Sy- nopsis, P. 250, Ed. 3.) There are several va- rieties of this disease, the most remarkable of which is the eczema rubrum from the irritation of mercury. This form is attended with quickened pulse and a white tongue; but the stomach and sensorium are not materially disturbed. (See Mercury.) EFFUSION, (from effundo, to pour out.) In surgery, means the escape of any fluid out of the vessel, or viscus, naturally containing it, and its lodgment in another cavity, in the cellular substance, or in the substance of parts. Thus, when the chest is wounded, blood is sometimes effused from the vessels into the cavity of the pleura; in cases of false aneurisms, the blood passes out of the artery into the interstices of the cellular substance; in cases of fistulae in peri- ELE nzco, the urine flows from the bladder and ure* thra into the cellular membrane of the perineum and scrotum; and, when great violence is aj>- plicd to the skull, blood is often effused even in the very substance of the brain. Effusion also sometimes signifies the natural secretion of fluids from the vessels; thus surgeons frequently speak of the coagulable lymph being effused on different surfaces, (See EUravusa- tiun.) ELECTRIC1T )r. Among the aids of sur- gery, electricity once held a conspicuous and im- portant situation. It lias, however, met with a fate, not unusual with remedies too much cried up and too indiscriminately employed; that of having fallen into an undeserved degree of neg- lect. Whatever its effects may be on the system, it certainly possesses this advantage over other to- pical remedies, that it may be made to act on parts ver}' remote from the surface. Electricity, as a topical remedy, for surgical diseases, is chiefly used in, amaurosis, deafness, some chronic tumors, and abscesses, weakness from sprains, or contusions, paralvsis, &c. In cases of suspended animation, electricity is sometimes an important auxiliary for the restora- tion of the vital functions (&e J. Curry’s Obs.on Appnrnit Dea’/t, &;c. Ed. 2, 1815.) ELEVATOR. An instrument for raising depressed portions of the skull. Besides the common elevator, now generally preferred by all the best operators, several others have been invented; as, for instance, the tripod elevator, and another, which was first devised by M. J. L. Petit, and afterwards improved by M. Louis. The common elevator is an exceedingly simple instrument, being a mere lever, the end of which is somewhat bent, and made rough, in order tiiat it may less readily slip away from the piece of bone, which is to be raised. This instrument may be used by forming a fulcrum for it, either in the hand, which holds it, or upon the fingers of the other hand ; or the operator may make a fixed point for it on the edge of the opening made with the trephine, or of that, which the accidental violence has occasioned. One piece of the tripod elevator consists of three branches uniting above in one common trunk. The latter part is pervaded by a long screw, having below a kind of hook, and above a sort of handle for turning it. It was by means of the hook, drawn up by turning the screw, that the depressed portion of bone was elevated. The inventors of the tripod elevator were cer- tainly very well acquainted with the imperfections of the common one; and they endeavoured to obviate them, by procuring a firmer fulcrum, and a greater degree of power. But it was necessary to change the situation of their elevator, as often as there was occasion to raise a different portion of bone; and the hook being connected with an inflexible piece of steel, the direction of which was always the same as that of the instrument, it became troublesome ai\d difficult to place the hook under the piece of bone, which stood in need of being raised. These inconveniences induced J. L Petit to contrive a new elevator, which consisted of a