462 * FRACTURES. nius and observation, is continually bringing to light new facts. “ In a compound fracture,’’saysMr. Pott, “the first object of consideration is, whether the pre- servation ot the fractured limb can, with safety to the patient’s life, be attempted; or, in other words, whether the probable chance of destruc- tion, from the nature and circumstances of the accident, is not greater than it would be from the operation of amputation. Many things may occur to make this the case. The bone, or bones, being broken into many different pieces, and that for a considerable extent, as happens from broad wheels, or other heavy bodies of large surface, passing over, or falling on such limbs; the skin, muscles, tendons, &c. being so torn, lacerated, and destroyed, as to render gangrene and mor- tification the most probable and most immediate consequence; the extremities of the bones form- ing a joint being crushed, or as it were com- minuted, and the ligaments,' connecting such bones, being torn and spoiled, are, among others, sufficient reasons for proposing and for perform- ing immediate amputation. Reasons, which (not- withstanding any thing that may have been said to the contrary) long and reiterated experience has approved, and which are vindicable upon every principle of humanity, or chirurgic know- ledge. “ When a surgeon says, that a limb, which has just suffered a particular kind of compound fracture, ought rather to be cut offi than that any attempt should be made for its preservation, he does not mean by so saying, that it is absolutely impossible for such limb to be preserved at all events; he is not to be supposed to mean so much in general, though sometimes even that will be obvious ; all that he can truly and justly mean is, that from the experience of time it has been found, that the attempts to preserve limbs so circumstanced, have most frequently been frustrated by the death of the patients, in con- sequence of such injury; and that from the same experience it has been found, that the chance of death from amputation is by no means equal to that arising from such kind of fracture. “ Every man knows, that apparently desperate cases are sometimes cured; and that limbs so shattered and wounded, as to render amputation the only probable means for the preservation of life, are now and then saved. This is an un- controverted fact, but a fact which proves very little against the common opinion; because every man of experience also knows, that such escapes are very rare, much too rare to admit of being made precedents, and that the majority of such attempts fail. This consideration relative to amputation is of the more importance, because it most fre- quently requires immediate determination; every minute of delay is, in many instances, to the patient’s disadvantage; and every short space of time indeed, frequently makes all the differ- ence between probable safety and fatality. If these cases in general would admit of delibera- tion for two or three days, and during that time such circumstances might be expected to arise, as ought necessarily to determine the surgeon in his conduct, without adding to the patient's ha- zard, the difference would be considerable ; the former would not seem to be so precipitate in his determination, as he is frequently thought to be; and the latter, being more convinced of the ne- cessity, would submit to it with less reluctance. But, unhappily for both parlies, this is seldom the case ; and the first opportunity having been neglected or not embraced, we are frequently denied another. Here therefore the whole ex- ertion of a man’s judgment is required, that he may neither rashly and unnecessarily deprive his patient of a limb, nor, through a false tenderness and timidity, suffer him to perish, by endeavour- ing to preserve such limb. Some degree of address is also necessary upon such occasions, in order to convince the patient, that what seems to be determined upon hastily and with precipita- tion, will not safely admit of longer deliberation. “ The limb being thought capable of preserva- tion, the next consideration is the reduction of the fracture. The ease or difficulty attending this, depends not only on the general nature of the case, but on the particular disposition of the bone with regard to the wound. “ If the bone be not protruded forth, the trouble of reducing and of placing the fracture in a good position, will be much less than if the caseTe otherwise: and in the case of protrusion or thrusting forth of the bone or bones, the dif- ficulty is always in proportion to the compara- tive size of the wound, through which such bone has passed. In a compound fracture of the leg or thigh, it is always the upper part of the broken bone which is thrust forth. If the fracture be of the transverse kind, and the wound large, a mo- derate degree of extension will in genera! easily reduce it; but if the fracture be oblique, and terminates, as it often does, in a long sharp point, this point very often makes its way through a wound no longer than just to permit such exten- sion. In this case, the very placing the leg in a straight position, in order to make extension, obliges the wound or orifice to gird the bone tight, and makes all that part of it, which is out of such wound, press hard on the skin of the leg underneath it. In these circumstances, all at- tempts for reduction in this manner will be found to be impracticable ; the more the leg is stretcher! out, the tighter the bone will be begirt by the wound, and the more it will press on the skin underneath. “ Upon this occasion, it is not very unusual to have recourse to the saw, and by that means to remove a portion of the protruded bone. “ I will not say that this is always or abso- lutely unnecessary or wrong, but it most cer- tainly is frequently so. In some few instances, and in the case of extreme sharp-pointedness of the extremity of the bone, it may be, and un- doubtedly is right: but, in many instances, it is totally unnecessary. “ The two most proper means of overcoming this difficulty are, change of posture of the limb, and enlargement of the wound. In many cases, the former of these, under proper conduct, will be found fully sufficient; and where it fails, the latter should always be made use of. Whoever will attend to the effect, which putting the leg or thigh (having a compound fracture and pro- truded bone) into a straight position always pro- duces ; that is, to the manner in which the wound in such position girds the bone, and to l'ic creased difficulty of reduction thereby induced,