INFLAMMATION. 702 produce an increased velocity of the blood’s mo- tion, and a contraction of the blood-vessels. During this state of excitement, the part affected is so far irom giving any thing, like the appear- ances of inflammation, that the size of the vessels is diminished, and the part paler. But, if the stimulus be long continued, or increased in power, the small vessels, which in the natural state, ad- mit only of one series of globules, become so di- lated, as to allow an accumulation.of a mgeh less fluid and redder blood in them, which loses its globular appearance, and moves much more slorely, than that which previously passed through the vessels. The part now appears inflamed. If the stimulus be removed, the vessels do not soon regain their original state; time is necessary to allow them to recover their contractile power, so as to prevent the impetus, with which the blood is propelled by the heart and larger ar- teries from keeping up the dilated state of the ca- pillaries. Here then we are obliged to admit, with Boerhaave, that there is an error loci; for, a denser and redder blood passes into small ves- sels, which before carried much more fluid con- tents ; but the error loci does not cause the in- flammation, but results from the previously wea- kened state of the capillaries. In this manner, the blood may occasionally be extravasated in in- flammation, without any actual rupture of a ves- sel, for the exhalants may be so weakened, and dilated, as to allow globules to pass through them. “ If the stimulus, which produces the inflam- mation, be of a very acrid nature, debility of the vessels is frequently induced without any previous excitement. The blood in all the smaller vessels becomes very red, circulates very slowly, and in some vessels stagnates. “ The application of a stimulus, different from that, which produced inflammation, will some- times bring on resolution. When this occurs, the dilated vessels contract; they no longer con- tain a red, dense homogeneous fluid, but again receive biood, consisting of small, nearly colour- less globules, which float in a colourless fluid; and the motion of these globules at length be- comes as quick as before the inflammation took place. If, however, the inflammation proceed, the blood becomes nearly stagnant; it continues very red, and the vessels are much dilated. “ When this high degree of inflammation is not relieved, sphacelus ensues. The part then feels softer to the finger, and gives way with less force. The vessels are much dilated, the blood does not move, it loses its red colour, and becomes of a yellowish brown hue. The separation of the dead from the living part takes place soon after this change in the colour of the blood. “ Whilst the ulceration, produced by this se- paration of the dead from the living part of the web is healing, the capillary vessels, distributed on the ulcerated surface, and the contiguous parts, are much distended with arterial red blood, which is moved very slowly. When the ulcera- tion is healed, the vessels become contracted, and circulate the fluid, with the same degree of velo- city, as before the inflammation was excited. “ With respect to the seat of inflammation, it may be observed, that the capillaries are Jirst affected; but even the small arteries of the web are also occasionally distended.’ (Hastings on Inflammation of Ihc. .Mucous Membrane oj the Lungs, Sfc. p. HO—32.) VV iih respect to the doctrine, espoused by some pathologists, that the smaller branches of veins are the exclusive seat of inflammation, the same author observes, that the microscope shews us, that the most minute arterial branches, though far less numerous, are equally affected with weak- ness and distention. In the course of Dr. Hastings’s inquiry, it is proved, that the healthy circulation of the blood essentially depends upon a due degree of action in the vessels throughout the system ; that the ap- plication of stimuli, whilst it increases the ac- tion of the vessels, produces none of the sym- ptoms of inflammation. When, however, the excessive action of these stimuli has impaired the excitability of the small vessels, the phenomena of inflammation are fully manifested ; and when their excitability is restored, the infiammation subsides. It may be logically inferred, there- fore, says this writer, that infiammation consists in a weakened action of the capillaries, by which the equilibrium between the larger and smaller, vessels is destroyed, and the latter become dis- tended. And, with respect to the conclusion, drawn by Dr. Thomson from his experiments, that inflammation, in moderate degrees, consists in an increased action of the vessels, Dr. Has- tings argues, that the writer’s belief in the ex- citement cl' the capillaries, in some cases of in- flammation, arises from his having denominated that a state of inflammation, which ought not to be so called. “ The application of the salt, (says Dr. Thomson) produced an increased velocity in the dilated larger and smaller arteries and capillary vessels, to which it was more im- mediately applied. In nine experiments, the . phenomena of which I have minutely recorded, the application of the salt was not only followed by a bright red colour, visible to the naked eye, and a sensible enlargement of the arterial and venous branches, but with an increased rapidity of circulation in the capillary vessels; the glo- bules becoming less distinct, than before the ap- plication of the salt, and obviously less distinct,' from the rapidity of their motion, than the glo- bules in the capillary vessels in the uninliamed part of the web in the same animal. The re- peated application, however, of the salt to the same vessels, was always sooner, or later fol- lowed by retarded capillary circulation, or even by complete stagnation." (See Thomson's Lec- tures, p. 68.) The results of other experiments, made by this gentleman, and which coincide with the sentiments of Dr. W. Philips and Dr. Hast- ings, need not here be cited. Now, with regard to those experiments, which seemed to Dr. Thomson to justify the inference, that moderate degrees of inflammation may be attended with an increased velocity of the blood in the inflamed vessels, Dr. Hastings, as I have already said, objects, that the appearances seen, ’ while such velocity of the circulation presented itself in the vessels affected, ought not to have * been denominated inflammation; because “ it - constantly happened in his own experiments, that when inflammation commenced, no globules could be seen even in the blood of the affected vessels. It was universally converted into a bright red homogenous fluid. So that globules O w