MOLLITIEJ wc much shorter than in their natural state, and more firm and tense; while those on the op- posite side were much elongated, thin, and very tender; in short, the whole muscular system had suffered more or less, according to the action of the muscles in her lifetime. 2. The bones were entirely dissolved, the periosteum remaining un- hurt, so that they exhibited only the form of a cylinder, o. The heart and large blood-vessels, both veins and arteries, contained large black polypi, of a viscid consistence, and very unlike those usually found in dead bodies. A case of softness of the bones is related by 3Ir. Gooch, but considerably different from the above, as it was attended with a remarkable fra- gility of them before they became soft. It like- wise" began with pains through the whole body, attended with feverish symptoms; but, after some weeks, these pains were confined chiefly to the legs and thighs, and they were not increased by pressure. This fragility of the bones does not appear to have been the case with Madame Supiot. In the month of June, 1749, Mr. Gooch’s patient broke her leg in walking from her bed to a chair, and heard the bone snap. No c.dlus, however, formed, though the fracture was instantly reduced, and treated by one of the best surgeons in her part of the country; but, instead of this, the bones began to grow flexible, and, in a few months, were so from the knee to the ankle, 'i he disease still continued to increase, so that, in a short time, the other leg and thigh were affected in the same manner, after which both legs and thighs became cedematous, liable to excoriations, and to discharge a thin yellow ichor. Scorbutic symptoms began to appear in the winter after the leg was broken, and her gums began to bleed. Tonic medicines were ex- hibited without any success, except that her men- struation became more regular, and her appetite and digestion better than before; but, towards the end of her life, her breathing became dif- ficult, the spine distorted, and a pain in the loins took place upon every motion of the ver- tebra: : and as her limbs were now quite useless, she was obliged to sit upright in bed. At last, the ends of the bones, on which she sat, having become also very soft, spread much, and the ends of her fingers and thumbs, by frequent en- deavours to raise herself, became also very broad, and the phalanges crooked. The flexibility of the bones gradually increased, and became more general, attended with a wasting of the flesh, and excessive difficulty of breathing. The menstrual flux totally ceased four months before her death; her legs, which were very anasareous, and ex- coriated almost all over, became erysipelatous ; but she retained her senses to the last. She ex- pired suddenly, having talked in a composed manner concerning her miserable situation and approaching end only a few moments before. On examining the body, she was found to have lost two feet two inches of her natural stature. The heart and lungs appeared sound, but had been much confined, principally by the liver, which was enlarged in an extraordinary degree; it was not, however, scirrhous, nor in any other way diseased. 'I lie spleen was very small, and the mesentery had one large scirrhous gland. All the bones, except the teeth, were softened, so that scarcely any of them could resist the knife; ! OSSIUM. 811 but those of the lower extremities were the most dissolved, being changed into a kind of paren- cliymous substance, like soft dark-coloured liver, without any offensive smell. So completely, in- deed, were they decomposed, that the knife met with less resistance in cutting through them than in sound muscular flesh, though some bony lamelhe were here and there to be met with, but as thin as an egg-shell. The most compact bones, and those which contained the greatest quantity of marrow, were the most dissolved; and it was observable, that the dissolution began internally, for the bony laminae remained here and there on the outside, and nowhere else. The periosteum was rather thicker than ordinary, and the cartilages thinner; but not in a state of dissolution. The bones were found to contain a great quantity of oily matter and little earth. No cause could be assigned for the disease; and in the case of Madame Supiot, the one assigned, viz. that of her eating too much salt, seems totally inadequate to explain the origin of the disorder. All the cases of mollifies ossium on record have proved fatal, and no means of cure are yet known. For additional observations, connected with this subject, refer to Fragilitas Ossium and Rickets. Boyer and Richerand treat of the mollifies ossium, and rickets, as one and the same disease. But, as Mr. Wilson observes, the first differs from rickets, in attacking people of middle age, or rather older, and not particularly children ; and it differs also in the change, pro- duced in the bones themselves, which, when dried, do not appear as if they had been long steeped in weak acid, with their animal part nearly un- changed ; but both the phosphat of lime and the animal matter appear to have been absorbed, so as to leave mere shells, which are also softer than natural bone of the same thickness. Mr. Wilson further informs us, that large cavities are met with in the substance of the bones, and some- times communicate with the soft parts surround- ing them. In some of these cavities is contained oily matter, like boiled marrow; and in others, masses of coagulated blood, and a soft inorganic animal substance. (J. Wilson on the Bones, Qc. p. 253. Acrel, Diss. Dcscriptioncm ct Casus aliquot Osteomalacia sistens; Up sal, 1788. Morand in Journ. dcs Savans, 1792, ct Mem. del'Acad, dcs Sciences, 1752. Morand, junr. in Mem. dc VAcad, dcs Sciences, 1764, p. 206. See also T. Lambert, Relation dc la Maladie dc Bernard d’Annagnac, stir vn Ramollissemcnt dcs Os; Toulouse, 1700. Fer- nclius, in lib. dc abditis rerum causis. Th. Bartliolinus, Hist. Anat. Cent. 4. Petit, Histoire dc l'Acad, dcs Sciences, 1722. Hoin, ibid. 1764. Gagliardi, Anatomcs Ossium. Roma, 1789. C. G. Ludwig, Programme, quo observata in scctionc Cadaveric Famines cujus ossa cmollita erant proponit; Lips. 1757. Fries, Dissert, dc Emollitionc Ossium; Argen- tor. 1775, Thompson, in Med. Observat ions and Inquiries, Vol. 5, p. 259. Chirnrgical Ob- servations and Cases, by William Bramjield, Vol. 2, p. 50, Sfc. Boyer, Trait c dcs Maladies Chir. T. 3, p. 607, 8pc. Paris, 1814. Riche- rand, Nosogr. Chir. T. 3, p. 142. What these two writers say, however, chiefly relates to rickets. We meet with cases of Mollitics