AMPUTATION. 61 skin and muscles to be drawn upwards, and bound light with a broad bandage, a little above the part, where the incision is to be made. This tillet was intended to answer a threefold purpose: 1st, to afford a quantity of ilesh for covering the bone, and facilitating the cure, ydly, To close the extremities of the divided blood-vessels. Sdly, To dull the patient’s feel- ings, by pressure on the subjacent nerves. When this firm ligature has been applied, Pare directs an incision to be made down to the bone, either with a common large scalpel, or a curved knife. Then, with a smaller curved knife, we are care- fully to divide the muscle, or ligament, remaining between the bones of the fore-arm, or leg ; after which, we may proceed to saw off the bone as high as possible, and to remove the asperities, occasioned by the saw. “ With the assistance of -a curved pair of forceps, he drew out the extremities of the bleed- ing arteries, either by themselves alone, or with some portion of the surrounding fles^, to be firmly tied with a strong double thread. He now loosened his bandage, brought together the lips of the wound over the face of the stump, and kept them as close as he could, without actual stretching, by means of four stitches, or sutures. If the larger tied vessels should accidentally become loose, he desires the ligature, or bandage, to be again passed round the limb; or, else, what is better, to let an assistant gripe the limb firm with both hands, and press with his fingers over the course of the bleeding vessel, so as to stop the hemorrhage; then, with a square edged needle, about four inches long, and a thread, four times doubled, the surgeon must secure the artery in the following manner. Thrust the armed needle into the outside of the flesh, half a finger’s breadth from the vessel which bleeds, andbring it out at the same distance from the bleeding orifice; then surround the vessel with the ligature, pass it back again to within one finger’s breadth of the place, where it first en- tered, and tie a fast knot upon a folded slip of linen rag, to prevent its hurting the flesh. By this means, says Paro, the orifice of the artery will be agglutinated to the adjoining flesh so lirml v, as not to yield one drop of blood : but. if the hemorrhage were not considerable, he con- tented himself with the application of astringent powders, &c. “ Thus did this famous surgeon endeavour, by his single example and precepts, to exclude the barbarous use of hot irons in amputation. He says, he knew not of any such practice among the old surgeons; except that Galen recommended us to tie bleeding vessels, towards their orig n, in accidental wounds: and he thought proper to do the same in cases of amputation.' But, in an apology, at the end of his book, Pare has quoted, in his own defence, a dozen authors, who employed or recommended the ligature before him; and he might have cited many more. “ rrom the statement we have here given, it may be seen how far the best writers of almost every country have erred in ascribing the ori- gmal invention of tying arteries to Ambrose are. Great merit, indeed, was due to him, for | ® l)arl he l°°k in extending, and even reviving th,s '"comparable practice: nay, it is not ctrluin, whether any me before him hail ever applied the needle and ligature in similar cases, i. c. ajier amputation ; but how very wide of the truth Mr. John Bell’s recent account of this matter is, will appear to every person, who will inquire into the facts themselves; for not only were ligatures and needles in use among the ancients, but likewise the tenuculum, or hook to lay hold of the bleeding vessels, when they had buried themselves in the muscles. We refer our in- quisitive readers to Avicenna, iEtius Albucacis. Brunus, Theodoric, Guido di (Jaulia'o, John de Vigo, L. Bertapaelia, Tagaultius, Petrus Ar- gillata, Andreas a Cruce, &c. &c. where they will find enough to satisfy them on this head.” (Reeds Cyclopu'dia, art. Ampul utiov.) I shall not here expatiate upon the ill-treat- ment, which Pare experienced from the base and ignorant Gourmelin ; nor upon the slowness and reluctance, with which the generality of surgeons renounced the cautery for the ligature. These cir- cumstances may be conceived from what has been already stated. Suffice to add, upon the authority of Dionis, that, almost 100 years after Pare, a button of vitriol was ordinarily employed in the Hotel Dieu at Paris for the stoppage of he- morrhage in amputation. And Dionis was the first Frenchman, who openly taught and recom- mended Pare’s method. This however happened towards the close of the i 7th century, while Pare lived towards the end of the 16th (Dionis Cours d’Operal. Paris 1707.) As Pare, like the rest of the old surgeons, used to cut directly down to the bone, many of the stumps, which he made, must have been badly covered with flesh, and ill-fitted for bearing pressure. But, all that I have read on the sub- ject of amputation impresses me with a strong conviction, that, in former times, the projection of the end of the bone, the sugar-loaf form of the stump, the frequent exfoliations, and the difficulty in healing the part, and keeping it healed, were as much owing to the mischief done with the cautery, the rude way of dressing the stump, and ignorance of the right method of promoting union by the first intention, as to the mode of operating, or any other circumstance. By many surgeons, however, the tying of ar- teries continued to be deemed too troublesome, and hence, they persisted in the barbarous use of the actual cautery : of this number were Pigrai, (Epitome des Pi£ce]t<s de Med. d de Chir. 8io. Rouen, 1642.) F. Plazzoni, (De Vuhu Scloptt. 4to Venet. 1618.) and P. M. Rossi, (t ovsult. et Ohserv. 8vo. Franc of. 1616.) Nay, so diffi- cult was it to eradicate the blind attachment to the ancients, that Theodorus Baronius, a profes- sor at Cremona, publicly declared iti 1609, that he would rather err with Galen, than follow the advice of any other person; andVanHoorne seems even to have countenanced the detestable machine of Botalb. (MixfOTtyva, p. 75.) What, asks Briinninghausen, was the reason why the ligature of the arteries, which is now re- garded by the surgeons of all civilized nations, as the best, easiest, and safest method ol stopping hemorrhage after amputation, should so long have remained unndopted? Besides the prejudice for the opinions of the ancients, already mentioned, another cause was undoubtedly the imperfect knowledge of the circulation of the blood, a cor-