287 CATARACT. says Mr. Travers) we can hardly judge of the axture of the lens.’’ But, in such examples, the lens is commonly diminished in bulk; it ndergoes a waste after the opacity of the cap- ale so as in process of time to become a mem- ranous cataract. This I conceive to be owing i the obliteration of the vessels of the capsule, om which those of the lens are derived. When e capsular opacity is congenital, it is either irely capsular, or only a very small piece of as remains. When the capsule turns opaque am injury, the lens is soon greatly reduced in ilk, as appears from the falling in, or concavity the-iris, which loses its support, and is demon- i -ated in the operation. This observation ren- rs the operation with the needle appropriate to e cataract, in which the capsule is opaque, in ses which are not very recent.’’ (Med. Clirr. -<«ns. Vol. 4, p. 286.) The anterior capsular :araet, maybe known by its light grey, and in lie places, completely chalk-white colour, in- - sectcd by shining, mother-of-pearl-like streaks d spots. As the capsule is at the same time kker, than natural, the posterior chamber is sened, and the cataract is not unfrequently se to the uvea, especially when the lens has also npletely lost its transparency. In this stage, movements of the iris are likewise rendered 5 quick, and the shadow at the margin of the id is entirely absent. Hence, vision is not y hurt, but quite impeded, in regard to any rect sensation of light, whether tlie patient be t light, or shady situation; and frequently a :t light is completely invisible to him. Hie posterior capsular cataract belongs to the :r forms of the disease of the eye, but, says :ir, when it happens, the lens always partici- is in the opacity much more quickly, than oc- s in the anterior capsular cataract. Hence, disease can never be observed up to its per- developement. Respecting the state of the , some difference prevails between the state- lt of Beer and that of Mr. Travers : the lat- gentleman informs us, that where the opacity :he posterior capsule is met with, w hich he :es with Beer in considering as very rare, the and anterior capsule are usually transparent ; id when this is not the case, and the cataract pes with a post(»rior fold of opaque capsule, always accompanied with a considerable dis- ge of vitreous humour.” (Synapsis of the tases of the Eye, p. 209.) And, in speaking ; ! || ;C opacity of the posterior capsule, in anoiher c, he informs us, that he has not observed, , in this case, the lens undergoes any dimi- on. (Med. Cliir. Trans. Vol. 4, p. 286.) : the anterior capsular cataract, it is denoted i whitish-grey, unequal variegated colour; r no light coloured, chalk-white spots and ■iks are ever discernible, which while the lens ■ ns its transparency, may be owing to the di- ■ 'e of the cataract from the pupil. However, fpacity situated behind the pupil, always s concave, when the eye is inspected, not before, but from every side of it. While Josterior half of the capsule is not completely ue, the lens is not materially affected; the ight is only more or less weakened ; and ■times, especially with the aid of a magnifying pupil. This species of cataract has not itself any influence over the motions of the iris, ahd after the lens becotnesJapaque, it is not softened. '1 hough the complete capsular cataract is not the rarest species of genuine cataract, it cannot be said to be very common. In addition to the symptoms of the anterior capsular cataract, it presents few, yet decided characters, which indi- cate it previously to an operation : viz. the iris is nearly motionless, the cataract lying close to that organ ; the posterior chamber for the same reason is effaced ; and an inexperienced surgeon might really suppose the anterior portion of the capsule were adherent to the uvea, unless he con- vinced himself of the contrary by producing an artificial dilatation of the pupil with hyosciamus, or belladonna. Sometimes, the iris even seems thrust out, by this large cataract, towards the cor- nea in a convex form; and the patient can only perceive the strongest kinds of light. The third species of genuine cataract is the cataracta Morgugniana, which some term the milk cataract, and others confound with the puru- lent cataract. It is one of the rarest forms of the disease; so rare indeed, that Mr. Travers regards the case as purely hypothetical. (Synopsis of Diseases of the Eye, p. 208.) The following is the form of disease, described by Beer, under this name ; it proceeds from a total con- version of the lens into a milky fluid, or thin jelly, frequently attended with a complete capsu- lar cataract. Its origin is said to be always quick,, and an immediate effect of chemical injuries of the eye, especially, those produced by the gases formed when a metal is oxydated by a mineral acid. The following are the symptoms of the case, while it is uncomplicated with disease of the lens and capsule; a state, which can never continue long. Though the colour is milk- white, it is delicate and thin, like that of diluted milk. The whole pupil seems cloudy, but whenever the eye-ball moves suddenly and violently, or the eye lid is rubbed over the eye, the opaque sub- stances change their shape and position. The posterior chamber is nearly annihilated, which may be owing to the quantity of fluid, or gelati- nous substance collected. While the lens and cap- sule are not materially changed, the sight suffers only a diminution, though it is very cloudy, and small objects cannot be distinguished at all. When, however, the lens and capsule become opaque, vision is quite abolished, a certain power of knowing light from darkness only remaining Not unfrequently, says Beer, when the lens itself is in a dissolved state, the capsule is partially opaque, the eye is kept quiet for a few minutes, and the patient stands or sits in an upright pos- ture, two rows of opaque matter can be plainly seen ; the upper being the least white of the two; the lower presenting a chalky whiteness. How- ever, as soon as the patient suddenly or violently moves his eye, or head, or the eye lid is rubbed over the eye, both these rows of opaque matter disappear, and the colour of the opacity behind the pupil again seems uniform. mine cataract, de- The fourth species of _ scribed by Beer, is the capsulo-lenlicnlar cataract, a ^ a to which he conceives the liquor of Morgagni in a tolerable degree of vision is enjoyed, not- an altered state may likewise often contribute, as itanding the considerable opacity behind the may be inferred from the prodigious size of Ibis