32 AMAUROSIS. dental determination of blood, though never quite suddenly. At last all power of discerning the light is abolished, under incessant stupifying hcadachs, which are sometimes weaker, some- times stronger, and are attended with a sensa- tion, as if the dimensions of the eye were in- creased, and indeed, it really feels harder, than in the healthy state. All those circumstances, which produce a long and repeated determination of blood to the head and eyes, must be considered as the principal causes of this kind of amaurosis. Beer especially adverts to the habit of sleeping at night with the head low, in individuals who retire early to rest, and with their arms extended above their head. Here also the observations are nearly all appli- cable, which have been already delivered respect- ing the effects of immoderately exerting the eye- sight and intellects, and concerning the too great irritation of the eye by the light in typhoid fe- vers. Nor, in the etiology of this species of amaurosis, should what has been stated about idiosyncrasies be forgotten. (Le/ire von den Au- genkr. p. 483—85.) While the first stage has not yet terminated, and consequently while the power of vision is not obliterated, if the patient can and will put him- self without delay into the requisite condition for the cure, a favourable prognosis may invariably be given. But the prognosis is much less pro- mising, when the second stage has already begun, or is threatening to begin, and consequently when the power of seeing is either completely or nearly destroyed, notwithstanding the blindness may not be of more than two days’ standing ; particularly, if the patient cannot immediately have the best assistance. However, some slight hope of a re-establishment of sight may al- ways be entertained, even though the amaurosis be complete, if it be not of long standing. But when the disorder has existed several months, it is hardly ever practicable to do more than restore a very partial degree of vision. When, in typhus fever, this amaurosis has been brought on alto- gether by the immoderate irritation of the light, Beer has constantly found the case quite irre- mediable, the general debility, which often lasts so long after typhus, having no slight share in the prevention of a cure. The prognosis is most favourable, when the amaurosis depends upon some idiosyncrasy which is known, and can be at once removed; and very discouraging is the prospect of relief, when manj' different causes are concerned in the production of the com- plaint : while that true sympathetic amaurosis, which arises not merely from over exertion of the eye, but also from great and immoderate mental application, is very serious, both with respect to the fate of the eye itself, and the life of the patient, amaurosis, under these circum- stances, being not unfrequently the forerunner of impairment of the intellects, or absolute mania. (Beer. vo1. cit. p. 486.) As in this species of amaurosis, a determina- tion of blood-to the head and eyes is never alto- gether absent, and has generally had a great share in the first production of the complaint, it must be self-evident, that during thewhole course of the disease, every thing.should be rigorously ayoided which can tend lo bring.on such deter- mination of blood, or disturbance of the circula- tion ; and, when these states already exist, no pains must be spared to lessen and remove them. Hence, when general plethora prevails, venesec- tion, especially in the foot, is the earliest indica- tion ; and, iff this be not effectual, and the local plethora in the head and eyes still continues, topi- cal bleeding with leeches, &c. must be practised. But, if no signs of universal plethora exist, and there be merely a determination of blood to the head and eyes, local bleeding will be sufficient. At the same time, bathing the feet in lukewarm water, containing salt, or mustard, or applying sinapisms of mustard to the calves, and using gentle opening clysters, aperient medicines, cool- ing drinks, and a strict vegetable diet, will very much contribute to lessen the determination of blood, and any existing impetuosity of the circu- lation. These antiphlogistic curative means must be aided by keeping the eyes in a natural, yet complete state of rest, and in particular by keep- ing the whole body quiet in the recumbent pos- ture, with the irritation of what would otherwise be only an ordinary degree of light, constantly diminished. Nay, in typhoid patients, attacked with this form of amaurosis, the interception of the light by blinds and eye-screens, or a light fine linen bandage, will be of itself effectual to arrest the disorder at once, and prevent blindness, unless the first stage be already too far advanced. When the most careful adoption of the foregoing means is only followed by an imperfect and slow return of vision, the treatment is to be aided by cold bathing of the eye, in practising which care must be taken not to let the patient’s head lean for- wards. According to Beer, the S3unpathetic amau- rosis, unaccompanied by any appearance of or- ganic disease, and brought on by immoderate exertion of the brain, always demands, in its first stage, not only local, but general antiphlogistic treatment, even though no particular plethora may be present. When the surgeon meets with this species of amaurosis in the second stage, local fluid stimu- lants, and tonic remedies, must first be gradually employed. These are to be applied, partly by rubbing them upon the eyebrow, and partly in the form of the vapour of aether directed imme- diately against the eve. An attempt must also be made to restore the sensibility of the optic nerve, by rubefacients, and, if these be unavail- ing, by such means as occasion a shock of the vessels and nerves. V\ hen, however, it is clear that liniments and vapours of tether are quite ineffectual, these local measures must be com- bined with suitable general means: a light nutri- tious diet; an allowance of wine and beer; daily exercise in the open air, particularly in sunshiny meadows, until the patient be rather fatigued ; the slow ascent of hilly places ; the exercise of pumping or sawing wood in winter; bathing in mineral steel waters, See. and the empirical use of antiparalytic and tonic remedies, amongst which latter, however, steel medicines are to be employed with the greatest circumspection. ( Brer, Lvhrc von den Augenh. (■. 2. 487 —88.) 2. Of the genuine uncomplicated amaurosis, which arises from (what Beer denominates) preterna- tural depression of the vitality (sensibility) of the oplic nerve. According to Beer, this amaurosis differs from