1070 ULCERS, swe motions of the limb arc apt to occur, and ful by warm t? con- extend to various other parts. Sir E. Home refers this symptom to irritation, communicated along the course of the nerves, and pruducin an action in them, attended with a violent traction of the muscles, which they supply. When the above-mentioned signs of un irrita- ble ulcer are not present, we must form a judg- ment of the nature of the sore from listening to the history of the case, the effects of various applications, &c. When this kind of information cannot be obtained, Sir E. Home recommends the treatment to begin on the supposition of the ulcer being of an irritable nature. When an ulcer occurs just over the malleolus externus, it is generally of an irritable kind, in consequence of the nature of the part on which it is situated, quite independently of any consti- tutional or local disposition to irritability. Sir E. Home conceives, that the periosteum, which here lies immediately under the skin, becomes the seat of the ulcer, is the cause of its being very difficult to heal, and gives it the irritable appearance. The fact that sores, situated on the ligament of the patella, and over the peri- osteum of the anterior surface of the tibia, as- sume a similar appearance, and are equally diffi- cult to heal, made the above gentleman more confirmed in his sentiment. In treating ulcers in general, the surgeon will find it exceedingly advantageous to be acquainted with the effects of a great many external appli- cations; for a very few cases will continue to heal bevond a certain time, without some altera- tion in the treatment. The necessity of chan- ging the applications, after they have been conti- nued for a certain time, is strikingly illustrated by the fact, that leaving off a powerful applica- tion, and employing one, which at first would have had no effect, often does a great deal of service. Vvffien the change is made to a medi- cine of powers equal to those of the previous one, the benefit will be more lasting, than in the preceding circumstance. Sir E. Home compares the principle of this occurrence with that by which change of air, even of a very salubrious air, for one that is less so, often produces an infinite improvement of the health. applications; and lie slates, (hat the sores alluded to are generally attended with a mottled purple discoloration of the limb, for some way from them, and a coldness of the lower part of the leg, and that they are often disposed to mortify, which event is promoted by warmth. 2. As for moist applications, the poultice made of linseed meal, is the most simple, and most easily made; and, as it does not necessarily require any addition of oil, is to be preferred, when this disagrees with the sore. Sir E. Home does not say much in favour of the use of the extract of lead in poultices; for, though he allows that it often answers very well, he adds, that it also frequently disagrees with the ulcer, and, if long used, is apt to bring on the lead-colic. A decoction of poppy-beads is said to be a very good liquor for making poultices. The carrot-poultice is also found to agree with a great many irritable sores. The great objection to poultices, in these cases, being the weight of such applications, the limb should always, if possible, rest upon the OF APPLICATIONS TO IRRITABLE I) LCERS. 1. Sir E. Home recommends applications, in the form of vapour, as being particularly useful, by their quality of allaying irritation, and sooth- ing pain. The steam of warm tvater is productive of benefit in this way, though seldom used by itself. Its "ood effects arc increased when it is mixed b # with spirits Sir E. Home speaks also in favour of the benefit derived from fomentations containing opium ; such as the tincture of opium sprinkled on flannel, wrung out of warm water; or the application of flannels, wet with a warm solution of the extract of opium, or with a decoction of poppv heads. A decoction ol chamomile flow- ers, the tops of wormwood, or hemlock leaves, may also be employed for the same purpose. Sir E. Home points out particular irritable ulcers, however, which arc rendered more pain- poultice, and not the poultice upon the limb, When the weight cannot be avoided, and is hurtful, a lighter application should be chosen. If poultices he employed, their use is to Le continued as long as the granulations are small, and the ulcer is rapidly diminishing in size, ard this even till the cicatrization is complete. When the granulations become large, and loose in their texture, poultices should be ieft off. When tiie weight of poultices prohibits their use, Sir E. Home advises the trial of lint, dip- ped in one of the following lotions, and covered with a pledget of some simple ointment: a so- lution of the extract of opium ; a decoction of poppies; the tincture of opium ; a decoction of cicuta ; the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus ; or a weak solution of the argentum nitratum. :3. Powdered applications are generally too stimulating for irritable ulcers. Carbon lias been found useful; so has powdered extract of opium, mixed with an equal quantity of carbon, or lin- seed flour. However, opium occasionally affects the constitution, in consequence of absorption, and it has been known to excite violent inflam- mation, ending in mortification. 4. Ointments are not often proper applica- tions for irritable ulcers, as they are always, more or less, rancid, and generally disagree with the skin of persons most subject to such dis- eases. Sir E. Home mentions cream as being a very useful application, particularly in cases, in which warmth is found to do harm. 'Ihe same gen- tleman recommends, as a substitute for it, an ointment composed of hog’s lard, purified by being repeatedly washed in spring water, and then mixed with a small quantity of white wax, and rose water. The observations, made respecting solutions of lead, apply to the unguentum cerussaa acetatic. ■ 5. The pressure of bandages is generally hurtful to irritable sores, though a slight degree of it proves serviceable to certain ulcers, which are somewhat loss irritable, and arise tiom weak- ness.