EAU. 399 like a small silkworm in shape. This event took place after very acute pain in the same ear, the forehead and temples. She added, that since this, she had been tormented with the same pains, at different intervals, and so severely, that she often swooned away for two hours together. On recovering from this state, a small worm was dis- charged, of the same shape as, but much smaller than) the preceding one, and she was now af- flicted with deafness and insensibility on the same side. After hearing this relation, Valsalva no longer entertained any doubt of the membrane of the tympanum being ulcerated. He proposed the employment of an injection, in order to de- stroy such worms as yet remained. For this purpose, distilled water of St. John s wort, in which mercury had been agitated, was used. In order to prevent a recurrence of the inconveni- ence, Morgagni recommends the affected ear to : be closed up when the patient goes to sleep, in autumn and summer. If this be not done, flies, attracted by the suppuration, enter the meatus s auditorius, and, while the patient is inconscious, deposit their eggs in the ear. Acrel, in speak- ing of worms, generated in the meatus audito- rius, observes, that there is no better remedy for them, than the decoction of ledum palustre, in- jected into the ear, several times a day. How- ever, as this plant cannot always be procured, an infusion of tobacco in oil of almonds may be used, a few drops of which are to be introduced into the ear, and retained there by means of a little bit of cotton. This application, which is : not injurious to the lining of the passage, is fatal t to insects, and especially to worms. It will an- swer in cases where caterpillars, ants, earwigs, and other insects, have insinuated themselves into the meatus auditorius; though it is generally considered better first to endeavour to extract them. A piece of lint, smeared with honey, often suffices for this purpose, and when they cannot be extracted by this simple means, they may be taken out with a small pair of forceps. I The latter method serves also for the extraction of cherry-stones, peas, or other seeds, which aave been introduced into the meatus auditorius. If such substances should make too much resist- ance, forceps with stronger blades for breaking the extraneous bodies must be employed, and then the fragments are to be extracted piecemeal. But, in these cases, before attempting the extrac- tion, a little oil of almonds should be injected. ! The presence of foreign bodies in the ear often occasions the most extraordinary symptoms, as we may see in the fourth observation of Fabri- :ius Hildanus, Cent. 13. After four surgeons, who had been succes- sively consulted, had in vain exerted all their ndustry to extract a bit of glass from the left :ar of a young girl, the patient found herself ibandoned to the most excruciating pain, which >oon extended to all the side of the head, and which, after a considerable time, wa3 followed by i paralysis of the left side, a dry cough, suppres- uon of the menses, epileptic convulsions, and, at ength, an atrophy of the left arm. Hildanus mred her, by extracting the piece of glass, which ud remained eight years in her ear, and had ieen the cause of all this disorder. Although • e extraction must have been very difficult, it does not appear that Hildanus found it necessary to practise an incision behind the ear, assome au- thors have advised, and amongst them, Duverney, who has quoted the foregoing case. We must agree with Lesehevin, that such an incision does not seem likely to facilitate the object very ma- terially ; for, it must be on the outside of the extraneous substance, which is in the bony part of the canal. The incision enables us, in some measure, to avoid the obliquity of the passage, as Duverney has observed; but it is not such obliquity of the cartilaginous portion of the canal, that can be a great impediment; for, as it is flexible, it may easily be made straight, by draw- ing upward the external ear. Hence, Fabricius ab Aquapendente rejected this operation, first proposed by Paulus iEgineta; and it is justly disapproved of by Lesehevin. (Prix de l’Acad, de Chir. Tom. 9, p. 147, Edit. \‘2mo.) Sabatier relates a case, in which a paper ball, which had been pushed into the meatus auditorius, made its way by ulceration into the cavity of the tympanum, where an abscess formed, which com- municated with the interior of the cranium.— (Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 7, p. 8.) 6. Meatus Auditorius obstructed with thickened, or hardened Cerumen. The cerumen, secreted in the meatus au- ditorius by the sebaceous glands, frequently accumulates there in large quantities, and be- coming harder and harder, at length acquires so great a degree of solidity as entirely' to deprive the patient of the power of hearing. Galen has remarked, e numero corum qua mea- turn obstruunt, sordes esse quee. in auribus ealligi solent. This species of deafness is one of those kinds, which are the most easy of cure, as is confirmed by observers, especially Duverney'. Formerly frequent injections, either with simple olive oil, or oil of almonds, were recommended. The injection was retained by a piece of cotton, and when there was reason to believe that the matter was sufficiently softened, an attempt was made to extract it by means of a small scoop- like instrument. Various experiments were made by Haygarth, at Chester, in 1769, from which it appears that warm water is preferable to oil. The water dissolves the mucous matter, which connects together the truly ceruminous particles, and which is the cause of their tenacity; other applications only succeeding by reason of the water which they contain. The lodgment of hard pellets of wax, if neglected, may' ultimately produce ulceration of the tympanum, and other serious mischief. Thus, in one case, llibes and Chaussier found the handle of the malleus separated from its head, partly destroyed, and covered with the hardened cerumen that had made its way into the tympa- num. (See Did. dts Sciences Med. T. 38, p. 30.) “ The symptoms (says Mr. Saunders) which are attached to the inspissation of the cerumen are pretty well known. The patient, besides his inability to hear, complains of noises, particularly a clash or confused sound in mastication, and ot heavy sounds, like the ponderous strokes ol a hammer. “ The practitioner is led byr the relation of