SUPPURATION. U97 arts, through which the matter is liable to be- ame widely diffused. This is particularly the iso with abscesses, that are situated on the fore- st of the neck, or in the cavity of the axilla, • by the side of the rectum. When matter is rtned in the cavity of the axilla, if it does not eedily obtain an external outlet, it is very liable pass up towards the clavicle in the course of e axillary plexus of nerves and vessels, or for- lrds under the pectoral muscle. I have re- ..-atedly seen axillary abscess take both of these rections at the same time, forming one of the ost painful and difficult cases to treat, which dcurs in the management of abscesses.” Dr. Thomson also considers an early opening proper d necessary, where the matter is lodged, as in me cases of whitloe, in the sheaths of the ten- : ns; where matter is formed under the perios- nm; where it collects under fasciae, or in the cinity of large arteries, joints, or the greater vities of the body : also when the abscess is ■ep-seated. (See Thomson's Lccttircs on In~ mmation, p. 336—338.) i With respect to making an early opening into ■scesses, situated near large arteries, I am not rare, that any danger of the artery ulcerating consequence of the nearness of the pus, really is.ists. Therefore, some doubts may reasonably entertained of Professor Thomson’s advice in is particular case, as the general rule of open- b jscesses near large blood-vessels, in an -ly stage of the disease, would be objectionable the ground of the practice exposing the ves- s themselves to injury. Indeed, this well- ormed writer distinctly mentions, in consider- I he subject in question, that the arteries are t very susceptible of ulcerating absorption.— ’. 337.) tiif. PLACE where the opening should BE MADE. If a free opening is not required, or making e is not practicable, it is at least proper to make latever opening can be made in a depending uation. By this means the matter will more idily escape, and all pressure, arising from the nfineroent or lodgment of pus, will be pre- nted. A very small degree of pressure on it side of the abscess which is next to the skin, iy produce ulceration there; and although :h pressure might not, in many cases, be so ?at as to produce ulceration at the bottom of • abscess ; yet it might be sufficiently great to •vent granulations from forming on that side, 1 thereby retard the cure, as no union can o place, but by means of granulations. The assure is always most, and retards the forma- n of granulations in the greatest degree, at the ■ft depending part of the abscess. Hence, if opening be made in this situation, the upper "t of the abscess readily heals to a small point, ich becomes a'fistula. ’ When circumstances forbid making an open- > at the most depending part of an abscess, ‘haps, nothing more can be done, than to eva- lte the matter as often as necessary, and 'tly to compress the sides of the abscess to- iler, when the situation of the case admits of : practice. but abscesses are not always to be opened at the most depending part. The distance between the matter and the skin at this part is the com- mon reason against the method. If an abscess is rather deeply situated, and points in a place which is higher than where the collection lies, it is proper to make the opening where the conical eminence, or, as it is termed, the pointing, ap- pears. Thus, if an abscess should form in the centre of the breast, and point at the uppermost part, which is often the case, it would be impro,- per to cut through the lower half of the mam- ma, in order to make a passage for the matter in that direction. If an abscess should form on the upper part of the foot, it would be wrong to make an opening through the sole of the foot to get at the most depending part of the abscess; for, besides cutting such a depth of sound parts, a great many useful ones would be destroyed. When the abscess does not point in a depend- ing situation, as in the instances just cited, since the place where the matter threatens to open a passage is likely to be the future opening, and this situation is disadvantageous to the healing of the deep part of the abscess, it is generally best to let the collection of matter first burst of itself, and then dilate the opening as freely as ne- cessary. By allowing abscesses to burst spon- taneously, the opening is not so apt to heal as if made by art, and, therefore, is better in such si- tuations. (Hunter.) In most cases, it is more advantageous even to cut through a certain thickness of parts, for the sake of obtaining a depending opening, than to make an opening, where the pointing appears, that is, where the parts are thinnest, and the matter nearest the surface. This remark is highly worthy of remembrance, when there is no doubt of the existence of matter at the de- pending place, and when the parts to be divided are not important ones. Collections of matter beneath the fasciae of the fore-arm and thigh par- ticularly demand attention to this direction, as they commonly point where those ligamentous expansions are thinnest, not where the matter can most readily escape. Abscesses in the sheath of the rectus abdominis should also be opened in a low situation. DIFFERENT METHODS OF OPENING ABSCESSES. All abscesses will naturally burst of them- selves, unless the matter be absorbed, and, in general, they ought to be allowed to take this course. I here are, however, as I have already explained, particular circumstances which require an early opening; but, when the skin over the abscess is very thin, it is not of so much conse- quence, whether the case be permitted to burst of itself, or it be opened by the surgeon. When abscesses are large, it is generally ne- cessary to open them by art, whether they have burst of themselves or not; for, the natural opening will seldom be sufficient for the com- pletion of a cure; and, although it may be suf- ficient for the free discharge of the matter, yet these abscesses will heal much more readily when a free opening is made; for, the thin skin over the cavity granulates but indifferently, and there- fore unites but slowly with the parts underneath. (Hunter.) Abscesses may be opened either by an incision,