542 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. injury. When it is necessary to amputate above this joint, the less important wound need not be dressed, till after the operation, provided it can be comprehended in the section of the member, or be so near the place of the incision as to alter the indication. When the wound, demanding amputation, is the upper one, the operation of course is to be done above it, without paying any regard to the injury situated lower down. Ninth ease. To the foregoing species of gun- shot wounds, pointed out by Baron Larrey as urgently requiring immediate amputation, my own experience, and the observations of Dr. Thomson, justify me in adding compound frac- tures of the thigh from gun-shot violence. I am particularly glad, that the latter gentleman has devoted a proper degree of attention to these cases; for, the opportunities, which I had of judging when abroad, incline me to believe, that military surgeons are hardly yet sufficiently im- pressed with the propriety of immediate amputa- tion in gun shot fractures of the thigh. There were brought into my hospital at Oudenbosch in 1814, about eight of such cases, all in the worst state for an operation, because several days had elapsed after the receipt of the injuries. All these patients died, excepting one, whose fracture was not far above the condyles, and I do not know, that he ever regained a very useful limb. An- other had indeed been rescued by amputation from the dangers of the injury; but, was unfortunately lost by secondary hemorrhage about three days after the operation. The bleeding was almost instantly suppressed; yet, such was the weakness of the patient, that the irritation of securing the vessel, and the loss of blood together, destroyed at once every hope of recovery. Were I to judge, then, from my own personal observations in the army, and from some other cases, which I saw under my colleagues, I should without he- sitation recommend immediate amputation in all cases of compound fractures of the thigh, caused by grape-shot, musket balls, &c. If there are any exceptions to this advice, they are such as are specified in the article Amputation. “ Gun-shot fractures of the thigh (says Dr. J. Thomson) have been universally allowed to be attended with a high degree of danger; in- deed, till of late years, very few instances have been recorded of recovery from these injuries. Ravaton acknowledges, that, in his long and ex- tensive experience, he had never seen an example of recovery from a gun-shot fracture of the thigh ; and Eilguer, in his calculations, with re- gard to those, who recover from gun-shot frac- tures, sets aside those of the thigh-bone, as being of a nature altogether hopeless. In the present improved state of military surgery, instances not unfrequently occur of recovery, from this fracture; but, of these, the number will be found, I believe, to be exceedingly small, in com- parison with those who die, particularly when the fracture has had its seat above the middle of the bone, &c.” According to the observation of Percy, scarcely two of ten recover of those, who have suffered gun-shot fractures of the thigh-bone. Mr. Guthrie, who seems to have paid greater attention to this subject, than any preceding author, says, that “ upon a review of the many cases, which I have seen, I do not believe, that more than one sixth recovered, so as to havfl \ ' useful limbs; two thirds of the whole died eithej :r. with or without amputation ; and the limbs of thill remaining sixth, were not only nearly useless I but a cause of much uneasiness to them for thl remainder of their lives.” (See Outline &* • Qiiii shot Woumls f>. 19 .) “ In fractures by musket bullets of the lovel part of the thigh-bone (says Dr. Thomson) re| covery not unfrequently takes place; and botll ' Schmucker and Mr. Guthrie conceive, that they c are injuries, in which amputation may be delayed! !j with safety. It would be very agreeable, thai t this opinion should be confirmed by future tx-* 1] perience; but, it appears to me, that before it| can be received as a maxim in military surgery,, k much more extensive and accurate observation, iff than we yet possess, will be required, with regard! 'i to the proportion of those, who recover without i (• amputation, or after secondary operations, and J [ of those who recover after primary amputation. | Of those, who had suffered this injury, we saw, “ comparatively, but a small number recovering in “ Belgium, and they bad been attended with severe ‘ local and constitutional symptoms.” See Re- 1 port of Observations nnuie m ilit Mititury Huspi- *1 tals in Belgium., p 247, et seq. In the article Amputation, I have described the , manner, in which balls produce fissures of several j? inches in length in the thigh-bone. This state [J of the bone, observes Dr. Thomson, must be very unfavourable to recovery, and his conclusion is, that, in general, even in fractures of the lower part of the thigh-bone a greater number of lives will be preserved, in military practice, by imme- diate amputation, than by attempting the cure, ■ without that operation. “ When the bone ap- pears, on a careful examination, to be broken without being much splintered, and when the pa- tient can be removed easily to a place of rest and safety, it may be right to attempt to preserve the limb; but. if the bone be much splintered, or if ! the conveyance is to be long, or uncertain, it J will, in most instances, I am convinced, be a : much safer practice, even in fractures of this part of the thigh-bone, to amputate without de- lay. “ Musket-bullets, in passing through the fe- mur, near to the knee-joint, produce fissures ot the condyles, which generally communicate with the joint. These cases, like those, in which the T • bullets have passed directly through the joint, require immediate amputation. “ The writings of military surgeons contain but few histories of cases, in which the thigh- bone had been fractured above its middle by the passage of musket-bullets. These are cases, I believe, which have generally had a fatal termi- nation ; and the danger, attendant upon the am- putation, which they require, seems long to have deterred surgeons from attempting to ascertain what advantages might be derived from the em- ployment of that operation Schmucker re- commends, and states, that he had practised with success, immediate amputation in those eases, in which a sufficient space was left below the groin for the application of the tourniquet. It is cu- rious to remark, in the history of amputation, how long surgeons were in discovering the ease and safety, with which the femoral artery may be compressed by the fingers, or pods, in its passage'