1165 VENEREAL DISEASE. I * 3 clng dug out, as it were, from the body of the oust'd: it has a determinate edge, and is coni- lonly very foul, having thick white matter, ke a slough, adhering to it, and not admitting t' being washed away. Here, however, as in most other supposed >rms of syphilis, some test is wanting, by which le case may be certainly distinguished from . ther diseases of the throat, presenting similar . ppearances; for, as Mr. Rose has very truly remarked, “ the excavated ulcer of the tonsils, • s described by Mr. Hunter, is not, as Mr. Car- lichael seems to think, a peculiar symptom of h ie presence of the syphilitic virus. I have re- eatedlv seen it, as well as the scaly blotch, in iases where mercury had been freely employed or the primary sores, and in which 1 considered line virus as eradicated, and both have disappeared . uder the use of sarsaparilla.” [Med. Cliir. rans. Vol. 8, p. 421.) In a recent work, 1 Ir. Carmichael himself acknowledges the justice f the preceding observation, and owns, that, nee the publication of his Essays, he has often oticed the excavated ulcer of the tonsils, either at- mding the primary phagedenic ulcer, or the train :f constitutional symptoms, which arise from it. |( On the Symptoms, dpc. of Venereal Diseases, ■ . 17.) In affections of the throat, Dr. Hennen ates, that he “ would be more guarded, than l any others, in the employment of mercury, ntil all inflammatory disposition was removed.’’ vfterwards he has seen them yield, “ as if by iagic, so soon as the local effects of mercury on ■ie parts within the mouth became obvious.” But, hen mercury was given earlier, he has seen a •) ist number of instances, in which irremediable lischief was done. (On Military Surgery, id. 2,p. ,518.) According to Hunter lues venerea sometimes roduces a thickening and hardening of the >ngue, but, frequently ulceration, as in other irts of the mouth. He describes venereal sores n the tongue, as generally more painful, than mse on the skin; but, less so, than common ire-throats from inflamed tonsils. They oblige ie patient to speak thick, as if his tongue were io large for his mouth, with a small degree of liiffling. Mr. Hunter doubted the reality of a venereal ihthalmy, though he owns that there are in- immations of the eyes, which yield to mer- it try. See the subject of iritis in the article 1/ phthalmy. Symptoms of the second stage of Lucs Vchc. a.—The periosteum, fasciae, tendons, liga- ents, and bones, are the parts which Mr. unter enumerates, as liable to be affected in e second stage of lues venerea. This observa- >n in its full extent, however, seems to be ndered rather questionable; for, it would ap- :ar from the evidence both of ancient and odern writers, that true nodes, or venereal veilings of the bones, and particularly caries, 'rely take place from syphilis, unless mcr- try be employed. It is an observation of Mr. .unter s, that we cannot always know with ccr- inty what parts mav become affected in this age of the disease. He says, he has known e distemper produce a total deafness, some- ncs followed by suppuration, and great pain in e ear, and side of the head. I have already explained, that it was one of this gentleman’s doctrines, that the second order of parts were generally deep-seated. When these become irritated by the poison, he observes, that the progress of the disease is more gradual, than in the first order of parts. It assumes very much the character of scrophulous swellings, or chronic rheumatism ; only it affects the joints less fre- quently than the latter affection does. A swell- ing sometimes makes its appearance on a bone, when there has been no possible means of catch- ing the infection for many months; and, in con- sequence of the little pain experienced, the tumor may be of some considerable size, before it is noticed. Sometimes, a great deal of pain is felt; but, no swelling comes on, till after a long while. According to Mr. Hunter, these remarks are also applicable to swellings of the tendons, and fasciae. As tumors of this kind only increase by slow degrees, they are not attended with sym- ptoms of much inflammation. When they attack the periosteum, they seem like an enlargement of the bone itself, in consequence of being very firm, and closely connected with the latter part. Mr. Hunter also further observes, that, in these advanced stages of the disease, the inflammation can hardly get beyond the adhesive kind, in which state, it continues to become worse and worse, and when matter is formed, it is not true pus, but of a slimy description. Some nodes, he says, both of the tendons and bones, last for years, before they form any matter at all. These cases, he considered, as not being certainly vene- real, though commonly considered as such. Mr. Hunter found it difficult to explain the reason, why, when lues venerea attacks the bones, or the periosteum, the pain should sometimes be very considerable, and, sometimes, very trivial. Vene- real pains in the bones are described by Mr. Hunter as being of a periodical kind, generally most severe in the night-time. At the present day, when many cases, formerly supposed to be syphilitic, are treated without any mercury, and even those, which are reputed to be venereal, are cured by much smaller doses of that medicine, than were given in Mr. Hunter’s time, nodes have become much less frequent, and I have already in a previous part of ^his article expressed my decided belief, iri the just- ness of the opinion given by Fallopius, and others, that a disposition to nodes is often oc- casioned by the abuse of mercury. Treatment of Lues Venerea.—In Mr. Hunter’s opinion, the first order of parts, or those which are most susceptible of being affected in lues venerea, are also the most easy of cure; while the second order of parts take more time to be remedied. In the class of complaints, arising in the second stage of the lues venerea, Mr. Hunter believed, that it was unnecessary to continue the employment of mercury, till all the swelling had disappeared. For, it is observed by this di- stinguished writer, that, since these local com- plaints cannot contaminate the constitution by re-absorption, and since the venereal disposition and action from the constitution can be cured, while the local effects still remain, and this even when the tumefaction, forming nodes on the bones, fasciee, &c. lias proceeded to suppuration, there can bo no occasion for continuing the