no« CATARACT. pappy substance of the diseased lens piecemeal; and in pushing the fragments through the pupil’, into the anterior chamber, where tiiev arc gra- dually absorbed. One great advantage of couching, insisted upon by Scarpa, depends upon its generally removing the capsule, at the same time with the lens, from the passage of the rays of light to the retina. Some- times, however, this desirable event, by which the patient is extricated from the danger of a second- er i; membranous cataract, does not take place even in the operation of depression; and, when the lens included in its capsule is extracted from the eye, by the other method, it may always be con- sidered as rather an uncommon circumstance. What most frequently constitutes the secondary membranous cataract, is the anterior half of the capsule, which not having been removed, or suf- ficiently broken, in a previous operation, conti- nues more or less entire in its natural situation, afterwards becomes opaque, and thus impedes the free transmission of the rays of light to the seat of vision. Sometimes the secondary membran- ous cataract presents itself beyond the pupil, in the form of membranous flakes, apparently float- ing in the aqueous humor, and shutting up the pupil: at other times it appears in the form of triangular membranes, with their bases affixed to the Memlrraya Hualcidea, and their points direct- ed towards the centre of the pupil. When there is only a minute membranous flake suspended in the posterior chamber, Scarpa thinks it by no means necessary for the patient to submit to another operation ; vision is tolerably perfect,and the small particle of opaque matter will, in time, spontaneous- ly disappear. But when the secondary membranous cataract consists of a collection of opaque frag- ments of the capsule, accumulated so as either in a great degree or entirely to close the pupil; or when the disease consists of the whole anterior half of the opaque capsule, neglected in a prior operation, and continuing adherent in its natural situation, it is indispensable to operate again ; for, although in the first case, there may be good reason to hope, that the collection of membran- ous fragments might, in time, disappear, yet it would be unjustifiable to detain the patient for weeks and months in a state of anxiety and blind- ness, when a safe and simple operation would restore him, in a very short space of time, to the enjoyment of this most useful of the senses. In the second case, says Scarpa, it is absolutely in- dispensable : for while the capsule remains ad- herent to its natural connexions, the opacity sel- dom disappears, and may even expand itself over a larger portion of the pupil. He advises the operation to be performed as follows : when the aperture in the iris is obstructed by a collection of membranous Hakes, detached from the mem- brana hvaloidea, the curved needle should be in- troduced, with the usual precaution of keeping its convexity forward, its point backward, until arrived behind the mass of opaque matter; the surgeon is then to turn the point of the needle towards the pupil, and is to push through this opening, regularly one after another, all the opaque particles into the anterior chamber, where, as we have before noticed, absorption seems to be carried on more vigorously than behind the pupil. All endeavours to depress them into the vitreous humor, Scarpa has found it to be in vain; for scarcely is the couching needle withdrawn when they all re-appear at the pupil, as if, (to use his own phrase) carried thither by a current: but when forced into the anterior chamber, besides being incapable of blocking up the pupil, they lie, without inconvenience, at the bottom of that cavity, and in a few weeks are entirely ab- sorbed. When the secondary membranous cataract con- sists of the whole anterior layer of the cry- stalline capsule, or of several portions of it con- nected with the membrana hyaloidea, Scarpa, after cautiously turning the point of the needle to- wards the pupil, pierces the opaque capsule: or, if there be any interspace, he passes the point of the instrument through it; then, having turned • it again backward, he conveys it, as near as pos- j sible, to the attachment of the membranous cata- ract, and after piercing the capsule, or each por- tion of it successively, and sometimes carefully rolling the handle of the instrument between his finger and thumb, so as to twist' the capsule round its extremity, he thus breaks the cataract, as far as it is practicable, at every point of its circumference. The portions of membrane, by this means separated from their adhesions, are I next cautiously pushed, with the point of the couching needle turned forward, through the pupil, into the anterior chamber. In these ma- noeuvres the operator must use the utmost cau- tion not to injure the iris, and ciliary processes, for, upon this circumstance depends the avoid- j ance of bad symptoms after the operation, not- withstanding its duration may be long, and tbel j necessary movements of the needle frequently 1 [ repeated. If a part of the membranous cataracts I be found adherent to the iris, (a complication^ jj that will be indicated when, upon moving id jj backward, or downward with the needle, the pupilj ij alters its shape, and, from being circular be—: ,j comes of an oval, or irregular figure), even more? | caution is required than in the foregoing case, so»j J as to make repeated, but delicate movements oil the needle, to separate the membranous opacity-*! without injuring the iris. Beer’s mode of pro-*J j ceeding in such a case, I have already described*! S Scarpa does not deem it necessary to vary theplari of operating above explained, if occasionally tha cataract be formed of the posterior layer of tha capsule. And according to this author, the sama plan also succeeds in those rare instances whera the substance itself of the crystalline wastes, andii almost completely absorbed, leaving the capsuluj opaque, and including, at most, only a small nucleus, not larger than a pin’s head. Scarp^ terms it the Primary Membranoas Cataract, anwSj describes it as being met with in children, on young people under the age of twenty ; as bcinall characterized by a certain transparency, an<H similitude to a cobweb; by a whitish opaquf> point, either at its centre or circumference; anew by a streaked and reticulated appearance: hj adds, that whosoever attempts to depress such J cataract is ballled, as it re-appears behind th * pupil, soon after the operation; he recommend! breaking it freely with the curved extremity c! the couching needle, and pushing its fragment i into the anterior chamber, where they are grn dually absorbed in the course of about thre j weeks. No other topical application is generally reqm :