6S3 HYDROPHOBIA. I H Some facts which occurred, a fe\V years ago, of opium, and also half an ounce of laudanum in a clyster, but the fatal termination of the disease wat not prevented. Dr. Babington even pre- scribed the enormous quantity of 180 grains in eleven hours, without the least amendment, or even any narcotic effect. (Med. Records and Researches, p. 121.) On the very first day, that rabies decidedly shewed itself in a man, who had been bit by a mad dog, Dupuytren injected into the vena saphena, by means of Ariel’s syringe, two grains of the extract of opium dissolved in distilled water, and as a degree of calm appeared to be the result, four grains more were thrown into the cephalic vein. The patient remained perfectly tranquil three hours longer; but the symptoms afterwards recurred with in- creased violence. The next morning, about six or eight* grains more were dissolved, and thrown into the circulation ; but, all was in vain, as the patient died in three quarters of an hour after the last injection. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 131.) As for belladonna, its employment for the pre- vention and cure of hydrophobia is very ancient, its external use for this purpose having been men- tioned by Pliny, and its internal exhibition, with the same view, by Theod. Turquetus in a post- humous work published in 1696. (See Praxeos j\Iedicts Syntagma, c)r.) In 1763, belladonna was recommended by Schmid as a remedy for hydrophobia, and in 1779 by J. H. Munch. (See Richter's Chir. Bibl.) At present, this medicine has entirely lost its character of pos- sessing any power against hydrophobia. Of late years, the public hope has been raised by the accounts given of the virtue of hydro-chlorine, or oxymuriatic acid. Wendel- stadt even published the story of an English- man, who allowed himself to be bit several times by a mad dog, and thdn saved himself by wash- ing the bites with this acid. And, still more recently Professor Brugnatelli, in the Italian Journ. of Physic, Chemistry, &e. ( T. 9, p. 324) has published some observations, tending to prove the efficacy of the external and internal employ- ment of the medicine for the prevention of rabies. The bites are washed with it, and then covered with charpie wet with it. And, when the sym- ptoms commence, if it could not be swallowed in a fluid form, Brugnatelli gives bread pills imbued with it. For a child eight years old, the dose is Qij four, or five times a day, but gradually increased. According to Orfila, hydro-chlorine was long since recommended by Cluzel, as an internal remedy for hydrophobia. (Secours d dormer aux personnes cmpoisone.cs, $•<?. 8vo. Paris, 1318, p. 1.53.) With regard to Brug- natelli’s cases, they are said to be so destitute of precision and certainty, that no inference can be drawn from them. (Diet, des Sciences Med. T.<\~l, p. 119.) In order to give hydro-chlorine a fair trial, it was used internally nnd externally on seven patients in the Hotel Dieu at Lyons in I8I7. The bites were washed and bathed with it, and some of them also cauterized; and each patient took daily a dram of the acid, made into an agreeable sweetened drink. All these un- fortunate individuals afterwards died of rabies, though the treatment was begun the day after the receipt of the wounds. (/,. F. Trollict, Nouveau Traite dc la Rage, (Jjr.) The excision of the bites 70 hours after their infliction, and washing the wound with oxymuriatic acid, did not in Dr. Johnson’s case prevent the disease. (See Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ. Vol. 15, p. 212.) In America, the plant Scutellaria lateriflora has been lately extolled, as a certain specific for hydrophobia. (See A History of the Intro- duction and Use of Scutellaria Lateriflora, as a remedy for preventing and curing Hydrophobia, by Lyman Spalding, M. D. New York, 1819.) The prussic, or hydrocyanic acid has likewise been proposed, on account of its reputed anti- spasmodic properties; but, some experiments, made with it on dogs by Dupuytren, Magendie, and Breschet, furnish no results in favour of its being likely to prove useful in the present dis- order. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 1S2.) By Dr. Rossi, of Turin, the trial of galvanism was suggested. (Alibert-, Nouveaux Elemcns de Therapeutique, T. ‘2,p. 436, Ed. 4); yet, the only fact brought forward, as an en- couragement to persevere with the last means, appears to a modern author, from its symptoms and progress, not to have been a case of rabies. (Diet. cit. T. 47, p. 126.) The rapid and powerful effects of the bite of a viper on the whole system, and perhaps the idea, that the operation of this animal’s venom might counter- act that of the hydrophobic virus, led some ex- perimenters to try what would be the result of subjecting patients, affected with rabies, to the bite of that kind of snake. The project, how- ever, was attended with no success. Three cases of this description were communicated to the Royal Society of Medicine (Hist. p. 201); two additional ones were recorded by Dr. Gilibert, physician to the Hotel Dieu at Lyons, (Advers. Med. Pract. p. 257); and Viricel, surgeon of the same hospital, repeated the experiment on a child, which yet fell a victim to hydrophobia. Other trials are also said to have been made in France and Germany with no better success. Dr. de Mathiis, in the year 1783, let a viper bite a rabid dog on the throat. The dog’s head was attacked with considerable swelling, the hy- drophobia ceased, and, according to some ac- counts, the animal perfectly recovered; but, ac- cording to other statements, though it drank freely as soon as its head had swelled, it only survived the experiment a few hours. (See Diet, des Sciences Med. T. 47, p. 126.) in the East Indies, tended for a time'to raise an expectation, that a copious abstraction of blood might be the means of preserving patients actually attacked with this fatal disorder. Mr. Tymon, assistant surgeon of the 22d Light Dragoons, tried successfully the method of taking away at once an immense quantity of blood from the pa- tient, “ I began by bleeding him (says Mr. Tymon) until scarcely a pulsation could be felt in either arm." Opium was afterwards given, and the patient salivated with mercury. (See Madras Gazette of Nov. 23, 1811.) Although in the observations, annexed to this case by Dr. Berry, there arc some circumstances, which render it probable, that the case was really hydrophobia; yet, as the successful termination of it is an event so extraordinary, I much regret, that some desirable information is omitted. For instance, we have no account of any pain, pif