1168 VENEREAL DISEASE. out into a sore about the size of a sixpence, which he showed me, and which I affirmed had not the thickened edge and base, and other cha- racters of a venereal chancre. I therefore re- commended him to try the ellect of local means, and not to use mercury. “ In about a month, the sore which had spread a little, became again contracted in its dimen- sions, and assumed an healing appearance. At this time pain was felt extending up tlfe arm, and suddenly a considerable tumor arose over the absorbing vessels, which proceed along the inner edge of the biceps muscle. This tumor became nearly as big as a small orange. As the original sore seemed now disposed to heal, and as there was no surrounding induration, I could not believe it venereal, arid therefore recom- mended him still to abstain from mercury, and apply leeches and linen moistened in the aq. litharg. acet. comp, to the tumor formed over the inflamed absorbents For it seemed to me, that if the venereal poison had been imbibed from the sore it would have passed on to one of the ax- illary glands, and would have caused induration and inflammation to take place there, more slowly, than had occurred on the present occasion. Under this treatment the tumor was dis- cussed, and the sore at the same time healed. About three weeks afterwards, the patient called on me, and said that there were venereal ulcers in his throat; and in each tonsil there was an ulcer deeply excavated, with irregular edges, and with a surface covered by adhering matter; ulcers, in short, which every surgeon, who de- pends on his sight as his guide, would have pro- nounced to ba venereal. Shortly after also, some copper-coloured eruptions appeared on his face and breast. He,showed his diseases to several surgeons, on whose opinion he relied, who, with- out hesitation, affirmed that they were venereal, and that the mercurial course had been impro- perly delayed. “ Whilst the patient was looking out for lodgings, in order that he might go through the mercurial process, a circumscribed thickening and elevation of the pericranium covering the frontal bone, appeared: it was of the circumference of a half-crown piece; and was, in short, what every surgeon, who is guided only by his sight and touch, would, withouL hesitation, have called a fair corona veneris. I now told the patient that I was more inclined to believe his dis- ease was not syphilitic, from the sudden and simultaneous occurrence of this node wiflr the sore throat, &c. Other surgeons thought dif- ferently; and I believe, this very sensible and amiable young man imagined, that his health would become asaerifice, if he any longer attended to my opinion. He was preparing to submit to a mercurial course, when very important concerns called him instantly into the country. He went with great reluctance, taking with him mercurial ointment, &c.; and after a fortnight, I received a letter from him, saying that he found his com- plaints benefited by his journey, that business had prevented him from beginning the use of mercury lor a few day's, that lie now lound it was unnecessary, lor his symptoms had almost dis- anueardd, and shortly afterwards lie became per- unequivocal instance extant of a disease occur- ring, which could not from appearance be di- stinguished by surgeons of the greatest experi- ence from syphilis, and which, however, was undoubtedly of a different nature, (that is to say, it was of a different nature, according to certain criteria, then generally believed, but which recent investigations have proved to be destitute of foundation.) All the tests, here alluded to, having been spoken of in the foregoing columns, I shall not here repeat them. Some years ago the nitric acid was introduced as a remedy for syphilis. (See Nitrous Acid.) To the position of its efficacy being as great in venereal cases, as was first alleged, many sur- geons have not acceded, though, as a sensible writer has observed, it has certainly been allowed, with some other medicines, to remain in a kind of copartnership with mercury, and admitted to be useful in venereal cases under certain circum- stances. A great deal of this want of agree- ment, on the effects of remedies in syphilitic cases, is now explained by' the imperfection of the dia- gnosis, and the important fact, that the disease may generally be cured in time, without any medicines whatsoever, though this time is sometimes long. Dr. Scott, who first suggested the use of nitrous acid, has attempted to account for its alleged occasional failures, by observing, that the acid, which he employed, w'as not pure nitric acid, but an impure acid, containing an admix- ture of muriatic acid. He therefore some time ago, recommended the use of a compound acid, containing three parts of nitric acid, and one of muriatic, which he administered internally’, and. also applied externally, largely diluted, as a bath, until the gums were affected and ptyalism pro- duced ; and he conceived every' trial as quite inconclusive, unless these constitutional effects occurred. “The acid that I have used of late (says Dr. Scott,) is the nitro-muriatic; and it is formed by mixing together equal parts of the nitrous, or nitric acid, and muriatic acid. If these acids be in the state of concentration, that they usually possess in the shops, and if tlse quantities be con- siderable, a great volume of gas is evolved on their coming into contact, which taints every part of a house, is extremely hurtful to the lungs, and disagreeable to the smell. To avoid this inconveni- ence, 1 put a quantity of water, at least equal in bulk to both the acids, into a bottle, and I add the acids to it separately. This method does not only prevent the unpleasant odour, but it tends to re- tain the chlorine, on which its effects depend. It is well known, that the nitro-muriatic acid acts very' readilv on the metals and earth ; nothing therefore, but glass, or extremely well glazed vessels of porcelain, should be used to con- tain it. Wooden tubs for batlnng answer very well, and they should always be made as small W j possible, compatible with their holding the body'i or the limbs that we wish to expose to the bath. From their being small, we save acid, and are able to heat the bath with case. In India, I have often exposed the whole body below the head to this bath ; but here I have been satisfied, in gene- ral, with keeping the logs and feet exposed to it In order to warm the bath, after the «rst i i it • J fourth