CATARACT. 29} the iris are nearly as free as in the natural state, the pupil as small as it usually is in a given de- gree of light, the patient capable of judging ac- curately of the strength of the light, and yet the cataract conjoined with amaurosis, which, with the exception of the faculty of perceiving the light, completely impedes vision, it is then only by a careful inquiry into the history of the disease, hat certain circumstances, attending the origin ,f the cataract, and indicating in some measure lie prevalence of amaurosis, can be traced: some- ;mes in consequence of one eye being affected nth amaurosis, and not with cataract, a reasonable uspicion may be deduced, that the eye with cata- aet is also amaurotic; yet, says Beer, in such a ase, nothing certain can be known before an •pcration is done. As the same author observes, the general eom- lications of cataract are as numerous as the dis- ■ -ases of the constitution itself, or as the affections ! f other organs, besides the eye; but the most ommon are scrophula, gout, syphilis, psora, old leers of the leg, and an unhealthy constitution. causes ; prognosis ; &c. n Persons, who are much exposed to strong res, as blacksmiths, locksmiths, glassmen, and lose, who are engaged in similar employments, e deemed to be more subject to the cataract, . an others. Persons, above the age of forty, are c ckoned more liable to cataracts, than younger Objects. (Wenzet.) The disease, however, is, • no means, unfrequent in the latter; even ildren are often seen affected with this kind of ndness, and some are born with it. Beer - sents to the general correctness of the opi- on, that old age is conducive to cataracts, ice the disease is most frequently observed in 1 persons. Yet, says he, that age, nay a very eat age, cannot be deemed a regular cause of taract, is clear from the circumstance of many ry old, and even decrepit, individuals being le, with the aid of spectacles, to read the ■allest print; and it would seem, that other ises, besides old age, are essential to the pro- ction of cataracts; as, for instance, immoderate ;rtion of the eye during youth, particularly, in :h employments as expose the organ to a strong lected light. (Le/tre vm dcr Augenkr. B. 2, 1325.) ■Amongst the circumstances, which promote ■ formation of cataracts, Beer enumerates ®s illuminated only by reflected light; and kinds of work, in which the eyes are employed on shining, small, microscopic objects, espe- My when, during such labour, a determination v blood to the head and eyes is kept up by the tppressed state of the abdomen, the cataract m seeming to come on more or less quickly Ih inflammation of the capsule, and lens. And, ording to the manifold experience of the same hor, one of the most important, though least iced, causes promoting the formation of cata- ’•> is allowing very strong light suddenly to ; er the eyes of a new born, or very young de- te infant, the consequence of which is, that tracts form more or less quickly witli in- nmation of the capsule and lens, or remain life incomplete, as is the case in the central sular-lenticular cataract. The habitual vision of minute objects, in a depending position of the head, by which an undue proportion of blood is said to be thrown upon the organ, frequently brings on cataracts. (See Medhco-Chir. Trans. Vol. 4, )>. 279.) In the majority of instances, a cataract seems to arise spontaneously, without any assign- able cause. Sometimes the opacity of the lens is the consequence of external violence; a case, which, more frequently, than any other, gets well without an operation. Frequently (says a modem writer) the cataract “ proceeds from an hereditary disposition, which has existed for several successive generations; while, in other cases, it attacks several members of the same family, without any disposition of this kind being recognizable in their progenitors. Among others, Janin mentions a whole family of six persons, who laboured under this disease. (Obs. sxir I’Oeil, p. 149.) Richter extracted the cataract from a patient, whose father and grand- father had been affected with the same malady, and in whose son, at that period, it had begun to manifest itself. He adds, that he had seen three children, all born of the same parents, who ac- quired cataracts at the age of three years. (On the different kinds of Cataract, p. 3.) “ During my apprenticeship with the late Mr. Hill, of Barnstaple, I was present, when he operated on two brothers, and a sister, all of whom were adults, and who stated, that three or four others of their family were affected with symptoms not unlike those, which they had experienced at the commencement of the complaint. I myself re- cently operated on two gentlemen advanced in years, who informed me, that they had a brother, on his return from India, who was similarly af- fected.” (See Adams’s Brad. Observations in Ectropium, Artijicl t Pupil, and Cataract, p- 101. London, 1812.) Beer also speaks of families, in which the children all became afflicted with cataracts at a certain age; cases, says he, wlrere an operation, though done by the most skilful practitioner, hardly ever succeeds. (Lehre Von der Augcnkr. B. 2, p, 331.) Long exposure of the head and eyes to the rays of the sun, together with a bent position of the body, as in some kinds of field labour, and the drinking of new acid wines, are reckoned by Beer, as causes promoting the formation of cataracts on the approach of age: also hard la- bour near strong fires, as near ovens and forges, in glass houses, &c.; and hence, it is not unfre- quent for smiths, cooks, &c when they are ad- vanced in years, to be afflicted with cataracts. Beer says, that he has, also, learned from re- peated observation, that exposing the eye to the vapour of concentrated acids, naptha, and alcohol, will sometimes bring on a cataract; a state- ment, which will be received in this country with some hesitation, where the vapour of ether has been occasionally recommended for the dispersion of opacities of the lens and its capsule. T he dust of lime is also supposed to be conducive to the disease, cataracts being said to be frequent amongst the workmen in lime pits and kilns. Wounds of the eye, where the weapon has pierced the capsule and the lens, and especially violent concussions of the forepart ot the globe of the eye. though no wound may exist, are in general followed by a cataract, as an immediate consequence. This is the case, says Beer, even