454 FRACTURES. its natural shape, *o that a crepitus can only be felt by a very careful examination with the lin- gers. The difficulty of the diagnosis is increased, when the surgeon is consulted late, and great swelling has come on. Where is the surgeon, says Boyer, that has not sometimes hesitated to deliver an opinion in certain cases of this de- scription? (Tvaite des Malad. Chir. T. 3, p. 27.) When the injured limb is shortened, the sur- geon, before pronouncing that such change pro- ceeds from the riding of the fragments over each other, must be sure, that the bones are not dis- ' located, and that the limb is not naturally shorter, than the other, or in consequence of a previous fracture, that has been badly set. In comparing the length of the lower extremi- ties, one should place the pelvis in an horizontal position, and put the two anterior superior spines of the ossa ilium in the same line ; for, if these processes are not on a level, the limb, towards which the pelvis inclines, will seem longer, than the opposite member. The practitioner, who is well acquainted with the conformation of the limbs, and particularly with the mutual relations of the eminences of the bones to each other, will readily perceive the alterations produced by a fracture. Whenever, in consequence of a fall, or blow, a limb becomes concave at a part, where it ought to be convex; or straight, et vice versa; the change of shape and direction must proceed from a fracture with displacement. The inner edge of the great toe, when the leg rests on an horizontal surface, should correspond with the inner edge of the knee-pan. If this natural relation be altered; if the inner edge of the great toe correspond with the outer edge of the knee-pan, there can be no doubt of the existence of a fracture of both bones of the leg. (Boyer, Vol. cit. T. 3, p. 25.) I am aware, that considerable harm, and great unnecessary pain, have been occasioned in the practice of surgery, by too much solicitude to feel the grating of fractured bones, and, whenever the case is sufficiently evident to the eyes, the practitioner who gives way to this habit, at the ex- pense of torture to the unfortunate patient, ought in my opinion to be severely censured. A frac- ture is an injury, necessarily attended with a great deal of pain, and followed by more, or less swelling, and inflammation; and to increase these evils by roughly, or unnecessarily handling the part, is ignorantly cruel, and, (if I may use the expression) unsurgical. In some kinds of fractures, the broken bone is so surrounded with thick fleshy parts, that it is difficult to feel a crepitus, or ascertain the exist- ence of the injury. Some fractures of the neck of the thigh bone, unattended with much retrac- tion of the limb, are instances illustrative of this observation. 4. Prognosis of Fractures. The prognosis of fractures varies, according to the kind of bone injured, what part of it is broken, the direction of the breach of continuity, and what other mischief complicates the case. Fractures of bones, which have many strong muscles inserted into them, are more difficult of cure, than those of other bones, which have not so many powers attached to them, capable of dis- turbing the fragments. A fracture of the middle part of a long bone, is less dangerous, than a similar injury near a joint. Fractures near joints may occasion a false anchylosis. Thus, in a fracture of the thigh- bone, near the condyles, the inflammation and swelling extend to the knee-joint, which is af- fected with a degree of stiffness that continues for a long while, and sometimes cannot be en- tirely cured during life. Besides, the inflam- mation of the joint is attended with more severe symptoms, in consequence of the contusion having been snore violent. In a fracture near an articulation, it is to be observed, also, that the splints have no command over the short frag- ment, so that it is often difficult to prevent dis- placement. Hence, a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone is considered a worse case, than a similar injury of the body of the bone. When a bone is fractured in several places, the case is more serious, and the difficulty of cure much augmented. But, the accident is still worse, when a limb is fractured in two different places at once ; as, for instance, in the thigh and leg. Here it is almost impossible to reduce the fracture of the thigh and maintain the reduction well, so as to preserve the natural length of the limb. (Boyer, Traitedes Mai. Chir. T. 3.p. 29.) Oblique fractures are more troublesome, and difficult of cure, than transverse ones, because an oblique surface does not resist the retraction of the lower portion of the broken bone, and con- sequently it is very difficult to keep the ends of the fracture duly applied to each other. Fractures, complicated with violent contusion of the soft parts, or with a wound, rendering them compound, are much more dangerous, than others free from such accidents. The bad symptoms, which render compound fractures so dangerous, are of many kinds: hemorrhage; violent and extensive inflammation of the limb, with extreme pain, delirium, and fever; large abscesses; gan- grene ; &e. Fractures of the leg are generally more serious, than similar injuries of the upper extremity. The wound of a large artery may add considerably to the danger of a fracture. In a debilitated old man, a fracture is less likely to end well, than in a healthy child, or strong young subject. In extreme old age, the cure of a fracture is always more difficult, and sometimes impossible. (Boyer, T. 3, 3*2.) The scurvy certainly retards the formation of callus; but, it is not true, that pregnancy always prevents the union of fractures. Some years ago, I attended for Mr. Ramsden, a woman in a court, leading out of St. Paul’s Church-yard, who broke both bones of her leg, when she was several months gone with child. Her preg- nancy, however, did not appear to be at all un- favourable to the cure, as she got quite well in the usual time. “ It is not generally settled,’’ says a modern writer, “whether pregnancy should be ac- counted a complication. I have, as well as some other practitioners, seen a pregnant woman get well of a simple fracture in the ordinary time. (Levtillc, Nouvelle Doctrine Chir. T. ‘2, /’• l_59*i And in another place he says, “ Contre l’opinion de Fahrice dc IIildcn, C experience m'a prom t qvc, chez Us femmes grosses, le cal ttait aussi prompt