CATHETER. 326 Celsus knew of no other kind. As these, how- ever, had the inconvcnienceof becomingincrusied with verdigrise, they at length fell into disuse, and others, made ot silver, were substituted for them. "This change, which was made as early as the time of the Arabian practitioners, still receives fhe approbation of the best modern surgeons. The common catheter is a silver tube, of such a diameter as will allow it to be introduced with ease into the urethra, and of various figures and lengths, according as it is intended for the young or adult, the male or female, subject. For an adult female subject, it should be about six incites long; and, for young girls, four or five. For men, the length ought to be from ten inches and a half to eleven inches. But, as the instrument need not enter far into the bladder, Mr. John Bell’s advice to avoid too great a length, merits observance. (Principles of Surgery, Vol. ‘2, p. 193.) As the urethra in some instances is narrow, and, in others wide, surgeons should be furnished with catheters of different diameters. The choice of the instrument, in respect to its width, is likewise determined very much by the nature of the disease of the urethra. (Langenheck•, Bibl. B. I, p. 1177.) For a woman, the diameter ought to be at least two lines; and, for girls, a line and a half. For male adult subjects, Desault recommends the thickness of two lines and one- third ; and, for boys, that of a line and a half. In general, whenever the urethra is pervious, it is better to follow the advice of Desault, and employ a largish catheter, which will enter the passage more easily, and not be entangled in the folds of the membranous lining of the canal, while it will afford a more ready outlet for the urine. On the other hand, small catheters should be preferred, when there are obstructions in the passage. Catheters also differ in shape : those which Desault used for male subjects, had only a slight curvature of one third of their length ; a curvature, which began insensibly from their straight part, and was continued to the very end of their beaks. The curvature was also regular, so as to form the segment of a circle six French inches in diameter. As the course of the urethra in the male subject is regular, the caprice evinced by surgeons in the different curvatures of their catheters, cannot be founded on any correct ana- tomical principles, and the bend of the instru- ment, (at least for subjects of the same age and stature,) should generally not vary at all, but be strictly adapted, as Langenbeck remarks, to the natural track of the urethra. (Bibl. 1, p. 1171.) The female catheter, however, has only a slight curvature towards its beak ; a shape adapted to the direction of the meatus urinarius. Desault also improved silver catheters, by causing them to be made with elliptical openings, or eyes, at the sides of the beak, with rounded edges, instead of the longitudinal slits previously in use, in which the lining of the urethra was frequently entangled, pinched, and lacerated, so that acute pain and profuse hemorrhage were the conse- quences. With the view of preventing these evils, he also filled up the openings with lard. (See OSnvres Chir. de Desault, T. 3, p. 118.) Besides silver, or inflexible catheters, surgeons now frequently employ flexible ones, made of elastic gum. These last, indeed, are of so much importance, that they may be said to constitute one of the greatest improvements in modern sur- gery. I shall not here inquire, whether they were first invented by Theden, Pickel of W urzburg, or Bernard of Paris: this is a point, which the Germans and French must settle themselves. Imperfect attempts had been made by others at earlier periods to invent catheters, possessing the property of flexibility. Van Helmont pro- posed the use of catheters, made of horn ; but. this substance was found to be too stiff anti to be very quickly coated with depositions from the urine. Fabrieius ab Aquapendente employed leather catheters, which were objectionable, inas- much as they were soon softened by the urine and mucus of the urethra, when they shrivelled, and became impervious. Other flexible cathe- ters were also formerly tried, composed of spiral springs 0f silver-wire, covered with the skins of particular animals. These last, however, were very quickly spoiled by putrefaction ; and when left in the urethra any considerable time, the beak sometimes entirely separated from the rest of the instrument, and was left behind in the bladder. The elastic gum-catheters, now in use, are liable to none of the preceding inconveniences : they are formed of silk tubes, woven for the pur- pose, and covered with a coat of elastic gum; they are sufficiently flexible to accommodate themselves to the different curvatures of the urethra; they are not softened by the urine; and they constant!)' remain with their cavity un- obliterated. Their smooth and polished surface makes them continue a long while free from incrustations deposited from the urine. Some- times, they are introduced with a stilet, or wire, which is passed into their canal, in order to give them a certain curvature, and a greater degree of firmness ; but, in general, it is withdrawn as soon as the tube is in the bladder. Elastic catheters are less irritating to the ure- thra, and less apt to become covered with cal- culous incrustations, than silver tubes: they can also be frequently introduced, when a metallic one Will not pass. The selection of good bougies and catheters, especially in operations upon the male subject, is a business of the first-rate importance, for, by employing such as are disposed to break, “many a practitioner has doomed his patient to years cl dreadful, and, perhaps, hopeless suffering, and brought down irreparable disgrace upon bis own head!” (Med. Chir. Jnurn. Vo!. 5,p. 75.) M. Nicod, in performing the operation of lithotomy upon a male, found the stone, which was very brittle, one inch and a half long, and eight or nine lines thick, traversed in the direction of its greater diameter, by a piece of elastic gum cathe- ter, which had acted as a nucleus for the deposi- tion of calcr.r^ius matter. (See Ohs. mr Ic danger dUmploycr de maumiscs sotules dc goimne elastique; Jonrn. de Meaccinc, par Leroux, Orf. 1816.) The best elastic catheters used to be fabricated at Paris, by Bernard. At the present time, the best maker in France is Feburier, orfi vre, in the Rue du Bac, No. 51, at Paris; but the elastic gum catheters now made in London are in some respects better than French, being generally much smoother and more regular, though I be- lieve our smallest sii!e is not yet so small, as