WOUNDS. 1179 unds ot tli la > • organs, c ; a varieties, . i itmlc in iro -.rrehended from them. Some wounds arc per- tly trivial, not extending more deeply, than • skin and cellular membrane; while others are are serious, penetrating the muscles, tendons, . ge blood-vessels, and nerves, of importance, ere are also certain wounds, which are not nfined to the soft parts, but injure even the . les ; such are many sabre-wounds, which fre- eentlv separate at once both a portion of the lp anil the subjacent part of the skull. Many unds of the head, chest, and abdomen injure contained in those cavities. In short and the degree of danger, attending unds in general, depend very much upon some : the following circumstances. The extent of i injury; the kind of instrument with which it -; been inflicted; the violence, which the fibres the part have suffered, in addition to their di- ion ; the size and importance of the blood- ^sels and nerves, which happen to be injured; .; nature of the wounded part, in respect to its aeral power of healing favourably, or not; ether the operations of the system at large, 1 life itself, can be well supported, or not, ile the functions of the wounded part are dis- hed, interrupted, or suspended, by the acci- tt; the youth, or old age of the patient; the . adness, or badness of his constitution ; and the jortunities, which there may be of administer- !; proper surgical aid, and assistance of every id. Wounds are distinguished by surgical writers »co several kinds; viz. incised, punctured, con- ed, lacerated, poisoned, and gun-shot wounds. ev also make another equally important divi- n into Wounds of the Head, Thorax, Ab- n7wen, §c. Of gun-shot wounds, and wounds of the head, account has already been given. (See Gnn- ■t Wounds, and Head, Injuries of.) The it er cases I shall now proceed to consider. I Incised Wounds. As a general observation, nay be stated, that, caeterisparibus, a wound, ich is made with a sharp cutting instrument, ich is, in short, a mere incision, is attended h less hazard of dangerous consequences, than / other kind of wound whatever. The fibres re only been simply divided; they have suf- td no contusion, nor laceration; consequently, ; y are less likely to inflame severely, or to ipurate, or slough ; and they commonly ad- : of being united again in a very expeditious nner. 3enerally simple incised wounds bleed more :ly, than contused and lacerated ones, which : irst sometimes scarcely pour out any blood at although considerable blood-vessels may be ired. But, this circumstance, apparently di- lishing the danger of contused and lacerated inds, is deceitful, and serves rather to render case in reality more perilous, by inducing the xperienced practitioner to be ofF his guard linst hemorrhage. Thus, in gun-shot wounds, •ften happens, that, on their first occurrence, bleeding is trivial; but, the side of some f artery having suffered great violence at time of the accident, it may ulcerate, or •gh, a week or ten days afterwards, and an •ming, and even fatal effusion of blood be the ult. n cases of simple incised wounds, the bleeding, which at once takes place from all the divided vessels, is a source of very useful information to the surgeon, inasmuch as it enables him to judge, what danger is to be apprehended from the he- morrhage, whether the cut vessels are large enough to demand the ligature, or, on the con- trary, whether they are such as will cease to bleed, either by slight pressure, or of their own accord. In a recerit simple incised wound, there are three objects, which the surgeon should endea- vour to accomplish, without the least delay. The first, and that which requires his immediate in- terference, is the bleeding, which must be checked. The second is the removal of all ex- traneous matter from the surface of the wound. The third is the reunion of the opposite sides of the injury. When the divided vessels are not above a cer- tain size, the bleeding soon spontaneously ceases, and no surgical measures need be taken on this particular account. When the wounded vessels are even somewhat larger, and their situation is favourable for compression with a bandage, it is often advisable to close the wound and apply compresses and a roller, rather than have re- course to ligatures, which always create a certain degree of irritation, and suppuration. However, though I have made this observation, I should be exceedingly sorry to appear at all against the general preference to ligatures, whenever the wounded arteries are above a certain magnitude. In this circumstance, tying the bleeding vessels is the only safe mode of proceeding. When the artery is of considerable size, and its mouth can be readily seen, the most proper instrument for taking hold oflt is a pair of forceps. In apply- ing the ligature, the surgeon must take care to pull its ends in such a manner, that the noose will not rise above the mouth of the vessel, and for the purpose of altering the direction of the force employed in tightening the ligature, the ends of the thumbs are generally made use of. The tenaculum is commonly employed for taking up arteries, which are not large and distinct. Very fine ligatures, of sufficient strength, are at present often applied* as well to large, as small vessels. One half of each ligature should always be cut off, before the wound is closed, and there are some surgeons, who prefer the method of cutting off all the ligature, except what forms the noose immediately round the artery. (Dclpcch, Mem. sur la Pourriturc d'Hbpital, p. 2.9 ; Laurence in Med. Cliir. Trans. Pol. 6, p. 156‘.) 1 o the latter plan, however, a few sur- geons have adduced objections, particularly Mr. Guthrie, who only admits the utility of it in cases, where the wound will not unite by the first intention ; [On Gun-shot Wounds, p. 94,) and Mr. Cross, of Norwich. (See the London Medical Repository, VoL7,p. 353.) The ex- periments of Mr. Cross tend to the following conclusions: First, If the wounds do not unite by the first intention, the ligatures may escape with the dis- charge, without any inconvenience. Secondly, If common ligatures of twine are cut short, the wound may unite over them, and they may be found in abscesses after an interval of many weeks. Thirdly, If the finest dentist’s silk be cm-