1145 VENEREAL DISEASE. larticularly attended to this investigation, de- lares his conviction, that “ many varieties of ore, independently of the sloughy chancre, men- loned by Mr. Carmichael, lead to constitutional ymptoms, differing in no respect from those lie as described, and admitting of the same mode f cure.” Nor does he believe, with Mr. Car- lichael, that only one particular species of sore : callable of producing the true secondary sym- toms of lues. (,/. Bacot, on Syphilis, p. HI.) From these observations, I think, we may . ifely infer, that, with respect to the sloughing leer, it neither arises from the application of any :ne specific poison to the part, nor is it connected . ith any regular train of secondary symptoms. Dr. Hennen assures us, that he has frequently id occasion to observe, that eruptions of the 1 ame nature and character have succeeded to the * ul indurated, excavated ulcer, and to the simple ceoriation. “ In fifteen cases of eruptions, un- .’companied by any other symptoms, which suc- ?eded the Hunterian sore, six were tubercular, ve exanthematous, two pustular, one tubercular id scaly, and one tubercular and vesicular. “ In four cases, following the same sore, but, which the eruptions were complicated, with ire throat, two were tubercular, one was tuber- dar and scaly, and one was tubercular and uanthematous. “ In twelve cases, following the non Hunterian re, and in which eruptions were the only sym- oms, six were pustular, three were exanthema- i us, aud one was tubercular and scaly. “ In seven cases, where the eruption was ac- mpanied with sore throat, three were exanthe- atous, two were tubercular, one'was papular, aly, and tubercular,” and one was pustular id tubercular. Dr. Hennen also recites an stance, in which a Hunterian chancre was, at e distance of ten weeks succeded by a papular option, which, in the course of a month, was moved by low diet, purgatives, and the decoc- i on of sarsaparilla. In two months afterwards, i eruption of a similar nature appeared with- it any fresh infection. This was treated with i ercury, which was administered five weeks, so to excite a moderate salivation. Under this _jatment, the eruption faded, having, during its. ogress, assumed the appearance of vesicles and 'stales, and at length falling off in amber- loured scales, with livid bases. Notwithstand- y this mercurial course, the patient was a third ne admitted, ten weeks afterwards, (without y intervening primary affection) with a pus- la r eruption, which was finally cured without ercury, and the pustules falling off in squamulae. another month, without any fresh infection, • was a fourth time taken into hospital with a •ry thickly dispersed pustular eruption, some- lat different from the former, the pustules ing more numerous, smaller, and acuminated, hey yielded to non-mercurial treatment. Du- ig all these attacks, there was aphthous sore roat, and occasional flying pains in the joints. ie inference, drawn from this case, is, that, en a full and judiciously conducted mercurial urse does not prevent the reappearance of nereal eruptions, and that they assume at derent times different characters, notwitlistand- '■> ^'e interruption they receive in their natural Jgress by the use of that remedy. (On Mili- tary Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 528—530.) After these accounts, I can have no hesitation in coming to another conclusion, which is, that, with the exception of the partial confirmation of Mr. Carmichael’s doctrine by Mr. Rose, as far as relates to the frequency of papular eruptions after superficial primary ulcers, the regular con- nexion of particular forms, of secondary sym- ptoms with any given descriptions of primary sores, is so far from being supported by the tes- timony of other observers, that one kind of pri- mary ulcer may lead, in the same patient, to eruptions of several different sorts, either exist- ing together on various parts of the body, or breaking out in succession ; and no regular con- nexion can be traced, between any one species of primary sore, and any' determinate class of secondary symptoms. These truths, I believe, must be admitted, disadvantageous as they are to the prospect of bringing the diagnosis of syphilis to a final settlement, so as to enable the writer to describe the disease with accuracy, and the prac- titioner to recognize and treat it with certainty. The first essential step to the elucidation of this subject, however, is undoubtedly the subversion of every doctrine relative to it, which is repug- nant to general experience. The same facts, which may render it necessary for Mr. Car- michael to retract some of his inferences, and which have now been established, beyond all doubt or possibility of successful contradiction, by the very impartial, disinterested, and exten- sive investigations, made in the army hospitals, would have obliged even Hunter himself, had he been alive, to confess the mistaken views, which he sometimes took of the nature of the venereal disease. Amongst other doctrines, Mr. Hunter incul- cates, that “ the venereal matter, when taken into the constitution, produces an irritation, which is capable of being continued, independent of a con- tinuance of absorption, and the constitution has no power of relief; therefore, a lues venerea continues to increased' The same criterion was proposed by Mr. Abernethy, who states, that the “ constitutional symptoms of the venereal dis- ease are generally progressive, and never dis- appear, unless medicine be employed.” (Sur- gical Observations, p, 137.) And, notwith- standing some dissent may be traced in both old and modern writers from the belief, that mercury was absolutely essential to the cure of the vene- real disease, and an opposite conclusion might easily have been drawn from the whole history of this subject, including the practice of former and present times, the contrary hypothesis was that always taught in all the great medical schools of this country, even down to so late a pe- riod as eight or ten years ago. But, the error no longer prevails, and no facts are more completely established, than that mercury, however useful it may frequently be in the treatment of the vene- real disease, is not absolutely necessary for the cure either of the primary or secondary sym- ptoms, and that the disease, so far from always growing worse, unless mercury be administered, alternately gets well, without the aid of this, or any other medicine. If any man yet doubt the general truth of this statement, let him impar- tially consider the many facts and arguments brought forward in proof of it in the writings of Mr. Fergusson, Mr. Rose, Dr. Hennfcn, Dr.