147 ANEURISM. in a few hours, it generally rises, and is some- times several degrees higher, than that of the opposite member. This state lasts several clays, at the end of which time, the heat of the limb, which has been operated upon, will be found to be about the same as that of other parts of the bodv. (Hodgson on Diseases of Arteries, fyc. p. ‘256.) It is only while the limb is colder than natural, that it ought ever to be fomented, or covered with flannel. In particular examples, there is no increase of temperature in the limb at any period after the operation ; a fact, which Mr. "Hodgson refers to the probability of a col- lateral circulation having already been established, in consequence of the obstruction to the passage of the blood through the main artery by the accumulation of the coagulum in the aneurismal sac. Of course, unless a collateral circulation be established, the operation cannot succeed, as the limb will mortify : it behoves us, therefore, to be aware of the circumstances, which may pre- vent the due transmission of the blood to the inferior part of the limb. These are ably ex- plained and commented upon in Mr. Hodgson’s work ; 1 st, An extensive transverse wound, by which the principal anastomosing branches are di- vided. 2dly, Tight bandages, and pressure, ope- rating so as to obstruct the same vessels. Sdly,The immense bulk of the tumor, and the pressure upon the principal collateral arteries. 4thy, Cal- culous depositions in the coats of the arteries of the limb. 5thly, Advanced age. 6thly, A lan- guid state of the circulation ; a fact, indicating the wrongness of venesection, as a general prac- tice after the operation, though it may yet be right to adopt this treatment, where the pulsa- tions return in the tumor with unusual strength, and appear to stop the diminution of the swelling, as already mentioned. 7thy, The abstraction of heat from the limb by cold evaporating lotions ; a plan, which can only be right, when there is a great increase of heat in the limb, a tendency to inflammation, or a return of strong pulsations in the tumor. \\ hen the operation is done, according to the principles laid down in this article, the patient is not too old, nor enfeebled, and the after-treat- ment is properiy conducted, mortification may now be said to be a rare event. I have seen but one example of gangrene, and in that, only one toe, and a portion of the skin of the instep, sloughed in a very debilitated subject. This partial gangrene of the foot has been particu- larly noticed by Deschamps and Scarpa, the lat- ter of whom regards it as an unusual thing, only likely to happen in old, weak, or unhealthy sub- jects ; and “ at any rate, (says lie,) if this should happen in any of these enervated individuals, the patients may console themselves for the loss of one, or two of their toes, with the cure of a po- 1 pliteal aneurism, and the avoidance of a painful and dangerous incision in the bain, and of the tedious suppuration, which would have followed it.” When the operation succeeds, a considerable portion of the artery above the aneurismal tumor s rendered impervious, the vessel indeed being sometimes converted into a solid cord from the irigin of the profunda to that of the tibial arteries. , -4 fouper, Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. '2, y. 254.) in general, however, the obliteration of the artery is less extensive; a fact, particularly noticed in one of Mr. Hunter’s cases, (Trims, of a Soc. for the Improvement of Med. and Chir, Knowledge, Vol. 1, y. 153.) and vainly urged by Deschamps, as a proof of the insufficiency of the new method. (See Observations et Ihfexwns sur la Ligature des princi/iales Arlores blesses, ct parliculierement sur d Aneurism e de I’Artere poplilde, p. 76, Paris, 1797.) It appears from the observations of Mr. Hodgson, that the artery generally becomes impervious, for the space of three, or four fingers’ breadth, at the place where the ligature is applied; below which part its tube is unclosed, and continues so for some distance, when the obliteration again commences, and descends along a considerable extent of the po- pliteal artery to the origin of the inferior arti- cular, or tibial arteries. Thus, says this author, an insulated portion of the femoral artery pre- serves its cavity, from each of which considerable anastomosing branches arise : the upper branches convey blood into the vessel, and the lower transmit it into anastomosing channels, that originate below the knee. (On Diseases of Arte- ries, fyc. p. 278.) Now, as Mr. Hodgson is un- acquainted with any case, except that recorded by Mr. A. Cooper, where after the modern opera- tion, the artery was obliterated from the seat of disease in the ham to the part, at which the ligature was applied, he thinks it probable, that, in most instances, a double collateral circulation exists in the limb, after this method of cure. In consequence of the motion of the blood being more or less impeded in the aneurismal sac by the application of the ligature to the femo- ral artery, the aneurismal cavity soon becomes completely filled with coagula, which even block up the adjoining portion of the arterial tube. The coagulated blood in the sac is afterwards absorbed; and a gradual diminution, and final disappearance of the aneurism in the ham ensue; with the exception of a slight induration, which sometimes remains, composed of a remnant of the sac itself, or of the fibrous part of the blood. This slight hardness, which occurs in the bottom of the cavity of the ham, occasions no incon- venience, and does not hinder the patient from performing the motions of the knee and leg with quickness and safety. (Scarpa, p. 257, Edit. 2.) When the advantages of the foregoing method of operating are contrasted with the dangers and severity of the practice of laying open the aneu- rismal tumor, and applying ligatures round the diseased part of the vessel, it is surprising to find any living surgeons still expressing a preference to the latter mode of treatment under any •circumstances whatsoever. Yet, Royer, Roux, and a few of the modern French surgeons are in this way of thinking, which re- minds me of their slowness to adopt, at every opportunity, union by the first intention, one of the greatest and most decided advances to per- fection ever made in the practice of surgery. The severity and difficulties of the old method of operating, in cases of popliteal aneurism, are most faithfully depicted by Scarpa. In the ham, says he, the artery lies very deep. I he space is limited and narrow, within which it can be brought into view and tied, without risk of tying