612 HERNIA. pointed out the fact in a very particular manner, I believe, is the next publication in which the subject is explained, (sinut. Chir. slbhundlung nber den Unsprung dcr Leistcnbruchc, War zb. 1 HOi;; and Neueste Anat. Pathol Untersu- vh ungen uber den Unsprung, dj-c. dcr Leisten- und-Schenkelbiuche, 4to. Wurzb. 1814, p. 18, 26, 28, S[c.) According to the latter author, siuce each form of inguinal hernia also, presents characteristic appearances externally, the surgeon can have no difficulty in determining the species oi hernia; which discrimination must be highly important in the taxis, the application of a truss, and especially the operation. The sac of the external scrotal hernia can only pass down within the expansion of the cremaster as far as this part is separate from the cord and tunica vaginalis. Hence, the testis, covered by its tunica vaginalis, lies under the lowest part of the hernial sac, while the vessels of the spermatic cord, in a more or less separated form, are situated behind the posterior part of the sac; viz. the spermatic veins externally, and the vas deferens internally, and the artery in the middle. Should the hernia descend still further, the testis, being included as well as the sac within the tendinous expansion of the cremaster, it cannot glide out of the way, but must be pressed still further downwards by the sac, so as to continue invariably under its fundus, but sometimes inclined a little behind it. (Hessslbach, p. 34.) And, as the same author justly observes, the position of the spermatic cord and testis, and the oblique direction of the swelling in the external species, are the two strongest characters by which every case of inguinal hernia may be discriminated. Although the spermatic cord commonly lies behind, or under, the hernial sac, there are cases in which the vas deferens is found on the outer side of it, while the rest of the spermatic cord lies, as it usually does, on the inner side, or rather under it. (Cooper.) Le Dran, Schmucker, and Blizard, found the whole cord situated in front of the sac. Sometimes the vas deferens runs on the front and inner part, and the rest of the cord on the back and external part of the swelling. (Camper, Ilcy.) The cord has been known to be before, and the vas deferens behind, the sac. (Camper. A. Cooper.) Upon this part of the subject, the reader may deem the following passage interesting. “ While the hernia is of moderate size (says Scarpa) the surrounding cellular substance is not very greatly compressed, and no change is ob- served in the situation of the spermatic vessels. The artery and veins of this name always form, with the vas deferens, one single cord, which is intimately adherent to the posterior surface of the hernial sac. But, in proportion as the tu- mor increases in size, the cellular substance, which immediately surrounds it and unites it to the spermatic cord, is more and more distended and compressed. At length, at a certain period, the distention is carried to such a pitch, that the spermatic vessels are separated from one another, and change their position with respect to the hernial sac. This kind of gradual unravelling of the spermatic chord is quite similar to that, which would be produced by pulling the sur- rounding cellular substance in two opposite di- rections. Such is the reason, why, in scrotal hernia of large size, the spermatic artery, the vas deferens, and the spermatic veins are found separated upon the posterior surface of the sac. All these vessels, instead of being conjoined in one cord, are divided by interspaces, which are sometimes very considerable. Ordinarily, the vas deferens is less separated from the spermatic artery, than from the vein of this name. In some subjects, Camper has seen it situated on one side of the sac, and the artery and veins on the other. (leones Herniarwm, Tab. 5, /.. 0. Tub. 8. 1, 2-) The displacement nnd splitting of the spermatic cord take place equally in adults and in children affected with large scrotal herniae. (Camper, loco, cit.) In general, towards the upper part and neck of the hernia, the vessels are not much separated ; but, as they proceed downwards, they diverge more and more. Sometimes, when the hernia is very old and bulky, they are no longer found at the posterior part, but rather at the sides, and even on the front surface of the sac; they shew themselves through the cremaster muscle, which covers them, and form a sort of vascular train, which arrests the hand of the operator at the moment, when he is about to open the hernia! sac. Le Dran relates, that, in operating upon a large scrotal hernia, he found the spermatic cord 'on the anterior surface of the hernial sac. (Operations de Chir. p. 127.) This fact has been the cause of numerous conjectures, and has appeared altogether inconceivable to such sur- geons, as have not been acquainted with the changes, to which the spermatic cord is exposed, in cases of large scrotal herniae. (Lassus could not (Med. Operat. T. I, p. 152.) con- ceive the possibility of the occurrence). The observation of Le Dran is not the less true and exact: it exemplifies a very important fact, of which it is easy to give a true explanation, when the state of the spermatic cord in ordinary in- guinal herniae, and in those, which have obtained a considerable size, has been comparatively ex- amined. In the first, the spermatic cord quite entire is always found situated on the posterior surface of the hernial sac; but, in the second, the spermatic vessels are so separated from one another, that they sometimes extend over the sides and even the forepart of the hernial sac.’ (Scarpa, Traite dcs Henries, p 61, (j-r.) The hernial sac is commonly described as an elongation of peritonaeum. When more mi- nutely examined, however, it is found, in cases of inguinal hernia, to consist of the portion of peritonaeum, pushed out with the viscera; of a layer of cellular substance on the outside of this, which becomes more or less thickened by the pressure of the rupture in different cases; of a fascia, sent oft’ from the tendon of the external oblique muscle; and of the cremaster muscle, which latter parts form the exterior covering, which consisting of several layers, often leads the operator to fancy that he has opened the cavity of the sac, when, in reality, he ljas not. It is observed by Professor Scarpa, that “ the cremaster muscle, in cases of old large scrotal hernife, acquires a thickness, which is really surprising. Its fibres, which are naturally very thin, become from four to six times more consi- derable. Being spread over the neck and body of the hernial sac, they sometimes present a re-