HOSPITAL GANGRENE. irritable, of a deep red colour, and dotted on their inner surface, with numerous small, ele- vated, and angry-lookjng points, which may be. considered as one of the characterist ic marks of ./ne disease. The surrounding integuments be- come indurated and inflamed, assuming, not un- irequently, an ansarine appearance; and the patient complains of a constant burning, lancina- ting pain. In the vicinity of the sore, the in- teguments become more and more of a dark red colour, in consequence of the violence of the inflammation, which is of an erysipelatous nature, and apt to terminate in sloughing, and carry off the patient. However, the inflammatory sym- ptoms are sometimes mild, and in other cases, exceedingly violent; a fact, accounted for by differences of constitution. (BlacJcadder, p- 34.) In the hospitals at Bilbao, if the incipient stage was overlooked, the febrile symptoms very soon became aggravated; the skin around the sore assumed a highly florid colour, which shortly became darker, then blueish, and at last black, with a disposition to vesicate ; while the rest of the limb betrayed a tendency to oedema. All these threatening appearances occurred within twenty-four hours, and, at this period, also, the wound, whatever might have been its original shape, soon assumed the circular form. The sore now acquired hard, prominent, ragged edges, giving it a cup-like appearance, with par- ticular points of the lip of a dirty yellow hue, while the bottom of the cavity was lined with a flabby blackish slough. The gangrene still advancing, fresh sloughs were rapidly formed; the increasing cup-like cavity was filled up and overtopped by them, and the erysipelatous li- vor and vesication of the surrounding skin gained ground, while chains of inflamed lymphatics could be traced from the sores to the adjoining glands, these exciting inflammation and suppuration, which often furnished a new nidus for gangrene. The face of the sufferer assumed a ghastly anxi- ous appearance; his eyes became haggard, and deeply tinged with bile; his tongue covered with a brownish, or blackish fur; his appetite entirely failed ; and his pulse was feeble and accelerated. In this stage, the weakness and irritability of the patient was such, that the slightest change of posture, put him to torture, increased by his inability to steady the limb, which, if lifted from ■the bed, was seized with tremors and spasmodic .twitches. (Ilcnncns Military Surgery,p. 215, 21-6, Ed. 2,) Authors vary considerably in their descriptions of the state of the tongue. Dr. Ilennen found it brownish, or blackish ; Delpech whitish, or yellowish, (Precis Elan. T. 1, y. 125,) and Mr. Blackadder, covered with a white mucus. (P. 39.) It is explained by Mr. Blackadder, that when the disease attacks a large recent wound, the whole surface of the injury is sometimes affected from the first; while, in other instances, the dis- order commences on, or near the lips of the sore. When the patient is of an inflammatory diathesis, the sore is generally attacked with acute inflammation between the seventh and fourteenth days; the slough becomes softer, and of a pulpy consistence; matter, of a strong, and peculiar odour, and of a dirty brownish grey colour, begins to ooze out at its edges, and be- comes daily more copious. I he inflammation gradually subsides; the slough becomes loosened, and finally detached, leaving the subjacent mus- cles, bones, fasciae, or ligaments, completely ex- posed. When the constitution is not prone to acute inflammation, the slough remains long adherent; the discharge is verv copious, and burrows under the skin, which then mortifies. Sometimes, after the detachment of a slough, florid granulations spring up, and, notwithstand- ing a slight recurrence of the phagedenic ulcera- tion, the parts heal up by the almost unassisted operations of nature. However, most commonly, after the muscles are exposed, they continue to be gradually dissected ; their connecting cellular membrane is completely destroyed, and they are left covered with an offensive, greasy-looking matter. According to Mr. Blackadder, when a mus- cle has been wounded, it swells sometimes to a great size, and quickly assumes the appearance of a large coagulum, being altogether deprived of irritability. When it has not been wounded, but has become inflamed, it generally assumes a pale colour, with an appearance as if distended with a fluid, and, occasionally, before losing its vitality, acquires a very surprising bulk; but, when no inflammation has supervened, the muscles become of a pale brick colour, waste away daily, and the patient loses all power in them. As the disease advances, the integuments are under- mined and slough ; and hemorrhage from small vessels is a common occurrence; but, in a more advanced stage, some of the large vessels are apt to give way, and the bleeding from them frequently destroys the patient. “ When a stump is the site of the disease, .and the patient is of a plethoric habit, or accus- tomed to live freely, the symptoms soon begin to indicate the existence of an intense inflamma- tory action through its whole substance, the tumefaction, pain, and heat increase rapidly, so that, in a few days, the stump shall have acquired more than twice its former size, being at tire same time much indurated, and causing the most excruciating pain. In this state, the patient has, in some instances, become delirious, and has been cut off by an effusion taking place into some of the larger cavities. It more commonly happens, however, that gangrene seizes upon the integu- ments, and cellular substance; large sloughs are thrown off; and some of the large blood-vessels giving way, the patient sinks under the effects of repeated hemorrhage. For it is commonly found, that the usual modes of stopping hemorrhage from a stump are, in such cases, either inadmis- sible, or totally inefficacious. “ Sometimes, the progress of the disease in a stump is more gradual, but in the end nearly as fatal; the inflammation is much less acute; there is comparatively but little tumefaction, and the pain is much less severe; but, the discharge is much more copious, and the cellular substance, connecting the integuments and muscles, is ra- pidly destroyed. Hemorrhage generally comes on later, than in the preceding instance, but, it is the most common cause of death” (Blackadder on Phagcdaenu Gangramosa, p. 33—39.) It is observed by another writer, that artery seems to be the texture, which resists most powerfully the destructive action of hospital gan- grene ; (Thomson's Lectures, p. 460,) a remark