GU I-IERNIA. the sac to the cremaster muscle and other sur- rounding parts? “ While the inguinal hernia is recent, and not of much size, the cellular substance in question, possesses all its elasticity, and hence, the hernial sac and the spermatic cord, may easily ascend towards the abdominal ring. I have had occa- sion (says Scarpa) to make this observation upon the dead body of a man, who had an incipient in- guinal hernia. The small hernial sac was ca- pable of being pushed back into the ring with the utmost facility; and in carefully examining the parts, both within and without the belly, it ap- peared to me, that the cellular substance, which united the sac to the spermatic cord and cremas- ter muscle, was disposed to yield equally from without inwards, and in the direction precisely opposite; that is to say, it made an equal resist- ance to the protrusion and the reduction of the hernial sac. Monteggia has seen a case exactly similar: although, according to his own expres- sions, (Instituz. Chirurg. T.3,sex. 2, p. ‘id 9,) the hernial sac was not very small, it adhered very loosely to the surrounding parts, and it ad- mitted of being entirely reduced into the abdo- men with great facility.’’ In large old scrotal herniae Scarpa allows, that such reduction is quite impracticable: “ In these, the cellular substance, which unites the sac to the spermatic cord, and cremaster muscle, lias acquired such a density, that it does not op- pose less resistance to the further enlargement of the hernia, than to the efforts of the surgeon, who endeavours to effect its reduction.” (Scar- pa, Traits dcs Hemic.?, p. 57, <|'C.) Though Scarpa thus reasons about the elasticity of the cellular substance, as forming the connexion be- tween the sac and surrounding parts, many sur- geons would refer the connexion to the adhesive inflammation, and explain the diminution and shrinking of parts, after the distention and weight are removed, not by the elasticity of the cellu- lar substance in particular, but by the same pro- perty inherent generally in the elongated parts, which elasticity, and the action of the absorbents together, produce the alteration in question. We shall conclude this anatomical account of the inguinal hernia, with the following explana- tion of the parts as they appear on dissection: “ the removal of the integuments exposes the exterior investment of the hernial tumor, con- tinuous with the margins of the ring, arid formed of tendinous fibres from the aponeurosis, the cremaster muscle, &c. This is connected by cellular substance with the proper hernial sac, formed of the peritonaeum. This production of the peritonaeum passes within the ring of the external oblique, and then goes upwards and out- wards. Behind and above the ring, the inferior margin of the obliquus internus and transversalis crosses the neck of the sac. When these mus- cles are reflected towards the linea alba, the fas- cia, ascending from Poupart’s ligament, and forming the upper opening of the ring, is ex- posed, and the -epigastric artery is discovered emerging from the inner side of the neck of the hernial sac, (Camperi leaves, Tab. X. F. M.) which, at this precise point, becomes continuous with the peritoneum, lining the abdomen. The removal of the hernial sac will disclose the course of the spermatic cord in its descent towards the testicle; and when this is also elevated, the first part of the course of the epigastric artery, and its origin from the iliac trunk, are exposed.’’ (Lawrence on Hernia, p. 182, Edit. 3.) In females, the round ligament of the uterus bears the same relation to the tumor, as the sper- matic cord in males. In the former subjects, bubonoceles are uncommon. Mr. Lawrence hud a very rare instance pointed out to him, in which a bubonocele in a female was situated on the inner side of the epigastric artery. A still rarer case was examined by Hcsselhach : it was not only an example of internal bubonocele in a woman, but of one in which the epigastric ar- tery arose from the obturatrix artery an inch from the origin of this latter vessel from the in- ner side of the external iliac : the obturatrix first passed an inch obliquely downwards and inwards over the crural vein, and immediately afterwards, on the horizontal ramus of the pubes, made a sudden turn backward and downward to the ob- turator foramen; and at this bend arose the epi- gastric artery, which ran transversely inward along the horizontal ramus of the pubes, behind the neck of the hernial sac, at the inner side of which it ascended to the rectus muscle, accom- panied by the ligamentous remains of the umbi- lical arteries, which were close behind it. (Ucber den Ur sprung, fyc. dcr Lcislcn und Schcnkel• lniche, p. 17.) MARKS OF DISCRIMINATION BETWEEN OTHER DISEASES AND INGUINAL HERNI2E. The disorders, in which a mistake may pos- sibly be made, are Cirsocele, Bubo, Hydrocele, and Hernia Humoralis, or Inflamed Testicle. For an account of the manner of distinguish- ing the first complaint from a bubonocele, see Cirsocele. “ The circumscribed incompressible hardness, the situation of the tumor, and its being free from all connexion with the spermatic process, will sufficiently point out a bubo, at least while it is in a recent state ; and when it is in any de- gree suppurated, he must have a very small share of the tactus cruditus, who cannot feel the dif- ference between matter, and either a piece of in- testine, or omentum. “ The perfect equality of the whole tumor, the freedom and smallness of the spermatic pro- cess above it, the power of feeling the spermatic vessels and the vas deferens in that process, its being void of pain upon being handled, the fluc- tuation of the water, the gradual formation of the swelling, its having begun below and proceeded upwards, its not being affected by any posture or action of the patient, nor increased by his couch- ing or sneezing, together with the absolute im- possibility of feeling the testicle at the bottom of the scrotum, will always, to an intelligent person, prove the disease to be a hydrocele.” Mr. Pott, however, allows, that there are some ex- ceptions, in which the testicle cannot be felt at the bottom of the scrotum in cases of hernia. “ In recent bubonoceles, while the hernial sac is thin, has not been long, or very much distended, and the scrotum still preserves a regularity of figure, the testicle may almost always be easily felt at the inferior and posterior part of the tu- mor. But, in old ruptures, which have Veen long r