PTERYGIUM. 947 s common a complaint as the varicous chronic phthalmy, so often occupying the white of the ye, if the delicate continuation of the conjunc- va, over the surface of the cornea, were not aturaliy of a denser, and more compact texture, ian the rest of the membrane, from which it is roduced, and if its vessels were not very mi- ute, and delicate, and not so dilatable as those l f the other part of the conjunctiva. This is th^ . eason why the pterygium is comparatively a I ire case, in respect to the great frequency of I aricous, chronic ophthalmies. But, should the I essels of the transparent layer of the conjunc- tiva once yield to the impulse of the fluid pro- | elled into them 4 should they once become vari- I ose; the cellular texture, in which they are I nveloped, never fails to swell gradually, and, I tius, the delicate, diaphanous membrane in ques- I ion, changes into a pulpy, reddish tunic, pre- > I: isely similar to the pterygium. That the pterygium is truly nothing else but I he natural, delicate, transparent expansion of I he conjunctiva, on the cornea, converted, for a I certain extent, into a pulpy flaccid varicous | membrane, maybe inferred (continues Scarpa) I 'rom the folds, which the pterygium and con- I unctiva form at the same time, when the mor- I bid eye is turned towards the origin of the dis- l iase. The same inference is equally deducible ■••from the tension occasioned in both these parts, hwhenever the eye is moved in the opposite di- ll rection. We become still more convinced of the I: fact on observing, that in the first position of 1'ithe eye, both the pterygium and the correspond- ing portion of the conjunctiva (which is equally r relaxed, varicous, and reddish,) may be easily taken hold of with a small pair of forceps, and raised together in the form of a fold. The pterygium is observed by Mr. Travers to be most prevalent in warm climates. (Synopsis, <|*c. p. 101.) It is also said to be most frequent in old people, though Mr. Wardrop, and Dr. Monteath have seen it in very young infants (Weller's Manual of the Diseases of the Eye, Vol. 1, p. 218.) The constancy of the triangular figure of the pterygium, with its basis on the white of the eye, and its apex on the cornea, is one of its prin- cipal diagnostic characters, by which the true disease may be discriminated from every other soft, fungous, reddish excrescence, obscuring the cornea. For, on this membrane, excrescences sometimes form, which, from having the colour and consistence of a soft membrane, bear a very great resemblance to the pterygium, though they are really widely different, and, strictly speaking, consist of the texture of the cornea itself, dege- nerated into a soft, fungous substance. Such pel- licles, however, not only almost always create a greater prominence on the cornea, than what accompanies the pterygium, but they are con- stantly of an irregular tuberous form, and never represent a triangle, with the apex pointing to- wards the centre of the cornea, like the genuine pterygium. _ Another ,distinguishing character of ptery- gium, as Scarpa has observed, is the facility, with which the whole of it may be taken hold of with a pair of forceps, and raised into a fold on the cornea. Every other kind of excrescence, at- tached to this membrane, continues firmly adhe- rent to it, and cannot be folded, and raised from the surface of the cornea, in any manner what- ever. This particularity is of the highest import- ance in the treatment of the disease; for, the genuine pterygium may be cured by simple means, while fungous excrescences of the cor- nea, can only be radically removed, and perfectly cicatrized with the utmost difficulty. Plenck very properly observes, on this head : Pterygia, qua jilamentis solummodb adherent, facile ah- scinduntur, difficilivie qua uhiquc accreta s2int cornea, ac inplicam elevari non possunt. Scarpa’s belief in the reality of a malignant or cancerous pterygium must appear a doctrine requiring confirmation, when it is considered, that Mr. Travers makes no mention of the dis- ease assuming this character, and Beer distinctly states, that, in a practice of thirty-two years, he has cured 376 pterygia, of various sizes and thick- ness, without one bad symptom, or consequence. And, hence, hejustly concludes, that the disease is strictly local. (B. 2, p. 641.) This state- ment, however, is qualified with the condition, that the knife only be employed when requisite, and that no considerable portion of the disease be left unremoved. The true benign pterygium, says Scarpa, which has a triangular figure, is ash-coloured, or pale-red, is free from pain, and admits of being raised in the form of a fold on the surface of the cornea, may be cured by cutting the opaque triangular little membrane accurately from the surface of the cornea, which is in part covered by it. But, as it appears, from what has been said, that the pterygium is nothing, but a portion of the delicate, transparent layer of the conjunc- tiva, converted by chronic varicous ophthalmy into a thick, opaque tunic, it follows, that the pterygium eannot be removed in any way, with- out the spot, which it occupies, on the cornea, being bereft of its natural external covering. Also, as this denudation of the cornea renders a cicatrix unavoidable at the place, it equally fol- low's, that the knife cannot be employed in the cure of the disease, without the cornea being rendered more or less opaque at the part, where the pterygium was before situated. Scarpa’s experience enables him to state, how- ever, that the superficial, indelible speck, remain- ing on the cornea, after the recision of the ptery- gium, is always less extensive, than the space previously occupied by the disease. It is customary (says Scarpa) to remove the pterygium by making the incision on the cornea, and extending it over the white of the eye, as far as the base of the disease reaches on the con- junctiva; so that when the pterygium grows from the internal angle of the eye, most surgeons con- tinue the section as far as the caruncula. This practice is disadvantageous, first, because it de- nudes too much of the white of the eye; se- condly, because, in consequence of the large por- tion of the conjunctiva removed at the base of the pterygium, and, in consequence of the direc- tion of the wound, the cicatrix in the white of the eye, forms an elevated frnenum, which, like a littie cord, keeps the eyeball approximated to the caruncula lachrymalis, and destroys the freedom of its motions, particularly, towards the external angle. In the treatment of pterygia with bases ex- 3 P 2