774 LITHOTOMY. lowing manner. The patient being placed, and tied much in the same way, as is done at this day, the operator introduces a hollow grooved steel catheter into the bladder, and with a syringe, mounted with an ox’s ureter, injects as much warm water iVito it, as the patient can bear with- out pain. The water being kept from running out by a slip of flannel tied round the penis, the end of the catheter is to be held by an assistant, whose principal care is to keep it from rising, but not at all to direct the groove to the place, where the incision is to be made. With a pointed convex-edged knife, the ope- rator beginning about an inch above the anus, on the left side of the raphe, between the accelerator urinre, and erector penis, makes an incision down- wards, by the side of the sphincter ani, a little obliquely outwards as it descends, from two and a half to four inches in length, according to the age of the patient, or size and structure of the parts. This incision he endeavours to make all at one stroke, so as to cut through the skin, fat, and all, or part, of the levator ani, which lies in his way. This done, he passes his left fore- finger into the middle of the wound, in order to press the rectum to one side, that it may be in less danger of being cut; and taking a crooked knife in his other hand, with the edge on the concave side, he thrusts the point of it through the wound, close by his finger, into the bladder, between the vesicula seminalis and os ischium of the same side. This second incision is continued upwards, till the point of the knife comes out at the upper part of the first. The incision being completed, the operator passes his left fore- finger through the wound into the bladder, and fiaving felt, and secured the stone, he introduces the forceps, pulls out his finger, and extracts the stone. As thebladderwas distended, Cheselden thought it unnecessary to cut on the groove of the staff, and that, as this viscus was sufficiently pressed down by the instrument, the forceps could be very well introduced without the use of any di- rector, except the finger. (Postscript to Dou- glas's History of the Lateral Operation, 1726.) With respect to this first of Cheselden's plans, Sharp says, the operations were exceedingly dexterous; but the wound of the bladder retiring back, when it was empty, did not leave a ready issue for the urine, which insinuated itself among the neighbouring muscles and cellular substance, and four out of the ten patients on whom the operation was done perished, and some of the qthers narrowly escaped. (Sharp's Operations.) Cheselden, finding that he lost so many pa- tients, in imitating Raw, according to the di- rections given by Albinus, began a new manner of operating, which he thus describes: “ I first make as long an incision as I well can, begin- ning near the place, where the old operation ends, and cutting down between the musculus accele- rator urinac and erector penis, and by the side of the intestinum rectum: I then feel for the staff, and cut upon it the length of the prostate gland straight on to the bladder, holding down the gut all the while with one, or two fingers of my left hand.” (Anatomy of the Human Body, Edit. 1730.) It deserves remark, that it was Cheselden’s second manner of cutting, which was described in the Opuscules de Chirurgic, of Morand, who was deputed, and had his expenses defrayed by the Itoyal Academy of Sciences in Paris, to come over to England, and learn from Mr. Cheselden himself, his way of operating for the stone; and, accordingly, we find, that most French authors, taking their account from Morand, describe Cheselden’s second, not his third operation, as that which he invented, and bears his name. But, that Mr. Cheselden never resumed his second manner of cutting may be inferred from his continuing to describe the third only in all the editions of his anatomy published after 17 30. (See a note by J. Thomson, M. D. annexed to his new edition of Douglas's Ap- pendix. Edinb. 1808.) The instruments, which Cheselden employed in his third, and most improved, mode of cutting for the stone, were a staff, an incision knife, a gorget, a pair of forceps, and a crooked needle carrying a waxed thread. The patient being placed on a table, his wrists are brought down to the outsides of his ankles, and secured there by proper bandages, his knees having first been bent, and his heels brought back near his buttocks. Cheselden used then to take a catheter, first dipped in oil, and introduce it into the bladder, where having searched for, and discovered the stone, he gave the instrument to one of his col- leagues, whom he desired to satisfy himself, whether there was a stone, or not. The as- sistant, standing on his right hand, held the handle of the staff between his fingers and thumb, inclined it a little towards the patient’s right thigh, and drew the concave side close up to the os pubis, in order to remove the urethra as far as possible from the rectum. The groove of the staff being thus turned outwardly and laterally, Cheselden sat down in a low chair, and, keeping the skin of the peri- naeum steady with the thumb and fore-finger of his left hand, he made the first or outward in- cision, through the integuments, from above downwards, beginning on the left side of the raphe, between the scrotum and verge of the anus, almost as high up as where the skin of the peri- nseum begins to form the bag containing the testicles. Thence, he continued the wound ob- liquely outwards, as low down as the middle of the margin of the anus, at about half an inch distant from it, and, consequently, beyond the tuberosity of the ischium. He was always careful to make this outward wound as large as he could with safety. Having cut the fat rather deeply, especially near the rectum, he used to put his left fore-finger into the wound, and keep it there till the internal incision was quite finished; first to direct the point of his knife into the groove of the staff which he now felt with the end of his finger; and secondly, to hold and prevent the rec- tum from being wounded, by the side of which his knife was to pass. This inward incision Cheselden made with more caution, than the former. His knife first entered the groove of the rostrated, or straight part of the staff, through the side of the bladder, immediately above the prostate, and its point was afterwards brought along the same groove in the direction downwards, and forwards, or towards himself. Cheselden thus divided that part of the sphincter of the bladder, which lay upon the prostate gland, of which he next cut the