iU 82 URETHRA. In old cases of stricture, the muscular coat of the bladder becomes thickened and stronger than natural, in consequence of more force being necessary to propel the urine through the ob- structed part. The bladder, in this thickened state, does not admit of the usual dilatation, so that the patient is obliged to make water very frequently, and he is unable to pass the whole night without making this evacuation once or twice. (Home.) A nocturnal emission of the semen is another very common symptom of a stricture; and some patients seem to have no other complaint attend- ant on the disease of the urethra. A periodical discharge is sometimes brought on by cold, or other occasional causes. When, the inflammation extends to the bladder; the frequency of making water is considerably in- creased, and the urine very turbid. It is voided for twelve, or twenty-four hours, once or even twice every hour; and, when allowed to stand, it deposits a substance in the form of powder, consisting of coagulable lymph. This is the slightest kind of attack. Sometimes the bladder is inflamed in a greater degree, and secretes pus, which is discharged with the urine. In a still more violent attack, the discharge is similar to the white of an egg, and particularly adhesive. Sir Everard Home states, that it has been discovered by examinations after death, to be the vitiated secretion of the prostate gland. When the inflammation of the bladder becomes still worse, the affection some- times extends to the peritoneum, and the patient dies. As strictures of long standing always im- pede the passage of the urine, the bladder acts with augmented force to overcome the resistance. In this manner, the stricture is kept in a conti- nual state of irritation, and the obstruction be- comes more and more considerable. In a few cases, indeed, the diseased part of the urethra is rendered quite impervious; and the patient’s life is preserved by the urethra ulcera- ting, at some point within the obstruction, and fistulous openings taking place in the perinaeum. See Fistula; in Perinoso. Strictures are frequently attended with consti- tutional symptoms, one of the most common of which, in warm climates, is a complete paroxysm of fever. The cold fit is very severe; this is followed by a hot fit, and then a very profuse perspiration. During the rigor, nausea and vo- miting generally occur, and at this period the patient has occasion to make water frequently, seldom experiencing at the same time any strangury. When the fit is tolerably complete, the patient suffers, in general, only one; in the opposite circumstance, two; but a greater num- ber rarely happen. Such febrile paroxysms are not frequent in cold countries; but do every now and then take place, particularly in con- sequence of exposure to cold, excesses, and the introduction both of common and armed bougies. According to the principles of Sir Everard Home, the longitudinal muscular fibres on the outside of the membrane ol the urethra, are liable to a spasmodic contraction, in which state their swell lessens the diameter of the passage, and they the spasm is removed. This spasmodic stric- ture is only a wrong action of these longitudinal fibres; and, if the parts could be examined in their relaxed state, there would be no appearance of disease. When the contraction is not considerable, it appears, on examination after death, to be merely a narrowing of the urethra; but a permanent stricture, in a more advanced state, usually con- sists of a ridge, which forms a projection in the passage. {Home.) Mr. Hunter informs us, that the disease ge- nerally occupies no great length of the passage; at least, that this was the case in most of the instances, which he examined. In these cases, the contraction was not broader, than if it had been produced bv surrounding the urethra with a piece of packthread; and in many it had a good deal of the appearance, which one may fancy such a cause would produce. Mr. Hunter states, however, that he had seen the urethra contracted for above an inch in length, owing to its coats, or internal membrane, being irregularly thick- ened, and forming a winding canal. A stricture does not always arise from an equal contraction of the urethra all round; for, in some instances, the contraction is only on one side; a fact, which appears to me to be better accounted for by the consideration of the longi- tudinal arrangement of the muscular fibres in packets, on the outside of the membrane of the urethra, than the circular kind of stricture, only occupying as small an extent of the passage, as the constriction, which would arise from the application of a piece of packthread round it. The contraction of one side of the canal only throws the passage to the opposite side, winch often renders the introduction of a bougie diffi- cult. The contracted part is whiter than the rest of the urethra, and is harder in its consist- ence. In some cases, there are several stric- tures. Mr. Hunter mentions his having seen half a dozen in one urethra, and he observes, that a stricture is frequently attended with small tightnesses in other parts of the passage. Mr. Hunter remarks, that every part of the urethra is not equally subject to strictures, the bulbous portion being much the most subject to the disease. A stricture is sometimes situated on this side of the bulb, but very seldom bej’ond it, that is, nearer the bladder. Mr. Hunter never saw a stricture in that part of the urethra, which passes through the prostate gland; and the bulb, besides being the most frequent scat of this disease, is also subject to it in its worst forms. (Hunter.) Sir Everard Home has measured the length of the urethra in different subjects, and examined the diameters of the several parts of the passage. Strictures, according to this gentleman, occur most commonly just behind the bulb of the ure- thra, the distance from the external orifice being G.4, or 7 inches. The situation, next in the or- der of frequency, is about 4-J inches from the orifice of the glans. The disease does also occur at 31 inches, and, sometimes, almost close to the external orifice, ffhe two parts of the urethra, most frequently afiected with strictures, are nu- turallv the narrowest. Sometimes the very