435 EXOSTOSIS. their progress. In the first ease, which, accord- ing to Boyer, happens most commonly in the cellular exostosis, described by authors under the name of laminuted, the appearance and formation of the tumor are quick - the swelling rapidly acquires a considerable size; and it is always preceded by, and accompanied with, continual violent pain, which the external and internal use of opium has little effect upon, and the intensity of which is not increased by pressure. The pain is sometimes so severe that it occasions a good deal of symptomatic fever. Boyer, who seems not to be aware of the origin of what he terms • the cellular, and what Mr. A. Cooper has named • fungous exostosis, from the medullary membrane, finds difficulty in accounting for the rapid growth, and great sensibility of the tumor, considering the natural density of the bones, and the little energy of their vital properties. In the hardest kinds of exostosis, says Boyer, 1 the tumor is preceded by no pain, or, if any, it is very slight; the tumor grows slowly; and, although it sometimes attains a considerable size, its increase is attended with no particular sensi- aility, and no disturbance of the animal eco- nomy. (Boyer, op. cic. T. 3, p. 546'.) Our ignorance of the pathology of exostoses, aarticularly their causes, accounts for the im- aerfeetion of our treatment of them. With the ixception of the venereal exostosis, or node, here is no species of this affection, for which, it ..:an be said, that we have any one medicine of rificaey. Boyer, and other writers on the diseases of he bones, seem to regard some exostoses as a erfectly inorganic mass of lime, and, conse- uentlv, they entertain no idea, that the ab- orbent vessels can possibly take away the par- oles of the tumor, just as the secerning arteries ave laid them down. Such writers, however, re well aware, that nodes are capable of being iminished, and this can only be effected by the :tion of the absorbent system. Boyer does acknowledge, indeed, that he has en a venereal exostosis of the humerus, as well ■ a few other bony swellings, subside; but : represents the event as extremely rare; and • advances it as a principle, that the resolution exostoses hardly ever happens, and that the eater part of the examples, recorded in proof the occurrence, were nothing more than peri toses. (P.547.) When an exostosis is hard, chronic, and free >m pain and alteration of the structure of the ne, it is a much more common thing for it to >se to enlarge and remain stationary during t, without producing inconvenience, provided se so situated as not to impede the functions any vital organ. But, in the cellular exostosis of Boyer, ich I take to be the same disease as thejun- i* exostosis of the medullary membrane of • • A. Cooper, the acute and rapid progress of ■ disease indicates a deeper and more serious •ration of the texture of the bone. A part of tumor usually consists of a pultaeeous, or atinous matter, and the rest, still endued h its natural organization, though altered by disease, soon presents one or several cavities, which there is suppuration. At the same e, the external soft parts, being excessively and rapidly distended, inflame, ulcerate, and leave exposed a more or less extensive portion of the tumor, the disease of which has in many cases been very wrongly supposed to be caries. It is not, observes Boyer, that the part of the swelling denuded by ulceration is not sometimes affected with caries; but, then it exists as a com- plication of the original disease, and as a parti- cularity, by no means the result of the ulceration of the soft parts, and of the exposure of the dis- eased bone to the contact of the air. When the soft parts are thus ulcerated, the opening con- tracts to a certain point, arid becomes fistulous. The suppuration is always of bad quality, and in a quantity proportioned to the size of the cavity of the abscess and the strength of the patient. The fever, which commences at an early period of the disorder, assumes a slow type, and its continuance, together with the copiousness of the ichorous discharge, the irritation, &c. may bring on the patient’s dissolution. The following are the symptoms of what Mr. A. Cooper denominates the fungous exostosis of the medullary membrane. The disease begins with a general enlargement of the affected part of the limb, extending a considerable way around the seat of the exostosis itself. This form of the complaint mostly occurs in young persons, though Mr. A. Cooper has seen it in an indi- vidual fifty years old. “ Its increase proceeds very gradually ; and even when it lias acquired considerable magnitude, although it produces some diminution of motion in the limb, it does not occasion pain, or prevent the patient from using it. When any pain does arise, it is of an obtuse kind, only being acute in the event of a nerve being stretched by the tumor. Thus an exostosis of the thigh bone sometimes causes great agony, by pressing on the sciatic nerve. Paleness, debility, and irregularity of the bowels, are observed to attend the early stage of the disease; and afterwards the complexion becomes sallow. In the mean time, the diseased part of the limb attains an enormous size ; but the skin retains its natural colour. At many points, the swelling feels bard; at others, it is so elastic as to cause the presence of fluid to be suspected ; but, if an opening be made, only blood is dis- charged. The surface of the tumor next be- comes tuberculated, and the prominences tender, and their surface is often slightly inflamed. The rest is now broken, the appetite impaired, and the bowels extremely irregular. At length, the tubercles ulcerate; the skin secretes pus; but,'when the swelling itself is- exposed, it dis- charges a bloody coloured serum. A fungus then forms, which sometimes bleeds profusely, and, after it lias risen very high, sloughing occurs, and considerable portions of the swelling are thrown off. But, although the swelling may be lessened by this process, Mr. A. Cooper has never known the disease cured by it; and, m the end, the patient is destroyed by the eflects ol the repeated bleeding, immense discharge, and constitutional irritation.” In this disease as in common fungus lisematodes, tumors of a similar nature are often formed in other parts of the body, and, after the amputation of the affected, bone, frequently make their appearance in organs of the greatest importance to life. I ho swelling is described as originating from the ^mcdull.uv