VENEREAL DISEASE. 1157 ten affects them with the specific inflammation, lie consequence is the formation of buboes, licit are venereal abscesses. These are exactly nilar to a chancre in their nature and effects, : only difference being in regard to size. As - lymphatic vessels and glands are irritated by !; specific matter, before it has undergone any , mge in its passage, the inflammation produced, 1 the matter secreted, partake of the specific jhlity. [Inflammation of the absorbent vessels them- \ ves is not nearly so frequent, as that of the . uds. In men, such inflammations, in conse- ence of chancres upon the glans, or prepuce, xierally appear, like a cord, leading along the vk of the jienis from the sores. Sometimes, absorbents inflame, in consequence of the ckening and excoriation of the prepuce in go- rrrhcea. The indurated lymphatics often ter- r.iate insensibly near the root of the penis, or ; :r the pubes; while, in other instances, they end further to a lymphatic gland in the groin. •. Hunter believed, that this affection of the orbent vessels is truly venereal. The for- it tion of a hard cord, he conceived, arose from , fickening of the coats of the absorbents, and :n an extravasation of coagulable lymph on ■ ir inner surface. A cord, of the above kind, often suppurates, aaetimes in more places than one, so as to form two, or three buboes, or small abscesses in 1 body of the penis. I inflammation much more frequently affects the lorbent glands, than the vessels. The struc- je of the former parts appear to consist of the unifications and reunion of the absorbent ves- .i. Fiom this structure, observes Mr. Hunter, may reasonably suppose, that the fluid ab- ibed is in some measure detained in the ■ nds, and thus has a greater opportunity of nmunicating the disease to them, than to the : finct vessels. >3wellings of the absorbent glands may origi- /efrom other diseases, and should be carefully i criminated from those which arise from the i lereal poison. With this view, Mr. Hunter fi ises us first to inquire into the cause, in order uscertain, whether there is any venereal com- i int at some greater distance from the heart,, h as chancres on the penis, or any preceding -case in this situation. He recommends us to u fire, whether any mercurial ointment has been . ill applied to the leg and thigh on the diseased ■:; for, mercury applied to those parts for the ee of a chancre, will sometimes cause glnndu- enlargements, which are occasionally mis ?n for venereal buboes. This irritation of the uinal glands by the mechanical action of mer- ial ointment, has also been particularly noticed ■ Professor Assalini, who states, that he has • frequent opportunities of convincing himself he fact. (See Mmnale di Chirurgia, p. ) Mr. Hunter reminds us to observe, whe- ■ there has been any preceding disease in the stitution, such as a cold, fever, &c. The »ak or slow progress of the swelling is like- e to be marked, and the tumor must be di- tguished from femoral hernia, lumbar ab- uses, and aneurisms of the crural artery. In ticular cases, it would appear, that some time ♦pses, before the venereal matter produces its effects on the absorbent glands after its absorp- tion. Mr. Hunter notices, that, sometimes, at least, six days transpire first; a circumstance, which can only be known by the chancres having healed six days before the bubo began to appear. However, as the last matter of a chancre is pro- bably not venereal, he infers, that, in cases of this kind, absorption must have taken place earlier, than other considerations would lead one to suppose. According to Mr. Hunter, in gene- ral, only the glands nearest to the seat of absorp- tion are attacked. Thus, when the matter is taken up from the penis in men, the inguinal glands are affected; and, when from the vulva in women, those glands swell, which are situated between the labium and thigh, and the round ligaments. It was one of Mr. Hunter’s opinions, that only one gland at n time is commonly affected by the absorption of venereal matter. If this sentiment be correct, the circumstance may be considered as a kind of criterion between venereal and other buboes. The second order of lymphatic vessels and glands are never affected; as, for instance, those along the iliac vessels, or back. Mr. Hunter informs us, that he also observed, that, when the disease was contracted by a sore, or cut upon the finger, the bubo occurred a little above the bend of the arm, by the side of the biceps muscle, and no swelling of this sort formed in the arm-pit. However, he had heard of a few rare cases, in which a swelling in the axilla was also produced. When buboes arise from a venereal disease on the penis, they are situated in the glands of the groin. When a bubo arises from a gonorrhoea, either groin may be attacked. But when the disease originates from a chancre, the bubo most frequently takes place in the nearest groin. The situation of the absorbent glands, how- ever, is not always exactly the same, and the course of the lymphatics therefore is subject to some variety. Hence, Mr. Hunter has seen a venereal bubo, produced by a chancre on the penis, situated a considerable way down the thigh ; he has also often seen buboes as high as the lower part of the belly, before Poupart's liga- ment; and sometimes near the pubes. At the present day, swellings of the femoral glands are never considered venereal. The seat of absorption is more extensive in the female sex, and the course of some of the absorb- ents is also different. lienee, buboes in women may occur in three situations, two of which are totally different from those in men. When chancres are situated forwards, near the meatus urinarius, nyrnplue, clitoris, labia, or mons veneris, the absorbed matter is generally conveyed along one, or both of the round liga- ments, and the buboes are formed in those liga- ments, just before they enter the abdomen. Mr. Hunter suspected such buboes not to be glandu- lar ones ; but, only inflamed absorbents. When chancres are situated far back, near or on the perinaeum, the absorbed matter is carried forward along the angle, between the labium and the thigh, to the glands in the groin, and often, in this course, small buboes are formed in the ab- sorbents similar to those abscesses which occur on the penis in men. When the effects of the poison do not rest