736 JOINTS. and, if it be the hip, knee, or ankle, which is af- fected, the patient keeps the knee rather bent, and never fully extends it in progression. (On Scro- phtila, p. 1,1B.) In some instances, the swelling yields in a certain degree to pressure; but it never pits, and is almost always sufficiently firm to make an uninformed examiner believe, that the bones contribute to the tumor. It is remarked bv Mr. Brodie, that, while the disease is going on in the cancellous structure of the bones, before its effects have extended to the other textures, and while there is still no evident swelling, the patient experiences some degree of pain, which, however, is never very severe, and often is so slight, that it is scarcely noticed. After a time, varying from a few weeks to several months, the external parts begin to swell, and serum and coagulable lymph to be effused in the cellular membrane, so as to form a, puffy, elastic swelling. (Pathol. Ohs.}). 231.) In the majority of scrophulous white swellings, let the pain be trivial, or more severe, it is particularly situated in one part of the joint; viz. either the centre of the arti- culation, or the head of the tibia. Sometimes, the pain continues without interruption ; some- times there are intermissions ; and, in other in- stances, the pain recurs at regular times, so as to have been called by some writers, periodical. Almost all authors describe the patient, as suf- fering more uneasiness in the diseased part, when he is warm, and, particularly, when he is in this condition in bed. In the early stage of the disease, the swelling is mostly very inconsiderable, or there is even no visible enlargement whatever, excepting perhaps after exercise. In the little depressions, na- turally situated on each side of the patella, a full- ness generally first shews itself, and gradually spreads all over the affected joint. According to Mr. Lloyd, however, when the soft parts, on the outside of the knee joint, permanently swell, the swelling often commences on each side, just behind the condyles, so that the joint appears wider, and he says, that he has often seen the enlargement commence by the swelling of a gland, immediately above the inner condyle. He observes, however, that there is no point of the joint, where the swelling may not begin. (Op. cit. p. 139.) The patient, unable to bear the weight of his body on the disordered joint, in consequence of the great increase of pain, thus created, gets into the habil of only touching the ground with his toes, and the knee being generally kept a little bent in this manner, soon loses the capacity of being completely extended again. When white- swellings have lasted a good while, the knee is almost always found in a permanent state of flexion. In scrophulous cases, the pain constantly precedes any appearance of swelling; but the interval between the two symptoms differs very much in different subjects. The morbid joint, in the course of time, ac- quires a vast magnitude. Still the integuments retain their natural colour, and remain unaffected. The enlargement, however, always seems greater than it really is, in consequence of the emaciation of the limb both above and below the disease. An appearance of blue distended veins, and a shining smoothness, are the only alterations to be noticed in the skin covering the enlarged joint. The shining smoothness seems attri- butable to the distention, which obliterates the natural furrows and wrinkles of the cutis. When the joint is thus swollen, the integuments cannot be pinched up into a fold, as they could in the state of health, and even in the beginning of the disease. As the distemper of the articulation advances, the cartilages ulcerate, and collections of matter form around the part, and at length burst. Their progress, as Mr. Brodie has stated, is slow, and when they burst, or are opened, they discharge a j thin pus, with portions of a curdy substance float- >1] mg in it. The discharge afterwards becomes less copious, and thicker. (Pathol. Ohs. p. 234.) The ulcerated openings sometimes heal up; but, such abscesses are generally followed by other collections, which pursue the same course. In some cases, these abscesses form a few months after the first affection of the joint; on other occasions, several years elapse, and no suppura- tion of this kind makes its appearance. They sometimes communicate with the cavity of the diseased joint, or lead down to diseased bone, portions of which occasionally exfoliate. In the generality of cases, several abscesses take place in succession, some healing up, and others ending in sinuses. As the cartilages continue to ulcerate, Mr. Brodie has observed, that the pain becomes ag- gravated, though not in a very great degree, and, he says, that it is not severe, until an abscess has formed, and the parts over it are distended and inflamed. (Pathol. Ohs. p. 234.) The local mischief must necessarily produce more or less constitutional disturbance. The | patient’s health becomes gradual^ impaired, he loses his appetite and natural rest and sleep; his pulse is small and frequent; an obstinate debili- tating diarrhoea, and profuse nocturnal sweats |jj ensue. These complaints are, sooner or later, K; followed by dissolution, unless the constitution tt) be relieved in time, either by the amendment, I or removal, of the diseased part. In different I patients, however, the course of the disease, and its effects upon the system, vary con- siderably, in relation to the rapidity, with which they occur. Rheumatic white-swellings, or inflammations and thickenings of the synovial membrane from cold, or other causes, are very distinct diseases s from the scrophulous distemper of the large joints, j In the first, the pain is said never to occur with- : out being attended with swelling. Scrophulous white-swellings, on the other hand, are always i i preceded by a pain, which is particularly confined I to one point of the articulation. In rheumatic ii cases, the pain is more general, and diffused over it- the whole joint. Mr. Lloyd thinks, that the scrophulous white- 5' swelling may be distinguished from all other dis- Ijv eases of the joints, by its being attended with less j pain, by the great degree of external swelling Ip. often existing for a long time before matter formsi I ■ in the cavity of the articulation, and by the swell-* k ing being but little diminished by any discharge* Ik of matter, which may take place. In its firsti ' stage, before the interior of the joint is affectedJ w it may be distinguished from primary ulecration| t- of the cartilages, by the pain not being much in *4 ^ creased by motion. The grating, produced byt 4,