BLADDER. 219 the part, where it is intended to make the punc- ture. We read in the Philosophical Transactions for 1776, of a case of total retention of urine, from strictures, where the bladder was successfully punctured from the rectum. Mr. Hamilton, who did the operation, thought of the plan, in consequence of feeling the bladder exceedingly prominent in the rectum, on introducing his fin- ger into the anus. The patient was placed in the same position as that for lithotomy; a trocar was passed along the finger into the anus, and pushed into the low- est, and most projecting part of the swelling, in the direction of the axis of the bladder. A straight catheter was immediately introduced through the cannula, lest the bladder by contracting should quit the latter, which was taken away, and, as soon as the water was discharged, the catheter was also removed. Notwithstanding the punc- ture, the bladder retained the urine as usual, until a desire to make water occurred. Then the opening made by the instrument seemed to ex- pand, and the water flowed in a full stream from the anus. The urine came away, in this manner, two days, after which it passed the natural way, with the aid of a bougie, which had been passed through the urethra, into the bladder, and which was used, till all the disease in this canal was cured. The method is said to have been originally pro- posed in 1750, by M. Fleurant, surgeon of the hospital La Chante, at Lyons ; and Pouteau, in 1760, published an account of it, and three eases in which Fleurant had operated. It was also the feel of the bladder, on the introduction of a fin- ger inlra annm, which led the latter surgeon to choose making a puncture in this situation. The urine was immediately discharged, and the can- nula supported in its place with the T bandage, until the natural passage was rendered pervious again. But the cannula, being allowed to remain in the rectum, became incommodibus to the pa- tient, when he went to stool, and, the inconveni- ence was vastly increased by the continual drib- bling of the urinefrom the mouth of the instrument. Hamilton avoided both these inconveniences, by withdrawing the cannula at first. In another in- stance, however, Fleurant left the cannula in the anus and bladder, thirty-nine days, without the least inconvenience. In order to lessen the inconvenience, attend- ing the presence of the cannula, Fleurant sug- gested that it would be better to have the tube made of a flexible substance; a proposal, that seems to merit attention, though, I believe, the inconveniences of wearing the cannula are not in general very serious, and, were a case of this kind to present itself, I should have no hesitation in withdrawing the tube altogether. In the first volume of the Mem. of the Medical Society of London, two cases are related, in which, after tapping the bladder from the rectum, the cannula was immediately withdrawn, without any had effect; and a similar fact is recorded in the u Medical Communicutiotif, Vot. 1. A curved trocar, of sufficient length, is the est for performing the operation, and was re- 'ommended by Pouteau. As the trocar with a anort-point may cut blood vessels, which 'vou <1I bleed freely, some authors express their preference to one made with a triangular point. (Howship, p. 215.) It should be introduced into the prominence made by the distended bladder, a little beyond the prostate gland, exactly in the centre of the front of the rectum ; but not impru- dently far up the intestine, lest the peritoneum be injured. For some useful cautions on this head, the profession are indebted to Mr. Carpue, who has very properly adverted to the very low point, to which the portion of peritoneum reflect- ed over the rectum descends. (Hist. of the High Operation, 6)C. p. 178,8vo. Loud. 1819.) By keeping the point of the trocar in the centre of the anterior part of the rectum, and not intro- ducing it without first distinctly feeling with the end of the finger, the exact place into which it is to enter, the vesiculae seminales, which diverge from each other above, will not be wounded ; and even were they so, perhaps no serious conse- quences would follow. It is not necessary to retain the cannula in the puncture, after the inflammation has consolidated the sides of the wound, and there is no danger of the aperture closing up, till there is another pas- sage made for the urine. Sir E. Home thinks, that, after about thirty-seven hours, the cannula may be properly taken out. (Trans, of a Sac. for Med. and Chir. Knowledge, Vol. 2.) In- deed, I am not acquainted with any fact, showing the ill effect of removing the cannula at once; for, here the urine has only to pass through a mere opening, without any longitudinal extent, likewhat remains after puncturing above the pubes. The safety and simplicity of tapping the bladder from the rectum, will always recommend this method to impartial practitioners. The wound is made at a distance from the peritoneum, passes through no thickness of parts, and is quite unattended with any chance of the urine becoming extrava- sated in the cellular substance. Whether the bladder be morbidly contracted and thivkened ; whether the neck of the bladder be inflamed ; it is equally applicable : enlargement of the pros- tate gland, and much disease in the rectum, can alone warrant the puncture above the pubes be- ing ever preferred. I am happy to join the experienced and judi- cious Mr. Hey with the advocates for this mode of performing the operation, and as his opinion on this subject must have considerable influence, I shall quote the following passage from his valuable work, particularly as the observations confirm some other points, adverted to in the pre- sent article. “ It is sometimes impossible, from various causes, to make a catheter pass through the urethra. The puncture of the bladder then becomes necessary, if the retention of urine con- tinues. This operation may bo performed, either above the pubes, or through the rectum. I have seen it performed in both these methods; but, give the preference to the latter. It is more easy to the surgeon ; and less painful to the pa- tient. Poiiteau’s curved trocar is a very conve- nient instrument; and may be used with safety for puncturing the bladder through the rectum ; but, the operator should cautiously avoid wound- ing an artery, which may be felt running towards the anus, where the bladder is most protuberant. The finger, which is introduced into the rectum to guide the trocar, mny bo conveniently placed a little on either side of this vessel. It is not always necessary to leave the cannula in the