158 ANEURISM. is to hare its convexity downwards, and to begin about an inch from the sternal eud of the clavicle, being continued to wafts the acromion for the ex- tent of three or four inches, so as to end near the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, without reaching into the space between the deltoid and pectoral muscle, in order to avoid wounding the cephalic vein. This incision will expose the libres of the pectoral muscle, which are now to be di- vided in the direction and extent of the external wound. I he flap is then to be raised, by dividing the loose cellular membrane, which connects the pectoral muscle to the parts underneath it. The pectoral is minor will now be seen crossing the inferior part of the wound; and by introducing his finger between the upper edge of this muscle and the clavicle, the surgeon may feel the pulsa- tions of the axillary artery. Here one of the cervical nerves lies above, but in contact with the artery; the other nerves are behind it. In the dead subject, the axillary vein is situated below it; but, in the living, the vein is distended, and conceals the artery. The cellular membrane, connecting these parts, is to be separated by care- ful dissection, or by lacerating it with a blunt in- strument. A ligature having been drawn under the artery with an aneurism-needle, the ends of the cord are to be raised, and a finger passed down, so as to compress the part surrounded by the ligature. If the artery be included, the pul- sation in the aneurism will immediately cease. This precaution is highly necessary, lest one of the cervical nerves should be tied, instead of the artery. (See Hutlgstm on Diseases of Arteries, t^c. ]}. 36'2.) When an aneurism extends a certain way in- wards, or towards the trachea, the operation be- low the clavicle becomes impracticable, and it is now requisite to make the incision above that bone, and take up the subclavian artery at the point, where it comes out from between the scaleni muscles, and lies on the flat surface of the first rib. In the dead subject, without any tumor under the clavicle, this operation is easy enough; but in a living patient, the difficulty is much in- creased, by a large axillary aneurism, for then the clavicle becomes so much elevated, and the artery lies so deeply below it, that the vessel can hardly have a ligature carried under it, with- out a particular needle for the purpose. This was the case in an attempt which I once saw made to tie the artery, and in which one of the cervical nerves, affected by the pulsation of the artery, was mistaken for it, and tied, so that the aneurism soon afterwards burst, and a fatal hemorrhage arose. Hence, the advice given by my friend Mr. Hodgson always to operate in this case while the tumor is small, cannot be too well re- membered. The chief difficulty in the operation is that of passing the ligature under the artery; but, it may be done with the aid of an ingenious needle, which Mr. Ramsden has described, and which is exactly similar in principle to Desault’s aiguille il restart* In order to avoid the inconveniences of the needles ordinarily used for conveying ligatures under deep arteries, Desault (says Bichat) in- vented “ une aiguille a ressort,” composed of a silver tube, or sheath, which was straight at one end, and bent at the other in a semicircular form. This sheath enclosed an elastic wire, the project- ing extremity of which was accurately fitted to the end of the sheath, and perforated with a transverse eye. The instrument was passed un- der the artery, and, as soon as it had reached the other side of the vessel, the sheath was kept fixed, while an assistant pushed the elastic wire, which, rising from the bottom of the wound, pre- sented the aperture or eye to the surgeon, who now passed the ligature through this opening. The wire was next drawn back into its sheath again, and the whole instrument brought from beneath the artery, by which means, the ligature was conveyed under the vessel. (See (Enures Chir. de Desault, pur Bichat, Turn. 2, />. o(J0.) The invention of this needle makes a material diminution in the difficulty of taking up the sub- clavian artery from above the clavicle; nor, can it be wondered, that, without such an instrument, the operation should have baffled even so skilful a surgeon as Mr. A. Cooper. (See Lonci. Med. Review, Vat. 2, p. 200.) The following example is the first, in which the attempt to tie the subclavian arterv by cutting above the clavicle, was ever accomplished. John Townlv, a tailor, aged thirty-two, ad- dicted to excessive intoxication, of an unhealthy and peculiarly anxious countenance, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital on Tuesday, the 2d of November, i809, on account of an aneu- rism in the right axilla. The prominent part of the tumor in the axilla was about half as big as a large orange, and there was also much enlarge- ment and distention underneath the pectoral muscle, so that the elbow could not be brought near the side of the body. “ The temperature of both arms,” says Mr. Ramsden, “ was alike, and the pulse in the radial artery of each of them was correspondent. After the patient had been put to bed. some blood taken from the left arm, and his bowels emptied, his pulse, which, on his admission had been at 130, became less frequent; his countenance appeared more tranquil; and he experienced some remis- sion of the distressing sensations in the affected arm : this relief, however, was of short duration; the weight and incumbrance of his arm soon be- came more and more oppressive, and, in resist- ance to every medical assistance, his nights were again passed without sleep, and his countenance reassumed the anxiety, which had characterized il, when he first presented himself for advice. On the sixth day after his admission, it was agreed, in consultation, that as the tumor (al- though increasing) did not appear immediately to endanger the life of the patient, from any pro- bability of its bursting suddenly, it would be ad- visable yet to postpone the operation, for the purpose of allowing the greatest possible time for the anastomosing vessels to become enlarged; and, in the meanwhile, that the case should be most vigilantly watched. About this period of the case, the pulsation of the radial artery of the affected arm gradually became more obscure, and soon after either ceased, or was lost in the oedema of the forearm and hand. On the evening of the twelfth day, a dark spot appeared on the centre of the tumor, surrounded by inflammation, which threatened a more exten-