1143 VENEREAL DISEASE. forms of disease have occasionally arisen, "which ire succeeded by a regular series of symptoms learly resembling the progress of lues venerea.” Obft. an the Effects of various articles of the Materia Mediea in the Cure of Lucs Venerea, Id Ed. Introd. p. 53 ; and Rose in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 418.) Mr. Hunter also in he seventh chapter of his Treatise on the Ve- tereal Disease, speaks of many examples of new ormed diseases, arising from peculiar poisons, uite different, he supposes, from every other •irus, previously known, or judged of by its ef- ects. But, though Mr. Rose appears to join in he belief of a plurality of poisons, he is very far rom considering it settled, how far the variety n the symptoms of venereal cases is to be attri- tuted to different poisons, or how far the sym- itoms of the same poison ma)T be modified, and .ltered by constitution, climate, and habits of ife. He remarks, that we seldom have an op- ; ■ >ortunity of tracing different cases to the same ource of infection, and of comparing their pro- cess with each other. ( Vol. cit. p. +1.9.) And, ’ may add, that as far as observations of this na- ure have been made, and can be trusted, they .ather tend to prove, as already noticed in the foregoing columns, that different individuals, vhen infected nearly at the same time and by he same woman, are very far from having any miformity in their complaints; some having one :ind of sore; some another; and others claps, ic. And, the tenor of the remarks, made like- vise by Mr. Evans, as far as he has yet entered rnto the subject, lead equally to the conclusion, ll hat one primary complaint, when it produces mother, does not always occasion one resem- iling itself. Thus, the ulcus elevatum on the >enis, though capable of being communicated by a a noculation, appeared sometimes to be the effect rtjf one kind of infection, sometimes of another, md sometimes even to have a spontaneous ori- ; rin. Who shall unravel all these intricacies, I fenow not, whether he bring to his assistance * durality of poisons, or states of the parts and ^ constitution, climate, neglect, wrong treatment, )r any other circumstance, which can possibly oe conceived to have influence over the appear- mces, progress, and consequences of the dis- 1 lase ? Nay, it would appear from some of the mrious and perplexing histories, mentioned in he preceding pages, that one kind of primary complaint in an individual may impart to other ersons primary complaints of a different nature, *so that even the hope of elucidating parts of this abstruse subject, by adverting to a plurality of infections, and a vigilant observation of their characteristic effects, meets with discouragement almost at its very birth ; and though the doctrine of several kinds of poisons being concerned in the production of syphilis and syphiloid diseases • still maintains its ground, an absolute proof of its correctness can hardly be said to have been yet afforded; nor indeed, could it be obtained, unless the inoculation of healthy individuals with the matter of the different forms of disease were justifiable for the elucidation of the question. - And, as this is not the case, I think, with Mr. Carmichael, that it might be a benefit to so- C1ety, if criminals were sometimes permitted to commute a heavier punishment by submitting to such experiments, without which the inquiry into the reality, number, nature, and effects of the morbid poisons under consideration, can perhaps never be brought to a satisfactory termination. “ I am perfectly aware (says Mr. Carmichael), how much the state of the human constitution will modify local diseases, and am willing to at- tribute to a certain extent, the great variety of appearances, we witness daily in venereal com- plaints, to this cause alone. But, we observe, that many of those primary ulcers evince, from their very commencement, such peculiar and di- stinct characters, that it would be quite an absur- dity to believe, that the virus is always the same, and the variety of characters dependant alone upon constitution. Thus, nothing can be more opposite, from the commencement, than the common chancre, with its hardened base, like a piece of cartilage under the skin, and the slough- ing ulcer. The first is slow and chronic; the latter begins with a mortified spot, extends by alternate sloughing and phagedenic ulceration, and makes more progress in three days, than the former in as many weeks. “ The phagedenic ulcer is equally distinct from chancre, as it does not evince, at any period, a hardened base, but gradually creeps from one part to another of the penis, leaving those parts to heal, which, in the first instance, it attacked ; so that, when the disease has existed for some months, the glans is seen to exhibit its entire surface, furrowed over with ulcerations and cica- trices. “ There is a raised ulcer, also, with elevated edges, approaching tho nature of the phagedenic ulcer, yet, whose characters are sufficiently di- stinct to be considered as a separate species. But, the most common venereal primary ulcera- tion presents such various appearances in differ- ent individuals, that, until a more exact know- ledge is obtained, it is better described by its ne- gative, than its positive qualities, and it may be designated an ulcer without induration, raised edges, or phagedenic surface. “ If (continues Mr. Carmichael) the plurality of venereal poisons is supported by the variety of primary ulcers, it is equally so by the multi- plicity of constitutional eruptions. A primary ulcer, which was not phagedenic, or sloughing, at first, may afterwards, like any other ulcer, become so by irritation, neglect, or inflammation. But, I do not conceive, that we have grounds for supposing, that the state of the constitution can so modify morbid poisons, as to cause the same virus to prbduce in one person the chronic scaly lepra and psoriasis, and to assume in another a decided pustular form, each .pustule spreading rapidly into a deep ulcer.” (On the Symptoms and Specific Distbidtions of Venereal Diseases, p. 6, $-c. 8uo. Loud. 1818.) The same gentleman, in his Essays on this subject, published some years previously to the above date, gives his reasons for believing, that certain primary appearances are followed by a corresponding train of constitutional symptoms. 1st. That the syphilitic chancre gives rise to scaly eruptions, lepra, and psoriasis, an excavated ulcer of the tonsils, and pains and nodes of the bones, ‘^dly. That the ulcer, without indura- tion, raised edges or phagedenic surface, go- norrhoea virulenta, and excoriation of the glans, and prepuce, are followed by a papular eruption,