1216 WOl ployed ; venesection, leeches, fomentations, low diet, perfect rest, anodynes, &c. All solid food must be strictly prohibited. If pressure can be borne without inconvenience, as is sometimes the case in the early stage, the close state of the vis- cera may be increased by the application of a bandage round the body. If the symptoms are not speedily assuaged, the inflammation spreads over the whole cavity of the abdomen, gangrenous mischief takes place, and the patients die in the course of a few days. 3. Bile—Bile, on account of its great fluidity, is more apt to be widely extravasated in the ab- domen, than either blood, or the contents of the stomach and intestines. However, on account of the small size of the gall bladder, and its deep guarded situation, between the concave surface of the liver, and upper part of the transverse arch of the colon, wounds of it are uncommon. Sabatier informs us, that he has only been able to find one example on record. This case, was communicated to the Royal Society of London, by Dr. Stewart (No. 414, pag. 341. Abridgm. Vol 7, pag. 571—572). A wound, penetrated the cavity of the abdomen, and entered the fun- dus of the gall bladder, without doing any ma- terial injury to theadjaceut parts. The abdomen was immediately distended, as if the patient had been afflicted with an ascites, or tympanitis; nor did the swelling either increase, or diminish, till the patient’s death, which liappened in a week. Though there was a great deal of tension, there was no rumbling noise in the abdomen. No stools, and very little urine were discharged, notwithstanding purgatives, and clysters, and a good deal of liquid nourishment, were given. Anodynes failed to procure one instant of sound sleep, and the patient was incessantly in a most restless state. There was no appearance of fever, and the pulse was always natural till the last day of the patient’s life, when it became intermittent. After death, the intestines were found much dis- tended, the gall bladder quite empty, and a large quantity of bile extravasated. Sabatier had an opportunity of noticing the symptoms of an extravasation of bile, in conse- quence of a wound of the gall bladder. The patient’s abdomen swelled very quickly; his respiration became difficult, and he soon after- wards complained of tension, and pain in the right hypochondrium. His pulse was small, fre- quent, and contracted; his extremities were cold, and his countenance very pale. The bleedings, v/hich were practised the first day, gave him a little relief; but the tension of the abdomen, and the difficulty of breathing, still continued. A third bleeding threw the patient into the lowest state of weakness, and he vomited up a greenish matter. On the third day, the lower part of the belly was observed to be more prominent, and there was no doubt of an extravasation. Saba- tier introduced a trocar, and gave vent to a green blackish fluid, which had no smell, and was pure bile, that had escaped from the wound of the gall bladder. After the operation, the patient grew weaker and weaker, and died in a few hours. On opening the body, a large quantity of yellow ...... Iwfliiranil flrn OPritonPIltTl nd in- connected the bowels together, and they were prodigiously distended. The gall bladder was shrivelled, arid almost empty. Towards its fun- dus, there was a wound, about a line and a half long, corresponding to a similar wound in the peritoneum Die wound which had occurred at the middle and lower part of the right hvpo- chondrium, between the third and fourth false ribs, had glided from behind forward, and from above downward, between the cartilages of the ribs, until it reached the fundus of the gall bladder. Sabatier takes notice, that the symptoms of the two cases, which have just now been related, were very similar. Both the patients were af- fected with an exceedingly tense swelling of the belly unattended with pain, or borborygmus, and they were both obstinately constipated. Their pulse was extremely weak the latter days of their indisposition, and they were afflicted with hic- cough, nausea, and vomiting. Sabatier seems to think one thing certain, viz. that wounds of the gall bladder attended with effusion of bile, are absolutely mortal, and that no operation can be of any avail. (Medecinc Operatoire, T. I, p. 34—37.) A contrary inference, however, may be drawn from a case, detailed by Paroisse, in which a bullet had lodged in the gall bladder two years. (Opuscules dc Chir. p. 255.) The recovery published by Mr. Fryer, of Stamford, tends also to prove, that every effusion of bile is not un- avoidably fatal. A boy, about thirteen years old, received a violent blow from one of the shafts of a cart, on the region of the liver. The injury was succeeded by pain, frequent vomiting of bilious matter, great sinking, coldness of the extremities, and a weak, small, fluttering pulse. The belly was fomented and purging clysters thrown up. On the third day, symptoms of in- flammation began, attended with considerable pain about the liver, great tension and soreness of the abdomen, and frequent vomiting. The pulse was quick, small, and weak; the skin hot and dry; the tongue much furred; the urine high-coloured; and there was some difficulty of breathing; and great thirst. Eight ounces of blood were taken away, the fomentations con- tinued, and a few grains of calomel were directed to be given every four hours until the bowels were properly opened. Afterwards, the efferves- cing mixture, with ten drops of laudanum, was exhibited every four hours. On the following day, the patient had some motions, and was much better; but, as his sick- ness continued, he was ordered a grain of opium every four hours. About a week afterwards, he complained of a great increase of pain, which was somewhat relieved by a blister. He was now completely jaundiced, and his stools were white, but the tension, pain, and sickness were abated. Two days afterwards, a fluctuation was per- ceived in the abdomen, which in another week became considerably distended with fluid. The patient now did not complain of much pain ; but appeared to be sinking fast \ a puncture was made in the swelling, and thirteen pints of what anneared to be pure bile were evacuated. The