1184 WOUNDS. whose left carotid artery had been injured by a musket-ball, perish of hemorrhage in a few se- conds. ■ (See Assalmi’s Manuale di Chirurgia, p. 32, Mild no, 1812.) In most cases, however, there is little, or no hemorrhage from lacerated and contused wounds, and it is a circumstance, which often leads inex- perienced practitioners to commit great mistakes, by inducing them to promise too much in the prognosis, which they make. Surgeons versed in practice, however, do not allow themselves to be deceived by the absence of hemorrhage, and, in proportion as there is little bleeding, they ap- prehend that the violence done to the fibres and vessels has been considerable. What is it, but the contused and lacerated nature of the wound, that prevents hemorrhage from the umbilical arteries, when animals divide the navel-string with their teetli ? Whole limbs have frequently been torn from the body, without any hemor- rhage of consequence taking place. In the Phil. Trans. Cheselden has recorded a very remarkable case, in which a man’s arm was suddenly torn from his body. Samuel Wood, a miller, had round his arm a rope, which got en- tangled with the wheel of the mill. He was lifted off the ground, and then stopped by a beam, which prevented his trunk from passing further; at this instant, the wheel, which was moving with immense force, completely tore, and carried away, his arm and scapula from his body. The appearance of a wound, occasioned in this manner, must of course be horrible, and the first idea, thence arising, must naturally be that the patient cannot possibly survive. Samuel Wood, however, escaped with his life. The limb had been torn off with such velocity, that he was unaware of the accident, till he saw his arm moving round on the wheel. Pie immediately descended by a narrow ladder from the mill, and even walked some paces, with a view of seeking assistance. He now fell down from weakness. The persons who first came to his assistance, covered the wound with powdered sugar. A surgeon, who afterwards arrived, ob- serving that there was no hemorrhage, was con- tent with bringing down the skin, which was very loose, so as to make it cover the surface of the wound. For this purpose he used two cross stitches. The patient was conve}red, the next day, to St. Thomas’s Hospital, and put under the. care of Mr. Fern. This practitioner employed the usual means for preventing the bad symptoms most to be expected in this sort of ease. The first dressings came away without any bleeding; no alarming consequences ensued; and the pa- tient, in two months, completely recovered. When the arm was examined, it was found, that the muscles, inserted into the scapula, were torn through near their insertions; while other muscles, arising from this bone, were carried away with it. The skin, covering the scapula, had remained in its natural situation, and seemed as if it had been divided precisely at the insertion of the deltoid muscle. In La Motte’s TraitS Acs Accouchement, may be found an account of a little boy, who, while playing near the wheel of a mill, got his r.ii^cpssivclv entangled of the lad’s body not being able to pass in the direction, in which the arm was drawn. The bleeding was so trivial, that it was stopped with a little lint, and the boy very soon recovered. In the fifth vol. of the Edinb. Med. Com- mentaries, may also be perused the history of a child, three years and a half old, whose arm was torn off by the wheel of a mill. Mr. Car- michael, who saw the child about an hour after the accident, found it almost in a dying state, with cold extremities, small faltering pulse, and all the right side of the body convulsed. How- ever, there was hardly any bleeding. The arm was broken about an inch and a half above the elbow; the stump had a dreadful ap- pearance; all the soft parts were in a contused and lacerated state, and the humerus was laid bare as high as the articulation, which was itself exposed. The skin and muscles were lacerated to a much greater extent, and in different di- rections. 1 he remainder of the humerus was removed from the shoulder-joint by amputation, only as much skin and muscle being left as was sufficient to cover the wound. In two months the child was well. In the Mem. de VAcad, dc Chir. T. 2, is an account of a leg being torn away at the knee- joint by a cart-wheel. The patient was a bov,- about nine or ten years of age. This accident, like the foregoing ones, was accompanied with no hemorrhage. The lower portion of the os femoris, which was exposed, was amputated, together with such portion of the soft parts, as was in a contused and lacerated state. The patient experienced a perfect recover}'. The preceding cases strikingly confirm the observation, which I have already made, in re- gard to the little bleeding, which usually arises from contused and lacerated wounds. In these instances, the pain is also in an in- verse ratio to the cause of the accident: it is generally very severe, when the wound is only moderately contused : and, on the other hand, the patient scarcely suffers any pain at all, where there has been so violent a degree of contusion, as at once to destroy the organization of the part. When the bruised fibres have not been injured above a certain degree, the part suppurates; but, such portions of the wound, as have suffered greater violence, inevitably die, and are cast ofl in the form of sloughs. Granulations are after- wards formed, and the breach of continuity is repaired by the process of cicatrization. (^See this word.) When a still greater degree of violence has been done, and, especially, when arteries of a certain magnitude have been injured, a mor- tification is too frequently the consequence.- However, if the constitution be good, and the mischief not too extensive, the case may still end well. But, in other instances, the event is alarmingly dubious ; for the mischief is then not limited to the wounded parts, which have suffered the greatest degree of contusion; but, too fre- quently extends over such parts, as were not at all interested by the wound itself. The mortification, arising directly from the impaired organization of parts, is not what is the most alarming circumstance. A still more