some scrofulous affections. It may be rendered more stimulating by sprinkling it with squills. (Ford on the Hip-joint, p, 59 ) It was recom- mended by Swediaur; London Mtdiv.nl Journal, Vul. 1, n. 1.98. EMPLASTRUM AMMONIACI CUM IIYDRA RGYRO. Discutient. EMPLASTRUM AMMONIACI CUM CICUTA. Gum. ammon. jjiij. Extracti Conii Jij. Liq. Plumb, acet. 3j- Dissolve the ammoniacuin in a little vinegar of squills., then add the other ingredients, and boil them all slowly to the consistence of a plas- ter. Discutient. EMPLASTRUM AMMONLE. ]},. Sa- pon. 3ij. Emplastr.Plumbi.^ss. Ammon, mur. 3j- The two first articles are to be melted together, and when nearly cold, the murinted ammonia, finely powdered, is to be added. This plaster stimulates the skin, excites the action of the absorbents, and disperses many chronic swell- ings and indurations. EMPLASTRUM CANTHARIDIS. (See Blister ) EMPLASTRUM GALBANI COMPO- SITUM. L. P. (Olim emplastrum litliargyri comp.) Properties discutient. EMPLASTRUM HYDRARGYRI. L. P. (Ohm. emplastrum litliarg. cum hydrargyro.) Properties discutient. E vi PL A STRUM LYTTyE. L. P. (See Blister.) EMPLASTRUM PLUMBI. L. P. (Olim emplostrmn luhnrguri, or tlincholon plaster.) EMPLASTRUM RESINyE. L. P. (Olim emplastrum liihargyri cum resina.) The com- mon adhesive, or sticking plaster. EMPLASTRUM SAPONIS. The plaster commonly used for fractures. It is also frequently applied to bruised parts, and to many indurations of a chronic nature. EMPYEMA, (from jv, within, and ctoov, pus, or matter.) A collection of purulent mat- ter in the cavity of the chest. The ancients made use of the word, “ empy- ema” to express every kind of internal suppura- tion. It wasAEtius, who first restricted the term to the collections of matter, which sometimes form in the cavity of the pleura, or membrane lining the chest; and all the best modern sur- geons invariably attach this meaning alone to the expression. The operation for empyema properly means the making of an opening into the thorax, for the purpose of giving vent to the matter, collected in the cavity of the pleura, though the phrase with several writers denotes making an incision into the chest, in order to let out any effused, or con- fined fluid, whether matter, blood, an aqueous .fluid, or even air. The necessity for having re- course to such an operation, however, does not often present itself. I would not wish to be sup- posed to assert, that inflammation of the lungs, pleura, mediastinum, diaphragm, and even of the liver, does not sometimes terminate in suppura- tion. Certainly, the latter event is occasionally produced; but, when it does happen, the matter does not always make its way into the cavity of the chest: frequently external abscesses form, or the pus is either coughed up, or discharged v ;th the stools. 'EM A. Acute and chronic abscesses not unfrequently form in the cellular substance, between the pleu- ra and the ribs and intercostal muscles. A swell- ing occurs between two of those bones; the skin does not undergo any change of colour ; a fluc- tuation is distinguishable, and sometimes an ex- tensive oedema is observable. With respect to abscesses, formed in the cel- lular substance, connecting the pleura costalis to the intercostal muscles, they rarely burst into the chest, the pleura always being considerably thick- ened. However, in order to keep them from spreading extensively, as well as to obviate any possibility of their breaking inwards, the best rule is to make an early, and, if possible, a de- pending opening. The motions of respiration then both promote the exit of the matter, as well as the contraction of the cavity, in which it was lodged; and the disease, if unattended with ca- ries, generally terminates favourably. It often happens, however, that the ribs are carious, and then the cure is more tedious and difficult. A modern writer, indeed, informs us, that, when the inside of the rib is extensively ca- rious, or when the caries is near the junction of the bone to the spine, the fistula is incurable. (Lassus Pathologie Chiiwgicule, Tom. 1, p. 123, Edit. 1809.) On the other hand, another sur- geon of vast experience recommends us to en- deavour to separate the diseased bone, either by cutting it away,-or employing the trepan. (Pti- letan Clinique Chir. T. 3,//. 253.) Were a part of a diseased rib to admit of being sawn away, Mr. Hey's convex saw would be a more proper instrument for the purpose, than a trepan. An abscess of the preceding kind may be so situated, and attended with such a pulsation, as greatly to resemble an aneurism of the origin of the aorta. An interesting case of this descrip- tion is detailed by Pelletan. (Clinique Chir. /’. 3, p. 254), and another was seen by Baron Boyer. (Traitd des Mol. Chi>-. T. 7, p. 333.) When the surface of the lungs and that of the pleura costalis. have become adherent to each other, in the situation of the abscess, so as to constitute what is termed encysted einpyma, the pus, disposed by a law of nature to make its way to the surface of the body, generally occa- sions ulceration of the intercostal muscles, and collects on the outside of them. An abscess of this kind comes on with a deep-seated pain in the part affected ; an cedematous swelling, which re- tains the impression of the finger; and a fluctua- tion, which is at first not very distinct, but, from day to day, becomes more and more pal- pable, and, at length, leads the surgeon to make an opening. If this be not done when the fluctuation be- comes perceptible, the abscess may possibly in- sinuate itself into the cavity of the pleura, in consequence of the adhesion being in part de- stroyed by ulceration. Sabatier affirms, that the case may take this course, even when the abscess has been punctured, and while a free external opening exists; and this experienced surgeon has adduced a fact in confirmation of such an oc- currence. (See Meodciae Opernlodc, 1 »m. 2, p.249.) I In a few instances, the surface of the lung ul- cerates, and the matter is voided from the tra- chea. But, in the majority of examples, the pus makes its way outwards through the pleura cos-