677 HYDROPHOBIA. — * and then attended with itching, but generally re- sembling a rheumatic pain. If the bite took place on the finger, the pain successively extends from the hand to the forearm, arm, and shoulder, without any redness or swelling in these parts, or any increase of suffering from pressure or motion of the limb. In a great number of in- stances the trapezius muscle, and the neck, on the same side as the bite, are the points to which the pain principally shoots. The cicatrix, in the mean while, begins to swell, inflames, and often festers and discharges an ichorous matter. These uneasy painful sensations recur from time to time, and usually precede any dread of water several days; and, they are a just reason for apprehension. Sometimes pains of a more flying, convulsive kind, are felt in various parts of the body. As the disease advances, the patient complains of the pain shooting, from the situa- tion of the bite, towards the region of the heart. , Sometimes, instead of pain, there is rather a feel- : ing of heat, a kind of tingling, or even a sensa- tion of cold, extending up to the chest and throat. Occasionally no local symptoms take place: thus Sabatier, in giving account of several cases, remarks it as worthy of notice, that the bitten parts did not become painful previously to the accession of the fatal symptoms; nor did any swelling, or festering occur. (See Mem. de rinstitut. National, T. 2,p. 249, $;c.) Dr. Marcet particularly observed, that the pain follows the course of the nerves, rather than that of the absorbents. In the case, which be has related, as well as in one of the cases, de- tailed by Dr. Babington, there was pain in the arm and shoulder, but without any affection of the axillary glands; and in another case, (See Medical Communications, Vol. 2,) the pain, occasioned by a bite in the leg, was referred to the hip and loins, without any affection of the inguinal absorbents. (Medico-Chir. Trans. Vol. 1, p. 156.) Of the accuracy of the foregoing statement, by Dr. Marcet, there is no doubt: the observation, however, in regard to the irrita- tion not affecting the absorbents, was long ago an- ticipated by several authors, who urged the free- dom of the lymphatic glands from disease, as an argument that the disorder did not depend upon ■.he absorption of any virus. It is also noticed oy others, who inclined to the belief, in'the ab- sorption of the infectious principle. “ Resorp- ionem virus ope systernatis lymphatici fieri veri- simillimum videtur; neque tamen nee vasa lym- ahatica, nee glandulae vicinae stimulo morboso, rel tumore adfici videntur; quod in aliis resorp- ionibus virulentis fieri solet.” (Calliscn Syst. <0/drurgioc Hodicrnw, Vol. 1, p. 695, IIafnice, 1798.) Pain and heaviness are felt in the head. Some- imes, the headach is at first very severe; some- •imes but slight; but, in the latter case, it often be- -omes intense, general, and accompanied with a iense of pressure upon the temples. In certain nstances, the patient’s sleep lasts a good while, hough disturbed by dreams; while, in other nore frequent examples, he is continually rest- ess. I he intellectual functions generally seem nercased ; the memory stronger; the conception nore ready; the imagination more fertile; and he conversation more animated. However, some wtients are silent, and dejected, and, when ques- tions are put to them, the answers are short and peevish. But thegreaternumber are active, lively, and talkative. At the same time, the organs of sense betray signs of increased sensibility; and the eyes, which are very open and bright, avoid a strong light. Sometimes, the pupil is found to be considerably dilated. Extraordinary pains are felt about the neck, trunk, and limbs. It is not uncommon, also, for the patient to evince great anxiety, or to fall into a state of dull despair and melancholy. These last symptoms, of which great notice is taken by writers, are particularly ascribable to the effect of fear. The disorder of the organs of digestion is sometimes manifested in various ways, though it is far from being so frequent and striking, as the affections of the head, which precede it. The disorder referred to, consists at first in loss of appetite; nausea; vomiting; and afterwards constipation, and some- times colic. In the first stage of the disease, the pulse is generally somewhat more frequent and strong, than in health, and the countenance appears more animated. The above symptoms precede the second stage, or that of decided rabies, only by a few days, usually four or six, though sometimes but two, or three. (Did. des Sciences Mid. T. 47, ¥■ 78.) The second stage of hydrophobia commences with the first manifestation of the dread, or aver- sion of liquids. The ungovernable agitation and distressing sense of suffocation excited by the sight of liquids, the attempt to drink, or even the mere idea of drinking, is unquestionably the most re- markable symptom of the disorder. The patient is also frequently attacked with the same kind of commotion and suffering, from other causes, such as the least agitation of the air, or expo- sure to a strong light. Indeed, some patients are so much affected by a blast of wind, that they have been known to endeavour to elude it by walking with their backs towards it; (Hist, de la Soc. Roy. de Med. p. 157), while others scream out whenever the window, or door of their room is opened. (Morgagni Dc Sed. ct Cans. Morb. Epist. 8, No. 28.) Dr. Marcet, in relating the case of the patient affected with hydrophobia, observes, that “ on our proposing to him to drink, he started up, and recovered his breath by a deep convulsive in- spiration; yet, he expressed much regret, that he could not drink, as he conceived, it would give him great relief, his mouth being extremely parched and clammy. On being urged to try, however, he took up a cup of water in one hand, and a tea-spoon in the other. The thought of drinking out of the cup appeared to him in- tolerable; but, he seemed determined to drink with the spoon. With an expression of terror, yet, with great resolution, he filled the spoon, and proceeded to carry it to his lips; but before it reached bis mouth, his courage forsook him, and he was forced to desist. He repeatedly re- newed the attempt; but, with no more success. His arm became rigid and immoveable, when- ever he tried to raise it towards his mouth, and he struggled in vain against this spasmodic re- sistance. At last, shutting his eyes, and, with a kind of convulsive effort, he suddenly threw into bis mouth a few drops of the fluid, which he actually swallowed. But, at the same instant,