LITHO'l M. Iloux) if there is any mode of operating more common than others, and preferred by the ma- jority of practitioners, it is that in which the in- strument, named the lithotome cache, is em- ployed.” (See Pareliele de la Chirurgic Ang- loise, &c. p- 313.) Frere Come does not ascribe the invention of this instrument to him- self; but acknowledges, that it resembles the knife for operating upon herniae, said to have been devised by a French surgeon of the name of Bienaise. It consists of a handle and the blade part. The latter is slightly curved, about as thick as a quill, furnished with a beak, and excavated so as to form a sheath for a knife of its own length. By means of a kind of lever, the knife can be made to pass out of the sheath, and the distance, to which the blade projects, also admits of being regulated with precision. For this purpose, the handle is divided into six sides, numbered 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, and 15, and which, according as they are more or less elevated, allow the lever to be depressed in different de- grees, and the knife to move out of its sheath in the same proportion. Thus, the surgeon can at his option make an incision through the prostate gland and neck of the bladder of six different lengths. When the lithotome cache is to be used, the patient must be placed in the same posture, as in every other mode of practising the lateral ope- ration ; and after a staff’ has been introduced, an oblique incision is to be made from the raphe of the perinreum, to a point situated rather more towards the anus, than the innermost part of the tuberosity of the ischium. The bulb of the urethra should not be cut, and not too much of the mem- branous part of the urethra. The fat and trans- verse muscles having been divided, and the ure- thra opened, exactly as in the common operation, the scalpel is to be put down, and the beak of tji£ lithotome introduced into the groove of the staff. Of course, the surgeon, previously to the operation, will have settled the distance, to which the blade of the instrument is to pass out of the sheath, and which must necessarily depend upon the age of the subject, and the presumed size of the calculus. When the beak of the lithotome has been inserted in the groove of the staff, the surgeon is to take hold of the handle of the lat- ter instrument with hjs left hand, and bring it a little towards himself, at the same time push- ing the lithotome into the bladder, with the handle depressed as much as possible. The staff is now to be witiidrawn, and the surgeon is to try to feel the stone with the sheath of the other instrument, in order to be able to judge of the size of the calculus, and whether the distance, to which the blade of the knife is intended to move out of the sheath, is such as is likely to make an opening of due, but not unnecessary, magnitude. Things being properly determined, the lithotome is to be held in a position calcu- lated to make a division of the parts 'which in parallel to the cut i$ the integuments, and, by means of the lever, the cutting blade of the instrument is then to be disengaged from its sheath. The surgeon is next to draw the opened lithotome towards himself, in a perfectly horizon- tal manner, so as to make the requisite division of the prostate gland and orilicc of the bladder. As Sabatier observes, Frere Cdme’s method ’OMY. 7BL undoulrtedly possesses all the advantages of the lateral operation, besides being more easy than Cheselden’s plan, and most of the other modes, subsequently proposed, for cutting the neck of the bladder with perfect smoothness, and to a sufficient extent to allow the calculus to be re- moved, without any laceration of the parts.— (Medecine Operatoire, T. 3, p. 199.) There have been several objections urged against the use of the lithotome cache. 1. It is said, that the size of the incision is r.ot always proportioned to the distance, to which the knife moves out of the sheath, and that the instrument, when opened to No. 13 or 15, some- times makes a smaller incision, than when opened only to No. 5 or 7- This uncertainty is said to depend upon the greater or less contraction of the bladder in different subjects. For my own part, I confess, that I am not inclined to put much credit in the accuracy of this last explanation, and suspect the difference sometimes observed must depend upon the ope- rator not taking care to draw out the instrument in a horizontal direction, a thing which is always easy to be done. 2. Frere Come himself made his incision too high, so that an extravasation of urine .in the scrotum followed some of his operations ; but the above method of operating is free from any objection of this kind. 3. Some surgical writers have exaggerated the danger of cutting the body of the bladder too ex- tensively with the lithotome, and thus producing internal hemorrhage. However, this'eannot hap- pen, unless the surgeon raise the handle of the instrument improperly at the moment of with- drawing it, and as Sabatier himself allows, it is rather the fault of the operator than of the ope- ration. 4. The arteria pudica profunda and the rectum, which some authors conceive to be endangered, must always be in absolute safety, if the edge of the knife of the lithotome be turned in the direc- tion above recommended. I think that for a surgeon, who understands the right principles of lithotomy, this is one of the best ways of performing the operation. When I was at Paris in 1815, I saw Dr. Souberbielle operate very skilfully with the litho- tome cache. A stone of considerable size was extracted from a gentleman, who was, I should think, not less than 70. No apprehensions were entertained of ill success, as I understood that this operator hardly ever lost a patient. M. Roux, when he visited England, seems not to have been informed, that at the Westmin- ster Hospital, the lithotome cache has been com- monly employed for many years past. It has also been sometimes used at Guy’s Hospital by Sir A. Cooper. When M. Roux likewise finds fault with the bad construction of this instru- ment, as made in London, I suspect, that he can- not have seen those which are made and sold by Mr. Evans.. (See Voyage fait d fjOndrcs, ouPa- rallelc de la Chirurgic Ang/oise, djv. />• 318.) Le Cat, a surgeon, of Rouen, in Normandy, devised a mode of lithotomy, which would be too absurd to be described, were it less renowned. He thought the neck ot the bladder might be dilated, like the wound, and his operation was deformed with all the cruelty ol the Marian