SPINA ( was benefited bv any mode of treatment. Opeu- [ ing the tumor, either with caustics, or cutting ! instruments, lias generally only tended to hasten die fatal event of the disease. Death soon fol- lows an operation of this kind, and sometimes instantly. Tulpius observes on this subject; t mini culamitatem si quidcm rcformides, chi- rurge, cave sis iviprovide aperias quod turn tiirile occidit homincm. (Obscrv. Med.) But, whether the tumor be opened, or not, still the disease is one of the most fatal, to which I children are exposed. When afflicted with it, I they very seldom live till three years of age; jut, after lingering several months from their oirth, suddenly die. It has been said, that cliil- i Iren, with spina bifida, always have their legs in a j oaralytic state. However, this is not true; lor die largest spince bifidte I ever saw, was under my | ,'riend Mr. Maul, of Southampton, and was un- attended with any weakness of the legs. Indeed, j ihe child was, to adl appearances, as stout, healthy, j and full of play, as possible. The fatal event, however, took place after a time, as usual; and, if iny memory does not fail me, Mr. Maul noticed, that a little before death, a remarkable subsidence of the swelling occurred, though it never burst externally. It is a fact notwithstand- ing, that many infants, with spina bifida, have .paralytic legs, and can neither retain their feces, : uor urine. If we draw our inferences from the cases, and j :remarks offered Ly almost every writer on spina aifida, we must regard all attempts to cure the disorder, by making any kind of opening, as ex- ceedingly perilous, if not positively fatal. It is .o be observed, at the same time, that someprac- . utioners have not altogether abandoned the idea f of devising a mode of accomplishing a cure, at least, in a few instances. Mr. B. Bell says, that :.f the tumor proceeded from disease of the spinal narrow, or its membranes, no means of cure will probably ever be discovered. But, if the deficiency in the spinous processes of the ver- tebral, with which the disease is always accom- panied, is not an effect of the complaint, as was commonly imagined, and if the collection of fluid takes place, from the want of resistance in the dura mater, in consequence of the imperfection of the bones, Mr. B. Bell questions, whether it would not be proper to tie the base of the tumor with a ligature, not merely with a view of re- moving the swelling, but in order to resist the propulsion of the cyst further outward. Mr, Hell acknowledges, that the event of this prac- tice must be considered as very dubious; but, expresses his wish to devise any plan, that would afford even the least chance of success, in a case which must terminate in an unfavourable man- ner. Mr. Bell mentioned the design of put- ting the method to a trial, on the first oppor- tunity, and after the detachment of the swelling on the outside of the ligature, lie Intended to keep a soft compress on the part with a proper bandage. I do not know whether this gentle- man ever put the above scheme in practice; but, suppose not. It is properly objected to by the author of the article S'pitta Itijidu, in the Jinnj- • lopedic MiihoAiquc, Part Chir. because the disease is often attended with other mischief of the spinal marrow and brain, and the base of the swelling is almost always too large to admit of BIFIDA. 9SI being tied at all, or not without hazard of dan- gerous consequences. Richter has proposed the trial of two caustic issues at a little distance from the swelling ; but, I am not acquainted with any facts in favour of this practice. Mr. Abernetliv first suggested the trial of a gentle degree of pressure on the tumor from its commencement, with the view of producing ab- sorption of the fluid, and preventing the disten- tion of the unsupported dura mater. Were the fluid to continue to increase, notwithstanding such pressure, Mr. Abernethy thinks, that as death would be inevitable on the tumor burst- ing,, it might be vindicable to let out the fluid, by means of a puncture, made with a finely-cut- ting-instrument. The wodnd is to be imme- diately afterwards closed with sticking plaster, and, if possible, healed. Another accumulation is then to be prevented, if practicable, with band- ages and topical applications. Mr. Abernethy actually made the experiment of a puncture in one hopeless instance, in which, indeed, the swell- ing had previously just begun to burst. The puncture was repealed, every fourth day, for six weeks, during which time the child’s health con- tinued unaffected. The wounds were regularly healed; but the plaster having been rubbed off one of the punctures, the part ulcerated, the opening could not be healed, the discharge, from having been of an aqueous quality, became puru- lent, and death ensued. This case was also un- favourable for the trial of the method, as the integuments covering the tumor were diseased, and had no disposition to contract. The annexed case, published by' Sir Astley Cooper, will serve to shew the benefit, which may be derived from pressure. “James Applebee, Baldwin-Street, Old-Street, was born on the 19th of May, 1807, and his mother, immediately after bis birth, observed a round and transparent tumor on the loins, of the size of a large walnut. On the 22d of June, 1807, the child was brought to my house, and I found, that although it had spina bifida, the head was not unusually large; and the motions of its legs1 were perfect; and its stools and urine were dis- charged naturally. I applied a roller around the child’s waist, so as to compress the tumor, being induced to do so from considering it as a species of hernia, and that the deficiency of the spine might be compensated for by external pressure. The pressure, made by thef roller, had no un- pleasant influence on its voluntary powers ; its stools and urine continued to be properly dis- charged, but the mother thought, that the child was occasionally convulsed. At the end of a week, a piece of plaster of Paris, somewhat hol- lowed, and that hollow partly filled with a piece of loose lint, was placed upon the surface of the tumor: a strap of adhesive plaster was applied to prevent its changing its situation, and a roller was carried around the waist, to bind the plaster of Paris firmly upon the back, and to compress the tumor as much as the child could bear. This treatment was continued until the month of October, during which time, the tumor was examined about three times a week, and the mother reported, that the child was occasionally convulsed. When the child was five months old, a truss was applied, similar in form to that