1034 TIC DOULOUREUX. parts which he was about to cut. By this cau- tious dissection, the superior and inferior thyroid arteries were laid bare, and afterwards tied with tiie aid of a blunt crooked needle. They were then transversely divided, and the remaining part of the tumor detached from the trachea, to which it strongly adhered. The wound result- ing from this operation was near three inches in depth ; it was outwardly bounded by the sterno- mastoideus muscle, and inwardly by the trachea and oesophagus; posteriorly by the carotid ar- tery, and par vagum, which were exposed at the bottom of the wound. The extirpated tumor was five inches in circumference; and on exami- nation was found to differ in no particular from scirrhous glands, except that in the centre there was a cartilaginous nucleus. The patient left the hospital, perfectly well, the thirty-fourth day after the operation. (See Desault’s Paris- ian Chir. Journ. Vol. 2, p. 2.92, 296.) . The extirpation of the thyroid gland is an operation extremely difficult, and certainly highly dangerous, when performed by an operator but moderately exercised in the practice of his pro- fession. The number and size of the arteries divided, the proximity of the trachea, oesopha- gus, and carotid, near which the knife must ne- cessarily pass, are the principal dangers, They have deterred the majority of practitioners from performing the operation, and it must be allowed, that they are such as ought to intimidate every man, who is not endued with anatomical know- ledge, and the most undaunted coolness. Ex- amples of this operation are very rare. The first time that Gooch undertook it, he was deterred from finishing it by the hemorrhage, and his pa- tient died on the eighth day, The second time he succeeded better, but was incapable of securing the vessels, and succeeded in stopping the he- morrhage, which wolild otherwise have been mortal, by causing the parts to be compressed by the hand of an assistant for the space of eight days. (Gooch's Med. and Chir. Ohs. p. 130. Bell's System of Surgery, Vol. 5, p. 525. Richter’s Btbl. T. 2,p. 128.) A. F. Yogel and Theden practised the ope- ration with complete success. All danger from the hemorrhage, or inconvenience arising from the discharge of blood, may be obviated by taking up the small vessels, tying them as fast as they are divided, and by discovering and tying the large vessels previous to their division. Other parts that cannot be wounded without danger, are to be avoided by dissecting slowly and a little at a time, and feeling with the finger every part previously to its division with the bistoury. A case, in which Klein removed a very large thyroid gland, has been recently published. The patient, a boy, eleven years of age, died, how- ever, on the operating table, as would seem from Klein’s account, in consequence of apoplexy. (See Journ. der Chir. B. 1, p. 120, 8vo. Ber- lin, 1820 ; or the Quarterly Journ. of Foreign Medicine, Vol. 2, p. 380.) On the whole, I consider, that the practice of tying the thyroidal arteries is generally a safer experiment than the removal of the enlarged gland with a knife. (See Bronchoccfc.) TIG DOULOUREUX. This term is used to signify a disorder, the most prominent cha- racter of which consists in severe attacks of pain, il,„ f'arc. • most I’rcmipntlv. the filaments of that branch of the fifth pair, which comes out of the infra-orbitary foramen j but sometimes the other branches of the fifth pair, and occasionally the numerous filaments of the portio dura of the auditory nerve, which are distributed upon the face. The complaint is not continual, but occurs in violent paroxysms, which vary in duration in different instances. It is the trismus dolorijkus of Sauvage ; the Faciei Morbus Nervorum Crucians of Dr. S. Fotliergill; arid of that order of diseases which Professor Chaussier has so aptly denominated neuralgias (from vtucov, a nerve, and a/.yof, pain) ; for it should be known, that many other parts of the body are subject to a similar affec- tion. The first excellent description of the tic dou- loureux was published in the year 1776, by the late Dr. Fothergill. (See Med. Obs. and Inq. Vol. 5.) It is not true, however, as is gene- rally stated in modern medical works, that this gentleman was the first author who noticed the complaint. This, indeed, is so far from being correct, that we even find an account of an ope- ration done long ago by Louis, for the relief of the disease, (See No. 36 de la Gazette Sain- taire, 1766; and this identical case actually became a subject of hot dispute between the physicians and surgeons of the French metropo- lis. (See a Thesis, entitled “ Utrum in per- tinacibus capitis ct faciei doloribus a liquid pra- desse possit, sectio ramorum nervi quiuti parts ? Proponebat Viellart, 1708, conclusio negativa.” Tic douloureux conveniently admits of being divided ,into four species, called by the French frontal, suborbitary, and maxillary neuralgia, and the neuralgia of the facial nerve. In the frontal neuralgia, the pain usually be- gins in the situation of the supra-orbitary fora- men, extending at first along the branches and ramifications of the frontal nerve distributed to the soft parts upon the cranium, and afterwards shooting in the direction of the trunk of the nerve towards the bottom of the orbit. In a more advanced stage, the conjunctiva and all the surface of the eye participate in the effects of the disorder, and become affected with chronic in- flammation, which is described as a particular species of ophthalmy. At length, the pain passes beyond the distribution of the branches of the frontal nerve, and affects all the corresponding side of the face and head. It seems as if it ex- tended itself to the facial, sub-orbitary, maxillary, and even to the temporal and occipital nerves, through the communications naturally existing between the filaments of all those organs of sensation. Each paroxysm produces a spas- modic contraction of the eyelids, and a copious effusion of tears. The sub-orbitary neuralgia is first felt about the sub-orbitary foramen. The seat is probably in the nerve of this name, and the pain extends to the lower eyelid, the inner canthus of the eye, the muscles about the zygoma, the buccinator, cheek in general, ala of the nose, and the upper lip. At a later period, the pain appears to ex- tend backward to the trunk of the nerve, and those branches which are given off* in its pas- sage through the sub-orbitary canal. Hence, pains are then experienced in the upper teeth, the zygomatic fossa, the palate, tongue, and withm the eavitv of the nose. As the disorder ad- i i H If |! I' * * M n ft li : i U CI 1 I < M i! t K k a. 4r 't u M I? u i f u h ; » i »\ I H t t h i 7