PHYMOSIS. 922 phymosis, atul parapliymosis, according to Mr. Hunter, arise from a thickening of the cellular membrane of the prepuce, in consequence of nu irritation, capable ol producing considerable and diffused inflammation. A chancre is a frequent cause ; but a mere inflammation and discharge from the glans and prepuce, and also a gonorrhoea, may bring on these affections. The inflammation often runs high, and is fre- quently of the erisypelatous kind. The cellular membrane being loose, the tumefaction becomes considerable, and the end of the prepuce being a depending part, the serum often lodges in it, and makes it cedematous. A congenital contraction of the aperture of the prepuce is very common, and persons so affected have a natural and con- stant phymosis. Such a state of parts (says Mr. Hunter) is often attended with chancres, and it produces very great inconveniences during the treatment. When there is considerable diffused inflammation, a diseased phymosis similar to the natural one, unavoidably follows; and whether diseased or natural, it may produce a paraphy- mosis, simply by the prepuce being brought back upon the penis. This tight part, then act- ing as a ligature round the body of the penis, behind the glans, retards the circulation beyond the constriction, so as to produce an osdematous inflammation on the inverted part of the pre- puce. When the prepuce is very long, phymosis may also arise from the swelling of the glans penis, produced by sores on the latter part, or the irritation of a severe gonorrhoea. (Tra- vers, in Surgical Essays, Fart 1, p. 132.) My own observations lead me to consider an irritation and swelling of the prepuce itself ns by far the most common causes of the accidental phymosis. In some children, the natural or congenital phymosis is so considerable, that the urine can- not pass with ease ; but the aperture of the pre- puce generally becomes larger as they grow older, and the bad consequences which the phymosis might have occasioned in disease, are thus avoided. In certain individuals, especially old men, the prepuce sometimes contracts without any visible cause whatever, and becomes so narrow as to hinder the water from getting out, even after it has got free of the urethra, and, consequently, the whole cavity of the prepuce becomes filled with urine, attended with great pain. In phymosis, when the prepuce swells and thickens, more and more of the skin of the penis is drawn forwards over the glans, and the latter part becomes at the same time pushed backward by the swelling against its end. From such a cause, Mr. Hunter has seen the prepuce project- ing more than three inches beyond the glans with its aperture much diminished. Mr. Hunter also notices, that the prepuce often becomes, in some degree, inverted, by the inner skin yielding more than the outer, and the part seems to have a kind of neck, where the outer skin naturally terminates. From the tightness and distention of the parts, the prepuce now cannot be drawn more back, so as to expose any sores, which mav be situated under it. Fliis state is frequently productive of bad consequences, espe- fiallv when there are chancres behind the glans ; for, the glans being between the orifice of the prepuce and the sores, the matter sometimes cannot get a passage forward, between the glans and prepuce, and, consequently, it accumulates behind the corona glandis, so as to form a kind of abscess, which produces ulceration on the in- side of the prepuce. I his abscess bursts exter- nally, and, the glans, often protruding through the opening, the whole prepuce becomes thrown towards the opposite side, and the penis seems to have two terminations. On the other hand, (says Mr. Hunter) if the prepuce is loose and wide, and is either accustomed to be kept back in its sound state, or is pulled back to admit of the chancres being dressed, and is allowed to remain in this situation, till the above tumefaction takes place, the case is then named a parapliymosis. Also, when the prepuce is pulled forcibly back, after it is swelled, it is then brought from the state of a phymosis to that of a parapliymosis. The latter case is often attended with worse symptoms than the former, especially when it has first been a phymosis. According to Mr. Hunter, the reason of this is, that the aperture of the prepuce is na- turally less elastic than any other part of it; there fore, when the prepuce is pulled back upon the body of the penis, that part grasps it more tightly than any other portion of the skin of the penis, and more so, according to the inflammation. Hence, there are two swellings of the prepuce, one close to the glands; the other behind the stricture. The constriction is often so great, as to interrupt the circulation beyond it. This increases the swelling, adds to the stricture, and often produces a mortification of the prepuce itself, by which means the whole diseased part, together with the stricture, is sometimes re- moved, forming, as Hunter ably expresses him- self, a natural cure. In many cases, the skiti and prepuce are not the only parts affected ; ad- hesions, and even mortification may also take place in the glans, corpora cavernosa, &c. (See Hunter on the Venereal, 221. §c.) An accidental phymosis should always be pre- vented if possible, and therefore, says Mr. Hun- ter, upon the least signs of a thickening of the prepuce, which is known by its being retracted with difficulty and pain, the patient should be kept quiet; if in bed, so much the better, as in a horizontal position, the end of the penis will not be so depending. If confinement in bed cannot be complied with, the end of the penis should be kept up, though this can hardly be done when the patient is walking about. The object of this plan is to keep the extravasated fluids from gravitating to the prepuce, which they would hinder from being drawn back again even more than the inflammation itself. When phymosis is recent, and attended with swelling of the glans, or prepuce, from inflam- mation, Mr. Travers recommends injections of tepid water, or milk and water, beneath the fore- skin; and the immersion of the penis, three or four times a day, in a tepid bath, keeping the end of the penis upwards; and the use of leeches; which I think with him and other writers, (see Did. des Sciences Med. T. 41, p. 334), should never be put exactly on the swelled prepuce itself. As the inflammation subsides, injections of weak goulard, or the solution of alum, or liquor calcis and calomel, may be substituted. (Travers,