URINARY CALCULI. >, although about 2000 patients arc admitted .here every year. Dr. Marcet has been informed by M. Roux, hat, in La Charite at Paris, ten or twelve cases jf stone occur every year, out of about 2600 >atients, and that the proportion of deaths from he operation there is 1 in 5 or 6. In the Hopital des Enfans Malades, in the jame city, Dr. Marcet states, on the authority of Dr. Biett, that about 6 cases of stone are re- ceived every year into that establishment, where about SOOO children of both sexes are annually idinitted. There have been only 3 cases in fe- males, and what is remarkable, only 2 deaths rom the operation, in the course of the last ■seven years. Dr. Marcet was acquainted, that lithotomy is comparatively rare at Vienna, not on account of ; he want of good surgeons, or the unfrequent oc- currence of stone cases in that part of the conti- nent; but, in consequence of the little attention poaid to this disease by the most eminent surgeons oof the Austrian capital. At Geneva, says Dr. Marcet, in a population of 30,000, lithotomy has been performed only liirteen times in tiie last twenty years, though jrood surgeons are never wanting in that town, 0 perform the operation whenever an oppor- .unity presents itself. Out of these thirteen oatients, seven were not strictly Genevese, ti hough belonging to the neighbouring districts, ind one was an Englishman; so that the disease rould, at first sight, appear to be a rare occur- ence at Geneva, But, continues Dr. Marcet, [i f the smallness of the Genevese population he iken into account, this proportion of calculous ases may not fall very short of that observed t n other places. At Lyons, a populous town, tot more than eighty miles distant from Geneva, . :he disease is stated to be rather frequent. With regard to the chemical nature of urinary alculi, there was nothing known until 1776, vhen Scheele published, on the subject, in the Stockholm Transactions. He there stated, that : ill the urinary calculi, which he had examined, consisted of a peculiar concrete substance, now veil known by the name of lit hie, or uric acid, vhich he also shewed was soluble in alkaline ixivia. Scheele further discovered, that the ithic matter was, in some degree, capable of ■<>eing dissolved in cold water; that this solution 8 assessed acid properties, and, in particular, that if reddening liimus; that it was acted upon in a icculiur manner when boiled in nitric acid ; and, astly, that human urine always contained this substance in greater or less quantity, and often et it separate in the form of a brick-coloured aediment, by the mere effect of cooling. The discovery made by Scheele, was confirmed jy Bergmann and Morveau, and the investiga- •ion of the subject was afterwards prosecuted by athers with redoubled ardour. As Professor Murray observes, experiments continued to be repeated and diversified on these concretions, and an their solvents. At length, it was fully ascer- tained, that there existed others, besides those composed of uric acid ; and, latterly, our know- 1 ledge ot them has been much extended by the ■ researches of Pearson, Wollaston, Fourcroy, and Vauquclin. Several important facts have also been established by the talents and industry of ■ 1 some other distinguished men ; viz. Dr. Henry, of Manchester; Professor Brande, of the Royal Institution of London; Dr. Marcet, late of Guy’s Hospital; and Dr. Prout, of London. The facts and considerations of the latter writer render it probable, however, that the common opinion of pure lithic acid being contained in the urine is not exactly correct; but that this acid “ in healthy urine exists in a state of combination with ammonia, and that, in reality, this fluid con- tains no uncombined acid at all.” [On the Na- ture, Sfc. of Gravel and Calculus, c. 13.) The credit, which is due to Dr. Wollaston for his valuable and original discoveries, respecting urinary calculi, is very considerable; a truth, which I have particular pleasure in recording here, since his merits have not been fairly ap- preciated by the French chemists. Indeed, as Dr. Marcet observes, it is the more desirable, that his claims should be placed in the clearest point of view, as the late celebrated M. Four- croy, both in his “ Systeme des Connoissances Chimiques,” and in his various papers on this particular subject, has, in a most unaccountable manner, overlooked Dr. Wollaston’s labours, and, in describing results, exactly similar to those previously obtained and published by the English chemist, has claimed them as his own discoveries. Yet Dr. Wollaston’s was printed in our Philosophical Transactions, two years be- fore Fourcroy published his Memoir in the “ An- nales de Chimie,” and three years before he gave to the world his “ Systeme des Connoissances Chimiques;” and he discussed in these works a paper of Dr. Pearson on the lithic acid, pub- lished in a volume of the Philosophical Transac- tions (for 1798) subsequent to that which con- tained the account of Dr. Wollaston’s disco- veries! (See Marcet's Essay on Calculous Disorders, p. 60. Also Murray’s Syst. of Chcm. vol. 4, p. 636, edit, of 1809.) It would appear then, that Scheele first dis- covered the nature of those urinary calculi which consist of lithic acid; but, that Dr. Wollaston first ascertained the nature of several other kinds, some of which have also been described at a later period by Fourcroy and Vauquelin. On the whole, there are five species of concretions, whose chemical properties were first pointed out by Dr. Wollaston, and no less than four belong to the urinary organs. These are, 1st. Gouty- concretions. 2dly. The fusible calculus. 3dly. The mulberry calculus. 4thly. The calculus of the prostate gland, Sthly. The cystic oxide, discovered in 1810. 1. Lithic Acid Calculus. Dr. Prout believes, that, at least two-thirds of the whole number of calculi originate from lithic acid; for, as it forms by far the most common nucleus, round which other calculous matter is subsequently deposited, if such nuclei had not been formed and detained, two persons at least out of three who suffer from stone, would never have been troubled with the disorder. ( On Gravel, Calculus, $c. p. 95.) Lithic acid forms a hard, inodorous concre- tion, of a yellowish, or brown colour, similar to that of wood, of various shades. According to Professor Murray, calculi of this kind are in fine, close layers, fibrous, or radiated, and gene- rally smooth on their surface, though sometimes a little rough. They are rather brittle, and have