!)5<> with, as wall as instances brought on by a long residence in darkness. A dilatation of the pupil may likewise be the consequence of an adhesion of the uvea to the anterior capsule of the lens. When the retina continues sensible, the incon- veniences, produced by mydriasis, are intoler- ance of light, complete blindness in the day-time, and in the end amaurotic mischief, occasioned by the irritation ot the immoderate quantity of the rays of light, admitted within the eye. The kind ot prognosis, and the mode of treatment, must often depend entirely upon the primary affection, of which many cases of mydriasis are only symptomatic. Of course, the original dis- order must always be cured, if possible. When mydriasis appears to arise from paralysis of the iris, blisters may be applied over the eyebrows, and the same remedies tried, which are usually employed in other local paralytic disorders The entrance of too much light into the eye may be moderated with shades, and tubulated spectacles. The case, which is the reverse of the prece- ding, is a preternaturally contracted, more or less Immoveable state of the pupil, termed myosis. According to Weller, it is sometimes congenital. It is often met with as a symptom of other dis- orders, especially ophthalmy, inflammation of the dura mater, phrenitis, concussion of the brain, &c. Persons, whose business is to be looking at small shining objects, as watchmakers, often acquire a myosis from habit, and they cannot be cured of it, unless they avoid the causes, which brought it on, keep themselves in a darkish room, and use a green shade, or tubulated spec- tacles. (See Weller's Manual, S[C. Transl. by Monteath, Vol. 2, p. 54.) It is noticed by Beer, that myosis, when a sequel of ophthalmy, is less obvious than most other consequences of ocu- lar inflammation ; for though the iris is motion- less, and the pupil considerably diminished, this opening is perfectly clear and black, and not drawn out of its usual position, nor its pupillary edge in the slightest degree angular. The pa- tient, though he is continually complaining of weakness of sight, is able to distinguish (with some trouble indeed) even the smallest objects in the daytime, and in very light situations; but, his sight is evidently worse in the evening, and in darkish places in the day-time; for, when both his eyes are affected, he is in the dusk nearly blind, and can scarcely find his way. Beer remarks, that almost every considerable internal ophthalmy, or iritis, however favourably the disorder may be cured, and the" eyesight re- stored, always leaves after it more or less con- traction of the pupil, which affection, though not the least portion of coagulating lymph can be perceived in the posterior chamber, is combined with a partial, or complete immobility of the iris. Beer assures us, that every expedient, which he has yet tried for the permanent re- moval of this complaint has failed, the dilatation of the pupil, thus produced being but temporary. And, with respect to the most powerful narcotics, he states, that, in two cases, they were worse than useless, as they caused a still greater con- traction of the pupil, which, however, after a fmu rpQmmpd its former diameter. Hence, PUPIL. the myosis, following internal ophthalmy, as an incurable complaint. (See Lchrc von den Au~ genkr. B. 2, p. 261, %c. The next case, demanding some notice in this work, is a closure of the pupil (atresia pupillce.) According to Beer’s observations, there is only one exception, in which in the adult patient a closure of the pupil is not the consequence of ophthalmy, and the case, here signified, is termed a collapse of the pupil, or synizesispupillce, the causes of which are said to be, either a very con- siderable loss of the vitreous humour from a wound ot the eye, or else a dissolved, or rather disorganized, state of the same humour, known amongst the oculists under the name of synchy- sis. (See Beer's Lchrc, §c. B. 9, p. 190.) Every internal ophthalmy, extending to the re- tina and choroides, when in its highest degree, is apt to produce a complete closure of the pupil. However, in such cases, as Beer remarks, the obliteration of this opening is not the only cause of blindness, for, long before this state of the iris happens, the sight is destroyed by consider- able, and frequently irremediable, injur\r of the retina, and neighbouring textures, in which the inflammatibn is directly situated. An incom- plete closure of the pupil, he says, is still more disposed to take place at the period, when the iritis passes from its first into its second stage, and syphilitic iritis is said to be particularly apt to leave after it this disagreeable consequence. (Vol. cit. p. 191.) In cases of the latter de- scription, vision is not always quite prevented, but only more or less diminished, the coagulating lymph, effused in the posterior chamber having formed only a delicate, semitransparent web. However, if in the second stage of the inflam- mation, such lymph should be converted into a dense membrane, with opacity of the lens and its capsule, the eye then only retains more or less perfectly the faculty of just distinguishing the light. But, when in such a case, the patient is completely insensible of the difference between light and darkness, the blindness, as in the ex- amples mentioned above, is not owing to the closure of the pupil, or to the cataract, but to other morbid changes, resulting from the same inflammation, which caused the defect in the pupil itself, and capable of being ascertained by certain appearances in the eye. Passing over obstructions of the pupil by the unabsorbed mat- ter of hypopiurn, and by the continuance of ef- fused blood in the chambers of the eye, I come to the case, next noticed by Beer, in which a closure of the pupil arises from a partial adhesion -■ of tlie iris to the cornea, (syitcchiu anterior,) and will inevitably happen, when a considerable portion of the iris, or a great part, or the whole, of its pupillary edge protrudes through an open- ing in the cornea, and becomes adherent to it. However, as Beer observes, sometimes, in these cases, the pupil becomes completely obstructed, though the protrusion of the iris is inconsider- able, and its pupillary edge not engaged in the cicatrix; a circumstance exemplified, when the cicatrix over the adherent part of the iris ex- pands very much, and has an extensive leucoma- tous surface, so that, though the pupil maybe of considerable size, it is concealed, and vision ini-