VI PREFACE. Some apology may be required for the present size of the book, which may be said to have lost its external symmetry: however, it is confidently hoped, that, when its interior is surveyed, the causes and reasons for this seeming neglect of outward appearance will prove satisfactory. The truth is, that, unless it had been decided to make the work into two volumes, which is always particularly objectionable in a dictionary, it was absolutely necessary, either to have a thick volume, capable of containing all the principal observa- tions of Professor Beer, and other modern writers, on Diseases of the Eye, as well as the requisite additions to other subjects, or else to have a thinner book, in which the numerous articles of Ophthalmology could not have had the same attention paid to them as the rest of the publication. The author here imposed upon himself a laborious task, and adopted that course which, he thought, both the internal symmetry of the book and the good of surgery equally demanded. Some of the following cases, proposals, and references, have been inad- vertently omitted j but others unavoidably, in consequence of the articles, to which they relate, having been printed at too early a period for the necessary insertions to be made in them. Amputation.—Case of Amputation at the Hip-Joint, for the Removal of an Osteosarcomatous Tumor, by R. Carmichael. Vid. Trans, of the Fel- lows, cyc. f the Kings and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland, Vol. 3, 8uo. Dublin, 1820. The patient, a girl nineteen years of age. The operation was followed by her death on the fifth day. Aneurism.—R. Carmichael, Observations on Varix and Venous Inf ani- mation, with Instructions for operating with Safety to the Femoral Vein in Poplitceal Aneurism. See Trans, of the Fellows, tyc. of the King’s and Queen's College of Physicians, Ireland, Vol. 2, p. 357, §c- “ The only part of the thigh, from Poupart’s ligament to the tendon of the triceps, in which the femoral vein is not completely covered by the artery, lies within the space which extends from Poupart’s ligament to where the artery meets the sartorius muscle. At the part of this space, most distinct from Poupart’s ligament, the vein begins to disclose itself at the pubal side of the artery, from beneath which it emerges more and more as it ascends.” Mr. Car- michael’s plan is to introduce the needle on the pubal side of the artery, where the vein presents itself to view, and can be most easily avoided. Anus, Abscesses of.— T. Ribes, Recherches sur la Situation de I'Ori- fee Interne de la Fistula de VAnus, ct sur les parties dans I’epaisseur desquelles ces ulceres ont leur siege. See The Quarterly Journal of Foreign Medicine and Surgery, No. 8, Oct. 1820. In fistula in ano, the internal orifice, when there is one, is stated to be always within five or six lines above the point, at which the lining of the gut, and the skin, conjoin, and generally capable of being seen, when the patient gently strains. This is an important observation, if correct. rl lie advice of M. Kibes never