4»8 FRACTURES. ends of the fracture, and then, as most of the symptoms are absent, the diagnosis is still more difficult. In general, however, the ends of the fracture are displaced, and, in this circumstance, it is the lower one, which is out of its proper po- sition, and not the upper one, which is of little extent, and is not acted upon by many muscles. The displacement is, generally, not very per- ceptible, in regard to length, unless the fracture be very oblique, and its pointed spiculse irritate the muscles, and make them contract with in- creased power; or unless the blow, which was very violent, continued to operate after the bone had been broken, and forced the ends of the frac- ture from their state of apposition. In this way, the body of the humerus has been drawn or driven upward, so as to protrude through the deltoid muscle, and integuments, far above the height of. the head of the bone. But commonly, as Petit observes, the weight of the limb powerfully resists the action of the muscles, and the displacement of the fracture is more liable to be transverse. In this circum- stance, the lower end of the fracture is displaced outward or inward, and rarely in any other direc- tion. In the most frequent case, the elbow is se- parated from the trunk, and cannot be brought near it without pain ; and in the instance of the bone being displaced outward, the limb has a tendency to the opposite direction. A fracture of the neck of the humerus is not a serious event, and if, as Heister remarks, prope caput, Jractura pejar, et difficilius curatur, it is ’ess on account of the nature and situation of the disease, than of the difficulty experienced in maintaining the ends of the fracture in contact. The reduction usually presents but few difficul- ties, and the multiplicity of means formerly em- ployed for its accomplishment, serve only to ex- hibit the uselessness of such resources. Most of the machines, designed for reducing dislocations of the humerus, were applied to this kind of fracture. To such machines suc- ceeded the use of pulleys, weights suspended to the limb, &c. useless plans, as their only tend- ency was to increase the natural power, which was always more than sufficient. Petit proposes to reduce the fracture, by first placing the arm at a right angle with the body; and then making extension with the hands of an assistant, applied above the elbow; while the counter-extension is made by another assistant, who is to take hold of the fleshy part of the shoulder. This method is liable to three incon- veniences. It fatigues and even pains the pa- tient ; it lessens the extending powers by bring- ing them near the moveable point; and it irri- tates such muscles as proceed from above to the lower end of the fracture, and thus increases their disposition to contract. Hence, difficulties some- times attended the reduction, which is always simple, when, the trunk being fixed, gentle ex- tension is made on the fore-arm half bent. De- sault used to accomplish the reduction in the fol- lowing way. The patient may either sit upon a chair, or the edge of a bed. The arm is to be a little sepa- rated from the trunk, and carried somewhat for- ward. An assistant is to fix the trunk by drawing towards him the arm of the opposite side. This mode of making extension is preferable to that commonly employed, and which is effected by applying the hands to the upper part of the af- fected shoulder. The other being more distant from the resistance, there is no need for exerting so much power; and the patient’s body being quite uncovered, the surgeon can conveniently ap- ply the bandage, without disturbing the extension. A second assistant extends the fore-arm half bent, which he makes use of as a lever, placing one hand behind the wrist for the purpose of a fulcrum. The other hand, applied to the front and middle part of the fore-arm, and making pressure upon it from above downward, represents the power. The ends of the fracture, which are to be placed in apposition, form the resistance. The relaxation of muscles, produced by the half-flexion of the fore-arm, and the position of the arm a little raised from the side, are pecu- liarly favourable to this mode of extension, re- commended by the ancients and English. This method has also the advantage of leaving un- covered every part of the limb, to which the ap- paratus is to be applied. The reduction takes place of itself, on employ- ing a very little force, methodically directed, ac- cording as the fracture is displaced inward or outward. If the surgeon put his hands on the situation of the fracture, it is rather to examine the state of the ends of the broken bone, than to accomplish a thing seldom required, namely, what is implied by the term coaptation. Every apparatus for the cure of fractures being only resistances, made by art to the powers causing the displacement of the broken part, it follows, that the whole should act in an inverse ratio to such powers. We have seen, that these consisted; I. Of the action of external bodies, favoured by the extreme mobility of the arm and shoulder; 2. Of the action of the latissimus dorsi, pectoralis major, and teres major, which draw inward the lower end of the fracture, or, what is more common, of the deltoid, which pulls it outward; 3. Of the contractions of the mus- cles of the arm, which tend to draw the end of the fracture a little upwards. Hence, 1. to render the arm and shoulder immoveable; 2. to bring either outward, or in- ward, the loWer end of the fracture; 3. to draw downward the same; are the three indications, which every bandage, destined for a fracture of the neck of the humerus, ought to fulfil. The last object merits less attention, than the two others, because the weight of the arm is alone al- most sufficient for the purpose. Desault used to employ the following apparatus for the cure of fractures of the neck of the humerus. 1. Two bandages, one about five or six ells long ; the other eight or ten; both about three inches wide. 2. Three strong splints, of differ- ent lengths, and between two and three inches broad. 3. A cushion or pillow, three or four inches thick at one of its ends, terminating at the other in a narrow point, nnd long enough to reach from the axilla to the elbow. 4. A sling to support the fore-arm. 5. A towel to cover the whole of the apparatus. The reduction is to be effected as above ex- plained, and the assistants are to continue the * i i ! t jr i i i ;