1048 TREPHINE. insinuate itself through the fracture, anil do mis- chief to the dura mater and brain. Authors recommend the shape of the incision to be different according to the kind of fracture, and the parts of the head, on which the violence has operated. When the whole extent of the in- jury can be brought into view, by means of an incision, having the form of a letter T, the sur- geon should be content with such a division ; but, if this be not sufficient, he may give it a crucial shape. When the trephine is to be ap- plied to the squamous part of the temporal bone, we are recommended to malce the incision, as much as possible, In the shape of the letter V, the branches of which are to be upward, and the angle downward, in order that as little as possi- ble of the temporal muscle may be cut, and that the division of its fibres may be avoided as far as it is in our power. Having divided the scalp, the next object is to reflect it; but, no man would be warranted in cutting any part of it away, although such prac- tice is advised by Pott, and many other eminent writers. The purposes of the operation do not require any removal of this kind ; and the me- thod would leave a wound, which would be long in healing, and, when healed, never exempt from deformity. In short, the reflected flaps of the scalp are capable of adhering to the parts, on which they are laid, after the operation, and, consequently, ought never to be wantonly cut away. The scalp being reflected, authors next advise us to scrape away the pericranium, either with the knife, or the raspatory. Perhaps, this measure may be considered as one, which does neither much harm, nor much good. The design is to facilitate the application of the trephine to the bone. However, the teeth of a proper instru- ment, in good order, will not be impeded by the slender periosteum; and scraping this membrane away from parts of the skull, which are not to be removed, must be conducive to exfoliations. Sometimes, the bleeding from branches of the temporal, or occipital artery, is so copious, that the bone cannot be very conveniently perforated before the hemorrhage is suppressed. If it be prudent to wait a little, and the case (as it ge- nerally does) should be likely to be benefited by the evacuation of blood, it is as well to let the bleeding continue for a certain time. The sur- geon may then just direct an assistant to put the end of one of his fingers on the mouth of the vessel, and proceed in the operation. In some cases the bleeding might be so troublesome, that it would be better to tie the artery at once. All parts of the cranium do not admit of being trephined with equal convenience and safety. It has usually been set down by sur- gical authors, that the trephine cannot be ap- plied below the transverse ridge of the os oc- cipitis. There are some cases, however, which prove that such an operation may be safely done, and that we ought not, in urgent circum- stances, to be afraid of dividing the trapezius and complexus muscles, in order to be enabled to apply the trephine to the bone. (See Jlutchi- xon’s Cane in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol.2, p. 104, ^c.) The majority of writers also forbid the ap- nlication of the trenhine to the frontal sinuses, in consequence of the indeterminate depth of these cavities, and the apprehension of incurable fistula:. However, Larrey has deviated from this precept in several instances, and his practice confirms the statement of Mr. C. Hell, that, by opening the frontal sinus with a large trephine; and then using a small one. the internal parietei of this cavity may be trephined with perfect safety, and no risk of injuring the dura mater with the saw. (See Larrey's Mem. dc Chi. rurgie Militairc, T. 2, p. 106—138, T. 4.) Writers also caution us not to apply the tre- phine to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, in consequence of the middle artery of the dura mater lying under it, generally in a groove of the bone, and occasionally in a canal in its very substance. In the latter circumstance, this portion of the parietal bone, could not possibly be taken away, without wounding the vessel. However, notwithstanding this advice, which has been unthinkingly handed down by one writer to another, from generation to generation, I very much question the soundness of the doc- trine. We undoubtedly ought to avoid tre- phining this part of the cranium, when we can prudently do so. But the causes demanding this operation are always so urgent, that the patient’s sole chance of existence depends on their quick removal. Hence, were there pressure on the brain, either from a depressed portion of bone, from blood, or matter, and such pressure could not be removed without trephining the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, what operator would be afraid of doing so? Besides the fear of the hemorrhage has been very unfounded; for, the lodgment of the artery in a bony furrow, or canal, which authors have pointed out as render- ing the suppression of the hemorrhage more dif- ficult, is a mere visionary idea, as it is well known, that a little plug of lint, pushed into the orifice of a vessel, so situated, will always stop the bleeding, with as much certainty and ease as can possibly be imagined. Tlie foregoing suggestion was made in the early editions of my works, and I now see the safety of the practice has been confirmed. “ I have also applied the trepan (says Larrey) over the track of the spheno-spinous artery, at the inferior anterior angle of the parietal bone. The artery was divided ; but, I stopped the hemor- rhage almost immediately, by applying an iron probe red hot.” [Mem. dc Chir. Militairc, T. %p. 138.) Writers, until very lately, also prohibited us from trephining over any of the sutures, and, especially, over the sagittal suture, beneath which the longitudinal sinus is situated. The fear of the dura mater being injured, and of this vessel being wounded, was the reason for the advice. With regard to the sutures in general, the trephine may be applied to them, as well as to any other part; and, as for the sagittal suture, many facts confirm the propriety of not being deterred even by it, though situated immediately over the longitudinal sinus. It is to be re- membered, also, that the dura mater, in cases of extravasated blood, and matter, beneath the cranium, is detached by the intervention of such fluids from the inner table. By means of a perforation practised over the sagittal suture, Garengcot successfully elevated