57 AMPUTATION. ef topical remedies, and that there is nothing, except the total separation of the part affected, upon which any rational hopes of cure can be built. Cancer is not frequently seen on the ex- tremities. Every man of experience, however, must occasionally have seen, in this situation, if not actually cancer, diseases quite as intractable, and which cannot be cured, except by removing the affected part. This may often be accom- plished, without cutting off the whole limb. But, when the disease has spread beyond certain bounds, amputation, above the part affected, is the only thing to which recourse can be had with any hope of success. Sometimes when the ope- ration has been delayed too long, even amputa- tion itself will not effect a cure. In a few cases of fungus hrematodes, the operation has succeed- ed, however, when the disease had reappeared, after a cure had been seemingly achieved by the excision of the diseased parts. Yet, from what I have seen of fungus hsematodes, I should much doubt, whether the benefit obtained by amputa- tion would be lasting, as when this disease shews itself only externally, internal organs are mostly at the same time similarly affected. (See Fungus lhmiutnd.es.) Besides cancerous, there are other ulcers, which may render amputation indispensable. Thus, when an extensive ulcer, of any sort whatsoever, is evidently impairing the health; when, instead of yielding to remedies, it becomes larger and more inveterate; when, in short, it puts life in imminent danger; amputation should be ad- vised. 9. Various tumours. That there are numerous swellings, which de- stroy the texture of the limbs, rendering them useless; causing dreadful sufferings, and bring- ing the patients into the most debilitated state, no man of observation can fail to have seen. When such tumours can neither be dispersed, nor cut out with safety, amputation of the limb is the only resource. Mr. Pott has particularly described a tumour affecting the leg, for which the operation is some- times requisite. It has its seat in the middle of the calf of the leg, or rather more towards its up- per part, under the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. It begins by a small, hard, deep-seated swelling, sometimes very painful, sometimes but little so, and only hindering the patient’s exer- cises. It does not alter the natural colour of the skin, at least until it has attained a considerable size. It enlarges gradually, does not soften as it enlarges, but continues through the greatest part of it incompressibly hard, and, when it is got to a large size, it seems to contain a fluid, which may be felt towards the bottom, or resting, as it were, on the back part of the bones. If an open- ing be made for the discharge of this fluid, it must be made very deep, and through a strangely distempered mass. This fluid is generally small in quantity, and consists of a sanies mixed with grumous blood: the discharge of it pro- duces very little diminution of the tumour, and very high symptoms of irritation and inflamma- tion come on, and advancing with great rapidity, and most exquisite pain, very soon destroy the patient, either by the fever, which is high, and unremitting, or by a mortification of the whole leg. If amputation has not been performed, and the patient dies, after the tumour has been freely opened, the mortified and putrid state of thepafts, prevents all satisfactory examination; but, if the limb was removed, without any previous epera- tion, (and which Mr. Pott, in his experience, found to be the only way of preserving the pa- tient’s life) the posterior tibial artery will be found to be enlarged, distempered, and burst; the muscles of the calf to have been converted into a strangely morbid mass; and the posterior part of both the tibia and fibula more or less ca- rious. (Pott on Amputation.) It seems only necessary to adduce another species of tumour to illustrate the necessity of amputation. The following case is related by Mr. Abernethy. A woman was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital with a hard tumour in the ham. It was about four inches in length, and three in breadth. She had also a tumour in front of the thigh, a little above the patella, of lesser size and hardness. The tumour in the ham, by its pressure on the nerves and vessels, had greatly benumbed the sensibility, and ob- structed the circulation of the leg, so that the limb was very oedematous. As it appeared im- possible to remove this tumour, and its origin and connexions were unknown, amputation was performed. On examining the amputated limb, the tumour in the ham could only be divided with a saw. Several slices were taken out of it by this means, and appeared to consist of a coagu- lable and vascular substance, in the interstices of which, a great deal of bony matter was deposited. The remainder of the tumour was macerated, and dried, and it appeared to be formed of an ir- regular and compact deposition of the earth of bone. The tumour on the front of the thigh was of the same nature as that of the ham, but contained so little lime, that it could be cut with a knife. The thigh bone was not at all diseased, which is mentioned, because when bony matter is deposited in a limb, it generally arises from the disease of a bone. (Surgical, Observations, 1804.) Before the late facts and improvements, rela- tive to the treatment of aneurisms, these cases, on the extremities, were generally set down as requiring amputation. Even Mr. Pott, and J. L. Petit, wrote in recommendation of such prac- tice, and their observations on this subject are among the few parts of their writings, which the enlargement of surgical knowledge, since their time, has rendered objectionable. The surgeon, to whom the honour of first correcting this erro- neous doctrine belongs, is A. N. Guenault, who opposed the advice delivered on this subject by Petit. (Haller, Disp. Cnir. vol. b,p. 155.) I shall conclude these remarks on the cases requiring amputation, with advising suigcons never to undertake this serious operation, with- out consulting the opinions of other professional men, whenever their advice can be obtained. I he best operators are often deficient in that invalua- ble kind of judgment, by which thp cases, abso- lutely demanding amputation, are discriminated from others, in which the operation may be wisely postponed, and a chance taken of preserving the limb. Historical llemarks on Amputation. The history of amputation evinces, that the