OPHTHALMY. S99 shed, and this change is the greater, the er the white of the eye appears. These ef- , which occur almost simultaneously, are | wed bv pain, which increases every moment, I *st extending over the whole eyeball, and to the surrounding parts, and to the top of [ lead. As the pain grows more severe, every , Client of the eyeball and palpebrae becomes ■ distressing, the dryness of the eye greater, the redness of the sclerotic conjunctiva Mients, either more slowly, or quickly, ac- I ing to the degree of inflammation, until the ork of blood vessels, which was at first di- j ;uishable, entirely disappears, and the con- [ ;iva looks like a piece of red cloth, quite con- - ng the sclerotica, and forming round the ea a very painful, firm, uniform circular :ction. Thus, the cornea seems as if it lay in iression, with its margin partly covered by inflammatory swelling of the conjunctiva. he period, when the protuberance of the latter i ibrane takes place, the cornea itself always mes less and less clear, and of a reddish - colour, so that neither the iris nor the 1 can be any longer distinguished, and the er of vision is reduced to a faint perception of t. The pain, which was that of heaviness tension, now becomes of a throbbing de- ation, and the eyelids, which now begin to icipate in the effects of the inflammation, ■ no longer capable of covering properly the led conjunctiva. The eyeball and eyelids are ictly motionless; and, if an attempt be made he patient to move them, the efforts of the cles may be perceived, but still no movement he parts intended is performed. The orbit ; as if it were too small for the eye, and the ttitution suffers a severe attack of inflamma- fever. Thus, says Beer, does the first stage -his form of ophthalmy gradually rise to its lest degree, to which lie applies the name of ? chcntim9. lowever, it is observed, that idiopathic exter- ophthalmv does not always become so vio- , as for instance, when the complaint has been ited merely by the lodgment of some small iign body under the eyelids; for, though, in h a case, the conjunctiva and sclerotica are 1 reddened together, yet even when no aid is rded, if no other sources of greater irritation present, the redness does not readily increase is quite to conceal the sclerotica, or to he at- ded with an inflammatory swelling all around cornea. This milder form of external thalmy has sometimes received the name of 7,ri.». It is the mild acute ophthalmy, of .rpa, characterized, as this author says, by ness of the conjunctiva and lining of the eye- » an unnatural sensation of heat in the eyes, ■nsiness, itching, and shooting pains, as if d were lodged between the eye and eyelids, the place, where the pain seems most severe, irpa remarks, that some blood vessels appear ro prominent and turgid, than other vessels the same class. The patient keeps his eye- s closed; for he feels a weariness and re- amt in opening them, and by this means, he 0 ,n°derates the action of the light, to which cannot expose himself, without increasing the rnmg sensation, lancinating pain, and effusion tear*. It the constitution he irritable, the pulse will be a little accelerated, particularly to- wards the evening; the skin dry; and some- times slight shlverings, and nausea and sickness take place. According to Scarpa, mild acute ophthalmy is often the consequence of a cold, in which the eyes, as well as the pituitary cavities, fauces, and trachea, are affected. It is not unfrequently oc- casioned by change of weather, sudden transi- tions from heat to cold, the prevalence of easterly winds, journeys through damp, unhealthy, sandy countries, in the hot season of the year, exposure of the eyes to the vivid rays of the sun, draughts of cold air, dust, &c. Hence, it does not seem extraordinary, that it should often make its ap- pearance as an epidemic, and afflict persons of every age and sex. As additions to the list of remote causes, authors enumerate the suppression of some habitual evacuation, as bleedings from the nose, or piles, the menses, &c. u disordered state of the primse viae, worms, dentition, &c. Between Beer and some late writers, there is either one point of difference in their descrip- tions of external ophthalmy, or else they mean different eases; for, while Beer represents the redness as affecting the sclerotica at first more than the conjunctiva, other writers describe the affection of the sclerotica as generally secondary, when it happens at all; for, according to mo- dern observations, it is not unavoidably either an attendant upon, or an effect of, simple in- flammation of the conjunctiva. As the second stage of external ophthalmy comes on, the symptoms vary, according to the degree of the complaint in its first stage; but when, what Beer calls, a true chemosis is pro- duced, the following are described by him as the usual appearances. The circular prominent fold of the conjunctiva, round the cornea, becomes of a dark red colour, and the swelling increases, but it becomes softer and less painful. The hardly visible portion of the cornea, situated in the depression formed by the circular protu- berance of the conjunctiva, seems at first per- fectly white, and afterwards yellowish, being the seat of more or less purulent matter. Though the swelled conjunctiva is everywhere moistened with a thin whitish mucus, this secretion, says Beer, is never so copious as to run over the face, as in the case of ophthalmo-blennorrhcea. In this stage, the lower eyelid is turned some- what outwards, in consequence of its lining be- coming more swelled. While suppuration is taking place in the cornea, attended with the febrile symptoms, which usually accompany the formation of acute abscesses, little collections of matter sometimes occur at different points of the conjunctiva, and, after they have burst, a probe may easily be passed rather deeply into them, without any particular pain. (Beer, B. 1, p- 412.) The suppuration continually advancing, the swelling of the conjunctiva, and of the whole eyeball, now diminishes, the effects of the inflam- mation penetrate deeply into the organ, and the structure of the eye is so altered, as not to he cognizable, the part shrivelling up, as Beer s.iys, into a motionless, whitish mass. However, according to this author, these deep effects of suppuration are sometimes produced only in a certain part of the eyeball, especially when the chemosis is the consequence of an external in. 3 M 2