407 ECTROPIUM. van now be no longer called in question, when we daily see it proved in modern practice, that the largest aneurismal swellings are thus speedily diminished and removed, after the operation of tying the arteries, front which such tumors arise. I wish, however, the preceding observations merelv to convey a general condemnation of the practice of opening swellings containing extrava- sated blood; for, no surgeon is more assured, j than I am myself, that there are particular ex- ceptions, in which the plan is highly proper and necessary. Thus, whenever a case ot extensive ecchymosis, or a large tumor ot extravasated blood, either excites suppuration, or creates ex- cessive pain from distention, it is better to practise a free opening. So it sometimes happens, in cases of aneurism, that the skin breaks after the artery has been tied, and some of the blood escapes; but the remainder putrefies, and soon becomes blended with purulent matter in the sac. Here the making of a free incision for the dis- charge of the irritating contents of the swelling, with due attention to every caution, delivered in the article Aneurism, will often be followed by beneficial effects. ECTROPIUM. (from £x7«™, to divert.) A turning out, or an eversion of the eyelids. It is remarked by Scarpa, that just as excessive relaxation of the skin of the eyelids, and a mor- bid contraction of their lining, near the edges, in consequence of ulcerations and cicatrices, occa- sion a faulty inclination of the tarsus and eye- lashes against the eye ; so, sometimes, an elong- ation and swelling of the membranous lining of the eyelids, or too great a contraction and short- ening of the skin of the eyelid itself, or neigh- bouring parts, produce an opposite disorder to trichiasis, viz. an eversion of the eyelids, termed ectrnpium. Of course, in respect to causes, there are two species of this disease; one, produced by an un- natural swelling of the lining of the eyelids, which not only pushes their edges from the eye- ball, but also presses them so forcibly, that they become everted ; the other, arising from a con- traction of the skin covering the eyelid, or of t that in the vicinity, by which means the edge of the eyelid is first removed for some distance •from the eye, and afterwards turned completely outward, together with the whole of the affected eyelid. The morbid swelling of the lining of the eye- lids, which causes the first species of eetropium (putting out of present consideration a similar affection incidental to old age), arises mostly from a congenital laxity of this membrane, after- wards increased by obstinate chronic ophthal- mies, particularly of a scrophulous nature, in relaxed, unhealthy subjects; or else the disease originates from the small pox affecting the eyes. While the disease is confined to the lower eye- lid, as it most commonly is, the lining of this part may be observed rising in the form of a se- aiilunar fold, of a pale red colour, like the fun- gous granulations of wounds, and intervening H- between the eye and eyelid, which latter it in some measure everts. When the swelling is ifterwards occasioned by the lining of both the eyelids, the disease assumes an annular shape, in lie centre of which the eyeball seems sunk, while the circumference of the ring presses, and everts the edges of the two eyelids so as to cause both gretft uneasiness and deformity. In each of the above cases, on pressing the skin of the eyelids with the point of the finger, it becomes manifest, that they are very capable of being elongated, and would readily yield, so as entirely to cover the eye-ball, were they not prevented by the in- tervening swelling of their membranous lining. Besides the very considerable deformity, which the disease produces, it occasions a continual dis- charge of, tears over the cheek, and, what is worse, a dryness of the eye-ball, frequent exas- perated attacks of chronic ophthalmy, incapacity to bear the light, and, lastly, opacity and ulcera- tion of the cornea. The second species of eetropium, or that ari- sing from a contraction of the integuments of the eyelids, or neighbouring parts, is not unfrequently a consequence of puckered scars, produced by the confluent small-pox; deep burns; or the exci- sion of cancerous, or encysted tumors, without saving a sufficient quantity of skin; or, lastly, the disorder is the effect of malignant carbuncles, or any kind of wound attended with much loss of substance. Each of these causes is quite enough to bring on such a contraction of the skin of the eyelids, as to draw these parts to- wards the arches of the orbits, so as to remove them from the eyeball, and turn their edges out- ward. No sooner has this circumstance hap- pened, than it is often followed by another one equally unpleasant, namely, a swelling of the in- ternal membrane of the affected eyelids, which afterwards has a great share in completing the eversion. The lining of the eye-lids, though tri- vially everted, being continually exposed to the air, and irritation of extraneous substances, soon swells, and rises up, like a fungus. One side of this fungus-like tumor covers a part of the eye- ball; the other pushes the eyelid so considerably outward, that its edge is not unfrequently in con- tact with the margin of the orbit. The com- plaints, induced by this second species of eclro- pium, are the same as those brought on by the first; it being noticed, however, that in both cases, whenever the disease is inveterate, the fungous swelling of the inside of the eyelids, be- comes hard, coriaceous, and, as it were, callous. Although in both species of eetropium, the lin- ing of the eyelids seems equally swollen, yet the surgeon can easily distinguish to which of the two species the disease belongs. For, in the first, the skin of the eyelids, and adjoining parts, is not deformed with scars, and by pressing the everted eyelid with the point of the finger, the part would with ease cover the eye, were it not for the intervening fungous swelling. But, in the second species of eetropium, besides the ob- vious cicatrix and contraction of the skin of the eyelids, or adjacent parts, when an effort is made to cover the eye with the everted eyelid, by press- ing upon the latter part with the point of the finger, it does not give way. so as completely to cover the globe, or only yields, as it ought to do, for a certain extent; or it does not move in the, least from its unnatural position, by reason of the integuments of the eyelids having been soexten-j sively destroyed, that their margin has become adherent to the arch of the orbit. According to Scarpa, the cure of this disease