162 ANEURISM. the surgeon who was consulted. The swelling of the lymphatic glands, or of the cellular substance which surrounds the carotid artery ; the enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland ; and especially ab- scesses, may resemble an aneurism by the pulsa- tions, communicated to them by the neighbouring artery. On the other hand, aneurisms of long standing, which no longer throb, and the integu- ments over which are changed in colour, and likely to burst, may the more easily be mistaken by an inattentive practitioner for chronic ab- scesses, as the neck is remarkably often the seat of such diseases. (Boyer, Train; des Maladies Chinirgicalet, t. 2. p. 185.) Scarpa mentions one unfortunate patient, who was killed by a knife being plunged in a carotid aneurism, on the supposition that the case was an abscess. I need scarcely observe, that by opening a carotid aneurism, a surgeon would expose himself to the disgrace and mortification of seeing the patient die under his hands, as happened in the example cited by Harderus. (Apiur. Observa- tionum, Ohs, 86.) The possibility of tying the carotid artery, in cases of wounds and aneurisms, without any in- jurious effect on the functions of the brain, is now completely proved. Petit mentions, that the advocate Vieillard, had an aneurism at the bifur- cation of the right carotid, for the cure of which he was ordered a very) spare diet, and directed to avoid all violent exercise. Three months after this prescription, the tumor had evidently di- minished ; and, at last, it was converted into a small, hard, oblong knot, without any pulsation. The patient having died of apoplexy, seven years afterwards, the right carotid was found closed up and obliterated, from its bifurcation, as low down as the right subclavian artery. (Acad, dcs Sciences tie Pm is, m>. 1765.) Haller dissected a woman, whose left carotid was impervious. (Opuscula Pailh’l. Ohs. \9.Tnh. 1.) An example of the total closure of both carotids, in conse- quence of ossification, is stated by Koberwein to be recorded by Jadelot. (German Transl. of Mr. Hodgson's void, p. 298.) Hebenstreit, vol. 4. p. 26’6’. ed. 3. of his Translation of B. Bell's Surgery, mentions a case, in which the carotid ar- tery was wounded, in the extirpation of a scirrhous tumor. The hemorrhage would have been fatal, had not the surgeon immediately tied the trunk of the vessel. The patient lived many years afterwards. This is probably the earliest authentic instance, in which a ligature was applied to the carotid artery'. Mr. Abcrnethy’s case is perhaps the second; and that in which Mr. Fleming, a naval surgeon, tied the common carotid in a sailor, who attempted suicide, and who was saved by the operation, is still later, not having occurred till the y-ear 1803. (See Med. Chir. Jtmm. vol. 3, p. 2.) Dr. Baillie knew an instance, in which one carotid was entirely obstructed, and the diameter of the other considerably lessened, without any apparent ill effects on the brain. (See Trans, of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, vol. 1. p. 121.) Mr. A. Cooper has also recorded an example, in which the left carotid was obstructed by the pressure of an aneurism of the aorta; and yet, during life, no paralysis, nor impairment of the intellects had occurred. (See l\led. Chi'. Trans, vol. 1. p. 223.) A similar case is related by Pelletan. (Clinique Chir.t. I. p. 66.) Mr. Abernethy was under the necessity of tying the trunk of the carotid, in the case of a large lacerated wound of the neck, in which acci- dent the internal carotid and the chief branches of the external carotid were wounded. The pa- tient at first went on well; but, in the night, he became delirious and convulsed, and died about thirty hours after the ligature was applied. This case fell under my own notice, and the inference which I drew was, that the man dic'd more from the great quantity of blood which he lost, and the severe mischief done to the parts in the neck, than from any effect of the ligature of the artery- on the brain. In another instance, in which the common carotid was tied, on account of a wound of the external carotid, by- a musket-ball, complicated with fracture of the condyle and coracoid process of the lower jaw, every thing went on favourably until the seventh day' after the operation. Neither the intellectual faculties, nor the functions of the organs of sense, had been at all disturbed. But, at that period, stupor, confusion of ideas, resi- lessness, a small unsteady pulse, discoloration of the face, and loss of strength came on, followed in the evening by a violent paroxysm of fever. On the eighth day-, three copious hemorrhages took place from the whole surface of the wound, and, on the ninth, the man died. In this case, however, the affection of the brain, and the other unfavourable symptoms, would be ascribed by nobody- to the effects of the ligature on the carotid, but every- one would sec the cause in the severe and extensiv-e local mischief, produced partly by- the musket-ball, and partly by- the mode in which the operation was performed, the surgeon having extended his incisions from the parotid gland to within an inch of the clavicle! (See Journ. G6n6ral de Med. <£r. par Sedillot.) That the carotid may be tied without injuring the functions of the brain, and that aneurisms of this artery admit of being cured by the operation, is now fully proved. The following is the second instance, in which I have been present at the operation of tying the carotid trunk on account of a wound. A soldier of the 44th regiment was wounded in the neck, with a pike, at the battle of Water- loo, and was brought to Brussels. After he had been some little time in the hospital, the bleed- ing, which had stopped, recurred with great vio- lence, both from the mouth and the external wound itself; and it was therefore judged ne- cessary to tie the common carotid, which was done by- my- friend Mr. Collier. The operation was performed by- making an incision along the inner edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoideus, rais- ing this muscle from the sheath including the artery, &c. and holding aside the jugular and lower thyroid veins, which swelled up every- in- stant to a very large size, so as to overlap the artery-. This vessel being disengaged from the nerve, was then tied. Though the operation was done by candlelight, it was skilfully- performed, and reflects great credit on Mr. Collier. A de- tail of the case may- be found in a modern work. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. 7. p. 107.)