1 ISO WOUNDS. ami disagreeable consequences of punctured suppuration in punctured wounds is followed wounds are entirely owing to the narrowness of by sinuses only when the surgeon neglects their orifices, which prevents suitable applications to procure a free issue for the matter, after its trom being made to their bottom. Hence, it is accumulation ; or when lie neglects to re- absurdly recommended to dilate the opening of move any extraneous bodies. But, as dilatin'*' every stab, with the view, as is generally added, the wound at first can only tend to augment the of converting the accident into a simple incised inflammation, and render the suppuration more wound. Some of these writers are advocates for extensive, it ought never to be practised in these making the dilatation with a cutting instrument, cases, except for the direct objects of giving free while others, with equal absurdity, propose to exit to matter already collected, and of being enlarge the opening with tents. able to remove extraneous bodies palpably Certain authors regard a punctured wound, as lodged. I shall once more repeat, that it is an a recent sinus, and in order to make the inner erroneous idea to suppose the narrowness of surfaces unite, they recommend exciting a de- punctured wounds so principal a cause of the bad gree of inflammation in them, either by means symptoms, with which they are often attended, of setons, or injections. that the treatment ought invariably to aim at its In the earliest edition of The First Lines of removal. the Prut ■vice of Surgery, I have taken particular Recent punctured wounds have absurdly had pains to expose the folly and errors, which pre- vail in most writings on this part of practice. In the above work, I have remarked, that if the notion were true, that an important punctured wound, such as the stab of a bayonet, could be actually changed into a wound, partaking of the mild nature of an incision, by the mere enlargement of its orifice, the corresponding practice would certainly be highly commendable, however painful. But, the fact is otherwise: the rough violence, done to the fibres of the body by the generality of stabs, is little likely to be suddenly removed by an enlargement of the wound. Nor can the distance, to which a punc- tured wound frequently penetrates, and the num- ber and nature of the parts injured by it, be at all altered by a such a proceeding. These, which are the grand causes of the collections of matter, that often take place in the cases under con- sideration, must exist, whether the mouth and canal of the wound be enlarged or not. The time when incisions are proper, is, when there are foreign bodies to be removed, abscesses to be opened, or sinuses to be divided. To make painful incisions sooner, than they can answer any end, is both injudicious and hurtful. They are sometimes rendered quite unnecessary, *by the union of the wound throughout its whole extent, without any suppuration at all. Making a free incision in the early stage of these cases, undoubtedly seems a reasonable me- thod of preventing the formation of sinuses, by preventing the confinement of matter, and, were sinuses an inevitable consequence of all punc- tured wounds, for which no incisions had been practised at the moment of their occurrence, it would undoubtedly he unpardonable to omit them. Fair, however, as this reason may ap- pear, it is only superficially plausible, and a small degree of reflection soon discovers its want of real solidity. Under what circumstances do sinuses form ? Do they not form only where there is some cause existing to prevent the healing of an abscess? This cause may either be the, indirect way, in which the abscess com- municates externally, so that ihe pus does not readily escape; or it may be the presence of some foreign body, or carious hone; or, lastly, it may be an indisposition of the inner surface of the abscess, to form granulations, arising from its long duration, but removable by laying the cyst completely open to the influence of the air. 'lillf it I lml tllO nOrtlirrMtlfM rtf' the same plan of treatment applied to them as old and callous fistulas. Setons and stimulating injections, which, in the latter cases, sometimes act beneficially, by exciting such inflammation as is productive of the effusion of coagulating lymph, and of the granulating process, never prove serviceable when the indication is to mo- derate an inflammation, which is too apt to rise to an improper height. The counter-opening, that must be formed in adopting the use of a seton, is also an objection. However, what good can possibly arise from a seton in these cases ? Will it promote the discharge of foreign bodies, if any are presenl? By occupying the external openings of the wound, will it not be more likely to prevent it ? In fact, will it not itself act with all the inconveniences and irri- tation of an extraneous substance in the wound ? Is it a likely means of diminishing the immode- rate pain, swelling, and extensive suppuration, so often attending punctured wounds ? It will undoubtedly prevent the external openings from healing too soon; but cannot this object be effected in a better way? If the surgeon ob- serves to insinuate a piece of lint into the sinus, and pass a probe through its track once a day, the danger of its closing too soon will be re- moved. The practice of enlarging punctured wounds by incisions, and of introducing setons, is often forbidden by the particular situation of these injuries. In the first stage of a punctured wound, the indication is to guard against the attack of vio- lent inflammation. When no considerable quan- tity of blood lias been lost, general and topical bleeding should he practised. In short, the 'an- tiphlogistic plan is to he followed. As no man can pronounce, whether such wounds will unite, or not, and as no harm can result from the at- tempt, the orifice ought to be closed, and covered with simple dressings. In such cases, cold ap- plications are also highly commendable. M he- ther gentle compression might be made *o pro- mote the adhesive inflammation, or not, may be doubtful: I confess, that I should not have any reliance upon its usefulness. Perfect qui- etude is to he observed. When the pain is se- vere, opium is to be administered. Sometimes, under this treatment, the surgeon is agreeably surprised to find the consequent in- flammation mild, and the wound speedily united, ilij> firet intention “ Nmnprniis arr 1 lie* L'X-