588 HEMORRHAGE. tal surgeons now and then employ it to stop bleedings from the antrum, and the mouth. The old surgeons also very commonly ap- plied to bleeding parts pledgets, dipped in boil- ing turpentine, a practice, that has long been most justly abandoned. ASTRINGENTS, STYPTICS, &C. Le Dran, in his treatise on the operations of surgery, says, that a button of vitriol, or alum, applied and properly confined on the extremity of the vessel, is sufficient to stop the hemorrhage in amputations. Heister recoiyimends the ap- plication of vitriol, in preference to the ligature, in the amputation of the fore-arm. Great praises have also been conferred on agaric, and sponge, for their styptic properties. Solutions of iron, and all the mineral acids in various forms, have been recommended to the public, as remedies of the same kind, and possessing great efficacy. The ancients, centuries ago, left no application of this nature untried, and the pre- tended discoveries of new and more effectual styptics in later times, may almost all be met with in their writings. This fact merits particu- lar notice, because the little success, attending their practice, especially, when bleeding from a considerable arteiy was to be suppressed, clearly proves what little reliance ought to be placed on means of this description. (Encyclopedic Me- thodique; Partie Chir.) The most which styp- tics can do, is to stop hemorrhages from small arteries; but, they ought never to be trusted, when large vessels are concerned. There is no doubt, that cold air has a styptic property; by which expression, I mean, that it promotes the contraction of the vessels ; for, no stvptics can contribute to make the blood coagu- late, though such an erroneous idea is not un- common. We frequently tie, on the surface of a wound, every artery, that betrays the least dis- position to bleed, as long as the wound continues exposed to the air. We bring the opposite sides of this wound into contact, and put the patient to bed. Not an hour elapses, before the re- newal of hemorrhage necessitates us to remove the dressings. The Wound is again exposed to the air, and again the bleeding ceases. This often happens in the scrotum, after the removal of a testicle, and on the chest, after the removal of a breast. The proper conduct, in such cases, is not to open the wound unnecessarily, but, to apply wet linen to the part so as to produce such an evaporation from its surface, as shall create a sufficient degree of cold to stop the bleeding. As all styptics are more or less irritating, no judi- cious practitioners apply them to recent wounds. However, for the suppression of hemorrhage from diseased surfaces, where the vessels seem to have lost their natural disposition to contract, these applications are sometimes indicated. COMPRESSION. We fiavc already remarked, that all the best means of checking hemorrhage, operate on the principle of pressure; the actual and potential cautery, and some styptics excepted ; the two first of which act by forming a slough, which stops up the mouths of the vessels; while the latter operate by promoting their contraction. Let us next consider the various modifications of pressure. In a dissertation on the manner of stopping hemorrhage, printed in the Mem. (le VAcad, de Sciences, anne'e 1731, Petit endeavoured to prove, that different articles praised as infallible specifics, would seldom, or never, have succeeded without compression. Even when caustics were employed, it was usual to bind compresses tightly on the part, so as to resist the impulse of the blood in the artery, and the premature separation of the eschar. Had this precaution not been taken, Petit believes, hemorrhage would almost invariably have followed, and indeed, notwith- standing the pains taken to avert it by suitable compression, it did but too frequently take place on the detachment of the eschar. Petit has no- ticed, that the end of a finger, gently compress- ing the mouth of a vessel, is a sufficient means of stopping hemorrhage from it, and that nothing else would be necessary, if the finger and slump could always be kept in this posture. Hence, he endeavoured to obviate these difficulties by invent- ing a machine which securely and incessantly executed the office of the finger. The instru- ment was a double tourniquet, which, when ap- plied, compressed, at once, both the extremity of the divided artery and its trunk above the wound. The compression on the end of the vessel was permanent; that on the trunk was made only at the time of dressing the wound, or when it was necessary to relax the other. An engraving and particular description of the instrument are to be found in Petit’s memoir. Surgeons formerly filled the cavities of wounds With lint, or charpie, and then made pressure on the bleeding vessels, by applying compresses and a tight roller, over the part. The practitioners of the present day are too well acquainted with the advantages of not allowing any extraneous substance to intervene between the opposite sur- faces of a recent wound, to persist in the above plan. They know, that the sides of the wound may be brought into contact, and that compres- sion may yet be adopted, so as both to restrain particular hemorrhages, and rather promote, than retard, the union of the wound. When the,blood does not issue from any parti- cular vessel, but from numerous small ones, com- pression is preferable to the ligature. In the employment of the latter, it would be necessary to tie the whole surface of the wound. The sides of the wound are to be brought accurately toge- ther, and compresses are then to be placed over the part, and a roller to be applied with sufficient tightness to make effectual pressure, but not so forcibly as to produce any chance of the circula- tion in the limb being completely stopped. If, in bleedings from large arteries, compres- sion .can ever be prudently tried, it is when these vessels lie immediately over a bone. Bleed- ings from the radial and temporal arteries are generally cited as cases of this kind, though from the many instances of failure, which I have seen happen where the first of these vessels is con- cerned, I should be reluctant either to advise, or make such an attempt. Compression is some- times tried, when the brachial artery is wounded in phlebotomy. Here it is occasionally tried, in preference to the ligature, because the latter can-