LACHRYM In a subsequent tract, Mr. Ware observes, that if, after “ about a week or ten days, there be not some perceptible advance towards a cure, or, if, from the long continuance of the obstruc- tion, there be reason to fear, that it is too firmly fixed.to yield to this easy mode of treatment, I (|.j not hesitate to propose the operation which is now to be described." The only persons, with respect to whom I entertain any doubts as to the propriety of this opinion, are infants. In such subjects, I always think it advisable to postpone the operation, unless the symptoms be parti- cularly urgent, until they are eight or nine years old. If the disease has not occasioned an aperture in the lachrymal sac, or if this aperture be not situated in a right line with the longitudinal di- rection of the nasal duct, a puncture should be made uko the sac, at a small distance from the internal juncture of the palpebrae, and nearly in a line drawn horizontally from this juncture to- wards the nose, with a very narrow spear-pointed ■lancet. The blunt end of a silver probe, of a size rather smaller than the probes, that are commonly' used by surgeons, should then be in- troduced through the wound, and gently', but steadily, be pushed on in the direction of the nasal duct, with a force sufficient to overcome the obstruction in this canal, and until there is reason to believe, that it has freely entered into the cavity of the nose. The position of the probe, when thus introduced, will be nearly' per- pendicular; its side will touch the upper edge of the orbit; and the space between its bulbous end in the nose and the wound in the skin will usually ■be found, in a full-grown person, to be about an inch and a quarter, or an inch and three-eighths. The probe is then to be withdrawn, and a silver style of a size nearly similar to that of the probe, but rather smaller, about an inch and three- eighths in length, with a flat head like that of a nail, but placed obliquely, that it may sit close on the skin, is to be introduced through the duct, in place of the probe, and to be left constantly' in it. For the first day or two after the style has been introduced, it is sometimes advisable to wash the eye with a weak saturnine lotion, in order to obviate any' tendency to inflammation which may have been excited by the operation ; but this in general is so slight, that I have rarely had occa- sion to use any application to remove it. The style should be withdrawn once every day for about a week, and afterwards every second or third day. Some warm water should each time be injected through the duct into the nose, and the instrument be afterwards replaced in the same manner as before. I formerly used to cover the head of the style with a piece of dyachylon plaster spread on black silk; but have of late obviated the necessity for applying any plaster by blackening the head of the style with sealing wax.” Mr. Ware did not, on first trying this method, expect any relief, till the style was left off. However, he found, that the watering of the eye ceased, as soon as the style was introduced, and the sight became proportionably more useful and strong. I he wound, which Mr. Ware makes in the sac, when there is no suitable ulcerated aperture, • s only just large enough to admit the end of AL ORGANS. 757 the probe, or style; and this soon becomes a fistulous orifice, through which the style may be passed without the least pain. In short, in about a week or ten days, the treatment becomes so easy, that the patient, or any friend, is fully competent to do what is necessary. It merely consists in withdrawing the style, two, or three times a week, occasionally injecting some warm water, and then replacing the instrument as before. Some, finding no inconvenience from the style, and being afraid to leave it off, wear it for years; many others disuse it in about a month, or six weeks, and continue quite well. The ulcerations, sometimes existing over the lachrymal sac, commonly heal, as soon as the tears can pass down into the nose; but Mr. Ware mentions two instances, in which such sores did not hea until a weak solution of the hydrargyrus muria- tus, and bark, were administered. (See Ware on the Fistula Lachrymalts.) Great as the recommendation of the foregoing practice is, as delivered by Mr. Ware, Mr. Travers is strongly disposed to doubt, whether any permanent benefit was ever derived from letting the style remain in.the passage. W-hen an abscess over the sac has been opened, this gentleman, instead of the introduction of a style into the ductus nasalis, recommends simply the examination of the duct with a fine probe. “ If the probe passes without resistance into the nose, the case requires no further operative treatment, the integument recovers its healthy condition under an emollient application, the discharge gradually diminishes, and the wound heals. If, 'on the other hand, upon jexamination .with ttye probe, introduced through the wound, into the sac, resistance is o ffered to its passage into the nose, no more favourable opportunity will be presented for overcoming sueli resistance. This, therefore, should be accomplished, but to this the operative process should be limited, and the wound should be suffered to heal without further disturbance.” When there is what Mr. Travers terms a stricture in the nasal duct, and the pas- sage of the probe is more firmly resisted, he admits that some means must be employed for keeping the duct pervious, after it lias been re- opened. He never interferes with the integu- ments, except in the case of abscess .discolouring the skin, and threatening to produce a fistula; and for the purpose of restoring the passage, lie uses a set of silver probes, of about five inches long, of various sizes, flattened at one end, and slightly bulbous at the point. When there is no obstruction, these, he says, may be introduced witli perfect facility from either eff the puncta lachrymalia into the nostril. “ If the puncturu be constricted, it is readily entered, and dilate^ by a common pin; and, upon withdrawing it, by one of the smaller probes. The direction and relative situation of the lachrymal ducts, the sac, and nasal canal, point out the proper course of the instrument. It is confirmed by its ad- vance, without the employment ot force, and the sensation conveyed by the free and unincumbered motion of its point. Until the point is fairly within the sac, it is necessary to keep the eyelid gently stretched and slightly everted ; the upper lid being drawn a little upward toward the bro\v; the lower, u3 much downward toward tire z.vgo-