56 7 HEAD. are not pressing at first, but they soon increase to such a degree, as to baffle all our art: from whence it will appear, (hat when this is the case, the patient frequently suffers from what seems at first to indicate his safety, and prevents such attempts being made, and such care from being taken of them, as might prove preventive of mischief. “ But if the integuments are so injured as to excite or claim our early regard, very useful in- formation may from thence be collected; for whether the scalp be considerably bruised, or whether it he founji necessary to divide it for the discharge of extravasated blood, or on account of worse appearances, or more urgent symptoms, the state of the pericranium may be thereby sooner and more certainly known: if in the place of such bruise, the pericranium be found spontaneously detached from the skull, having a quantity of discoloured sanies between them under the tumid part, in the manner already mentioned, it may be regarded as a pretty cer- tain indication, either that the dura mater is be- ginning to separate in the same manner, or that it some preventive means be not immediately used, it will soon suffer; that is, it will inflame, separate from the skull, and give room for a col- lection of matter between them. And with re- gard to the wound itself, whether it was madp at the time of the accident, or afterward artificially, it is the same thing; if the alteration of its ap- pearance be as related, if the edges of it spon- taneously quit their adhesion to the bone, and the febrile symptoms are at the same time making their attack, these circumstances will serve to convey the same information, and to prove the same thing. “ The particular effect of contusion is fre- quently found to attend on fissures, and unde- pressed fractures of the cranium, as well as on extravasations of fluid, in cases where the bone is entire; and, on the other hand, all these do often happen without the concurrence of this in- dividual mischief. All this is matter of accident; but let the other circumstances be what they may, the spontaneous separation of the altered pericra- nium, in consequence of a severe blow, is almost always followed by a suppuration between the K cranium and dura mater; a circumstance ex- I tremely well worth attending to in fissures and undepressed fractures of the skull, because it is i f from this circumstance principally, that the bad = symptoms, and the hazard, in such cases arise. “ It is no very uncommon thing for a smart : blow on the head to produce some immediate bad v symptoms, which after a short space of time dis- ' • appear, and leave the patient perfectly well. A ■ slight pain in the head, a little acceleration of pulse, a vertigo and sickness, sometimes imme- diately follow such accident, but do not continue many hours, especially, if any evacuation has been used. These are not improbably owing to a slight commotion of the brain, which having suffered no material injury thereby, soon cease. I But if, after an interval of some time, the same symptoms are renewed; if the patient, having been well, becomes again feverish, and restless, without any new cause; if he complains of being languid and uneasy, sleeps disturbedly, uses his appetite, has a hot skin, a hard quick puli*, and a flushed, heated countenance; and neither irregularity of diet, nor accidental cold, have been productive of these; mischief is most certainly impending, and that most probably under the skull. “ If the symptoms of pressure, such as stupidity, loss of sense, voluntary motion, &c. appear some few days after the head has suffered injury from external mischief, they do most probably imply an effusion of a fluid somewhere: this effusion may be in the substance of the brain, in its ventricles, between its membranes, or on the surface of the dura mater; and which of these is the real situation of such extravasation, is a matter of great uncertainty, none of them being attended with any peculiar mark or sign that cun be depended upon, as pointing it out precisely ; but the inflammation of the dura mater, and the formation of matter between it and the skull, in consequence of contusion, is generally indicated and preceded by one which Mr. Pott has hardly ever known to fail; a puffy, circumscribed, in- dolent tumor of the sculp, and a spontaneous separation of the pericranium from the skull ■under such tumor. “ These appearances, therefore, following a smart blow on the head, and attended with lan- guor, pain, restlessness, watching, quick pulse, head-ach, and slight irregular shiverings, do almost infallibly indicate an inflamed dura mater, and pus, either forming or formed, be- tween it and the cranium.’’ By detachment of the pericranium, is not meant every separation of it from the bone which it should cover. It may be, and often is, cut, torn, or scraped ofp without any such con- sequence; but these separations are violent, whereas that which Mr. Pott means is sponta- neous, and is produced by the destruction of those vessels by which it was connected with the skull, and by which the communication betweeu it and the internal parts was carried on ; and therefore it is to be observed, that it is not the mere removal of that membrane which causes the bad symptoms, but it is the inflammation of the dura mater; of which inflammation, this spontaneous secession of the pericranium is an almost certain indication. Sometimes the scalp is so wounded at the time of the accident, or so torn away, as to leave the bone perfectly bare; and yet the violence has not been such as to produce the evil just now spoken of. In this case, if the pericranium be only turned back, along with the detached portion of scalp, there may be pro- bability of its reunion; and it should therefore be immediately made clean and replaced, for the purpose of such experiment; which, if it suc- ceeds, will save time, and prevent considerable deformity. Should the attempt fail, it can only be in consequence of the detached part sloughing. Hence, removing it with a knife, though allowed by Pott, is now never practised. Frequently, when the scalp does not adhere at once, it be- comes attached to the cranium afterwards by a granulating process. When the detached piece sloughs, the worst that can happen, is an exfolia- tion from the bare skull. Sometimes, the force which detaches, or re- moves the scalp, also occasions the mischief in question; but, the integuments being wounded or removed, wc cannot have the criterion of the