VENEREAL DISEASE. 1152 be found. Mr. Guthrie observes, if the “ ulcers were not without any marked appearance, and did not amend in the first fortnight, or three weeks, they generally remained for five, or seven weeks longer; and the only difference, in this respect, between them and the raised ulcer of the prepuce was, that this often remained for a longer period, and that ulcers, possessing the true characters of chancre, required in general a' still longer period for their cure, that is, from six, eight, to ten, twenty, and, even in one case, twenty-six weeks, healing up and ulcerating again on a hardened base. Those that required the greatest length of time had nothing par- excoriations ; and others, though ill-conditioned, are so small, that a fair chance otters itself of destroying every part of the disease with caustic. In all such cases, I should never commence with mercury. With respect to phagedenic and sloughing chancres, repeated experience has con- vinced me, that they are cases, in the first stage of which, at all events, mercury should always be avoided; and I believe with Mr. Guthrie, that, when this is strictly done, secondary sym- ptoms are rare. One sore of this kind was long ago pointed out by Mr. Pearson, as not requw ring mercury, and the attention of surgeons has been of late particularly directed to it bv Mr. tieular in their appearance, that would lead us Bacot. “ It is characterized by a great derange- to distinguish them from others of the same kind, that were healed in a shorter time.’’ Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 8, p. 558.) The same writer afterwards expresses his belief, that almost all the protracted cases would have been cured in one half, or even one third of the time, if a moderate course of mercury had been resorted to. In relation to the question, before us, one of the most important documents, which I have by the treatment, when bubo did not exist, was 21 days; with bubo 45 days. (See Hcnncn s Military Surgery, Ed. 2, p. 545.) And, it further appears, that, during the period, above specified, 2827 chancres, a more considerable proportion of which were probably Plunterian chancres, were treated with mercury, and that the average period, required for the cure when there was no bubo, was 83 days; with bubo, 50. As far therefore as a judgment can be formed from this official estimate, and no calculation is ever likely to be furnished on a larger, or more impartial be useful, as Mr. Carmichael observes, when the scale, the evidence tends to prove, that primary disease is in the wane, but, not until then, pre- sores may generally be cured rather sooner with- viously to which period, the best internal reme- out, than with, the administration of-mercury. dies are antimonials, sarsaparilla, guaiacum, com- But, as practitioners are not obliged to restrict pound powder of ipecacuanha, arseniate of kali, themselves either to the mercurial, or non-mer- the nitrobs acid, and nitro-muriatic bath. (See curial practice, I am of opinion, that the total rejection of mercury is by no means justified by any facts, yet before the public, concerning the time requisite for the cure on either plan, be- Obs. on the Symptoms, tyc. of the Venereal Disease, p. 202.) With respect to chancres, with a hardened base and margin, it certainty appears that many cause, as it is universally admitted, that sontc of them have healed tolerably fast without mer- cases are very tedious, unless mercury be given, cury; but a large proportion of them seem to be neither reason nor experience will sanction the tedious, when that medicine is not employed, exclusive adoption of only one mode of practice, (See three cases recorded in the work last quoted.) whether the backwardness to heal exist, or not. It may be thought, however, that the official do- On the contrary, as far as the consideration of curaent, circulated by Sir James M‘Grigor and time has weight, prudence and common sense Dr Franklin, tends to prove, that, at all events, teach us to diversify the treatment according to these sores heal sooner without, than with rner- cireumstances. But, it may be inquired, since cury. But this deduction seems hardly allow* the backward disposition of a sore to heal cannot able, because, as these faithful and impartial re- be known at first bv its mere appearance, should porters have sensibly remarked, the 28sores, the treatment bc-oin with mercury, or not? Now, treated with mercury, may be fairly presumed to although late waiters dwell very much on the have partaken of the character of Hunter s impossibility of judging of the nature of a sore chancre in a greater proportion than the 1940 by its look alone, o^ie fact is certain, that 6omc primary sores treated without mercury. (See ment of the general health, by a high state of inflammation of the part, by great local pain, and proceeds rapidly to the destruction of the parts. The situation of this sore is most com- monly in the angle between the prepuce and glans penis; and those of a full habit of body, the young and the vigorous, are most liable to its attack. The most prompt and vigorous antiphlogistic means are necessary to arrest the met with, is an official circular, signed by Sir progress of this sore; and the blood, taken away James M‘Grigor and Dr. Franklin, from which in these cases, presents the usual inflammatory it appears, that, in 1940 cases of primary vene- appearances, frequently in a very high degree, real ulcerations on the penis, eared without The exhibition of mercury-, in "this species of mercury, between December, 1816, and De- sore, is highly mischievous, and productive of cember, 1818, (including not only the more the worst consequences; nor does it often hap- simple sores, but also a regular proportion of pen, that secondary symptoms succeed, &c. (0« those with the most marked characters of Syphilis, p. 57.) Here, according to Mr. Pear- syphilitic chancre) the average period taken up son’s observations, mademany y-earsago, mercury is not perhaps necessary for the security- of the constitution ; but, I conceive, it might be more correct to say-, that the safety of the constitution actually requires, that mercury should be strictly avoided, because there is some ground for be- lieving, that, in these instances, it is not only injurious to the local disease, but conducive to secondary- symptoms. However, if the latter symptoms should arise, notwithstanding mercury has not been administered during the cure of the ulcer, alterative doses of that medicine max- still virrvii 'Jiri.'i Gonse- ■