UNG 1073 ULC are only turgid in the erect posture, the operation should be performed while the patient is standing; and if placed upon a table, on which there is a chair, the back of the chair will serve him to rest upon; and he will have the knee-joint at a very convenient height for the surgeon. The leg to be operated upon must stand with the inner ankle facing the light, which will expose very advantageously the enlarged vena saphena pass- irgover the knee-joint. While the patient is in this posture, if a fold of the skin, which is very loose at this part, is pinched up transversely, and kept in that position by the finger and thumb of the surgeon, on one side, and of an assistant on the other, this fold may be divided by a pointed scalpel, pushed through with the back of the knife towards the limb to prevent the vein being wounded ; much in the same way, as the skin is divided in making an issue. This will expose the vein sufficiently; but, there is commonly a thin membranous fascia confining it in its situa- tion ; and, when that is met with, the vein had better be laterally disengaged by the point of the knife. This is most expeditiously done by lay- ing hold of the fascia with a pair of dissecting forceps, and dividing it; for it is difficult to cut upon parts, which give little resistance, and there is a risk of wounding the vein. After this a silver crooked needle, with the point rounded off, will readily force its way through the cellular membrane connected with the vein, without any danger of wounding the vessel, and carry a liga- ture round it. This part, or, indeed, what may be considered as the whole of the operation, being finished, the patient had better be put to bed, so as to allow the vein to be in its easiest state, before the ligature is tied, and then a knot is to be made upon the vein: this gives some pain ; but it is by no means severe. The edges of the wound in the skin are now to be brought together by sticking-plaster, except where the ligature passes out, and a compress and bandage applied, so as to keep up a moderate degree of pressure on the veins, both above and below the part in- cluded in the ligature.’’ (Home on Ulecrs,p. 296. edit. 2.) It appears that A. Pare proposed and per- formed an operation, similar to that described by Sir E. Home. (The Works of A. Pare,fans- fated by Johnson; folio, p. 31.9.) An account of Mr. Brodie’s operation for the cure of vari- cose veins, and some additional remarks on the treatment of ulcers accompanied with varices, will be found in a subsequent article. See Vari- cose Veins. A description of, what has some- times been called the hospital sore, is giver ; under the head of Hospital Gangrene. For information on the subject of ulcers, con- sult Michael Underwood's Treatise on Ulcers of the Legs, <SfC. 8 vo. Land. 1783, and Surgical Tracis: 3d. edit. 1799. B. Bell, A Treatise on the Theory and Management of Ulcers, <£c. New edit. 8vo. 1791 ; and his System of Sur- gery. J. Merle, De Curationibus Ulccrum diffieilium preesertim in ernribus obviorum. Mo. Goelt. 1776. Boynton's Descriptive Ac- count of a new Method of Treating Old Ulcers of the Legs, 17.99, cd. 2. 8 vo. Bristol, 1799. Whatcly's Practical Observations on the Cure Treatment of Ulcers on the Legs, to which arc added, some Observations on Varicose Veins and Piles, by Sir Everurd Home, 1801, edit. 2. Principles of Surgery, by John Bell, Vol. 1. 1801. Hunter on the Blood, Inflammation, tye. C. Curtis, An Account of the Diseases of In- dia, Sfc. with Observations on Ulcers and the Hospital Sores of that country, Sfc. 8 vo. Edinb. 1807. Brodie on the Treatment of Varicose Veins of the Legs, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, /J.;l 95, S[c. Rieherand, Nosographie Chir. T. 1, p. 121, Sfc. ed. 4. Boyer, Traiie dcs Maladies Chir. T. 2, p. 3G5, $c. Paris, 1815. Rouse, Voyage fait u Londres cn 1814, ou Pu- rallele de la Chirurgic Angloise avee la Chi- rurgie Francoise, p 142, \c. Paris, 1815. Dr. John Thomson's Lectures on Inflamma- tion, p. 423, (|-c. Edinb. 1813. Dr. Dewar on the Treatment of Sinuous Ulcers, in Med’. Chir. Trans. Vol. 7, p. 482, <J-c. The stages cf se- veral cutaneous affections, attended with ulcera- tion, have been excellently described by Dr. Bateman in his valuable Synopsis of Cutaneous /) 2 s cases* UNGUENTUM ACIDI SULPHUPJCI. —1^. Acidi Sulphurici 3j’ Adipis Suillse praeparatee Jj.—These are to be well mixed to- gether in a glass mortar. This ointment has been used by .Dr. Duncan, of Edinburgh, for curing the itch. It has the character also of being efficacious in the reduc- tion of some chronic swellings of the joints; and when mixed with a good deal of camphor it was rubbed upon the tumor, in cases of bronehocele, by Mr. Naylor, of Gloucester, with considerable effect. As the sulphuric acid is particularly destruc- tive of vegetable substances, the parts, to which this ointment is applied, should always be cover- ed with flannel, instead of linen. UNGUENTUM ANTIMONII TARTA- RIZATI.—R. Antim. Tart. Jj. Ung. Cetacei ^j. Misce. The antimonial ointment, frequently used for exciting irritation of the skin, with the view of relieving diseases in the vicinity of the irritated part, as is exemplified in the treatment of some diseases of the eyes, and joints, and a variety of indolent swellings. UNGUENTUM CETACEI.—R. Cetacei 3yj. Cerse Albae 3ij. Olivac Olei. fluid uncias tres. These are to be melted upon a slow fire, and then briskly stirred till cold.—This ointment, spread on lint, serves as a simple dressing for wounds, ulcers, &c. UNGUENTUM CER/E CUM ACETO. —R. Cerac Alba; |iv. Olei Olivac jRj. Aceti Distillati tjij. The vinegar is to be gradually mixed with the two first ingredients, after these have been melted together. Dr. Cheston re- commends this ointment for superficial excoria- tions, cutaneous eruptions, &c. UNGUENTUM CONI I—R. Foliorum Conii recentium. Adipis Suillae praeparatac, sing. ^iv. The hemlock is to be bruised in a marble mortar, after which, the lard is to be added, and the two ingredients thoroughly in- corporated by beating. They are then to be gently melted over the fire, and after being strained through a cloth, and the fibrous part of U.n l.nn.ln/'t" ,011 t llP IlltltlTlCtlt IS IO bC m” wm