713 INFLAMMATION. apaveris alb; exsiccati |iv. Aq. Puree fovj. :oque usque remaneant Jfjij. et cola. Some practitioners, however, are inclined to link warm water alone quite as efficacious as ,e decoctions of particular herbs. Thus Dr. 'homson observes, “ herbs are now seldom used , t}ie Wav of fomentation, unless in compliance ith ancient custom, or with the prejudices of articular individuals. The discutient power of ie warm water may be increased by the ad- Ition of various substances, such as vinegar, pirits of wine; saline substances, such as com- lon salt, acetite and muriate of ammonia. But, | aese warm and stimulating embrocations are sed chiefly in the passive, chronic, or more in- olent species of inflammation.” (See Lectures' n Inflammation, p- 189.) By pursuing the treatment, recommended bove, the resolution of the inflammation will in eneral begin to take place, either in the course f three or four days, or in a shorter space of ime. At all events, it may usually be known ■efore the expiration of this period, how the dis- >rder will terminate. If the heat, pain, and >ther attending symptoms abate; and, especially, f the tumor begins to decrease, without the iccurrence of any gangrenous appearances; we nay then be almost certain, that, by a continu- ance of the same plan, a total resolution will in ime be effected. On the other hand, when all the different sym- >toms increase, and, particularly when the tumor oecomes larger, and softish, attended with a nore violent throbbing pain, we may conclude, hat the case will proceed to suppuration. Hence, an immediate change of treatment is ndicated, and such applications, as were proper, while resolution seemed practicable, are to be .eft off, and others substituted. This remark relates to the employment of cold astringent remedies, which, when suppuration is inevitable, only do harm, by retarding what cannot be avoided, and affording no relief of the pain and ■ other symptoms. If the inflammation, however, should already be treated with emollients, no alteration of the topical applications is requisite, in consequence of the inevitability of the forma- tion of matter. Indeed, emollient poultices and fomentations are the chief local means both of promoting suppuration, and diminishing the pain, violent throbbing, dee. which always pre- cede this termination of phlegmonous inflam- mation. But, besides the substitution of warm emollient applications for cold astringent lotions, prac- titioners have decided, that it is also prudent, as soon as the certainty is manifest, to relinquish the free employment of evacuations, particularly blood-letting, and to allow the patient a more generous diet. When the system is too much reduced by the injudicious continuance of rigor- ous antiphlogistic treatment, the progress of the ensuing suppuration is always retarded in a disadvantageous manner, and the patient is ren- dered too weak to support either a long conti- nued, or a profuse discharge, which it may not l>e possible to avoid. I shall conclude this article with briefly no- ticing blisters, rubefacients, issues and syna pisnis, as means often employed for the relief of particular cases of inflammation. “ Blisters (says Dr. Thomson) are never applied to a part which is actually inflamed. They seem to be chiefly useful by exciting inflammation in a con- tiguous part. It is from this tendency, which blisters have to produce inflammation, and of course a certain degree of fever, that they are seldom to be employed in acute inflammatory cases, till the constitutional symptoms are by other means in some measure subdued.”— (P. 187.) “ Of the same nature, though milder in their operation, than blisters, are the whole class of rubefacients. They produce a determination of blood to the parts to which they are applied, and in a manner not yet well understood, occasion a diminution in the action of the vessels, and con- sequently in the quantity of blood with which the inflamed parts are supplied. This influence is exerted more or less directly in different in- stances. The extremities of the intercostal arteries may open both on the pleura lining the chest, and on the surface of the skin covering it, and whatever excites an increased flow of blood into one of these textures, may be conceived to be attended with a proportionally diminished flow into the other texture. But, blisters are found by experience to be efficacious in re- moving inflammation, where no communication whatever can be traced between the blood-vessels of the inflamed part, and that to which the blister is applied. We have examples of this mode of action in the beneficial effects obtained from the application of blisters in inflammation of the brain and the membranes immediately covering it, of the lungs and intestines, or of any of the vis- cera contained in the cavity of the abdomen. The nearer in such instances the blister or rube- facient can be applied to the part inflamed, the greater is the relief obtained ; and in general, I believe, it may be laid down as a rule, that the relief, which they afford, will be proportional to the degree of inflammation, which they excite.” (See Thomson on Inflammation, p. 187, 189.) Synapisms, blisters, and issues are in many instances applied to situations, which are so re- mote from and unconnected by vessels with the inflamed parts, that it is impossible to explain their mode of operation except through the medium of the nervous system. “ The irrita- tion of a synapism applied to the foot (says Dr. Thomson) may relieve an attack of gout in the head, or stomach. Bathing the feet and legs gives relief in inflammation of the bowels; and the application of a blister, or caustic to the neck, may cure an inflammation of the eyes, &c. (P. 189.) Here counter-irritation is the prin- ciple, by which an explanation is usually at- tempted. (See Blisters.) Van Sioicten’s Commentaries on Bocrhaave ; Gortcr's Compendium Medicines, ito. Lugd. 173! ; and Chirurgia Rcpurgata, 4to. Lugd 1742. Vacca, Liber dc Inflammationis mor- hoscc, quev in humano corpora Jit, itaturd, cau- sis, rffectibus, ct curatione, I7G5. D. Magc- nisic, the Doctrine of Inflammations, founded upon reason and experience; and entirely cleared from the contradictory systems of Bocr- haavc, Van Swictcn, and others, 8vo. Load. 176'8. Cullen's First Lines of the Practice of