TESTICLE. 1010 Med. Richters Chir. Bill. 7 B. p 605); to Indeed, this last writer maintains, that many eicuta and bark ( Warner) ; to mercurial fric- common sarcoceles and scirrhi of the testicle are dons (Lc Dran, B. Bell, Riche-rand, Delpech); so much alike in their symptoms, that the differ- to the external use of the liquor amnion, acetatis ence of their nature cannot always be at once (Richter s Chir. Bihl. B.p. 127); to poultices detected by the practitioner. Hence, although containing opium (Fathergill, in Med. Ohs. <$£ I am an advocate for the early performance of Eug. Vol. 5); to a lotion made of a strong de- castration in cases of sarcocele, where there is coction of hemlock (Warner); to the steam of reason to suppose the disease so far advanced, vinegar, the repeated employment of leeches, and that the organization of the testicle is totally the application of cold, &c. The operation of all destroyed; or where internal and external reme- these means will be advantageously assisted by dies have been tried a certain time in vain ; yet, the continual use of a bag-truss, the observance these sentiments do not incline me to recommend as much as possible of an horizontal position, the operation for other examples, in which the and attention to a suitable low diet. disease is quite recent, and no plan of treatment Mr. Pott believed, that the man, who has the misfortune to be afflicted with a sarcocele, has very little chance of getting rid of the disease by any plan, except extirpation; and all the time the operation is deferred, he carries about him a part, not only useless, but burdensome, and which is every day liable to become worse, and unfit for such an operation. Now, although there is a great deal of truth in this opinion, yet, I con- ceive, it is rather exaggerated, and that it would teud to authorize the practice of castration to an extent beyond all necessity. I certainly think, with Mr. Pott, that there never was a sarcocele cured, where the organization of the testicle had been destroyed by disease, or where its structure had suffered so much as to render it incapable of the office, for which it is destined. But, such state cannot always be known by inspection, or manual examination, and were a surgeon to con- demn to the knife every testicle, which he finds affected with indolent swelling and induration, he would remove many, which, under some of the above plans of treatment, might be perfectly cured. That there are some chronic enlarge- ments of the testicle, which may be resolved, is a truth, of which experience must have convinced the generality of surgeons. The scrophulous induration, and several other swellings of this organ, which are very imper- fectly understood, may sometimes be benefited, and even entirely cured, just like some analo- gous affections of the breast. What is termed the venereal sarcocele (Mr. Pott allows) always gives way to a mercurial course properly con- ducted. The diagnosis of this case, it must be confessed, is not very clearly explained by sur- gical writers, nor was its read tv acknowledged by Mr. Hunter. According to Mr. Pott, it is seldom an early symptom, and he does not re- member ever to have seen an instance, in which it was not either immediately preceded, or ac- companied by some other appearances plainly venereal. He adds, that it has neither the inequality, nor darting pains of scirrhus. But, the question whether the case is truly syphilitic or not, is far less interesting, than the question, whether there are not many sarcoceles, which may be diminished and cured by mercury ? The affirmative cannot be questioned. I have seen many such cases myself, and there are nume- rous examples on record. A statement of several ha* been lately published by llicherand. (See Nnsogruphic Chirurgicale, T. 4, p. 300 et seip Edit. 4 ) The authority of Delpech is also on the same side. Precis Elemcntairc dcs Maladies Rcputdet, Chir. T. 3, p. 564.) whatsoever has been fairly tried. I have already enumerated various plans of treatment, which have been proved by experience to be sometimes capable of affording relief. The disease of the testicle, which is usually called the scrophulous sarcocele, like other forms of scrophula, often gets well spontaneously after a certain time, and it may frequently be considerably benefited by administering internally the conium maculaturn and small doses of the submuriate of mercury ; lotions of sea-water, or poultices of sea-weeds, being applied to the scrotum. Several other indolent enlargements of the testicle yield to frictions with camphorated mercurial ointment on the scrotum. The late Mr. Ramsden thought, that some sarcoceles might be relieved by re- moving with bougies a supposed morbid irrita- bility of the urethra, with which his theories led him to connect the origin of the complaint. (See Pract. Ohs. on Sclerocele, cj-c.) The novelty of this suggestion for a time attracted consider- able notice; but, the interest, which it once excited, has now died away; a sufficient proof, to my mind, that the practice inculcated was not of much value. From the preceding observations, it may be in- ferred, that all chronic enlargements of the tes- ticle are not incurable; but, that we ought at the same time to be duly impressed with the expe- diency of not wasting too much time in the trial of means, which are not to be depended upon, and which, if continued immoderately long, might allow the disease to advance too far to be capable of being afterwards effectually extirpated. Ac- cording to Mr. Pott, the circumstances, in which the operation of castration is advisable, or not, are of two kinds, and relate either to the gene- ral habit of the patient, and the disorders and indispositions of some of the viscera, or to the state of the testicle, and spermatic chord. A pale, sallow complexion, in those who used to look otherwise; a wan countenance, and loss of appetite and flesh, without any acute disorder; a fever of the hectic kind ; and frequent pain in the back and bowels, are, in those who are af- flicted with a scirrhous testicle, such circum- stances as would induce a suspicion of some latent mischief in some of the viscera ; in which case, as Mr. Pott truly observes, success from the mere removal of the testicle is not to be ex- pected. They, whose constitutions are spoiled by intemperance, previous to their being attacked with this disease; who have hard livers, and anasarcous limbs; he says, are not proper sub- jects for such an operation. Hard tumors within the abdomen in the regions of the liver, spleen,