AMPUTATION. 73 jug which method into practice, Mr. Alanson still unquestionably merits, however he may have erred in recommending the conical wound to be made with one sweep of the knife. Nor are there many living surgeons, who entertain a doubt of the excellence of the principle, inculcated by M. Louis, respecting the utility of dividing the loose superficial muscles first, and then such as are deeper and adherent to the bone. In fact, a com- bination of this last method, with the oblique di- vision of the muscles, not exactly by one, but several strokes of the knife, constitutes the mode of amputating at present most extensively adopt- ed, and sometimes termed, as already mentioned, amputation by a triple incision. Thus, after the skin is cut, and as much of it retracted and saved as is deemed necessary, the operator next cuts through the loose muscles of the thigh, at the edge of the retracted skin, first those on the forepart of the limb, and then such as are situ- ated behind. For this purpose, he makes two, or more sweeps of the knife as may be found ne- cessary, carefully directing them obliquely upwards towards the point, where he means to saw the bone. The oblique division of the muscles does not merely enable the operator to saw the bone higher up than he could otherwise do, and leaves at the same time more muscle for covering its extremity, but it is a preservation of sound un- detached integuments, which assuredly form the most efficient and durable covering for the stump. I say this, without precisely coinciding with Brunninghausen, who trusting entirely to skin for covering his stumps, makes an extensive de- tachment of it from the muscles, and then cuts straight down to the bone. The loose muscles, actually cut through, now retract considerably, leaving those which are deeper and attached to the bone, in a condition to be cut higher up, than could have been previously done. Lastly, these are also to be divided with the edge of the knife directed obliquely upwards towards the place, where the saw is to be applied. Some operators do more than this, for after cutting down to the bone, they follow the plan of Celsus, and detach the flesh from its whole circumference upwards with a scalpel, to the extent of) about another inch, in order to be enabled to saw the bone still higher up. “-Inter sunam viliulamque partem incidenda scalpet/o, caro usque ad os, rcducenda nb eo sana euro, et circa os suhsecnnda est, ut td qunque parte aliquid ossis nudelur.” This me- thod, I think, deserves commendation, because it may have considerable effect in hindering a pro- trusion of the bone, if it does not, in conjunction with the foregoing method of operating, and judicious dressings, render this disagreeable event quite impossible. As long as I live, however, I shall never forget a poor soldier, whose thigh had been amputated in Bergcn-op-Zoom, and who was brought about ten days after the operation into the military hospital at Oudenbosch under my care. Not the slightest union of any part of the wound had taken place; abscesses had formed under the fascia on every side of the stump; the loose skin was literally a large bag of purulent matter; the muscles were wasted to almost no- thing, and their remains retracted, and shrinking stfil further away from the extremity of the bone, w uch protruded at least three inches beyond the soft parts. This unfortunate man had been at- tacked with chronic tetanus soon after the opera- tion, and, probably, it was to the disturbance of the stump by the effects of that disease, and to the strong and continual tendency of the muscles to retract themselves, induced by this state of the system, the deplorable state of the stump was to be attributed. He lingered nearly a fortnight in the hospital before he died, previously to which event large abscesses, communicating with the hollow of the stump, surrounded the greater part of the pelvis. As I had every reason to be- lieve that the operation had been skilfully done, perhaps when I say that the above mode of am- putating will make a protrusion of the bone im- possible, it is not exactly correct, as the occur- rence may sometimes originate from causes, which are quite independent of the particular way, in which the operation has been executed. The practice of detaching the bone from the circumjacent flesh to the extent of about an inch, after the other principal incisions are completed, as advised by Celsus and Louis, I have sometimes seen done at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and have practised myself on other occasions, with the decided advantage of letting the bone be sawn higher up, than could otherwise have been effect- ed. Mr. Guthrie, after the incisions are carried down to the bone, even recommends dissecting back the muscles from it “ for the space of tivo, nr three inches, as the size of the limb, or other circumstances may requirebut, I should be reluctant myself to imitate the practice to this extent, though inclined to think most favourably of it within more moderate limits. If we reckon that three inches of the member lie between the first circular cut in the skin and the place, where the knife arrives at the bone, and then take away two or three inches more of the femur, it is clear that, in many examples, we should begetting very high uptheiimb, andflfadetachmentofthemuscles from the bone to the extent of two or three inches were thus made,itwould at all events be of no service, unless the bone would admit of being sawn at this great distance from the termination of the oblique division of the muscles. However, if this were truly practicable (a point, which I leave for others to discuss) it would certainly be consonant to the excellent general maxim, laid down by J. L. Petit, that in amputation as much of the bone, and as little of the flesh, should be taken away as possible. (See TraitS des Mai. ( Itir. T. 3. p. 150.) When this final detachment of the deep muscles from the bone is adopted, particular care, as Roux observes, should be taken always to divide the thick aponeurosis, connecting the triceps to the linea aspera. (Mem. sttr la reunion de la Plate a pres l’ Amputation, p. 10.) With respect to Desault’s method of ampu- tating the thigh by a circular incision, already mentioned, he considered turning the knife obliquely upwards quite unnecessary : his plan was to cut through the muscles, layer after layer, with the precaution of retracting the first stratum before he divided the second : the latter was then cut through on a level with the flesh that had been previously divided and retracted; and so on down to the bone. This, says he, is the right way of forming a true hollow cone, of which thc_ integuments, which were drawn up before the muscles were cut, form the base, from which arc gradually continued the various layer s oi muscles,