527 GUN-SIIOT WOUNDS. Gun-shot wounds differ very much, according immediate part struck by the ball, and as far as to the kind of body projected, its velocity, and depends upon my information from the examlna- the nature and peculiarities of the parts injured, tion of limbs that were amputated, further down- The >roiected bodies are mostly bullets, some- wards than upwards; so that from a fracture times cannon-balls, sometimes pieces of broken in the middle of the thigh, I have often seen fis- shelis and very often, on board of ship, splinters sures extend into the condyles, and cause ulcera- of wood. On account of the contusion, which tion of the cartilages of the knee joint,” &c. (On the parts suffer, from theviolent passaged'the ball Guv-shot Wounds, ]>. 190.) through them, there is most commonly a part When a ball strikes a hone, the concussion of the solids surrounding the wound deadened, produced is another occasion of bad symptoms, which is afterwards thrown off in the form of a to be added to those already mentioned. When sloudi, and which prevents such wounds from slight, its effects are confined to the injured limb; healin'* bv the first intention, and makes most of but, sometimes they extend to the neighbouring them necessarily suppurate. This does not take joints, in which they produce inflammation and place equallv in every gun-shot wound, nor in abscesses. every part of the same wound ; and the difference It is commonly stated, in surgical books, that, commonly arises from the variety in the velocity when a cannon-ball tears off a limb, it produces a of the body projected; for, where the ball has violent concussion of the whole body, and a ge- passed with little velocity, which is sometimes neral derangement of all its functions. This, the case at their entrance, but, still more frequent however, is by no means always true. I -saw at the part last wounded, the injury may often some years ago, in London, a young sailor, whose be healed by the first intention. (J. kinder, arm had been completely torn off at the shoulder, p 5<j3.) by a cannon-ball from one of the forts at Guada- Until I had the pleasure of reading the last loupe, in March 1808; he suffered no dreadful edition of a valuable book on gun-shot wounds, concussion of his body, nor were his senses at I did not know, that, at the present day, any all impaired. This case was very remarkable, as surgeons entertained the idea, that the whole the scapula was so shattered, that Mr. Cummings, track of every gun-shot wound must unavoid- of Antigua, was under the necessity of removing ably suppurate, and slough; (Guthrie on Gun- the whole of it. The patient recovered in two shot Wounds, p. 62. Ed. 2.) but, if this senti- months. From the account, which I heard, I ment prevail, it is plain from the preceding state- d0 not believe, that the axillary artery bled im- l| ment, that the authority of Mr. Hunter cannot mediately after the accident. The young man I be adduced in its support. At the same time, I was shewn to the gentlemen of St. Bartholomew’s )| believe, that few army surgeons will be inclined to Hospital, quite well. il question the correctness of Mr. Hunter's account There is one curious effect, which occasionally I of the general occurrence of a degree of slough- follows gun-shot wounds; but, I do not pretend ing, or of the deadened state of a part of the sur- to understand the rationale of it: viz. inflamma- face of a wound, particularly in the vicinity of tion and suppuration of some internal viscus, the entrance of the ball, or the truth of his ob- especially of the liver. Several such cases are servations about the common necessity of the related in the Mem. de I'Acad, de Chirurgie, and separation of such slough before the parts will according to Mr. Guthrie, many patients in the heal; and whether the dead part be thrown off peninsula, who had undergone secondary am- in small fragments with the matter, or larger putations for gun-shot injuries, were destroyed portions, the fact is still correct. by affections of their lungs, liver, &c. (On Gun- Foreign bodies more frequently lodge in gun- Aint Wounds of the Extremities, ;>. 74, et set].) shot wounds than any others, and are commonly From the circumstance of the inner surface of I of three kinds. 1. Pieces of clothing, or other gun- shot wounds being often more or less dead- things, which the ball forced before it into the ened, they are.late in inflaming. But, when a ball limb. 2. The ball itself. 3. Loose splinters of has fractured abone, which fracture has occasioned |l bone. It is only when the ball strikes the naked great injury of the soft parts, Independently of | flesh, touches no bone, and goes quite through that caused immediately by the ball itself, the in- jl the part, that the wound can be free from ex- flammation will come on as quickly, as in eases •I traneous matter. Foreign bodies are the cause 0f compound fracture; because the deadened part of numerous unfavourable symptoms, by irritating bears no proportion to the laceration or ground in | sensible parts, and exciting pain, inflammation, general. (J. Hunter, 524.) - convulsions, hemorrhage, long suppurations, &c.; From the same circumstance of a part being jl and the more uneven, pointed, and hard they are, often deadened, gun-shot wounds frequently can- I the more likely they are to produce these evils, not be completely understood in the first in- i' Hence spiculaj of boric are always the most to be stance, for, in many cases, it is at first impos- II dreaded. ( Richter.) sible to know what parts are killed, whether ihe great obliquity arid length of the fissures, bone, tendon, or soft part. Nor can this be ns- I produced in the cylindrical bones by musket certained till the slough separates, which often balls, are sucli as are not remarked in any com- makes the wound much more complicated than I mon cases of fracture. When I was with the army was previously imagined. For, very often, some in Holland, in the year 1814, I hud in my viscus, or a part of some viscus, or a part of hospital at Oudenbosch several fatal compound some large artery, or even a bone, has been I fractures of the thigh, caused by gun-shot vio- killed by the violence. If a piece of intestine has I lence. Ihe fissures in some of these examples been killed, the contents of the bowel will begin were found to extend two-thirds of the length of to come through the wound when the slough the bone. This fact is noticed by Mr. Guthrie: separates. If a portion of a large blood-vessel “ l‘,e f^ctures extend far above and below the be killed, a profuse, and even fatal hemorrhage