JOIN and they were so afraid of a return of the suf- fering, that they preferred remaining perfectly quiet to running any risk of, causing the pain a^ain. He even asserts, that he had known some persons, in whom the least motion of the limb would cause such pain as awoke them out of the deepest sleep. The pain, excited by the situation of the extraneous body betwixt the articular surfaces, recurs at intervals more or less long, and always in consequence of some motion, or exertion. Sometimes it ceases di- rectly by the effect of a movement, contrary to that, which produced it; but, most frequently it continues, and then the surrounding soft parts are affected with swelling, which obliges the patient to keep his bed, and have recourse to emollient anodyne applications. Sometimes, as I have already noticed, the foreign body lies at a part of the joint, where it causes no incon- venience, and makes no pressure on the articular surfaces. In this case, all the symptoms have been known to cease for several months, so that the patient imagined himself cured, when, sud- denly, the foreign body was urged by some effort into another situation, where it occasioned a re- newal of all the former pain. The foregoing circumstances afford strong presumptive evidence of the presence of ex- traneous cartilaginous substances in the joint; but, they do not amount to certainty: this can only be acquired by the touch. In handling the knee of the patient, the surgeon feels a hard, prominent substance, which slips about under his fingers, and glides under the patella, or the liga- ment of this bone, and sometimes under the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg, from one side of the joint to the other. The extraneous body may make its appearance either at the in- side or the outside of the articulation; but, it most frequently presents itself at the former part, which is the broadest and most sloping, while the capsular ligament there is loosest. Desault met with one instance, in which the capsular ligament and soft parts were so loose, that the patient could turn the extraneous sub- stance round and round. In general, the complaint is not dangerous; but, as it is painful, and obstructs, or often pre- vents walking; and usually can be cured only by an operation, which has sometimes had fatal con- sequences; we cannot be too much upon our guard in delivering a prognosis. It is only in tiie knee, that the disease ever becomes so troublesome as to require*an opera- tion, or, indeed, any surgical treatment. If we except making an incision into the joint, for the purpose of extracting the cartilaginous tumors, we are not acquainted with any certain means of freeing a patient from the inconvenience of the complaint. To this plan, the danger, at- tendant on all wounds of so large an articulation as the knee, is a very serious objection. Middle- ton and Gooch endeavoured to conduct the ex- traneous body into a situation, where it produced no pain, and to retain it in that position a long time by bandages, under the idea, that the car- tilaginous substance would adhere to the coy- tiguous parts, and occasion no future trouble. Some will be inclined to think, that no positive conclusion ought to be drawn from the cases brought forward by these gentlemen, because TS. 729 they had no opportunity of seeing their patients again at the end of a reasonable length of lime, and we know, that loose cartilages in the joints sometimes disappear for half a year, and then make their appearance again. Yet, perhaps, the very circumstance of the patients not applying again, may justify the inference, that sufficient relief had been obtained. However, it should not be concealed, that this method was also tried in St. George’s Hospital without benefit, and that in one case, the pain was increased by it. (See Rcimarus clc Fungo Articulorurn, § 27, 54, (yc.) Mr. Hey, aware of the dangerous symptoms, which have occasionally resulted from the most simple wounds penetrating the knee-joint, was induced to try the efficacy of a laced knee-cap, and the eases, which he has adduced, clearly de- monstrate, that the benefit thus obtained, is not temporary, at least, as long as the patient con- tinues to wear the bandage. In one case, the method had been tried for ten years, with all the success, which the patient could desire. Boyer also made one patient use a knee-cap for a year; after which it was left off, the patient appearing cured. And, in a second instance, the same practitioner tried the plan, which put a stop to the pain, and enabled the patient to walk with ease; but, it was not known whether the method was properly continued, as the patient had not latterly been seen. (Boyer, Traite, des Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 444.) Contemplating the evidence upon this point, and the perilous symptoms, sometimes following wounds of the knee-joint, I am decidedly of opinion, that the effect of a knee-cap, or of a roller and compress, applied over the loose car- tilage, ought generally to be tried, before having recourse to excision. 1 say generally, because the conduct of the surgeon ought, in such cases, to be adapted to the condition, and inclination of the patient. If a man be deprived of his liveli- hood, by not being able to use his knee; if he cannot, or will not take the trouble of wearing a bandage; if he be urgently desirous of running the risk of the operation after things have been impartially explained to him ; if a bandage should not be productive of sufficient relief; and, lastly, if excessive pain, severe inflammation of the joint, a great deal of symptomatic fever, and lameness, should frequently be produced by the complaint, (See Brodie’s Pathological and Surg. Ohs. p. 299), I think it is the duty of a surgeon to operate. It is very certain, that success has generally attended the operation; but, small as the chance is of losing the limb, and even life, in the attempt to get rid of the disease, since the inconveniences of the complaint are, in most cases, very bearable, and are even capable of palliation by means of a bandage, endangering the .limb and life in any degree, must seem to many persons contrary to the dictates of pru- dence. At all events, we must agree with Boyer, that, as a laced knee-cap can do no harm, we ought always to make trial of it, and never per- form the operation except when pressure does not answer, and the return of frequent and violent pain makes the employment of the knife ne- cessary. (See Traite dcs Mai. Chir. T. 4, p. 445.) I am roudy to allow, with M. Brochier, that