G58 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. “ 1 was told by several ol the French surgeons (says a late visitor to Paris), that they did not rely at all on internal means for stopping the progress ot hospital gangrene, and that their ex- perience had proved them to he insufficient, if not wholly inefficacious. Dupuytren, in reply to the account I gave him of the practice anil opi- nions of English surgeons on this subject, as- sured me, that he had no confidence but in local applications, and that internal remedies alone, as iar as he had found, did almost nothing. The same remark has been made in a very recent publication on hospital gangrene, fliJpcch, Mem. sur la Complication dcs Plaics, 1815.) although it seems to be rather at va- riance with its being a constitutional and con- tagious disease, which the author has admitted.” (See Sketches of the Medical Schools of Paris, by J. Cross, p. 83.) Perhaps, there is not a single antiseptic appli- cation, which has not been tried as a dressing for wounds, or ulcers, affected with hospital gan- grene. All watery applications, and common poultices, and fomentations, are generally con- demned, as inefficacious, and even hurtful. Dussassoy was convinced by the observation of numerous cases, that the best application is powder of bark. He recommends the wound to be covered with several layers of this powder, which are then to be moistened with turpentine. When this composition dries, he asserts, that it forms a fragile sort of coat, at the sides of which, and through which, the discharge escapes. After twenty-four hours, the first coat is to be removed, and a fresh one applied. In general, according to this writer, four, or five, such dressings are sufficient in simple cases, where the disorder is confined to the skin and cellular substance. Healthy inflammation then occurs, the sloughs come away, and the wound puts on a healing appearance. In bad cases, Dussassoy some- times added one-fifth of powdered muriate of ammonia to the bark. When this treatment failed, the actual cautery was used. On the subject of bark, as a local application to hospital gangrene, I need only remark, that it is now entirely relinquished, either as possess- ing no efficacy, (Delpech) or even aggravating the symptoms. (Blackadder.) The milder forms of the disease appear some- times to have yielded to the application of the vegetable and diluted mineral acids; lime-juice; lemon-juic£; vinegar; and the diluted nitric, and muriatic acids. And, the same observa- tion may be made, with respect to solutions of the nitrates of silver and mercury. The two latter substances, and the oxygenated muriatic acid, and gas, were found by Dr. Hollo to be ca- pable of effecting a cure. Delpech, in particular, speaks of the benefit derived from the applica- tion of strong vinegar, after all the pulpy viscid matter has been carefully wiped away from the surface of the living flesh. The vinegar is then poured on the ulcer, which is to be covered with charpie wet with the same liquid. When the case is too far advanced for this treatment to answer, Delpech tries caustics, especially the nitrate of silver; and, if these fail, he has recourse to the actual’cautery, and, when the sloughs arc very thick, so as to hinder the cautery from acting to a sufficient depth, he prefers thrusting into the sloughs down to the living flesh angular pieces of caustic potash at small distances from each other! (Precis. Elan, dcs Mai. Chir. T. 1, y. 151.) Surely, this must be far more tor- turing, and less certain of success, than removing the sloughs, and applying the cautery. Though the actual cautery is generally ad- mitted to be one of the most powerful means of stopping the progress of hospital gangrene, the surgeons of this country entertain a strong aver- sion to the practice; and I confess, that my own dislike to it is such as would always lead me to prefer any other treatment, from which equal efficacy would result. At the same time, it must be granted, that if the actual cautery will more certainly arrest some forms of hospital gangrene, than any other known applications, the surgeon’s duty is to put out of the question his own prejudices against it, and consider only his patient’s welfare. 1 am far from thinking, how ever, that, while there are such powerful caustics! as the undiluted mineral acids, and a dressing set effectual as a solution of arsenic, it can often bii absolutely necessary to employ red-hot irons. The merit of having pointed out in rnoderr times the great efficacy of Fowler’s solution o arsenic, or the liquor arsenicalis, of the Londoi Pharmacopoeia, as an application to phagedsen; gangraenosa, belongs to Mr. Blackadder. Ii answer to the objection, that the external use o arsenic is not unattended with danger, he assure us, that he has heard but of one instance of hosl pitqj gangrene, in which any deleterious effect; were supposed to arise from the absorption the arsenic, and the patient in question was vert soon cured of his uneasy, and possibly merely nervous symptoms.” (P. 50.) “ The first thing to be attended to in ever ! case of disease (says Mr. Blackadder) is clean liness. which, if always of great importance, i, in this instance, indispensable. The surface - the body ought to be made, and kept perfect clean, by means of the tepid bath, or otherwiJ by a plentiful u^e of soap; and the linen, aij bed-clothes, should be frequently changed, pa| tieularly when soiled with matter from the sore In order to make the sore perfectly clean, a free it from the viscous discharge, without pr« during considerable bleeding, and pain, MS g Blackadder recommends two large tin hospifl sg teapots to be filled with a weak solution of tl subcarbonate of potass. One of these solutiof i is to be cold; the other tepid ; because soni $jj times one, and sometimes the other, is fou most agreeable to the patient's feelings, thou the warm is the most effectual in cleansing t; sore. The liquid is to be poured over the soj and received into a basin, which ought to be i^i mediately emptied into another vessel placed a distance from the patient. During this abluti the glutinous matter, which adheres to the si may be gently detached, by means of sn dossils of fine tow, or lint, but these (says J Blackadder) should never be used for two <1 ferent patients, rigid economy, on occusi such as this, being a very mistaken princq In these cases, the use of sponges, (he ju observes) ought to be entirely laid aside, as tt can seldom be used more than once, with safi When the sore has been thus cleaned, a pi fine dry lint is to be spread over its surface,