AMPUTATION. 63 over the face of the stump, and sewing it by four or five stitches, &c. After this Yonge pro- ceeds with a methodical enumeration of the ad- vantages of this mode of operating over all others then in use, viz. that it is more spetdy—the cure not occupying a fourth of the usual time—no sup- puration—no exfoliation—less danger of hemorr- hage—not liable to break open again from slight injury—and lastly, much better adapted to the pressure from an artificial leg, &c. “ The foregoing abstract will shew, (says Mr. Carwardine) how far Mr. O’Halloran’s method, presently to be described, in which he dresses the ilap and the stump as distinct surfaces, can be re- garded as a revival of Lowdham’s operation, or whe- ther it has been superseded or improved upon by the mechanical ingenuity of the Dutch and French surgeons:—the apparatus of M. de la Faye and Verduin, appear to have been merely clumsy and unscientific contrivances for the suppression of hemorrhage. Garengeot’s operation had also for its object to supersede the use of the ligature, which, however, after twelve years practice, he was obliged to give up, and tie t'ne vessel before he laid down the flap: (the particulars of all these methods the reader will presently meet with.) Opinions therefore founded upon the practice of these gentlemen, I conceive cannot fairly be admitted as evidence against the flap operation of Lowdham, which nevertheless ap- pears sinking in the estimation of the best mo- dern surgeons: perhaps no material advantage is gained by it over the common mode of operating in the Lwer extremities, as now practised—but even here, cases may occur where we are glad to re- sort to it: a few years since, I attended a patient in consultation with a friend at Dunmow, in Es- sex, where we thought it necessary to remove a man’s leg for a caries of the tibia. An ulceration in front extended so high, that no integument could be saved, and the limb would have been removed above the knee, if I had not suggested the propriety of making a flap from the calf of the leg. The tibia was obliged to be sawn as high as possible, but the flap, was left sufficiently long to cover the surface, and that most important ob- ject, the bend of the knee, was preserved to bear thepressureofa woodenleg. In the removal of the arm attheshoulder joint, doubtless the advantages of making a flap from the deltoid, &c. are suf- ficiently established ; but, in the mode of dressing, I presume, that no English surgeon will admit, that the practice of M. Larrey (perhaps the most eminent surgeon that has been formed by the wars of Bonaparte, and whose practice will be here- after noticed) can supersede the method of Yonge (or Lowdham) who wrote ldO years before him ! I,arrey introduces charpie beneath the flap to prevent union by the first intention ! Lowdham’s object is simply to lay the flap over the wound to prevent exfoliation, and to heal the surface uper symphisin” in three weeks.” To the correct- ness of these sentiments of Mr. Carwardine, I believe, that every impartial surgeon will bear witness; and it merely remains for me to thank him for his obliging communication, and say, that I have recently looked over the copy of the Currus 1 riumphalis e Terebintho, preserved in ‘he valuable library of the Medical and Chi- rurgical Society, and find, that what he has stated •8 fully confirmed by the contents, of that an- cient work. At the same time, I retain the beliel, that the example set by Mr. Alanson, with respect to the proper method of dressing stumps, and obtaining a speedy union of the wound, is entitled to the praise of posterity, because his ad- vice wras so well enforced that it soon produced a revolution in practice, while the correct sugges- tions of Lowdham and Yonge, like the hint in Celsus, of the double incision, had sunk into ob- livion, or were only knovm to a few admirers of surgical antiquities. As Sprengel remarks, Purmann, Dion's, (Cnurs d’ Oper. de C‘dr. p. 611.) De la Vau- guyon, (Traitf- Compl. des Oper. de Clur. p. 531,) and most other surgeons of the seventeenth cen- tury, continued the method of first drawing up the integuments, and then appljdng a band round the member. Dionis also took particular pains to recommend the ligature of the vessels, and expresses a strong aversion to the actual cautery. Neither did he approve of amputation at the knee joint, because he thought that the patella, which must be left behind, would impede the healing of the stump, and he was apprehensive of the articular surface of the femur becoming diseased. De la Vauguyon relied upon the styptic properties of vitriol, and he praised drawl- ing back the muscles by means of the kind of bag invented by Fabricius Hildanus. Taking off the limbs at the joints was first commended again in modern times by J. Mun- nicks, who was more partial to styptics, than the ligature; and for dressing the wound employed compresses and sticking plaster. (C/urorgia, p. 101.) Mauquest de la Mothe adopted the plan of operating recommended by Dionis ; he was also one of the first who made common use of the tourniquet in amputations, afterwards drawing out the vessels with the forceps and tying them. (Traite Cornpl.de Chir. Vol. 3, p. 171.) Lowd- ham’s original suggestion of amputating with a flap has been briefly noticed. About eighteen years after Yonge’s publication, Peter Verduin, an eminent surgeon at Amsterdam, submitted to the judgment of the profession a new kind of flap amputation, which he had put in practice. (See Dip. Epistolica dc Nova Artuum decurtaudo- rumratinne, 8vn. Ams't. 1696.) The following are the chief particulars of Verduin’s flap operation. Two compresses were applied, one under the ham, and the other on the course of the large vessels. The thigh was wrapped in a fine linen cloth, which was sustained by some turns of a roller. This apparatus was covered with a piece of leather, six inches broad, furnished with three straps with buckles, to secure it round the part. The tourniquet was placed in the usual manner. The part, above the place intended to be ampu- tated, was surrounded with a leather strap. The point of a crooked knife, which was made to pass as near to the back part of the bones as possible, was thrust in on one side of the leg, and made to come out on the other. The knife was then car- ried down nearly to the tendo achillis, and thus it separated almost the whole calf of the leg. The flap being formed, the operation was finished in the ordinary manner. The wound was then washed with a wet sponge, in order to clear it from the fragments of sawn bone. I he leather strap, which served to secure the flesh, was next