AMAUROSIS. 48 the place of their decussation. A case of amau- rosis produced by a spicula of bone, injuring the opposite side of the brain, is related by Anderson. (See Trans, of the Society of Edinh. Vol. 2.) Sometimes the ethmoid bone has been found carious, (BalLonius, Puradf matu, No. 7); some- times other parts of the cranium. (Mursiuna, Beohacht 1, No. 6'; Schmucher, Vermischte Sehrifl. 2, p. 12.) Nor is it unfrequent to find the medullary substance of the brain itself as soft as pap, while the cortical substance is full of blood-vessels and unusually firm, the convolutions being hardly distinguishable. It further seems as if only particular individuals were liable to these two forms of amaurosis; for hitherto Be: r has not met with these morbid changes of the optic nerves and their coverings, except in ema- ciated, badly nourished amaurotic patients, in whom some clear signs of scrophula had appeared during youth, especially in the glands of the neck ; while the above described changes in the bones of the skull and in the brain itself’. Beer lias seen only in such amaurotic patients as evi- dently had suffered in their youth from rachitis throughout their whole osseous system, and who at a later period had had syphilis, or, in their best days, been decidedly gouty. In almost all these cases, a careful enquiry into their history tended to prove, that the affection of the head and eyes had been preceded by a sudden expo- sure of the head to cold, whence arose rheuma- tism. particularly affecting the aponeurosis under the scalp, though at first it was apparently incon- siderable. What degree of accuracy may belong to the foregoing observations. I cannot pretend to say, though it is impossible for me not to suspect, that they are less valuable and correct, than some other remarks made by tiiis experienced writer. Many of the causes of amaurosis are of such a nature, as to render the disease totally incura- ble. Of this description is fungus hrematodes, in which the structure of the retina and optic nerve is changed in a remarkable manner, the whole cavity of the eye-ball becoming filled with a sub- stance resembling medullary matter, and the optic nerve changed in its form, colour, and structure. (See Wardrop’s Essoys on the Morbid Anatomy of the Human Eye, Vol. ‘2, p. 156‘, 8vo. Lund. 1818.) On the authority of Ecker, one case is upon record, where'the cause of amaurosis depended upon an aneurism of the central artery of the retina. (Pine!, Nosogruplt ie Philos. Vol. ‘2, p. 122.) In another instance, the macula lutea, which is naturally a yellow spot near the centre of the retina, was found black. (Mrtn. dc tu Saddle Med. d’Emulation, an 1798.) Bonetus. in his Scpvlchrelum Analomicum, lih. 1. sect. 18. describes various cases which were quite incurable: afterdeath, the blindness in one instance was found to be occasioned by an encysted tumor, weighing fourteen drams, situated in the sub- stance of the cerebrum, and pressing on the optic nerves near their origin. In a second, the blind- ness was produced by a cyst, containing water, and lodged on the optic nerves, where they unite. In a third, it arose from a caries of the os frontis, and a consequent alteration in the figure of the optic foramina. In a fouith, the cause of the disease was, a malformation of the optic nerves themselves. In some of the instances, in which no apparent alteration can be discovered in the optic nerve, Mr. Ware conjectures, whether a dilatation of the anterior portion of the circulus arteriosus may not he the cause of the affection. The cir- cuits arteriosus is an arterial circle, surrounding the sella turcica, formed by the carotid arteries on each side, branches passing from them to meet each other before, and other branches pass- ing backwards, to meet branches from the ba- silary artery behind. The anterior part of the circulus arteriosus lies directly over, crosses, and is in contact, with the optic nerves, and just in the same way as the anterior branches lie over the optic nerves, the posterior ones lie over the nervi motores oculorum. Hence Mr. Ware attempts to refer the amaurosis itself, and the paralytic affection of the eye-lids, and muscles of the eye, sometimes attendant on the com- plaint, to a dilatation of the anterior and pos- terior branches of the circulus arteriosus. Dr. Baillie has noticed, in his Morbid Anatom)-, the frequently diseased state of the trunk, or the small branches of the carotid arteries at the side of the sella turcica, and he says the same sort of diseased structure is also found in the basilary artery and its branches. (See Ware’s Chir. OLs. on the Eye.) When the diagnosis of these cases is perfectly clear, the prognosis can admit of no doubt; for, in the present state of medical science, what intel- ligent surgeon can here forbode an)- thing else, than the gradual formation of complete blindness (if that be not already produced) and not mere- ly death, but one of a miserable description. Nay, says Beer, even where some specific con- stitutional disease is manifestly concerned in the production of the amaurosis, like syphilis or gout, none but a fool would hold out any hope of benefit to the patient, because, in general, when the practitioner is sent for, not only the con- stitutional complaints have become too deeply rooted and inveterate, but the system has been already too much reduced by anxiety, long suf- fering, and manifold courses of medicine, for any prospect of a cure of the general disorder lo be entertained, much less that of the existing blind- ness. It is only when this dreadful disease of the head and eyes assuredly proceeds from some known specific disorder that any mode of treat- ment can be adopted, which is founded on prin- ciple. As far as Beer’s experience goes, how- ever, the treatment always fqils; an event, which, in supposed syphilitic and gouty cases, where the strongest mercurials, antimonials, and other altera- tives are ifseless, he ascribes, to the debilitated state of the constitution; but, which he might with more propriety impute both to our total ignorance of any connexion between the blind- ness and syphilis, or gout, and to our having no medicine which has the slightest power to check or remove the morbid changes in the optic nerve and its coverings, or in the cranium or brain. Neither, says Beer, can any good be done by scorbutic medicines, where the amau- rotic patient has betrayed symptoms of scurvy. The treatment then must be more or less em- pirical* which is always the most subject to failure, and the least deserving of confidence, especially