267 PREPARATION OF MEALS weather). If ice is lacking, use other cooling devices. Serve in chilled dishes. Garnishing the dish. — All food must be neatly placed in the dish, and arranged or piled with some sort of symmetry, and this is the most that some people have time to do. Many foods may be served in the utensil or dish in which they are cooked, and in the case of a baking dish, if its appearance is not neat, a napkin can be folded about it. The simplest form of garnish is browning on the top, which makes many dishes attractive (mashed potato). Make the garnishing simple, and have it eatable when possible. Slices of hard boiled eggs on spinach, chopped parsley and butter on boiled or mashed potato, parsley and slices of lemon, with meat and fish. Vegetable borders are attractive and save labor in dish washing. Arrange the meat in the center of the platter, and pile mashed po- tato, or boiled rice or peas or beans, or a mixture of hot vegetables around the edge. This saves time in table service, too. The garnishing of salads, desserts, and cakes is treated in pre- vious chapters. Table equipment and service. — This is a place where beauty is a large element, and most people understand the charm of a daintily laid table, as the family gathers for a meal. But many factors must be taken into account, for it is an easy matter to pass from the simple and beautiful to an extravagant display, to spend more on the dining-room equipment than the income warrants, and to waste much energy in unnecessary work. Our great need here is to learn to see beauty in simplicity. We must remember, too, that many people in our country live in crowded quarters, and have no time for anything but the simplest kind of table service.1 The table should be firm, large enough to accommodate the family comfortably, and it should permit of extension-when occasion de- mands a larger board. The top should have an oil finish that will not easily mar and that can be washed off. Have a thick cloth or pad to protect it — the “silence cloth.” 1 For Furnishing the Dining Room, see “Shelter and Clothing,” p. 88.