116 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT removed after cooking. The outer covering must be removed in the case of peas, shell beans, and sweet corn. Pull or cut strings from string beans with great care. Discard all poor portions. Remove and throw away the inner pulp and seeds of old squashes and pumpkins. The whole of a tender summer squash is eatable. When boiling salted water is used, allow one tablespoonful of salt to four quarts of water. Steamed and stewed vegetables are salted and dressed with butter or butter substitute before serving. Butter is a better dressing for vegetables than white sauce. Where cream is available, nothing is so delicious. Use white sauce very spar- ingly with some escalloped vegetable for variety. Making a sauce adds to the labor of preparation, and the sauce hides the delicious flavor of a well-cooked vegetable. Some vegetables are mashed before serving; potatoes, turnip, squash, either boiled or baked. Time of cooking. —- The following table is a guide, but one must learn from practice, for the time depends upon the quality of the vegetable, whether tender or tough, and upon the size whether large or small. Test by gently inserting a fork. Allow more time for cooking in a steamer, than for stewing or boiling. It requires more time to bake a potato than to boil one of the same size. Why? Time-table (For stewing and boiling unless stated otherwise.) Fifteen minutes. —- Tender cabbage and sweet corn. These are usually cooked too long. Thirty minutes. — Asparagus ; peas ; potatoes of medium size ; summer squash; tomatoes. Forty-jive minutes. — Young beets and carrots; onions; young parsnips ; medium potatoes baked, sweet potatoes boiled. One hour. — String and shelled beans ; cauliflower ; oyster plant; winter squash, steamed or baked; young turnips. Two hours. — Old carrots, beets, and turnips. Six to eight hours (or more). — Dried beans, lentils, and peas, baked in the oven, with water added. The potato, a starchy vegetable. — Make it your pride to serve a plain potato, mealy and inviting. Potatoes are “ new,” fully ripe, and old. The new potato is in market in July and August, and may be recognized by its very thin skin. The later potatoes have a thicker skin, the color still being fresh. In the spring after