76 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT America, having been introduced to Europe by early travel- ers in these lands. The introduction of these beverages is an interesting bit of his- tory. The Spaniards found cocoa in tropical America, and carried it back to Spain, and it was not used in England until 1657. It was sold in Danvers, Massachusetts, in 1771, the raw material having been brought by Gloucester fishermen from the West Indies. Coffee is said to have originated in Abyssinia, reaching Europe by way of Arabia, and being sold in England in 1650. Coffee-houses were licensed in America in 1715. A Chinese tradition places the discovery of the use of tea at 2700 b.c. It was first used in England in 1657, and was imported into America in 1711. An amusing story is told of the first tea party in a town of-western Connecticut, where the tea was boiled violently in a large iron kettle and served on a platter with the leaves, as a form of soup, the leaves themselves being eaten. Cocoa and chocolate. — Cocoa and chocolate are manu- factured from the seed of a tree, Theobroma cacao, grown in tropical America. The seeds, when removed from the con- taining pod, are fermented to improve the flavor, dried, cleaned, roasted, and finally ground. The outer husk is loosened in the roasting, and is then removed, and sold as “ cocoa shells.” It is the basis of a cheap beverage with an agreeable flavor. The first crushing of the seeds gives cocoa “ nibs,” and these are further ground in a mill, and finally molded into the cake of plain chocolate. The addition of sugar, Vanilla, cinnamon, and sometimes other spices gives a variety of sweet chocolates. Powdered cocoa is prepared by the removal of the fat, which is a valuable product in itself, sugar and flavorings are added and some- times a starch. The Dutch manufacturers use alkalies for removing the crude fiber and improving the color, and the consequent loss of flavor is balanced by the use of other flavoring matter. The adulterations of cocoa are largely