358 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT a sponge and tepid water, and rubbing until dry with a wet chamois wrung out of cold water. This method was learned from a piano polisher, and it works excellently. A dry chamois streaks the surface. The wood of furniture is kept clean by rubbing with a soft dry cloth, but once in a while needs cleaning with crude oil or the mix- ture of oil, turpentine, and vinegar. Bureau drawers need watch- ing for finger marks. Glass is best cleaned by rubbing on a mixture of whiting and water. Leave it to dry and rub off with a dry cloth. A fine gritty soap comes for this purpose. Ammonia and water and a soft cloth work well, the success depending upon the final polishing. Very soft tissue paper is satisfactory for polishing. Marble, porcelain, and enamel need little more than white soap suds, rinsed off and the surface dried. If spotted, use the finest kind of metal soap. Metals. — Fine silver and plated ware should be kept polished by the daily careful washing, rinsing in hot water. Silver will spot and tarnish. Use whiting and alcohol, let it dry on, and rub off with a clean cloth or chamois. The silver powders sold at the silversmith’s are very good, but the patent powders and liquids should not be used, as they remove too much of the silver. Brass and copper are polished with rotten stone and oil. If the metal is spotted, use oxalic acid solution with the rotten stone. After rubbing well, the metal should be washed off in hot soap suds and finished with a dry cloth. Nickel plate keeps bright if kept clean by daily dry rubbing. Care of rooms. — The bedroom. — The daily care includes airing the room and its closets, airing and making the bed, dusting, removing lint and threads from the floor, and re- moving slops and bringing fresh water if bathing apparatus is in the room. To make the bed. — The amount of airing of the bedclothes depends somewhat upon the weather; bed linen absorbs too much damp if placed by the window on a rainy or foggy day. Pull back the bedclothes and hang them over a chair set front to the foot of