68 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT Vegetables may be reheated, or used for flavoring soups and stews, or used cold in salads. Desserts and fruits may be used for a “ pick up ” luncheon. Salads do not keep their freshness and flavor well, and should be used very soon. Milk and cream should be returned to proper receptacles in the refrigerator as soon as possible. Disposal of waste food. — This is the final test of good housekeeping, and many otherwise good housekeepers fail just here. Even at its best the garbage pail is not altogether a pleasing object, and at its worst it is unspeakable. It must not be ignored. Have a system adapted to your own kitchen, and the municipal method of disposal, if there is such. Use a covered pail of enamel ware, rather than one of galvanized iron. The surface of the enamel is smooth, and therefore easier to wash, and there is no excuse for putting off the cleansing of the pail. Wash, rinse, and dry the pail and the cover immediately after it is emptied. Do not put a piece of paper in the bottom of the pail. This request is made by the department in New York City, and it is always better not to mix food waste and paper waste. If you live in an apartment house, your name should be painted on the pail. Never put liquid into the garbage pail with solid refuse. Strain out whatever liquid may be left in coffee or tea, and pour it into the sink drain. If there is a greasy liquid to throw away, add to it a teaspoonful or more of washing powder, and let it stand a time. If you have used enough of the powder, you will find that you have a soapy liquid to pour down the sink. Coffee, tea, cocoa, or lemonade left in cups should be diluted and poured down the sink and never into the garbage pail. Empty garbage at evening when possible, to prevent the long standing through the night. Keep the pail closely covered both day and night, to keep out flies, and water bugs, if they are about. Allow the pail to stand outside the kitchen unless the fire escape is the only accessible out-of-doors. Remember that the fire escape is not a back porch, and that you would be fined for using it as such if the inspectors were efficient.