373 LAUNDERING AND DRY CLEANSING be used in apartment houses. The steam drier has a rack on which clothes are hung, and economizes space and time. Irons. — The hand iron is heated in several different ways. The old-fashioned non heated on the stove, and the electric iron are the most satisfactory. In buying hand irons, select those of good weight, for this makes the work easier. Three or four will suffice for ordinary work, and they should weigh from 4 or 5 to 7 pounds. A small pointed iron is necessary for fine work, and for sleeves there is a special, narrow iron. The irons must be kept clean, and per- fectly dry when not in use. Wax tied in a cloth is a good cleaner, and should be at hand during the ironing process. A stand is nec- essary on which the iron may rest, and paper or cloth on which to rub the iron when it comes from the stove. Electric irons are proving very satisfactory, and although the first cost is high, they should be used wherever possible. The mangle. — Small mangles, used either cold or heated, are now made for family use, and are great labor savers in flat work. Towels and small flat pieces may even be put through the wringer, while they are still damp, with very good effect. The ironing board. — This should be firm, well padded, and covered with clean cloth. The cover may be made to tie on so that it can be easily changed. Ironing boards should be placed in a good light. Boards may be attached to the wall, and these have firm support. In a small room, the board can be made to turn up. Other apparatus. — A hamper or bag for soiled clothes, a basket for clean, pail and dipper, a clothes stick, a large pan, a small and a large saucepan, a teakettle for boiling water, a knife, wooden spoon, common spoons and measures, a sprinkler or brush for sprinkling clothes, a clothesliorse, clothes hangers for waists and dresses. The soiled clothes bag should be washed weekly, and the hamper should have a removable fining also for weekly washing. Monday and Tuesday are the traditional days for washing and ironing, but the woman who does her own work, or per- haps has a helper, or one maid, may find it a good plan to do no more on Monday than the mending, removing of stains, and sorting. This gives time to make the house orderly, after Sunday, and to prepare food, some of which may last