276 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT plate. After all the dishes in a course are passed in this way, watch to see if second helps are needed. Remove the soiled plates at the left, and place the clean at the left, removing with the left hand and placing with the right. Fill glasses at the right, and remove silver at the right before dessert when there are pieces left unused. Brush crumbs with a soft, folded napkin upon a plate, at the left, just before dessert when everything is taken from the table but the center decoration, the candies, and the glass of water. With this plan the guest helps himself each time, even the after dinner coffee being passed on a tray with cream and sugar, and he can take as little as he pleases, or decline. Some hostesses have some of the courses arranged on individual plates and placed, and these may be placed either from the left or right. But the other method is simple and satisfactory. The finger bowls may be set on plates of dessert size with a doily underneath. If a spoon or fork is needed with the dessert, one or both may be placed on the plate also, one on each side, if both are used. The bowls should be less than half full of water and the water should be a comfortable temperature, neither cold nor notice- ably warm. Set the plates arranged in this way before each guest. The guest himself will remove the bowl and doily and silver before the dessert is passed. In large banquets the food must be placed on the individual plate. The question is sometimes asked, “ Who shall be served first? ” It is a good plan to change this from course to course, begin- ning the first time with the guest of honor. It is not a matter of great importance, provided no one has to wait long. Two waitresses make the service quicker. The guests of honor sit at the right of the host and hostess. The number of courses. — Two or three courses are enough for everyday comfort and health. In formal serving, it is good taste not to have too many. A first course of grapefruit or perhaps oyster cocktail, a soup, a fish course, or some light substitute for it, — the main course with meat, a salad, dessert, coffee — make a quite sufficient meal. The “ entree ” is a light dish, say sweetbreads in cases, after the meat course, but it is quite unnecessary. Many people are becoming very weary of the long-drawn-out dinners and banquets, which are certainly far from hygienic.