EGGS, MILK, AND CHEESE 143 alone is given in cases of severe illness, mixed with a small amount of water, and fruit juice if the physician permits the latter. This is sometimes the only food that can be retained by an invalid. Principles of egg cookery. — Protein in the form of an egg-albumin is the foodstuff to consider in the cooking of eggs. Heat produces in the egg a change in color and in texture or firmness, the firmness or hardness depending upon the degree of heat and the length of time given to the cooking. Coagulation is the term used for this change in the egg-albumin. 1. The white of egg begins to coagulate and to show an opaque white at about 180° F. 2. A temperature somewhat below the boiling point of water for about ten minutes will give the white a jellylike, tender con- sistency, and slightly cook the yolk. Continued for an hour, the white becomes solid and adheres to the shell. 3. The boiling point of water gives a firmer consistency than a temperature below this point. The white is free from the shell. 4. A high temperature, that of a hot pan, will produce a leathery consistency if long continued. A. An experiment with the egg. Apparatus and materials.—A ring stand, wire net, Bunsen burner, glass beaker, test tube, chemical thermometer, white of egg. Method. — Put the beaker two thirds full of water on the wire net over the flame. Put enough white of egg into the test tube to cover the bulb of the thermometer when this is put into the tube. Clamp the test tube so that it rests in the water in the beaker. The surface of the water should stand above the top of the white of egg. Clamp the thermometer so that it is held in the white of egg in the test tube. The white should be stirred with a fork before it is put into the test tube, and only a small quantity used. Note : 1. The temperature when the first visible change occurs. 2. The temperature when the whole mass becomes of a jell^like consistency. 3. The temperature when the water reaches the boiling point. Remove ; note the consistency. 3. Jellied or coddled eggs. — See that the shells are whole and clean. If the eggs are just taken from the refrigerator, lay them in