206 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT let rise again. Before baking brush over with well beaten egg and cover with following mixture. Melt 3 tablespoonfuls butter, add \ cup sugar and 1 teaspoonful cinnamon. When sugar is partially melted, add 3 tablespoonfuls flour and remove from fire. 7. Toast. — Directions for making toast will be found in Chapter IV. To serve toast. — Toast should be served as soon as it is made, if possible, and if not must be kept hot. Fold it in a napkin. Toast may also be buttered, piled neatly on a plate, and kept hot in the oven until it is time for serving. For milk toast the bread is cut somewhat thicker than for buttered toast. The milk isprepared by thickening, No. 1 under White Sauce. Dip each slice of toast in the thickened milk and then put the slices in a dish for serving and pour the thick- ened milk over. To moisten toast that is too dry, or when moist toast is wanted to serve under some other food, place it in a steamer or colander over boiling water a few minutes be- Laboratory management. —For individual work or for work in groups of two, the use of j cup of liquid will be found to make as small an amount of dough as it is desirable to handle. In making the -white bread two por- tions may be baked in one tin, brushing with butter where the two por- tions touch each other, so that the loaves will separate when baked. Where it is necessary to hurry the process not less than \ yeast cake should be used with this quantity. It is impossible in an ordinary school period to complete the entire pro- cess. A number of solutions will occur to the teacher. One of these is to arrange the lessons as follows: Lesson I. Yeast experiments, summary, bread mixed in groups and set to rise, demonstration by teacher of kneading, using dough previously prepared. Lesson II. Quantity of dough set to rise by volunteer pupils before class. Dough kneaded, shaped and set to rise by pupils. Review of yeast experiments. Baking of bread. Lesson III. Parker House rolls or sweet breads mixed and set to rise, completed by volunteers after class. In recipes where three risings are called for one may be omitted, if neces- sary.