EGGS, MILK, AND CHEESE 157 milk becomes hot, the curd will be tough. Place a piece of cheesecloth over a bowl, pour in the curds and whey, and lift the cloth carefully, allowing the whey to run through. Squeeze out the remaining whey. Add the seasoning and other ingre- dients to the curd, shape in balls, and chill before serving. It is delicious served with lettuce and dressing as a salad, or with gingerbread for dessert at luncheon or supper. Principles of cooking cheese. — The fat in the cheese is melted by heat. The protein is toughened by a high temperature, there- fore a low temperature process should be used. 3. Cheese cooked with other food materials. — A creamy cheese should be selected for cooking. Cheese may be grated and sprinkled on the top of potato on the half shell, or any other mashed potato ; or it may be sliced and placed with each layer in escalloped potato. Its use is common with macaroni; and a dish of macaroni with milk and cheese is a good meat substitute, and may be used as the main dish of a luncheon or simple dinner. Those to whom cheese is agreeable will find many places for its use. Its flavor harmonizes with celery and with tomato. The Italians serve grated Parmesan cheese with soup, and with spaghetti that has a tomato sauce. 4. Cheese crackers. — Select crackers of a firm quality that will not crumble or flake easily, and of a small size. Spread very thinly with soft butter, put the crackers in a pan, and sprinkle grated cheese upon each one. Set the pan in a mod- erate oven until the cheese is melted. A sprinkling of paprika may be used. Serve with lettuce, celery, or other green salad. EXERCISES 1. Compare the composition of eggs, milk, and cheese. 2. How may an egg which has been kept too long in cold storage be detected ? 3. What is the effect of the boiling temperature of water upon an egg? 4. Compare a hard- and a soft-cooked egg for digestibility. 5. What are the dangers from unclean milk? 6. How may the milk supply be safeguarded ? 7. Why is cheese a meat substitute ? 8. What caution should we exercise in using it? 9. What precaution must we take in cooking cheese? 1