82 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT Utensils. — A grater, or sharp knife, a saucepan, mixing spoon, and beater. A French chocolate maker claims that any metal utensil affects the flavor of the chocolate, and always uses an earthen pot and wooden spoon and heater. An earthenware choco- late pot for this purpose is on the market. Ingredients. — Chocolate, sugar, milk, or milk and water. Proportions. — The amount of chocolate may be varied, de- pending upon the richness desired. Three or 4 ounce squares to 1 quart liquid, 4 teaspoonfuls sugar to 1 quart. The liquid is better half milk and half water, rather than milk only. Method l.1 The cold method. Put the liquid and sugar into the saucepan. Break or cut the chocolate into small pieces, add to the liquid, and heat the liquid slowly, stirring occasionally but not constantly. When the liquid is hot, just before it reaches the boiling point, beat vigorously with a wooden spoon, or beater. The Dover beater is convenient. This beating makes a velvety smooth and a foamy mixture. Method 2.1 The hot method. Heat the liquid with the sugar. Grate the chocolate or shave it with a knife. Protect the chocolate from the warmth of the fingers by a piece of paper. The process is less “ sticky ” if the chocolate and grater are chilled in the refrigerator. Just as the liquid is reaching the boiling point, pour in the grated chocolate, and beat vigorously.1 Beaten chocolate does not need any additional cream when served. Beaten whipped cream is attractive on the top of each cup. But remember that chocolate is already rich in fat, and that additional fat may be indigestible. Such a cup of choco- late taken for luncheon with a roll is sufficient for the meal, and is certainly too rich in fat for serving at an afternoon tea. 5. Coffee. Principle. — To extract the flavoring oils at the boiling point of water, and to avoid the extraction of the tannin. The 1 Both these methods were taught by French cooks connected with well known chocolate firms, and both give good results.