BOSTON DALLAS SAN FRANCISCO CHICAGO ATLANTA Botany for Secondary Schools By L. H. BAILEY Of Cornell University Cloth, i2ino, illustrated, 460 pages. List price, p.25 It is not essential nor desirable that everybody should become a botanist, but it is inevitable that people shall be interested in the more human side of plant and animal life. We are interested in the evident things of natural history, and the greater our interest in such things, the wider is our horizon and the deeper our hold on life. The secondary school could not teach botanical science if it would ; lack of time and the immaturity of the pupils forbid it. But it can encourage a love of nature and an interest in plant study; indeed, it can originate these, and it does. Professor Bailey’s Botany has been known to do it. In the revision of this book that has just been made, the effective simplicity of the nature teacher and the genuine sympathy of the nature lover are as successfully blended as they were in the former book. Bailey’s Botany for Secondary Schools recognizes four or five general life principles: that no two natural things are alike; that each individual has to make and main- tain its place through struggle with its fellows; that “ as the twig is bent the tree inclines ’’; that “ like produces like,” and so on. From these simple laws and others like them Professor Bailey proceeds to unfold a wonderful story of plant individuals that have improved upon their race characteristics, of plant communities that have adopted ’ manners from their neighbors, of features and characteristics that have been lost by plants because of changed conditions of life or surroundings. The story vibrates with interest. Tlie book is, moreover, perfectly organized along the logical lines ot approach to a scientific subject. Four general divisions of material insure its pedagogical success: Part I. — The Plant Itself; Part II. — The Plant in Its Relation to Environment and to Man ; PART III.— Histology, or the Minute Structure of Plants; Part IV. — The Kinds of Plants, including a Flora of 130 pages. THE MACMILLAN COMPANY Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York