122 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT oven or under the gas. If you can, prepare this as a surprise at home, and ask the family to “ guess ” what it is. If the cabbage is a good one, some of the leaves turn a very pretty green with this method of boiling. 9. Baked beans. — A nitrogenous vegetable and a meat substi- tute. A, dish known in old days in New England, baked to perfection in the old brick oven. Baked beans seem diffi- cult of digestion for some people. The mustard is supposed to be helpful, and adds something to the flavor. If the mo- lasses is omitted, or but a small amount used, and if butter takes the place of pork or suet, the beans seem more digestible. In different parts of New England the dish is varied. Some people prefer rather dry baked beans, others wish them moist and very sweet. Utensils. — A kettle. A covered bean pot. Ingredients. — 1 quart of white beans. 1 teaspoonful of soda. 1 lb. salt pork or more, or 4 tablespponfuls of beef fat or butter sub- stitute. Molasses, from two tablespoonfuls to 5 cup, or none. 1 teaspoonful of mustard. Method.—Wash, and soak the beans in cold water over night. Pour off any water that remains. Put the beans into the kettle, cover with cold water, add the soda, and cook gently until the beans are slightly softened. The soda aids the soften- ing. Pour off the water again, and put the beans into the pot. Mix the molasses and mustard with a pint of water, and pom1 this over the beans, adding more water if the beans are not covered. Place the pork or other fat upon the beans, and cover the pot. If fat other than pork is used, salt must be added to the beans. The beans should bake slowly, for from 6 to 8 hours, and even longer in a very slow oven. A stove of the type shown in Fig. 17 is good for this purpose. They Laboratory management. — The last experiment is the only one not easily performed in the school kitchen. The process can begin perhaps on one day, and be finished the next. If there is some apparatus that cooks at a low temperature, the practical difficulties may be overcome.