66 FOODS AND HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT Heat through an intervening medium. Water, the medium. Boiling. Cooking in boiling water, temperature, 212° F or 100° C. Simmering, slewing, or “ coddling." — Cooking in water below the boiling temperature, 180° F. up to 210° F. Steaming. — Cooking in a receptacle into which steam pene- trates, 212° F. — or in a closed receptacle surrounded by steam or boiling water as in a double boiler, or a “ steamer,” temperature from 200° F. to 210° F. Fat, the medium. Deep fat frying, temperature 350°-400° F. Heated surfaces, the medium. Pan broiling — Cooking of chops or steaks in a heated pan, with- out additional fat. Saute. — To cook in a heated pan with a small amount of fat, enough merely to prevent the food from sticking to the pan and to hasten the brdwning process. “ Baking ” cakes on a griddle is a modification of this method. Baking. — Cooking in a heated oven, temperature from 300° F. to 450° F., or higher for rapid browning. Meat and poultry cooked in an oven are baked and not roasted, although we use the word “ roast ” for this method. Braising. — Cooking meat in a heated oven in a closed vessel, with a supply of water to keep down the temperature. This might be called an “ oven stew.” These methods are sometimes combined in one process. In a brown stew, the meat is first cooked in a pan with a little fat to brown it, and to sear the outside for retaining the juices, before the actual stewing begins. A “ pot-roast,” is an old-fashioned method of cooking a solid piece of meat with a little water in a pot on top of the stove. The water simmers out, and the meat is browned. What methods does this process unite ? The American Indians in their Squantum, or Clam Bake, heated a layer of stones by means of a fire on top, removing the ashes when the fire died down. A layer of wet seaweed was placed on the stones, and upon this clams, fish, and corn were laid, and covered with another layer of seaweed. We have inherited this method from the Indians, and use it at the shore. What is the cooking process?