57 FOOD PREPARATION Placing the slices firmly in a toaster, or on a fork, or evenly on a rack when toasting by gas. Keeping the toast at a distance from the source of heat that in- sures a steady but not too rapid change. Turning the toaster or the shoes to cook each surface in turn and thus to make the process slower. Stopping the process before carbon is formed and the toast “ burned.” (A good technique does not include scraping the toast!) The (esthetic element in toast-making might be a pretty shape of the slices, say triangular pieces, and a dainty arrangement. In this case and in others it is true that the result of a good technique is aesthetic, in that correct manipulation while securing the desired chemical change also develops the pleasing golden brown that makes the toast so attractive. The care of food materials. — When food materials are delivered, have receptacles ready for each kind of food. (See kitchen furnishing.) Attend first to perishable foods. Wash and dry milk and cream bottles before putting them in the refrigerator. Treat eggs in the same way. This is also a good plan with lemons and other skin fruit, unless the quantity is too large, in which case they should not be put into the refrigerator. Remove wrappings from meat, poultry, and fish; wipe them with a soft cloth, dipped in salt and water, dry them, and place them in the ice box. Wash the cloth thoroughly and dry it. Fish should be covered that its odor may not affect other food. Vegetables like lettuce, celery, and spinach should be washed and picked over immediately, and the poor portions thrown away. All semi-perishable foods should be put in a cool, dry place, and the non-perishables in their separate receptacles. (See page 20.) Do not keep anything in brown paper bags, but save these bags for other uses. Have a regular time for inspecting and for cleaning all the places and receptacles where food is kept. Do not allow any spilled food material to remain anywhere, and do not tolerate