357 HOUSEWIFERY marked poison, chloride of lime, or some reliable preparation1 (though these are rather expensive), rock salt, and coarse common salt. Methods of cleaning. — We must first consider what the substance is that has to be removed. The fabrics and up- holstery used in furnishing catch dust which contains lint, grit, organic material from our bodies, and bacteria. Fab- rics also become spotted (see next chapter). The walls and ceilings, floors and cracks, catch dust. All wood and glass surfaces become soiled from the touch of even clean fingers, and the moisture of the air mixed with dust dulls them. Metal surfaces oxidize, and this oxidized layer must be rubbed off. To clean fabrics. — If you live in a suburb or in the country, brush, shake, and beat articles to be cleaned out of doors, noticing the way of the wind that the dust may not be carried back into the house. To cleanse a rug, spread it on the grass, rub with a medium stiff brush with white soap solution on the wrong side, turn it over, and rinse with water from the hose; or better still, tack it by two comers to a wooden wall, and then wash with hose. The city dweller must resort to the vacuum cleaner, or rely upon a cleaning establishment. The other alternative is to shake out the dust in the room, remove each article as it is cleaned, let the dust settle, and take it out as well as it can be. One apartment dweller heard this remark rise from the window below her: “ Shut the window quick. Those dirty people upstairs are brushing a rug out the window! ” Painted surfaces and woodwork should be wiped off with a soft cloth wrung out of tepid water. A small amount of neutral white soap solution in the water can be used for paint if it is greasy, but alkalies are ruinous. A highly polished surface (piano) is cleaned by washing with 1 Some of the widely advertised disinfectants are rather ineffective. Those interested should look up the tests of commercial disinfectants pub- lished from time to time by the United States Public Health Service.