FOOD PREPARATION 69 There are two classes of waste : uncooked refuse, like potato skins, egg shells, pea pods, meat trimmings and bones; and table scraps from plates. Pieces of fat may be “ tried out,” but do not accumulate more than you use. A few egg shells may be kept for settling coffee, but again do not keep too many. The country dweller has a simple problem. What the farm ani- mals do not eat will serve as fertilizer for plant life. After the bones have been picked, keep them together, in some receptacle, and finally bury or burn them. Have a compost heap properly covered where the uneaten fragments will decompose and make fertilizer, or bury them at once if preferred. The city diveller who uses a coal stove is able to burn some refuse. Strain out whatever liquid is present, dry the refuse under the grate, and put it into a hot fire. Do not crowd damp refuse into the fire box when the fire is low, for it will smoulder, and this heavy- smoke will eventually clog the flues. The odor of this smoke, too, is disagreeable in the neighborhood. A garbage drier, set into the stove pipe, has been devised, but the simpler plan of drying the refuse under the grate is quite as satisfactory. Where gas or kerosene is the fuel, or where electricity is used, the garbage pail is the only resort, unless one lives in a building equipped with a special stove or “ garbage burner ” for the disposal of waste. EXERCISES • 1. What is a principle in cooking? 2. What are the effects of heat upon the foodstuffs ? 3. What is meant by technique in cookery ? 4. What are the essentials in caring for food in the house? 5. What are the steps in the preparation of food ? 6. Explain the origin and usefulness of a recipe. 7. What are the standard weights and measures? 8. What is the purpose of stirring ingredients? Of beating? 9. What is the difference between boiling and steaming? 10. The difference between baking and roasting ? Roasting and broiling? Broiling and toasting? 11. What is the difference between frying and the saute? 12. Describe the care of “ left overs ” and waste. \