95 FRUIT AND ITS PRESERVATION no printed directions. Answer these questions before you begin work. After you have made the sauce, record the work exactly in your notebook. If you want the slices of apple to remain whole, will the method be like i, 2, or 3? If you wish a smooth sauce, what utensil will you need? How will you determine the amount of sugar required? If you are very fond of sugar, your taSte may not be the safest guide. Practical home work. — If you can secure a very slow oven, say a coal oven at night, or a gas oven with a low flame, make an apple sauce in an earthenware pot, as heavy as a bean pot, closely covered, leaving the pot in the oven from six to eight hours. This process is satisfactory in a fireless cooker where a hot stone or iron is used. Remember that water keeps down temperature, and also that it evaporates steadily even in a slow oven. How much water will you put over the apples when the process begins? If you have never cooked apples in this way you will be sur- prised at the color and flavor. Some other fruits. — Pears and quinces develop pleasing flavors when baked. Cook the quinces sliced, as suggested for the apples, in the bean pot, using a little molasses for sweetening and you will have the delicious old-time “ molasses quince.” Prunes. — We are dealing now with a dried fruit. If you com- pare the raisins with the grapes in Fig. 26, you will see how much water is lost in the drying process. The same difference would be evident if you had pictures of a fresh plum and a prune, side by side. This water must be supplied in the process of preparation. The best way to accomplish this is by soaking the prunes many hours, say over night. Prunes have a most undeserved reputation, because they are not well cooked, and at some tables are served too often. With this one new step introduced you may plan the cooking of the prunes, from what you know of apple sauce. The slower and longer the process, the better. The cheaper kinds of prunes will be very satisfactory, with the soaking and slow cooking. What is the sensible thing to do in regard to sugar? If on some occasion you would like prunes to be unusually nice, remove the stones carefully, and in their places slip in seeded raisins which have also been soaked and gently stewed.