LAUNDERING AND DRY CLEANSING 375 bag or pillow case, this is partly obviated, or lay them on a pad on the table. Prepare hot water in the tub, with dissolved soap in it, either for Handwork or a washer. Wash table linen first, then bed linen and towels, and next the body clothes. Soap the articles well, and rub or use a washer. It is well to wash handkerchiefs by them- selves, boiling in a pail for half an hour. If one of the family has a cold or influenza, soak his handkerchiefs in a solution of salt and water and perhaps a little bleaching powder before washing and boiling. Make fresh suds often. This means heavy labor in the ease of portable tubs, but clothes cannot be cleansed in dirty water. Colored cotton and linen articles may be washed last. They should be put first into salt and water to set the color, washed in tepid water with white soap, rinsed thoroughly and hung in the shade, wrong side out. Boiling. — Boil the washed clothes in soap solution for ten min- utes. In case of infectious disease, all the patient’s linen should be boiled an hour,1 and of course exposed clothing is kept separate through the whole process. Rinsing. — This must be thorough and two or three waters must be used. This is the stage where many laundresses fail. The suction washers are very useful here. Wringing. — This must take place between every two stages of the process. Bluing. — Add the bluing solution to clean water to the desired shade, shake each piece, put it through the water, and wring out at once. Do not use bluing in excess. Starching. — Next the fabrics that need a little thin starch may be starched. Starch for stiff collars and shirts is rubbed in at the time of ironing. Drying. — Hang out the clothes, having pieces of a kind to- gether, and the threads straight. If out of doors, hang in such a way that the air will have easy access. Take down, when dry, and fold lightly in a basket. Sprinkle, roll tightly, and leave them until ironing time. Thin fabrics should be very moist, as they dry quickly. 1 Depending upon the nature of the infection, it may be possible to sub- stitute the use of a proper disinfectant, followed by short boiling.