VEGETABLES AND VEGETABLE COOKERY 115 tables in boiling salted water, throwing the water away, is not the correct method, except in a few cases. With this method much of the valuable mineral matter and the flavoring substances are lost in the water. With such strong flavored vegetables as the cabbage, old onions and beets, and old potatoes this method is permissible, but even in these eases the nutritive value is decreased. Principles of cooking. — Softening of the fiber. Opening of the starch granules, when starch is present, at a tem- perature of 212° F. Retaining mineral and flavoring matters. Cooking processes. — These rank in value as they do or do not retain the mineral and flavoring matters. Baking. — No nutritive material lost. The best method for potatoes and sweet potatoes. Used also for squash, pumpkin, beets, young onions, dried beans, peas, and lentils. Steaming. (Cooking in a steamer.)—No nutritive material lost. A good method for all fresh vegetables. Steamed vegetables have less flavor than baked. Stewing. — Cooking in a stew pan or kettle with so little water that it is almost boiled out at the end of the process, any remaining liquid being served with the vegetable. The best method for spinach, which can be cooked with no additional water, beyond that remaining on the leaves from the washing. The French use this method almost entirely, and with tender peas and carrots they omit water and use butter only. A substitute for this latter is a very small amount of water, with the addition of butterine or some good butter substitute. Boiling. Cooldng in a large amount of boiling, salted water, the water to be drained off and thrown away. May be used with old beets of rank flavor, strong onions, old potatoes, or potatoes boiled with the skins on. A wasteful method. Adjuncts. Salt, pepper, butter, or some other fat, milk, cheese, bread crumbs, parsley, eggs. Utensils. A vegetable brush, a sharp knife, a chopper, a po- tato masher, a strainer, a colander, a stew pan, kettle or steamer, baking pan, halving dish, bean pot, frying pan or kettle. General directions. — Wash the vegetables, scrubbing the skin vegetables with a brush. Washing in several waters is important with spinach to remove all grit. Scrape off thin skins or pare off the thicker. Thick skins such as those of old beets are more easily