THE ROAST BEEF OF OLD ENGLAND 175 * of his grace, your master. I would give an hundred pounds, on the condition I could feed so heartily on beef, as you doe. Alas ! my weak and queazie stomach will hardly digest the wing of a small rabbit or chicken.’ The King pleasantly pledged him, and heartily thanked him for his good cheer ; after dinner departed, as undis- covered as he came thither. Some weeks after, the abbot was sent for by a pursuivant, brought up to London, clapt in the Tower, kept close prisoner, fed for a short time on bread and water; yet not so empty his body as his mind was filled with fears, creating many suspicions of himself, when and how he had incurred the King’s dis- pleasure. At last a sir-loyne of beef was set before him, on which the abbot fed as the farmer of his grange, and verified the proverb that two hungry meals make the third a glutton. In springs King Henry out of a private lobbie where he had placed himself, the invisible spectator of the abbot’s behaviour. ‘ My lord,’ quoth the King presently, ‘ deposit your hundred pounds of gold, or else no going hence all the days of your life. I have been your physicain to cure you of your queazie stomach; and here, as I deserve, I demand my fee for the same.’ The abbot down with his dust, and, glad he had escaped so, returned to Reading ; as somewhat lighter in his purse, so much merrier in heart.” The story may, or it may not, be apocryphal ; on the face of it, the tale seems designed to force prominently into notice the high-feeding proclivities of the Churchmen of those days. The actual cere- mony of the accolade is not mentioned, as it is in the legend which attributes the freak to Charles II. The Merry Monarch is said to have returned from Epping Forest literally as hungry as a hunter to that hospitable mansion, Friday Hall, Chingford. His delight at beholding on the table a huge loin of beef, steaming hot, was such that he exclaimed, “ A noble joint ! by St. George it shall have a title I ” And drawing his sword, he raised it above the gallant joint, crying with mock dignity, “ Loin, we dub thee knight—henceforward be Sir Loin.” Within recent times the old Chingford mansion, formerly a royal hunting lodge said to have been used by Queen Elizabeth, claimed to possess the veritable table upon which King Charles knighted the beef. It was a