117 BARONIAL PROFUSION The word “ luncheon,” which signifies a short meal between breakfast and dinner, has been con- fused with “ nunchion,” or literally “ noontion,” derived from ” noon,” the middle of the day. The Gentleman’s Magazine for 1830 quotes an account for some London repairs made in the years 1422 and 1423, in which the workmen had certain allowances made to them for their ” noun- chyns,” ‘‘ noonchyns,” or “ nonsenches ”—the term is variously spelt, but it probably denotes a mid- day allowance of drink, such as the Normans called a “ bever.” The derivation of ” lunch ” is from “ lump ” or ” hunch,” signifying a handful of food, such as a labourer would indulge in. Originally a “ breakfast ” was really a break in the long fast from overnight, a mere snack, a light meal like that still customary on the Continent, till the principal meal was served. Indeed, the French word ” dinner,” in its earliest use, meant to un-fast. A medieval tale very quaintly illustrates the un- conscionable time spent over their meals in those days by persons of rank and wealth ; it runs in this wise :— “ An Italian having a sute here in Englande to the Archbushoppe of Yorke, and commynge to Yorke, when one of the prebendaries there breake his breade, as they term it, and thereupon make a solemne longe diner, the whiche perhaps began at eleven, and continued well nigh till fower in the afternoone, at the whiche the bishoppe was. It fortuned that as they were sette, the Italian knockt at the gate, unto whom the porter, perceiving his errand, answered that my lord bishoppe was at diner. The Italian departed, and retourned betwixt twelve and one ; the porter answered they were yet at diner. He came againe at twoo of the clocke; the porter told hym they had not half dined. He came at three a clocke unto whom the porter in a heate, answered never a worde, but churlishlie did shutte the gates upon him. Whereupon, others told the Italian that there was no speaking with my lorde almoste that daie, for the solemn diner sake. The gentilman Italian wonderyng much at suche a long sitting, and greatly greved because he could