GOOD CHEER 338 After some hesitation, the whole truth had to be divulged to the warlike monarch, who, instead of being angry, rejoiced to discover the Saracens were such excellent food, as his army whenever in reach of the infidels need be in no more danger of famine. Among Eastern nations exist a number of folk- myths, the ethical value of which is no doubt to teach the obligations of hospitality. Incidentally, however, they reveal vestiges of the lingering traditions of anthropophagy. Here is one of Servian origin :— “ A weary traveller called at the hut of a very poor man, and asked for food and shelter. ‘ The forest will give us wood to make a fire,’ said the wife, ‘but meat we have none.’ The husband, after search- ing every corner, found a dry crust, which he offered his visitor. ‘ Do you offer this to a traveller ?’ he cried. ‘ I want tender meat.’ ‘ Alas ! ’ said the good man, ‘ we have neither sheep nor goats. How can we give you meat?’ ‘You have a child which will provide me with meat.’ Upon hearing this the poor woman fell fainting to the ground ; but the husband, horror-struck though he was, could not fail in hospitality, and after killing the child to provide for the wants of his visitor, went to bed with a relieved mind, and slept soundly. The traveller, however, was Christ; the child was not lost to them, and their hospitality was rewarded with flocks and herds.” Similar legends occur in Thessaly and the neigh- bouring countries of the Near East. In Buddhist legendary literature recur many varying tales of the sacrifice of body or limbs for starving animals, or for the sole gratification of an enemy. By the Aztecs of Mexico, a people, though singu- larly fierce and warlike, far advanced in the arts of civilisation, cannibalism was invested with great pomp. Prescott, the historian of the country, in his account of the Spanish Conquest, thus alludes to the practice, which was in essence perhaps an ancient hereditary custom practised as a religious cere- mony :— “ The most loathsome part of the story—the manner in which the body of the sacrificed captive was disposed of—remains yet to be