80 GOOD CHEER which the Saxons were already too much addicted. By their religion the Danes were led to hope for a glorious immortality, spent in feasting and intoxica- tion. Hardicanute, the last of the Danish line who swayed the sceptre of England, was famous for his bounty and hospitality. Four times a day his tables were spread, at which all were welcome, invited guests and any friends they cared to bring with them. Hardicanute fell a victim to his excesses, being seized with a fit while present at a wedding feast at Lambeth, from the effects of which he died in a few days. The anniversary of the royal glutton’s death was long celebrated under the appropriate name of Hogg-tide. An ancient chronicle says he never would “ be served with ony like metes of one meale in another,” and that "chaunge and diversitie was dayly in greate habundance” ; that he caused cunynge cooks in curiositie; also he was the furst that began four meales stablyshed in oon day, opynly to be holden for worshupfull and honest peopull resorting to his Court . . . for which four melys he ordeyned four marshalls, to kepe the honor of his halle, in recevyng and dyrecting straungers.” The Anglo-Dane’s ideas of hospitality were truly regal ! A Saxon dinner has been thus described in a work entitled “ Sea Kings in England ” :— “The dining-table was oblong, and rounded at the ends. The cloth was a rich crimson, with a broad gilt margin, and hung low beneath the table. The company sat upon chairs, with concave backs, and were arranged much as at the present day, with the view that to each of the ladies should be assigned a neighbour of the other sex. . . . The dishes consisted of fowls and fish, of the flesh of oxen, sheep, deer, and swine, both wild and domestic, not excepting certain portions of the sea swine, or porpoise—a food not at present much in repute, but at that period no unfrequent article of diet. There were two sanda, or dishes, of sodden syflian, or soup bouilli, and one of seathen, or boiled goose. The bread was of the finest wheaten flour, and lay in two silver baskets upon the table. Almost the only vegetable in use among the Saxons was kale wort ; and the only condiments were salt and pepper. These various