A ROMAN BANQUET 75 “ That which smokes in the middle,” said he, “ is a sow’s stomach, tilled with a composition of minced pork, hog’s brains, pepper, cloves, garlic, aniseed, rue, ginger, oil, wine, and pickle. On the right-hand side are the teats of a belly of a sow, just farrowed, fried with sweet wine, oil, flour, lovage, and pepper. On the left is a fricassee of snails, fed, or rather purged, with milk. At that end, next Mr. Pallet, are fritters of pompions, lovage, origanum, and oil; and here are a couple of pullets, roasted and stuffed in the manner of Apicius.” The painter, having testified his abhorrence of the composite messes, was desired by his host to carve the fowls, whereupon he tucked the table-cloth under his chin and brandished the carving-knife and fork with singular success, leading up, though uncon- sciously, to the final catastrophe. No sooner had he pushed the fork in the birds than his eyes filled with tears, which presently streamed down his cheeks, as though his nostrils had been assailed by the essence of a whole bed of garlick. But when he thrust in his knife and opened up the cavity, he was assaulted by such an irruption of intolerable smells that, without staying to disengage himself from the cloth, he sprang away with an exclamation, and in- stantly wrought the whole table in havoc, ruin, and confusion. Everybody round the table was involved, more or less, in the alarming catastrophe, the count being badly scalded on the leg by the sow’s stomach, which, bursting in its fall, discharged its steaming contents over him. The poor count had to have his injuries dressed at once, and the painter did not dare to return till he had made his apologies by proxy. The doctor, after his shame and vexation had subsided, protested that there was nothing in the fowls which could give offence to a sensible nose, the stuffing being a mixture of pepper, lovage, and asafoetida, and the sauce consisting of wine and herring pickle, which he had used instead of the celebrated garutn of the Romans, that famous pickle having been prepared