TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 125 the vineyards of Ay in his own hands; sack, that still unexplained object of antiquarian inquiry, was also one of the luxuries of this age- “ At coronations or banquets it was, however, invariably the custom to dilute the genuine wines, and to cover the harshness and acidity which they possessed by mixing them with honey or with spices. ‘ Thus compounded,’ says a modern writer on the subject, ‘ they passed under the generic name of piments, because they were originally prepared by the pigmentarii or apothecaries, and they were used much in the same manner as the liqueurs of modern times. The varieties of piment chiefly introduced at the banquets of our kings were hippocras, so called from the bag termed ‘ Hippocrates’ sleeve,’ through which it was strained; and clarry, or clarre, a claret, or mixed wine, mingled with honey, and frequently drunk as a composing draught by persons who were on the point of retiring to rest. These beverages, especially hippocras, were deemed too expensive to be distributed on ordinary occasions, nor do they appear from the accounts given by our chroniclers to have been presented more than once during the feast. Metheglin or mead, braket, a composition of ale and honey, a very ancient drink in this country, and ale, were chiefly used for private persons and domestics.” The royal banquets of Elizabeth’s time differed widely from those of her predecessors, even from the honest and unrefined heartiness which had charac- terised those of her bluff and jovial sire. A pedantic affectation of learning pervaded the atmosphere ; and wild inventions of heathen mythology or classical fable even got interwoven in the pageantry of her feastings. When she paid a visit to the house of one of her nobles, at the entering of the hall she was saluted by the “ Penates ” and conducted to her privy chamber by “ Mercury.” Even the pastry- cooks of the time became expert mythologists. At dinner select transformations of Ovid’s Meta- morphoses were exhibited in confectionery. The icing of an immense “ plomb-cake ” would be embossed with a delicious basso-relievo of the Fall of Troy. There was no end to the fooleries of this description—most of them foreign to the subject here under consideration.