GOOD CHEER 174 Our fathers of old were robust, stout, and strong. And kept open house with good cheer all day long ; Which made their plump tenants rejoice in the song Oh ! the roast beef of Old England,” &c. The next verse boasts of the roast-beef-produced valour of our sailors who vanquished the Spanish Armada. Now, though roast beef was cooked and served in Elizabeth’s days, it did not become popular till the reign of Charles II., when, as we shall see, the days of spoon-meat had finally passed, the fork having come to the aid of the carver and the diner, and when a “ roast ” was looked upon as a welcome relief from the monotony of the customary boiled meats. The collops of olden times were slices or lumps of meat ; sometimes of bacon, sometimes of beef (such as we should now call beefsteaks), sometimes of mutton '(which would now be called mutton-chops). In the Book of Job allusion is made to the wicked man who “ maketh collops of fat on his flanks ” ; and Shakespeare speaks of “ a collop of flesh.” The era of the large roasted joint of beef recalls the legendary knighting of the Sir Loin ; it will not be uninteresting to trace, or attempt to trace, this old English legend to its source. The lore of the legend is somewhat contradictory, and one of the earliest references to the “ Sir Loin ” is by old gossip Fuller in his Church History (1655) :— " King Henry VIII. as he was hunting in Windsor Forest, either casually lost, or (more probably) wilfully losing himself, struck down about dinner-time to the abbey of Reading, when, disguising himself (much for delight, more for discovery, to see, unseen), he was invited to the abbot’s table, and passed for one of the King’s guard ; a place to which the proportion of his person might properly entitle him. A sir-loyne of beef was set before him (so knighted saith tradition by this King Henry); on which the King laid on lustily, not disgracing one of that place for whom he was mistaken. ‘ Well fare thy heart,’ quoth the abbot; ‘and here is a cup of sack. I remember the health