GOOD CHEER 124 pigs, one carcass of an ox, besides fourteen dozen of swan, and other varieties of the feathered and finny tribes, too numerous to be detailed. As the female members of a company are usually critics in the more delicate minutiag of the culinary art, our ancestors did not fail still to intersperse their banquets with intricate confectionery, in which their skill appears to have been by no means despicable. The usual “ subtleties,” those skilful contrivances in confectionery of symbolical meanings and compli- mentary references, were still in vogue. Between the courses, and after the feast, the attendants presented to the company services of fruit, butter, spiced cakes, hard cheese, and sweetmeats ; and in these intervals the introduction of music and songs filled up the pauses in conversation ; and pageants, mummings, and dancing were sometimes contrived to vary the monotonous pleasures of the table. As to the beverages— “ In enumerating the luxuries of the ancient banquet, it must not be supposed that wine, that requisite of convivial scenes, was wanting to complete its allurements. We have seen in what profusion the Rhenish wines were distributed to the multitudes who thronged to view the festivities of the Court, on various public occasions ; and it may easily be supposed how common the use of such an article must have been, to have authorised so liberal a distribution to the populace. The consumption of wine, although prodigious, appears, however, to have been regulated in the houses of our nobility and monarchs with scrupulous attention to economy, notwith- standing the low value of those most in general use. Henry VIII. bestowed considerable attention upon the article of wine, and by several statutes endeavoured to restrain the increased prices of ‘ Malmsey, romaneis, or rumney, sack, and other sweet wines.’ “The wines most in use at this period appear to have been Malmsey, Rhenish, and the wines of Gascony and of Guienne; which last were introduced into England at the time when part of the French dominions surrendered to the British arms : besides these, it has been decided that the champagne vintage was already in great repute ; and among others who estimated its productions, Henry VIII. is numbered, and is even stated to have held one of