413 GOOD CHEER IN FICTION “. . . brought in whole hogs and quarter beeves, And all the hall was dim with steam of flesh; And none spake word, but all sat down at once. And ate with tumult in the naked hall. Feeding like horses when you hear them feed ; Till Enid shrank far back into herself.” The Dickensian conception of what constituted good cheer generally ran to the extreme of over- eating. In the Pickwickian Christmas celebration, for instance, that hearty old host the jovial Mr. .Wardle would have compelled every man, woman, and child about him, just as a guarantee of good- fellowship, to eat far more than was good for them. And yet, of all the feasts of fiction, which of them' can compare with the Christmas dinner at Bob Cratchit’s? In the whole range of literature there is nothing to compare with it for the intensity of its pathos and humour. We read that the young Cratchits went to the bakehouse to bring home the goose in high procession. Then the narrative pro- ceeds :— “ Such a bustle ensued that you might have thought a goose the rarest of all birds ; a feathered phenomenon, to which a black swan was a matter of course—and in truth it was something very like it in that house. Mrs. Cratchit made the gravy (ready beforehand in a little saucepan) hissing hot; Master Peter mashed the potatoes with incredible vigour; Miss Belinda sweetened up the apple sauce; Martha dusted the hot plates; Bob took Tiny Tim beside him in a tiny corner at the table ; the young Cratchits set chairs for everybody not forgetting themselves, and mounting guard upon their posts, crammed spoons into their mouths, lest they should shriek for goose before their turn came to be helped. At last the dishes were set on, and grace was said. It was succeeded by a breathless pause, as Mrs. Cratchit, looking slowly all along the carving-knife, prepared to plunge it in the breast; but when she did, and when the long-expected gush of stuffing issued forth, one murmur of delight arose all round the board, and even Tiny Tim, excited by the two young Cratchits, beat on the table with the handle of his knife, and feebly cried Hurrah ! “ There never was such a goose. Bob said he didn’t believe there