TABLE MANNERS OF TUDOR TIMES 121 and regularity. Here are a few “ rules of the house ” of “ the righte excellent princesse Cicill, late mother unto the right noble prince Kinge Edward IV.” “ Upon eatynge daycs, at dynner by eleven of the clocke, a first dynner in the tyme of highe masse, for carvers, cupbearers, sewars, and offyeers. “ Upon fastinge dayes, by twelve of the clocke, and a later dynner for carvers and for wayters. “ At supper upon eatynge dayes for carvers and offyeers, at four of the clocke : my lady and the householde at five of the clocke, at supper. “ When my lady is served of the second course, at dynner, at supper, the chamber is rewarded and the halle with breede and ale, after the discretyon of the usher. [That is, those whose different stations in the family entitle them to sit either in the chamber or the hall are at this time regaled with bread and ale.] Rewardes from the kytehen there is none, savinge to ladyes and gentlewomen ; to the head offyeers if they be present; to the deane of the chappelle, to the almoner, to the gentlemen ushers, to the carvers, cupbearers, and sewers, to the cofferer, to the clerke of the kytehen, and to the marshall. “ There is none that dyneth in their offyees savinge only the cookes, the scullery, the sawcerye, the porters, the baker, if they be occupied with bakeinge. “ Upon Sondaye, Tuesdaye, and Thursdaye the household at dynner is served with beefe and mutton, and one roste ; at supper, leyched beefe [f.e., in shives] and mutton roste. “ Uppon Mondaye and Wensdaye at dynner, on boyled beefe and mutton at supper, ut supra. “ Upon fastinge dayes, salte fyshe, and two dishes of fresh fyshe ; if there come a principall feaste, it is served like unto the feaste honorablye. “ If Monday or Wensdaye be hollidaye, then is the household served with one roste, as in other dayes. “Upon Satterdaye at dynner, salt fyshe, one fresh fyshe, and butter : at supper salt fishe and egges. “ Wyne daylie to the heade offyeers when they be present, to the ladyes and gentlewomen, to the deane &c. [as before enumerated]. “ Upon Frydaye is made paymente of all manner of freshe cates ; at every moneth ende is made paymente of all manner of other thinges. [‘ Cates,’ or provisions opsonia, were the more delicate or more perishable foods, to be eaten with bread. A ‘ caterer ’ was a purveyor of such viands.]