128 GOOD CHEER kneeled three times, witli the utmost veneration, he spread, upon the table, and after kneeling again, they bothi retired. Then came two others, one with the rod again, the other with a salt-cellar, a plate and bread ; when they had kneeled, as the others had done, and placed what was brought upon the table, they too retired, with the same ceremonies performed by the first. “At last came an unmarried lady (we were told she was a countess) and along with her a married one, bearing a tasting knife ; the former was dressed in white silk, who, when she had prostrated herself three times in the most graceful manner, approached the table, and rubbed the plates with bread and salt, with as much care as if the Queen had been present; when they had waited there a little time, the yeomen of the guard entered bareheaded cloathed in scarlet with a golden rose upon their backs, bringing in at each turn a course of four and twenty dishes, served in plate most of it gilt; these dishes were received by a gentleman in the same order they were brought, and placed upon the table, while the lady taster gave to each of the guard a mouthful to eat, for fear of any poison. During the time that this guard, which consists of the tallest and stoutest men that can be found in all England, being carefully selected for this service, were bringing dinner, twelve trumpets and two kettle-drums made the hall ring for half-an-hour together. At the end of all this ceremonial, a number of unmarried ladies appeared who, with particular solemnity, lifted the meat off the table, and conveyed it into the Queen’s inner and more private chamber, where, after she has chosen for herself, the rest goes to the ladies of the Court. The Queen sups and dines alone with very few attendants, and it is very seldom that anybody, foreigner or native, is admitted at that time, and then only at the intercession of somebody in power.” This account was written by the German in Latin ; the translation is by Horace Walpole. Dr. Pegge, the learned antiquary, is of opinion that large dishes and great joints were not intro- duced till the time of Elizabeth. Game, large birds, and monstrous fish were often served up, and as they had to be dismembered without the assistance of a fork the business was left entirely to the carver, and the guests never troubled themselves about it. We learn from Harrison’s “ Description of England,” prefixed to Hollingshed, that eleven