GOOD CHEER 34 fingers, and for the first time in his life (in the world’s life indeed, for before him no man had knowm it) he tasted—crackling. Again he felt and fumbled at the pig. It did not burn him so much now still he licked his fingers from a sort of habit. The truth at length broke into his slow understanding that it was the pig that smelt so, and the pig that tasted so delicious ; and surrendering himself up to the new-born pleasure, he fell to tearing up whole handfuls of the scorched skin with the flesh next it, and was cramming it dowua his throat in his beastly fashion, when his sire entered amid the smoking rafters, armed with retributory cudgel, and finding how affairs stood, began to rain blows upon the young rogue’s shoulders, as thick as hail-stones, which Bo-bo heeded not anymore than if they had been flies. The tickling pleasure, which he experienced in his lower regions, had rendered him quite callous to any inconveniences he might feel in those remote quarters. His father might lay on, but he could not beat him from his pig, till he had fairly made an end of it.” And thus the gentle Elia rambles on, revelling in every one of the details of his burlesque genesis of roast pig ; telling us, with inimitable drollery, how the people took to firing their homes to indulge themselves in the aelights of this delicacy ; till some philosopher discovered that the flesh of swine “ might be cooked {burnt they called it) without the necessity of consuming a whole house to dress it. Then first began the rude form of a gridiron. Roasting by the string or spit came a century or two later.” Of the subject of his pretended rhapsodies, the humorist declares that in the whole mundus edibilis there is nothing to equal roast sucking-pig. “ There is no flavour comparable, I will contend, to that of the crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted crackling, as it is well called—the very teeth are invited to their share of the pleasure at this banquet in overcoming the coy, brittle resistance—with the adhesive oleaginous—O, call it not fat! but an undefinablc sweetness growing up to it—the tender blossoming of fat—the cream and quint- essence of the child-pig’s yet pure food—the lean, no lean, but a kind of animal manna—or rather, fat and lean (if it must be so) so blended and running into each other, that both together make but one ambrosian result.”