THE MAINSPRING OF CIVILISATION 33 on Roast Pig,” though in the case he quotes the sacrifice of the animal was accidental and involun- tary. Still, as against this dissemblance, it will be seen that the dissertation demonstrates that the art of cookery was an indirect and somewhat belated outcome of the discovery of fire. “ Mankind, says a Chinese manuscript, for the'first seventy thousand ages ate their meat raw, clawing or biting it from the living animal just as they do in Abyssinia to this day. This period is not obscurely hinted at by their great Confucius in the second chapter of his Mundane Mutations,' where he designates a kind of golden age by the term Cho-fang, literally the Cooks’ Holiday. The manuscript goes on to say, that the art of roasting, or rather broiling (which I take to be the elder brother) was accidentally discovered in the manner following. The swineherd Ho-ti, having gone out into the woods one morning, as his manner was, to collect mast for his hogs, left his cottage in the care of his eldest son, Bo-bo, a great lubberly boy, who being fond of playing with fire, as youngkers of his age commonly are, let some sparks escape into a bundle of straw, which kindling quickly, spread the conflagration over every part of their poor mansion, till it was reduced to ashes. Together with the cottage (a sorry antediluvian make-shift of a building, you may think it) what was of much more importance, a fine litter of new- farrowed pigs, no less than nine in number, perished. China pigs, have been esteemed a luxury all over the East, from the remotest periods that we read of. Bo-bo was in the utmost consternation, as. you may think, not so much for the sake of the tenement, which his. father and he could easily build up again with a few dry branches,, and the labour of an hour or two, at any time, as for the loss of the- pigs. While he was thinking what he should say to his father, and wringing his hands over the smoking remnants of one of those untimely sufferers, an odour assailed his nostrils, unlike any scent which he had before experienced. What could it proceed from ? not from the burnt cottage—he had smelt that smell before—indeed this was by no means the first accident of the kind which had occurred through the negligence of this unlucky young fire-brand. Much less did it resemble that of any known herb, weed, or flower. A premonitory moistening at the same time overflowed his nether lip. He knew not what to think. He next stooped down to feel the pig, if there were any signs of life in it. He burnt his fingers, and to cool them he applied them in his booby fashion to his mouth. Some of the crumbs of the scorched skin had come away with his 3