408 GOOD CHEER “ Drink, drink ! ” so lustily that no less than 17,913 cows had to be provided to supply this vigorous babe with milk. Later we read that when King Grangonsier made a feast for his son Gargantua on his return after defeating King Picrochole, “they made ready supper, and of extraordinary, besides his daily fare, were roasted sixteen oxen, three heifers, two-and-thirty calves, three-score-and-three fat kids, fourscore and fifteen wethers, three hundred barrow pigs soused in sweet wine, elevenscore partridges, seven hundred snipes and woodcocks, four hundred London Corn- wall capons, six thousand pullets and as many pigeons, six hundred crammed hens, fourteen hundred leverets, three hundred and three buzzards, and one thousand and seven hundred cockerels. For venison, they could not so suddenly come by it, only eleven wild boars, which the Abbot of Turpenay sent, and eighteeen fallow deer, which the Lord Gramniont bestowed ; together with seven score pheasants, which were sent by the Lord of Essars, and some dozens of quests, cushats, ring-doves, and wood-culvers ; river-fowl, teals and awteals, bitterns, courtes, plovers, francolins, briganders, tyrasons, young lapwings, tame ducks, shovelers, woodlanders, herons, moor-hens, criels, storks, comepetiers, oranges, flamans which are phcEnicopters, terrigoles, turkies, arbens, coots, solin- geese, curlews, termagants, and water-wagtails, with a great deal of cream, curds, and fresh cheese and store of soup, pottage and brewis, with variety. Without doubt this was meat enough,” reflectively adds the historian Alcofribas. Barmecide’s Feast, the typical banquet of empti- ness, we get from “ The Arabian Nights.” Barmecide asked Schacabac, a poor starving wretch, to dinner, and set before him an empty plate. “ How do you like your soup?” asked the merchant. “Excel- lently well,” replied Schacabac. “ Did you ever see whiter bread? ” “ Never, honourable sir,” was the civil answer. Wine was then brought in, and Schacabac was pressed to drink, but excused himself by saying he was always quarrelsome in his cups. Being over-persuaded, he fell foul of his host, and was provided with food to his heart’s content. The term “ Barmecide’s Feast ” is commonly used