398 GOOD CHEER stood four gallant young boys, singing most sweetly before the presence. And, to speak truly, this entre course seemed a terrestrial paradise, for on the tops and pinnacles of the tower and donjon, were fixed the escutcheons and banners of France, richly painted and emblazoned in colours ; as also the devices of Charles the Seventh, and the Order of the Star in white and carnation. Th.Q fourth service consisted of fowls, as well great as small, the whole being sumptuously gilded : and on each of the twelve tables were placed an hundred and forty silver dishes, according as in all the other services. After this service was brought in (for an entre course) the shape of a beast, called a tiger, which (by cunning art) disgorged fire from his mouth and nostrils. About his neck was a rich collar, whereat hung the arms and devices of the king, very costly and curiously fashioned. This entre course was carried by six men, each of them having a mandillon and bonnet, made after the fashion of Bearne ; and they danced before the lords and ladies, according to the manner of the country ; which moved much mirth and laughter, and this entre course was commended above all the rest, in regard of the new dancing. “ The fifth service was of pies, tarts, dishes of cream oranges-adoes and citrons confected ; each of the twelve tables being served with an hundred and forty silver dishes. After the said service of sweets, was carried another entre course, which was a great hill or mountain, borne by four and twenty men. In the mountain stood two fair artificial fountains ; from the one flowed abundantly white wine, and from the other red.” After the sixth service of red hypocrass and wafers came another “ entre course ” of a man on horse- back, “very artificially [artfully] made, attired in crimson velvet, but the whole consisting of goldsmith’s work. In the midst was a small garden, and therein stood a poet gathering all kinds of roses and other flowers, made of wax, which he presented to the ladies.” Truly a pretty conceit. The seventh service was of spiceries and con- fections, after which was carried round “ a living peacock, and a goodly great ship.” As Favines Theatre of Honour ” informs us, these were not the whole of the remarkable efforts put forth on this occasion to please the company ; ” con-