GOOD CHEER 72 Mr. Pallet would place themselves uprig'ht at the ends, that they might have the pleasure of serving. As none of them understood the ancient manner of lolling, it is amusing to read of the disconcerting mis- haps which occurred while they were attempting to dispose themselves round the table. The perplexities, mistakes, and consequent confusion may be imagined, the awkward and painful postures, the disarrangement of stiff, modish dress, being but minor difficulties ; the climax came when the big, un- wieldy baron, in raising his heavy legs to the level of his upper limbs, brought his feet into violent con- tact with the head of the marquis, demolishing every one of his beautiful curls, while his own periwig was knocked off with such violence that it filled the whole room with a cloud of hair-powder. The drollery of their distress was as nothing compared with their ridiculous affectation of unconcern, as mutual apolo- gies were tendered with elaborate politeness, and received with rueful complaisance. These mis- fortunes ended and the damages repaired, the meal began, the doctor undertaking to give an account of the dishes as they appeared, so that his guests might be guided in their choice. He began : “ This here, gentlemen, is a boiled goose, served up in a sauce composed of pepper, lovage, coriander, mint, rue, anchovies, and oil. I wish, for your sakes, gentlemen, it was one of the geese of Ferrara, so much celebrated among the ancients for the magnitude of their livers, one of which is said to have weighed upwards of two pounds ; with this food, exquisite as it was, did the tyrant Helioga- balus regale his hounds. But I beg pardon, I had almost forgot the soup, which I hear is so necessary an article at all tables in France. “ At each end there are dishes of the salacacabia of the Romans ; one is made of parsley, pennyroyal, cheese, pine-tops, honey, vinegar, brine, eggs, cucumbers, onions, and hen-livers; the other is much the same as the soup-ntaigre of this country. Then there is a loin of boiled veal with fennel and carraway seed, on a pottage composed of pickle, oil, honey, and flour, and a curious hash of the lights, liver, and blood of a hare, together with a dish of roasted pigeons.”