GOOD CHEER 302 corn brandy. Sometimes a cold soup is served, made of a stock of half-fermented rye or barley-beer, with pieces of herring, cucumber, meat, and ice floating in it. The Russians are fond of smoked fish, cut into slices and served with a sauce of mustard, olive oil, and vinegar. They are also given to cold-boiled sucking-pig ; the animal is boiled in white wine, boned aRer it has cooled, and then encrusted in a mould of powdered ice and aspic jelly, and served with poached white of egg, gherkins, beetroot, and other garnishings. Quass, the fermented cabbage-water of the Russians, is described as tasting like stale fish and soapsuds, yet it has millions of votaries. In the colder regions of the country tallow-candles are not despised as an article of diet. Of Italian dishes none is better known than macaroni. It first attracted the notice of English travellers in the eighteenth century, and the young bloods of that day, on their return from the grand tour, borrowed its name for their most fashionable club. This set of travelled fops, as vicious as they were exclusive, called themselves the Macaronis, and introduced this dish at Almack’s subscription table. According to Mr. Tom Murrey, a writer on culinary matters, the word “ Macaroni ” had a most interesting origin. He says :— “A wealthy Palermitan noble owned a cook with an inventive genius. One day, in a rapture of culinary composition, this artist cook devised the farinaceous tubes which all love so well, and the succulent accessories of rich white sauce with grated parmesan. “ Having filled a large china bowl with this delicious compound, he set it before his lord—a gourmet of the first water—and stood by, in deferential attitude, to watch the effect of his experiment. “The first mouthful elicited the ejaculation ‘Cari!’ idiomatically equivalent to ‘Excellent’ in English. After swallowing a second modicum he exclaimed, ‘ Ma cari! ’ or ‘ Excellent, indeed.' " Presently, as the flavour of the toothsome dish grew upon him.