FEASTS, HISTORIC OR NOTABLE 403 “ Certainly this company, which was incorporated in 1484, might have afforded a more delicate feast than ‘Two loins of mutton, two loins of veal, a loin of beef, a leg of mutton, a pig, a capon, a coney, one dozen of pigeons, a hundred of eggs, a goose, a gallon of red wine, and a kilderkin of ale, which cost seven shillings.' “ Among the great feasts given on public occasions, may be reckoned that given in 1612, on occasion of the unhappy marriage of the Prince Palatine with Elizabeth, daughter of James I., who, in defiance of the remonstrance of his better-judging father-in-law, rushed on the usurpation of the dominion of another, and brought great misery on himself and his amiable spouse. The next was in 1641, when Charles I. returned from his imprudent, inefficacious journey into Scotland. In the midst of the most factious and turbulent times, when every engine was set to work to annihilate the regal power, the city, under its Lord Mayor, Sir William Acton, made a feast unparalleled in history for its magnificence. All ex- ternal respect was paid to his majesty, the last he ever experienced in the inflamed city. Of the entertainment we know no more than that it consisted of five hundred dishes. The sotelties were the ornamental part of the dessert. “ The whole of the entertainment given to their majesties, George III. and Queen Charlotte, in 1761, cost the city ;^6,898 5s. 4^. The feast consisted of 414 dishes, besides the dessert. The king and queen viewed the inaugural procession from the windows of Mr. Barclay, a linendraper, in Cheapside. " Adjacent to Guildhall was, formerly Guildhall chapel, or college, a Gothic building, founded by Peter Fanlove, Adam Francis, and Henry Frowick, citizens, about the year 1299. The establishment was a warden, seven priests, three clerks, and four choristers. Edward VI. granted it to the mayor and commonalty of the city of London. Here used to be service once a week, and also at the election of the mayor, and before the mayor’s feast, to deprecate indigestions 2ind\d.\\. plethoric evils.” The festive proclivities of the legal profession must not be overlooked. Does not the legal neophyte almost literally eat his way to the bar? Doctors’ Commons was so called because the doctors of the civil law had to dine togelther four days in each term—to “ common ” means to dine together—and this was called “eating their terms.” The Inns of Court have witnessed not a few magnificent spreads.