RIGHT ROYAL FEASTING 97 this trouble evidently failed to interfere with the royal appetite, or to lessen the King’s capacity for festivity. Although John had just complained that the royal exchequer was empty, with characteristic recklessness he made all preparations for the holding of a mighty Christmas feast. From the Close Rolls we learn that Reginald de Cornhill was commanded to “ cause Galfrid the salter to receive for us 40 lb. of pepper, 6 lb. of cloves, half lb. of gario fili ” (what this was we cannot discover ; that it was very valuable'appears from the circumstance that 20s. per lb. was paid for it, and that in no entry does it ever appear to have been obtained in a larger quantity than half a pound), “half lb. of nutmegs, 3 lb. of cinnamon, 3 lb. of ginger, to be used for us, and that it be placed to our account.” Another precept, dated December 12th, is ad- dressed to the Keepers of the Royal Wines at South- ampton for three hogsheads of wine. By a further precept, dated Guildford, Decem- ber 17th, Reginald de Cornhill is commanded to send immediately to Windsor “ twenty hogsheads of wine, costly, good, and new, both Gascony wines and French wine, and four hogsheads of best wine for our own drinking {ad os nostrum) both two of white wine and two of red wine, and that it be sent without delay, that it may be received before the day of the Nativity. And we require, for our use, against that day, 200 head of pork, and 1,000 hens, and 500 lb. of wax, and 50 lb. of pepper, and 2 lb. of saffron, and loo lb. of almonds, good and new, and two dozen napkins, and 100 ells of linen cloth, to make table cloths, and 50 ells of delicate cloth of Randan, and of spiceries to make salsas [probably this word rather signifies pickles] as much as ye shall judge necessary, and that all these be sent thither by Saturday or Sunday nearest Christmas. And ye shall send thither 15,000 herrings and other fish, and other victual, as Ph. de Lange- burgh shall tell you. And all these ye shall buy at the accustomed market, as you may deserve our thanks, and according to custom you shall give in your accounts at the Exchequer. Concerning pheasants {fasianis), or partridges, and other birds, which you shall seek for our use, you shall have them from the manor.” 7