368 GOOD CHEER Did the host apologise to those of his unfortunate guests who suffered, in comfort or in costume, from this clownish piece of jocularity? Was it accounted one of those “ untoward incidents ” which are, according to Horace, “ wont to bring out the resources of the host ”? Or was it argued that such buffoonery was at least preferable to the savagery by which, in an earlier age, that mad tyrant Caligula amused himself while taking his meals—the torturing to death of a satisfying number of his fellow- creatures? It is sometimes difficult to fathom the extravagances of which the human mind is capable. Here is a pretty conceit for a grand entertainment invented by Cervio, the famous Italian authority of the sixteenth century :— Several small tables should be placed together on strong tressels so as to form one long one, at which only ladies are to sit. Under the table is to be a trellis covered with odoriferous herbs, flowers, and fruits according to the season, forming a square in the centre of which is a tank filled with fishes, tortoises, and other swimming creatures. Grass is to be laid round the pond, with boughs stuck into it to represent trees, amongst which are to be rabbits, leverets, guinea-pigs, and various birds, tied with ribbons of divers colours, so that the garden may have a wild and animated appearance. To the trees are to be hung boxes of sugar-plums, nosegays, gloves, and other presents for the ladies, from the giver of the banquet. The tables, which are to be gilt and adorned with silk, are then to be covered with a very large, wide, and richly-embroidered table-cloth, which, falling on all sides to the ground, must conceal all that is beneath them. At the end of the repast the attendants shall quickly carry the tables away, lifting them over the heads of the ladies, taking care not to derange their head-dresses. The ladies will then find themselves beside the garden and lake, and each one will take a box of comfits, a small animal or bird, and a small net being handed to her, she can also, to her delight and amusement, catch the fish. A Venetian traveller who visited England in the early Tudor period remarks on the peculiar, the almost incredible courtesy of the English towards strangers. The habit of feasting and being feasted