409 GOOD CHEER IN FICTION to express the uncertainty of things on which we have set our hearts, or the joy which is found to be a mere illusion when we come to partake of it. “ To-morrow ! the mysterious unknown guest Who cries aloud, ‘ Remember Barmecide !’ And trembles to be happy with the rest.” The first delight of the happily departed on enter- ing the Mohammedan Paradise is a glorious feast. According to the Koran it is a future reward to dream about. On the entertainment of the faithful on their admission to Paradise, thus speaks the prophet :— “The whole earth will then be as one loaf of bread, and for meat they shall have the ox Balam and the fish Nun, the lobes of whose livers will suffice seventy thousand men. From this feast every one will be dismissed to the mansion assigned him, where he will have such a share of felicity as is proportionate to his merit, but vastly exceeding comprehension or computation, since the very meanest in Paradise will have 80,000 servants, 72 wives of the girls of Paradise, beside the wives he had in this world, and a tent erected for him of pearls, jacinths, and emeralds of a very large extent. There he will be waited on by 300 attendants while he eats, and shall be served in dishes of gold, whereof 300 shall be set before him at once, containing each a different kind of food, the last morsel of which will be as grateful as the first, and will also be supplied with as many sorts of liquors in vessels of the same metal; and to complete the entertainment, there will be no want of wine, which, though forbidden in this life, will yet be freely allowed in the next without danger, since the wine of Paradise will never inebriate though you drink it for ever.” In Cervantes’s immortal romance “ Don Quixote ” is a description of the marriage feast of Camacho the Rich. The first thing which presented itself to Sancho’s sight, we read, was a, whole bullock spitted upon a large elm. In six huge pots around, entire sheep were swallowed up, and floated like so many pigeons. Hares ready flayed and fowls ready