280 GOOD CHEER of mutton and one lo)me of veal were but as three sprats to him.” The following account is extracted from “ The Wonders of Nature,” by Wiilliam Turner, M.A., Vicar of Walberton, in Sussex, published in 1697 (chapter ix., ‘‘Wonderful Eaters”):— “ Nicolas Wood, of Harrison, in the county of Kent, Yeoman, did with ease eat a whole Sheep of i6s. Price, and that raw, at one meal; at another time he eat 30 dozen of Pidgeons. At Sir William Sidley’s he eat as much as would have sufficed 30 Men ; at the Lord Wotton’s, in Kent, he eat at one meal Fourscore and four Rabbets, which number would have sufficed 168 Men, allowing to each half a Rabbet; he suddenly devoured 18 yards of black pudding, and when at once he had 60 pound weight of Cherries he said they were but wash-meat; he made an end of a whole Hog at once, and after it for fruit swallowed three Pecks of Damsons. After he had broken his Fast, having, as he said, eaten one Pottle of Milk, one Pottle of Pottage, with Bread, Butter, and Cheese ; he eat in my presence, saith Taylor, 6 penny wheaten Loaves, 3 six- penny Veal Pies, one pound of sweet Butter, one good Dish of Thornback, and a shiver off a Peck Household Loaf of an Inch thick, and all this in the space of an hour, the House yielding no more he departed unsatisfied. One John Dale was too hard for him ; he laid a Wager, he would fill Wood’s belly with wholsom Victuals for two Shillings ; another Wagered, that when he had eaten Dale’s two shillings, he should forthwith eat up a good Sir- loin of Beef. Dale bought six Pots of mighty Ale, and twelve new penny white Loaves, which he sop’d in the Ale; the powerful Fume whereof Conquered this Conqueror, and laid him in a Sleep, to the preservation of the Roast-beef; and unexpected winning of the Wager. He spent all his Estate to provide for his Belly, and though a Landed Man, and true Labourer, died Poor about 1630.” Marshal Villars had a house-porter who was an enormous eater. ‘‘ Franz,” said the Marshal one day, ‘‘tell me, now, how many, loins you could eat.” ‘‘ Ah 1 my lord, as for loins, not many ; five or six at most.” ‘‘ And how many legs of mutton? ” ‘‘ Ah ! as for legs of mutton ; not many, seven or eight, perhaps.” ‘‘And fatted pullets?” ‘‘Ah! as for pullets, my lord, not many ; not more than