REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 94 symptoms to the first stages of uraemia, but that this condition disap- pears if tlio kidneys are capable of so depuratinj,' the blood as to r?Hmi- nate the toxic substance. (2) That urea, when introduced into the cir- culation in larger quantity than can in a limited period be excreted liy the kidneys, induces deatli by uraemia. (3) That by ligature of the renal arteries, or removal of the kidneys, the elements of the urine being re- tained in the blood, render thi.s fluid unsuitable to the requirements of the organism, and, consequently, induce a condition of system not essentially distinguishable from the uraemic intoxication of Bright's disease, or that caused by the direct introduction of urea into the blood. As, however, was pointed out by Bernard and Barreswil, so long as the urea, or the products of its metamorphosis, are discharged by the stomach or intes- tines, urremia does not take place, but that, when these channels become closed, convulsions and coma are produced, and death soon follows. (4) That the inti-oduction of urea or urine into the circulation of animals, the kidneys of which have been ablated, shortens the life of such animals, as Frerichs and others have already shown. (5) That there is reason to believe that the urine, as a whole, is more poisonous than a simple solu- tion of urea, for, in those cases in which urine was injected into the blood the amount of urea thus introduced was much smaller than that pre- viously thrown in in a pure state, and yet symptoms of as great intensity followed. (6) That urea, or the elements of the urine, as a whole, induce such a condition of the nervous system, as strongly to predispose to con- gestion and inflammation of the viscera, especially the lungs, pericardium, and spleen. (7) That urea, when directly injected into the blood, or suffered to accumulate in this fluid by extirpation of the kidneys, deranges, in some manner, the process of sanguification, so as to disturb the normal relation of proportion existing between the white and the red corpuscles, and either to hasten the decomposition of these latter or to interfere with the due removal from the blood of such as are broken down and efiete. (8) That there is no reason to suppose that, under the circumstances specified, urea undergoes conversion into carbonate of ammonia, but that, on the contrary, there is sufficient evidence to warrant the conclusion that no such pi'ocess ensues. The fact that in the foregoing experiments a larger amount of urea was generally found in the blood taken from the body after death than in that abstracted during life is, of itself, conclu- sive against any such hypothesis. Jones, Dr. Bence (St. George's Hosp.)—Siigar in Urine. Quart. Jouru, of Chem. Soc, April, vol. xiv, p. 22. Lancet, Jan. 19th, p. 61. The results obtained by the author are as follows :—(i) Lehmann's pro- cess for detecting sugar in urine by extracting the evaporated residue with absolute alcohol, and precipitating the sugar therefrom in the form of potash-sugar by means of alcoholic potash, cannot be employed when small quantities of sugar are present in large quantities of urine. (2) The process of fermentation is stopped by the residue of the urine, by much urea, and still more decidedly by oxalate of urea. (3) Half a grain of sugar in water can be detected by the alcohol produced by fermentation, and may be estimated by the carbonic acid produced; but much larger quan- tities may be overlooked in concentrated urine. (4) In decolorizing uriue for