204 IIKPOIIT ON I'H.VCTKAI, .MEDTCTNK. Beutin.—Baths of Compressed Air in the treatment of Emphysema and Jsthma. Gnz. Med. de Lyons, Feb. ist. IJrit. Med. J., March i6lh. Of ninety-two cases of long-stnnding emphysema, sixty-seven were completely cured, all the others were greatly relieved. Macakio.—On Pneumonic Paralysis. Union Med., 1859, ^0, .32. Cnnst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 201. Four cases of pneumonia were treated with emetics, leeches, and vesicants successfully, but during their convalescence were affected more or less by general paraplegia (allgemeine paraplegic). Macario believes this to have been of dynamic character. Drasche.—On Icterus in Pneumonia. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., i860. No. 23. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 201. Drasche states that in some well-marked cases biliary pigment cannot be demonstrated in the urine. The stools are rarely pale. The jaundice sometimes appears before the lung affection has declared itself, usually not till hepatization has set in. In thirty-four cases icterus was observed nineteen times. In eight of these the right lung was affected, and in five of these, again, the base, in one the whole lung, in one the apex, in one the lower lobe. In seven cases of left-sided pneumonia jaundice occurred, and in four of double pneumonia. The cause of icterus in pulmonary inflammation Drasche ascribes mostly to hepatic congestion, the return of the venous blood to the heart being delayed by the dimin- ished permeabihty of the lungs. The congested portal veins compress the adjacent biliary ducts, and so in a mechanical way give rise to jaundice. Icterus produced in this way has no especial value in prognosis. It may, however, be produced also by acute tumefaction of the mucous lining of the duodenum, and is then attended with gastric symptoms. There is yet another variety, associated with typhoid symptoms, in which the urine is fiery red, contains no bile-pigment, but albumen and fibrinous casts. Hepatization in such may not be extensive, and nothing is found to explain the appearance of jaundice, but they are more dangerous than others. Out of nineteen cases of icterode pneumonia bile-pigment was present in the urine of fourteen, and of these three only died, while of the five in which the urine contained no bile two died. Charcot.—On Chronic Pneumonia. Thesis, Paris, i860. Canst. Jahres- ber., vol. iii, p. 207. This disease may either be a sequel of an acute pneumonia, which happens most often, or it commences with insidious, obscure phenomena. In bad cases it is attended with hectic fever and uncontrollable diarrhoea, and the patients die in a state of marasmus. The duration of the disease is from two to twelve months. Its causes are very obscure, but seem to be such as give rise to general cachexia;. Gray induration, with fibroid thickening, are the anatomical changes which are most characteristic. The indurating matter is amorphous and very granular. Treatment must consist of revulsives and tonics. J^ji^t^—Medico-Chirurffical Treatment of Pleurisy. J. de M6d. et de Chir. Prat., June, i860. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. 32.