AMPUTATIOK. 259 canal. The inflammation, at first local, aftei'wards spreads, and finally involves the whole bone. Eoux recognises three degrees or periods— (i) congestion, resolution, recovery; (2) softening, amputation; (3) suppuration, death. The shot-wound is at first an accident, but with the occurrence of inflammation and reaction we have a disease which presents two phases—(«) the phlegmonous, embracing several weeks, during which the inflammation spreads in the soft parts, but con- tinues local in the bone; (b) the osteo-myelitic, extending over several months, or even a year, in the course of which the inflammation spreads in the bone, and is limited in the soft parts. "When in extensive osteo- myelitis secondary amputation is performed according to the generally accepted rules, a portion of the disease is necessarily left with the ad- ditional injury done by the saw. In order to effect a real cure, the entire diseased part should be taken away, and this, as a rule, necessitates the ex- articiUation of the whole bone affected with osteo-myelitis. The correct- ness of these views is supported by the fact that six out of eight patients died in whom amputation or resection was performed in the continuity of a bone, whilst of twenty-two secondary exarticulations all recovered. Eoux concludes with the following aphorisms :—(i) Osteo-myelitis is unavoidable after shotwounds, but in most instances gets well. (2) It commonly invades, more or less quickly, the entire bone. (3) Se- condary amputation or resection in the continuity of an injured bone is open to the risk of not removing the whole evil, and but too fre- quently leaving a part of the diseased bone. (4) To these partial operations on the primarily afl^ected bone the imperfect results which bring about the death of the patient are to be attributed; perhaps they are the principal causes of the failure of secondary amputations in general. (b) Amputations in the Upper Extremity. HvTCKTSSOif.—Statistical Seport of Am])utations at the Shoulder-joint performed in the Provincial Hospitals during the year i860. Med Times and Gaz., May 25th, p. 547, 'Fs^s.QV&ms.—Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for a Medullarij Tumour of the tipper end of the Humerus; recoveru. Lancet July 13th, p. 32. CoOTE.—Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for a severe injury inflicted by machinery. Lancet, July 20th, p. 61. J J J ^ovir-Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for a recurrent Fihroid lumow of the Arm; recovery. Lancet, July 20th, p. 61. hniCKSE^.—Disarticulation of the Shoulder-joint for extensive injtmes to the entire Arm produced by machinery; fatal result. Lancet, July 20th, p. 33. ^ ./ J Ckoskeex ^.~-0n Excision of the Tendons in Amputation of the Fore- arm at the loioer third. Dublin Med. Press, May ist, p. 301. (0) Amputations in the lower Extremity. Femw, with anchylosis of the Knee-joint; remarks on the pathology