457 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. power unimpaired. (3) Periodical delusion, with excitement, in an official, let. "8; recovery. (4) Delusion, with melancholy; temporary maniacal excitement, with attempt to commit suicide. (5) Delusion, with maniacal excitement in a mechanic, set. 39. ExscBECK—Question of responsibility in a case 0/pretended epilepsy. Oest. Ztsch., Nos. 3^ and 36. RiTTER. TFhat are the causes of the recent excessive increase of suicides, and what preventive measures ought to be applied ? Deut. Ztsch., vol. XV, part 2, and vol. xvi. part i. Canst., vol. vii, p. 15. The author's conclusions are founded on the statistics of the district of Middle Franconia, in Bavaria. During the years 1857-8, i in 145 of the deaths in the towns was self-inflicted, and i in 289 in the country. Of 100 suicides, 80 were men and 20 women; 60 per cent, accomplished their end by hanging, 17 by drowning, 11 by firearms, 7 by throwing themselves in front of locomotives, 2-8 by charcoal vapour, and only 1-4 by cut throat. The motives to the act were as follows :—In 40 per cent, of the cases it was attributed to tsedium vitse and mental disorder; in 15 per cent, to the loss of means of subsistence; in other cases to the fear of future punishment, to despair induced by bodily suffering, disappointed love, &c. HucK.—Statistics of Suicide in the Grand Buchy of Baden. Corr. Bltt. d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatr., vol. vii. No. i. Canst., vol. vii, pp. 14—16. In 439 cases in Baden (1854-56), the motives to the act of suicide were as follows :—Insanity in 106 cases, weariness of life and domestic troubles in 119 cases, bodily suffering in 38, remorse and apprehension of punish- ment in 33, disappointed love in 11, wounded honour or modesty in 8, religious enthusiasm in 2; in the remaining 112 cases the cause was unknown. Orth.—Investigation of a case of Suicide by Hanging, after swallowing shoe-nails and other bodies. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xvi, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 14—16. In this case fifty-nine fragments of nails, and several smaller bits of iron, along with a flint, seeds of Helianthus annuus, skins of beans, and sand, were found in the ileum, near the ileo-csecal valve ; a few nails were found in the large intestine. Statistics of Suicide. Corr. Bltt. d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatr., vol. vii, Nos. 17 and 18. Michel.—Two cases of Suicide by Phosphorus. Corr. Bltt. d. Wiirt. iirzt. Vereins, vol. xxx, parts 42 and 43. Erlenmeyer.—On the injurious effects of the Marriages of Relations. Corr. Blatt. d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatric, vol. vii. No. 8. Canst., vol. vii, p. 3. The author founds the conclusion that the marriages of relations are injurious on the facts that such marriages are frequently without issue (thn-teen to twenty instances per cent.) ; that the offspring are frequently deaf and dumb, and are liable to idiocy and other forms of mental defi- ciency, and that the mortality of such children is unusually great. These statements are based on the previous researches of Roell, Deray, Bobinson Howe, Rossknecht, Everts, Menifere, Persio, and Bergmann.