HEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES Ot MEDICINE. 80 which, on slinking, gnulually impart a inilkinosa to tlie whole. Tin- clear, tiltered Ihiid contaius much albumen, tliough it does not become turbid by heat. On the addition of potash or soda, however, it forms a little precipitate, preveutiblc by pepsin, and ceasing to be produced as the neutral point is reached, when heat coagulates all the remain- ing albuminous substances save one, which is precipitable by alcohol or tannin. It was found that, when insoluble, albumen is more readily converted into peptone and parapeptone than when soluble, whence, probably, the use of coagulated albumen as food. Tlie author finds that the digestion of albumen also produces a ?«ete-peptone. II. Si/ntonin, digested by artificial gastric juice (containing 2 per cent, hydrochloric acid) gives opalescence to the fluid, which, on the ad- mixture of potash or soda, precipitates the flocculent parapeptone. The filtered fluid contains syntonin, peptone, and metapeptone. The meta- peptone is precipitated by acid ulation with muriatic or acetic acid. The solution of peptone now remaining does not yield a precipitate to muriatic acid. Metapeptone is not afiected by artificial gastric juice or long boiling with dilute muriatic acid. The ^JwjY/peptone, insoluble in water, dissolves easily in acids and alkalies. Syntonin was found to yield 45 per cent, of peptone and metapeptone and 18 per cent, parapeptone. } III. Casein digested in artificial gastric juice containing i per cent, muriatic acid forms a jelly which afterwards liquefies and finally pre- cipitates dyspeptone, retaining, however, peptone, parapeptone, and meta- peptone, which are obtainable as described under syntonin. The dys- peptone is insoluble in water and alcohol, just soluble in dilute acids, and readily in dilute alkalies. Ether extracts from it a crystaUizable fat. Casein contains 78 per cent, pejjtone and metapej)tone, 2 per cent, parapeptone, and 20 per cent, dyspeptone. The latter contains i to 2 per cent. fat. By continued boiling, casein and syntonin are resolved into the same constituents aa they are by artificial digestion. • g ScHirr, M.—J^ew Inquiries on the Influence of tlie Vagus on the Functions of the Stomach. 8vo, Bern, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 188. In order completely to cut off the influence of the vagus from the stomach, the author makes an incision round the oesophagus down to the muscular coat. Dogs and rabbits may survive this operation for an indefinite period. Dysphagia exists for the fii'st fcAv days, yet digestion is not entirely interrupted, and when deglutition is per- fectly restored it again becomes quite normal. But where the vagi are divided in the neck, the contents of the stomach are often found to be neutral or faintly alkaline, even when ligature of the oesophagus prevents any admixture of saliva. It is not the kind of aliment, but probably the general condition of the animal, that determines this result. In animals which did not sufler much from dyspnu?a the contents of the stomach were usually slightly acid. The stomach is capable of secreting an alkaline fluid, for such is occasionally present after ligature of the gvdiet and pylorus. So-called alkaline indigestion (in man), therefore, is not always the result of the admixtiu*e of saliva. 1