llEPORT ON PIIACTICAL MEDICINE. 216 left venlriclu becomes distcndcil, and the impulse of the heart weakened. Tlie pulse becomes soft, full, and slow, and notably retarded in the arteries. The two aortic sounds lose in strength and purity, and the second sound is often reduplicated over the pulmonary artery. Koruer, as the result of his inquiries, denies the possibility of mere venous conj^estion giving rise to albuminuria, and attributes this solely to cardiac debility. Morbus Brightii he regards, not as an independent malady, but as a part of a general one. His treatment consists in Avithholding'liquids, and improving the tone and action of the heart and lungs. For the latter intentions he specially recommends trichloride of methyl. Hamburger.—On the Albuminuric Anasarca in Scarlet Fever. Viertel- jahrschr. f. d. prakt. Heilk. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Hamburger describes three stages of the disorder—(i) a febrile, cha- racterised by fever of an intermittent character and by rapid serous ex- travasation and infiltration ; (2) a chronic stage, in which the affection follows a slowly progressive course; (3) a period of resolution. He recommends quinine as a remarkably efficacious remedy, giving gr. iss bis die to children, and twice as much to adults. Makiano-Semmola.—On the Nature and Cause of Albuminuria. Lancet, Sept. 7th. Mariano-Semmola states that the quality of the precipitated albumen distinguishes idiopathic from symptomatic albumiui\ria, it being in the first case like white of egg, and in the second caseiform. In the latter, also, the amount is scarcely influenced by the kind of diet, in the former it is doubled by a nitrogenous and reduced to a minimum by a fari- naceous. In idiopathic albuminuria the blood, according to Jlariano- Semmola, contains an accumulation of an unassimilable, crude albumen, which simply drains off by the kidney. The organic changes in the kidney develop themselves iu a ratio proportionate to the quantity and quality of the albumen excreted and to the duration of the malady. Disturbance of the functions of the skin is regarded as the cause of albuminuria, and hydrotherapy is the best treatment. Dickinson, W. H.—On Disease of the Kidnetj accompanied by Albumi- nuria. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. Dickinson offers the following conclusions:—The smooth, mottled kidney is the result of chronic nephritis. This disease maybefal any person, the youthful being most susceptible. It results from cold, from scarlatina, or some similar cause of renal hyperoemia. It begins with marked symptoms, and usually terminates under a year. It is often temporary in its nature, or amenable to treatment. The granular kidney is the result of a degeneration which is pecuHarly apt to take place in gouty or tuber- culous persons. It is never seen except in adults, and is most frequent after the age of forty. It commences gradually, and is quite indefinite in its duration. This state of organ is irreparable. Chronic nephritis is characterised by dropsical effusion ; a great liability to inflammatory attacks, affecting the serous membranes and the lungs ; diarriicea, especially iu the later stages; pain in the loius; and, finally, coma, preceded by epileptic convulsions. The urine is scanty, often bloody, the albumen