CmCULATOUY SYSTEM. 191 the non-conduction of the second murmur to the heart's apex. The aneurismal opening into the right ventricle occurred about fourteen days before death, when he had an attack of faintness, and preecordial oppression. Pathogenesis of Chlorosis.—Loni. Med. Rev., May, 1861. An American writer advocates tlie view that chlorosis is owing to want of sugar-making action in the liver, and is to be cured by supplying in the diet the deficient aliment. Mayee, Alex.—Note to serve in the History of Rheumatism. Amer. Med. T., Aug. 34th, 1861. Mayer relates three cases, all ending fatally, with symptoms of apoplexy. No post-mortem was made. He offers the following conclusions:—(i) That muscular rheumatism may consecutively attack the heart in the muscular element and give rise to unnatural symptoms of excessive gravity. (2) That this rheumatism of the heart differs from pericarditis and endocarditis, concomitant of acute articular rheumatism, in auscultation revealing nothing abnormal except palpitations, in presuming that they throw the patient into an inexpressible anguish. (3) That under the influence of deep grief this affection of the heart predisposes probably to apoplexy by cerebral haemorrhage, which, in the cases observed by me, caused death. WiLKS, S.—Report on Pycemia and some allied affections. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vii, 1861. With regard to the nature of the disease, Wilks states his opinion that pus or its elements or germs give rise to purulent deposits or inflammatory materials which are the earlier stages of the purulent process, and in the same way as fibrin in the blood gives rise to fibrinous effusions elsewhere, or cancer-germs in the same fluid set up cancerous growths at a distance. The channel of infection is probably some small vein which has taken up the morbid matter. The effect of this matter being introduced into the blood is to cause coagulation, either in the large vessels or in the capillary system of the viscera, with congestion. This congestion passes through various stages till it terminates in suppuration or sloughing. In fatal cases death cannot always be accounted for by the morbid changes, but results probably from the effect of the blood disease on the nervous system. The lungs are the organs principally affected, often exclusively; it is only in rare cases that they escape while other parts are attacked. The heart suffers only in the worst cases; the brain very rarely. The old opinion, that the liver is especially affected in cases of injury to the cranium, is not confirmed. A firm, granular exudation may be eflused on the mucous surface of the ileum. Serous membranes are only inflamed by their contiguity to visceral foci of disease. In the more chronic cases abscess often takes place in the joints and on the surface of the body. Yellowness of the skin, amounting to actual jaundice, is not unfrequent, but is not easily accounted for. A series of fifty-five cases illustrates pyscmia following injury to the bones on amputation. Six are given of pysemia following injuiy to the cranium. The histories of twenty-one relate to external abscess, followed by pycemia. Series v contains ten