449 MEDICAL RESPONSIBILITY. whrn ten minutes elapse after the removal of tlie body from the water, without any etlbrt at respiration, it is equally so. Tiie author holds that the warm bath acta as an "immediate and powerful excitant," when pro- perly managed. He had frequently found that the patient, "immediately on being placed in the bath, gave the sob or gasp which is the precursor of respiration." Jennings.—The Treatment of Apnoea, illustrated by cases and experi- ments. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 278. The author, who has been engaged for eleven years in researches on this subject, concludes therefrom that the ready method of Dr. M. Hall is not only too complicated for general use, but that, as a mechanical means, it is inferior in efficiency to inflation of the lungs from mouth to mouth, at regular intervals, combined with the expulsion of the air betvreen each two inflations by compression of the thorax with the hands. In the resusci- tation of the drowned, Mr. Jennings' experience is decisive as regards the fatal effects of the hot bath, but in the new-born child he finds it "a ready means of maintaining warmth and the equilibrium of the circulation." For the former purpose his directions are as follows :—(i) Immediately "wipe out the mouth and nostrils, place a bundle of clothes under the shoulders, throw the head back, draw the tongue forwards, then close tho nostrils with an hand, and inflate the lungs by placing the mouth to that of the patient, and alternately compress the chest with the other. (2) At same time let an assistant strip off the wet clothes, and apply warm coverings ;" use centripetal friction of the limbs, cold affusion, and slap the chest occasionally with a Avet towel. (3) " Use galvanism, if possible, by applying one wire to the side of the neck, the other to the region of the heart. (4) After respiration has commenced aud the patient can be removed, place the feet and legs in hot water, and let the patient inhale ammonia occasionally; afterwards place him in a warm bed, and con- tinue frictions with hot bricks or bottles placed abont him to maintain warmth." Woodman. — Twins; suspended animation; success 0/ Dr. Silvester''s method of Artificial Respiration, used for half an hour. Med. Times, June 8th. MEDICAL RESPONSIBILITY. Txum^v. —Question of Medical Responsibility. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 204, A person named Hamelain preferred a criminal indictment against a well-known practitioner in Paris (Dr. Canuet), and moreover demanded damages to the amount of 10,000 francs, in respect of an inguinal tumour, which, being a hernia, it was alleged had been mistaken for an abscess! Prof. Tardieu was called upon by the court to investigate the case, which was of the following nature :—On the i^ih September, i860, Hamelain, while liftmg a weight, experienced a sharp pain in the right groin ; as he continued to exert himself, the pain increased and extended to the whole abdomen. He then took to his bed, and soon after an inguinal tumour was perceived, which in due time reddened and softened. On its beino-