DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. autlior concludes from his observations that Ijinpli-corpuscles are con- tiiuiallv produced (by division) within the capsules, thence proceeding to the central cavity, where they are taken up by the lympliatics, finally reaching the blood, and being transformed into blood-corpuscles. The involulion of the thymus depends on atrophy of the glandular sub- stance, caused by the deposition of fat on and between the acini. BoDECKEB, C.—The Composition of Human Milk. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med.,'vol. X, p. i6i. Canst., vol. i, p. 241. A specimen of healthy milk obtained a fortnight after parturition was found to contain—water 88a-2, milk-sugar 64-6, fat 31, protein matters 19, salts 3-2. The author recommends as the best substitute for human milk—8 oz. cow's milk, 2 oz. cream, 6 oz. water, and \ oz. milk- sugar. Eexkes.—On Milk. 4to, Montpellier, i860. Setschenow.—Pnewmatological Notices. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 285. Canst., vol. i, p. 240. Persuaded that a knowledge of the gaseous contents 'of secretions which are retained within the organism without exposure to the at- mospheric air will throw light on the physiology of parenchymatous respiration, the author commenced with an examination of (cow's) milk, which was drawn while the teat w^as immersed in olive oil, in order to prevent absorption of air. In two specimens he obtained the following per-centage: Free Carbonic Acid. Oxygen. Nitrogen. I 672 016 i*4i 3 S'oi o'32 i'34 Harris, Dr. J. (Savannah).—Case in loliich Milk was secreted hy Tumours in the Axillce. Amer. Journ. Dental Sc., vol. x, p. 569. Med. Times and Graz., April 13th, p. 397. A negro woman, aged thii'ty-eight, who had always enjoyed good health, and had eight children, soon after commencing the suckling of her third chUd, noticed tumours about the size of pigeons' eggs in each axilla, w'hich did not diminish after weaning. When she began suckling the fourth child they increased in size, and were accompanied by a sense of distension and hardness. After the birth of the filth child the tumours were tapped, and about a pint of a milk-like fluid was di-awn off. After the birth of tlie sixth and seventh children, they again enlarged, but were not tapped, and subsided somewhat after weaning. During the nursing of the eighth child the woman was seen by the author. The tumour in the right axilla was tapped, and about a pint of milk-like fluid was discharged, allowing a hard, lobulated structure to be felt at the base of the tumour. The tumour, after the discharge of the fluid, much resembled a flaccid mamma which had ceased to secrete milk. On puncturing the tumour on the left side, about an ounce of fluid was discharged, but as fluctuation was still perceptible, the tumour on this side was concluded to be multilocular. When the woman was last heard of, three months after the last puncture had been