KEl'Oirr ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. I 70 dency to coagulate on the part of the blood; that it does not tend to prolong the action of the heart, but rather to paralyse its movemejits, and diminish tlio duration of its contractions ; that it does not excilo respiratory cllbrts, and prevents artificial respiration being properly carried out. (3) That in cases of asphyxia where respiration has been re-excited, and is being feebly carried on, the hot bath, although in son^; instances it seems to ]\ii\o no immediate bad result, yet has a tendency to produce a fatal issue some hours after its use, by causing extreme congestion of the lungs, together with consolidation and collapse of the pulmonary tissue. _ The following practical inferences arc drawn from the above conclu- sions:—(^7) That elforts to restore animation should be made in all cases where asphyxia has not been of very prolonged duration, {bj That the prolonged use of the hot bath iu'asphyxia is not only ineffi- cacious but dangerous; and that its tem])orary use appears to be attended by no direct benefit. So far as any means similar to that of the hot bath are likely to produce respii\atory movements, the alternate dashing of hot and cold water on the body is probably the most effi- cacious, (c) That it appears safer jiractice to omit all artificial treat- ment, when respiration is going on feebly, than to make use of the hot bath, (d) That in the treatment of asphyxia all effiarts should be primarily directed to restoring or continuing the respiratory movements, and all measures tending to load the lungs or embarrass the respiration should be avoided. The author believes that ,the best method of per- forming artificial respiration we are yet acquainted with is that recom- mended by Dr. Marshall Hall. Hepwoeth, Johit.—Treatment of Asphyocia. Brit. Med. Joum., July 20th, p. 78. In this paper a case is given where tracheotomy was successfully per- formed for the relief of asphyxia dependent on a foreign body sticking in the glottis. Artificial respiration is considered by the author the sine qua non in the treatment of asphyxia. Gralvajjism is also, he thinks, of advantage. TooGOOD, .ToxATirAN.—Artificial Bes^nration. Brit. Med Joum., Peb. 9th, p. 156. The medical attendant is directed to inflate the lungs of a stillborn child or of a drowned person from his own chest, mouth to mouth. CiiristiAjS', Dr.— On the restoration of Snspenclcd Animation in Persons apparently Drowned. Lancet, Feb. 2nd, p. no. After giving Marshall Hall's method atrial in about fifteen cases, the author states that he became so satisfied of its incfliciency to restore ani- mation, and of the difficulty of properly carrying out the manipulations, that he felt himself justified in representing those facts to the committee of the Eoyal Humane Society, and in adopting the plan recommended by Dr. Silvester, which he believes in every way to be superior, inore manageable, less likely to injure the patient, will fill the chest with and expel air from it more fully, and will not force the contents of the stomach upwards and in the way of respiration. After many experiments the