REPORT ON SURGERY. 242 Van Holsb^ek.—Abscess of the Bight Iliac Fossa; escape of pus hf the Ccdcum and Anus; recoveri/. Ann. de la Soc. M^d.-Ghii-. de Bruges, Jan. and 'Feb., i860. Echo Med., No. 8, April, p. 207. Sket.—On Aldominal or Pelvic Abscess. Lancet, April aytb, p. 406. After describing at some length the Bymptoms and diagnosis of these abscesses of the iliac fossa, Skey concludes ^^ith the following remarks on their treatment:—" The indication to which the treatment in such cases clearly points is that which will most readily convert a chronic into an acute abscess. Any attempt to ' resolve' or ' discuss' these morbid deposits would be futile, and quite unworthy the advanced progress of scientific surgery. To what end would mercurial ointment, iodine, and similar agents, point ? What is their power ? Do they possess any ? And if they do, could mercurial inunctions induce the circulating system to reverse its action by taking up the morbid deposit it had previously got rid of?" " The condition is that of weakness." " All we can hope for, all that the best resources of art can achieve, is to change the chronic into an acute abscess, to advance the formation, of pus, and to compel the abscess to select that locality through which it can most readily discharge its contents on a surface of the body." Skey endeavours to effect this by improving the appetite and by a liberal supply of food, stimulants, and plenty of fresh air. The abscess shoiild be opened at the earliest moment fluid can be detected. He considers bark as the most valuable therapeutic agent in promoting suppurative action. "WiiiKS, Dr. S.—Beport on Pycemia and some allied affections. Gruy's Hosp. Eeports, vol. vii, p. 119. An exhaustive report, founded on aa analysis of 173 cases. GANGtRENE. ' Lawrence.—Mortification of the Tbot and imrt of the Leg; great general sioelling of the Thigh from effusion of blood; amputation of the Leg; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, p. 161. BuLLEN, K. St. J.—Case of Gangrene of both feet from Frostbite. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept, 14th, p. 269. Applet, W. L.—Case of Spontaneous Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. Amer. Med. Times, Jime 8th, p. 369. April I jth, 1861.—A girl, set. 6, had her arm crushed in a " see-saw." She received a compound fracture of the ulna, and dislocation of the elbow-joint. The hand and arm having become cold, the same evening warm alcohol and spirits of turpentine, with fi-ictiou and artificial heat, were employed. Next day gangrene ensued, and extended to the shoulder and over the scapula whilst Appley waited for a line of demarcation before amputating. 24th.—Nine days after the accident the mortified limb was removed three inches below the head of the humerus. 29th.—Bleeding from the axillary artery occurred, and in turning the child on her side, in order to get at the vesseJ, the remaining