448 REPORT ON I'ORENSIC MEDICINE. consequent excessive pressure of the blood column in certain parts of the capillary system. He finds that these appearances are much more fre- quent in the new-born and infants than in adult?, and concludes that although they are to be regarded as an important sign of death by suffoca- tion, no inference can be drawn froni their absence. In this respect his opinion differs entirely from that of Tardieu. W\TE-RS.—Researches on Asphyxia. Mcd.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 135, From his experiments on tiic effects produced by the hot bath in asphyxiated animals, the author concludes that in cases of asphyxia, where respiration has altogether stopped, the effects of the hot batli are to produce an accumulation of blood in the lungs and on the left side of the heart, together with a tendency to coagulate on the part of the blood. It does not tend to prolong the action of the heart, but rather to paralyse its movements and diminish the duration of its contractions. It does not excite respiratory efforts, and prevents artificial respiration from being pro- perly carried out. In cases of asphyxia where respiration lias been re-excited, and is being feebly carried on, the hot bath, though in some instances it seems to have no immediate bad result, yet has a tendency to produce a fatal issue, some hours after its use, by causing extreme con- gestion of the lungs, together with consolidation and collapse of the pulmonary tissue. Thence it is inferred that in the treatment of asphyxia the prolonged use of the bath, whether respiration has ceased or is feebly going on, is not only inefficacious but dangerous, and even its temporary use is objectionable. All our efforts should be primarily directed to restoring or continuing, as the case may be, the respiratory movements. Brodte.—Letter on the Marshall Hall Method, to the Secretary of the Royal Humane Society. Med. Times, May i8th. As regards the method to be adopted with a view to restore respiration, Sir B. Brodie expresses himself as follows:—(i) The interval during which artificial respiration can be employed is very limited. (2) If the Royal Humane Society's apparatus be at hand, and the medical man present knows how to use it, this affords by far the safest and surest method of imitating natural respiration. (3) There is great danger that the rolling and tumbling about the body, as proposed by Dr. M. Hall, would interfere with the natural process of recovery, at the same time that it is very doubt- ful whether by this method a sufficient quantity of air could be drawn into the lungs to answer any useful purpose. (4) Of the two methods, that of Dr. Silvester would be more effectual and much less calculated to do injury. Christian.—0» the restoration of Suspended Animation in persons appa- rently droivned. Lancet, Feb. 2nd. Dr. Christian's paper contains the results of an experimental inquiry into the several methods recommended in the instructions of the Humane Society and the National Life-boat Institution for the recovery of persons apparently drowned. His conclusions are as follows :—The inflation of the lungs by the method of Dr. Silvester, or by the Society's apparatus is the first remedy, and the shock of the warm bath the second; but that, after eight minute*' complete submersion, recovery is hopeless, and that