REPORT ON PllAOTICAL MEDICINE. 230 eruption. Tlie face was the part most often affected, especially when she lay clown nuicli during tlie day, but the upper and lower limbs and the clu'st have also presented the same phenomena. Venesection and local leeching had most effect in arresting the disorder. Beau.—The condition of the Nails as a Semeiological indication. Gaz. des H6pit., Aug. 25th, i86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 339. Beau draws attention to furrows which are observed running across the nails (especially of the thumbs), of persons who have recently passed through severe diseases, such as typhoid fever. The depth of the furrows indicates the violence—their length, the duration of the disease. Their distance from the matrix corresponds to the time elapsed since their formation. Warburton Begbie, J.—On Ichthyosis; with special reference to the particular forms in which it occurs. Edin, Med. Journ., July, 1861. Warburton Begbie joins with Devergie in considering that true or white ichthyosis ought to be regarded as a distinct affection, different from the so-called porcupine disease, and from brown ichthyosis. The first is always a general disease, affecting the whole skin, unattended by heats, itching, or inflammation, and characterised by a farinaceous, or actually fish scale-like appearance. Brown ichthyosis is always a partial affection ; the morbid epidermis forming a hard, warty, or horny surface, splitting irregularly on pressure being applied. It results, as well as the other variety, from a diseased action of the sebaceous glands, the exuded matter in the one case forming plates, in the other spines. On Linear Atrophy of the Skin : Purpura preceding smallpox, syphilitic keloid, general dermatitis. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vii, 1861. The first affection exactly resembles the linece gravidarum, but is observed in cases where no distention of the skin has ever existed. Tiie skin appears wasted in streaks, and replaced by a softer substance, of a dead white colour. The change occurred gradually. Haedy.—Experiments with Baths 'h Vhydrofh-e.' (Pidverizafion appara- tus.) Gaz. des H6pit., May 26th, June 5th, 12th. Canst. Jahresb,, vol. iii, p. 137. Hardy administered these baths in prurigo, pityriasis, psoriasis, eczema, and scrofulous ulcers, and speaks favourably of their action, especially in the two last-mentioned disorders. The water, medicated or not, is reduced to a spray, which fills a chamber in which the patient sits. Hebka and Mullnek.—0« Pemphigus. Spitals Zeituug, No. 3, 4. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 144. Pemphigus foliac. is a very rare but fatal disease, which begins with a single flaccid vesicle on the breast. This gradually extends at its margins, and new ones form, until at length the whole cutaneous surface is deprived of epidermis, and the patient sinks, worn to a skeleton. Majer.—On the action of Arsenic in Psoriasis Inveterata, and on its partial excretion by the iirine. Wurtemb. Med. Corrcsp. Bl., No. 13. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 14(5.