DISEASES OF WOMEN. 387 Padovani.—Puerperal Fever from Thrombosis of the Uterus. Ann. Univ., Aug. and Sept., 1861, p. 498. De Latour.—Rapid cure of Phlegmasia Alba Dolens by Collodium. L'Uuion, 7, 1861. The collodion, mixed with castor oil, was applied over the whole limb, and appeared to have a beneficial effect. CuMBERBATCH.—Case of Phlegmasia Dolens. Lancet, April 27th, 1861, P-4I3- PUERPERAL CONTCJLSIONS. Breslau (Zurich).—On Eclampsia in Child-bed. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, i860, p. 414. In a case related eclampsia occurred five days after labour; after the attack albumen was found in the urine, but not before. After the attacks ceased the albumen disappeai'ed. The convulsions set in with so-called ursemic symptoms. The author states that the facts are adverse to the theory of Frerichs and Brauu, for no unusual quantity of urea was found in the blood examined during the attack, and no carbonate of ammonia, while the quick cessation of the albuminuria was against the presence of Bright's disease. The albuminuria, he believes, was caused by the distended condition of the lower vena cava produced by the convulsions. Harper, Robert.— On three cases of Puerperal Convulsions. Lanceti June 22nd, 1861, p. 607. In the three cases the convulsions commenced respectively before labour began, during labour, and eleven hours after its completion. In the first case the patient was extensively bled, and did well. In the second the patient was not bled, and recovered. In the third leeches were employed to the head and abdomen; the patient died. The author believes that the non-employment of bleeding has become a "fashion" in this affection, and that the old treatment will, after a time, be re- turned to. Lansdown.—Chloroform for Puerperal Convulsions during Labour. Lancet, June ist, 1861, p. 544. The author relates three cases in which chloroform was used with marked benefit. LiEGARD.—On the employment of Ancdsthetics in Eclampsia and Hysteria. Gaz. des H6p., March i6th, 1861. Chloroform always prevents eclampsia when imminent, and almost always cures it when present, but it must be given immediately, and in full doses. Wilson, F. W.—On a case of Epileptic Puerperal Convulsions. Lancet, May 4th, 1861, p. 432. The case is recorded as interesting, from the fact of chloroform having exerted a marked influence in arresting the fits both during and after labour.