103 GEKERATIO' AND DEVEL0P31E>'T. ViBCHOW.—Helminthological Notices on TricMna spiralis. Virchow's Archiv, i860, pp. 330, 543. Canst., vol. i, p. 204. Recent experiments lead the author to the result formerly obtained by him, that the trichina is not allied to the trichocephalus or trichosoma. He finds that in a month after the introduction of trichinse into the stomach of the rabbit they are four lines in length, and are to be met with in the mesenteric glands, and also in the muscles, where they lie within the primitive fasciculi, and subsequently become encysted by means of condensed sarcolemma and altered contents. None are to be found in the brain, heart, lungs, liver, kidney, or blood. The presence of these parasites causes the death of the rabbits. Leuckart, R.—(i) Besearches on Tnchina spiralis. 4to, Leipzig and Heidelberg, i860. (2) The Mature Condition of TricMna spiralis. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., i860, pp. 259, 334. Canst., vol. i, p. 204. Accordmg to the author's observations, tlie trichina, which he regards as a nematoid in an early stage, attains sexual maturity two days after its entry into the alimentary canal. Tlie young pierce the intestinal wall, and, guided by the intermuscular connective tissue, reach the intei-ior of the muscular fasciculus, where they attain their full size within a fortnight. The muscular tibres become granular, and when the creature is full grown, the sarcolemma becomes condensed. Peritonitis, paralysis, and death, are frequent results of their presence in the organism. Waldenburg.— On Extravasation of Blood and Aneurism caused hy Parasites. Archiv f. Anat. u. Pliys., i860, p. 195. Canst., vol. i, p. 205. The author states that various parasites which infest the frog pierce the vessels and cause aneurisms, in which they frequently become encysted. RiCHTEB, B.—Dissertation on Favus and its Fungiis. Svo, Breslaw, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 203. The author, under Goppert and Cohn's direction, succeeded in propa- gating favus by inoculation with the oidium in rabbits and also in apples, Brassica annua, and Allium cepa, but not in birds and lizards. He remarks that the propagation of the achorion by inoculation does not prove that it forms spores in our climate, for it may be reproduced by other germinal parts. GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Serres.—Observations on tie Centripetal Development of the Vertelral Column. Original duality of the vertelral elements of the Skeleton. Comptes rendus, Aug. 26th, 1861, p. 353. 'R,o■B^v.—Note on a peculiarity in the Development of tlie superficial Fpidermic Calls of the Foetus. Journ. de la Phvs., April i85i p. 228. . ' 1 ' t Cruise, Dr. Y.n.—Case of Arrested Development of the Female Genital Organs. Dub. Quart. Journ., August, p. 21,