297 ABDOMEN. o.c flllprl wi'th serum, rupture of tlie sac; (4) rare forms li;\!^v: tS:n^-i-^ln. am .ts treatment by taxi, and herniotomy. . Le Geos Clabk, T.-Clinieal Lecture on ^^t'Tf" contraction after him; tracleotomy. Med. limes ana Ixaz., oan. lath, p. 3i' NicoLLs, ^.-Opitm in Strangulated Hernia. Dublin Med. Press, AnTcco'unt''o?-ttee cases.of [strangulated hernia reduced by the taxis after the exhibition of opium. HiLixAED, K.-Opiwn m~8U^^^ted Hernia. DubUn Med. Press, EepOTt if'a cas" of strangulated hernia reduced by the taxis after the administration of opium. Pattebsok, K.—Hernia. London Med. Eev., Jan., p. a^i- . Eeport of two cases of strangulated hernia, the first an inguinal one, the presence of which was overlooked by the medical attendant, and the patient allowed to'die ; the second a very small femoral rupture, which was successfully operated on. HuLKE, J. 'W.—Four cases of Strangulated Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 2nd, p. 115. ■ • ^ x. Two congenital scrotal hernias, where the sac was subdivided by septa, and two crural hernise, one of which was in a male. Edwaeds, a. M.—Ttuo cases of operations for Strangulated Hernia. Edin. Med. Journ., March, p. 809. In the second case the patient had undergone herniotomy more than twenty-three years previously. Strangulated Inguinal Hernia. BiEKETT, J.—Description of a case of Intro-parietal Inguinal Hernia, ivith references to cases which were probably of a similar kind. Guy's Hosp. Eep., vol. vii, p. 270. The term intra-parietal, according to the author, " implies that the peritoneal hernial sac extended into the walls of the abdomen; that it was circumscribed by the muscular and fascial coverings of that caAdty." HernijB of this kind Birkett arranges in two classes—(i) In which the sac extends upwards in front of the internal abdominal fascia, and behind the aponeurosis of the external abdominal oblique muscle, either in the direction of the crest of the ilium or towards the rectus muscle and umbilicus. (2) Where the sac extends into the inferior abdominal walls, into the iliac fossa, resting on the iliacus muscle, beneath the internal abdominal fascia, or where it passes inwards behind the horizontal ramus of the pubes to the side and front of the bladder. To a detailed description of his own case, which was one of oblique inguinal scrotal hernia, complicated with a second sac situated in the