Klil'OllT OX I'llACTlCAL MEllIClNE. but on pericardial inflanmintion affecting the ribs and ligaments, and making them to yield more readily to the pressure of effusion. Excluding the effect of roughnesses, a systolic murmur indicates insuffidency, a diastoHc murmur stenosis, of the cavity or artery to which it is referred. Intensification of the pulmonic second sound is almost indispensable to the diagnosis of mitral insufficiency. The peculiar brief pulse of aortic insufficiency may be absent when there exists at the same time stenosis of the aortic orifice or either stenosis or insufficiency of the mitral. Jakscii, a.— On the Spontmieous Cure of Diseased States of the Valves of the Heart. Prag. Vjahrschr., Ixvii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 298. With regard to the aortic valves, recovery may ensue—(i) when one only has become thickened and puckered by previous endocarditis or atheroma, the other valves becoming deeper and wider to occupy its place; (2) when all the valves are affected, two of them may adhere together by their contiguous margins, while the aortic attachment which would form a septum disappears, so that the two valves are fused into one, which closes the orifice pretty effectually ; (3) in very rare instances the altered valves are rendered capable of their function by contraction of the aortic canal in their vicinity. Clinical observation of such cases shows that the regurgitant murmur disappears more or less completely, and is replaced by a defined, dullish sound. These curative processes are scarcely to be hoped for except in early life, and require for their com- pletion months or years, as well as the most favorable circumstances on the part of the patient, A residence in the country, perfect quiet, cold applications to the chest, and infusion of digitalis, are the means advised. Three highly interesting cases of such recovery are recorded. With regard to the mitral valves it is shown that, after they have been ren- dered incompetent by disease, they frequently adapt themselves to their altered condition, so as to fulfil their function again more or less perfectly. GiKAED.—Case of Cyanosis. Gaz. des Hopit., Aug. 24th, 1861. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec. Girard records the case of a female who had uninterrupted good health till the winter of 1859, when she began to have dyspnoea and palpitations. The following winter slae got bronchitis, and died January 13th of this year. Three openings were found in the auricular septum, and the right side of the heart was hypertrophied considerably. The arteries were normal. Girard believes that the pulmonary disease, by deranging the circulation, was the essential cause of the fatal event. MiiHLTG.—Penetrating Wound of the Heart perforating the Wall of the Right Ventricle and the Literventricvlar Septum. Monit. des Sc., i860, No. 123. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 165. A man was stabbed, and died ten years after from insufficiency of the aortic valves, leading to hypertrophy and venous stasis. At the post- mortem there was found an aneurismal sac of the size of a nut, formed by the two layers of pericardium only, containing an indurated mass of fibrine, and communicating with the right ventricle. Opposite the