REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 430 OTHER VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. Ramtnculacece. Bentley.—On Actcca or Cimicifuga racemosu. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 460. The black snake-root, or bugbane, an lierbaceouB, perennial plant, is used in the western states of America as a remedy in several affections. It is imported in slices or fragments of the rhizome, which, as collected in the autumn, is most active, and somewliat resembles the root of the serpentaria (Virginian snake-root), a plant of entirely different character. It is principally used in acute rheumatism, and is spoken of as a certain remedy, its action being manifested in disappearance of the pain, and pyrexia, without either diuresis or diaphoresis. It may be given in tincture, infusion, decoction, or extract. Of the first, which is the best preparation, the dose is from 5j to 3] three or four times a day. The paper contains a minute analysis of the botanical, chemical, and pharniaco- gnostical characters of the drug. MacDonald.—Aetcen racemosu in Acute Rheumatism. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., p. 334. Draper.—On Podophyllin. Pharmac, vol. iii, 331. The resinous alcoholic extract of the rhizome of the mandrake (Podo- fhyllam pellatum), a ranunculaceous plant, indigenous in the United States, improperly called podophyllin, is used in large doses (two to four grains) as a drastic purgative. It is said to produce nausea and griping, but this may be obviated by combining it with hyoscyamus, In small doses it is used in America as a sedative in phthisis. Leguminosce, Berg.—0?i Anacahdte Wood. Vjhrsclir, f. prakt. Pharm., vol. \, part 2, p. 241. BucHNEB.—0?i the same mhject. Bayer. Aerzt. Intell. Bltt, No. 13, i86j. Hanbuuy.—On the same subject. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 407. ZiUREK.—On the same stibject. Pharm. Ztg., part 4, 1861. Seemann.—On the same subject. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 164. Walz.—0« the same subject. Verb. d. Naturh. Med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vol. ii, p. 89. Schmidt, vol. m, p. 22. The paper of Berg is devoted to the investigation of the structural characters of anacahuite wood, a drug which has been lately imported from Tampico (Mexico), and has acquired in Germany an extraordinary reputation as a remedy against phthisis. Its botanical source is unknown, but the author is led by his researches to refer it to the natural order Leguminosa:. The other papers, above enumerated, relate entirely to the chemical properties of anacahuite. Buchner found that but very small quantities of soluble matter can be extracted, either by water or alcohol, from the wood or bark. The only fact of any importance elicited by his