EEPOllT ON SUEGEUY. 288 The patient', iii a brawl, received a stab bebiud the mastoid process. The bleeding from the wound was very free, but was controlled by direct compression till the fifth day, when it recurred so profusely that IVIercer tied the common carotid artery above the omo-hyoid. The effect of this was only temporary, fresh hasmorrhages took place, and death ensued twenty-three days after the receipt of the wound, which was found at the autopsy to pass between the mastoid process and the transverse process of the atlas, and to involve the occipital artery. Lawrence.—Self-inJJicted tvound in the Throat in Delirium Tremens; lifiatxirc of the carotid; death on the fourth day. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 89. A wound with a penknife, a little above and to the right of the thyroid cartilage, producing very free bleeding, which was controlled by pressure on the common carotid. As Lawrence could not discover the bleeding vessel he tied the common carotid artery just where it is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. At the autopsy the wounded vessel could not be discovered. Wounds of the Arteries of the Upper Extremity. Krause, Dr. "W.—Traumatic Angiectasis of the left Arm. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 142. Taylor, J. M.—Traumatic Aneurism of the Brachial; ligature of the axillary artery; recovery. Dublin Med. Press, Dec. iith, p. 408. BiCKERSTETn.—Lacerated ivound of the Arm; rupture of the middle and internal coats of the hrachial artery; ligature of the artery; trismus; death. Med. Times and Graz., June 29th, p. 675. Paxcoast.—Amputation ahove the Wrist; haemorrhage from the radial artery; ligature of the hrachial. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 26th, p. 447. The interosseous artery had been tied, and the radial secured again at a higher point, in consequence of secondary hemorrhage from the stump. These measures and Monsel's salt proving insufficient, the brachial artery (which was double) was tied. Uhlenberg, Dr.—Contrihitions to the Treatment of Wounded Forearm- Arteries. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 300. Two cases of deligation of the brachial artery for puncture of the ulnar and radial arteries, with comments on the treatment of these injuries. Clement, B. A.—Wound of the Sadial Artery ; compression; secondary hcemorrhage; ligature. Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc., July, MarsdenI A.—7Fo?m<? of the Palmar Arches; recurrent haemorrhage; ligature of ulnar and radial arteries; cure. Lancet, Aug. 17tl), p. 160,