REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Those were most severely nffccted in wliom there was a microsconicallv proved increase in the colourless corpuscles of the blood. Lange.—On the theory of Semmelweis as to the cause of Puerperal Fever. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. Report of meeting German Naturalists &e. (Obstetric Section), at Spires, 1861. ' Lange's experience at Heidelberg enal)les him to confirm tlie truth of the theory in question. A great diminution in the mortality followed the adoption of preventive means suggested by this view of the case. Hoffmann.—On Puerperal Fever. Bayer. Aerzt. Int,-T31., 3, i86x. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 188. The author enumerates the arguments to be adduced respectively in favour of a " parasitic" theory of puerperal fever, of a chemical theory, of the theory which asserts the identity of puerperal fever with pyaemia. Druitt, Dr.—J case of Puerperal Fever complicated with Diphtheria in which life was saved by the Tincture of the Sesquichloride of Iron. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The patient, in an exhausted state and sinking from diarrhoea, uncon- trolled by other treatment, got well after taking three fluid ounces of the tincture in five days. The author considers much was due to the quantity of the drug administered. Martin, Prof. E.—Epidemic of Puerperal Colpitis and Endometritis. Mon. f. Geb., Sep., i860, p. 161. The epidemic occurred in the winter of 1859-60, attacked thirty-one patients, of whom eleven died. Metritis and diphtheritic colpitis were constantly observed. Imperfect contraction of the uterus; congula in uterine veins either wanting or converted into purulent masses. Pus also in lymphatics. Martin, Prof.—On Salpingitis as a cause vf Puerperal Peritonitis. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1861, p. 163. Two cases are related in which the peritonitis followed the inflammation of the tubes. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—On a case of Peritonitis caused by escape of Pus from the Fallopian Tube into the Abdominal Cavity, following on Abortion artificially induced. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. In the case related the patient died of metritis and peritonitis following artificial premature labour. The symptoms of this affection, of which this is, the author believes, the first case recorded in tiiis country, are, as follows:—At a stage when the involution of the uterus has reached a cer- tain point, the enlarged tubes may be felt; on escape of pus occurring, sudden pain follows, then fever. An account of the researches of others on the same subject precedes the account of this case. Cady, Dr.—Puerperal Perito7iitis successfully treated with large doses of Opium. Am. Med. Times, Aug. 3rd, 1861. SiDEY, Dr.—Case of Recurrent Puerperal Erysipelas. Ed. Med. Journ., July, 1861, p. 88.