INOEGANIC SUBSTANCES. 415 acid reaction, concludes that the lead it contains must enter the system in the process of digestion. With a view of determining how far the dust is soluble in the gastric juice, he took a meal while exposed to the air of the factory, and followed it by an emetic during the process of digestion. The sputa were found to contain a soluble salt of lead in considerable quan- tity. "When the meal was accompanied with acid wine, the quantity was much larger, Arsenic. Yon Veiel.—On the internal administration of Arsenic in Diseases of the Skin. Wiirtemb. Corr. Bltt., No. 24, i860. Canst., vol. v, p. 115. The author, who is in charge of a hospital for diseases of the skin, has given arsenic (in pills containing one thirtieth of a grain each of arsenious acid) in 700 cases of skin disease. He has not met with a single instance in which gastro-enteritis, chronic vomiting, tenesmus, or any of the cerebro- spinal phenomena beginning with treraorsor cramps, and ending in paralysis, have presented themselves. He, however, frequently met with those well- known symptoms of irritation of the mucous membranes which indicate the discontinuance of the drug (conjunctivitis, dryness of the throat and nose, and irritative cough, &c.). Strangury occurred in one case, and salivation in two others. In some of the patients the appetite and embonpoint increased in a marked degree, and the general health and appearance improved. Massaut.—On the therapeutic applications of Arseniate of Gold. Rev. de Ther. Med. Chir., No. 21, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 23. This preparation is obtained by mixing a solution of pure chloride of gold with arseniate of potash. The precipitate is separated by filtration and dried. It is given in pills, in doses increasing from one tenth to one third of a grain twice a day. Massart finds it useful in the advanced stages of phthisis, and in cancer, as a powerful tonic. Gehmain.—Arsenious Acid in Dyspepsia. Gaz. Hebdom., No. 7, p. 29, i860. Canst., vol. v, p. 116. Germain administered arsenious acid in pills, each containing one sixth of a grain. One pill was given daily before dinner in cases of chronic gastric catarrh characterised by anorexia, vomitings gastralgia, diarrhoea, or constipation. The results were very satisfactory; the author at- tributes the favorable action of bismuth in similar cases to its containing . arsenic. Bloxam.—On the Electrolytic Test for Arsenic {Chemical Society). Chem. News, vol. iii, p. 77. In a paper, of which an abstract is given in the 'Year Book' for i860. Prof. Bloxam showed that when arsenical compounds mixed with diluted sulphuric acid were acted upon by the current, produced from four or five cells, arseniiiretted hydrogen was liberated from the negative pole, but that arsenic acid did not respond to this test, and that the presence of mercury interfered with it. The author has now obviated these difficulties by adding a small quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen to the liquid during its electrolysis. By this means a ring of tersulphide of arsenic, followed