GBNEEAL SYSTEM. 143 HoMOLlE.—Om ilie External JEmployment of Simple Sulphate of Alumina and of Sulphate of Alumina and Zinc. Anu. de Therap., 1861, p. 288. Homolle finds the above remedies to act as modiCyiug agents, whose mode of action is intermediate between that of catheretics and caustics. The experience of fifteen years has proved to him their utihty as topical applications in various maladies, among which he specially notices angina of the throat and tonsils, and certain affections of the neck of the uterus. In ulcerated cancer these salts have a special action, arresting or modiiying its progress, acting at once in this particular instance as caustics, disin- fectants, and hfemostatics. They are often more successful than narcotics in calming the pains of cancer, and they notably retard the development of the cachexia. Mitchell, S. "W.—Ow the Treatment of BattlesnaJce Bites, with experi- mental criticisms upon the various remedies noio in use. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., March, 1861. Mitchell points out, first, various fallacies in regard to the use of antidotes of all kinds. These depend on the circumstance that the bite of the snake is by no means always effective, either no sufficient wound being made or the venom not being injected. (2) He shows that we are very liable to fallacy in judging of the value of antidotes, inasmuch as the great majority of bitten persons recover. Of fifty-seven cases reported in the journals only five died. The qualities of the venom are stated as follows : —"It is a yellow, albuminous fluid, of an acid reaction; sp. gr. 1044, and coagulated by a heat of 140° to 160°. Its toxic activity is unaffected by freezing, by acids, alkalies, alcohol, or by drying, and but little, if at all, by boiling. It contains two albuminous substances, one coagulable by boiling, the other, containing the active element of the venom, by alcohol only. The symptoms and pathological changes that occur after poisoning are described in considerable detail, and illustrated by experi- ments on animals. The efiicacy of various therapeutic measures are fully examined, and among them of Bibron's antidote. Mitchell states that only three out of eight dogs to whom it was given after the bite recovered. Iodine injection into the bitten part was, however, found to prevent the occurrence of the usual local phenomena, such as swelling, ecchymosis, haemorrhage, &c. Tannin had the same effect. The constitutional action of the venom, however, remained. The use of the ligature (intermittingly), 'incisions, the actual cautery, and free stimulation, seem to be the best means of counteracting the poison. DucHEK, A.—On Scurvy. Wien. Ztschr. Med. Jahrb,, xvii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 298. Duchek objects to Garrod's view, that the cause of scurvy is a deficiency of potash in tlie blood, the results of six examinations. He found in all these patients that the potash and soda, as well as all the constituents of the urine, diminish during the increase of the disease. The potash, how- ever, was notably less diminished than the soda. Citric Acid in Acute Rheumatism. Repert. de Pharmacie, Jan., 1861. 5s8 o. hora, day and n^ght, produced rapid improvement in forty-three out of forty-five cases.