llEPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 370 The nge of the patient was eighteen ; recovery took place. The author considers it to have been a case of "hDcmulocele extra-peritonaealis peri-uterina." Magron, Martin, and Sovui.—Case of Pevi-uterine Hematocele com- municating with the Intestine and the Bladder. Gaz. des H6i> Feb. 2nd, 1861. The patient, set. 18, had been a mother at fourteen. Tiie attack came on during menstruation, the discharge then ceasing. Death. Max. —Case of Retro-uterine Haematocele. Jouni. de Brux., June, 1861, p. 567. Gauc iiET.—Retro-uterine licBmatocele. Gaz. des Hop., 105, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 196. DISEASES OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. Turner, William.—On Separation and Transplantation of the Ovary, due to atrophy of the Broad Ligament and Fallopian Tube; and on the spontaneous separation of sub-peritoneal Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861, p. 698. The case was that of a dissecting-room subject, set. 79. One of the ovaries was found attached to, and deriving its nourishment from, the omentum and peritoneum. The ovary was separated, the author supposes, in tills way:—Tiiere were formerly adhesions between the uterus and pelvis; the ovary had then undergone enlargement, and rising out of the pelvis had become finally separated from the uterus. The ovary in ques- tion was the seat of calcareous degeneration, and the Fallopian tube on that side was atrophied and filled with a cretaceous style. In the next place, a calcareo-fibroid tumour, the size of a walnut, was foiind attached to the bladder, and connected by a thin pedicle with the anterior surface of tiie uterus. The author gives the result of his yiquiries into the history of fibrous tumours of the uterus, founded on an examination of seventeen preparations. The uterine tissue of the upper part of the organ is espe- cially liable to be the seat of these tumours ; they have a great tendency to calcareous degeneration; they have considerable vascularity, the vessels, however, lying in spaces between the more compact portions ; if a sub-peritoneal tumour be attacked by inflammation of its outer surface, it may easily become separated from the uterus. RoKlTANSKY, Prof.—On Separation of the Fallopian Tubes from the Ovaries, and on strangidation of the latter by twisting on then- axes. Allg. Wien. Ztg., 2—4, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 306. The author here records a number of cases in which various—hitherto undescribed—alterations in the relations of the tubes and ovaries had taken place. They are classed as follows :—(i) Atrophy and separation of a tube due to dragging by its ovary (three cases). (2) The same thing produced by pseudo-membranous dragging (two cases). (3) Separation of the tube and ovary due to the latter cause (seven cases). (4) Strangu- lation and separation of the ovary and tube by axial twisting (six cases).