FEACTDEES. 2G7 A paper read before the Medical Society of the State of New York, in wliicli the author shows that this method cau be successfully applied iu all fractures of long bones. YoiLLEMiEB, Dr.—Oil Fractures, uith Impaction of ilie Fnch of tlie Bones. G-az. des Hop., 137, 128, 1860. Schmidt's Jahrb.,vol. 109, No. 3, p. ,320. The author distinguishes these fractures from those where the broken ends of the bones are locked together by jagged indentations and pro- jections. Fractures with impaction occur only at the ends of some Ion" bones, and the following conditions are requisite for their occur- PgQce:—(i) The end of the long bone must be considerably larger than the body. (2) The body of the bone must consist of compact, solid, bony tissue, which runs into a thin layer towai-ds the injured eud. (3) The axis of the end of the bone must lie nearly in a line with that of the body. (4) The force causing the injury must act in the direction of the length of the bone, so that it tries to approximate the ex- tremities of the bone. This sort of fracture is most common at the lower end of the radius, where all the conditions for its production are present. The fractures of the neck of the femur and the formation of callus are lastly treated of. "WAECKEULiifG, Dr.—Cases of interesting Fractures; from tlie Surgical Clinic at Zurich. Langenbeck's Archives of Clin. Surg., vol. i, part 2, p. 467. These cases comprehend fractures of the spine, pelvis, and tarsus. O'EiELLT, Dr.—Case of Fracture disunited It/ Gout. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 183. Cooper, G. P.—Statistics of Compound Fractures at St. George's Hos- pital. Med. Times and Caz., Teb. i6th, p. 167. These comprise all the compound fractures that have been admitted into this hospital during a period of seven years, from 1852 to 1859 inclusive. Qovw^.—Clinical and Practical Treatise on Fractures in Infants. Eevised, and preceded by a Preface, by Dr. Marjolin. Paris, 1861. "Waters, \Y^.—A case of Ununited Fracture successfully treated ly Frof H. H. Smith's Apparatus. Philadelphia Med. and Surg Eep., March 9th, p. 615. This apparatus was described in the ' American Journal of Medical cciences, January, 1855. Fractu/res of the TrunJc. Ei ^ ^ ^ p. 410. . - - . Lancet, April 27th, ■Wakley, Zxm.-Fracture of the Mis, toith Emphysema; concus sion of tlie spine, and paraplegia; recovery. Lancet, Ai