REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 88 (2) After iiijectious of oil into the alimentary canul of the rabbit, even the lacteals above the embouchure of AViruuug's canal are iilled with chyle, (j) During vigorous digestion the ])ancreus ia milk-white. (4) Alter digestion it is cither lleclced witii red, or swollcji and reddened throughout. (5) Tlic juice is opalescent, viscid, and alkaline. {6) Its specific gravity was, in one case 1012, and in another 1023. (7) If the ratio between the body-weight and the pancreatic secretion of the dog be transferred to the case of a man weighing about nine stones, he would secrete from seven to eleven ounces daily. The excretion of the juice is most abundant after food, especially after liquids. Corvisart still maintains that infusions of the pancreas, when prepared with the requisite precautions (see ' Year-Book,' vol. ii, p. 84) lead to results far more trustworthy, in regard to the digestive action of the juice, than those obtained by means of fistulae. Maggiobaki, Prof, (of Eome).—Memoir on the Fmctiom of the Spleen. Comptes rendus, Feb. i8th, 1861, p. 318. The writer calls attention to the formation of fat during the fermen- tation of sugar, determined by the splenic pulp ; and to the modification of the blood in rabbits from which the spleen had been removed six months before ; the main difference being diminution of the colour and of the proportion of iron. Trom these results the author concludes that the spleen has the double function of presiding over a metamor- phosis of organic material, and of accumulating iron for the preparation of hfematin. PiiiLiPEAUx.—JSfote on the Begeneration of the Spleen. Comptes rendus, March i8th, i86i,p. 547. Sixteen months after exiiirpation of the spleen in three albino^rats, the author foimd the organ reproduced and of normal structure, though somewhat different in shape and size. LiJDWiG, 0.—On the Movement of the Lymph. Oesterr. Zeitschi*. f. prakt. Heilk., i860. No. 5. Canst., vol. i, p. 122. Having, by a ligatui-e, caused Q3dema of the upper lip (in dogs), the author found, on removing the ligature (after introducing a canula into the principal absorbent trunk of the neck), that the flow of lymph in- creased with the subsidence of the swelling. He says that ligature of the ureters often causes lymphoid oedema around the kidney. Htetl.—On a neio Method of injectin(/ Parenchymatous Lymphatic Vessels. Oest. Ztsch., No. 18. Canst., vol. i, p. 103. If a steel tube be thrust deeply into a lung, either by way of an artery, a vein, or a bronchus (say the latter), and a lancet-pointed sound be passed through it into the tissue beyond, this may be lacerated by moving the organ about. If the blood-vessels be now tied and the bronchus be injected, the mass finds its way into both the deep and superficial lymphatics. In the case of the liver, spleen, thyroid gland, and brain, this method has been equally successful. HyjiTi,.—The Origin of the Lacteals. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f prakt. Heilk., i860, vol. i. No. 20. Canst., vol. i, pp. 71, 103. Having succeeded in injecting the lacteals of the ostrich and other