205 RESPmATOUy SYSTEM. ivm contents liimself, if the effusion is moderate, with rest in bed, wnrm drinks, and restricted diet. If the case is more urgent he performs thoracentesis, which he has practised above 250 times without any disaster. . RosTAN —On Thoracentesis, its Indications, and Contra-indications in Pleurisj/. Gaz. des Hop., i860, Nos. 98, 99. Canst. J.ihresber., vol. iii, p. 215. , a- • • Rostan holds the operation advisable—(i) when the effusion is very copious, (2) when it is increasing rapidly, (3) when it has existed three or four weeks. The only centra-indication is gangrene of the lungs or pleura. GERnAKDT.—On the Position of the Diaphragm. Tubingen, t8(5o. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, p. 74. Gerhardt examines in considerable detail the various causes that affect the position of the diaphragm, and of the heart, liver, and spleen, and states twenty-two propositions respecting them. He says the position of the diaphragm depends on the elastic traction of the lungs and the tension of the abdominal organs on the one hand, and on the amount of its muscular contraction and its weighting by the adjacent organs on the other. The true upper boundary of the liver, corresponding with the most elevated position of the diaphragm, cannot be accurately determined in the living subject, but any considerable alterations in tlie above may be ascertained from the position of the lower border of the liver. Paraly- sis of the diaphragm can only raise its position, and, therefore, can in no way explain its altered position in emphysema or empyema. Gerhardt.—Observations bearing on Physical Diagnosis. Archiv f. Physiol. Heilk., N. F., vol. iii, 1859. Canst. Jaliresber., vol. ii, p. 74. Gerhardt designates as complementary portions of the thoracic space those which, during quiet breathing, are unoccupied by lung, and where the costal and parietal layers of pleura are in contact, but which, on deep inspiration and in favorable positions, are occupied by expanded lung. In the left lateral posture the liver descends more on the right than on the left, drawing down the diapliragm, and if a deep respiration be now taken, the pulmonary resonance will be distinctly recognisable on per- cussion as far down as the tenth rib in the axillary vertical line, it being presumed that the lung is healthy and free from adhesions. Deep inspi- ration alone, or position alone, will produce only half the effect. Adhe- sions may, however, by possibility, fix the lung at any part of the complementary space. According to Hamernik and Donders, the whole of the region of the heart's dulness is to be considered as a comple- mentary thoracic space. V. Zdekatjer.—On the Treatment of Pulmonary Hcemorrhage. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., xi, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 182. By means of Mntlhieu's liquid pulverizer, Zdekauer introduces dilute Tinct. Ferri Mur. xx ad Aq. gvj) with the inlialed air into the lungs. He relates five cases of grave character, in which the treatment was suc- cessful. In one, which subsequently died, an unusual amount of iron was found in the lungs.