GEXlTO-UaiNAUY OB.GANS. 809 Hospital Eeports.' Warren recommends the operation m cases of SiSous stricture, causing retention of urme where Bryant advises puncture of the rectum as the only proper treatment. Gat, J.—On Incisions foi^'^M^rr^o^crred with Dilatation. Brit. Med. Journ., June 8th, p. 603. .1, . 4. 4. The author does not attach a high value to incisions m the treatment of strictures of the urethra; he considers the knife to he only excep- tionally necessary, and gradual and methodical dilatation with the catheter most satisfactory. ^ Fj3EGUSS0\ —Frohahle OhUlemtion of the Urethra after Injury; for- cible catheterism. Med. Times and Gaz., June 39th, p. 676. PAifCOAST — 0;wc Stricture of the Urethra cured by Division; Cir- socele in the same patient; operation for radical cure of by subcu- taneous ligation; remarls. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. 2.3rd, p. 566. Vx^fCOX^i—Stricture of the Urethra, with Varicose Enlaryement of the Corpus Pampiniforme. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March pth, p. 619. This stricture, just in front of the bulb, was treated by internal urethrotomy. Paxcoast.—C'«se of Organic Stricture of the Urethra. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March i6th, p. 646. Internal urethrotomy. Three days after this operation the patient passed water in a larger stream, but a catgut bougie could not be passed beyond the obstruction. TnoMPSOX, H.—Stricture of the Urethra of twenty-two years' standing; perineal section; cure; death from disease of the liver two years later; post-mortem examination of the parts. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. liSth, p. 173. In the axis of the urethra there was a fine line, but no puckering, no scar, no narrowing. HriKE, J. W.—Case of old Stricture of the Urethra, divided through the Pcrinceum ; three years afterwards an abscess in the scar, burst by a blow; urinary fistula; nearly complete obliteration of the urethra for tliree qiiarters of an inch; operation for the re-establishment of the canal; successful result. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd, p. 200. Holt, B.—On the immediate Treatment of Stricture of the Urethra. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th, p. 397. General remarks on stricture, together with an illustrated description of the author's dilator, and the indications for its use. Jacksox, V.—Cases of Strictwe of the Urethra. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 19th, p. 405. Bryast.—Five cases of Perineal Operations on the Urethra. March 23rd, p. 303. Case I.—Contusion of the perinseum ; hasmorrhage from the urethra; ill