JOINTS. 279 rLEMiiiJfO, Chr.—Ckises of JDislocalion of the Shoulder-joint, tvith re- marks'. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April i^th, p. 113. SimIjS'GTON.—Reduction of Dislocation of the Shoulder, of four months' standing. Philadelphia Med. and Siu-g. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860, p. 348. Dislocations of the Elbow-joint. Heitzman>-, Dr. Kael.—Luxation of loth Forearms haclcioards ; reduction. Spitals. Ztg., 2, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 197. Clemext, B. a.—Lateral Dislocation of the Head of the Radius con- verted into tlie Dislocation forward and hacktvard. Arner. Journ. of Med. Sc., July, p. 43. Eessel, Dr. —Cflse of complete Luxation of the Head of the Radius hack- ward. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 10, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 62. A tall and large-boned schoolmaster, at. 40, slipped on some ice, and fell upon his extended right hand and elbow, I)ecember3 ist, 1859, and this was followed by great pain in the elbow-joint, inability to move the arm, and considerable swelling. Eeposition was attempted by a shepherd who was consulted, and cold dressings were applied. On examination, Pebruary 24th, 1860, the end of the oecranon and the inner condyle of , the humerus were found iu their proper places, but there was a consider- able swelling at the outer and back part of the joint. Supination and pro- nation were hindered. In passive rotation of the hand the projection at the back of the joint was felt to revolve, and the biceps moved with it. The forearm could not be fully extended, nor flexed beyond an angle of 100°. Eeposition was effected by traction iu the direction of the long- axis of the radius, and by pressure with the thumbs upon its bead. The forearm was flexed in order to relax the biceps. Dislocations of the Hip-joint {from external violence). I'li'iELD.— Dislocation of the Hip; manual reduction. Boston Med. and Surg. Jom-n., Jan. 31st, p. 541. Taking the knee and ankle in his hands, Pifield " flexed the thigh on the pelvis, so as almost to touch the body, bent it over towards the left ilium, rotated it outwards, gave a slight lift Avith the hand at the knee, when with an audible shock the head of the bone left the (sciatic) notch, a,nd came upon the dorsum of the ilium. He then depressed the whole limb, and with another audible shock it entered the socket." Swi>-BUHXE, Z.—Reduction of Dislocation of the Femur hj the Reid method, loith olservations upon its universal a])plication to all kinds of Dislocations of the Hip-joint. Philadelphia Med. and Sur^^. Eep., Jan. 26th, p. 453. ° Ecid's instructions arc- " to place the patient on his back—table or other convenient position for the physician. Then seize the ankle with one hand, the knee with tlic other; then flex the leg upon the thigh,