REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154. Trousskau.—On Apojilcctifovm Cerebral Congestion. L'Union Med., Jan. 17th, 22ncl, 31st, nnd Feb. ^tli. Brit. Med. Journ., March 161I1. Troiissenu lins been gradunlly led to the conclusion that in tlie cases to which this term is commonly applied there is no cerebral congestion at all, but that the phenomena are of an epileptic nature, or even allied to syn- cope. The symptoms in the cases alluded to are as follows:—A man suddenly falls down as if stricken by apoplexy, is taken up in a state of stupor, and for a quarter of an hour, or even longer, remains more or less in the same condition; or there may be sudden giddiness, loss of sight and speech, and staggering, which pass away in a few seconds or minutes. Alderson, J.—Case of Clot in the Cerebellum. Brit. Med. Journ., March 23rd. In this case there were uo symptoms except intense boring pain in the occipital region and constant bilious vomiting. Within two hours of her death she was pei'fectly sensible. The pain set in suddenly fourteen days before death. Thamhayn, 0,—Report on Tetanus, embodying the most recent Researches, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, pp. 210—234. Thamhayn has collected from various sources 778 cases, and from these he deduces inferences and conclusions as to the main points in the history of the disease. He seems to estimate highly the researches of Rokitansky and Demme as to its pathological anatomy, which he thinks explain many symptoms, though they have not revealed the cause of the disease. The zymotic view of its nature seems to him most probable, the poison being generated in the wound or in the system. In the way of treatment he finds nothing new to recommend ; in particular, curare has not, in his opinion, yet established its claim to 1)6 used as a remedy. Meadows, D.—A Case of Tetanus of nearly fourteen months' duration. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. Meadows's patient was a strong fisherman, set. 36, who had been kicked on the back of the neck during a quarrel about two months before the symptoms began. No trace of any injury was visible. Sedative treatment, which was of much avail for some time, lost its effect, and he died in a paroxysm. The brain was sound, there were several spots of effused blood on the cord, and a flattened clot, not recent, about the size of a sixpence, was found on the front of its cervical portion, opposite the fifth vertebra. Flechner, a. E.—Three Cases of Tetanus. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 13, 15, Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 46. In these fatal cases Flechner found in the spinal cord those new growths of connective tissue described by Demme and Rokitansky {vide 'Year-book' for i860). The lateral and anterior parts of the cord were chief seat of the deposit. Trousseau.—On Tetanilla. Gaz. des Hfipit., No. 44. Canst. Jahresb.. vol. iii, p. 49.