135 GENERAIv SYSTEM. Nine persons, after being tattooed by a discharged soldier, had, after au interval of six to fourteen Aveeks, cliaracteristic symptoms of syphilitic infection on the same part, followed by those of constitutional syphihs. The local affection was the indurated chancre, the general consulted of sore tliroat, eruptions, enlargement of the lymphatic glands, condylo- mata, &c. MuLLEB, C.—On the Influence of Mercurial Treatment of Syphilitic Parents on their Offspring. Wien. Med, Wochenschr., i, 1861. Muller affirms that mercurial treatment is in no wise prejudicial, but the contrary, even when carried on during pregnancy. In eleven cases recorded by the author the children begotten after the treatment were healthy at birth, and remained so. Pacchiotti.—Syphilis conveyed hy the Vaccine Lymph to forty-six Chil- dren. Gaz. dell. Assoc. Med., Oct. 20th, 1861. Lancet, Nov. x6th. G. C—, set. II months, was vaccinated, being in good health, with lymph contained in a tube sent from Acqui. Ten days after, 46 children were vaccinated from G. C—, and ten days later 17 more from one of the 46. Of thefir3t47, including G. C—, 39 became affected with syphilis, and of the 17 seven. At the time of the report 7 had died, 3 were ia danger, and 14 recovering under antisyphilitic treatment. Pacchiotti warns against using lymph contaminated with pus or blood, and advises careful inquiry as to the source of the lymph. Barensprung, v.—i2e/3or^/7-om the Section and Clinic for Syphilitic Patients. Ann. d. Berl. Char., ix, i, i860. According to Barensprung's experience, the proportion of cases of con-' stitutional syphilis to those of chancre, has greatly diminished since mer- curial treatment has been discontinued, viz., 180: 114. Barensprung adopts Bassereau's, Clerc's, and Ricord's view as to the non-syphilitic nature of the soft chancre. With regard to the primary syphilitic ulcer, he differs wholly from Ricord, stating (i) that the indurated chancre is not the cause, but actually the consequence of constitutional infection ; (2) it does not appear until four weeks after infection ; (3) the induration precedes the ulcer; (4) persons who are once syphilized are incapable of fresh in- fection. The commencement of the indurated chancre is not a pustule, but a small, low nodule, which ulcerates by forming a thin, soft scab on its surface. When it heals its cicatrix, after some months, quite disappears. It does not secrete pus. The induration of the inguinal glands is of the same character, inapt to suppurate. A soft-chancre poison can be inocu- lated on the individual or on anjr person syphilized previously or not, that of the indurated cannot. Soft chancres have a tendency to multiply themselves by infecting adjacent excoriations, hard chancres remain single. The latter are always followed by constitutional syphilis, the former never, except in the not very frequent case where syphilitic poison and soft- chancre poison are communicated simultaneously. This may happen, just as a gonorrhoea and a hard chancre may result from the same coitus. With regard to treatment, the soft chancre is to be dealt with as a mere local affair, the indurated requires general remedies, and is only worsened by cauterization. As to the contagiousness of secondary sypliilis, Btiren-