A'ASCULAU SYSTEir. 35 Fio. 1. the ventricular systole the valves are pressed down into the ventricles and lie flat against the inner walls, and the elastic tissue is put on the stretch. Then, during diastole, as the blood flows into the ventricles, the weight of the valves is diminished, and so the elasticity of the stretched elastic membrane is permitted to come into play. This con- traction of the elastic tissue causes the closure of the valves during the first stage referred to. (4) Exactly the same disposition of parts occurs in the semilunar valves, with this necessary difference—that the elastic layer is spread over their ventricular surface. The object is here mani- festly the same as in the former case, namely, to assist in drawing the valves away from the arterial walls, so as to put them in a position of being readily brought together at the instant the ventricular systole ceases. At the end of the paper, page 49, Dr. Broadbent gives an account of the structure of the valves of the heart corresponding to the above. Halfoed, Dr. Geobge B.—On the Time and Manner of Closure of the Aunculo-ventricular Valves. Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, The author says, there are two things necessary to the closure of these valves, viz., the shutting down of the semilunar valves and the auricular contraction. When the auricle is about to inject the ventricle, the latter is empty and con- tracted, with its distal or ven- triculo-arterial valves firmly shut dowTi by the pi-essure of the blood upon their upper surfaces. Immediately the auricle contracts, its contained blood passes into (distending and lengthening) the ventricle; the force which it transmits not being sufficient to over- come the arterial pressure and Aveight of blood upon the upper or arterial surface of the semilunar valves, is ex- pended in distending the ven- tricle and closing the auriculo- ventricular valve, which then forms one of the walls of the ventricle (seefig. i.) To this succeeds the ventricular con- traction, the auriculo-ventri- cular valve, being already closed, now becomes tense, the pressure in the ventricle over- comes that in the artery, and „?!!P; l -Bfck view of the heart; auricles cm away. Tlie tlie semilunarvalves are Raised, ^^"^^^ri^^^^^^ That the above is correct is " "''"^^'""'"''''^■c.an'lll'cnutral valve dosed. proved aa follows :-If we cut away the auricle and clear out the