KEFOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 360 SPECIAL DISEASES. UTEllUS.—CONGENITAL DEFECTS, CiiulSE, Dr. F. U. — Case of Arrested Development of the Female Genital Organs. Dubl. Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861, p. 21. The subject of this case was a girl, set. 16, wlio died of measles. Externally the body was that of a well-developed woman ; the nymplise vestibule, and orifice of urethra natural ; the ovaries well developed. The vagina was absent; the only trace of the uterus was a tliickenii.g of the peritoneum lining the recto-vesical pouch, situated at the convergence of two cords which were the representatives of the Fallopian tubes, imper- vious. Round ligaments absent. The author concludes that the arrest of development occurred before the end of the third month, that the Wolffian body was the blighted organ, and more especially its excreting duct. GiNTRAC.—Congenital Absence of Uterus. Journ. de Bord., Jan., 1861. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 186. The absence of the uterus was ascertained post mortem. The patient, set. 18, had no vagina, the ovaries were present, also the breasts. The clitoris was very large. RoKiTANSKY, Prof.—Second case of Atresia of the left half of a Uterus Bicornis. Zt. d. Ges. d. Aerzte z. Wien, 31, i860. VEESIONS, DISPLACEMENTS, ETC. AvELiNG, Dr.—Historical Notes on Displacement of the Utiimpregnated Uterus as a cause of Displacement of the Gravid Organ. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The object of this paper is to show that the ^istence of malposition of the uterus, as a cause of displacement of tlie gravid uterus, was known to and pointed out by Morgagni and others. Massmann.—On the Treatment of recent Flexions of the Uterus by means of the Uterine Sound. Mon. f. Geb., June, 1861, p. 436. The difficulty of curing old cases of flexion renders it necessary that the disease should be treated as early as possible. The flexion usually occurs after labour or abortion. The author recommends that the moment it is detected the uterine sound be used to reduce the dislocation. In four cases the sound was thus employed, used once in each case; rest and the horizontal posture completed the cure. The flexion prevents the due invo- lution of the uterus after delivery. Keillee, Dr.—Clinical Report on the Diseases of Women, with ob- servatio?is. Ed. Med. Journ., Jan., 1861, p. 618. Twelve cases are here recorded in which the operation for prolapsus uteri resulting from perineal lacerations, &c., was performed. All the cases were cured. ScHUH, Prof.—Complete Prolapsus of the Uterus and Vagina in a Virgin. Wiener Med.-Halle, i860, 13. Schmidt, vol, iii, p. 187.