REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 883 DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILD-DED. GENERAL PATHOLOGY. M'Clin TOCK, Dr.—Hemarks on the Semeiological Value of the Pulse in Child-bed. Dubl. Quart. Journ., May, 1861, p. 257. The author points out those cases which form exceptions to tlie general rule that, when the pulse is not above 80, the patient is going on favorably, and that a pulse of 100 or upwards indicates danger. Where ergot has been giveu in quantity, the pulse is less frequent by ten or twelve beats. In the early stage of metritis, occasionally, the pulse ex- hibits no advance in frequency. It is sometimes lowered by an ap- proaching rigor. In pyaemia, although rapidity of pulse is constant, the pulse sometimes falls temporarily very low from extreme exhaustion. With reference to cases where the pulse is rapid, and yet the patient is not dangerously ill, the author mentions three classes of cases ; those in which the acceleration is—i, transient; 2, temporary; 3, permanent. Temporary rapidity is often due to sleeplessnes or improper use of stimu- lants. Rapidity of more permanent character is noticed after hsemorrhagic losses, inordinate use of tea, soreness of the nipples ; sometimes, when there is valvular disease of the heart; from mental disturbances and other causes. Webtheimer, Max.—On the Physiological Relations of the Lochial Se- cretions. Yirch. Arch., 1861, 21, p. 314. In eighteen cases the lochial secretion was examined from day to day microscopically, chemically, and otherwise. The results of the observa- tions made are here related. At first the lochial secretion consists of blood with loose clots; after the first day begins an exudation of serous nature, mixed with vaginal mucus and blood, the lochia rubra; or whitish red, the lochia serosa ; the first of the two lasts two or three days, the second, until the third, fourth, or even fifth days. After the third day the secretion contains many flakes, has a peculiar smell, and an alkaline reaction. From the fifth to the seventh or eighth day the secretion is still in part serous. Afterwards it becomes a greenish yellow, white or grayish, and its reaction is neutral or acid. The peculiar smell is almost constant after the fourth or fifth day. Cylindrical epithelium was not detected, con- trary to Scherer's statement. The trichomonas vaginalis occasionally present. HuTER, V.— On Prolapsus of the Uterus in Pregnant Women and during Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Sep., i860, p. 186, and Oct., p. 259. Prolapsus may occur at the early part of pregnancy, then spontaneously righting itself or requiring artificial assistance. It may occur in the latter half of pregnancy, or it may occur during labour. Of sixty-nine cases of prolapsus of the gravid uterus, ten were in primiparse and twenty-seven ia multiparse. In fourteen cases the prolapsus first occurred during labour; in eight of these, however, there had been prolapsus before pregnancy took place. In eight cases premature delivery took place, and in two death resulted from incarceration of the uterus, the result of the prolapsus.