307 GEXITO-ITEINAUY ORGANS. time after tliis, wlien he came under Tliompson's care, the urethra was found filled vnth chalky fragments. Each piece had a reddish mside, and rough, phosphatic coat. A foreign body was detected in the bladder with the sound, but precise information of its size and character could not be obtained, in consequence of the absence of an audible sound and the extreme irritability of the organ. A quantity of softish, gritty, tenacious material was removed by median lithotomy, evidently con- sisting of the sealing-wax mingled with phosphates. Heete, H. p.—Three cases of Catheter broken in the Bladder, and removed b/the Zithotnte. Brit. Med. Joum., July 20th, p. 59. Tnoaipsojr, H.—Recently observed facts relative to the Pathology of the Prostate. Brit. Med. Journ., June 22nd, p. 653 ; 29th, p. 681; July 6th., p. 4; 13th, p. 29. Thompson shows, from an analysis of a large number of cases, that hypertrophy of this organ exists in about 34 per cent, of men at and above sixty years of age, and that it produces marked symptoms in about 15 or 16 per cent., but that under favorable hygienic conditions and careful medical supervision it does not necessarily shorten life. He had never seen hypertrophy at so early a period as fifty years of age, and considers that enlargement before this age is unquestionably due to chronic inflammation. Cancerous tumoui'S are extremely rare, but benign ones very common. Simple tumours are most commonly found in the lateral lobes. They are either imbedded in the substance of the gland, the tissue of which they resemble, or lie just beneath its capsule, or are outlying. They are generally, but not always, associated with hypertrophy of the organ. It is important to know that they may encroach upon the urethra and obstruct the flow of urine, without the presence of enlargement being detectable by rectal exploration. Out- gi'owths stand between isolated tumours and general hypertrophy; the typical example is the so-called enlarged " middle lobe." He recognises six forms of atrophy:—(i) The atrophy of exhausting general disease. (2) The atrophy of old age. (3) The atrophy caused by pressure. (4) The atrophy caused by disease in the prostate itself. (5) The congenital atrophy. Chronic inflammation, wliether uncomplicated or secondary to disease of the bladder or urethra, is of frequent occurrence. When there is tenderness of the prostate and pretty constant pain in the perinaeum, Thompson blisters the perinajum. Calculi and Foreign Bodies introduced into the Urethra. Boss, J. J.— Cases of Calculus in the Urethra. Dublin Hosp. Q-az., May 1st, p. 129. Tatum.—Calculus in the Urethra of a Male Child; successful removal. Lancet, April 13th, p. 861. "Waklet, J.—Calculus impacted in the Urethra of a Female Infant, causing retention of urinie. Lancet, April 13th, p. 340. 'SjlScok^t:.—Removal of a small Calculus from the Urethra. Philadel- phia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 23rd, p. 685.