llEPORT ON SUUGEllY. 272 EsMAECH, Dr.—JDeformUij of the Ler/, consequent on hadhj-united Frac- ture of both Sones, cured lij Osleotomij. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, p. 271. The patient a little girl, a)t. ,3J. The fracture took place about six weeks after birth, and was unrecognised. On the front of the leg there \yere two considerable prominences, the upper caused by the projection of the broken end of the tibia, at an angle of 125° three and one eighth inches below the lower border of the patella ; the lower, three and one eighth inches lower down, caused by the overlapping of the fibula, at an angle of 110°. As the refracture of the two bones could hardly have been effected at the same time, in both places, Esmarck cut out a small wedge of bone from the site of the faulty nnion, and secured the cut bony surfaces in perfect appo- sition with wires passed through drill-holes. The child made an ex- cellent recovery. TowN-SEXD, M. "W.— Ununited Fracture of the Tibia, successfully treated. Amer. Med. Times, March 9th, p. 161. " The tibia was bowed outwards ten inches from the axis of the limb, and projected anteriorly one and a half inch." A large quantity of callus had formed between the tibia and fibula. Townsend cut out nine sixteenths of the fibula at the angle, and drilled the 'callus and the ends of the broken tibia in several places, tiU the parts were so weakened that he was able in the next few days to bring the limb straight. Two and half months afterwards the fracture had firmly united. Meaciiam, J. G.—Ba^nd union of the Tibia and Fibula in an individual ninety years of aye. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 6. " At the end of four weeks union was perfect." Cook.—Fracture of the Tibia; Delirimn Tremens ; treatment by large doses of opium; recovei'y. Med. Times and Gaz., March 23rd, P- 303- Ure.—Hudden Fradure of the Leg, the result of former scorbutic dis- ease; recovery, uith union of the broken bones. Lancet, Jan. 19th, P- 59- Rupture of Tendons. Mason, R. 0.—Rupture of the Tendons of the Sectus Femoris Muscle. Amer. Med. Times, April 6th, p. 226. Adams, J.—On a case of Rupture of the Tendons of both Recti Fe- moris. Lancet, Sept. 7th, p. 227. The patient was sixty-three years old. The rupture occurred close to the patella. Perfect coaptation of the ends was efiected by raising the heels on a pillow, and no retentive apparatus was necessary. Perfect union took place. Adams figures a contrivance by the aid of which the patient could raise himself in bed.