OTHEU ATIGETABLE PRODUCTS. 435 A charlatan administered to a child, cet. 8, three pills containing lobelia, cloves, and capsicum. As the medical witnesses were unable to say that the child's death was caused by the medicine, the prisoner was acquitted of the charge of manslaughter. Mr. Justice Wightman directed the jury that, in the case of a licensed physician or surgeon and in that of a person acting as such without a licence, there was no difference. lu either case, if a party having a competent degree of skill and knowledge, makes an accidental mistake in his treatment of a patient through which death ensues, he is not thereby guilty of manslaughter. Urticaceee. FhOiNMuller.—Hemp; with special reference to its power of pro- ducing sleep. Prag. Vjhrschr., vol. Ixv, pp. loa—139. Tiie author records the results of the administration of Cannabis indica in 1000 cases. He has given it in alcoholic extract, powder, haschisch, and purified churrus, and he considers the first-mentioned form the best. He finds that it produces a more natural sleep than any other narcotic, and that its action is not attended with any unfavorable after-effects. He recommends it particularly in cases in which opium has failed, to which drug he, however, admits that it is inferior in certainty of action. GraminecB. FiLHOii and Baillet.—On the action of the seeds of Lolium temulentuin on Rabbits and Dogs. Journ. de Chera. M(^d., 4 &€v., vol. vii, p. 395. The seeds were gathered during harvest, and given in large doses. In the rabbits no effects were observable, but in the dogs the action of the poison was manifested by somnolence, tremor (most marked in the pos- terior parts of the body), spasmodic contractions of the extremities, neck, and face, restlessness, and uncertainty of gait; the legs were stretched out laterally in standing, as if to enlarge the basis of support. The bruised seeds are more active than the alcoholic extract. The aqueous distillate was almost inert. The symptoms in dogs passed off in a few hours. Filices. ViNKE.—On the therapeutical applications of Penghawar. Extracted from Med. Ztg. Russlands in Wittstein's V.-jhrschft., vol. ix, p. 285. The author details fourteen cases in which this substance (which is a most powerful styptic), was successfully employed. Penghawar consists of the brown hairs ox 2^alece which cover the young fronds of certain exotic ferns, particularly the Cibotium Cumingii. Its styptic power depends entirely on the fact that the hairs are composed of innumerable, extremely minute, jointed tubes, endowed with extraordinary capillarity. By virtue of this fact they have the power of depriving the blood of its water, and of thus determining its rapid coagulation. A similar substance obtained from a Java fern (Alsophila lurida) is used for the same purpose under the name Pakoe-kidang.