DISEASES OF WOMEN. 365 CoGHLAN, Dr.—0?i Dtjsmenorrhoea and Sterilily. Med. Times and Gaz., June ist, 2861, p. 573. , . . . c p . • *■ e The author advises the treatment by incision of cases ot constriction ot the cervix uteri. He describes a probe-pointed metrotome which he has successfully employed for this purpose. The edges of the incision made are kept apart by a piece of sheet lead rolled in form of a tube. AMENOEEHCEA. Simpson, Prof.—Clinical Lecture on Super-involution of the Uterus and Amenorrhosa. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 9th, Feb. i6th, and March 3oih, 1861, pp. 137, 163, 3215. The term super-involution of the uterus is used to designate that con- dition where the disintegrating process set up after delivery goes on to such an excessive degree as to reduce the organ to a size below the normal dimensions. The uterus is smaller and usually also more friable than it should be, and it is an occasional cause of amenorrhcea. Other causes of anienorrhcea are then considered—congenital malformation of the genera- tive organs, retarded menstruation, premature cessation of the menses, constitutional afi'ections, diseases of the organs of generation themselves. The semeiology of this disease is next considered. In addition to those symptoms more usually recognized, the author describes a peculiar form of dyspnoea—'"asthma uterinum" — as occasionally associated with amenorrhcea. Simpson, Prof.—On the Treatment of Amenorrhcea. Med. Times and Gaz., May iSth and June 15th, 1861, pp. 515 and 621. The author considers seriatim the symptomatic, the constitutional, and the specific treatment of amenorrhcea. Under the latter head are enume- rated emmenagogues, of which iron in the form of syrup of the perphos- phate is most recommended ; external applications, as cupping, leeches, baths; injections into the rectum or vagina. The local treatment is next discussed. This comprises applications of local emmenagogues, as pessa- ries, medicated or otherwise, to the vagina; applications to the interior of the uterus, as nitrate of silver to the cervix or interior of the body of the uterus; dry cupping of the interior of the uterus by a peculiar instru- ment; the wearing of intra-uterine pessaries composed of two metals, copper and zinc ; galvanic pessaries ; and the use of electricity and galva- nism in the ordinary form. Lastly, the author alludes to tlie treatment of amenorrhcea dependent on an undersized uterus, for the relief of which intra-uterine pessaries are recommended. RlZET.—On Iodine as an Hmmenagogue. Gaz. Hebd., Jan. 2';th, 1861. Three cases related in which iodine, internally absorbed, produced men- struation. Baillot.—New facts in relation to the employment of Apiol in the treat- ment of Amenorrhcea and Dysmenorrhoea. Bull, de Ther., 1861 vof. I, p. 217. In four cases this drug was very advantageously employed.