REPOET ON lIIDIVIFEttY, ETC. Pollock, T)r.—Difficult Position of the Heads in Twin Labour. Obst. Traus., vol. iii. Wilson, Dr. J. G.—Ihscription of a French Instrument for effectiuy re- duction or rejwsition of the Umbilical Funis when prolapsed, viilh cases illustrative of its sxiccessftd application. GJasg. Med. Journ., April, 1861. The instrument consists of two finely polished M'halebone rods, one quite straight, one ending in a hook, the two so adjusted as to glide parnllel to each other; movement of one rod on the other limited to one inch. The funis is placed on the hook, and by pushing the straight rod the hook is converted into a ring, and the reposition then effected. After reposition the funis is liberated from the hook byan obvious manoeuvre. Including the handle, it measures eighteen and a quarter inches. Two cases are related in which it was used with advantage. DISEASES, MALFOEMATIONSj ETC., OF THE CHILD, IMPEDING LABOUK. Heoker.— On Dilatation of the Foetal Bladder as a cause of impedi- ment to Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. Report of Meeting of German Naturalists, &c. (Obstetric section), at Spires, 1861. Hecker had a case in which the urinary bladder formed a tumour which was punctured before the child could be delivered. He found the urethra impermeable. abnormal conditions of the placenta, FCETAL APPENDAGES, ETC. Read, Dr.—Placenta Prcevia; its history and treatment. Svo, Phila- delphia, J. B. Lippincott and Co., 1861, pp. 340. This work is an analysis of all the known recorded facts relating to the liistory and treatment of placenta prsevia. After discussing the history of the subject, and comparing the accounts qf authors as to its mode of production, the question of treatment is considered. In order to arrive at a proper conclusion on this point the author brings together in a tabular form the results obtained by different methods of treatment; original documents, it is stated, have always been consulted in framing these tables. Table i includes 52 cases where the placenta was spon- taneously expelled and the child born by unassisted uterine contractions. Table 2 includes 26 cases of spontaneous separation of the placenta, with artificial delivery of the child. Table 3 contains 31 cases of artilicial separation of the placenta, with natural delivery of the child. Table 4, "ji cases in which both placenta and child were artificially delivered. Table 5 includes 123 cases where the placenta was partially detached, and natural delivery followed. In Table 6 are 557 cases where partial detachment of the placenta was performed, but resort to artificial delivery was necessary. Table 7 includes 39 cases in which the pla- centa was perforated and the child variously delivered. Table S con- tains those cases in which the mother died undelivered. In an appeudi.v numerous other less perfectly recorded cases under each of these heads are placed. Copious analyses of the tables themselves are given. Ergot, galvanism, bleeding, &c., &c., are each separately discussed.