105 GENEIJATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Bicarbonate of magnesia o'S30S gvaias. Sulpliato of potash 0-0822 „ Sulphate of soda 7-9688 „ Sulphate of magnesia 4-7810 „ Nitrate of soda 0-0048 „ Chloride of sodium 06982 „ Chloride of lithium 0-0189 „ Sulphate of lime 10-1571 „ Silica 0-0234 „ Alumina 0-0019 „ Sulphuretted hydrogen 0-0004 „ Arsenious acid ...... 0-0002 Water 7622-8208 „ In the cases of mal-developmcnfc from a deficiencj' of lime for the forma- tion of the skeleton of the foetus, the waters are supposed to act hy supplying it. CuELiN&, T. B.— Undeveloped Testes from an Idiot. Path. Soe. Trans., P- ^43- A young man, jet. 19, of weak intellect and diminutive stature, died in tlie asylum at Earlswood, of general tuberculosi.s. The external organs of generation were not more developed than those of a boy of three years of age, and he had no hair on the pubes or in the axillaj, whilst the hair on his head was of a light-brown colour, and curly, like t!ie hair of a negro. The right testicle was found in the abdomen, two inches from the external ring. It weighed only twenty grains, the epidid^^mis being nearly as large as the body of the gland. The left testicle was in the scrotum, and, though much larger than the right, weighed only thirty-seven grains. There were no adhesions and no marks of disease about the organs. The glandular structure resembled that in the testicles of an infant, the tubuli being inseparable. The cerebellum weighed five ounces and a half. The fornix was softened, the ventricles contained serum, and the cineri- tious matter of the cerebrum was pale, the hemispheres were unsym- metrical. B07D, Dr. EoBEET (Somerset Lunatic Asylum).—Tables oftlie Weights of the Human JBody and the Internal Organs in the Sane and Insane ofhoth sexes at various ages. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 43, p. 124. Among the poor of the parish of Marylebone—(i) the average weight of the males was greatest at from seventy to eighty years of age. (2) The mean weight of the brain at all periods of life was greatest in the male. (3) The highest average weight of the brain in both sexes was from fourteen to twenty years. (4) The abdominal organs were generally heavier in the male than in the female. (5) The mean weight of the left kidney was generally greater than the right. The general results obtained from an examination of the insane gave— (x) a preponderance of six pounds to the weight of the insane male, and eight pounds to the weight of the insane female over that of the sane adults dying at the same period of life. (2) The average weight of the riglit cerebral hemisphere is less than the left, both in the male and female. (The author says that it is a singular fact, confirmed by the examination of nearly 200 cases at St. Marylebone, in which the hemispheres were