REPORT ON SURGERY. 208 anterior abdominal wall, near tlie crest of the ilium, Birkett appends accounts of three other cases where the sac with its contents had been inislied upwards by the taxis through the inguinal canal (which was found empty at the operation), and was found lying upon the outer surface of the peritoneum. He next cites some cases of intermuscular hernia, published by Luke, 'London Med. Graz.,' March, 1850, p. 458, with others from German periodicals, and concludes with practical remarks on the operations necessary in cases of this sort. Billroth, Dr. K.—A case of simultaneous external and internal Strangulation of the Boioel; hernio-lapa/rotomy. Archiv fur Klin. Chir., vol. i, pai-t i, p. 485. A large scrotal hernia, containing several loops of small intestine and the caecum, which was strongly blown up with gas and quite irre- ducible, hanging from a strong cord-like mesocsecum. All manipulation failing to expel the gas from the caecum, its replacement being impos- sible, the gut was punctured, the gas let oif, and a ligature placed round the small hole. Though collapsed, the gut was stiU not properly irreducible. The incision in the abdominal walls, which had been pro- longed to three inches, was closed. Death followed six hours after- wards. At the post-mortem examination the obstacle was found to be a double twist of the bowel. CuELiira and Htjtchikson.—Inguinal Hernia, with undescended Testis; partial reduction ; operatioii; recovery. Lancet, March 9th, p. 236. The stricture was formed by the neck of the sac, which had been thrust up within the internal ring by the taxis before the patient was admitted into the hospital. The testis, enclosed in the lower part of the sac, was just outside the external ring. Paitcoast.—Hernia; non-descent of the right Testicle. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Peb. 9th, p. 507. Short, explanatory remarks on this condition. ErEESB, B. P.—Strangulated Inguinal Hernia successfully treated hy an eiiema of Tobacco Decoction. Amer. Joum. of Med. Sc., April, p. 602. Datle, O. M.—Strangulated Inguinal Hernia successfully treated ly la/rge doses ofOpitm. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., j). 293. BoWMATsr.—Beduction of Hernia assisted hy placing tlie patient on his head. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2nd, p. 117. A large inguinal Iiernia. The taxis assisted by chloroform had been ineffectual, but on inverting the patient, and bringing tlie pelvis into a vertical position, compression of the tumoui' with the hands for half a minute sufficed to reduce it to three fourths of its bulk, but the whole of its contents were not returnable till the patient had been again placed in the recumbent posture. Power, H.—A case of Strangulated Oblique Inquinal Henm, treated by inverting the patient. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 287.