VASCULAR SYSTE^r. 21 air by boiling at a low pressure, and by subsequent exhaustion, absorbed 16 to 20 i)er°cent. of its volume of oxygen. Nitrogen was found to be imbibed in the proportion of ,3 or 4 per cent. The blood of a dog, destroyed by closure of the trachea, yielded no oxygen, while the amount of free carbonic acid was increased, though not in proportion to the diminution of the oxygen ; the combined carbonic acid and the nitrogen were in the proportion found in common arterial blood. In three analyses of the gases contained in milk, the author foinid that the quantity of oxygen -was far less than that of nitrogen. EoBix, C.—Bescarclipn on some PecuUarUies in the Strnotwe of the a>j)iUai-ics of the Brain. Journ. de la Physiol. Ed. Med. Journ., April, p. 947. Dr. Gilclirist gives the following resume of the author's researches. Eobin says that there are three varieties of capillary blood-vessels :—ist. Capillaries from looth to 300th of a millimetre in size, consisting of a single tunic, homogeneous, Avith ovoid nuclei, the long axis parallel to that of vessel. 2d; Capillaries from 300th to 700th of a millimetre in size, consisting of two coats,—one continuous and identical with that of the first variety, the other consisting of fibre-cells with nuclei, whose long axis is ti-ansverse to that of the vessel. 3d. Capillaries from 600th to 1500th of a millimetre in size, presenting the coats of the second variety, and a third external coat formed of fibrils of areolar tissue, running longitudinally, parallel and undulating. This variety of vessel is visible to the naked eye. Eobin has made a particiilar study of the fibre-cells of the second variety, and of these he gives a most minute description. He also describes a structure never before noticed by histologists. Around a certain number of the capillaries of the brain, spinal cord, and pia mater, is a delicate adventitious tunic or envelope, consisting of a homo- geneous or slightly striated substance. This envelope may be found surrounding all the three varieties of vessels described. The space between this sheath and the wall of the capillaiy contains a colourless liquid, and a number of spherical free nuclei, which vary much in quan- tity at different points. In subjects beyond forty or forty-five years of age, masses of fat-granules are always found in this space. Very large gi'ains of amorphous ha?matosin ai'e also found amongst the spherical nuclei. Blood-globules he has never seen, and he supposes the hrematosine to be an exudation from the capillary walls, in the substance of which it may sometimes be observed. This peculiar envelope Eobin has observed in the vessels of the white and gi'ay substance only; it does not exist in all vessels, but is in general not diflicult to find. The structure is most minutely described, but no hypothesis as to its use or as to the function of the nuclei is offered. Sub.— On the Disirihtition of the deep femoral Artery. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 1S60, No. i. Canst., vol. i, p. loi. The following are the results of an examination of the profunda and its branches in one hundred bodies:—(i) The normal arrangement existed in 124 limbs, bilaterally in 42 subjects, and unilaterally in 40. Here the vessel arose from one to two inches below Poupart's ligament.