433 OTHEU VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. nppointcnl to inqniiT iiiio the qMesiioi. \\ licili. r or not tlie cniplox tneiit of cvclanu-ii in catcliiiig H-h is iijiiriotis to llie lit-alili ot ilie coiisiitiu-r. In fliillifraiice of l\m inquiry. cxiJennients were niiide l)y Vnlpian on froa;.', salamanders, and fisli. In a very weaic solution of cyclannne frogs die'^in about twenty hours. The first effect observed is tlie loss ot the transparency of the skin, particularly of tlie legs and eyelids ; this is followed by intense injection, first of the webs and conjunctivae, and eventually of tlie whole integument. Death is not preceded by convulsion. Similar effects are produced in fish. From these and other experiments the nnllior concludes that the poisonous action of cyclamen is owing to its direct effict on the iiite<:nment and mucous membrane of the respi- ratory organs, but that it has no direct action on the nervous system. Fish poisoned with cyclamen pass rapidly into putrefaction, and are on this account unfit for food. Solanacece. ScHiiOFF.—On the Taft-root of Persia. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vii, Nos. 27, 28, 29. Sclimidt, vol. 11, p. 162. This root is known in Persia under the name of Risch-e-Taft. Its botanical origin has been hitherto uncertain. From experiments on rabbits with the alcoholic extract, the author was led to infer that it is rel'erable to that class of vegetable poisons which is characterised by the combination of delirium and stupor with dilatation of the pupils (bella- donna, stramonium, hyoscyamus). This inference received unexpected confirmation in consequence of the curiosity of a servant of Dr. Schroff, who idly swallowed a grain of the extract, and although he eventually recovered, exhibited the action of the drug in an intense degree for several hours. From the symptoms observed in his case, it appears that the extract of taft-root is much more active than that of hyoscyamus or even of belladonna, It produces remarkable acceleration of the pulse (which about two hours after taking the poison had risen to 120), great mental excitement (the patient was restless and anxious, and frequently cried out, as if affected by electric shocks), and constant tendency to movement. In all these respects it resembles more closely datura or atropa than hyoscyamus, but in others its characters appear to lean rather to those of the latter, so that it is placed by iSchroff in an intermediate position. By a laborious comparison of the root with herbarium speci- mens, he was able to identify it wiih the root of a species of Scopolia, a genus which, as regards its botanical characters, occupies a corresponding intermediate position between the genera above referred to. The taft- root yields 20 per cent, of alcoholic extract, or five times as much as hyoscyamus, so that the powder is itself a very powerful drug. For therapeutical purposes, Schroff is of opinion i-i2th grain might be given as a small dose, i-6th grain as a moderate, or a grain as a full dose. Of the extract the doses would be five times as small. Poispning h-ij the berries of Solatium Pseudo-capsicum. Bull, de Th^r. vol Ixi, p. 334. ■'