380 REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. The author's method consists in separation by dissection of tiie margins of the fistula all round, so aa to 8e])arate the septum into two portions, before applying the sutures. For sutures thread is used, double, and tightened over a piece of vulcanized india-rubber cord on each side. Tiie object of the separation of the septum is to procure a large raw surface. Ten cases of operation by the author are related; of these, three were cured by his own method, two were under treatment, in one partial closure effected, in one failure after Bozeman's operation had been per- formed : in two others, cure almost, but not quite, complete. Jackson, Edward.—On a Cure of Vesico-vayinal Fistula. Lancet, June 15th, 1861, p. ^Sj. The fistula lay deep, iron-wire sutures and leaden clamps were used. The wound sloughed. A second operation was also ineffectual. After a third operation, the aperture having at that time become much smaller, a cure was obtained. Lane, James.—On Plastic Operations on the Vagina and Ferinceum ; illustrated by cases. Lancet, Jan. 12th, 1861, p. 37. Mr. Lane records the histories of five cases of vesico-vaginal, recto- vaginal, and urethro-vaginal fistula, adding practical remarks upon each. FOUCHER.—Two Fistulce, one Utero-vesico-vaginal, the other Fesico- urethi-o-vaginal, in one Patient; cure by the American method {Boze- man's). L'Un., April, 1861, p. 6. JoBEUT (de Lamballe).— Vesico-utero-vuginul Fistula, cured in fifteen days. Gaz. des Hop., April a3rd, 1861. James, John.—Successful Operation for the cure of Vesico-vaginal Fistula with Iron-wire Suture. Lancet, Oct. 19th, 1861, p. 371. Merger Alder, Dr. J.—Three cases of Vesico-vaginal Fistula success- fully treated by Sims's method. Am. J. Med. Sc., July, 1861, P- 58. Leishman, Dr.—Cases of Vesico-uterine Fistula ; with an analysis of a calculus found in the os uteri. Glasg. Med. Journ., Oct., 1861, p. 314. After remarking on the great rarity of the lesion, and alludmg to cases recorded by others, the author relates a case in which a few days after a very severe labour incontinence of urine was noted. Lying on the side the patient could retain the urine for a quarter of an hour, but when on the back it came away incessantly. The fistulous opening remained for a considerable time, but at the end of a year the incontinence had quite ceased, a natural cure having resulted. A case is then related in ■which Dr. J. G. Wilson removed a calculus from the os uteri which im- peded delivery. There had been incontinence previously, and the calculus, on analysis, was found to be composed chiefly of ammoniaco-magnesiaa phosphate and phosphate of lime.