421 ALKALOIDS. Throe hours after the second dose lier condition was as follows :—" Coun- tenance pale and exsangtiine; pupils widely dilated ; the muscular systena was so weak and relaxed that she could barely stand or walk ; the pulse and the heart's action were very slow and faint, and the respiration kboured." She further complained of lipothymia, drowsiness, and loud noises, as if of rumbling wheels, in her ears, and experienced numbness and tingling of the tongue, hands, tips of the fingers and soles of the feet. On the administration of emetics and stimulants she rapidly recovered. It thus appears that symptoms of poisoning were produced by not more than four minims of Fleming's tincture. The author adds that his patient was neither sensitive nor hysterical, and free from organic disease. Atthill.—Case of Poisoning by Aconite. Dublin Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 193. Half an ounce of a liniment containing half a drachm of tincture of aconite to an ounce of Lin. Saponis was taken by mistake by an adult. He was first seen two hours afterwards. He then complained of prostra- tion and a feeling of dry heat and tightness of the skin, accompanied by the sensation of numbness and tingling. The pulse was at first inter- mitting, and subsequently became more and more irregular and feeble, until it was no longer susceptible. These symptoms were interrupted by several paroxysms of convulsions (the patient had been subject to epileptic fits). After several hours he gradually rallied. The treatment consisted in emetics, stimulants, and artificial respiration by Silvester's method. Stuachax.—Case of accidental Poisoning ly Fletning's Tincture of Aconite. Edinb. Med. Journ., Sept., p. 259. Poisoning by Aconite. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 486; vol. iii, p. 199. Kay.—Poisoning by Aconite. Lancet, Aug. 17th. Morphia. NxvisoN.—On the antagonistic eff^ect of Opium and Quinine. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 377. From clinical observations Dr. Nivison concludes that, in many inflam- matory aflections, large doses of opium may be safely given in combination with quinine (with a view to its sedative action) without danger; that its tendency to reduce the secretions of the liver and kidneys, and to diminish respiration, is thereby counteracted ; that the after-effects are averted ; that in cases of extreme exhaustion the combination of opium with full doses of quinine is of great value; that many person.s, unable to take opium alone from constitutional idiosyncrasy, are able to do so when it is combined with quinine; and lastly, that many of the occasional in- conveniences of the administration of quinine are obviated by combining it with opium. Lefort.—Chemical and Toxicological Studies on Morphia ; ivilh obser- vations on its transmission in the animal organism. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xl, p. 97. This paper contains a single new fact—namely, that the brown-yellow colour produced by iodic acid in solutions of morphia is not due to the 28