DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Jenneii, Dr.—On Tuberculosis, and the evidences of the deposit or for- mation of Tulercle in the Child. Med. Times and Gaz., July 6th, Oct. 261I1, 1861. The eye is the great inlet of knowledge as regards the presence of tuberculosis in the child ; its characteristic features are best marked when the tuberculosis is transmitted hereditarily. The child is lovely, tall, limbs straight and thin, skin delicate and transparent, eyes bright, pupils large, lashes long; the child is forward, intelligent, clever, lives rapidly, cuts its teeth early, runs alone soon ; the bones are thin, the cartilages weak and at the end of the long bones deficient in thickness, the ribs are firmer than in hcaltli, contrasting thus remarkably with the condition present in rickets. The lungs are small, the vesicles some of them dilated. The thorax presents three varieties in shape, the long, the long and narrow, and the pigeon-breasted form. The latter is the effect of repeated catarrhs affecting the lower lobes of the lungs of a child whose lungs are small, and the driving forwards of the sternum by the indrawing of the lower ribs. The characteristic of tuberculosis in the child is this, that it affects a large number of organs, though there may be a small deposit only in each. The deposit may occur rapidly or slowly. In acute cases, the diagnosis rests mainly on irregular febrile disturbance, i. e. the high but variable temperature lasting for some time, and the steady loss of flesh, with the absence of local lesion of a grave kind. The gravity of the case is often overlooked till too late. The acute form is frequently recovered from. The subject of chronic tuberculization is next considered. Cutaneous and subcutaneous tubercles are important as evidence of a profound consti- tutional taint; the bones are frequently affected in these cases. The lym- phatic glands arc more often than any other organs the seat of tubercle in the child. The diagnosis of enlargement of lymphatic glands due to tubercle from other kinds of enlargement is very fully indicated by the author, who describes the characters of tubercular enlargement, first as regards the superficial lymphatic glands, and secondly as regards the in- ternal lymphatic glands, the bronchial and the mesenteric. Tubercular disease of the mesenteric glands is very rarely the cause of a large ab- domen in the child ; children under three years of age have rarely large deposits of tubercle in the mesenteric glands, while they have often an ex- ceedingly large abdomen. The only positive evidence of tubercle in this position is detection by the hand of the large glands. The tumour is to be distinguished from fsecal accumulations by its seat, shape, by the odour, colour and consistence of faeces passed, and by the effect of enemata. Diarrhoea is frequently present in mesenteric tuberculosis; there may be ascites, and there is generally emaciation. Tuberculosis of the peritoneum is next described, the symptoms of which are usually those of chronic peritonitis—the abdomen is distended, hard, resonant, painful and tender, there are emaciation, digestive derangement, constipation or diarrhoea. After a time, when adhesions occur, a solid, massy sensation is communi- cated, and there is fluctuation. A peculiar expression of face, a worn, anxious look, and a care in movement, are characteristic symptoms. The diagnosis of bronchial tuberculosis is often obscure. Tubular breathing, distension of veins of neck, slight oedema of face, cough, spasmodic breathing, noisy inspirations like those of hooping-cough or laryngismus