BEPOET ON SUllGBUY. 254 cleaning, a small elastic catheter should be introduced through the outer tube into the windpipe, to prevent the serious obstacle to breath- ing caused by the accumulation of inspissated mucus at the end of the tube. Edwards, A. M.—Notes wpon Traclieotomy, ivitJi cases; to winch are added two cases of Hernia. Edin. Med. Journ., March, p. 799. After reviewing the discrepant opinions which prevail respecting the relative advantages of laryngotomy and tracheotomy, and the part of the trachea which should be opened, Edwards states it as his experience that laryngotomy is seldom intentionally performed. He prefers to open the trachea low in the neck, giving as his reason that in this situ- ation the opening is far from the disease and from the sensitive mucous membrane of the larynx. He begins his incision over the upper margin of the sternum, and regulates its length by the thickness of the neck and probable depth of the trachea. He recommends the lips of the tracheal wound to be held apart, with the handle of the scalpel turned half round, so as to allow the patient to breathe a few times before the insertion of the canula. He objects to chloroform wOiere tracheotomy is done for dyspnoea untU after the insertion of the tube, when he finds a few drops on a handkerchief very useful in allaying troublesome paroxysms of cough. The danger of the surgeon sucking out the tube when obstructed with the tracheal secretions is enforced by his own case and that of his assistant, both having had serious inflammation of their own throats by doing this. If there is proper attendance the tube should be taken out when sputa come through the rima glottidis, or the exudation softens, but if the patient is at a distance from assistance great caution is necessary. The reproduction of the tracheal cartilage is illustrated by a case, and a drawing is given of a case of stricture of the oesophagus with laryngeal abscess, where tracheotomy was performed, and where the patient died some days afterwards from haemorrhage. At the autopsy it was found that the internal jugular vein had been opened by the abscess. HuTcnixsois'.—Statistical Beport of cases of Tracheotomy occiirring in Provincial Hospitals dtvrinr/ the year i860. Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th, p. 598. This comprises five cases, four of which were fatal—one, oedema of - glottis; three, pressure on the larynx from without by tumours; and one, tubercular ulceration. Bronchotomy in Diphtheria. HiLLiEB, T.—On Tracheotomy and Laryngotomy in Diphtheria. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd, p. 194. A report of tAvo cases. Bronchotomy in various Discuses and Accidents accompanied iy (Edema of the Larynx. HiLLES, M. 'W.—(Edema of the Larynxc. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 169. For this Hilles suggests tlie free exposure of the interior of this organ, by slitting up the thryroid and perhaps also the cricoid cartilage along the median line.