467 FOOD. From the extensive series of analyses made under M. Boudet's direction, of water taken in May, June, and August, from tlie Seine, at various parts of its course, it appears that the water wliich arrives at Ivry (fourteen miles above Paris) in a state of perfect purity is first contaminated by the confluence of tlie Marne, and in its progress through Paris becomes more and more impure, until it attains its greatest impurity below Asnieres (nine miles below Paris), at which place the river receives the great niter- cepting sewer which drains the northern half of the metropolis. The analyses show that the water at St. Ouen, below Asnieres, contains twenty- eight times as much nitrogenous impurity as at Ivry. The bearing of these results on the quality of the supply of drinking water to Paris lies in the fact that that supply is obtained, not from the river above the capital, as in London, but from various points below the town (Chaillot, Neuilly, Auteuil, and Asniferes), and not in midstream, but close to the banks. In May, 1861, the source of supply was changed from imme- diately below the mouth of the sewer at Asnieres to a little above it; although this has effected a considerable improvement in the water, it may be readily understood that it is still very inferior. BusSY.—Report to the " Comite d'Hyg. Publique" on the water of the reservoirs of Montmartre and Passy. 8vo, Paris, 1861. The tenor of this report is similar to that of the other. Crookks.—On the detection of Alum in Bread. Chem. News, vol. iii, P- ^°7-v The author, after pointing out the error which has so often arisen in the ordinary process from the calculation of the precipitate of phosphates of lime, magnesia, and alumina, finally obtained, as if it were all alumina, proceeds to describe a new method, which, although somewhat tedious, appears to be free from the risk of confounding other things with alumina. Its main peculiarity consists in the separation of the whole of the phosphoric acid at an early stage of the process, in combination with peroxide of tin, by the addition of metallic tin and nitric acid to the residue obtained by treating the carbonized bread with sulphuric acid, adding water, filtering, and evaporating the filtrate to dryness. The reader is referred to the paper for details. Ballaud.—On the Adulteration of Butter with Animal Fats. Chemical News, vol. iv, p. 283. The author finds that in London, butter is frequently adulterated with beef fat in the form of dripping, especially for exportation. He founds the detection of this impurity on a minute examination of the colour, consistence, odour, and other physical and organoleptical characters exhibited by adulterated as compared with pure butter, during the process of washing, drying, and pressing. The most important of these characters are based on the taste of the washed and dried butter, and on the fact that pure butter, when stirred rapidly in a beaker with boihng water, is divided into minute drops, which give a finely cellular appearance to the layer which they form at the surface, and a granulated or sago-like appearance to the cake formed on cooling.