UEPOUT on toxicology and materia inSDICA. 434 Scrophulariacea. HoMOLLE.—0)1 the j)hysiolo(/ical testing of certain constitucits of Di- gitalis. Arch. G6n., 5 s^r., vol. xviii, p. 5, July, 1861. Homolle's researches are directed to the question whether there exists in digitalis another principle which has a demonstrably diuretic action, on account of which it would be preferable to administer the plant itself or its pharmaceutical preparations rather than pure digitalis. The author de- termined by physiological tests the actions of the several products obtained in the treatment of the drug by various solvents, without recourse to chemical reagents. His results show the impossibility of a complete separation of the principles contained in digitalis by this method. His experiments were made on four products, of which No. i consists of the residue insoluble in weak alcohol; No. 2 is taken up by ether from the alcoholic solution, and consists mainly of a nauseous, fetid and acid prin- ciple, resembling the digitalic acid of Kosmann ; No. 3 is the alcoholic solution after treatment with ether, and consists principally of digitaliu ; No. 4 is obtained by treating the result of evaporating No. 3 with chloi-o- form. The author made experiments with these substances on himself and on animals. After 3 grammes (about 46 grains) of No. i the effects pro- duced were very slight, no greater than those which follow one milligramme of digitalin. 45 centigrammes of No. 2 (about 71 grains) were taken fasting, in two doses ; until eight hours had elapsed there were no symptoms; there were then extreme nausea, faintness, and violent vomiting, which was repeated at intervals of about fifteen minutes for thirty hours. On the following day the pulse was retarded, and fell by the fourth day to 48. There was also impairment of vision, with inability to look steadily s\t bright objects. Urine was passed freely, but the contractility of the bladder was diminished, so that external pressure was needed in the act of micturition. The author had pulsation of the abdominal aorta, anxiety, epigastric constriction, and cough with pneumonic expectoration, most of which were attributed by him to the continuous vomiting; they lasted for a week. M. Homolle, took, a year later, 2 centigrammes (about i-3rd grain) of No. 3. In forty hours he took 2 centigrammes more, and a third dose eight hours after. The symptoms resembled those of digitalin entirely. No. 4 was found to be similar in its action to No. 3, but much more active. When inserted into the cellular tissue of frogs, it was fatal in seventy minutes, death being preceded by gradual retardation of the pulse from 72 to 12. The author concludes that digitalis contains no principle of therapeutical value excepting digitalin; that the greater tolerance of the stomach of those preparations which are obtained by extraction with water is explained by the absence in such preparations of the nauseating, acrid principle (digitalic acid) contained in No. 3 ; that the diuretic and sedative actions of digitalis depend entirely on digitalin, but that its nauseating effect, and probably the impairment of vision it produces, are referable to digitalic acid. Lobeliacece. Charge of Manslaughter agaitist a " Medical JBotanist." Pbarm,, vol. iii, p. 146.