172 nEPOIlT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. degree of denientin, but there yet remnin some delirious conceptions, some ideas of grandeur; (9) these patients being wholly demented, there is also lesion of the free will; (10) if they commit a more or less grave offence, they ought to be considered as irresponsible; (11) they are not competent either to administer their own affairs or to make a will; (12) for their own sakes and for the interests of their family, it is needful that they should be interdicted; (13) sequestration, even in an asylum, is a measure favorable to their health. Harrington Tuke.—On General Paralysis. Journ. of Mental Sc., July, 1861. Tuke distinguishes the mental symptoms into three stages—(i) that of excitement, with loss of self-control and reasoning power; (2) absolute delusion, with or without violence; and, lastly, complete insensibility. The leading characteristic of this insanity is the sense of beatitude and contentment. The paralysis is peculiar by its slow progress and its first affecting the tongue. It rarely supervenes before the thirtieth or later than the sixtieth year of life. He combats Esquirol's opinion, that general paralysis is only a complication of insanity, and not a special disease. Baillarger (L'Union, 113, i860). Moreau (Bull, de I'Acad., xxvi, Dec, i860; Jan., 1861).—Hypochondriacal Belusions the forerunners of General Paralysis. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 356. The delusions to which Baillarger adverts are very various, but some of them are so frequent that they may be regarded as specific. Such are those of annihilation, complete alteration, internal obstruction, being dead, blind, unable to speak, see, or swallow, &c. These may precede the paralysis for years. Moreau does not think Baillarger's views are as yet established by evidence, but that they are very probable. He considers that there is an intimate connection between the'special delusions, as signs of a general and deep-rooted morbid state, and the general paralysis. Brierre de Boismont, a.—On Deterioration of the Morals and Mind in the prodromal period of General Paralysis. Ann. d'Hygiene, 2 ser., xiv, Oct., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 357. These changes, according to Brierre de Boismont, are chiefly charac- terised by gi"eat irritability, signs of passion and impatience, which may be foreign to the natural disposition or an exaggeration of it. Strange expressions are di'opped, and there is a remarkable volatility of thought. This state is sometimes replaced by apathy and dulness, which unfit the person for any serious work. Such persons often give themselves up to dissipation, commit acts of dishonesty, and render themselves liable to prosecution. They are easily taken in by sharpers, and bring their families to ruin. The early recognition of these tendencies, and the right appreciation of them, is of great importance. Legrand dv Saulle.—On the Special Forms of Delirium which supervene in General Paralysis. Arch. Gc'u6rales, Dec, i860. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., April, 1861. Legrand du Saullc aflirms that grandiose delirium can be demonstrated