349 OBSTETRICAL OPEUATIONS. Where tlie patient's strengtli Lad not failed, success was very frequent. Only three were cured when there was great prostration. The length of the 'labour previous to operation is of very great importance as causing mortality. Four fifths die where the patient is prostrated, three fourths are cured under opposite conditions. The cases in which gastrotomy have been performed for ruptured uterus and escape of foetus afford re- markable results of cure. Lastly, the Cesarean section is compared with other operations, and shown to be much more favorable in its results than many of them. Baiiker, Dr. FoRUYCE.—On the Ccesarean Section. Am. Med. Times, Jan. 26th, 1861. WiNCKEL.—Results of thirteen Operations of Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, i860, p. 401. In nineteen years the author has operated thirteen times, in eight cases for osteo-malakia, in five for rachitis. The frequency of osteo-ma- lakia in tlie neighbourhood (Gummersbach) is stated to be due to the want of cleanliness, to poor living, to want of attention after labour. In four cases the abdomen only was incised, rupture of the uterus having occurred. This occurred twice in one woman, who previously had been delivered by the CfEsarean section. Two of these three women were saved. The results of the thirteen operations are eight recoveries and five deaths. Of the recoveries, three belong to the same individual. The author attri- butes his success to the simplicity of his treatment. The wound is closed very carefully with large and small sutures. Protrusion of the intestines he prevents by directing an assistant to hold the upper angle of the in- cision in the uterus in apposition with the angle of the external'wound. Chloroform given in all cases. WiNCKEL.—Cases of Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., 1861, p. 27. Two cases are related in which the pelvis was affected with osteo-malakia The first patient died two days after the operation ; in the second case the issue was fortunate for both mother and child. Vambiancui and Alimonta.—Case of Ccesarean Operation. Gaz. Med. Ital. Lombard., Dec. 24th, i860. The child was saved ; the mother died on the sixth day. This was a case of osteo-malakia. YLxns.-Cesarean Section. Wien. Ztg., 8, 1861. Schmidt vol no p. 191. ' ' This case was successful both for mother and child. Chloroform not used. BlRNBAUM. Ccesarean Section in a case of Oblique Distortion of the lelvis mlh occlusion of the Uterus; result unfavorable. Mon f Geb., Dec, i860, p. 402. The child was saved. The mother died four days after the operation. Newtox, Dr. J. J.-Case of Ccesarean Section. New Orleans Mprl nn l Surg. Journ. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Dec. ist, 1861 ^' ''"^ The patient^was a negress ; the mother and child both survived.