itEPORT ON midwifehy, etc. 384 PUEEPERAL FEVEU, PUERPERAL PERITONITIS, PULEGMASIA DOLENS, PUERPERAL THROMBOSIS, ETC. Semmelaveis.—The Etiology, Nature, and Prophylaxis of Child-bed Fever. 8vo, Pesth, 1861, pp. 1539. This elftboratc work contains data collected from all available sources respecting puerperal fever, the statistics and mortality of lying-in hos- pitals, &c. The author's opinion is that puerperal fever arises from in- troduction of putrescent matter into the system, the origin of the infecting materies being various. All the facts observed by the author go to prove that the disease is produced by infection from putrescent matters, intro- duced by means of the finger into the genital passages or conveyed by the air of the chamber. In Pesth the disease was produced by handling of the genital passages of parturient women after performance of surgical operations ; two epidemics which occurred later were produced by use of towels unwashed and impregnated with blood and discharges. The author considers the disease to be a " resorption-fever," the infection being in by far the majority of cases introduced from without, and that in ouly a very few cases is the individual herself the producer of the infecting material. Child-bed fever is thus a variety of pyaemia. To a more accurate appre- ciation of this fact the author attributes the more favorable results obtained in the lying-in hospitals in England than in those on the Continent. The placing a large number of lying-in women in one chamber is in the highest degree favorable to the production of the puerperal miasma. West, Dr. Uvedale.—Illustrations ofPuerperal Diseases. Glasg. Med. Jours., April, July, October, 1861, and Jan., 1862. (Published separately, 8vo, London, Churchill.) The author first alludes to the view expressed by Cazeaux, that in puerperal fevers we have a disease presenting itself with the most varied lesions, that we usually have with it an ansejnic and even uraemic con- dition present, and that it is in the blood that we must seek the point de depart of puerperal diseases. A large number of cases, seventy-one in all, which occurred under the author's observation are then related in detail. These are arranged in groups, and are intended to illustrate to some extent, the truth of the position taken up by Cazeaux. The first group described are cases of cerebral excitement and disorders of mind in the puerperal state regarded as a variety of puerperal fever. Other groups are,—illus- trations of the pyogenic diathesis; salutary elimination of a materies morbi; diarrhoea as a variety of puerperal fever; puerperal fever regarded as a sthenic disease, &c. The groups so arranged melt insensibly one into the other, although each are distinguished by certain salient features, and hence the proof of the oneness of the disease. But although nearly all puerperal febrile aflfections are one disease, the author emphatically insists on the fact that the various manifestations of that disease require V rying and shifting methods of treatment, the main distinction to be made being that between the sthenic and the asthenic varieties of them. Fox, Dr. Tilbury.—Puerperal Fever. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author here relates the history of puerperal fever as it was observed