REPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEHIA MEDICA. 408 PiETRA Santa, Brian.—O/t the Pulverization of the Eaux Bonnes. L'Union, vol. x, pp. 312 nntl 490. Sales-Gikons.—On the Pulverization of Mineral Waters, and the criticisms thereupon. L'Union, vol. x, p. 490. Anthelmintics. CoURBON.—Ok tJie Tcenifages of Abyssinia. Bull, de Thdr., vol. Ix, p. 352. The author, after describing the source, botanical characters, and mode of administration of kousso, notices seven other anthelmintics wliich are less generally known. Of these, the two most important are designated mesenna and mitcha mitcho. Mesenna is the bark of a leguminous plant resenibling an acacia. It is said to contain an alkaloid. As an antlielmintic, it is taken in doses of about two ounces three hours before the first meal. It is said to create no nausea, and to be painless in its operation; the entozoon is discharged "in a broken or pounded state " in each stool for some days after. Mitcha mitcho is the bulb of a species of Oxalis, the powder of which is much used, and in the same dose and manner. It appears to be inferior to the former, which, according to Courbon, is the most certain tsenifuge known. INOEGAlflC SUBSTANCES. Sulphur. Hebra.—On the application of Sulphur in Diseases of the Skin. Allg. Wien. Ztg., Nos. 47, 48, 1860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 204. Hebra employs sulphur externally only. He holds that it acts thera- peutically by inducing hypersemia of the alfected integument, stimulating the growth of epidermis, and thus accelerating the metamorphosis of tissue in the part; and that this action is excited more energetically by alkaline sulphurets and sulphur contaminated with sulphurous acid, selenium, or arsenic, than by pure sulphur, which he uses only in cases in which a feebly stimulant action is indicated. In scabies he has ob- tained no good results, either by fumigations or by baths. He strongly recommends Vlemingkx's solution of sulphuret of calcium, as destroying the acarus scabies with greater rapidity and no less certainty than sulphur ointment. In chronic psoriasis it is recommended that the same solution should be rubbed in energetically until the scales are removed and tlie surface begins to bleed. The patient is then to be placed in a bath, and the affected parts dressed with simple ointment. Two other affections of the skin in which Vlemingkx's solution is found useful, are pityriasis versicolor and ichthyosis. It is prepared by boiling two pounds of sulphur with half its weight of unslaked lime in a pint of water until it is reduced by evaporation to twelve ounces. The hquid is then filtered, after which it is ready for use. Phosphorus. Blondlot.—On the toxicological detection of Phosphorus by the colour of the flame. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xl, p. 25. Three years ago it was shown by Dussard that phosphuretted hydrogen, as disengaged when phosphorus or any oxygen compound thereof, ex-