INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. 409 cepting phosphoric acid, is introduced into Marsh's apparatus, may be recognised by the fact that the flame, when deflected by a porcelain plate, acquires an emerald-green colour. M. Blondlot finds that although this reaction is very characteristic and of extraordinary delicacy, it is entirely prevented by the presence of animal matters such as exist in the contents of the stomach and intestines. In order to overcome this difficulty, he. first introduces the liquids to be tested into a large hydrogen apparatus, passing the gas through a solution of nitrate of silver; the brown pre- cipitate (containing phosphide of silver) is then introduced into a second apparatus of smaller dimensions, and yields the reaction with certainty. Mascarel.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. L'Union, vol. xii, p. 201. A miller's wife, eet. 45, while at work sent a servant boy to the cellar for a draught of rape, a common drink among the country people near Poitiers. She at once recognised the acridity of the liquid and the taste of phosphorus. In half an hour vomiting supervened, with intense pain. On the arrival of her husband he observed that the vomited matters were phosphorescent. She was first seen by M. Mascarel, at eleven on the following morning, when there were fever, agitation, headache, thirst, vomiting, and great epigastric tenderness and diarrhoea. These symptoms continued for three days, after which they declined. On the seventh day the patient appeared so well that attendance was discontinued, but on the following morning she became suddenly worse. On the arrival of Dr. Mascarel, two hours after, she was dead. An autopsy was made by order of the procureur imperial, but no morbid appearances were revealed excepting that the blood was com- pletely fluid, and that the pleura and pericardium contained a con- siderable quantity of sanguinolent serum. All of the organs and the contents of the digestive cavity were submitted to analysis. Traces only of phosphorus were discovei'ed. The two servants of the deceased were suspected. At the trial M. Mascarel expressed the opinion, founded on the facts above related, that her death could only be attributed to poisoning, probably by phosphorus. On the admission of the accused that they had introduced about a thimbleful of powdered ends of matches into the rapS, they were convicted and severally sentenced to twenty years of penal servitude, and ten years' imprisonment. Frickhoffeb.—Poisoning hy Phosphorus. Nass. Med. Jahrbb,, vols, xv, xvi, p. 745. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 24. A man, £Et. 50, took a pint of elder tea for some slight ailment, into which there had been accidentally introduced a box containing lucifers ! Soon after, he experienced burning pain at the epigastrium, sensation of heat at the chest, with anxiety and confusion of thought. He was not seen until six hours afterwards, before which time free vomiting had taken place after drinking milk. Under a sedative and antiphlogistic treatment, combined with magnesia, he got gradually well. Zeidler.—Case of acute Poisoning by Phosphorus. Ann. d. Berl. Charity vol. ix, p. I. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 24. ' A female, jet. 25, was brought into the hospital who had taken at in- tervals of about twelve hours three quantities of phosphorus paste, ob-