REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 It was detected seventy-five times in thirty cases in the urine, saliva, tissues, or secretions. Hermann believes it is not always eliminated by the same channel. ViVENoT.—On the Jvfluence of Changes in the amount of Pressure exerted by the Air on the Human Organism. Virch. Arch., xix, 5 and 6. Schmidt's Jnhrb., vol. 109, p. 335. Diminution of the air-pressure causes increased evaporation and oxy- dntion, accelerates the pulse and breathing, causes dilatation and even rupture of the vessels, a feeling of weariness, and diminished secretion of urine. Increase of the air-pressure (in a compressed air-bath) slows the pulse and respiration, diminishes the pulmonary and cutaneous exha- lation, but increases in consequence the urinary secretion, and prevents congestion of the parts on which it acts. Vivenot concludes, on the whole, that the barometric variations which ordinarily occur produce no effect, objective or subjective, on the human system per se, but that the attendant changes in the temperature, degree of humidity, and currents of air, are much more effective. ToDLMiN.—On the Pathology of Cholera, with an Exposition of the Causes that necessarily render all Medicine inoperative in that Disease. Lancet, Aug. 17th. Toulmin believes that all metamorphosis of tissue is arrested in conse- quence of the " absolute cessation of the circulation of the blood," so that no medicine can be absorbed and become active. He recommends that the patient should be packed in a wet sheet and allowed to drink water freely. His remarks specially refer to the stage of collapse. Delvadx.—On the Employment of Cajeput Oil. Med. Times and Gaz., ** Aug. 17th. Presse Med. Beige, 1861, Nos. 12, 13, 17, 23, 25, 30. Delvaux finds it very useful in various forms of chronic rheumatism, especially such as occur in persons who have resided in hot and humid climates, in whom the digestive canal has become involved in the disorder, and who are much emaciated. It is also very useful locally applied in acne rosacea, pityriasis, and psoriasis, Ltjdwig, C.— The Effects of Baths. (Ester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, ij, 6, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 161. With respect to the direct effects of baths, Ludwig arrives at the fol- lowing conclusions :—(i) that baths inducing perspiration act more power- fully at first than they do after the person has been in them some time; (2) that the animal body loses most water by evaporation in a warm, dry, moving atmosphere ; (3) that the loss of heat is probably considerably greater at the same low temperature of the surrounding medium when the skin immediately before has been artificially warmed, and less when it has been cooled previous to entering the cold medium; (4) the bath alters the excitement and the excitability of the cutaneous muscular tissue directly by its temperature, as well as (5) the excitability of the sensory nerves. As to the reaction of the direct effects of the bath on the general svstem, notice is first taken of the altered condition of the cutaneous vessels, which may be either contracted (by the cold) or dilated (by the warni bath). In the first case accumulation of blood will take place in