hepobt on surgeuy. 810 suLseqiient extravasation of uriue; catheterism imposwible; perineal ineisiou; recovery. Case 2.—Fracture of the pelvis, aud laceration of the urethra; catheterism impracticable; perineal incision; death from other injuries. Case 3.—Indurated stricture of the urethra anterior to the scrotum; internal uretlirotomj^; recovery. Case 4.—Stricture and extravasation of urine; free incisions; recovery; subsequent contraction of the stricture; perineal section; recovery. Case 5.—Retention of urine in a boy; difficult catheterism ; abscess in the perinteum ; perineal section; recovery. Heath, C.—Cases illustrating the treatment of Strictwe of the Urethra hy sudden and forcible dilatation. Lancet, Aug. ,3i8t, p. 203. Pour cases of xu'ethi'al stricture split with Holt's dilator. All did well. Aenott, Dr. J.—On Incision of Stricture of the Urethra. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, p. 264. General observations on this practice, to which are added some remarks on the author's urethrotome and the mode of using it. Thompsok, H.—Treatment of three cases of so-called Impermeahle Stric- ture of the Urethra. Lancet, Aug. 24th, p. 183. AU these cases were treated by " tying in " tbe catheter. Hilton.—Strictuo-e of the Urethra; retention of urine; puncture of the bladder by the rectum. Med. Times and Gaz., March i6th, p. 277. Cambell de Morgan.— Clinical Lecture on the use of Potassa Fusa in the treatment of Stricture of the Urethra. Brit. Med. Journ., March 2nd, p. 217. CUELING.—Stricture of the Female Urethra, caused by an injury in Childbirth; ctired by dilatation. Lancet, Feb. 23rd, p. 188. # POXLOCK.—Tumour mar the Meatus Urinarius of a Female; removal. Lancet, Aug. 24th, p. 183. A stalked, fibro-plastic gi-owth from the areolar tissue siuTOunding the urethra; it was removed by ligatm-e. Penis. p^VNCOAST.—Phimosis; operation hy ruiHure of the Mucous Membrane. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. 2ud, p. 477. Where the glans can be uncovered to some extent, but the prepuce cannot be brought back to the corona, Pancoast draAvs the foreskin for- ward over the glans, getting sufficient room to introduce a pair of dressing forceps, one blade on each side of the glans, inserted between it and the mucous membrane of the prepuce; this (the forceps) is to be pushed back, then opened, and drawn out open, thereby rupturmg the mucous membrane. The tension being overcome, the prepuce is freed, and can be drawn back^ Lee, Yi..—Amputation of the Penis toith tlie Fcraseur, Lancet, Aug. 3iBt, p. 208.