REPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 96 objects submitted to microscopic examination. Wiicn tlie diabetic fluid contains a larger proportion of salts, tlie sugar crystallizes in little cir- cular masses?, with minute crystals projecting from' the surface. The.-e masses appear to bo made up of an aggregation of flat plates of sugar, and, when examined on a dark ground, they resemble lumps of the well- known barley sugar. ROBEnTS, Dr. Wjt.— On a new Clinical Method of cdimalinr/ (he quanlilji of Siufar in Diahetic Urine. Edin. Med. Journ.," Oct., p. 326. The autlior recommends the estimating of the sugar by calculating the loss of density as described in last 'Year Book,' p. 106. In the present communication he proposes the following mode of procedure : 1. Four ounces of urine are placed in a twelve-ounce phial, with a lump of German yeast of the size of a small walnut. 2. This is loosely corked, or covered with a slip of glass, and placed in a warm place to ferment. 3. A companion phial filled with the same urine—say a three-ounce phial—is tightly corked, and placed beside the fermenting phial. 4. In about twenty-two hours, when fermentation has ceased, the two phials are removed, and placed in some cooler part of the room. jj. Two hours after—that is, about twenty-four hours from the com- mencement of the experiment—the contents of the phials are separately poured into cylindrical glasses, and the density of each observed. 6. Tlie difference between the two densities is thus ascerta,ined, and every degree of " density lost " indicates one grain per fluid ounce of sugar in the urine. Gilchrist, Dr. (Torquay).—On Indigo in Urine. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 535. A labourer's wife, ajt. 58, first noticed a blue deposit in her urine about fourteen years ago, at which time she suffered from acute pain in the region of the heart. The urine was very offensive, and has continued so up to the present time. There is now considwable pain about the neck of the bladder, accompanied with frequent calls to micturate (occasionally every five or ten minutes). The total amount of urine passed in twenty- four hours is about three pints. It is of a dirty, greenish-yellow colour, strongl}' ammoniacal, and of sp. gr. loio. On standing, it deposits a greenish-blue sediment, consisting of triple phospliates, ejDithelium-cells, amorphous hluc matter, and some masses of a yellowish-brown colour. The blue and yellow matters are insoluble in water, acetic acid, ammonia or cold alcohol; but soluble in nitric acid and hot alcohol. The former destroys the colour. On adding sulphuric acid to the clear urine a faint- pink or copper colour is produced, thus proving that only a small amount of urine-pigment is present. WOOD^'AEU, Dr.—0;( ihe Adion of Opium on the Qenito-urinary Organs. Boston Med. Journ., vol. Ixv, p. 158. The ' Medical Times and Gaz.,' of the 30th November gives the following extract from Dr. Woodward's paper:—The author states that an accident