289 BLOOD-VESSELS. Aneurism of the Gluteal Artery. Si-iiE.—Z«;-<7e Gluteal Aneurism; ligature of tlic gluteal artery. Lancet, June 22116, p. 611. . , , • -.i A uiiddle-a"-ed raau received a deep puucture m the liip with a prunmg knife. The bleeding, which was very free, ceased, and au aneurism formed. Seven years after this, when he came under Syme's care, tlie tumour, a hirge, blunt cone, was as large as a man's head at its base, and occupied the Avhole hip. Syrae freely exposed the cavity by a long incision, turned out the clots, foimd and tied the gluteal artery. Emlolus and Aneurismal Varix of the Femoral Vessels. Adams, A. Ij.—Emlolus of the Femoral Artery, followed hy Sphacelus of the Ley and Foot; amputation; recovery. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 538. Pembeetois-, 0.—On a case of Aneurismal Varix in theiippei'partof the Thigh, following the employment of 2Jressure for the cure of an aneurism of the posterior tibial artery. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 189. In this case a direct comuiuuication was established between the femoral artery and the femoral vein. Aneurism of the Femoral Artery. Eawsox, T. J.—Case of Traumatic Anewis^n of the Femoral Artery. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. ist, p. 229. Solly.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery at tlie Groin; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. Lancet, June ist, p. _^32. A carpenter, a;t. 32. The tumour lay just below Poupart's ligament; it measured five inches in its vertical and three and a half inches in its transverse diameter, and was red and tender. As pressure could not be endured, the external iliac artery was tied January ist, i860. The thread came away on the thirtieth day. The tumour became very small and hard, and the man was discharged cured on March 9th. SoLr,T and Joxes.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery, compression; liga- ture of the vessel; secondary hmmorrhage; ligature of the exter- nal iliac artery; fatal result. lb. A groom, at. 33. The aneurism occupied the middle of the thigli; was five inches long, and three across. It commenced nine months before his admission into St. Thomas's Hospital. November i6th,—Pressure with a "horse-shoe tourniquet;" Tr. Digitalis, 5j thrice daily, with opium at night. ]3eing unable to bear the pressure, 28th, Jones tied the femoral artery above the profunda. December 2nd,—The separation of the thread was followed by arterial hfemorrhage, and this recurring several times next day, Jones tied the art. iliaca ext., which stopped the