VASCULAE, SYSTEM. necessary for the production of a bruit, (3) The fii'st sound is not due to a valvular clapping (daqtiemcnt) ; it results from the shock of the blood against the walls of the ventricle, under the influence of the auricular contraction. (4) The shock of the heart against the thoracic walls is the consequence of this same contraction, which augments the volume of the ventricles in distending them, and imparts to them a forward movement. (5) Certain vivisections have shown that the ventricles, after their active contraction, remain in a state of tonic contraction. It is probably so in the human subject. (6) The second sound seems to depend on several causes, of which the principal are the percussion on the distended sigmoid valves of the column of blood contained in the arteries at the moment of arterial systole, and the sudden entrance of the blood of the veins into the auricles at the moment of auricular diastole. CHAUVEAtr.—On Vascular Murmurs, and on the Action oftTie Aimculo- ventricular Valves. Journ. de la Physiol. Ed. Med. Joum., April, p. 949. , Chauveau finds—(i) That the systole of the auricles has a very appreciable duration, and that it is always sharply distinguishable from the systole of the ventricles. (2) That this auricular systole is entirely aphonic. (3) That the first sound succeeds the auricular systole, and coincides exactly with the ventricular systole. (4) That the shock of the heart, is synchronous with the first sound, also succeeds the auricular systole, and coincides with the ventricular systole. (5) That the shock imparted to the valves of the heart by their sudden tension is strong enough to be perceived by tactile exploration on the exterior of the organ, as well around the auriculo-ventricular orifices as around the arterial orifices. (6) That the shock, and the bruit by which it is made perceptible to the ear, entirely cease if l^y some artifice the tension of the valves is prevented. Wagneh, E.— On a Simple Metliod of observing directly and for a length of time the Hearfs Movement in Birds. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 255. Canst., vol. i, p. 122. The writer " observes " the cardiac movements with the finger, ad- mitted by a 1" shaped incision below the sternum, w'hich is then raised, Maeet, Dr.—Tlie Law governing the Frequency of the Scarfs JPulsa- tions. Compt. Eend., July 15th, 1861, p. 95. The author states that if a manometer be applied to one of the carotids of a horse, so that the force of the heart's action can be exactly ascertained, it will be found that galloping the animal until it is out of breath, reduces the force of the heart's action, although it at the same time augments the number of its pulsations. On the other hand, it will be found that repose diminishes tlie number of pulsations while it at the same time increases the arterial tension. From this the author concludes that the acceleration of tlie pulse by muscular exertion does not originate in the heart itself, but depends entirely upon the increased facility of the passage of the blood through the muscular system. In a precisely similar manner Marey explains the effects of fever, as well