UEPORT ON phactical medicine. 210 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Wright, H.^ 6.—Some remar/cs on a Case of Poisoning ly Sir W. Burnett's Solution of Chloride of Zinc. Lancet, Jan. i2tli. The patient, set. 7, female, had become greatly exhausted and emaciated, all nutriment being rejected, whether given by mouth or rectum. She was gradually restored to health by milk baths, taken night and morning, absolute rest, a diet of asses' milk with lime water, cautiously improved as the digestion permitted, and supporting the abdominal muscles with thick chamois-leather plaster. Miles, E. J.—Report of a Case of Sarcina Fe)itriculi, with vomiting of Gall-stones. Lancet, Jan. 19th. The sarcinous vomiting ceased after the ejection of two large gall-stones from the stomach and the adoption of a fluid diet. Inman.—On Sore Throat. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 26th. Inman maintains that the pain of sore throat and dysphagia is due to the muscles pf deglutition being unusually irritable or inflamed, and in the way of treatment he finds great advantage from soothing applications, as gargles containing laudanum. These are applicable to all forms of cynanche, even scarlatinal or diphtheritic. Gaiedner, W. T.—On Ileus. Lancet, May 25th. Gairdner relates a case in which a very healthy girl, set. 10, had no proper alvine evacuation for sixteen days, with, after some time, faecal vomiting, hiccup, prostration, collapse, but no fever or abdominal ten- derness. No tumour could be discovered, but it seemed probable that there was some obstruction, probably an intussusception in the colon. At last faecal matter began to ooze away, and gradually the stools became more and more copious, but no slough was passed nor any trace of blood. She recovered completely. ZiMMERMANN.— On Dysentery, especially ivith regard to the participa- tion of the Kidneys in the Disease. Deutsche Klinik, 42—45, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 3^. Ziramermann believes that the relation of the kidneys to the bowel aff"ection may be one of the four following :—(i) There is no albumen and no casts in the urine during the whole course of the dysentery, which always terminates favorably. (2) The dysentery is severe, but it lasts a long time before exudation appears in the urine, the occurrence of which is preceded and attended by putridity of the copious stools, by status nervosus, collapse, and paralytic phenomena. Death may ensue, or recovery. (3) The disease is similar, but the renal affection occurs sooner, and death usually ensues speedily. (4) The dysentery commences with symptoms of paralysis and nervous disorder, and the urine from the first is scanty and contains abundance of exudation-products. If speedy im- provement does not take place death follows, and the kidneys are found hio-hly congested, and the tubes filled with exudation, cells, and detritus.