844 llEPOKT OX JUDWll'-KUY, ETC. To arrest " aiite pnrtum lucinorrliagc," the author recommends an India-riibhcr viigiiinl plug, to be distended with M'ntcr. Post-partuni liBcmorrhage is best arrested by introducing one hand in the vagina and phicing the otlier on the abdomen, and pressing the uterus between tiie two. The uterus should be emptied of clots first, and cold, wet, cloths applied. Respecting the " use of the forceps in difficult labours," the author contends that their more frequent use would very probably lessen foetal mortality. He has used the forceps about once in eight deliveries. llUPTUUlij LACERATION, INVEllSION 01'' THE UTEHUSf. Edjiundson, Dr.—A successful case of Rupture of the Uterus. Dub. Med. Press, July loth, 1861. Head impacted, labour-pains had been severe. There had been hae- morrhage, sudden shock, fainting, and collapse. A foot was felt through abdominal walls. Craniotomy performed, and foetus extracted. For three days patient in extreme danger from peritonitis ; final recovery. M'KiNLAY, Dr. W. B.—Rejm-t of a case of Rupture of the Uterus in the fourth month of utero-gestation. Glasg. Med. Journ., Oct., 1861, p. 324. A very well-formed woman, in a perfect state of health, without using any exertion, and apparently without receiving any personal injury, in the fourth mouth of pregnancy became ill at night and died early next morning. The uterus was ruptured across the fundus, and much clotted blood found in the abdomen. The stomach very much congested, the uterine tissue apparently quite normal and healthy. DuNSMURE, Dr.—Case of Rupture of the Utems. Ed. Med. Journ., May, 1861, p. 1044. The patient's age was thirty-nine. She had had seven children. The rupture took place after labour had lasted a little over twenty-four hours. The head presented, and was hydrocephalic. It was punctured, and delivery effected. Death ten hours after. PuTEGNAT.—Double complete Rupture of the Uterus during Lalour; severe consecutive accidents and cure ; subsequent i^regnancy, termi- nating easily and favorably. Journ. de Brux., Jan., 1861, p. 14. CoiiSE, Dr.—Rupture of the Uterus, and Death from Hcemorrhage, in the sixth month of jvegnancy. Am. Med. Journ., Jan., 1861, p. 109. The cause of the rupture was not apparent. Death, Robert.—Case of Inversion of the Uterus. Lancet, Oct. 2(5tb, 1861, p. 411. Death took place from haemorrhage. A midwife had apparently used force in extracting the placenta.