198 REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. WoLTEttSOHr.—A Case of (Edema of the Glottis successfully treated by Scarijication. Med. Zeituiig, lierausg, v, d. Vereine f. lleilk. in Preusseii, No. 37, i860. Cimstatt's Jalirebber., vol. iii, p. icjij. Flint, A.—Lectures on Auscultation. Amer. Med. Times, Oct. 5th, 12th, 19th, 26tli, Nov. 2nd. Flint distinguishes the intensity, quality, and pitch of percussion sounds. He affirms, as a general law, without exceptions, that whenever the vesicular quality in percussion sounds is morbidly diminished or lost, the yjitch of the sound becomes higher than that oF the resonance of health. The vesicular resonance differs in different persons. It is greater in most cases at the left apex than at the right. Vesiculo-tympanitic is a peculiar form of resonance heard in the upper part of one side of the chest when the lower is occupied by fluid or by hepatized lung, or when in the upper part of the lung a notable amount of tubercular deposit inter- venes between the bronchial tubes and walls of the chest. Church, W. H.—Description and use of the tiaryngoscope. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th. Church describes a contrivance by which the tongue is kept depressed without it being necessary to hold it down by a spatula. He confirms Czermak's statement, and gives some cases of his own where local treat- ment directed by the laryngoscope was of great service. Gebhabdt.—On the application of the Speculum Laryngis. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., vol. i, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 81. The most novel observations made by Gerhardt relate to derangements of the movements of the larynx, e.g.—(i) A triangular, open space is observed between the arytenoid cartilages during the closure of the glottis, with coexisting aphonia or hoarseness. (2) The vocal cords, even in deep respiration, remain parallel close to each other, as during the action of the thyro-arytenoids. (3) An oblique, fixed position of one arytenoid cartilage and its vocal cord, or lessened mobility of one vocal cord. (4) Defective vibration of the vocal cords on uttering a deep tone. Semeleder.—On examination of the Naso-guttural Space. Zeitschr. derk. k. gesellsch. d. Aerztezu Wien, No. 19, i860. Canst. Jahresb., voi. ii, p. 81. Semeleder gives full details as to the mode of managing the soft palate and tongue, and getting a view of the posterior nares and Eustachian tubes. The velum is to be raised and carried forwards and upwards, the tongue depressed. Gerhardt, C, and Roth, Y.— On Syphilitic Diseases of the Larynx. Yirchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, p. 7. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. , , Out of fifty-six syphilitic patients the authors found eighteen affected by disease of the larynx. According to Ricord, the proportion of cases of laryngeal disease is greater among those who have ternary than those who have secondary svmptoms. Laryngitis is often considered as the result of cold or other irritation when it is really produced by syphilis.