60 i UKPOliT 0\ TIIR INSTITHTKS OP irRDICIN'E. 2. All the poisons acted lirst upon tlio heart, whither they were iulro- diiccd by the mouth, or by a wouud. 3. The duration of the heart'H action, after the introduction of the poison, waH from five to ten minutes in the case of the antiar, tau- ghinia, and hellebore, and from ten to twenty minutes after the adminis- tration of digitalis. 4. The ventricle is always arrested while in a state of contraction, and remains pale and empty, whilst the auricles are distended and full of blood. 5. The cardiac contractions at the end of the experiment are some- times accelerated, at other times they gradually become slower from the very commencement. 6. The passage of the heart iuto complete paralysis is not gradual; after the number of the pulsations has been reduced to ten, fifteen, or twenty in the minute, the ventricular movements cease suddenly, and a little later the auricular movements gradually cease. 7. At the commencement of the experiment the heart's action is rhythmical, but towards the end it becomes irregular. 8. All the poisons exert their toxic effects upon the heart, indepen- dently of the intervention of the cerebro-spinal nervous system, so that the destruction of the medulla oblongata or cervical pneumogastric does not retard the action of the poisons. By galvanizing the pneu- mogastric of the frog, either before or after the animal has been poisoned, the action of the heai't can be stopped. If the ventricle has ceased to beat and the auricles are still pulsating, the galvanism causes their action to cease likewise. 9. Galvanizing the abdominal sympathetic after the action of the heart has ceased, does not cause it to begin again. 10. The lymphatic hearts of frogs cease to heat after the blood heart has stopped, and before reflex movements have disappeared. Geemaik, Dr.—On the Actio7i of Digitalis. Gaz. Hebdom., No. 44. Med. Times and Gaz., vSept. 7th, p. 250. The result of the author's investigations has led him to the follow- ing conclusions :—(i) Notwithstanding the isolated opinion of Sanders, in contradiction to all that has been observed before and since his time, digitalis does diminish the frequency of the contractions of the heart. (2) Nothing proves that it diminishes the strength of the heart's contraction, while theor^^, physiological research, and the author's own experiments, demonstrate that one of its mediate effects in Jiarrowiug the orifices of the heart is to increase such strength; and that, con- sequently, there is no danger in administering it in cases in which the energy of the heart appears diminished. (.3) The frequency of the contractions of the heart in cases of narrowing of its orifices prevents this organ from recovering its normal function, and disorder of the circulation being thus produced, the amelioration which follow.s the administration of digitalis is explained simply by the power it possesses of diminisliing the frequency of the contractions. (4) There is no proof that digitalis is possessed of diuretic properties, the reputation conferred upon it to this effect by Withering having been accepted