VASCULAK -SYSTEM. 27 I. Increased pressure {i) raises the medium teusiouof the blood, (a) The respiratory movements are not impeded until the pressure balances from lo to 20* millimetres of mercury, when inspiration becomes quick and short, and expiration labored and slow, a pause of some dm-ation gene- rally ensuing. (3) If the pressure exceeds 20 millimetres the breathing movements frequently cease for several mimites. (4) Even if it rises other ten or fifteen millimetres no signs of suffocation appear. This is probably because much blood accumulates in the brain, supplying the medulla oblongata plentifully with oxygen, so that no automatic movements are induced. (5) The passage of the blood to the heart is impeded, and the tension in the aortic system is diminished. The heart and great vessels are compressed ; arterial pressure becomes at last equably continuous. (6) In the external jugular vein the pressure rises con- siderably. (7) If the pressure of the respired air exceeds thirty or forty millimetres the pulse slackens, but quickens with a further rise, again diminishing as it becomes yet stronger. Here there is a double me- chanism ; the pulse is quickened by direct irritation of the heart, and slackened from excitation of the vagi by encephalic congestion. In proof of this it is remarked that after section of these nerves no retard- ation of the pulse occurs. (8) Stupified by opium, the dogs bear ordeals of this sort long and repeatedly, and only die at very high pressures. The author imitated these experiments on himself, by closing the nostrils and holding the tracheal tube between the lips. Under low pressure the breathing movements were maintained by straining the muscles of expiration. Higher pressure caused a painful sense of oppression, and retardation of the pulse. Yet higher pressure pro- duced redness and swelling of the face and neck, prominence of the globes, flow of tears, tinnitus, and occipital pain. The experiment terminated, the pulse—imperceptible before—^was found to be full, strong, and infrequent. II. Diminished pressure.—Here (i) the respiratory movements never pause. (2) Inspiration is toilsome, but so long as the excess of the external atmospheric pressure over the internal, is not equal to more than about fifty millimetres of mercury, respiration still proceeds per- ceptibly. (3) The blood pressure rises in expiration and sinks with inspiration. Tet, since the overloaded heart drives more blood into the arteries, (4) the mean blood pressure is higher than natural. (5) The pulse becomes slower as the rarefaction increases. This is attributed to irritation of the vagus as well as to incipient paralysis of the heart from the effects of the rarefied air; for, after section of the vagi, the pulse does not slaclten until the rarefaction has been very long main- tained. III. At the ordinari/ pressure—(i) the breathing movements, when shallow and quick, do not influence the pulse and blood-pressure, but (2) when deep and slow, the pulse becomes more frequent during in- spiration, especially towards its close. Sinking at the outset of inspi- ration, the blood-pressure then rises, but does not attain its maximum tdl after tlie end of that act. During expiration the pulse becomes less frequent, while the pressure reaches its highest, and tlien falls con- siderably. Pulse and pressure remain unchanged during the pause. (3)