13 MUSCULAU SYSTEM. Adams further remarks that, from a careful measurement of fourteen adult skeletons in the Eoyal College of Surgeons, including the skele- tons of the Irish and American giants and the Sicilian dwarf, as well as those from the Bushmen, Negro, Polynesian, and Australian races, he has found that the average lengtli of the spine—that is, taking its ver- tical height from the top of the atlas to the upper surface of the sacrum —forms, as nearly as possible, one third of the total height of the skele- ton. In seven instances this relative proportion is exact; in five, the spine is half an inch in excess ; in one, an inch iu excess ; and in one, half an inch less. When the measurement is taken along the anterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrfe, the curved form of the spine generally gives from one to two inches more in excess of the one third taken as the vertical height. The spine, therefore, varies in length, according to the height of the individual, with great regularity, always maintaiuiug, iu well-proportioned individuals, the relative proportion of one third to the total height of the skeleton. TnoMMER, C.—Tlie Chemical JVaticre of Clionclrogenous {or time) and of Collagenous {or hone) Cartilage. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. In this paper the author opposes the conclusion of Friedleben ('Tear-Book,' toI. ii, p. 19), that bone-cartilage only diflers from true cartilage because, beiug extracted by muriatic acid, it thereby suffers a change. Trommer, however, remarks that the acid does not affect true cartilage at ordinary temperatures, if it be subsequently completely removed by washing and by neutralization with ammonia, whilst, under the same circumstances, bone-cartilage is collagenous in its reactions. AndWilkens (Zeitschr. f w. z., vol. x, p. 467) objects to the view that the presence of sulphur distinguishes genuine chondrin. MUSCULAE SYSTEM. Maego, Th.—Om the Muscular Fibres of the Molliisca. A Contribution to the comjmrative Structure and Development of Muscular Tissue. Moleschott's TJntersuch., vol. vii, p. 165. SczElKOW.—Totoards the Histology of the Striated Muscles. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. 215. The author confirms the results obtained by Botteher, and stated in 'Year-Book,' vol. i, p. 24. BocKDALEK, '^mx.^Contribution to the Anatomy of the Laryngeal Muscles. Oest. Ztschr., Nos. 4 and 16. Canst., vol. i, p. 97. Under the name of " posterior crico-thyroid," the author describes a muscle arising by a partly fleshy and partly tendinous attachment iust above the inferior point of insertion of the posterior crico-arytenoid and proceeding m a round bundle outwards and upwards, to be inserted'into the posterior margin of nearly all the inferior coruu of the thyroid car- tilage. This muscle occurred to the author in one out of every six sub- .|cct,s, always on one side only, and invariably in females. It was once found on both sides, and iu a man, by Patruban. It has already been