DISEASES OF AND OPEEATIOXS ON THE JAW. 251 At each attempt with the lever Langenbeck felt a movement in the joint, and experienced a sensation as if the lower jaw were jammed against some strong impediment, by which all further movement was prevented. No stretching of the temporal muscle could be felt above the malar bone whilst the lever was acting, but, on the other hand, the lower jaw (its coronoid process) was felt impinging on a firm obstruction, the posterior surface of the nialar and superior maxillary bones. The proposed division of the temporal muscles now became objectless, and the idea occurred to Langenbeck that possibly a faulty shape and direc- tion of the coronoid process was the cause of the difBculty. That this was the correct explanation was proved by the perfect success which followed the division of these processes a week afterwards, when the punctures of the first operation had healed. (Illustrated by drawings.) Thomsok, J.—Case of accidental removal of the greater part of the Lower Jawhone. Edin. Monthly Journ., Dec, p. 587. A man, whilst ploughing, was thrown down by bis bullocks running away, and the coulter, catching his throat, tore away the entire horizontal portion and more than half of the right ramus of the lower jaw. PiTHA.—Resection of the Lower Jaiv. "Wiener Medic. "Wochenschrift, i860, Nos. 39, 40, 41, 42. Canstatt's Jahresb., vol. v, p. 248. Ti^msG-E..—Eemoval of the Loioer Jaio on account of a considerable Ttmoiir. Gi-az. des Hdp., No. 77, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, No. 7, p. 77. Stanley.—Necrosis of the Loioer Jaw occurring in a Lucifer-match Maker. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. i6th, p. 173. Cooper, E. S.—Eeproduction of the left half of the Loioer Jaw. Amer. Med. Times, Eeb. 23rd, p. 129. This occurred after the exfoliation of half the jaw, including the coro- noid and condyloid processes, which had perished from mercury. JOHNSOM-, J. Gr.—Bemoval of one half of the Maxilla Lnferiorfor Ne- crosis ; complete hony restitution and restoration of tlie fimctions oj the Jaw. ^ Amer. Med. Times, May 25th, p. 338. The necrosis was consequent upon an injury received in the removal of a tooth. The portion of bone removed included the coronoid and condyloid processes, the ramus, and body of the jaw on the left side as far forwards as the lateral incisor tooth. The periosteum was turned aside with the handle of a scalpel. One year afterwards the restoration 18 said to have been complete and the articulation perfect. MoTT, A. 'B.—Necrosis of Inferior Maxilla; plastic operation. Amer Med. Times, June 8th, p. 371. Phosphorus-necrosis. The entire lower jaw was removed The sub sequent cicatrization drew down the lower lip and prevented the closure of the mouth. For the relief of this a plastic operation, by slidino- and transplantation, was performed. & "^-^ BOWMAIT, -W.-Fihrous Qroxoth imhedded in the Alveolus of the Loioer Jaw; successful extirpation. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 6.