heport on midwiferYj etc. 87a practised in London by Mr. Baker Brown, and witnessed by liimself. He urges the propriety of adopting the operation in Franee. Success has attended the operation in England because the conditions under wiiicU the patients are placed are the best, the patients operated on being kept in snn\ll hospitals, free from the vitiating influence peculiar to the atmo- sphere in large hospitals. He urges the establishment of small hospitals in the environs of Paris for sucii operations as ovariotomy. Smitit, Dr. Tylek.—Ovariotomy, with cases; and remarks on the different steps of the operation and causes of its mortality. Obst. Trans., vol. lii. The author justifies the operation on account of the favorable compari- son whicli can be made between the mortality from it and that from other capital operations. The results of other modes of treatment of ovarian cystic diseases were shown to be very unsatisfactory. The author relates four cases in all of whicii the operation was successfully performed. The short incision was employed, the cysts tapped and brought out at the wound. Opium was given sparingly, stimulants on the third or fourth day, in absence of inflammatory symptoms. Especial care was exercised to prevent the operation of miasmatic or contagious influence. The ligature, not the clnmp, was employed. Shock or collapse are the cause of death in 17 per cent, of the fatal cases. Hence it is important to operate before a state of exhaustion has been reached. Breaking down of adbesions of extensive character alone necessarily produces dangerous shock. Haemor- rhage has been fatal in 16 per cent, of the deaths from ovariotomy. This would be prevented by exercise of care in applying the ligature. The liga- ture should not be left till all bleeding has ceased, and the pedicle should always be transfixed. Peritonitis kills 43 per cent, of the cases as yet recorded unsuccessful. This is due, the author believes, to miasmatic or contagious influence, which can be prevented, and does not necessarily belong to the operation. The peritonitis is like puerperal fever, and is due to some poison introduced from without. ' This explains the fact that the operation has been far less favorable in general hospitals. Each patient should be treated as we should guard a lying-in woman. Smith, Dr. Tyler.—Four additional cases of Ovariotomy. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. This is an appendix to the former paper. Three out of these four patients recovered. In one case, where recovery took place, the course was adopted of returning the stump and ligature, after cutting it oft' as closely as possible, into the abdomen, and closing the wound entirely. Wells, Spencer.— Three cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., May 25th, 1861, p. 545. In the first case the operation was successfully performed on a patient, -single, set. 22, with a large, mullilocular cyst of four years' growth. In the second, on a patient, set. 55, also successfully. In the third case, that of a married woman, set. 42, a large compound cyst was removed, but the patient died twenty-four hours after. In the latter case seven pints of a very irritating serum were found in the abdomen, and the author expresses his opinion that where such a secretion is formed it should be