432 REPORT ON TOXICOLOOY AND MATERIA. MEDICA. externally to the skin. The nutbor is inclined to infer provisionally that thus toxicodendron is without action. Hapindacece. Patruban, v.—On the therapeutic uses of Paullinia sorhiliit. Oest. Ztsclir., vol. V, No. 41. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 287. The ripe seeds of Paullinia mrhilis (Sapindacea;) are collected in the province of PaiJi, North Brazil, and arc pounded and kneaded into a paste by the natives of the districts bordering the rivers Uraguay, Ibicuy, and others. This paste is made into cakes of about a pound weight, whicli are dried in smoke. In this form it is known in commerce as Giiarana paste. It contains an alkaloid guaranin, supposed to be identical with colfein. It is given in powder as an astringent tonic, in doses of fifteen to twenty grains, several times a day. In larger doses it is said to produce vertigo, diplopia, sleeplessness, &c. It has been successfully used by various practitioners in menorrhagia and haemoptysis. The author (fol- lowing the recommendation of Trousseau) has found it valuable in mi- graine. In South America it is employed as a preservative against diarrhoea and dysentery. Mayee.— On the therapeutic applications of Paullinia Sorbilis. Jhrb. f. Kinderhlk., vol. iv, part 2. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 21. Graseh.—Fatal case of Poiso7iing hy the seeds of Eno)it/mus Europwus. Nass. Med. Jhrb., vol. xxxvi, p. 745. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 25. The seeds of the spindle tree are used in Germany as a popular emetic, in doses of two or three seeds. A man, set. 43, took one evening eighteen seeds, and as many more the next morning fasting. Soon after the last dose he was seized with frightful abdominal pain, profuse diarriicea, and eventually bloody stools. He was not seen till evening, when he was in a state of profound collapse, with involuntary evacuations of blood and mucus. On lifting him up, tetanic convulsions were induced, which im- mediately preceded death. No autopsy took place. Vmbelliferce, Baillot.—New facts in support of the employment of Apiol in the treatment of Jmenorrhcea aiid Dysmenorrhoea. Journ. de Pharm.. vol. xxxix, p. 456. Apiol is the active principle of parsley seeds, discovered twelve years ao'o by Ilomolle. The paper contains observations illustrative of its value as an emmenagogue, and an appreciation of the cases in which it is applicable. It is given in doses of four grains twice a day, immediately before and during the catamenial period. Primnlacece. YvLVJU-a.—On the physioloffical and toxical influence of Cyclamen and Cyclaminc. Giiz. de Paris, No. 86. A Commission of the Medical Faculty of Naples has been recently