KEPORT ON TIIJJ INSTITUTES 01' MEDTCINJi:. tipolar cells, (c) cells with medullary sheath only (bipolar cells of the BiOHiLRDSON, Vlv.—On ike Artificial Fmluclion of Calaracl. T tioiiH Brit. Ahsoc, i86i. Ksxvi\—0)i the situation and curves of the Surfaces of the Human Cri/s- talline Lens, and the effect of its c/ianr/es during accommodaliun on the Dioptrics of the Ei/e. Grale's Arcbiv, vol vi, part 2, p. 1, and vol. vii, part 2, p. 53. ZoLLNER.—Contributions to the Chromatic and Achromatic Aberration of the Human Ei/e. Pogg. Ann., a'oI. iii, p. 829. ZdLi.NER.—Ort a new relulion of the Retina to the Movements of the Iris. Pogg. Ann., vol. iii, p. 481. Helmiioltz.—P7/yA7o%/crtZ Optics. In Karwten'w PhyMikal. Encyclo- piidic, Leipzig, i860. Troeltscu, Dr. A. \o^.—The An(t.tomi/ of the Ear in its practical application to the Diseases of the Organ of Hearing. Contributions to a scientific foundation of aural medicine and surgery. AVurz- burg, i860, p. io5. Deiters, O.—llesearcJics on the Lamina Spiralis Memhranaeea A con- tribution to the knowledge of tbe internal ear. Bonn, i860. EvHEL, Ehanz.—Phjsiohgi/ of the Human Voice. A text boolc on tbe cultivation of tbe voice and speech of man. 8vo, Leipzig, i860. Peliiger, B.—Precursor;) communication on the Law of Electric Sensa- tions. Med. Centralztg., vol. xxviii, p. 69. Peluger, E.—Papers on the Electric Sensation. 4to, Boiui, i860. Schttltze, M.—Observations on the intimate Structure of the Bctina. Bonn, 1859. Tbe author's very minute investigation of tbe anatomy of the retina leads liim to tbe following results, namely—(i) Tbe " radiating fibres " recognised by Miiller consist of connective tissue, for they are neitber similar to, nor blended witb, tbe nervous elements. (2) The " limiting membrane" is formed by tbe multiplication and retiform expansion of those filaments. (3) This retiform arrangement is not confined to tbe surface, but exists throughout the substance of the retina, as far as tlic radiating fibres extend, /. e. as far as tbe outer granular layer, forming a network of extreme delicacy, enclosing and protecting tbe nervous elements. (4) The radiating fibres arc not, as Kdlliker thinks, con- nected in the outer granular layer with the granules, and thus indirectly wdth the rods. Tbe network only contains the granules in its meshes, and abruptly ceases at tbe outer surface of the colunniar layer, in an expansion analogous to the limiting membrane which it forms at its opposite termination. (.';) The nerve-fibi-es of tbe retina are, as Bowman correctly teaches, free cylinder-axes, without medulla or neurilemma. (6) The ganglion-cells, which are in direct conjunction witb the optic fibres, are supported by tbe net of filamentous tissue above described. (7) They are simple, nucleated intumescences of tlic cylinder-axis, like ganglion-cells in general, which, it may be mentioned, the author distinguishes into four kinds—{a) naked cells (brain, cord, retina), (&) cells witb neurilemma only (peripheric ganglion, with mul-