DIGESTIVli SYSTEM. •writer states—(i) that in some tongues they do not exist at all; (2) that wherever they are well developed tlie mucous membrane is other- wise demonstrably diseased; and (3) tliat in one and the same organ they may be found in all stages of transition, from the smaller and vaguely limited mass to the larger and accurately circumscribed sac. Ordensteik, L.—On the Parotid Saliva of Man. 4to, Giessen, 1859. Ebsteik, W.—Oil the Microscojjio Changes in loiled and unboiled Starch suljected to tlie action of the Saliva. 8vo, Berlin, 1859. Canst., vol. i, pp. 116, 117. Ordenstein, who worked under Eckhard's guidance, obtained the saliva by means of a canula introduced from the mouth into Stenson's duet, (i) Its specific gravity varies from I'ooji to i'oo43. (2) Or- dinarily alkaline, it becomes acid or neutral when the person is fasting, and its secretion is not very abundant. (3) The per-centage of solid residue varies from 5'02 to 6'02. (4) It contains an albuminous sub- stance. (5) Its power of converting starch into sugar is destroyed by a heat of 130°, or by the addition of mineral acid or spirit. (6) Its flow, usually small, and apparently suspended during sleep, is most increased by the mastication of dry substances. (7) Its average hourly quantity was, in {a) an ill-developed lad, living almost wholly on vegetable diet, 11'8 grammes; {b) a healthy working man, aged forty-nine, i"i ; (c) a student, 4-5 ; and (d) a robust young person, i. Ebstein states that the saliva acts most readily on the contents of the starch-granules, whilst it affects the cell-membranes but little. He also asserts that it is not deprived of its conversive action on starch by the mineral acids, unless in excess, or by spirit, though heat has that effect. Maecet, Dr. ("Westminster Hospital).—Researches on the Constituents of the Gastric Juice. Journ. Chem. See, Oct., p. 256. Marcet derived the following results from his researches :—(i) Gas- tric juice possesses the property of rotating, more or less, the plane of polarization of light to the left. (2) This optical property of gastric juice is due to its containing peptone. 0-024 grammes of this substance, dissolved in 25 c.c. of water, rotates the plane of polarization 1° in Soleil's saccharimeter. (3) Gastric juice, obtained by exciting its se- cretion by means of non-digestible bodies, such as pebbles, exerts no action whatever on polarized light, thereby confirming the second con- clusion. (4) There is reason to believe that peptone is the only con- stituent of the gastric juice possessed of the property of acting upon polarized light. Meissner, G.—JResearches on the Dujestion of Alhminous Substances. 2nd and 3rd articles. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., i860, vol. viii, p. 280; vol. X, p. I. Canst., vol. i, p. 118. These papers on the digestion of albumen, syntonin, and casein are the continuation of a previous article reported in ' Year Book ' vol ii p. 85. We here give the most interesting results. ' ' ' I Mbumen.—U uncoagulated white of egg be added to dQute hydrochloric acid (2 per cent.), abundant translucent shreds are produced