229 CUTANilOUS SYSTEM. inunction. In eczema, when chronic, he uses tlie above solution and subsequently tar. Psoriasis is also eiiectually treated by the same means as prurigo. " In acne disseminata, and rosacea, and in sycosis, sulphur is very usel'ul, Vlemingkx's solution may be used when a strong appUcation is needed Lac Sulphuris, with equal parts of glycerine and alcoliol, when a milder is desirable. Pityriasis versicolor and Ichthyosis are be- neficially modified by sulphur. On syphilis sulphur has no efiect. Bergh, R., and Bambergeb, H.—0?i Scabies Crustosa. Hosp. Tidende, 50, 51, 1859. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., 1, %, i860, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 49- „, Bergh details a case of this disorder with exceeding minuteness. The patient was a man, set. 66, who had suffered from itching all over him for two years. The skin everywhere was, more or less, rough, furrowed, and desquamating, but on the scalp especially there was a thicldsh scab, firmly adherent. In this region numerous acari were found, and their eggs and excrements, and burrows in some other parts. The formation of scabs is the distinctive character of this disease, which seems to have been mistaken for others, and thus named by Plenck, Lepra scabiosa, and by Willan, Impetigo scabiosa. The continued irritation produced by the acari causes a rapid formation of epidermic cells, while the older layer, traversed by burrows and containing the dead parents of younger acari, eggs, &c., is pushed outwards, but still remains adherent, being saturated by fluid exuding from beneath. Bamberger also relates a case, but is inclined to believe that the disease is essentially different from ordinary scabies, probably from some difference in the organization of the acari. Barwiukel suggests that the greater or less degree of sensitiveness of the cutaneous nerves may be concerned in causing the different conditions. Anderson, T. McC.—Hoio is syphilitic {or specific) to be distinguished from non-syphilitic (or non-specific) Psoriasis? Glasgow Med. Journ., July. (i) The patches of the non-specific disease are usually larger than those of the other form, and its extent is greater ; (2) it almost invariably affects the elbows and knees, which the syphilitic does only occasionally; (3) the colour is more coppery in the syphihtic, and itching is mostly absent; (4) the scales of this form are usually much thinner and less imbricated than in the non-syphilitic; (5) The latter is of longer dura- tion, and occurs earlier than the syphilitic, while its relapses are more constant; (6) syphilitic psoriasis originates from a hard chancre, or pro- bably from secondary sores, it is attended mostly by other syphilitic symptoms, while in the non-specific disease the health is perfect. (7) In the one form mercui'y is curative, in the other arsenic. Chambers, T. K.—On a case of Bloody Sweat. Lancet, March 2nd. The patient, a female, act. 27, had suffered for four yeai's from this affection, the catamenia having only appeared twice, and the general health being indifferent. The hccmorrhage commences as an erythema, the surface, after a sliort time, becomes covered with a crop of fine vesicles, and a serous dew, which soon becomes blood-stained and tlien is succeeded by actual blood drops. A feeling of soreness and tenderness precedes the 16