HEPOUT ON SURGERY. because pus makes pus, that Avliicli already exists maintains a pyogenic state of the synovial nicnihrane, and in lonf^-pi'otracted suppuratioji the deeper parts become involved, lie regards it as probable that, even Avithout the access of air, the products of disintegration of ])U8 may act deleteriously on the cartilages. Another beneficial eflect of evacua- tion by puncture is the relief of tension; some of the worst compli- cations in inflammation of joints are produced by a kind of strangu- lation. The infrequeucy of suppuration after luxations is cvplained by the lacerations of the capsular ligaments favouring the escape of the synovia and preventing over-tension. The indications for puncturing inflamed joints are precisely stated, and throughout the paper numerous cases are quoted in support of the author's opinions. Baewell, H.—A Treatise on Diseases of' the Joints, 8vo, John Churchill. Loose Cartilages. Pock, Dr. C.—Observations on the Origin of, and Operations for, Loose Cartilages in Joints. Langenbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts I and 2, p. 163. Fock places the origin of these loose bodies in the appendices of the synovial membrane, and shows by several successful cases that there is little danger in removing them through a direct incision, provided that a valvular wound is made by drawing the skin aside before dividing it, and air is effectually excluded by the most accurate adjustment of its edges. Fock places the limb on a spliut immediately after the operation, and never operates till any excitement present in the joint has been removed by rest in bed and other antiphlogistic measures. HuTCHisow, J. C.—Operation, for the removal of a Loose Cartilage from the Knee-joint. Amer. Med. Times, June 15th, p. 383. This was easily removed through a valvular incision, after au attempt to displace it, into the cellular tissue through a subcutaneous incision of the capsular ligament, had failed. Smart inflammation of the joint ensued, but the patient fortunately recovered without any impairment of its fuuctious. SQUAHa3, J.—On Loose Cartilages in the Knee-joint. Loudon Med. Eev., Oct. p. 163. A report of nine cases of this kind successfully treated by subcuta- neous incision of the synovial membrane and expulsion of the false cartilage into the cellular tissue outside the joint, whence it was removed after a few days, when the wound into the joint had healed. In none of these cases was the operation followed by pain, inflammation, or other serious symptoms. Square warmly advocates the superiority of this method over direct incision into the joint. In a large proportion of cases he thinks these loose bodies are the result of local injury.