KEPOIIT ON PEACTICAL 5IEDICIKK. inflamed firea around the clot. Lecture IV treats of the Rymptoms and diagnosis of wounds, softening, and abscess of tlie cerebellum. Brown- Scqnard finds no symptom tlint can serve to show that this organ is wounded e.\cept loss of sight, which has been observed in two or three instances. Bending of the head towards the injured side is not a si^n of injury of the cerebellum, but of its crura. Eleven cases of softening are cited, and the great dilierence between the symptoms is pointed out, not two of the cases being alike. They concur, however, in showing that in- flammatory softening of the cerebellum produces very different effects from softening of the cerebrum. The absence of referred or local sensa- tions or pains in the paralysed limbs, and of cramps, twitchings, &c., in cerebellar disease, are the chief points of difference. Headache, amaurosis, hemiplegia, paraplegia, are the symptoms oftenest observed. Simon.—On the Pharmacology of Quinine. Gaz. des Hopit., 126, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 166. Simon lays stress on the importance of giving quinine in such dose, and at such time, as that its physiological effects shall be developed simul- taneously with those of the disease. In some cases it produced in pretty full doses notable hsemoptysis. Reynolds, R.—On the Administration of Cannabis Indica. Arch, of Med., Jan., 1861. From the results of twenty-two cases, Reynolds concludes—(a) that Indian hemp is useless in mere functional, psychical, sensory, or motor disorders, without demonstrable organic change; {b) on the other hand, it is essen- tially beneficial in cases of congestion, softening, meningitis, or hasmor- rhage; (c) the drug appears to diminish the over-activity of the nerve- centres without disturbing the animal or vegetative functions. BoisoN (Bullet, de la Soc. de Med.de Gent., May and June) praises a pill of Musk gr. j, Ext. Digitalis gr. iss. Ext. Opii gr. ss, as having a magical effect on neuralgia. Becquerel, a.—On the Treatment of Neuralgias by Electric Currents. L'Union Med., Nos. i and 4. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 33. Becquerel maintains that a current of induced electricity passed through a nerve in its long axis will always cure neuralgia if the stream is sufii- ciently strong, and the intermissions very rapid. The apparatuses ordi- narily used are not powerful enough. FiiiEDBEiiG, H.—On the Cure of Pain in the Face by extraction of the Teeth. Virchow's Archiv, xvii, parts 5 and 6. Four cases were cured bv the extraction of teeth, which, though carious, had not been painful, while other carious teeth which had been painful were extracted without relief. Serhe.—On the good effects of Digitalis and Quinine in the treatment of Hemicrania. Serre has cured several long-standing cases, including his own ot fifteen years, by Debout's pill—Quinine gr. iss, and Digitalis gr. |, m a