4^4! IIEPOIIT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATEKIA MEDICA. siilpliiiric acid, rciliiccd l)y oviiporniioii, mikI trciiied uilh tllier containiii"- ammouiii, which hbeinies niid laUcs up the uicoliue. ° Strychnia. Guy.—On the Colour-tests for Strychnia, and the rliagnosis of the Alka- loids. Plinrninc, vol. ii, pp. 558, 602 ; and vol. iii, 11 luid 112. This pnperis founded on observations originally given to the prolession in the 'Croonian Lectures' for 1861. Dr. Guy proposes the four fol- lowing questions for solution :—(i) The best form'and mode of application of tile colour-tests. (2) Of the colour-tests, which is to be preferred? (3) Are tbc colour-tests, or is the selected test, open to any serious ob- jection ? (4) Is it possible, by means of the colour-tests, or by any simple modification of them, to distinguish the alkaloids from each other? To the first question he answers, that the best mode of applying tiie test is to dissolve the alkaloid in the acid, and then to add the colour-developing substance, and that it is best to use the acid concentrated, and the reagent in substance. He finds that, in testing for strychnia, permanganate of potash is the best reagent. In answer to the third question, the author's researches have led him to the conclusion, as regards strychnia, tiiat the evidence yielded by the colour-tests is open to no valid objection, and that the " development of a rich blue colour," "passing, after a few seconds, into other colours, affords undeniable proof of its presence." In pur- suance of the fourth branch of his inquiry, Dr. Guy has investigated the action of sulphuric acid (alone, and followed by the solution of per- manganate of potash) and nitric acid under various conditions of tempera- ture. On the results he has founded a classification of the alkaloids, which he believes will be found serviceable in the discrimination of these bodies. Tscu£PKE.—Case of Poisoning by Nitrate of Strychnia, Acetate of Mor- phia, Bitter Almonds, and the inhalation of Chloroform. Deut. Klin., No. X, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 26. An apothecary's pupil took eight to ten grahis of nitrate of strychnia in an ounce of Aqua Amygd. Amar. J^fo efifecfc following in half an hour, he took ten grains of acetate of morphia in another ounce of the same solvent. Ten minutes later he poured chloroform on his pillow, and lay down. This produced slight narcotism, which, however, passed off in a quarter of an hour. He then had twitches of the nose and wrists, but no pain. The patient tried to get up, but was unable. At a quarter to ten he was first seen. On being spoken to, he fell into a violent con- vulsion, on which Dr. Tschepke was sent for, and arrived at eleven. The eyes were then closed, the countenance pale, and the features rigid. On the patient's hand being grasped, his whole body was jerked up as if by an electric shock, the pulse l)ecame imperceptible, and respiration ceased. After a few minutes he opened his eyes (the pupils of which were dilated), and stretched out his hand to Dr. Tschepke, who thus was enabled to observe that his pulse was small and frequent. In answer to the question what poison he had taken, he lisped with difficulty "strychnia." Before an emetic could be adininislcred, a large quantity of a reddish liquid, containing white portions, was vomited, which smelt strongly of bitter almonds, and was found to consist of a pottage of hurtle-berries, and