JIEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP JfEDICINE. G8 motion, such as lever-movements, but only of the vibrations common to all tcuse structures. Pessel—Ort the SensibilUy of the Ear to the Pilch of Mmicnl Tones. Pogg. Ann., vol. cxi, p. 500. Canst., vol. i, pp. 9, 178. Pcssel lias inado the reiiiarkablo observation that tlie ears of the saiiu; person hear tlie same tone at diderent pitches. It is usually the riglit ear in which the tone sounds highest. The test is to lie made by applying to each ear one of two tuning-forks whicli an; as nearly as possible in unison. Battaille, Cn.—New Eesearches on Vocalimlion. Coinptes rendus, April 15th, 1861, p. 716. . The following are the results of, and inferences from, this author's inquiries :—(i) In the production of voice the vocal cords are invariably tense in the antero-posterior and supero-lateral (or ventricular) di- rections, though infero-laterally they may be slack (falsetto). (2) The insensible gradations of such tensity correspond to the varying pitch of the sounds produced. (3) The degrees of tension may become compensatoi'y of the varying force of the air-current. (4) The glottis closes posteriorly for a variable distance in voeali.sation, which, indeed, would be impossible without such closure. ( 5) The increase or dimi- nution of this occlusion may, like the varying tensity, compensate for lessened or intensified breath-current. (6) The progressive apposition of the arytenoid cartilages may take place either inferiorly, as in the chest-notes, or superiorly, as in the head-notes. (7) Intensification of the air-current tends to raise pitch by stretching the cords, but, if produced whilst one tone is maintained, it diminishes the tension and extends the rima backwards. "With regard to the comparative me- chanism of the natural and Msetto ranges, the author observes that in the chest-voice the glottis is linear, the arytenoid cartilages are in inferior contact, and the cords are tense in all their three regions aforesaid; whereas in falsetto the glottis is ellipsoid, the tartilages are in superior contact, and the infero-lateral region of the cords is relaxed. The very different extent of the singing-voice of diff"erent persons is thus ex- plained :—The progressive occlusion of the glottis is due to the meeting of the arytenoid cartilages, and, after them, to certain fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle which are inserted in and bring together the cords. During the approximation of the cartilages the elevation of the voice is easy, but if the muscular fibres just specified be feeble or absent, the whole strain will fall upon the mechanism destined to effect longitudinal tension. Now, all singers, it is added, who command an extensive range of chest-notes possess long arytenoid apophyses and Toluminous larynges, containing highly developed vocal cords, conditions under which longitudinal tension is less required. The tenor, barytone, or other character of a voice is due to special size, density, and intimate structure of the cords. In falsetto the sub-glottidean region relaxes, i.e. tlie vibrating surface is reduced a full thii-d. Thus, less tension will be necessary to produce a given high note, and, as the rima glottidis has simultaneously become further open behind, the arytenoid carti-