REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 186 ducts of the walls of the heart and arteries. In some rare instances it may, however, be produced by erosion or wound of a vein, and introduc- tion of sanious or other matter into the blood. As a general rule, emboHa arises in the venous system from the formation of a thrombus; in the arterial, from morbid conditions of the cardiac and vascular walls. The seat of venous embola is limited, because they cannot pass beyond the next capillary plexus in the course of the circulation, while arterial embola may be found in almost all parts of the body, (i) Venous embola in the hepatic ramifications of the portal vein are, on the whole, rare; they are mostly observed in Iisemorrhoidal thrombosis after operations on the rec- tum, in periproctitis, ulcerating cancer, or decay of the coagulum of an hsemorrhoidal varix. They rarely originate from thrombosis in any other parts of the intestinal tract, but sometimes from disease of structures behind the peritoneum surrounding the portal vein and its branches. The symptoms of this affection are various, and usually obscured by those of the primary disease. Sudden pain in the region of the liver, jaundice, and swelling of the liver, are said to be characteristic, but the diagnosis can only be justified when some cause capable of giving rise to thrombus previously existed. (2) Embola in the ramifications of the pulmonary arteries mostly come from the branches of the inferior cava, from a crural or uterine-vein thrombosis ; less frequently from the superior cava or the right heart. The thrombus of a crural vein may become adherent to the wall by secondary inflammation, or be gradually broken up into molecular masses, which cause no furtlftr injuiy to the organism, or it may induce embolia in consequence of suppurative inflammation in cachectic systems, causing rapid disintegration, or as the result of strong exercise or of dis- placement by the examiner. The blood-current itself may also detach particles from a thrombus, especially if it project from the right iliac into the inferior vena cava. Embolia from thrombosis of the uterine veins scarcely occurs except in puerperal metrophlebitis or metritis. The effects pro- duced by an embolon in the pulmonary artery are very various. If it is large enough suddenly to arrest the flow of blood to the lungs, death en- sues almost instantaneously, with phenomena of cyanosis and asphyxia. One pulmonary artery may, however, be obstructed without any striking symptoms being produced. Smaller embola are generally arrested at the point of bifurcation of an arterial branch, and, increasing by fresh deposits, at last produce anaemia of the capillaries to which the branch leads, and hypersemia in the collateral branches. The result of this is serous effu- sion in the pulmonary parenchyma, or the formation of a larger or smaller patch of apoplectic extravasation, or pneumonia, or gangrene. Acute pulmonary oedema is especially apt to occur when a largish vessel is sud- denly obstructed. Apoplectic extravasation occurs under similar circum- stances when the pulmonary capillaries are very fragile and the heart's action increased. Pneumonia and gangrene are believed by Oppolzer to result, not from obstruction of the pulmonary, but of the bronchial arteries. Cases do occur in which a considerable-sized embolon produces none of the above-mentioned changes. (3) The results of embolia in an artery depend on the size of the plug, and on the size and number of the communicating collateral branches. If the latter do not sufl5ce to carry on the circulation, the part deprived of blood mortifies, mummifies, while at the same time the hyperscmia produced in the adjacent parts issues in