UEPOH.T ON THE INSTITUTES OF MHDTCINE. 42 which IS Jio doulit due to the action of tlie ganglia of tlie liearfc, ko that the state of irritation or over-cxcitcmont, which is produced in one of the nerves, is transmitted to the three others; but it is not possible to exhaust permanently the other three by over-excitation of one nerve singly, as stimulants, Avhich would be powerful enough to eficct this, would soon kill the excited portion of the one nerve, and, therefore, lose their effect upon the other three; such an effect being only possible as long as the nerve acted upon retains part, at least, of its excitability. Keatjse, W.—Anatomicctl Eesearches on ihe modes of termination of tlie nerve fibres. Hannover, 1861, 8vo., pp. 1—98. Canst., vol. i, p. 56. (i) The author confirms (in the sheep) Herbst's unique observation, that Paccinian corpuscles do Kometiraea occur in connexion witli muscular nerves. (2) He finds that on an average about five of these corpuscles are connected with the nervous twigs entering the nipple in both sexes. (3) From his owu minute researches, and the inquiries of others, he concludes that, besides tlie cutaneous nerve twigs, ending about the hair follicles, and in the Paccinian corpuscles, some scattered fibrils are to be found terminating in tactile corpuscles. (4) In the sensitive mucous tracts (conjunctival, buccal, and genital), Paccinian corpuscles are absent, whilst iu place of the tactile bodies there occurs a super- ficial system of roundish terminal knobs, distinguished from the former by an absence of transverse striation. On the outer margin of the lip, these Imobs are mingled with scattered tactile corpuscles or forms ti'au- sitional thereto, whilst Paccinian bodies are absent. (5) In most mamma- lian orders, both the tactile corpuscles and the simpler terminal knobs are represented by oval bodies analogous to the latter, occurring not only in the mucous membranes, but iu the skin of the soles of the feet, where, in the squirrel, they lie under as well as in the papillae. They have been met with in the skin of the trunk (mouse). Paccinian corpuscles are found in the soles of the feet uf some mammalia, and under the mucous membrane of the clitoris. Iu the human conjunctiva bulbi, there are, on an average, two terminal Icnobs in a square line. (6) With reference to Hitter's intra-columnar retinal filaments, Krause abstains from pronouucing whether they ought to be regarded as natural structures or as the effects of immers- ing the eye iu acids. He also suspends his judgment Avith regard to the nervous or non-nervous nature of the rods and cones of the retina. (7) The fine anastomosing nervous trunks found throughout the human intestine, are connected with the muscular layer by offsets of some thick- ness, whilst single fibrils proceed to the interglandular spaces. The latter are supposed by the author to supply the smooth muscles of the mucous membrane and of the villi, and the former to proceed to the fibres of the muscular coat. The ganglia associated with the plexuses, contain from ten to thirty nucleated cells. The mode in which these nerves terminate remains inscrutable. KiiirxE.—Note on a New Organ of the Nervous Bxjstem,—Comptes ]{cndus, Teb. i8th, 1861, p. .316. With the object of ascertaining how the nerves terminate in muscles.