llEPOUT OX TOXICOLOGY AND MATEUTA MEDICA. 416 by one of metallic arsenic, is readily obtained either from solutions of arsenic acid or from organic substances containing arsenic which have been destroyed by chlorate of potash and hydrochloric acid. It was further found, that wlien organic substances containing both arsenic and antimony treated as above were introduced into the cell, antimoniuretted hydrogen was evolved in the first instance free from arseniuretted hydro- gen ; and that, on the subsequent addition of sulphuretted hydrogen, the latter was given off free from the former. The process thus affords a means of successively detecting both metals. LiPPEKT.—0« Reinsch's method of detecting Arsenic. Journ. f. prakt. Chem., vol. Ixxxi, p. 172. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 78. Lippert demonstrates that the deposit is not, as has hitherto been sup- posed, pure arsenic, but an alloy having the constitution Cn^As. Heated in a current of hydrogen, the deposit loses arsenic and is transformed into a white alloy, having the constitution CugAs, identical with that of the mineral domeykite. Reynolds.—Case of Poisoning by Arsenic near Wakefield, with remarks on Dr. Taylor s new process. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 511. A single lady (whose household consisted of herself and two servants, a man and a maid) suffered at various periods, and particularly during the week preceding her deatli, from the symptoms of gastro-enteritis. Subse- quently a suspicion arose that these symptoms, which had been attributed by the medical attendant to natural disease, were caused by poison, in con- sequence of which the body was exhumed by order of the coroner. The viscera and their contents were placed in the bauds of Mr. Nunneley for analysis, who gave evidence that the pathological appearances were such as the administration of arsenic would account for, and that arsenic was found in all the viscera examined. It having been stated at the inquest by a medical practitioner who had also examined certain of the organs, that no arsenic was present, the body was re-exhumed previously to the trial, by order of the Home Secretary. A second'analysis of the remaining viscera was performed by Mr. Nunneley, who found arsenic throughout the whole body, even in the brain and uterus. An independent analysis of parts of the liver, kidneys, lungs, and intestines, was made by Mr. Reynolds, who also obtained the clearest evidence of the presence of arsenic. Alleged Poisoning by Arsenic. Pharmac, vol. ii, p. 614. At the coroner's inquest on the body of a child supposed to have been poisoned, evidence was given by a medical practitioner to the effect that by Reinsch's process he had obtained proof of the presence of arsenic in the contents of the stomach and intestines, as well as in the viscera. He had added ammonio-sulphate of copper and ammonio-nitrate of silver to liquids containing organic matter, and obtained what he supposed to be characteristic reactions. He had made other equally inconclusive experi- ments, on which he founded the opinion that arsenic had been admi- nistered. The organs were subsequently sent to Mr. Horsley, who found that they contained no arsenic. Poisoning by Arsenic.—Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. 385, 386, 485, 486, 535, 582 ; vol. iii, p. 198.