ItEPOllT OX SURGERY. bleeding. 26th,—The aucurismnl sac was laid open, having suppurated. After tliis lueuiorrhagc occurred several times from the first wound, and could not be arrested notwithstandiug that the femoral artery was exposed as high as Poupart's ligament, and all bleeding points were secured. No post-mortem examination was allowed. Cantox.— Aneurimn of tlie Femoral Artery; ligature of the trunk above it; fatal result. Lancet, May 25th, p. 512. A carpenter, a)t. 29. The tumour three and a half inches long and two inches broad, at the lower and inner part of the thigh, extended be- neath tbe tendon of the adductor magnus muscle into the ham. It had been noticed only one month. November 3rd,—Canton tied the super- ficial femoral artery at the lower part of Scarpa's space. 7th,—Py- rexia. 9th,—Slight haemorrhage from the wound. 12th,—More bleeding. i4tb,—Pain and swelling of right shoulder and elbow. i6th,—Death from exhaustion. Paget.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery at the Groin; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. Lancet, June ist, p. 531. A sawyer, a3t. 32, strumous and rheumatic. The tumour, the size of a small hen's egg, was situated just below Poupart's ligament. The ligature came away on the eighteenth day. The patient left St. Bartholomew's Hospital four months afterwards. The condition of the aneurism is not stated. King.—Anetmsm of the Femoral Artery; ligature of the external iliac ; suppuration of the sac, and death two months afterwards. Med. Times and Gaz., April 13th, p. 387. A warehouseman, set. 42. The aneurism, just below Poupart's liga- ment, was as large as filled the palm of the hand. A silver-wire ligature was used. Paget.—Aneurism of the Femoral Artery; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. Mecl. Times and Gaz., April 2otb, p. 419. Solly.— Aneurism of the Femoral Artery ; ligature of the external iliac; recovery. lb. Erichsen.— Buptured Femoral Aneurism ; ligature of the external ■iliac. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. loth, p. 136. Holt.—False Aneurism of the Femoral Artery in Hunter''s Canal; opera- tion hy cutting into the aneurism, and tying loth ends of the wounded vessel; subsequent inflammation of the knee-joint; recovery. Lancet, June 22nd, p. 609. J • 4.1 A servant lad, jet. 18, received a thrust with a bcated iron rod in the inner and back part of his thigh. Blood spurted profusely from the wound, but soon stopped flowing, and the thigh became swollen. Seven- teen weeks afterwards, when he came under Holt's care, the swellmg reacbed from three inches below Poupart's ligament nearly to the knee, and involved nearly two thirds of the circumference of the limb. It was elastic and fluctuated obscurely, but did not pulsate. A bruit was heard about half way down, and again where the superficial femoral artery