73 RESPIBATOBY SYSTEM. A perfect means of resuscitation ought, therefore, to be successful up to, at least, a period of twenty minutes after death. There are four methods at present known by which endeavours have been made to produce reaniination:—(i) Artificial respiration. (2) Galvanism. (3) Injection into blood-vessels. (4) Artificial circulation. Artificial respiration is almost a certain means of restoration when the action of the heart has not stopped; but if the heart has ceased, then the process, however long continued, is of no avail, inasmuch as the column of blood which should be passing from the heart to the lungs is checked, and no blood is presented to the air which the patient is made to inspire. The author gave the results of sixty experiments in which he had employed common air, and of several other experiments in which difterent substances, such as oxygen, chlorine, oxy-hydrogen, and ozone, had been mixed with the air lised; but in all these cases the results were negative, because the action of the heart had stopped. There was, nevertheless, this great fact to be remembered, that in instances where the respiration had ceased, the influence of artificial respiration in restoring the failing heart is materially increased by making use of an air heated to 130° Fahrenheit. Dr. Richardson therefore suggests that in all receiving houses for persons Avho may have been drowned, or acci- dentally killed by other means, a hot-air bath should always be kept ready, in which the patient should be at once placed, and tlie air of which should be used for artificial respiration. Galvanism, as applied to purposes of resuscitation, was first iTsed by Aldini; but the galvanic current was generally applied in a very empi- rical manner. The two important points to be solved were—(«) Whether galvanism could be used to start the respiration ? (h) Whether it could be used to start the heart after that had stopped ? The author had made numerous inquiries on these points, and came definitely to the conclusion that galvanism, however carefully applied, tends to exhaust rather than to restore the heart, and that although it might be made to induce respiration by directing the current in intermittent shocks through the chest, from the laryux to the diaphragm, yet that the mus- cular exertion it produced exhausted the muscular force more quickly than the mere rest or natural death of the muscle. Dr. Richardson, at this point, exhibited some newly constructed apparatus which he had used in hia researches. The idea of injecting fluids into the blood- vessels as a means of restoration was first thrown out in the seventeenth century. Recently it had been shown by Dr. Brown-Sequard that the injection of blood into the limbs of the dead subject would restore muscular irritability for a long time after dissolution, and even after rigidity. The author had himself determined that, three hours after death, in inferior animals, active muscular movements could be excited by the injection of water heated to a temperature of 115° to 120°. P. The injection of fluids into the blood-vessels (arteries) might there- fore be turned to account; but there were certain practical difiiculties in the way, for if blood were to be used there would be difficulty of ob- taining it in every case, and all other fluids which the author had tried produced too destructive an effect on the blood remaining in the body to prove of effective service. The author had tried the injection of