887 TUMOURS EXTERNAL TO UTERUS. ScHMiTZ.—C«5e of Labour in a Woman affected with Oateo-malakia. Scanz. Beit., vol. iv, p. 42. , , , , , j , . During her fif'ili pregnancy a woman, who had had good labours pre- viously, became affected with osteo-malakia of the pelvic bones to such a degree tliat the Csesarean section, it was thought, would be necessary. Labour, however, set in ; the pains were severe, and the child was forced through, the bones yielding to the pressure. The child was thus delivered (dead) naturally. The mother did well. Cruger.—On the influence of the anterior Pelvic Wall on the Mechanism of Labour, especially in slight narrowing of the Pelvis. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., 1861, p. I. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE UTERUS. Simpson, Prof.—On Cauliflower Excrescence of the Uterus during Preg- nancy. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861, p. 762. In a patient, pregnant, the subject of this disease, labour was induced at the end of the eighth month. The patient died of puerperal phlebitis three days after, but the child was saved. The author considers the best treatment of such cases, when the diseased mass is very unyielding, is to incise the tumour at each side, in preference to craniotomy. Keating, Dr.—Large interstitial, cancerous Tumour of the Impregnated Uterus, rendering Delivery impossible. Am. Med. Journ., April, 1861, p. 405. The patient died after being in labour nine days, attended with fearful sufferings. The nature of the obstruction was not diagnosticated during life. The CcEsarean section was not performed, because none of the conditions laid down by authorities as indicating that operation were ascertained to be present. The foetus was found in a state of decompo- sition ; the OS uteri, cartilaginous, hardly admitted two fingers ; portions of vagina and uterus in a state of sphacelus. The lower globe of the uterus was found to be an immense interstitial, cancerous tumour, five and a half inches in transverse diameter, six and a half vertically. Cra- niotomy was attempted, but the narrowness of the os prevented its effectual performance. Dilation of the os was also attempted, but could not be performed. Dubois and Pa jot.—On Rigidity of the Os Uteri during Labour. Gaz. des Hop., Feb. i6th, 1861. Dubois recommends minute incisions in cases of labour impeded by the presence of spasmodic rigidity of the os uteri. TUMOURS EXTERNAL TO UTERUS IMPEDING DELIVERY. Spatit, Prof.—Pedunculated Fibroid on the peritoneal surface of the Fundus Uteri. Wien. Zt., 10, 1860. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 57. This is a iiighiy interesting case. The patient, set. 38, became preg- nant in-Apnl, 1859, and on January 29tli, i860, the pains of labour set in. The pelvis was found occupied by a hard, resisting mass, the size of a