DISEASES OF WOMEN. 379 Wells, Spencer.—Fma^e Bladder showing the results of Retention of Urine after Delivery. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The coats of the bladder were loose iu the cavity; a mass composed of the whole of the mucous membrane detached was found. It was con- sidered tliat death occurred, and these results followed, in consequence of the catheter not having been sufficiently promptly used. Wells, Spenceb.—^ Cast of the Female Bladder. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Sims, Dr. Marion.—Clinical Lecture on the Operations for Fesico-vaginal Fistula, delivered at La Charite Hospital, Paris. Gaz. Hebd., Nov. 22nd, 1861. The principal points insisted on by the author are—that the best posi- tion for the patient is the lateral, that the edges of the fistula should be well pared, that the sutures should be numerous. BozEMAN.—Urethro-vaginal, Vesico-vaginal, and Recto-vaginal Fistulce, ^c. New Orleans, i860. The results of treatment by wire sutures in thirteen cases, are here re- corded. A permanent closure was obtained in nine out of these. Wells, Spenceb.—Lecture on Vesico-vaginal and Recto-vaginal Fistula. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 31st, Sept. yth and 14th, 1861, pp. 223, 256, 275. The author describes the various instruments and manoeuvres which have been used for the closure of these fistulae. The use of the simple wire suture, without clamps or bars, the avoiding injury to the mucous membrane of the bladder, the bevelling of the edges of the newly made raw surface, careful after-treatment,—these are the points insisted on. The lecture is copiously illustrated by woodcuts. Brown, Baker.—On Fesico-vaginal Fistida. Lancet, Nov. 23rd, 1861, p. 494. The method pursued of late by this operator for the cure of vesico- vaginal fistula is here described. Clamps and buttons are rejected, and the only apparatus used to maintain the apposition of the pared surfaces is the wire simply twisted round by the fingers or by the forceps. Seven additional cases form the subject of this paper, of which five were cured by the first operation. Duncan, Dr. Matthews.—The Operation for Fesico-vaginal Fistida. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, 1861, p. 520. Great and unnecessary complications have been introduced into the operation. The operation consists simply in paring the edges of the fistulous opening, uniting them by interrupted silver sutures, and keeping the bladder empty of urine until union has taken place. The duck-bill speculum and the sigmoid catheter are recommended. CoLLis, Maurice II.—Further Remarks upon a new and successful mode of treatment for Fesico-vaginal Fistula. Dubl. Quart. Journ., May, 1861, p. 302. '