341 ABKORM-VL CONDITIONS OF THE PLACENTA^ ETC. The author believes that the old practice of turning and delivering by the feet, without disturbing the connexions of the placenta any more than is necessary for the purpose, must, after all, be our mam resort, the method most likely to he required in the large mass of cases. The general results of the inquiry are stated as follows:—The danger to the mother increases as the pregnancy advances; it is less when the os is completely covered, least of all when the attachment is central. As regards prognosis, the condition of the patient is a better guide than the actual quantity of blood lost. The pains being vigorous, head presen- tation, OS in good condition, and strength not impaired, rupturing the membranes is in most cases sufficient to stop hsemorrhage. Artificial delivery increases danger to mother, but this is because it has been per- formed when the patient was in a very feeble condition ; hence the im- portance of early artificial interference. If artificial delivery be impos- sible from rapidly failing condition or other reasons, the placenta should be totally separated and remedies (transfusion one of them) used to restore patient to a condition admitting of operation. The transfusion is very valuable, but we must recollect that there is a fear of its action inducing a temporising policy in some cases which are not suited for it. Ergot is not to be given when there is a probabiUty of necessity for operative procedures. SiRELius, Dr.—On Placenta Prcsvia ; its natm-e and treatment. 8vo, Ilelsingfors, 1861. Extracts from this memoir are published in the Arch. Gen. de Med. for September and October, 1861. A point in the anatomy of the placenta, to the substantiation of which the author has devoted some attention, and to which he attributes con- siderable importance, is the dipping inwards of the cellular layer of the decidua between the placental cotyledons. The decidua sends pro- cesses downwards as far as the foetal aspect of the placenta. Thus it is impossible, he contends, for the maternal blood to pass from one cotyledon to another. Thomas, Dr. T. Gaillard.—Placenta Prcevia. Am. Med. Times, Jan. 19th, 1861. If the OS is dilatable and the patient not exhausted, delivery by the forceps or version is recommended. If os dilatable and patient exhausted, a part or the whole of the placenta should be detached, styptics applied, and stimulants given. If the os be rigid and the patient not exhausted, the portion of the placenta nearest the cervix to be detached, styptics, and the tampon or colpeurynter, employed, if necessary. If the OS be rigid and exhaustion present, the whole or part of placenta to be detached, styptics applied, and stimulants given. Clay, Dr. Ciiaki.es.— Observations on Placenta Prcevia. Glasg. Med. Journ., July, 1861, p. 129. Tlie author contends that the results of experience conclusively show that iu the treatment of placenta prsevia the mortality is infinitely less in cases where the placenta is separated than in cases where version and immediate extraction arc performed. Ilijemorrhage is slopped by the separation nineteen times out of twenty. The child survives once in five 23