256 KEPOUT ON SUKGEllY. Watsos.—Fatal case of Traclieotomy in Croup. Edin. Med. Journ Feb., p. 678. ' Miner, J. F.—Tracheotomy in Croup; death. Amer. Med. Times Jan. 19th, p. 43. ' This Avas performed in the last stage of the disease. After death, Avhich took place thirty-one hours after the operation, croupous exudation was found in the trachea and smallest bronchial tubes. Fabbe.—Cm^/j; Tracheotomy; death four tveeJes afterwards. Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 34th, p. 187. Hajmorrhage on the twenty-sixth day after the operation was the immediate cause of death. The tracheal mucous membrane was very vas- cular, and on the posterior wall were several small ulcers. There was also a large abscess in the anterior mediastinum, and evidences of recent pleuro-pneumonia and pericarditis. Badclipee, Dr. — Tioo cases of Cynanche Trachealis ; Tracheotomy in the second, followed hy death twenty four hours after. Lancet, April i3tb, p. 339. Jojtes, Dr. H.—Four cases of Cynanche Trachealis; Tracheotomy per- formed in two, with recovery in one. lb. EES, Dr. V.—Cynanche Trachealis, siibseqxiently velapsing into Sron- chitis; recovery. Lancet, April 13th, p. 360. In three of these seven cases tracheotomy was performed, with one recovery. Of the four remaining cases, two lived. Bronchotomy for the removal of Foreign Bodies. MooEE, Dr. Adamson.—Stone in the Trachea. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, p. 39. On the fifth day the child was first brought into the hospital, and turned head downwards; this was repeated two days afterwards, but without success. The trachea was then opened, and the point of the knife struck the stone. Immediately there was a convulsive efibrt at swallowing, and the stone probably got into the stomach, for next day it was passed in a stool. The child died on the second day after the operation. Padlet, G-.—Two cases of Foreign Bodies in the Air-passages. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th, p. 7. Chittenden, G-. W.—Foreign Substance in the Larynx; Tracheotomy. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., April 25th, p. 267. A pin. It slipped from a forceps introduced into the larynx through the wound, and was expelled by cough. ToMSON, J. J.—On the use of Looped Wire in the removal of Foreign Bodies from the Air-passages, with a report of two cases. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. lath, p. 25. In two cases of tracheotomy, where all previous attempts to seize the foreign bodies (in one case a piece of clay pipe, in the other a grain of corn) with forceps had failed, Tomson succeeded in Avithdrawiug them