18 REPORT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. oi the muscles, whicli during life have an alkaline one, though these wai/ (as in btarvcd rabbits) stiffen whilst they are still alkaline. (2) AVhilat the excitable nniscle is transparent, tlie rigid is (in the frog) white and opaque. A muscle continues transparent some time after its irrita- bility is gone, and at this stage, restoration of the circulation renews its contractility, a fact which gave rise to the statement that rigid muscles may recover their activity. If the hinder half of a living frog be immersed in oil at 104°, the rigor caloris produced in the hind limbs does not yield for even four or five weeks after the immersion. (3) The fluid expressed from bloodless muscles is alkaline, and some time after its extraction j)recipitates an albuminous coagulum ; whence the autlior infers that rigor mortis depends on coagulation of tbis substance. The article " On the Chemical Irritation of Muscles and !Nerves, <fec.," is occupied with a critique of the strictures made by Wundt, Schelske, and Funke, on a similar paper, reported in last' Tear Book,' p. 23. With reference to the effects of woorara, the author found that of a specimen obtained by Carray from the Ticunas Indians, on the banks of the Orinoco, -xs^^-^ of a grain suflBced to poison a frog. Ib his observations he employed a solution of one milligram in one cubic centimetre of M'ater, which was inti'oduced under the skin, or into the abdomen. A frog thus treated becomes motionless in a few minutes. " Tetanization" of the spinal cord or of the nerves causes no spasm. Tested with electric currents the sartorius is found to be most susceptible near the entry of the nerve, less so in the adjoining regions, and least of all ,iu the parts destitute of nerves. The irritability is inferior to that of the healthy muscle. If one niac artery be ligatured before, and the other after, the poisoning, the nerveless portions of both sartorii are equally ii'ritable, whereas in the nervous tracts the impoisoued muscle is the more sensitive. But if the nerve of the latter be brought into a state of an- electrotone, the muscle no longer replies to oui-rents which contract the poisoned one. The iutra-muscular nerves tire therefore assumed to remain unafl'ected. Concentrated glycerine applied to a section of the nerveless spots of the poisoned muscle produces contractions, which is not the case in the healthy muscle. Nervous sensibility, after its sus- pension by woorara poisoning or arrest of circulation, is observed to return in a centripetal direction. Aebt, Cn.—On the 82oeed tviih tvhich Muscular Contraction is Projja- gated: Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., p. 253, 1860. Canst., vol. i, pp. 5, 165. Prom experiments made by means of a peculiar apparatus on the fe- moral adductor muscles of the frog, the author finds that muscular contraction is transmitted at the rate probably, of less than a yard per second. Contractions resulting from excitement of the nerve appear to commence at the terminal distribution of its branches, pro- ceeding in the adductors from the ends towards the middle, and in the gastrocnemius from the lower to the upper end. BEOWN-S(iQTjAHT), Dv.— On ilie Belalions letweeii Muscular Irritabilifi/, Cadaveric Biffiditi/,and Putrefaction. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 44, p._204. This paper formed the subject of the Croonian Lecture, and in it I