liKI'OIlT OS THE IMS'I'ITUTES OF MKDICINE. 40 I is) Grangliii cxtcusivdy injured cease to transmit imprcsijionb. (6) All the gauglionary ncrvc-n are sensible, though unequally so, and thty are less sensitive than the ganglia themselves. (7) Tiieir sensibility diminishes as their tenuity increases. (8) The lllameuts communi- oatiug Avith the cerebro-spinal system are most sensible; those con- necting the ganglia are less so, and the visceral nerves least of all. (8) The sensibility of the nerves is most readily aroused by pinching. EosENTnAt, J.—On the injluence of the J^iieumo-Gastric and the Supe- rior Laryngeal Nerves on the movements of tlic Diaphragm. Comptes llendus, April 15th, 1861, p. 7154. This physiologist announces that irritation of the superior laryngeal nerve arrests the movements of the diaphragm. If the proximal portion of the pneumogastric nerve, cut below the origin of the superior laryn- geal, be excited by electric currents of medium intensity, the diaphragm becomes strongly contracted; whereas by irritation of the laryngeal it is relaxed. Very weak currents applied to the pneumogastric cause remarkable acceleration of the respiratory movements, whilst, applied to the laryngeal, they constantly slacken them. Powerful currents acting upon either nerve, lilvewise arrest the movements of the diaphragm, sometimes in a contracted, sometimes in a relaxed condition. The author thinks it highly probable that those fibres of the superior laryn- geal, the excitation of which suspends diaphragmatic movement, are the same as confer sensibility on the mucous membrane of the larynx and cause cough; for, during cough, the diaphragm is always relaxed. The pneumogastric, splanchnic, and superior laryngeal appear to be the inhibitory nerves of the heart, intestine, and diaphragm, respectively; but whilst the influence of the two former takes a centrifugal direction, that of the latter is propagated centripetally. Waller, Dr. AuarsTtrs. JSxperimental Besearches on4he Functions of the Vagus and the Cervical Si/mpathetie Nerves in Man. Proc. lloy. Soc, No. 44, p. 302. .... The object of this memoir is to point out some results obtained by irritating the vagus and cervical sympathetic in man, in such a way as not only to ascertain their fimctions in a state of health, but also their condition in disease, and in various functional derangements to which they are subject. The method employed was mechanical irritation by simple pressure on the trunk of the nerve. Moderate pressure gave rise—(i) To the sensation of want of breath, which was followed by deep and laboured inspiration. (2) The heart's action became distiu-bed. (3) Uneasiness over the stomach, in some cases amounting to a feeling of nausea. (4) Tingling of the corresponding ear. (5) Dilatation of the pupil occurred once. All these symptoms quickly disappear after the removal of the pressure, but leave a feeling of lassitude and lowness of spirits, which may last for some hours. "Waller, Dr. Augtjsttjs.—On the Sensory, Ifotory, and Vaso-Motory Symptoms, resulting from the Refrigeration of the Ulnar Nerve. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 46, p. 436. The foUowiug are the principal results Waller obtained :—(i) The