REPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 832 Lee, Dr. IRoB^m.—C/tnical Midwifery.—m-A. Times and Gnz., July 20th, Aup;. 171I1, Nov. 2nrl, Nov. pih, 1861, pp. 54, 156, 451, 474. Tins is a continuntion of the series (Cases 679 to 741 inclusive) of " consultation " c.nses published in the same journal, reftrence to which will be found in 'Year Book' for 18.59 '^"'^ 1^60. Ltjmpe.—Cases in Obstetric Practice. Oesterr. Ztsch. f. prakt, Heilk., vi, 43, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 310. A case of eclampsia, of pregnancy combined with medullary cancer of the vagina, a case of twins, and a case of uterine fibroid with amenorrhoea. CoPEMAN, Dr.—Rare Cases in Midwifery. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 9th, 1861, p. 495. The first was a case of oedema from pressure impeding delivery; the second a case of occlusion of the os uteri, in which an opening was made by scraping by the finger-nail; the third case was one of obstructed labour from congenital hydrocephalus. GENEEAL ANATOinr AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MOTHER AND FCETUS. LiTZMANN.—The forms of the Pelvis, especially of the narrow Female Pelvis; together with an appendix on Osteo-malaJcia. 4to, Berl., 1861. This is an account of the vnriations preseuted by the female pelvis as regards measurement, &c., based on a very extended series of investiga- tions, and illustrated by drawings. The author examined 1000 women at tlie lying-in institutions of Kiel, and found that in 14 per cent, of these there was what might be termed a narrow pelvis present. The results of the measurements made are given in full detail. The causes of the variations observed are systematically discussed. The author classifies the various forms observed under a number of heads. Thus we have the flat pelvis, characterised by narrowing of conjugate diameter, and of which there are two forms, the simple flat pelvis and the rickety flat pelvis. An extreme case, the generally narrowed, flat pelvis, forms a third sub- division. The next basis of division is contraction in the transverse diameter, the sacrum being narrow, and in bad cases inseparably con- nected with the adjoining bones. Next we have the obliquely distorted pelvis, due to lateral spinal curvatures, excessive use of one leg, from whatever cause, or originating at a more early period in defective develop- ment of one side of the sacrum. Lastly, the " compressed" form of pelvis is described. (Respecting the appendix on "osteo-malakia," see P- 33<5.) NivET.—On the Functions of the Placenta. Gaz. Hebd., 1861, 5. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 51. Braun, Prof.—On Superfoetation. Wien. Ztschrift., 6, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 54. Braun believes that the hypothesis of superfoetation is not tenable in face of the results of careful examination of the parts of the ovum. A case is related bearing on this question.