27'G HEPORT ON suncEny. Bauer, Dr. L.—CW of PerioslUis of Ihe left Thirjli-hone, with consecu- tive Synovitis and Fibrous Anchyloniis of the correspondinrj Hip.joint; contractions of Ihe sartorius, tensor varjince femoris, and external diiplicatitre of the vayincefemoris muscles; successful treatment by brisement force and myotomy of the contracted muscle. The account of tliis case is illustrated by two woodcuts. Bauek, L., and Wualey.—C«ses of Contraction and Fibrous Anchylosis of Joints. Amer. Med. Times, March 9th, p. 161. Clinical remarks, in which the forcible disrupture of adhesions and straiglitening of the limb, after previous division of any opposing tendons, are recommended. The Operative Treatment of Anchylosis of Temporo-maxillary Joint. EsMABCii, r.—Formation of an Artificial Joint on account ofimmove- ability of the Jaw-joint. Beitriige ziir praktischen Chirurgie, 2 Heft., Kiel, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5. p. 204. In cases where the lower jaw is immoveably fixed by contracted cicatrices (as those which follow cancrum oris) Esmarch has practised with great success the formation of an artificial joint by cutting out a piece of the bone in front of the cicatrix. DiTTIi.—Anchylosis of the Siyht Maxillary Joint, of fifteen years' duration, successfully treated by the above method. Oester. Ztschr. f. Prak. Heilk., v, 43, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, Jso. 5, p. 205. Vekneuil, a.—A Memoir on the above subject. Arch, gen., 50 ser., xv, pp. 174, 284, Fevr., Mars, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 206. Diseases of the Hip-joint. Post, A. C.—Discussion on the treatment of Morbus Coxariu^. Amer. Med. Times, April 27th, p. 279; May 4th, p. 297; nth, p. 309; 25th, p. 344. A discussion on the pathology and treatment of diseases of the hip- joint, at the New York Academy of Medicine. The occurrence of tubercular infiltration of the cancellated tissue of the head of the femur was denied by Bauer and Sayre, who had examined a large number of specimens with this particular object. There was a general concm-reuce of opinion in favour of the treatment by extension and counter-extension in all stages of the disease, and splints and apparatus specially con- trived for this purpose were described by Drs Davis, Bauer, and Sayre. Besection of the joint was strongly deprecated by Dr. J. "Watson. Patients, according to his experience, rarely died of morbus coxarius; in the last twenty-five years he had not seen more than three fatal cases. Hughes, J. S.—Clinical observations on Morbus Coxa, or the Chronic and Scrofulous Diseases of the IBp-joint. i\mo. 6d.