437 OTHEE AT:GETABLE PRODUCTS. accounted for by his Imving nccidentally missed those portions which con- tained the poison. The youngest child, set. 3, who vomited very freely shortly after swallowing the poison, escaped the more severe symptoms subsequently e.xperienced by the others. Michel.—New observations on the disease communicated to man by the Irrovence Beed. Bull, de Ther., vol. Ixi, p. 169. The Reed of Provence {Arundo Donax), when in a marcescent state, becomes covered with a black powder (a fungus of which the structural character has not been determined), which is endowed with toxic proper- ties of great virulence. The inhalation or injection of the powder is followed by cough, dyspnoea, and frequently gastro-enteritis, indicated by epigastric pain, vomiting, and diarrhoea. These symptoms are accom- panied by the appearance of a papular exanthema on the face, which becomes enormously swollen, and, in most cases, by painful swelling of the organs of generation and erotic delirium. RjCHTER.—Poisoning by Secale Cornutum; abortion; medico-legal opinion on the same. Casper, vol. xx, p. 177. Neubeut.—Oji the same case. Journ. f. Pharraacodyn., vol. ii, p. 4. Dr. Neubert was sent for at seven a.m. on the 4th of May, to see a young woman of twenty-two, previously in robust health, who was stated to have suffered for two days from excessive thirst, anorexia, and occa- sional vomiting of coffee or chocolate-coloured matter. On being ques- tioned as to the cause, she answered, *' You'll soon see." Her countenance was pale, her pulse quick, and she was very restless. Consciousness was unimpaired, but she was very unwilling to answer questions. She com- plained urgently of abdominal and epigastric pain and of inability to pass water in spite of constant efforts. On exploration Dr. Neubert found a small child's head already at the outlet, and, after a few vigorous pains, a six months' foetus was born. The discharge of the placenta was immedi- ately followed by profuse haemorrhage, which was associated with insatiable thirst, frequent vomiting, violent jactitation, precordial pain, pallor, and coldness of the surface, the uterine contractions recurring at irregular intervals. This continued for half an hour, until unconsciousness and strabismus ushered iu death. The treatment consisted in the administra- tion of tincture of cinnamon (undiluted), with a very little laudanum, in doses of a teaspoonful frequently, and in the use of refrigerants externally. The most important post-mortem appearances were the following. The stomach contained about eight ounces of chocolate-coloured fluid, of acid smell and reaction. At the cardia the mucous membrane was markedly reddened, forming a ring of three or four lines in breadth. Numerous hsemorrhagic erosions were observed along the greater curvature, especially at the fundus, and immediately below the cardia an ecchymosis was recognised on incision, about the size of a sovereign. The mucous mem- brane generally was soft and brittle. The uterus was as large as a child's head ; its internal surface was generally reddened, and exhibited here and there patches of dark purple, especially in the neighbourhood of the cervix ; its tissue was impregnated with dark blood. The microscopical and chemical examination of the contents of the stomach afforded satia- 29