llEPOM OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. 343 cnses. The niitlior Btntcs liis conviction tlint he would consider any person reckless indeed of liumun life who would advocate turning and delivering in cases of placenta prajvia in preference to detaching the pla- centa, if at all aware of the ditference iu the statistical results. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—Clinical Lecture on the Treatment of Placenta Prcevia. Lancet, June ist, 1861, p. 1527. The author states that his views on the subject of the treatment of placenta praevia have been somewhat misunderstood. The separation of the placenta from the lower zone of the uterus cannot of itself arrest hiemorrliage ; there must be contraction of the uterine muscles. Whether the operation for partially detaciiing the placenta or other means be adopted, the contraction is the object to be secured. Two cases are related in order to illustrate the positions taken up. A third case is related to illustrate the treatment to be pursued when the cervical detacli- ment of the placenta and the evacuation of the liquor amnii may not be sufficient to produce full hsemostatic contraction of the uterus. In the case in question a caoutchouc dilator was introduced into the cervix (after detaching the placenta from the lower zone), water was injected into this; the cervix thus dilated, the membranes then ruptured, the child turned, and delivery effected. The dilatation by this method is far preferable to that by the hand, as there is less liability of producing pyaemia; the dilator is especially valuable where there is deficient uterine contraction from loss of blood, the patient being much exhausted; moreover, the dilator excites the uterus to contract. Woodman,"W. B.—Two cases of Placenta Prcevia treated by Br. Barnes's Method. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th, 1861, p. 405. In the first case no haemorrhage occurred after the artificial separation of the placenta. The child had, as it afterwards appeared, been some time dead. In the second case the haemorrhage'was very profuse; it was arrested by the separation. Turning was performed soon after, and the child extracted dead. Both mothers recovered. Roberts, Dr. D. Lloyd.—Clinical History of three cases of Placenta Prcevia in which Podalic Version was performed, Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861, p-' 707. The author draws the following conclusions from the three cases :— that if rigidity be absent, turning may be performed when the os is only the size of a shilling, and that it is unnecessary to wait until it be larger : that full and decided doses of laudanum, with Indian hemp, are beneficial in preventing the syncope from severe haemorrhage ; and that when the child is dead forcible extraction of the head, after turning, is un- called for. Manz (Freiburg.)—P/ffce«f« Prcevia, artificial Premature Labour, ^-c Aerzt. iAlit. a. Baden, 14, 7, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 56. An interestiug case. The child was stillborn, but was recov( after lapse of half an hour. The cord was pulseless for some time an*" to this.