GENERAL PATHOLOGY. 110 terior spiual nerve-roots and their ganglia in the lumbar region caused great swelling and hypersemia of the leg and thigh, Samuel reviews the various theories of inflammation, and concludes that the attraction theory is the only one that will bear criticism. He admits, however, that in cer- tain localized inflammations the irritation is conveyed to the tissue affected, not by the blood, but by nerves. WuNDEiaiCH, C. A.—Exposition of some elementary facts determined in Clinical Thermometry, and introduction to the ajiplication of the same toprivatcjiractice. Arch. d. Heilk., i860, part 5. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, p. 63. Wunderlich states his conclusions under twenty-seven heads, of which we give some of the most important. Although the normal temperature, 98-5° Fahr., is no guarantee of the existence of health, yet all elevation above 99*5°, or depression below 97'a5°, may indicate disease. Devia- tions from the normal temperature are never causeless or without signifi- cance, either in regard of their first appearance or their magnitude or the mode of their fluctuations. They are strictly regular, and result from determinate external influences on the one hand and internal morbid processes on the other. In a healthy person, the most various influences, so long as they do not cause disease, scarcely alter the temperature. The converse is also true; the discovery of accidental fluctuations of tempera- ture in persons who are normally warm is a means of recognising or con- firming the existence of disorders which would otherwise be latent. The more typical and developed morbid processes are, the more permanent are the changes in temperature which they produce. In abnormal eleva- tion of the temperature the degree attained at any given time must be considered, and also the changes that take place in it. Elevation of tem- perature is usually associated with disordered sensations, as of fatigue, heat, thirst, headache, chill, and with increased rapidity of the pulse; it may, however, coincide, even when amounting to four or five degrees, with a normal pulse and apparently perfect health. The degree of eleva- tion of temperature is a safer guide in judging of any case than the rate of the pulse. The temperature in almost all cases of disease in which it is elevated undergoes daily variations, which, in part, follow certain rules, in part are determined by the kind, stage, and severity of the disease, or by its aggravation or decline. Continuous regular observation of the pro- gress of the temperature through the whole course of a disease (febrile) affords the most important means of estimating it aright; and when con- tinued only throughout one period, it may still be our best guide iu diagnosis. Examination of the temperature curve of a disease indicates its periods and stages, the irregularities that are induced by various causes, and the certainty or non-certainty of its having terminated. A relapse, or some secondary disease, is to be expected if the temperature does not l)ermanently subside to the normal figure. Sinking of the temperature below the normal figure is not common ; it is observed temporarily during morning remissions, in states of acute collapse, iu chronic marasmus, sometimes in the agony. Adi.er, a.—Oft the Increase of the Temperature of the Body before and afta' Death. Wien. med. Wochenschr., No. 48, 18^9.