388 llEl'ORT ON MlDWll'EllY, ETC. An DREWS, Dr.—On Puerperal Convulsions. Lancet, Aug. lolh, 1861, Five cases of puerperal convulsions are here related. The patients sur- vived iu all the cases. JoLlCLERC.—Eclampsia; complete loss of consciousness for ftfty-six hours; death. Gaz. des Hop., Feb. 7th, 1861. Chloroform was used and the forceps applied ; a child was extracted, which had been dead three days. The motlier died. Sailly.—On Albuminuria as a means of diac/nosis of Epilepsy from the Eclampsia of Pregnant Wotnen. Gaz. des Hop., April 27111, 1861. GouiiiET.— Unusual case of Eclampsia; employment of Fumigations of Nitrate of Polash and Stramonium. Gaz. des H6p., April pth, 1861. Low, Dr. W. C.—Case of Puerperal Epileptic Convulsions. Ed. Med, Journ., April, 1861, p. 898. West, Dr. Uvedale.—A case of Epileptiform Convulsions wi the third week of the Puerperal State. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Bruce, Dr.—Case of Puerperal Convulsions. Ed. Med, Journ., Sept., 1861, p. 285. Kehreb.—Eclampsia Puerperalis in connection vnth Fungus of the Dura Mater. Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1861, p. 228. Duncan, James.— Opium in Puerperal Convulsious. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. loth, 1861, p. 147. The author has found large doses of opium remarkably efficacious ; seventy to ninety drops of the tincture in one large single dose is preferred, WiTTEN, E, W.—Opium in Puerperal Convulsions. Med. Times and Gaz., June 29th, 1861, p. 683. Page, Dr, Fred.—Puerperal Convulsions successfully treated by Chloro- form. Brit. Med. Journ,, April 13th, 1861, p.386. Lemarley.—Eclampsia during Pregnancy ; death ; Ccesarean Operation two hours after. Gaz. des Hop., April 20th, 1861. The child was extracted stillborn, apoplectic. Eiforts to resuscitate were continued during forty minutes, at the end of which the heart ceased to beat. Auscultation detected the heart-beat before the operation was begun. new insteuments. Ellis, Robert,—On Cauterization by Electric Seat in certain Disease of Women. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author advocates the employment of cauterization in preference to other methods of treatment in certain diseases of women, one great advan- tage being the remarkable contraction following in the course of healing and subsequently. He contends that the pain produced by cauterizing at a white heat is probably net so great as that produced by the use of less powerful caustics. Hitherto the great obstacle to the employment of the electric cautery has been the size, cost, and complicated form of