heport on the institutes of medicine. 82 expentnentev concludes that the spinal cord materially affects peristaltic action. (3) Ligature of the vessels ami nerves of the root of the mesen- tery causes extraordinary constriction of the tract tl.::- supplv. (4) Irritation of tlie nerves proceeding from the sympathetic gaugliou to the intestine gave rise, in a tortoise, to increased movement there, and to contractions of the stomach. (5) Excitement of one or both vagi in rabbits and dogs made the movements of all parts of the intestine wore active, and sometimes in the sheep and tortoise originated pro- gressive contractions in the stomach and duodenum. Basslingek.—Ehythnic Cojitractiom about the Carclia of the Babbit. Sitzgsber. d. Wien. Akad., vol. xxvii, p. <;(58. Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vii, p. 359. Canst., vol. i, p. 115. If during active digestion the stomach and the extremity of the oesophagus are removed from a rabbit, the vault of the cardia soon becomes deeply retracted, and then resumes its former situation. These actions continue to alternate for some time. Every movement of de- glutition is followed by this cardiac contraction, and'if such act is arti- ficially provoked, rapid pulsatory movements of the funnel-shaped end of the gullet are afterwards observed, the cardia remaining quiescent. These movements were never witnessed in the dog, and in the cat only once in a slight degree. Bbaune, W.—A Case of Preternatural Anus, toith contributions to the Fhysiology of Digestion. Virchow's Archiv, i860, vol. xix, p. 470. Canst., vol. i, p. 119. On a woman aged forty-nine, who had an artificial anus at the lower end of the ileum the following observations were made:—(i) The mucous membrane of the lower part of the small intestine did not distinguish heat from cold, and was notably less sensible to pain than the skin. (2) The matters collected, which were usually liquid, and of a yellowish-brown, were acid, althoi;gh the mucous membrane in the vicinity was alkaline, except early in the morning, when it was neutral. (3) They contained biliary acids, but no cholepyrrhin. (4) Their watery extract did not attack coagulated albumen, but converted starch into sugar. (5) The extract contained no sugar, and although the patient toolc a good deal of milk, acetic acid caused no precipitate. It contained butyric acid, leucin, and tyrosin. (6) Meat tooic three to six hours to reach the outlet, grape-skins three to four hours, and parsley two and a half to three and a half hours. PliANEE, Prof.—The Oases of the Alimentary Canal, and their relations to the Blood. Sitzuugsber. d. Acad. d. W., vol. xlii,p. 308. Canst., vol. i, p. 255. "With a view to determine the composition of the gases contained in the different portions of the intestinal canal, and to ascertain how far they depend on the diet, the professor employed dogs whicli had been fed'for some days exclusively on animal or on vegetable food, and were killed some hours after their last meal. The diflerent portions of the intestine were ligatured and smeared with grease, and the gas was collected under mercury. The results of hia researches are these:—(i) Tlie