411 INOEGANIO SUBSTANCES. Iodine was found in the urine, perspiration, and saliva. The patient reco- vered after twenty hours' iUness^ ViOLETTE.—Double compounds of Iodine tvith Iron and Quinine. Gaz. des Hop., No. 59, i860. The compound thus described has been recently introduced by KebiUon. It is a resinous mass, of a beautiful green colour, crystalline fracture, and bitter styptic taste. It is said to possess very great advantages in all cases in which it is desirable to combine iron and quinine. The author adduces cases illustrative of its efficacy as an analeptic. GoNOD.—On the administj-ation of Common Salt in combination with Iodides and Bromides. Journ. de Chem. M6d., July, i860. Metallic Chlorides. Bryk.—On the local action of Chlorine on the Tissues. Virchow, vol. xviii, p. 377. Canst., vol. v, p. 106. Brylc's inquiry relates to the action of chlorine and the chlorides as caustics. The author has investigated, by experiments on rabbits, the anatomical and chemical changes -which are directly produced by these agents, and the peculiarities observable in the processes of sloughing, sup- puration, and cicatrization. He finds that two kinds of anatomical change are produced in the tissues, according to the nature and degree of con- centration of the chloride employed. The metalUc chlorides, and particu- larly those of platina, gold, and mercury in strong solution, convert the tissues into a dry mass, in which, however, all the anatomical elements can be distinguished on microscopic examination. Chlorine itself, on the other hand, and the alkaline chlorides * {sic), or weak solutions of the metallic chlorides, have a "colliquative" action on the tissues, by which, according to the author, their anatomical characters undergo a change resembling fatty degeneration (Verfettung). By chemical investigation he has deter- mined that this change is dependent upon the conversion of the albuminous constituents of the tissues into a soluble form (alkaline albuminates), whereas the dry sloughs produced by the metallic chlorides consist mainly of insoluble metallic albuminates. The author attaches much greater therapeutical importance to the colli- quative than to the escharotic action of the chlorides, recommending their application to mucous surfaces, suppurating wounds and tumours, in all of ■which cases he maintains that they possess a remarkable power of limiting cell-growth. Alkaline Bases. Poisoning by Chlorate of Potash. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i, p. 159. Chlorate of potash was given to a phthisical patient by a physician at Bergen (New Jersey, U.S.), in doses of 300 grains daily. In four days violent symptoms of irritant poisoning supervened, and were rapidly fatal. After death the mucous membrane of the stomach was found to be stained of a yellow colour, and much softened. * From the context it appears that the author means chlorinated soda and chlorinated lime.—Ed.