420 nEPonT oir toxicology axd mateeu medica. i (i) dilntfttion of the pupils; (c) tremor of the integuments, and pro- gressive impairment of function, terminating in paralysis of the voluntary muscles ;*and (d) increased reflex activity, at first, with subsequent coma vigil. In these respects the action of this corresponds to that of other species of monkshood, but it difi'ers strikingly from Aconitum napcUus in not increasing the excretions either of the bowels or kidneys. Whereas both in poisoning by aconitine and by the root of the A. napcllus death is preceded by considerable dyspnoea, violent convulsions, and a prolonged agony, the action of the present species is purely sedative. Spasm is either entirely absent or manifests itself very feebly. After death no appearances were observed of congestion or inflammation, either of the brain or its membranes, or of the mucous membrane of the alimen- tary canal. As regards the comparative activity of different parts of the plant, it was found that the leaves of this species are less poisonous than of any other (five grammes of the extract had no marked effect), but that the root is by far more active than in any other indigenous aconite. Thus, •j^ths of a gramme of the alcoholic extract of the root of A. lycoc- tonum was fatal in from four and a half to six hours, whereas the same quantity of the same preparation of the root of A. neomontanum re- quired from seven to twenty-two hours. In the rapidity of its action it •was only surpassed by the Himalayan species {A. ferox). As regards the effect of the period of growth of the root, it appeared that iu June and July the root was much more active than in Sejptember. The author concludes from his experiments that the acrid principle which is so abundant in A. ferox is absent in A. lycoctonum, while the bitter narcotic principle exists in greater purity and abundance than in any other species. It is shown that alcohol is the best menstruum for extract- ing the latter, and that water is entirely unfit for the purpose. It is how- ever soluble in water, and is taken up, along with fermentescible sugar, from the alcoholic extract by that agent. Schroff" has not yet determined in what state of chemical combination it exists^in the plant. DccKWOBTH.—On the physiological actio7i of Aconitina. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 224- Mr. Duckworth's conclusions, from experiments on cats and rabbits, are as follows :—In rapidly fatal cases death is caused either by direct cardiac syncope or by a powerfully sedative impression on the nervous system. Before death the pupils, which are at first contracted, become excessively dilated When given in somewhat smaller doses, aconitina gradually re- tards the action of the heart and respiration, the latter at the same time becoming irregular and suspicious. The phenomena which precede death appear to be referable to a combination of asphyxia and syncope, the former being indicated by venous congestion, the latter by the impair- ment of the action of the heart. Skinner.—Pot«o?iiM</ by Aconitum Napellus. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, A Srong'and healthy woman, Eet. 30 (who a week previously had taken a smaller dose without'effect), was ordered two table-spoonfuls, three t.mes a day. of a mixture containing m iu sj of Fleming's tmcture of aconite.