EEPOUT ON phactical medicine. 174 acts as an eliminative, exciting the alvine aud renal secretions. Its seda- tive efficacy is shown hy the fact that patients suffering from violent maniacal symptoms actually fall asleep in the wet sheet. Its use is appro- priate to cases of recent mania, attended with febrile and congestive symptoms, but not to those of more asthenic character, where pyrexia is less marked and nervous excitement predominates. For these morphia and porter are better. The state of Lunacy in England. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., Oct., 1861. The author in this article analyses the fifteenth report of the Com- missioners of Lunacy, and states the following as the conclusions which the details contained in the report lead to :—(i) That the increase of known lunacy for several years back has been confined almost solely to pauper lunatics; (2) that the amount of known lunacy among those classes of the population who are raised above pauperism, or are liable to pauperism from lunacy—the wealthier classes, in short—has been diminishing, or, at least, has been stationary, for some years; (3) that it is probable that lunacy is not increasing in the kingdom in greater proportion than the increase of population; the apparent increase, as shown by the steadily growing population of our asylums and the need for still more and more asylum accommodation,being dependent mainlyupon certain circumstances incidental to the provision made for the care of lunatics in late years. These circumstances relate—(i) to the large number of cases previously unre- ported, and only I'ecently brought under observation; (2) the increased number of those sent to asylums ; (3) the prolongation of their life when thus brought under care. Beljloc, H.—On the moral responsibility of Lunatics, Annales Medico- psychol. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., Oct., 1861. Belloc argues that lunatics are by no means fo be regarded as destitute of free will or irresponsible for their actions, but that in each case it ought to be considered how far the person can be considered accountable. McIntosh, C.—On the subcutaneous injection of Morphia in Insanity. Journ. of Mental Science, Oct., 1861. Mcintosh advocates from his experience the restricted employment of this procedure in every asylum. It acts as a sedative to the furious, and a calmative to the depressed and despairing, and is also suitable to cases where restlessness, excitement, and dirty habits, occur at paroxysmal periods. MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Skinner.—Ca«e of Ossification of the Muscles. Med. Times and Gaz., April 20th. Ramskill.—Case of Wasting Palsy. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th. Althaus, J.—Two Cases of Wry Neck treated successfully by Electricity. Med. Times and Giiz., May 25th. DucHENNE.—On progressive Muscular Paralysis of the Tongue, Velum