MUSCULAU SYSTEM. 19 the speaker endeavoui-ed to establish the foUoAving law :—The greater the deo-ree of muscular irritahility at the time of death, the later the cadaveric rio-idity sets in, aud the longer it lasts, and the later also putrefaction°appeai-s, and the slower it progresses. While on the con- trary, every cause which decreases the degree of muscular n-ntahihty before death, hastens the advent of cadaveric rigidity and the process of putrefaction. MuNK, B.—0» tie Influence of the Length of the Nerve on the Time of the occurrence of Muscidar Death. AUg. Med. Centralztschr.. No. 8, Jan., i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 165. This writer found that the gastrocnemius of the frog took two or three times longer to die, when its nerve was separated from it, than when it remained in connection with it. Du Bois-Eet3j:ond, E.—Modification of Stenton's Experiment. Archiv. f. Anat. u. Phys., p. 639, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 152. In order to compress the lumbar aorta and vena cava in the rabbit, the author pierces transversely that region about the fourth vertebra, with a semicircular, sheathed needle, carrying a silken ribbon. The circu- lation in the hinder limbs may thus be interrupted and restored at pleasure. Paralysis of the feet commonly sets in after five to fifteen minutes, but it may; occur within a few seconds. Budge observes that, in the frog, this effect takes a much longer time to supervene. I'lCK, A.—Frecursory Notice respectinrj an Inqiiiry on the Physiology of the Smooth Muscular Fibre. Wiener Med. Wocheuschr., p. 577, Sept., i860. Canst., vol. i, p. i6j. In experiments performed chiefly upon invertebrate animals, the author found that irritants throw the smooth muscular fibre into a con- tinuous contraction, which takes some seconds to attain its height, where it often remains several minutes before it again, more or less quickly, relaxes. Fifteen or twenty minutes may elapse ere it perfectly returns to its former condition. Every irritant produces tetanic spasm, not twitching. The degree of abridgment of the fibres is quite inde- pendent of the rapidity of the variations in density of the electric cui'rents. The duration of the current, however, essentially influences its effect, w'hich increases with its continuance. Thus the duration of the current is a far more powerful element than is its intensity in de- termining the force of the contraction. MoLESCHOTT.—A Coiitrihution to the Knoioledge of Smooth Mtiscles, Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vi, p. 380. Canst., vol. i, p. 43. The author states that the smooth muscles found in arteries of cue- tenth millimetre in diameter do not, on an average, exceed a third of the length of those existing in the vesicles of the lung. The follicular muscles of the scalp ai'c described as arising from the epidermis, and so densely encircling the sebaceous glands, that their contraction must necessarily cause the sebum to be evacuated into the hair-follicle. The author arrives at the most satisfactory results by the use of the reagents detailed in last year's 'Eeport,' (' Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 27.)