142 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. In six months of this year, January to June inclusive, Newman has met with 35 cases of diphtlieria, 12 sporadic with 2 deaths, 23 endemic ■with 5 ; Six of the seven deaths occurred in children under ten years of age. Only three of the cases belonged to tlie better-circumstanced classes. In two cases, both fatal, considerable hsemorrhage took place. In one case incomplete paraplegia supervened. Unfavorable hygienic circum- stances aggravated the disease. Walker, J. W.—The Treatment of Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Joum., Dec. 2i8t. Walker gives the following mixture, stating that he considers guaiacum as the remedy/jfl?" excellence iox diphtheria. Pot. Chloratis 3iv, Tinct. Cinch. CO. 3SS, Tinct, Guaiaci co. 5iv—5'j> Mellis q.s.. Aqua ad %su]. M. 5j ad 5SS vel 3] 0. horsl, vel 2dis vel 3tiis vel 4tis vel ter die. HiRTZEL.— Clinical Observations on different preparations of Aconite, Henbane, Belladonna, Stramonium, Conium, and Digitalis. Gaz. de Strasburg, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 18. Hirtzel selects those parts of the plants which he believes to contain most of the active principles (the roots of aconite and belladonna, the seeds of conium, digitahs, henbane, and stramonium); prepares from these, reduced to powder, a spirituous extract, which is evaporated, again dissolved in alcohol, and again evaporated. The extract of aconite root thus obtained is twenty-five times as strong as that of the leaves ; that of belladonna root is five times as strong as that of the leaves ; the extract of conium seeds is twenty times as strong as that of the leaves; those of digitalis and henbane seeds are ten times as strong as those made from the leaves ; that of stramonium seeds is five times as strong as that of the leaves. ' Opitz, E.—On Scurvy. Prag. Vjhrschr., Ixix, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 33- Opitz describes with considerable detail an epidemic of scurvy which prevailed in 1852 among the Austrian troops forming part of the garrison of Rastatt, and remained almost confined to them. Out of 4300 men 610 were attacked, 497 by primary scurvy and 113 by scurvy consecutive to ague and eye catarrh ; the deaths were 25. The epidemic prevailed especially from April to June. The year was wet, and there was much water round the fortress, which occasioned a damp and cold state of the atmosphere. To this and to the impure air of the overcrowded bar- racks the anthor thinks the disease is chiefly attributable. In eleven cases all that were bled, the blood was alkaline; in one febrile case the fibrine, blood-globules, and iron, were abundant, but the albumen and salts diminished. In the symptoms, pathological appearances, and treat- ment, there is nothing unusual. Clkborne, C. 3.—Experiments to determine the Effects on the System of the Asclepias Syriaca. Amer. Joum. of Med. Sc., July. Cleborne finds it to be a stimulant tonic, a diuretic and aperient, alterative and anthelmintic. Doses of 5ss quater die caused violent vomiting.