i VOOD, MEDICINii, ANX) POlsiOX. 4-9 remained uucbaugetl; in another, the liquids whicli had been \isually taken, were withdrawn; and in a third, various quantities of common drinking-water Avere added to the usual consumption of liquids. The water u°ed in these experiments had been carefully analysed, and was found to contain 27 grains of solid constituents, amongst which the carbonates of lime, iron, and magnesia, and chloride of sodium predomi- nated. One grain of carbonic acid was contained in sixteen ounces of ■water. . The disturbances observed after withdrawing liquid food were very striking, and ensued more rapidly if the solid food which was taken contained only a trifling quantity of water; in persons m whom the metamorphosis was comparatively more energetic than in others; if exercise was taken, and if in consequence of previous indisposition, there was no great power of resistance to morbid influences. In every case the secretions and excretions were diminished, especially the excretion of urine, which, although its specific gravity was considerably increased, was nevertheless found to contain amuch smaller amount of solid constitu- ents than the quantity of urine which had been previously discharged. The urea was very much diminished ; after that came the chloride of sodium, phosphoric and sulphuric acids. Effete matter was therefore retained in the blood, in consequence of a diminished action of the kidneys; and to this the morbid symptoms, and especially the fever Avhich was observed, were, no doubt, to be ascril3ed. The excretion by the skin and the lungs was also much diminished; costiveness, loss of appetite, and a dry longue, were complained of—symptoms evidently due to a deficiency in the secretion of the mucous membrane of the mouth, the stomach, aud the intestines. If, on the other hand, a larger quantity than usual of water was administered, the metamorphosis was greatly accelerated. The quantily of the urine, of urea, of sulphates, phosphates aud chlorides, and of the ficces, was much augmented, while the lu-ic acid appeared diminished. As regards age, sex, and constitution, the same quantity of water had a much more considerable and lasting effect in boys and girls tlian in adult males; if water was administered for a somewhat lengthened period to males of a feeble constitution, the metamorphosis was in them more increased than in very vigorous persons ; aud febrile symptoms set in which were, in a few instances, of a threatening character. The temperature of tlie atmosphere and of the water which was taken had also a certain influence. If the air Avas warm, and if at the same time exercise was taken, the metamorphosis increased more considerably; warm water appeared more eftecti\ e than cold, and there were also differences according as the several quantities of water were druulc at long intervals or in rapid succession. In cases where the increased appetite was indulged by a more abundant administration of food, the waste of the system was com- pensated, aud the long-continued use of water made less inroad upon the constitution than when tlie food was not increased; the wei'^-ht of the body was also not so much diminished under such circiunstances. In som^ cases tlie action of the water was chiefly diuretic, in others it was more diaphoretic. As regards the intestines, generally only a very trifling quantity of water was eliminated by them; but in one boy 4