301 ABDOMEN. BRYX^r—Sfranguhfed TJmhilical and Incjuinal Hernia, reduced lij tlie taxis under Ijdoroform. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd, p. 108 \BBOTT and BvcKi^QnA^L.-Two cases of Ventral Hernia. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Sept. 26th, pp. 161 and 164. Heavett, v.—Case of Vaginal Herma. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 7th, P- 254- Operations for the Radical Cure of Hernia. Edwabds, a. M..—Notes on the history of attempts to oUain radical cures of Inguinal Bupttires. Edin. Monthly J., Dec, p. ^41- Baewell —Three cases illustrating the results of a neio operation for the radical cure of Umbilical Hernia. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, p. 419. The contents having been carefully returned, the skin and sac are slit open so as to expose the opening into the abdominal cavity. This is closed with two or three silver-wire sutures, as may be required, the bowel being guarded with the tip of the finger or some convenient instrument during the passage of the needle. The slit in the hernial coverings is closed with stitches of the same material. Baewell, E.—On a new operation for the cure of UmUlieal Hernia. Lancet, Nov. i6th, p. 471. A. more detailed statement of the plan of the operation, and the indications for undertaking it. Field, A. G.—Suggestion for a modification of Wood's operation for the radical cure of Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 12th, This consists in cutting off a circular patch of the scrotal skin, in- stead of separating it from the subjacent tissues, as Wood does. SxME, J.—On the radical cure of Beducihle Hernia. Edin. Med. Journ., April, p. 865. Syme takes any convenient elongated body, as a piece of bougie with a hole drilled through one end of it, and a piece of strong thread and a needle, such as is used in sewing up dead bodies. The string having been passed through the hole in the end of the body, " the needle is threaded with one end of the string, and laid with its concavity on the forefinger of the left hand, which is passed up along the cord within the external ring; the needle is then turned round so as to bring its point upwards, and passed with an inclination to the left through the textures, and brought out on the surface of the abdomen." The other end of the string is passed in a similar way, but with an inclination to the right. The body, smeared with cantharides ointment, is then drawn up into the canal by the thread, the ends of which are tied upon a piece of bougie. Syme states this proceeding to be simpler and more eftectual than Wutzer's. "Wells, J. S.—Note on the alleged failure of Wutzer's operation for the cw)-e of reducible Inguinal Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 19th, p. 59.