nUPORT ON I'llACTICAL MEDICINE. Adrian's Process. V. Annuaire de Therapeut., j86i, p. 199. resenrelics, ns tending to show that they consist not in tlie production of specilic disease, but rather in depressing or impairing the functions of the whole body, and manifest themselves constitutionally by fever accom- panied with prostration, locally by affections of the respiratory and digestive mucous membranes. Tatlor, J.—On the Alhaline Hypophosphites, and their Medici7ial Pro- perties. Lancet, Nov. 30th; Dec. 7th, 14th, Taylor aflirms that 5j of pure hypophosphite of potash or soda is a poisonous dose, even gr. ij causes some irritation of the stomach. He agrees, however, with Dr. Churchill to some extent, as to the good efi'ects they may produce in increasing nervous and vital power, and the forma- tion of red globules. He gives detailed directions as to the mode of preparing an hypophosphite, the chief points being that the temperature should be below 220°, and equally applied round the vessel, and that the air should be excluded. Several cases are related of debility and anaemia, in which the remedy was of marked efficacy. Obersalzbrunn in Prussia. Med. Times and Gaz., May iith. These waters are found useful in tuberculosis, in respiratory and intestinal catarrh, liEemorrhoidal affections, and lithiasis. They contain chiefly Garb, and Sulph. Sod. and COj. Topical Febrifuge. Monit. des Sc. Med., Feb. 23rd, 1861. Jl. 01. Terebinth., 5iv. Vini Opii, 5iss. Camphorse, 5j. 01. OlivEe, gij. M. To he I'ubbed for ten minutes along the spine every six hours during the intervals of the attacks of ague. PouiLLET, M.—On Sulphurous Poivder. Kepert. de Pharra., Feb., 1861. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Sulphuret of Calcium, Bicarb, of Soda, Sulphate of Soda, Sulphate of Potassa, Tartaric Acid, Gum Arabic, are to be mixed together after being well dried, in equal parts. Of this powder aboift gr. viij, added to Oij of water, give after standing 15 min. an excellent imitation of the natural sulphurous waters. Baths ofDriburg in Germany. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd. The water contains a notable amount of COg, some iron and manganese, besides salts of lime, and the alkalies. The use of the baths is found beneficial in cases of paralysis, albuminuria, anaemia, and even as a preventive of malformations of the fcetus, when employed during pregnancy. Pine-leaf Treatment at Grund-am-Eartz. Med. Times and Gaz., March 2nd. ... , Cases of gout and rheumatism, of sciatica, of hemicrania and scro- fulosis, of asthma and chronic pulmonary catarrh, of hysteria and hys- terical paralysis, and various skin diseases, are treated by this method with great advantage. The leaves arc used in water, vapour, mud, and douche baths, and in inhalations, and their expressed juice is given internally. Perchloride of Iron Chemically Neutral and Permanent, j)repared by