GENEllAL SYSTEM. BuDD, W.—Observations on Typhoid or Intestinal Fever : the Pythogenic Theory. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 2nd, ptb, i6th, 23rd, 30th; Dec. 7 th, 14th. Budd argues that ther* is abundant proof that sewage per se cannot cause fever, but that this is tlie result of a special miasm contained in the alvine discharges. On this view a satisfactory explanation can be given of the incomparably greater ravages which typhoid commits when it attacks rural communities, and of its vastly greater apparent contagiousness in country than in town. In the town the discharges are speedily removed from the dwelling by means of the drains ; in the country they accumulate day by day on the open soil around the dwelling. He contrasts the state of London when tlie Thames was so offensive with that of Windsor during the fever epidemic. In the former case the most offensive emanations of mere sewage produced no fever; in the latter, the specific effluvia from the bowels of fever patients reproduced fever largely. Budd further argues for the specific origin of typhoid fever from the human intestine, and the non-generation of its miasm from mere filth, from the circumstance that animals, though in daily contact with the poisonous excretions, are not infected thereby. He then adverts to the necessity for predisposition that the poison may take effect, and to the well-known immunity afforded by a previous attack of the disorder. As to the question whether typhoid fever ever arises spontaneously, Budd pronoimces in the negative, inasmuch as from the invisibility of the poison provision is made for its dissemination in a thousand unseen ways. Cases therefore will constantly arise in which the disease, to all appearance, originates spontaneously. He appeals to the history of smallpox in con- firmation of his argument, and to the general refutation of the theory of spontaneous generation in the case of plants and animals. To the argu- ment that because fevers at first originated spontaneously, they continue still occasionally to do so, he rephes that the same may be said of itch and of syphilis, which all allow to be propagated solely by contagion. Clark.—An Interesting Case of Insidious Secondary 'Pneumonia. Amer. Med. Times, Sept. 14th. Besides the pneumonia, which was not recognised during life, Clark notices the existence of a well-marked typhoid eruption, and an entire absence of the usual intestinal lesion. Death ensued about three weeks from the commencement of the disease. FuEMY.—C/-o^o« 027 Liniment in Typhoid Fever. Repert. de Pharmacie, Oct., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., April 6th. M. Fremy believes that he obtains great advantage by rubbing in this hninient over the abdomen, so as to produce an eruption. MiMioY, G.—The Case of the Egyptian Frigate at Liverpool, with Remar/cs on the Causations of Fevers, ^c. Med. Critic and Psycholo'^. Journ . Oct., i86i. ° ' Milroy concludes-(i) that the fever and dysentery were generated or self-engendered on board, and that their diffusion among the crew was mainly caused by the poisonous atmosphere from the crowding of them together in filth and misery; and (2) that its extension to the attendants