JOINTS. 273 JOHXSON, J. G.—Buptnre of the Tendon of the Rectus Femoris Muscle above the Fatella; recovery, tvith partial anchjlosis of the knee, without the patient's losing a dai/'s work. Amer. Med. Tunes, May 25th, p. 338. . . . 7 r' j tj\ TovCET.—Btqjticre of Left Beetles Abdominis Muscle, (raz. des JlOp., 76, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 58. JOINTS. (a) Diseases. SohLX, S.—Clinical lectures on Diseases of Joints. Lancet, Jan. jth, p. I; 19th, p. 51. VoLKM.i:y, Dr. E.—On the Catarrhal Fjrms of Joint-suppuration. Arcbiv fiir Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 408. Berlin. The author controverts a commonly received opinion that suppu- ration of a joint is necessarily followed by anchylosis, and cites cases where perfect mobility was recovered. He ascribes the easy production of catarrhal pus-corpuscles on the inner surface of the capsular liga- ment to the thick clothing this has of pavement epithelium. He does not accept as strictly accurate in the case of joints, the most recent attempts to arrange superficial suppui'atiou of this kind in two sharply defined classes, the destructive or connective-tissue, and the catarrhal or epithelial suppuration, which are based on the assumption that either the younger epithelial cells, by repeated subdivision, are resolved into the elements of pus, or an endogenous formation of pus takes place inside epithelial brood-cells. And he traces the origin of the pus in catarrhal articular inflammation to the metamorphosis of the most superficial counective-tissue-corpuscles into small foci filled with pus- corpuscles, which empty themselves into the cavity of the joint after exfoliation of the superjacent epithelium. He sums up the results of his observations in these words :—" Joint-suppuration has in many cases at first the secretory (catarrhal) character. Probably pus-corpuscles are found in moderate numbers in all the more acute arthro-meningites, and produce here the universally known, in many cases more or less pronounced, yellowish turbidity of the inflammatory products. The for- mation of pus-corpuscles is often so abundant that the effusion appears to tlie unaided eye puriform, although all deeper (parenchymatous) alterations of the constituent tissues of the joint are absent. In all these cases the pus may disappear either by disintegration of its cor- puscles and absorption, or by evacuation, and a cure result, without any trace of the former disease being left." In all cases of acute formation of pus in previously healthy joints, the suppuration in the synovial membrane has always at first, only this secretory character the deeper and irreparable chauges occurring later. Tiie author next reviews at some length the course of joint-suppurations, and concludes with scfme remarks on the treatment, with especial reference to the subcutaneous puncture and injection of joints. He considers the speedy evacuation of a large quantity of pus in a joint desirable