277 JOINTS. Taylor, C. F.—Improved Coiinter^extension Sjilint for Morbus Coxarim. Amer. Med. Times, July aoth, p. .37. The stated cadvautages of this splint are that it makes no pressui-e on tlie femoral vessels, and reaches only to the knee, the motion of which is perfectly free. Sathe, L. a.—Clinical Lecture on Morhis Coxaritis. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 29th, p. 411. The report of this lecture contains woodcuts of Davis's and Sayre's splints for the treatment of this disease by extension and counter-, extension. Saybe, Dr. L. A.—Ftmclitre of the Cajpsiile of the Hip-joint. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 182. A remarkable case of acute inflammation of the hip-joint, following a severe blow. A tenotomy knife was thrust deeply behind the tro- chanter major, and pus escaping, the puncture was extended five inches. Nearly a teacupful of pus escaped. "With the finger in the capsule, no roughness about the head of the bone could be felt. The joint was thoroughly syringed with warm water, and covered with oil silk. The case did well, and at the date of this report, four years after the capsule was laid open, the patient was in perfect health, and there was " complete motion of the joints CLEA'ELAJfD, AV. K.'—Morbus Goxaritis, its treatment, as practised by G. Leiois and A. Saijre, M.D. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 2. Sayre, according to Cleveland, regards hip-disease simply as a local aftection, not necessarily connected with tuberculosis. Eest and the removal of irrigation are the principal points in the treatment. These are attained by means of a peculiar metal splint, which is figured and described. The treatment recommended in the several stages of the disease is fully detailed, and illustrated by cases. PjilCE.—The advantages of the use of the Long Side-splint in tlie treat- ment of Morbus CoxcB in some of its earlier and more chronic forms. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 288. (d) Dislocations. Crttisi;, p. k..—Observations on tlie Reduction of Dislocations, toith the description of a new Apparatus for making Extension. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Sept. i6th, p. 273. This apparatus consists of a drum, upon which a leather strap is wound by a cogged wheel and endless screw. Dislocations of Bones of Face and of Spine. Eaoieeske, C—Luxation of both sides of the Lower Jaw ; Concussion of the Brain. Med. Centr. Ztg., xxix, 80, i860. Mahttki Dr Alvii.—Complete Laceration of all the Uqaments between thejourlh and fifth Cervical Vertebrce. Ztschr. f. Chir u Geburtsh., xui, I, p. I, j86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 195. 19