delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 6th, p. 12. llliPOIlT ON SUDGEUY. other forms of Curvature of the Spine. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. .3i8fc, p. 211, and following numbers. Hughes, li.—On Diseases and Deformities of the Spine, Chest, and Limbs. Part I. Disease of the Spine causing posterior angular projection, ahscess, and imralgsis. London, John Churchill, 1861 PP- 40. Elliott, "W. A.—On Contraction of the Palmar Fascia, and its mode of treatment. Dublin Med. Press, Feb. 13th, p. 101. Practical comments on two cases treated by division of the contracted fascia (in one instance subcutaneously), and subsequent extension with a machine. The paper is illustrated with six woodcuts. CooTE, H.—The Treatment of Deformities. Lancet, Jan. 12th, p. 25, and following numbers. A course of clinical lectures on chronic diseases of the bones and joints, chiefly in relation to the treatment of deformities. Panooast.— Deformity of the lower Extremities—one leg crossing the other; operation for its relief ly division of the tendons of the pectinei muscles. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 26th, P- 451- Baeton, J. K.—Observations on the Treatment of Deformities resulting from severe Burns. Dublin Quart. Joum., No. Ixiii, Aug. let, P- 1- Bhown, J. H.—Remarkable case of acquired Deformity; treatment; {successful) result. Amer. Med. Times, March 23rd, p. 193. A girl, jet. 13, with lateral curvature of the spine, which was almost a semicircle, thighs at a right angle with the pelvis, and legs at acute angles with the thighs. By tenotomy and methodical extension these distortions were overcome, and the child could stand erect without crutch or cane, and walk without artificial aid. MoTT, A. B.—Two cases of Tenotomy for the relief of the deformity caused by Anchylosis of tlie Knee-joint. Amer. Med. Times, July 13th, p. 25. Batjee, Dr. L.—Case of double Genu-valgum, or Knock-knee. Philadel- phia Med. and Surg. Eep., Oct. 12th, p. 37. Beown, J. B.—Case of Talipes Varus Duplex Conyenitus. Philadelphia Med. and Surg, liep., April 6th, p. 7. m E.0SEE, Wm.— The Treatment of Flat foot, Archiv d. Heilk,, i, 6,1 p. 481, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, Wo. 4, p. 78. ■ Eoser has obtained great success in the treatment of that form of ■ flat-foot which is so common in errand- and school-boys. With the aid of ■ chloroform the foot is addueted, and kept for some time in this position ■ by a plaster of Paris bandage. ■ Pancoast.—Two cases of Clubfoot; division of the soleu-s muscle in one case, of the .foleus and anterior tibial tendon in the other. Phila-