'^^^ niCPOIlT OK JriDAVIFERY, ETC. causes, viz., .5 put.id at birth, i footling, i prolapsed funis, 3 Lu^nior- rhnge during kbour from placenta prajvia, 2 difficult instrun.ental labours I suspected latent compression of the funis, i cause not mani- fes . On the wholcjmmbcr of cases, ergot and not er^^ot cases, of 1026 children born, there ^vere ,50 still-births, of which 5 were deaths without manifest cause, ihc author concludes, therefore, that as only one in five of these was born under ergot, there was no evidence to justify the doc- trine that ergot was dangerous to the life of the child. In the present paper tiie whole of the ergot cases are minutely tabulated, and all details given, liie author observes that the tables show it to be quite immate- rial when the ergot is given, but that it is essential that actual labour be present, and that the accoucheur be competent to meet any emero-ency lilcely to arise ; that ergot can only be dangerous wheu uterine actTon is dangerous. P.UOT.—0;j JSr//ot in retention of the Placenta. Gaz. des Hop., 48, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 60. ' Pajot considers that ergot is not indicated in cases of retention of the placenta at the seventh or eighth month, or in cases of abortion occurring earlier than this. J3aer. — On Electricity in Midwifery/. Mon. f. Geb., Oct., 1861, p. 273. ^ The uses of this agent in the induction of premature labour, in the checking of haemorrhage from defective uterine action, &c., and in ex- citing respiration in cases of asphyxia neonatorum, are severally discussed. The phrenic nerve is considered by the author the best to operate on. pAiiT II.—DISEASES OE WOMEN. PHYSTOLOGY OF PEMALE GENEKAriTA^E ORGANS. Meissneh, E. a.— On the frequency of Conception in Ancemia and some other constitutional diseases of Women. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., i860, p. 120. The author, adopting Eichstedt's theory of the siictional power exer- cised by the uterus during coition, and by which the spermatic fluid is made to pass into this organ, makes it for the most part the bases of the explanation here given of the greater frequency of conception in women suffering from chlorosis, leuksemia, general anaemia, cardialgia, hysteria, tuberculosis, &c. Strohl.—On the relation hetioeen Menstruation and the Lunar Phases. Gaz. de Strasb., 1861, 6. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 49. The results of a very extensive inquiry are as follows:—(i) The mooDj appears to exercise a great influence on the occurrence of menstruation. (2) During the full moon only a small number of women menstrunte. (,3) The maximum menstruate during the flrst quarter. (4) A second, butj less number, menstruate at the period of the new moon. (5) Theperigeej and the apogee have apparently no influence. (6) The southern luni- 1.