PUACTURES. 269 CvLBEiiTSOT^i.—AvjMion of Adhesive Straps Fmctureaf^^ vicle, and to accidental division of the Tendo Achillis. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 6th, p. 8. , , ^ Bitot, VvoL—Splitting of the Upper Epiphysis of the Humerus in a New-horn Child. Jouru. de Bord., 26 ser., iv, p. 5, Janv., i«59. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. -n, -i i 1 t ^vc-K..—Fracture of the Anatomical JVeck of the Rnmerns. Philadelplua Med. and Surg. Eep., Dee. spth, p. 350. Pancoast.—Tn-o cases of Fracture of the Condi/le of the Htmerus. PhUadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Eeb. 23rd, p. .'J^^- These cases were treated with au angular side splint, the lorearm being midway between pronation and supination. CooPEB, E. S.—Cflse of Ununited Fracture of the Os Humeri of four I/ears' standinf/; cure hij the use of silver ligatures. Amer. Med. "Times, May 25th, p. 337. The false joint, and one and a half inch of the ends of the fragments having been removed with a sharp chisel. Cooper drilled the fragments, strung a wire through them, and twisted it, so as to keep them in apposition. The incision, four inches long, by which the bones were laid bare, was made to heal by granulation (a point on which Cooper insists), the free escape of the discharges being provided for by a tent, and the formation of abscess in the neighbouring parts being prevented by bandaging. Masoit, E.—Fracture of Badius; ttnion delayed by pregnancy. Anier. Med. Times, Nov. 17th, p. 347. SwiXBrHiTE.—A neiv method of treating Barton and Colles^ Fracture. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 9th, p. 609. niis is the application of a single thin splint to the back of the forearm, reacting from the point of the elbow to the metacarpo-pha- langeal joints. This splint has two compresses, one which fills the lioUow at the back of the carpus, the other at the elbow, " to supply the deficiency in the straight line." The splint is fixed firmly with plaster straps to the elbow, the forearm is then extended till the broken radius and displaced ulna are brought into proper position, and when this is effected the hand is strapped to the lower end of the splint. Lastly, the carpal end of the forearm is pressed gently backwards against the splint, and fixed so with a strap. The author had treated eight cases in this way with great success. Gray.—Colles^ Fracture of the Badius; dissection of the injitred limh. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 220. Hutchinson, J.—Fracture of the Badius in its lower third; dissection of the parts. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 7th, p. 254. Lecqmte, 0.—On the indirect Fractures at the lotver end of the Badius. Arch. G6n., 5e ser., xvi, Dec, i860, p. 641 ; xvii, Janv., Fevr., pp. 52, 157. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 9, p. 339.