EEPOET ON PUACTIOAL MEDICINE. 202 everywhere of ft dark-black colour. A copious amount of black fluid exuded on pressure, staining the finger like indian ink, and exliibiting the same particles as had been found in the sputa. Traube is inclined to believe that derangement of the ciliary action of the bronchial surface is essential to the accumulation of carbonaceous matter in the lungs, inas- much as many persons continually inhale a dusty atmosphere of this kind without sulTering. ♦ Strohl.—071 the Treatitient of Pneumonia hy the Acetate of Lead. Gaz. M^d. de Strasbourg, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev,, Julj"^, 1861. ' Strohl gives the drug in full doses to the exclusion of all other remedies except bloodletting in cases of great congestion. As soon as resolution begins Strohl discontinues the lead, and convalescence goes on sponta- neously. Flint, A.—Clinical Lecture.—Pneumonia ; physical examination of Pul- monary Cavities. Amer. Med. T., April 6th. Flint dwells on the distinctive character of cavernous as compared with bronchial respiration, the former consisting of alow-pitched, non-vesicular, inspiratory sound, with an expiratory still lower in pitch, while the latter is marked by a high-pitched, tubular inspiration, with an expiratory sound still higher. Between the bronchial and the cavernous whisper there is a similar difference. Flint, A.—Clinical Report on Pneumonia, hased on an analysis of 133 Cases. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861. Flint examines his cases with regard to locality inhabited, season, sex, oc9«pation, habits, seat and extent of disease, complications and duration. With regard to treatment, his experience leads him to abandon blood- letting, tartar-emetic, mercury, counter-irritants, cathartics and la.x'atives. In place of these he uses opium and quinine pretty freely, with alcohohc stimulants and concentrated nourishment. The total mortality was thirty- five, or 26 per cent. At Buffalo it M'as about 17, at New Orleans 32, and at Louisville 63 per cent. In three cases recovery ensued without any treatment. Flint, A.—Abstract of a Clinical Lecture on Pneumonia. Amer. Med. T., March 9th. Brit. Med. Journ., May iith. Flint dwells on the prodigious amount of material often effused into the pulmonary cavities, and tlie consequent diminution of the mass of the blood. In correspondence with this is the fact that such patients do not generally die by apnoea, but by asthenia. He therefore considers the best proceeding to be—(i) to give opium in sufficient doses to tranquillise the system, to render it as tolerant as possible of the local affection, and to promote sleep ; (2) to support the system by alcoholic stimulants and concentrated nourishment. Griesinger.—Resume of Seventy-tivo Cases of Pneumonia. Arch. d. Ileiik., i, 5, i860. Canstatt's Jahresbcr., vol. iii, p. 201. These cases occurred in the three years from IMay, 1854, to April, i860. In the last two and first two months of the six years there occurred 42,