MOUTH, PHAUYNXj AJID AIR-PASSAGES, ETC. 247 Uij^TOTS.—Acuie Glossitis {Mercm-ial?), Med. Times and Gaz.,Marcli i6tli, p. 277. 7Epithelial Cancer of the Tongue; ecrasetir. Amer. Med. Times, June 8tb, p. 376. There Avas some trouble in stopping the bleeding. HuTCHiKSOif.—Cancer of the Tongue; rapid progress; death within seven months. Cancer in the Limgs. Med. Times and G-az., March i6th, p. 276. A case of epithelioma remarkable for secondary deposits in a distant internal organ. Tonsils and Salivarg Organs. Lawbekce.— Great Hypertrophy of the Bight Tonsil, hloeJcing up the Fharyncc; removal by the ecraseur, ivitliout any hcemorrhage. Lancet, Oct. 19th, p. 372. The tonsil, after removal, is described to have been of the size of a hen's egg. * Pauli, Dr. E.— On the Pathogenesis and Cure of Salivary Tumours. Langenbeck's Archiv flir Klin. Chir., vol. ii, part i, p. i. The author discusses the various theories of the formation of these tumours, all of which he considers non-proven. He divides ranulsB into primary and secondary; the former are dilatations of Wharton's duct, the latter are cystic cavities formed by the rupture of the distended duct, and the escape of its salivary contents into the surrounding cellular tissue. These two forms, or rather stages, of ranula he de- signates Ptyaloectasia and Ptyalocele. The latter Pauli treats with a tubular metallic ring, which consists of two halves united by a hinge- joint ; each half of the ring is perforated near the hinge and near the snap, so that in the complete ring there are two pairs of holes leading into the tube. The open ring is inserted in the ranula through two parallel incisions of three lines long, and then closed in such a manner that the hinge lies inside the tumour, whilst the snap is in the mouth. The indications for discontiuning the ring are—sinking of the granu- lations round it, and the more purulent nature of the discharge (less mixed with spittle) which flows through the holes in the ring. The advantage of Pauli's ring over Dupuytren's cylinder is the ease with which it may be removed from time to time for cleansing, and the im- possibility of its displacement. Together with this treatment Pauli employs iodine injections, by which the cure is hastened. AVeak solutions should be used at first, and afterwards stronger. Pauli gives Tinct. lod., i part to 4, 3, 2 and i of water, as the strength of those he uses, and attributes the evil consequences which occasionally attended this use of iodine by other surgeons to the employment of too strong mixtures. Ko^s, J. J.—Case of Salivary Calculus. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May ist, p. 129.