293 BLOOD-VESSELS. Pkitchaed, a.—Case of Popliteal Aneurism, cured hy forcible flexion. Brit. Med. Joiirn., Mai-ch 3otli, p. 335. . . . . A railway servant, a>t. 34. Extreme flexion was too pamtul to be continuously borne. A horse-shoe tourniquet was apphed Avhenever the flexion was relaxed. A cure was eftected in twenty-five days. '^mKS.iT.—Aneurism of the rigid Popliteal Artery; compression ; liga- ture of the femoral artery; cure. Lancet, May 25th, p. 509. The patient a dockyard artisan, set. 42. The aneurism, which had been only noticed three weeks, entirely filled the ham, and contained a considerable mass of fibrine. Pressure with a clamp and weight was tried for a week, but producing oedema and heat of the limb and fever- ishness, Birkett tied the (superficial ?) femoral artery. The ligature separated on the nineteenth day. The anem-ism slowly shrank and hardened. BiEKETT.—Aneiorism of left Popliteal Artery; pressure on the femoral; ligature; acre. lb. A shipwright, set. 39, received a very violent blow on tlie outer side of the knee; one month after this he had an aching pain behind the joint, and in another month found a lump in his ham. Three months after the accident the tumom*, which filled the ham, pulsated very strongly; by stopping the circulation through it, it could be entirely emptied. Pressure was relinquished after a few days, on account of the restlessness and irritability induced by it, and the artery was tied at the usual place, October 9th. The thread came away on the twenty-fourth day.—November 9th. The man left the hospital, scarcely a trace of the aneurism remaining. Wbtmd of the Tibial Arteries. Wakley, T. H.—Extensive loound of the Leg, dividing the Anterior and Posterior Tibial Arteries; compression of the femoral artery; cure. Lancet, June 22nd, p. 609. VARICES. ^Ta-sroTS.—Varicocele of the Leg. Amer. J. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxviv, new series, Oct., p. 440. A notice of an injected specimen exhibited at the Path. Soc. of Philadelphia. The deep as well as the superficial veins were enormously dilated. Q-Eoss, S. W.—A remarkable case of Congenital Aneurismal Varix of the Leg and Foot. Amer. J. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxxiv, new series, Oct., p. 441. Great dilatation and tortuosity of the superficial veins, from the base toes to the knee, attended with aneurismal thrill, piUsation and a whilfang bruit de souffle. A deep, excavated, foul ulcer on the dorsum ol _ the. toot occasionally bled. The limb, utterly useless and very pamtul, was amputated, and the patient, a woman, ^t. 43, cUed on the twenty-eighth day, of pyajmia. ; 20