PSYCHIATKIK. 173 iu four fifths the cases of mania which terminate in general paralysis, and that hypochondriacal delirium is met with ahout as frequently iu melancholic paralytics, while it is rare among those attacked with simple melancholy. B.u-L-L\nGETi.—Simple General Paralysis (case). Gaz. des H6p., 38, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 87. Baillarger remarks of these cases that they begin with congestion and end with atrophy. The cerebrum was much atrophied, the cerebellum normal. KiESER.—Post-mortem appearances in the Insane, Wurtemb. Med. Corr. Bl., 40, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 84. Autopsies were made of twelve melancholies, eleven maniacal, and ten paralytic patients. In all these were found very manifest alterations in the brain and cord or in the membranes, but no kind of morbid change was peculiar to any one of the three forms, so that it appeared that profound anatomical lesions were much more dependent on the duration than on the specific form of insanity. Softening was more common than induration, capillary apoplexy was common, more extensive was rare. FiNKELNBURG.—On the influence of the Imitative Tendency on the Diffu- sion of Sporadic Insanity. Ztschr, f. Psychiatr., xviii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 85. Finkelnburg relates twelve well-marked cases of communication of insanity from one relative to another, the person second affected usually nursing or attending upon the first. In only a small number of the cases was there any hereditary tendency. Finkelnburg observes that the insane ought never to be attended by their relatives, and that even in asylums the attendants, especially the female ones, should be changed occasionally. Ltjnd.—Skulls of Idiots. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Lund exhibited two contrasting specimens, one in which there was great hypertrophy of the diploe, the consequence of rickets, the other thinned, so as to be in some places translucent from atrophy. The average thickness of the first was '75 inch, of the latter 'i inch. LocKiiAKT Robertson, C.—Some 7-esidts of Night-nursing. Journ. of Mental Science, Oct., 1861. Robertson requires the night attendants to visit all the habitually dirty patients at fixed times, and to observe their condition. Soiled sheets are to be changed, and the patients made to attend to the calls of nature. These enforced habits of cleanhness at night result in cleanly habits by day. LocKnART Robertson, C.—On the sedative action of the Cold Wet Sheet in the treatment of recent Mania, with cases; a contribution to the curative treatment of Mental Disease. Journ. of Mental Sc. July, 1861. Rohertson says the wet sheet abstracts heat and lowers the pulse, and, while cooling the surface of the skin, also, by reaction, determines the blood to the surface, and so restores the natural pirspiration. It further