^^-i HKVOK'r ox MinWlPERY, ETC. JOULIN.—0/j Pemphigus of the Cervix Uteri. L'Un., March, 1861, p. 44. Sims, Dr. Maiiton.—Amputation of the Cervix Uteri. Trans, of Med Soc, New York, 1861. The author records tliree cases in wliich he operated in a somewhat novel manner. Alter cutting away the cervi.x by scissors, he brings the opposite edges of the vaginal mucous membrane together so as to cover the raw surface, securing them by silver sutures. The parts heal by (he first intention. In the reprinted edition of the paper six additional cases are related in which this procedure was adopted. Mayer, C.—On Amputation of Cancroid or Cauliflower Excrescence of the Cervix Uteri. Mou. f. Geb., July, 1861, p. 12, Tlie case of a patient set. 52 is related. The amputation was per- formed with curved scissors, and the cut surfaces touched with the hot iron. Greenhalgh, Dr.—On the Removal of the Cervix Uteri. Med, Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, 1861, p. 237. A case is related in which an hypertrophied cervix was amputated by the ecraseur. The patient did well. Wells, Spencer.—Lecture on some Remediable Causes of Sterility. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th, 1861, p. 601. After enumerating the various causes of sterility, the author alludes particulai'ly to the treatment of cases in which there is contraction of the canal of the cervix uteri. He recommends dilatation of the canal by means of Simpson's metrotome. In cases where this instrument cannot be introduced, the enlargement of the canal is to be effected by means of Coghlaa's probe-pointed knife. Rotter.—Case of Occlusion of the Os Uteri and Vagina in a Pregnant Woman, with the results of the same. Wien. Wochensch., i860, 15. Waller, Dr.—Induration of the Cervix Uteri; Uterine Leucorrhaa. Med. Circ, Feb. 6th, 1861. INFLAMaiATION AND TUBERCLE OF THE UTERUS. Tilt, Dr.—On the Antiphlogistic Treatment of Uterine Inflammation. Lancet, Jan. 12th, 1861, p. 31. In the treatment of uteriiie inflammation Dr. Tilt believes bloodletting to be frequently efficacious. The application of leeches, and the circum- stances under which they are indicated, are here discussed. Tilt, Dr.—Treatment of Uterine Inflammation by Injections, External Applications, Resolutives, Counter-irritants, Sedatives, Baths, and Dietetics. Lancet, Feb. 2nd, 1861, p. 106. Tl>e author gives a summary of his views on the treatment of uterine inflammation by the means jn question.