7S llEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. usual, from tlie mechanical itressure thai the water exerts upon everij inch of the chest, aud also of the abtloineu. The hot-air batli fails to assist the respiratiou, wliilst the water bath, with all the bad qualities of the hot-air, directly impedes it. There is, theu, a treble tendeucy to death by apnoea it the di-owned person is placed iu the hot bath. There is— (i) The partial or complete apnuja already occasioned by submersion; (2) the increased congestion of the lungs by the heat (from the heart stimulation) ; and (3) the mechanical barrier to lung action from the pressure of the water. OsBOiiNE, Dr. Jonathan.—PF% is not the I^xpired Air Be-insnired? Dublin Quart. Journ., Med. Sc., Nov., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 26th, p. 100. The expired air is divided by the septum of the nose into two currents projecting downwards at an angle of 4 5°, and separating from each other at an angle of 80°. The inspired air is taken from the fresh air lying between the two jets. Traube.—On the Penetration of particles of Oharcoal into the interior of the Respiratory Apparatus. Deutsche Klinik, i860, Nos. 49,50. Canst., vol. i, p. 135. This physician examined microscopically the dark-coloured sputa of a man aged fifty-four who had for twelve years been engaged in carrying charcoal, and found that they contained particles of that sub- stance, many of them enclosed in cells. These foreign bodies produced no serious derangement in the lungs. Subsequent examination, post mortem, revealed the presence in the bronchi and vesicles of numerous molecules which had penetrated into the epithelium-cells. CzEEMAK.—The Laryngoscope, and its practical ap)plicationin Physiology and Medicine. 8vo, Leipzig, 1860. As this monograph is now in the hands of every member of the New Sydenham Society, it is unnecessary tp give an analysis of its contents. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Bkinton, Dr. "W.—On Food and Digestion; heing an introduction to . Dietetics. Post 8vo, London, 1861. TuBNER, "Wii. —0/i ^/«e Chemical Properties of the Smnan Pancreatic Juice. Journ. de la Physiol, April, 1861, p. 221. His, "W.—Researches on the Structure of the Lymphatic Glands. Plates. 8vo, Leipzig, i86i. EoLLESTON, Dr.—On the Homologies of the Loles of the Liver in Mam- malia. Transactions Brit. Assoc., 1861. BoTTCHEE, A.—Some Facts tending to harmonise the conflicting views regarding the Follicular Olands at the root of the Tongue. Yir- chow's Archiv, vol. xviii, p. 190. Canst., vol. i, p. 82. Eegarding these glands, which he holds to be new formations, this