ALKALOIDS. 425 remains of some dumplings which hnd been taken for supper. Suljee- quently, vomiting of similar matters was twice induced by emetics. Shortly'after, the patient began to tear violently at his nose and hair, and scratched his face, wrists, and other parts of his body. A few seconds later, clonic spasms came on, which lasted some minutes. Then he crossed his arms over his chest, breathed noisily, stretched himself out at full length, arched his body backwards, and then lay like a corpse, breathless and pulseless. On feeling the wrist, another paroxysm was induced, which began with clonic spasms, gradually becoming tonic, and terminating in opisthotonos. After the fit he became conscious. The treatment consisted in the alternate exhibition of tannin and emetics, at intervals of a quarter of an hour. The paroxysms continued, but became less severe and of shorter duration, the patient tearing and scratching himself as above described in the intervals. About halt-past twelve the emetic was discontinued, and the patient was able to relate the previous circumstances. The tannin was continued in doses of three grains, com- bined with a quarter of a grain of codein. At four a.m. both the vomiting and the convulsions had ceased. The patient had snatches of sleep, and towards morning complained only of oppression and dryness of the throat. The tannin was continued for the first day every half hour, and subse- quently every hour. In three days the patient's convalescence was estab- lished, and no after symptoms presented themselves. The author attri- butes most of the spasmodic phenomena observed to strychnia, but he considers the twitching of the nose and wrists, and the dilatation of the pupils (?) observed at the beginning, to the morphia. That recovery should have followed after such enormous doses of morphia and strychnia he considers explicable, partly by the circumstance that he had eaten heartily immediately before of a food calculated to envelope the poison, and moreover containing tannin (the hurtle-berries), partly by the antago- nistic action of the two alkaloids. Part.—Case of Poisoning by Strychnia. Lancet, March 30th. On the I St of October, i860. Dr. Part was called to see a female servant, set. 31, who was then in a state of tetanic spasm. On the cessa- tion of the contractions, an emetic of sulphate of zinc was administered, which for three quarters of an hour produced no effect, while "slight tetanic spasms, like electric shocks," recurred from time to time, espe- cially when she was touched, and she frequently ejaculated, " Oh, hold me !" A second emetic was then given, and the patient, at her own request, was hiid on the floor. A paroxsym of greater violence than any that preceded it was thereupon induced, which was marked by contortion of the features, cyanosis, proptosis, and mydriasis, rigid extension of the arms, extension and abduction of the legs, and opisthotonos. On relaxation of the spasm a gasp took place and she appeared to be dead, but another gasp followed and respiration was thus established. In ten minutes more she vomited freely, after which she improved, the paroxsyms rapidly diminishing in violence, and in eleven hours she was convalescent. In one of the intervals she confessed that she had taken a packet of " B.ittle's Vermin-killer." In the remainder of t!ie paper J)r. Part investigates tiie claims of various substances to be regarded as chemical