llKPOliT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIXK. Hserully employed in tlie treatment of certain cases <./ the disease, and especially wlien it occurs in young and robust persons, whose strength has not been broken down by prolonged habits of intemperance, and particu- larly when it arises as the immediate result of excessive spirit-drinking. Dawson, W.—On the use of Turpentine in Delirium Tremens. Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. Dawson administers §ss of 01. Tereb. and gss of 01. Ricini in this dis- order, " with invariable success." Inman, T.—Ort some points of Cerebral Pathology. Lond. Med. Rev., March, 1861. Inman argues that the state of the brain in impending apoplexy ap- proaches to that of senile gangrene, and that the correct practice is to improve the nutrition of the enffebled part. Barclay and Janes.—On the Natural History ofInsolatio." Amer. Med. Times, July 6th. The predisposing causes are—(i) plethora and unacclimatization ; (2) all debilitating causes ; (3) inaction of the skin and bowels; (4) exposure to an atmosphere highly charged with electricity. Death occurs—(i) from the affection of the nervous system alone; (2) from (i) with arrest of the pulmonary circulation, or (3) with cerebral congestion; (4) from a subsequent severe febrile attack, with serous effusion within the cra- nium. The cold douche, blisters to the neck, sinapisms to the extremi- ties and chest, and purgative enemata, were found useful remedies. Inha- lation of chloroform was beneficial in some cases seized with convulsions from the first. BoNSDORFF. — Case of Alcoholophilia Pei;iodica, Hygiea, vol. xx. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 178. Bonsdorff regards this affection as a paralysis of the sympathetic nerves of the stomach. Huss relates a similar case. Hessert.—On Tuherculous Meningitis. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 5, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 28. Hessert communicates eight cases of meningeal tubercle which he ob- served. In tA\ but one chronic tuberculosis preceded, and in this there was rachitis and syphilis. Five of the eight patients were between two and ten years old. The first stage of the disease, i. e. to the commence- ment of somnolence, occupied three to thirteen d.iys ; the second, to death, one to five days. The course and symptoms of the disease were very various, the variety appearing to depend chiefly on the previous state of health. Continuous pain in the foreiiend or vertex, with exacerbations, •was always the first symptom, and lasted until consciousness was lost. Recovery is possible ; at least, obsolete tubercle has been found in the pia mater of children dying of other diseases. Hessert avoids ail lowering treatment, applies ice to the liead, keeps the bowels open, and gives, if the vomiting cease, quinine, and if the strength fail, vine. BOURROUSSE.—lofl^ne in Tubercular Meningitis. Monit. des Sc. Med., No. 73. Med. Times and Gaz., July i3lh.