441 ANIMAL POISONS. an antiseptic, particularly for the purpose of preserving subjects for dissection. ^PR&TLY.—Scabies successfully treated with Coal-tar Naphtha. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 464. _ The author gives an encouraging account of the curative etfect of a single application of this agent to the affected surface in a bad case of itch. Deschamps.—On the action of the aromatic principle of Coal Tar on Phosphorus. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 412. This research was undertaken with a view to elucidate the mode of action of the vapour of coal tar in pulmonary affections, as observed by Dr. Sales-Girons. The author establishes the fact, by numerous and varied experiments, that air impregnated with the aroma of tar has no action on phosphorus. He further demonstrates that no oxygen is absorbed ; "it simply becomes inactive, or, in other words, its properties are paralysed and become latent." The same action is exercised by benzine, ether, and the volatile oils of turpentine, mint, and lemon. Grace Cal"vekt.—On some applications of Carbolic Acid or Oxide of Phenyle. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 319. Demeaux.—Coal-tar Emulsion, or Sapo7iiJied Coal Tar. Journ. de Phar- macie, vol. xxxix, p. 286. Saponified coal-tar consists of equal parts of coal-tar, soap, and alcohol, heated together on the water-bath until perfect solution takes place. Mixed with water in the proportion of one part in 100, it forms the emulsion, which is stated to be one of the most useful preparations of coal-tar as a disinfectant. Leriche.—Tannin as an Antiperiodic. Bull, de Thdr., vol. Ixi, p. 410. M. Leriche has employed tannin in ague, in doses of twenty-four to thirty grains, given two or three hours before the attack, with invariable success. Two or three doses are usually sufficient. ANIMAL POISONS. Dehne.—Cases of Poisoning hy Spoilt Meat and Broth and Stale Fat. Nass. Med. Jhrbb., xxxvi, p. 736. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 25. In the first instance related, three persons partook of beef which had been cooked four days previously, and had been kept in a larder; all of them shortly after experienced lipothymia, with cold sweating, vertigo, drowsiness, and acute precordial pain. The pulse was almost imper- ceptible, and the extremities cold. After the administration of emetics, enemata, and subsequently stimulants, the condition of the patients improved. Next morning they were convalescent. On another occasion a family of very poor persons partook of a mess of stale broth, potatoes, and lettuce. All had pharyngeal constriction, diarrhoea, vomiting, vertigo, headache, and stupor. The lips were slightly leaden and the pupils dilated, but there was no impairment of vision. There was great pros-