9 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. and in so doing gives out a certain amount of heat and performs a certain amount of work. The living animal, therefore, like the dead machine, changes chemical force into mechanical power. The laws of animal life agree therefore with the law of the conservation of force. The idea that the physical forces in the living body are under the power of a "vital principle" is gradually yielding to the opinion that aU forces in the living body, as far as they produce chemical and mechanical effects, are of the same character as those of inorganic nature. This is the fundamental principle of physiology alluded to in the beginning of this abstract. The author concludes by saying that physiologists in the beginning of the present century thought that it detracted from the dignity and nature of life to suppose that the blood was driven through the vessels by the mechanical action of the heart, or that respiration took place according to the common laws of the diffusion of gases. The present generation, however, is hard at work finding out the real causes of the different processes going on in the living body. They believe that there is no other difference between the chemical and mechanical actions in the living body and out of it than can be explained by the more complicated circumstances and conditions under which these actions take place, and we have seen that the law of the conservation of force legitimises this supposition, OSSEOUS SYSTEM, ETC. ViECHOW (Berlin).— On the Theory of the Vertelrate ShiU. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 23rd, p. 537. "Wabd, p. O.— Otitlines of Iltman Osteologij. 2nd edit. 32mo, London. HoLDEK, Ltjthee.—Suman Osteology; comprising a description of the Bones, toith delineations of the Attachments of Mmcles. 3rd edit. 8vo, London. CxELAifD, Dr. JoHK.—On the relations of the Vomer, Ethmoid, and Intermaxillary Bones. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 44, p. 163. HxHTL.—On the Pnewnatic Process of the Occipital Bone. Trans. Brit, Assoc., 1861. "WiLKENS, M.—On the Chemical Constitution of Cartilaginotis Tissue. Zeitsch. £ w. Zool., vol. x, p. 467. Canst., vol. i, jjp. 40, 43. LiTSCHKA.—The Steo-no-pericardial Ligaments of the Horse, Verb. d. Wiirzb. phys. med. 6es., vol. x. IIes-ke, H.— The Mechanism of the Douhle Joints tvith intervening Cartilages. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., i860. Lanqer.—T7<e Articulation of the Lower Jaw of Man. Sitz. ber. d. "Wiener Akad., vol. xxxix, p. 457. EoBix and Magitot.—Memoir on the Origin and Bevelojmient of the Dental Follicles until the time of Cutting the Teeth. Journ. de la Physiol., Jan., 1861, p. 60; April, p. 145. Salteu, S James A., M.B.—0;^ the Structure and Growth of the Tooth oj- Echinus. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 44, p. 166. lIuMPHiiEY, Hr.—Observations on the Oroivth of the Long Bones and of St imps. Trans. Eoy. Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. xliv, p. 117.