REPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 206 Hill, \V, R.—An Analysis of 220 Cases of Pulmonary Consumption. Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Rev., Oct., 1861. Of these (observed at the Brompton Hospital) 15a were males and 68 females. Of the whole, 104 were decidedly improved, 2 5 unimproved, 41 got worse, and 50 died. Hill follows Virchow's account of the cellular nature of tubercle. The female sex is attacked in a much larger proportion than the male before the age of thirty, and in a still larger ratio befoi-e twenty. As to hereditary predisposition, 46*5 per cent, had con- sumptive relatives, while 53-5 per cent, had none. The predisposition is greater in females than in males—(3 12). As to physical signs, Hill admits that dull percussion may be absent—(i) when emphysema exists, (2) when the other side is greatly more diseased, (3) when miliary tubercle is scattered through the lung. He has noted deficient respiratory murmur, rough or uneven, and harsh, as deviations from the normal state, which at a later period have been proved to result from com- mencing tubercular deposit. Haemoptysis occurred in 75 per cent., 5 deaths took place where it was very profuse, and in 4 of these there were large vomicae. It is difficult to ascertain whether haemoptysis may not precede the cough ; patients are positive that it does, and that by many months. Among Hill's cases the right lung was most diseased in 65 per cent, of the males, and only in 457 per cent, of the females. Staveley King, H.—On the relative value of the Physical Signs of Early Phthisis. Lond. Med. Rev., June, 1861. Staveley King dwells on the little value of percussion in the early stages, as above the clavicle a great variety of sounds can be elicited by sUght variations in the mode of percussing, and below the clavicle the sound is naturally duller on the right side. With regard to breath-sounds. King is of opinion that simple deficiency of the secretion proper to mucous mem- branes is sufficient to convert the vesicular into dry types of respiration, from the simple manifestation of the expiratoi^y sound to unmistakeable bronchial breathing. Jerking respiration he considers a valuable sign, and also vocal fremitus. The preponderance of elevation over expansion movements he considers very significant. Flint, A.—Clinical Report on the treatment of Phthisis hy Pot. Chlorat. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Oct., 1861. In full doses—5iij—5iv per diem—Flint found the drug to exert no special efficacy in arresting or retarding the disease. No bad effect was produced. Cotton, R. V.—On the action of Phosphorus upon Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., July 6th. • -m \ Cotton gave to 25 patients in.v—x of 01. Phosphor. (Prussian Pharm.) for some length of time (1—8 weeks) bis vel ter die. The result was, that 4 improved greatly, 5 slig^itly, and 16 either remained stationary or became worse. He concludes that the drug exerts no specific action upon phthisis. Harkin, Alkx.—Ow the use of Chlorate of Potass in the treatment of Consumption and Scrofula. DubUu Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Nov., 1861. i