DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 85 in the weavers. The A aviiitiou in the amount of fieees ou Sunday from that of other days Avas not uniform, since it was less in the weavers and was equal in the tailors. Budge.—Ort tlie Course of the Bile-ducts. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 18^9, p. 462. Eeicheet, 0. 'Q.—N'ote on Budge's Paper. lb., p. 6^6. Theile.—O/i Budge's Paper. 'Schmidt's Jahrb., i860, p. 11. Canst., vol. i, pp. 73, 104. Budge alleges tliat the bile-ducts, far from becoming dilated within the lobules, as Beale teaches, are considerably constricted there, form- ing a network traceable almost to the vena centralis and enclosing the liver-cells. In this view, therefore, the lobules contain a double set of capillary vessels, sanguiferous and biliferous, the interspaces being occupied by the hepatic cells, which the author believes to be devoid of an enveloping membrane. Eeichert considers the vessels described by Budge to be lymphatic, not biliary. He believes that the hepatic duct arises in a cavernous struc- ture comparable to that of the penis, the septa of both systems being analogous, and the vasa vasorum of the penis corresponding to the capillaiy network betwixt the vena portae and hepatic vein, whilst the hepatic cells represent the blood in the other case. Theile takes Budge's " ducts " for intercellular spaces. "Wagxer, C.—Contribution to the Normal Structure of the Liver. "Wagner's Archiv d. Heilk., i860, p. 251. Canst., vol. i, p. 74. "With Beale the author maintains that the liver-cells found amid the venous, arterial, lymphatic, and biliary capillaries, which with them form the acini, are enclosed in a special membranous sac, best seen in exceed- ingly thin sections of fresh, uninjected livers. The envelope is elastic and homogeneous, containing neucleolated neuclei in its substance. The granules, yellow corpuscles, fat, and cell-fragments found within it by Beale form no part of its normal contents. If, as the author inclines to believe, the cells disappear and are replaced by successive generations, the new ones probably originate by division, not of the old cells, but of the parietal nuclei. Pavy, Dr. F. "W.—Contributions to the Physiolocjij of the Liver.— (1) The influence of an Acid in irrodticinc/ Saccharine Urine. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 3.3.5• (2) Lfluence of AlJcaliea. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 43, p. 90. The author relates a number of experiments made with the view of ascertaining the power of phosphoric acid in producing artifi- cial diabetes. He finds that, by injecting eight, twelve, or sixteen drachms of pharmacopceial pliosphoric acid into the general circula- tion of dogs, a saccharine state of the urine can be readily induced. The same result also follows the introduction of the acid into the duodenum. When, however, the acid is injected into the portal circula- tion, it coagulates the blood, and fails to produce artificial diabetes. The • conclusions advanced in the second communication are—