284. UEPOUT ON SURGKRY. Pagexstfx'iiki!, Di'.—(T/t'o cascn of) Jiescclion of the Ilip-joint. Laugeubeck'H Arcliiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 313. CoLLis, M. II.—Case of Excismi of tho Hip-joinf. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April isfc, p. 102. A boy. Disease of two years' standing. Progress afterwards favorable. CoLLis, M. II.—Excision of the Rip-joint. Dublin Med. Press, March 27th, p. 212. Description of a case (then under treatment) communicated to the Surgical Society of Ireland. Excision of the Knee-joint. Stmpsoit, T.—Sesult of a case in which Excision of the Knee-joint was performed three years ago. Brit. Med. Jouru., Aug. 17th, p. 171. Smith, H.—The present condition of a limb where Excision of the Knee- joint was performed six years ago. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 5th, p. II. The shortening was two and a half inches more than at the time of the first measurement. Peith.—Excision of tlie Knee-joint; report of the state of the limb four years afterwards. Med. Times and Gaz., July 20th, p. 59. Pirm consolidation of the parts, slight displacement of the tibia backwards, and slight outward bow of the limb, which was flexed at 135°. It was also four and a half inches shorter than its fellow. The boy could walk a long distance. # Cantox.—Two cases of Excision of the Knee-joint for forcible separation of the Ejnphyses from the shaft of the Femur. Dublin Quart. Journ., Peb. ist, p. 75. Peequsson, AV.—Re-excision of the Knee-joint tvhere the primary operation was zmfavorable ; successful result. Lancet, May i8th, p. 483. J. B—, a}t. 17, had had the right knee-joint excised, in the north of England, in December, 1859. Several sinuses remained obstinately open. The limb, however, gained strength, and Avith a stick she became able to ■walk across the room. At the time of her admission into King's College Hospital, October 4th, i860, under Pergusson's care, the upper extremity of the tibia was displaced behind the lower end of the femur, the front of which lay exposed at the bottom of a large sinus. November 17th, the ends of the femur and tibia were cut oft'. The girl was discharged from the hospital at the end of the month. Tlie left lower extremity was five inches shorter than the right, and quite straight. There -was slight movement at the knee, but already so firm union that she could walk half the length of a long ward without splint or crutches.