203 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. in June and July'7. in August and September o. Forty-five per cent, of all the cases were under tliirly years. Left-side pneumonia was notably more frequent among females than males. In 66 cases the disease set in rapidly, mostly with sharp rigors. A pulse of 120 and upwards was observed in 9 cases below the age of fourteen, who all recovered; the same was noted in 31 adults, of whom 10 died. Delirium occurred in 8 of the 10 fatal and in 11 of the 62 recovered cases. Icterus occurred twice among the fatal (10) and twice among the non-fatal (62) cases. Herpes of the nose or lips was noticed in 2 of the fatal, and in 35 of the non-fatal cases. The mortality rose with advancing age ; of 33 patients under the age of thirty, o died; of 10 between thirty and forty, i ; of 7 between fifty and sixty, 3 ; of 6 between sixty and seventy, 3. Treat- ment was essentially symptomatic; venesection was resorted to only twice. . Roth, F.—Contribution to the Statistics of Pneumonia. Wurzb. Med. Zeitschr., i, 3, 4. Canstatt's Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 201. Among Roth's patients in the course of three years from May, 1857, to April, i86oj the pneumonic cases amounted to 4*79 per cent. The mor- tality was 18-94 per cent., 45 dying out of 237. Comparing Roth's results with those of Bamberger, Lebert, Griesinger, Rigler, Hirsch, Hamernjk, and the Vienna Hospital physicians, it is evident that the mortality in different years varies considerably. Social influences are also to be taken into account, e.g. whether patients are brought from a distance in the country or from the immediately adjacent town. In some places double pneumonias are more frequent than in others, and in these there will be a heavier mortality. The mortality among females is much greater than among males, 23*59 • i6"2i per cent. Veratrin was tried in four.cases, and the results seem to be favorable. Williams, T.—On the uncertainty of the Sputum as a Diagnostic Feature in Pneumonia. Lancet, Sept. 7th. Williams observed thirty cases, of which twenty-six occurred in the same season, and therefore under the same climatal conditions. In five only was there rusty expectoration, in one it was hsemoptysical, in one it was prune-juice, in two the sputa were slightly tinged, in three they were simply clear mucus, in twenty there was no cough or expectoration. Russell, J.—On the use of Stimulants in Pneumonia. Brit. Med. J., March 2nd. Russell believes that disease at the present day does not endure de- pleting or even depressing treatment to the same extent as in former days. He also believes that inflammation need not run its course, but that it may be cut short. With regard to stimulants, he considers that their use must be regulated by the circumstances presented to us, and that they may be therefore positively injurious, or, on the contrary, abso- lutely necessary. In particular, he observes that full doses of brandy, where required, cause no intoxication, and that under their use the local symptoms disappear very rapidly. lie gives eight very illustrative cases of difterent kinds of pneumonia and of the correspondingly difierent treatment found beneficial.