DlSBASESj ETC.j OF THE TCETUS. 401 absence of urtemia, or of considerable dropsical symptoms during 104 hours. When the urine had begun to be secreted freely, then the uruemic brain symptoms set in. The urine was very slightly albuminous. Part IV.—DISEASES, ETC., OE THE ECETUS. Panum.—^Researches on the origin of Malformations, especially in the Effff of the Bird. With 107 figures. Berlin, i860. This is ,1 work containing the result of extended and novel researches on the origin of malformations. The author found that addled eggs mostly contained malformed embryos; he found that by alternating the tem- perature he could produce malformations at will, and abundant oppor- tunity was thus afforded for studying the subject. The various malforma- tions observed are systematically described and discussed. Lammekt.—On Malformations. Virch. Arch., 1861, 22, p. 336. Newman and Harlev, Drs.—Case of a patient who, in eighteen preg- nancies, gave birth to only seven Uuing children, the eleven others having been expelled dead at various periods of gestation, Obst. Trans., vol. iii. There was no evidence that the parents had ever laboured under syphilis, or of their being the subjects of hereditary disease. Cooke, Louis H..—Cases illustrative of the independent liability of the Foetus to Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th, 1861, p. 401. In one case related, a child was born covered with well maturated pustules of variola. The mother had been vaccinated, and M'as then well. Four days after the mother became affected with variola. In a second case related, a child was born with well-marked eruption of herpes zoster, the mother being free from any affection of the kind. ' New cases illustrative of the influence of Lead-poisoning on the lirodiict of Conception. Gaz. des Hop., March 23rd, 1S61. RiCHET.—Double Hare-lip and Irregular Formation nf Lower Lip. L'Uu., April, 1861, p. 190. Hanks, Dr.—./ case of United Children, or Double Monstrosity. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Waklev, TnoiiAS.—Cases of Supernumerary Thumb, Imperforate Va- gina, and Imperfect Development of the Far. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, 1861, p. 421, Sciiui/rzE.—A case of Ileterotaxie of the abdominal and thoracic viscera, and probably Patent Foramen Ovale, with Remarks. Virch. Arch.' 1861, 22, p. 209. ' Young, Ed. Va-rki^v..—Complete Transposition of all the thoracic and 'abdominal viscera. Lancet, June 29th, 1861, p. 630. Tlic subject of the ca.se was a lady, aged 8 f;.