OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 355 iniurioxis effect, xvhen properly administered, upon either mother or child. (A It is quite iustifiable to use chloroform in natural labour simply to relieve pain (4) It is especially useful for calming extreme agitation and mental excitement in nervous women. (5) It should be administered in those cases of natural labour where the progress is suspended or much re- tarded by the pain occasioned by previous disease, or such as may super- vene during labour, and in those cases when the irregular and partial con- traction occasions intense and almost constant pain, without eftect in ad- vancin'' labour. (6) It is of great service in spasmodic contraction and ri<^idit? of the cervix uteri, in tetanic rigidity of the perineeum, m certain forms of puerperal convulsions, and in the various obstetrical operations. Martin.—0« i7ihalation of Chloroform in Midwifery Practice. AUg. Med. Cent. Ztg., i86r, 20. The results of 1000 cases are given. The narcosis is much more easily produced in women in labour than in others ; 5j of chloroform was rarely exceeded. The progress of the labour was not interfered with ; no un- favorable results were noticed. The author considers it important that the sleep following the exhibition of the chloroform be not disturbed ; that the chloroform be given in very small quantities, especially at first, and largely mixed with air. CiiosKEiiY, Hugh.—Ancesthesia in Midwifery. West Indian Quarterly Magazine, Aug., 1861, p. i. The author advocates the employment of anaesthesia in midwifery practice. GuELMi.—Ancesthesia, and particularly in cases of Labour. Ann. Univ. di Med., 1861. The author examines the objections made to the use of anaesthesia in midwifery, and shows their futility. He has derived most advantage from its employment when the uterus was rigid, and introduction of hand for version, &c., difficult. ERGOT OP RYE, ELECTRICITY, IN LABOUR. West, Dr. Uvedale.—Is the Ergot of Rye, when administered to the Mother during Labour, dangerous or not to the life of the Child? A practical inquiry. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. This is the continuation of an inquiry of which some results were pub- lished in December, 185^. The cases formerly published were 69 in number. In consequence of certain criticisms on those cases, made by Danyau on the part of the Academy of Medicine of Paris, to the effect that in a more extended series of cases more unfavorable results would be obtained, the author had continued his inquiries. The cases now brought forward extend over six years, and include 173 cases in which ergot was given on a total number of 734 cases attended. Only 5 of these were stillborn from all causes, viz., 3 putrid at birth, i with placenta prsevia and profuse hfiemorrhage, premature, and 1 with prolapsed funis. Including the cases of both series of investigations, there were.1013 labours, 242 ergot cases (one a case of twins). In the whole there were 14 still-births from all