17 JIUSCULAE SYSTEM. The author's inquiries ou the mode of termination of the muscular nerves may he summed up as follows:—He states that the sartorius of the frof, after lying twenty-four hours in hydrochloric acid diluted to one-tenth p. c, is found to be so transparent that the branches of nerve may be clearly traced. These frequently form loops, from which issue primitive fibres, running between the muscular fasciculi, and bifurcating in their course. At the two ends of the muscle however, no nerve-fibres are to be seen, even with the best micro- scope. By separating the fibres of the fresh muscle the ultimate divi- sions of the primitive nerve-fibres may each be seen to form a nodule Avhich is intimately connected with the muscular fibre. _ All the nerve- fibres contain medullary substance. Having sought in vain to trace the intra-muscular terminations of the nerve in the mammalia, the author pui-sued the iuquiry in insects. The nerves of the Hydrophilus are essentially similar to those of higher animals. Just before they pierce the sarcolemma, the sheath, the medulla, and sometimes a rela- tively broad cylinder-axis are still visible ; but within the sarcolemma the axis, no longer surrounded by medulla, merges into a series of mole- cules, believed by the author to be a continuation of its substance, and eventually to become undistinguisliable from the contractile elements. With regard to muscular irritability the author states that:— (i) yince excitation of the motor nerves produces twitchings more easily than that of the muscular substance, it is found that tlie faintest electric currents capable of inducing contraction of the middle of tlie sartorius, (where the nerve enters) are ineff"ective when applied to the (nerveless) ends, though a stronger current there produces the same eifect as when addressed to the nerve. (2) The excitability of the tract sujiplied with nerves diminishes from the centre towards both ends of the muscle with the lessening supply of nei-ves. (3) Glycerine, however long applied to the nerveless region of the muscle, never pro- vokes a trace of contraction, whereas in the nervous portion it leads to tetanus. (4) Extremely faint electric currents produce local spasms wherever the nerves are wanting, whilst they excite powerful and ex- tensive contractions where nerves exist. (5) Owing to the subdivision of the primitive nerve-fibres, reversed conduction may be demonstrated in the motor fibres. It must be premised that heat of 104°, distilled water, dilute hydrochloric acid (one tenth p. c.) or solution of sulpho- cyanide of potassium (one p. c), are agents which destroy-the muscular, but not the nervous power. Now, if, after the operation of one of these upon a portion of the muscle, that spot be iri-itated, fibrillar twitchings ensue, but only at remote and unaifected parts. The atithor here relates an interesting experiment in illustration of tliis point. If one end of the sartorius be longitudinally divided, and a succession of cross sections be made in one of the heads, test-irritants being applied to each section as it is made, a nervous spot is at last reached, where the contractions, previously limited to one-half of the muscle, extend to the whole. Yet, even here, the twatching is unilateral if the irritants be such as act on muscle alone. With reference to the origin of rigor mortis, the author remarks— (i)'that its appearance is almost invariably heralded by acid reaction 2