DISEASES OF WOMEN. 373 allowed to escape by means of an opening made for the purpose ratlier than run the risk of its being absorbed. In conclusion, the author dis- cusses the question of the propriety of operating at all in what may be termed "unfavorable" cases^ Wells, Spencek.—7%ree cases of Ovariotomy. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. In two of these cases recovery followed the operation ; in one, death. Wells, Spencer. —Ovarian Cysts and Tumours removed by Ovariotomy. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 156. Specimens from seven cases in which ovariotomy was performed are here described. The cases themselves are related in ' Med. Times and Gaz.' for i860 and 1861. Wells, ^v&^c-e.^.—Compound Ovarian Cyst; ovariotomy; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 9th, 1861, p. 145. Wells, Spenceb.—Five cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 23rd, 1861, p. 528. These cases include cases No. 25 to 29 inclusive, of this operator. The first case of the five was an unfavorable one for operation, and ter- minated fatally four days after. The second died on the second day. The third and fourth cases made perfect recoveries; the fifth died. Wells, Spencer.—On the Treatmeiit of large Ovarian Cysts and Tumours. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 21st, 28th, 1861, pp. 656, 679. The author gives the conclusions at which he has arrived respecting the treatment of these cases of oviirian disease. When the cysts or tumours are so large as to seriously interfere with health and comfort, and when ordi- nary medical or palliative treatment is of no avail, the average duration of life does not, under such circumstances, exceed two years. In specific treatment the autlior has no confidence. When surgical aid is required we are to be guided by the nature and connexion of the tumour in se- lecting one or other of the following methods :—Simple tapping through the abdominal wall, through the vagina, or through the rectum; tapping, followed by pressure; tapping and formation of a permanent subcutaneous opening in the cyst-wall, or formation of a permanent opening through the skin, vagina, or rectum ; incision ; tapping, fol- lowed by injection of iodine; and ovariotomy. The respective value and dangers of each of these procedures is then canvassed. Tapping is not free from danger. Injection of iodine seems chiefly advisable where the cyst is a single, large one, and where simple tapping has proved useless, and where ovariotomy is forbidden. The author has constructed an in- Btrument by means of which entry of air before or during the injection vith iodine is absolutely prevented, and one source of danger removed. A watery solution (20 gr. of iodine and 30 of iodide of potassium in I oz. of water) is preferred to the alcoholic. Ovariotomy is a danger- ous operation, but it is, the author contends, quite as favorable in its results as many other capital operations. When a cyst is single, it should not be performed until simple tapping, or tapping and iodine, have both bejen tried. The total number of cases in which ovariotomy was performed by the author is thirty; of these, nineteen recovered, eleven