HKPORT on PnACTICAL MKnrriNE, 208 both ns (0 the general and pulmonary symptoms, and 4 might be regarded as cured. Dkscamps.—On the use ofPulv. Doveri in Phthisis. Gaz. Med. de Lyons, Jan., 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., .luly, 1861. Descamps states that it is uniformly successful in arrestino- the sweating. Cotton, R. P.—On the Action of certain substances upon Phthisis. !iled. Times and Gnz., April 1.3th. Cotton found moderate doses of Liq. Potass, to be almost inert. Bennett, J. R.—Results of some trials of the Hypophosphites in the treatment of Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., April ayth. May 4th, I ith. Bennett adduces twenty cases under his care, of which there were onlv nine in which the disease did not steadily advance while under treatment", or in which there was any evidence at all of improvement. Of these nine only four manifested any decided improvement, which, however, is not known to have been permanent. ToULMiN, A. — On the importance of the Skin in the pathology and treat- ment of Tubercular Consumption. Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. Toulmin regards the breathing of impure air, especially during the night, as the chief cause of tuberculous deposit. He advises in the way of treatment—(i) that by the aid of the hot-air bath all the functions of the skin be kept in healthy action; (2) that the whole surface of the body be anointed daily with some oily matter; (3) that a local ulcera- tion on some part of the surface be kept always patent by means of an issue or seton ; (4) the " ringing the changes " on cod-liver oil. Pot. lod , mineral acids, tar, creasote, and naplitha, iodine and chlorine, iron, arsenic, and quinine, and, indeed, the class of antiseptic medicines generally, all of them admirable adjuvants in improving the general health (if selected in conformity with the functions most sympathising with and reacting on the disease), but powerless in arresting the specific lesion in question ■without the previous "open sesame" of the hot-air bath, followed by the aspersion of cold or tepid M ater. Hannon.—Caoutchouc in Phthisis. La Presse Med. Beige, Jan. 2 7tli. Brit. Med. Journ., March i6th. Hannon states a solution of caoutchouc in turpentine eases the cough, diminishes the expectoration and dyspnoea, checks the fever, night sweats, and diarrhoea, and causes the patient to gain flesh. Maisch and Hanbury.—On Anacahuite Wood, a reputed remedy in Con- sumption. Amer. Journ. of Pharmac., March, i86r. London Pharmac. Journ., Feb., 1861. This wood is imported from Tampico, in Mexico, and has been used with much advantage in Beriin. From 5vij—5viij of the wood are boiled in twelve ounces of water down to five ounces, and this is taken from twice to four times daily, combined with other remedies. Treatment of Phthisis by Chlorate of Potash. Amer. Med. Monthly, Sept., i860. Ed. Med. Journ., Jan., i8<5i.