UEPORT ON SUEGERY. 286 Pope, C. A.—Complete Osseous Anchylosis of ihc Knec joinl; success- fully operated on hj Barton's method. St. Louis Med. and Surg. Joiiru., May, 1861. Anier. Jouru. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 298. The limb was permaueutly flexed at a right angle. A wedge of bone was cut out of the anchylosed knee, in order to straighten it. "Williams.—Cases of Excisions of Joints performed in the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. Med. Ti'ires and Ga'z., June ist, p. 1577. Two cases of excision of the knee, in the second of which ampu- tation was subsequently performed; and one of the elbow, wliere am- putation was done on the thirty-fifth day after excision. BLOOD-VESSELS. Operative Means for the Arrest of Hcemorrhaye. Ligature of Arteries. HiJTCHiNSOK.—Statistical Report of Licjahire of Arteries in Provincial Hospitals, i860. Med. Times and Gaz., April 27th, p. 445. FouCHEE.—Five cases in tvhich Aciqyressure was employed for the arrest of hwmorrhage. Bull, de I'Acad., xxv, p. 1085, Sept., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., a-oI, 109, No. 8, p. 73. Two of these were amputations of the leg, one of the thigh, and the other two injuries of the radial and temporal arteries. Beck, Dr. B.—Case of arrest of Hccmorrhaxje from a Vein hy deligation of the corresponding artery. Deutsche Klin., 48, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 79. Beck tied the posterior tibial artery in the lower third of the leg to atop venous ha5uiorrhage in Chopart's amputation. A good recovery took place. Nelatox.—Venous Hcemorrhage, treated hy introducing a cylinder of agaric, soaked in perchloride of iron, into the tube of the vein. Journ. de Med. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Nov., nth part, p. 499, art. 6118. An account of a very remarkable case of thrombus in the neck from spontaneous rupture of the internal jugular vein, occurring during scarlatina. The swelling was opened to relieve the extreme dyspnoja produced by its pressure on the air-passages, under the supposition that it was an abscess. The haemorrhage which foUowed was so copious that tlie incision was prolonged in order to bring into view its source, which was found to be an oval opening in the internal jugular vein. This Nekton plugged with the agaric cylinder, and the bleeding did not return. Aneurisms of the Innominate, Sulclavian and Carotid Arteries. Broadbent, J.—Report of a case of Aneurism of the Arieria Inno- minata, in which the carotid artery teas tied; death fifteen weeks afterwards. Lancet, April 13th, p. 35^.