UKPOUT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 50 the duration of nil actions in Jimilcd; and after one hour and a lialf the force of the heart suhsidcH; in less than an hour the sensation of heat diminishes; after several hours, the skin regains its normal degree of action; and after one or more days, the normal excretion by the kidneys and bowels is re-established. 13. We need not refer to the action of alcohol in lessening con- sciousness, the perception of light and sound, ajid tlie diminution of muscular power ; for when a full ordinary dose is taken, they may be perceived in every half-drunken man ; and Smitli has already minutely described the period of this occurrence in experiments upon himself and others. In less doses, these effects are either less evident or they are not at all perceptible ; but in whatever dose, the direction of the action of the alcohol must be the same. It is impossible that a small dose of alcohol shall direc/li/ increase muscular power, for example, whilst a larger yet au ordinary dose decreases it; and if men half drunk have sometimes exerted unusual strength, it has been from the same cause as is seen iu the efforts of a madman, not from increase of muscular power, but from increase of the effort of the will. LiTELin-G, E.—0« flte Phijsiologiccd and Thcrajjeutical Action of Al- cohol. Brit. Med. Journ., p. 157. In a pa])er read before the Jvinior Medical Society of London, the author said that the action of alcohol cannot be regarded as essentially different in health and disease, and that its therapeutic effects can be best explained by the consideration of its physiological action. He thinks tlie substance is eliuiinated from the body unchanged, and that it acts by diminishing the excretion of solids. The effects of alcohol in acute disease, he'thinks, are of two kinds, viz., injurious or beneficial, as re- gards the natm-al progress of the case. Among the former are placed the following:—(i) its tendency to prevent the excretion of morbid poisons ; (2) the hindrance it offers to the aeration of the blood; (3) the impediment to general nutrition; (4) its directly injurious effects on mucous membranes. Among the class t>f beneficial effects were enumerated—(i) the increase iu^power and diminution in tlie rapidity of the heart's action; (2) the dinmmtion in the waste of the tissues of the body; (3) the not uufrequent sedative effect of alcohol on the nervous system, promoting sleep. HooPEE, Di-.—The Alcohol Question. Lancet, May, 25th, p. 507. The author thinks that, in estimating the value of alcohol, the expe- rience and testimony of healthy persons who use it habitually and in moderation, ought to be taken into account; also the fact that in all_ ages, and in every corner of the globe, man has discovered a method of preparing it. There are persons who do very well without alcohol, but this'^is no proof that it is useless to others. There are countrv districts Avhere the labourers are healthy and strong without meat, and with beer almost as weak as water ; but does it follow that the same fare would suit the London lawyer, barrister, judge, or member of Parliament ? A\^c all find, says 'the author, Avheu on our tours in Switzerland or the Highlands, where we enjoy pure air, good food, rest and recreation of brain, when, in short, we arc living rather au