190 RFPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. NiEMEYER, V.—Report on Internal Aneurisms. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 237. The general results of 49 cases which Niemeyer details are as follows:—In 2 cases the heart itself was affected ; in one the ascending, transverpe, and descending aorta all together ; in 13 the ascending aorta, including some- times the arch, in 14 the arch of the aorta, in 3 the arteria iunominata, in one the right subclavian, in five the thoracic aorta, in 6 the abdominal aorta, in a the mesenteric artery, in one the internal carotid, in one the left middle cerebral. Two of the cases of the third set were dissecting aneurisms. In 41 cases 35 were males, 6 females. The youngest patient was aged nineteen, the oldest eighty-four. Between the ages of nineteen and thirty years there were 5 cases, between thirty and forty there were 15, between forty and fifty 8, between fifty and sixty there were 9, between sixty and eighty-four only 4. The disease seems to be most prevalent in England, as 37 of the cases are credited to us. The duration is very various, from above twenty years to fourteen days. From 36 cases of thoracic aneurism, the following are the principal deductions. In 18 cases there was visible tumour, ten times at the stei-nal notch or at its side, eight times at the anterior tlioracic wall. In 2 cases there was pulsation without tumour. A peculiar thrill was observed four times. Murmurs, not of cardiac origin, were heard seven times ; once the murmur could only be heard in a certain position of the body. In 5 cases there was disease of the heart of the left ventricle as well as aneurism. Ine- quality of the radial pulse was observed six times, four times the right was absent or weakened, twice the left. Haemoptysis prior to the fatal issue occured in 4 cases, in one of these from pulmonary tuberculosis. More or less marked paralysis was observed in six instances, always on the right, and once in both upper extrenjiities. In a cases there were also similar nervous symptoms on the right side of the head. In 8 cases of abdominal aneurism permanent, violent pain, vomiting, and dulness, were constant symptoms. Tumour was discovered only four times, and in one of these it had another origin. Pulsation was absent three times, and mui-mur six. The locality of the pain in individual cases varied much. Once a sternal neuralgia was the prominent feature, once a quasi-sciatica. Wade, W. F.—On a Case of Aortic Aneurism, in which a communication with the Pulmonary Artery was recognised during life by means of Physical Diagnosis. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. In Wade's case two loud murmurs were heard in place of the usual sounds over the cartilage of the left fourth rib, that with the second sound being of a hissing character, and so prolonged as to continue till the commencement of the next ventricular systole. The second murmur was attended with a very considerable purring tremor. The first murmur was of loud bellows character. Both murmurs were audible high in the neck, in the back, and over all the upper part of the chest. At the apex of the heart there was only a single murmur with the cardiac first sound, the second sound was very distinct and quite natural. At the autopsy an aneurism was found springing from tlie origin of tlie aorta, and commu- nicating with the pulmonary artery by a vertical slit, with regular margin and smooth edges, and with the right ventricle by another opening with ragged thin margins. Valves healtiiv. Wade's diagnosis was based on