ilEPORT ON WID-WIFEIIY, ETC. BoucilUT.— On (he treatment of Croup hy large and rapidly succeedinrj doses of Turlar-emeiic. Journ. f. Kiud., May and June, 1861, ^.P- 435- Five cases are related sliowing the efficacy of tlie metliod in the second and even in the tliird stages of the disease. Tlie object is to procure methodically and as quickly as possible an emetic effect. If the emetic effect is not produced, it must not be continued. A three-ounce mixture is prepared, containing four to eight grains of tartar emetic, a little syrup and mucilage; of this a teaspoonful to be given hourly. This treatment is to be continued several days till all trace of the disease is gone. Watson, Dr. (Edinburgh.)—Case of Tracheotomy in Croup. Ed. Med. Journ., Jan., 1861, p. 678. Mautini.—On Tracheotomy. Schmidt, vol. m, p. 203. This is an essay containing a very full and complete analysis and ac- count of the more recent writings and works on the subject of tracheotomy, especially in cases of croup. RoElilG.— On the relation between Croup and other diseases of the Res- piratory Organs in Children. Yogel and Nasse's Arch., 1861, vol. 6, This essay contains in a statistical form an account of the cases of croup and other respiratory organs in children during the eight years i8';3 to i860, in Waldeck. Pasquali.—On Croup in Infants and Youny Children. Ann. Univ. di Med., June to Dec, 1861. On Biphtheriamn general, and especially on the treatment of Diphtheritic Angina and Croup by Iodine and Bromine. Journ. f. Kind., Sep. and Oct., 1861, p. 211. Hervieux.—Researches on Infantile Pulmonary Emphysema. Arch. Gen., June and July, 1861, p. 673 and 48. ' These observations are based on thirty-seven cases, nineteen of which were infants under twenty days, the rest under the age of three years. The account of these cases is given at some length, together with the con- clusions resulting from the enquiry. The most habitual complications were, progressive algidity, icterus neonatorum, measles, tubercular dia- thesis, erysipelas, rachitis, syphilis. SiiELTON, Dr.—Treatment of Whooping-cough. Am. Med. Times, July 20th, 1861. The combination of belladonna and sulphate of zinc was found very efficacious by the author. WooDWAKD, Dr.—Hooping-cough, its Pathology and Treatment. Dub. Med. Press, June 19th, 1861, from Phil. Med. and Surg. Rep. A combination of cofice, peat-oil, and conium, with tinct. verat. virid. the whole made into a syrup, was found to arrest and cure the cough in 8—io*days. Laeonde, Ch.—Account of an Epidemic of Hooping-cough. L'Union 61, 1860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 319.