OPHTHALMIC SUEGEUY. 323 Ointments, belladonna. March asrd, p. 3oo.-Vapours, stimulating liniments, ointments and pomades, salves. The Orbit. Si-ME.-to ofFuUating Tumour of the OrUt cured hj ligature of the common Carotid Artery; with remarks. Edm. Med. Journ., June, p. 1065. Perhaps a diffuse aneurism. AVyatt J.— Cystic Tumour of the Orbit connected with disease of the Orbital Flate oftlie Frontal Bone, communicating with the Fro7ital Sinus. Med. Times and G-az., March i6th, p. 275. The Eyelids. Hessee, Akt.—On oi^erations for Trichiasis in Chronic Conjunctivitis with contraction. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 38, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 109, No. 4, p. 80. In JjEger's clinic, where Hesser is junior surgeon, it is an accepted principle°not to operate for the entropion, because the result of this is not lasting, but to excise the eyelashes with their bulbs. Davschee, Herm.—A case of Cysto-sarcoma of the Upper Fyelid. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 30, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 331- Debeow.—Froceeding for the prevention of Ectropion after Malignant Fustule. Gaz. des Hop., 133, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, Nov. 7th, p. 81. This consists in stitching the edges of the eyelids to each other and keeping them united during the cicatrization of the wound left by the detachment of the eschar. SiCHEL, J.—On Sarcomatous Ectropiimi. Bull, de Ther., Iviii, p. 533, June, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 331. According to Sichel, besides the common form, in which the whole palpebral conjunctiva is thickened, there is another, essentially distinct. This is caused by an exudation under the epithelium into the tissue of the conjunctiva, and is due to chronic inflammation. It forms a more or less prominent, hard, dark-red fold, which occupies the whole length of the lower eyelid, or is limited to a portion of it. By its weight it t pushes the lid outwards. Excision effects a radical cure. WiLLLurs, J.—A new and effectual Cure for Entropion and Trichiasis. Dublin Hosp. G-az., January 15th, p. 18. This consists in puncturing the edge of the eyelid, to the depth of one eighth of an inch, along the course of the faulty hair, with a fine needle or small knife dipped in liquid caustic potash. The pain is ■fling, and may be instantly removed by brushing the lid with cold ater. The lashes are to be removed on the second or third day with a