heport on forensic medicine. is devotcf] to the decomposition of the ovum in iitero, and the changes prod need by putrefuction in the body of the new-born child, asaflfected by the conditions of moisture and tcmpernture to which it lias been exposed. Tile second part discusses tlie post-mortem appearances observed in tlic new-born child with reference to the proof of live-birth. As regards the king-test, the author still maintains that buoyant lungs must have breathed after birth, and that no previous respiratory movement is capable of pro- ducing inflation with air. He holds that lungs that have been inflated artificially may always be distinguished ; their anterior surface being of a bright, vermilion colour, comparatively bloodless, and without marbling, and often exhibiting extravasations of air produced by the violence of the inflation ; the inflated condition of the stomach and intestines affords further evidence. As regards injuries to the foetus consequent on violence done to the mother, the author infers from the thirty-one cases extant that such ■violence may lead to fractures, particularly of the long bones, but that no instance is known of intra-nteriue fracture of the cranium so produced, and that such accidents are not possible before the fifth month. The injuries and dangers to which the child is liable during birth are next considered in their medico-legal relations, particularly fractures of the cranial bones (which are discussed as to their anatomical characters and causes), and compression or twisting of the cord. The concluding pages relate to the injuries and dangers arising in cases of precipitate delivery, from falls, &c., and other accidents immediately after birth. Groll.—Evidence and ojnnion in a case of concealment of Pregnancy and Birth, and consequent Child Murder. Henke, part i, p. 193. An unmarried workwoman, residing in a very retired village, was accused of the murder of an infant, found partly concealed in her room. On examination of the accused, the signs of recent delivery were ob- served. The body was found to be that of a mature, well-developed male infant, which had lived and breathed after births The following lesions existed, viz., fracture or injury of both maxillary, the nasal and palate bones, and the frontal bone, and dislocation of the cranial bones, which floated loose in the brain, all of which injuries showed that the head had been subjected to forcible pressure against some Hat body. From the appearances in general, the author concluded that the accused had pressed the face and front of the head against the stone floor, by which, not only the injuries above referred to had been produced, but breathing had been prevented, and that she had neglected to secure the cord. She was con- victed on the medical evidence, and sentenced to penal imprisonment for fifteen years. HoFMANN.—Medico-legal Opinions. No. III. Accusation of Child-Murder. Loc. cit., p. 135. The body of a newly born and mature infant was found in a privy. An unmarried sempstress, who was employed at the time in the house in which the corpus delicti was discovered, was suspected of being tlie mother and murderer. On examination of the accused, ail the signs of recent delivery were observed by Dr. Ilofmann. From appearances on dissection of the infant, he concliided that it was recently born and mature,