59 FOOD; MEDICIXE, AND POISON. of tobacco, of grapes, of viue-leaA-es, of grain of every description, of the milk of animals wbich had been fed upon grain, &e. Lithia bas also been discovered in the ashes of the human blood and muscles. A very large quantity of it was found in tAvo of the thermal springs of Baden-Baden, namely, the Tettquelle and the Murquelle, of which tbe former contains o"3,3i5 graiiis of chloride of lithia in sixteen ounces of Avater, and the latter 2-3649 grains of it. In one htindred pounds of tiie salt extracted from the Murquelle nine and three quarter pounds of lithia are contained. This amount is not equalled by that contained in any other mineral spring Avhicb has yet been examined. In speaking of the physiological effects of these waters, Althaus re- marks, that at first they promote digestion, and a feeling of well-being is induced; but after they have been taken for some time, and espe- cially when in large doses, siclmess, disposition to vomiting, and diar- rhoea ensue, which in most cases, however, gradually disappear, but sometimes continue as long as the water is drunk. A constant effect is an increased elimination of urine, the quantity of which is often doubled or even trebled; it becomes turbid after some time, and large quantities of a reddish sediment are deposited in it. In some of the patients treated by Dr. E,uef profuse perspiration came on after from five to ten days, and continued as long as the water was drunk ; in the case of a lady who had not freely perspired for years, this perspiration even continued two months after the course had been finished. It therefore appears that the water is a diuretic as well as a diapboretic. Armand, Dr.—The Boot of Qinseng. Med. Times and Graz., May 4th, The Paris correspondent of the above journal states that this root is, as a remedy, so highly esteemed in China, that it is almost valued at its weight in gold. The plant grows in Tartary, and when broken, the root has a semi-transparent appearance. It is light and without smell, and tastes lilce liquorice-root, first sweet, and afterwards rather bitter. "When iised, it is cut into very small pieces, and boiled in a water bath. The decoction of one drachm to half an ounce is taken every morning before breakfast, for from three to eight days together, and sometimes it is also taken in the evening before going to bed. I^o change is made in the diet or the general habits of tbe patient, with the exception that tea is forbidden for, at least, a month, as by its use the beneficial effect of the ginseng would be counterbalanced. This would lead to the supposition that the ginseng restores the digestive functions which have been weakened by the immoderate use of tea. It is chiefly used by Aveakened men and youths, and it, therefore, seems to be an exciting and probably aphrodisiac remedy. Dtbkowskt and Pelikan.—Ph/siolocjical Researches on the Action of different Cardiac Poisons. Compt. Eend., Aug. 26tb, 1861, p. 384. The poisons employed were antiar, tanghinia, digitalis, and green hellebore, and the results obtained were— I. The movement of the frog's heart is arrested, while the rest of the body is unaffected, and the animal still capable of voluntary move- ments.