413 INORGANIC SUBSTANCES. parts and diminution of the wound, accelerates suppuration, favours the rapid separation of the slough, and determines the formation of a healthy granulating surface. From the regular and symmetrical action of the caustic the resulting cicatrix is satisfactory. The pain is severe, but of short duration. In all the preceding respects the author has found it superior to the mineral acids, caustic potash, lunar caustic, or to the pre- parations of iodine. He has not compared it with other metallic chlo- rides. Iron. Skinner. — Ferri Carhonas Effervescens, a new and elegant form of Chalybeate. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 627. This preparation is made as follows : 9=. Acidi Tartarici, 3iij ; Sodse Bicarbonatis, ^v ; Ferri Sulphatis, 5x; Fulveris sacchari, 5ij 5vj ; Acidi Citrici, 5ij. The sulphate of iron is to be mixed with the sugar and part of the tartaric acid, and the citric acid with the remainder of the latter and with the bicarbonate of soda. The two mixtures are to be united and thoroughly incorporated by sifting. The result is then to be thrown into a metallic pan set in the water-bath and briskly agitated while hot, by which means it is caused to assume the granular form. It is administered in doses of a teaspoonful several times a day, and is found to produce a chalybeate effect with great rapidity, and to be therefore adapted for the treatment of neuralgia arising from anaemia. Owing to the soda salts developed during effervescence, the preparation is slightly aperient. Co^^er. Gallo.—Fatal case of Poisoning by Copper, Nass. Med. Jhrb., vols. XV, xvi, p. 743. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 24. A robust house painter took by mistake for brandy an ounce of a solution of copper. He immediately experienced intense abdominal pain, with vomiting and purging of green matter, which continued until on the third day the author was called in. The patient was then much emaciated, and the complexion was leaden; there were extreme muscular weakness, a foul and dry tongue, excessive thirst, abdominal tenderness on pressure, and abundant saHvation. On the sixth day he became jaundiced. The bowels not having been relieved, castor oil was given, which produced free evacuations containing traces of green matter. From the eighth day he became progressively weaker, and was ordered chaly- beates, arnica, valerian, ether, and beef tea. He gradually sank, and died on the sixteenth day. No autopsy. Lead. Freytag.—0« the actions of Compounds of Lead on the Human Body. M.schrftder Gewerbevereins zu Coin. Jiinner, i860. Canst, vol. vii" ■ p. 11. • » Freytag and Richter found that in certain cases of poisoning, in which