314 JIEPORT ON SUROEHY. fibro-cellular kind. The immense wound was covered and filled with wheat-bran, Avhich was renewed when it became soaked with pus. 'NOTTX.—Fimffm of the Sheaths of the Tendons of the M. Adducto)- Longus and jExtensw Pollicis Brevis. G-az. des Hop., 134, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 8, p. 195. A fibro-ccIlular tumour. Vix, Dr. E.—Occurrence of MuUijjle Sarcoma, and their hearinr/ on the Intestinal Wall Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts I and 2, p. 103. BiEKETT, J.—Contrihutions to the Practical Surgery of Kew Growths or Ttmours. Series IV. Cysts (continued). Guy's Hosp. Eep., p. 332. Practical remarks on cases of cysts in the glandular and non-glandular organs. Hewett, p.—Eemoval of Sebaceous Tumours from the Scalp,-followed by diffuse cellular inflammation, erysipelas of the face, and diphthe- ritic inflammation of the pharynx ; fatal result. Lancet, Feb. 9th, P- 1.36. Jacksok, a. E.—Hydrocele of the Necic, and its treatment by Excision, loith two cases. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., p. loi. The author regards it as an established fact, that these watery cysts are formed by an expansion of the natural spaces of the .areolar tissue, and by the retention within them of an excess of the fluid which they normally contain. He describes their structure, progress, and develop- ment, the symptoms, etiology, diagnosis, and prognosis. He discards tapping, in consequence of the danger of serous infiltration of the cellular tissue which attends it. Mild injections produce no effect on the walls of an old cyst, and very stimulating ones cause alarming spasm. The seton ranks next to excision, Aviiich the author considers the best mode of treatment. Betant.—Cyst in the Thyroid Gland cured hy tlie Injection of Tincture of Iodine. Lancet, Feb. 9th, p. 137. MoCbaith, J.—Melanotic ? Encysted Tumour simulating Bronchocele. Med. Times and G-az., Dec. 7th, p. ^77. M'Whinnie, a. M.—Observations on Bronchocele, and notes relating to the surgical anatomy of the Laryn^v and Trachea. Lancet, July 13th, p. 30; Aug. 3rd, p. 107. Hawkes, J.—On Enlargement of the Thyroid Gland, with Proptosis, Lancet, Aug. loth, p. 130. Hawkes traces these associated morbid conditions to a derangement of the ganglionic nervous, and vascular systems. CoTJLON.—Tumour in the region of the Coccyx. Gaz. Heb., ^aii, 3, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 11, p. 199. A congenital cyst attached to the tip of the coccyx, but not commu- nicating with the spinal canal