EEPOE.T ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. (2) The internal circumflex sprang separately from the femoral artery in 41 limbs. And here the proi'unda generally arose lower down than in the former instances. (3) The external circumflex had an independent origin from the femoral in 26 extremities. (4) Both circumflex vessels sprang from a stem distinct from that bearing the perforating arteries, in 2 instances. (5) Each circumflex had a separate origin from the femoral in 7 limbs. It was found that the direction of the profunda was posterior and external to that of the femoral where there Avas an independent internal circumflex, whilst it was internal to the main artery when the separate vessel was the external circumflex. The internal circumflex generally arises from the inner arc of the profunda or femoral, though it may have an external origin; but the external artery always springs from the external periphery. LuscHKA.—The Thoracic Portion of the Inferior Vena Cava of Man. Miiller's Archiv, No. ij. Canst., vol. i, p. 102. This is a precise description of the inferior cava, and its connexions. The author remarks that—(i) The medial aspect of the lower cava receives the arched fibres around the fossa ovalis, which blend as they proceed to the vessel. (2) The left auricle is directly connected with the lower cava, by a muscular fasciculus hitherto unnoticed by anatomists, which rises thin and flat on the posterior wall of the atrium, and pierces the fibres connecting the septum with the vessel, into which it is inserted at the posterior arc of the outer coat. It is probably this belt that keeps the vein patent. In one instance it was found highlj developed. (3) The non-muscular part of the inter-auricular septum is agglutinated to the medial tongue of the tricuspid valve, and this wiU show the possibility of a morbid communication between the right auricle and the left ventricle without a breach in the wall of the right ventricle. (4) The right lung when distended, bears a slight farrow that marks the course of the iiiferior vena cava. Joseph, L.—The Physiology of the Cardiac Valves. Virchow's Archiv, vol, viii, p. 495. Canst, vol. i, p. 123. The author states that—(i) The muscular fibres in the venous valves of the heart contract at the end of the auricular systole and throw the segments into folds, while a circular elevation is formed aU round the venous opening, which at the same time slightly enlarges. (2) The semilunar valves remain during the ventricular systole at no incon- siderable distance from the walls of Valsalva's sinuses. Malheube, Dr.— Considerations on the Action of the Atiriculo-ventriailar Valves, and the Bruits of the Heart. Journ. de la Physiol. Ed. Med. Journ., April, p. 949. The following arc the conclusions the author has arrived at:—(i) The action of the auriculo-ventricular valves essentially difl'ers from that of the sigmoid valves, and can in no respect be compared to them. (2) The occlusion of the auriculo-ventricular valves taices place by a sort of puckering (froncemcnt), in which one cannot find the conditions