188 REPORT ON I'UACI'K AIEUK INK suddenly sujiervening pnrnlysis and an absence of symptoms of spinal or cerebral disease. The aU'ection is almost always fatal. Treatment is use- less. Embolia of the cerebral arteries has often been observed. If the arteries proximal to the circle of Willis are plugged, tbc circulation is soon restored by means of the anastomoses, but if the distal ones are affected the results are permanent. The ansemiated part of the brain mortifies, while in its vicinity, owing to increased force of the blood-cur- rent, inflammatory exudation (red softening) or serous effusion (white softening) takes place. These three conditions often concur, a necrotic, yellow patch of softening being surrounded by an inflamed, red area, and this again sepai'ated by cjcdematous brain from the healthy structure. In embolia of the carotid the symptoms are loss of consciousness and hemi- plegia, often preceded by general convulsions. These symptoms soon disappear as the supply of blood is restored. When, on the other hand, the more peripheral arteries are affected, graver symptoms occur. The patients mostly drop down unconscious, as if struck with apoplexy, and hemiplegia and death may ensue immediately, or (after the return of con- sciousness) blindness, deafness, or loss of speech remain, or most violent eclamptic and maniacal attacks set in, succeeded at a later period by mo- notonous delirium. Complete recovery, even after the establishment of a collateral circulation, rarely ensues ; generally, phenomena of encephalitis supervene, which may prove fatal. A partial recovery (a cyst or a cicatrix having been formed) is usually attended with a pecuhar uninteUigible articulation. Pigmentary embolia, affecting almost exclusively the ca- pillaries of the gray matter, impaii's the mental functions much more than the locomotive. If the pigmentary flakes accumulate rapidly, death mostly ensues with typhoid phenomena or in the form of icterus gravis, and the gray substance is found covered over with numerous minute, bloody effusions (apoplexia disseminata), each of which contains in its middle a flake of pigment. In chronic cases there is rather a gradual impairment of the intellectual functions, or the jrtugging of the capillaries remains quite latent, until an occasional attack of congestion leads to escape of blood. The diagnosis of cerebral embolia is difficult, especially in aged individuals. The prognosis is unfavorable. The treatment is that of cerebral haemorrhage at the commencement, subsequently of en- cephalitis. Forty cases, with remarks, are added, which may be perused with much advantage. A table is also given of the principal circumstances observed in thirty-two cases of cerebral embolia. Sibley, S. W.—Cases illustrating the Causes and Effects of Fibrinoxis Obstructions in the Arteries, both of the Brain and of other organs. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. Sibley divides his cases into four groups—in (i) there are eleven cases, in which a plug in one of the cerebral arteries has been found associated with disease of the brain or hemiplegia; in (2) are placed three incomplete cases, in which softening of the brain has been found associated with warty growths on the valves of the heart, but in which the state of the cerebral arteries was not ascertained; in (3) are two instances of cicatrix of the brain ; in (4) are twelve examples of fibrinous deposits in the in- ternal organs without brain affection. Sibley argues against the view that