410 REPOKT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA, tained from looo matclies. Her condition was as follows:—The skin was pale and cool, the lips were reddened, the tongue coated, the epigas- trium tender on pressure and somewhat hard, and the helly tympanitic but painless ; respirations forty per minute, interrupted by attacks cf dyspnoea; pulse frequent, almost imperceptible. The patient complained of constant shivering, and vomited frequently ; the vomited matter and the breath smelt strongly of phosphorus, and the former was luminous in the dark. No urine was passed, either by the catheter or naturally. The vomiting was somewhat alleviated by the exhibition of magnesia and opiates, but death took place about thirty hours after the last dose of the poison. It was preceded by cessation of pain, cold and clammy sweats, difficult and noisy respiration, and delirium, which assumed a markedly erotic character. The principal facts brought to light by the examination of the body (eighty hours after death) were the following :—There was no sign of inflammatory action in any part of the alimentary canal, excepting the ileum, the mucous membrane of which was red and congested ; the blood was completely fluid ; the liver was of firm consistence, and exhibited "advanced fatty infiltration, with yellow colouring of the centres of the acini." On opening the abdomen there was a strong smell of phosphorus. Ogston.—Poisoning by Lucifer Matches. Poisoning by "Phosphor paste." Brit, and For. Med.-Chir.Eev., Oct., p. 490. Poisoning by Phosphorus, Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 293. Iodine. Orth.—Case of Poisoning by Iodide of Potassium. Nass. Med. Jhrb., vols. XV, xvi, p. 747. A man, ret. 38, who had suflered for eighteen months from lumbago, took, at the recommendation of an unprofessional person, four doses of nine grains each of iodide of potassium, dissolved in water. After the third dose the patient began to feel unwell; three hours later his symptoms were as follows :—Heat of head, swelling of the face, particu- larly of the eyelids, and of the submaxillary region, injection of the con- junctivse, great restlessness, buzzing and ringing in the head, intense headache, flow of mucus and saliva from the mouth, without alteration of the gums or mucous membrane, and retching; The symptoms declined after twelve hours, and convalescence was estabhshed in two days. The patient was previously in good general health ; there were no signs what- ever of gastric irritation. The case is remarkable from the severity of the symptoms produced by so small a dose. FoNSSAGiuvES.—^cM^e Poisoning by Iodine. L'Union Med., No. 7, i860. Canst., vol. v, p. 103. _ • • x j Tincture of iodine diluted with an equal quantity of water was injected into the tunica vaginalis of a man Euff"ering from traumatic inflammation of that membrane, with eflusion. Two hours after the injection the tumour was double its former size, and fever declared itself with an intensity which was out of all relation with the local inflammation. On the following day there was excessive bronchial irritation, sneezing, redness of the eyes and fauces, furred tongue, salivation, dysphagia, and oedema of the glottis.