KKPOUT ON rORENSlC MEDICINE. 44.6 Maschka.—Reports of the following cases of Injury of the Head. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi. No. 33. Injury followed by symptoms of epilepsy; no appreciable relation between tlie injury, wliicii was slight, and its result. No. 34. Pretended loss of consciousness, followed by impairment of health ; no apparent connection between the injury and its consequences. No. 44. Injury of the head in a man of seventy, in bad health; symptoms of con- cussion, followed by death. Maschka.—Medico-legal Contrihutions. Casper, vol. xviii, part i. Case of injury of the head ; subsequent exposure to cold; diflerence of opinion among the medical attendants. HoFMANN. Practice of Legal Medicine. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xvi, part 2. Case I. Fatal injury of the head ; fracture, with depression of the right parietal bone, and considerable extravasation in the interior of the cranium. Case a. Fatal injury of the head ; fracture of the right parietal bone, with extravasation. Case 3. Injury of the head ; separation of the cartilage of the pinna, &c. Doll.—On the loss of Teeth, in its medico-legal relations. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, No. 5. ScHUMACHEii.—On the JmocMng-in of the Teeth, in a medico-legal point of view; reply to the above. Wien. Med. Woch. Schrft., i860, Nos. 12, 17. KoMEE.—On the discrimination of Bodily Injuries. Friedreich, vol. xi, part I. Wtstrand.—On the medico-legal discrimination of Bodily Injuries in Intoxicated Persons. Henke, vol. xl, part 3. Transactions of the Medical Faculty of Vienna.—On fatal Bodily Injuries. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, No. 19. Transactions of the Medical Faculty of Vienna.—Case of Injuries of the lohole Body, particidarly of the Head; death in consequence of these injuries and of cerebral concussion. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, No. 19. Pfafp.—Medico-legal Reports, 1858-59.—Numerous fatal injiiries in- flicted on four persons by a hatchet. Henke, vol. xl, part 2. ■ Zencker.—Co7itributions to the medico-legal knowledge of Injuries of the Head. Henke, vol. xl, part 3. HoFMANN.—Injury of the Head inflicted with an Axe; recovery. Pene- trating ivound of the lungs, followed by recovery. Injury of the head ; stamping on the abdomen during menstruation ; consequent arrest of the catamenia, with symptoms of pyrexia. Henke, vol. xl, parts 3 and 4. Pfaff.—Introduction to the practice of medico-legal researches on the Blood, based on original observations, and brought down to the present state of forensic medicine. Plauen, i860. Canst., vol. vii, p. 9. The author has investigated experimentally the various methods of examining blood-stains recommended by previous observers. He has described the mode of discriminating blood-corpuscles under the micro- scope, and the changes of form and appearance produced by water, alcohol, acetic and hydrochloric acids, iodide of potassium, solutions of arseuious acid, corrosive sublimate, and other reagents, He also describes n