FOOD^ MEDICINE^ AXI) POISON. 51 cUorine into the blood. He thinks we can greatly diminisli tlie danger in employing this agent by mixing it with a large proportion of pure ether—at least, three fourths of its bulk. We tlius not only dilute the dangerous with a safe anajsthetic agent, but we overcome the deadly depressing influence of the chloroform by the stimulating effects of the ether. BnowiT, Dr. BEDrOBD.—Ilffect of Chloroform on Cerehral Circulation. Amer. Joura. of Med. Sc., Oct., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th. Compound fracture of the frontal bone occurred in a boy aged ten, with laceration of cerebral substance and free hfemorrhage. Chloroform was administered to facilitate the removal of the depressed portions of bone. When full aucesthesia was produced, the brain-pulsations diminished, the cerebral surface receded, the bsemorrhage ceased, and vascularity diminished in a ratio corresponding to the diminution of consciousness. Mabcet, Dr. (Westminster Hospital).—0« Death from Chloroform. Med. Times and Gaz., July 20th, p. 56. The author makes the following physiological remarks on chloroform, When inhaled, and consequently broiight into contact with the air-cells of the lungs, it passes rapidly into the blood, by means of which it ia carried to the brain. If the administration of the anfesthetic agent be suspended, the chloroform will be eliminated from the body by the re- spiration, each inspiration displacing most of the vapour contained in the blood exposed by the lungs to the action of air during that inspi- ration. The elimination from the blood of any very volatile substance possessed of a stable chemical composition may be considered, as a rule, to take place through the lungs. If the air inspired be pui'e, the displacement of chloroform from the blood in the lungs will be very great; if this air should contain chloroform the displacement will be less, just as when ail* containing a large proportion of carbonic acid is breathed, the removal of the carbonic acid of the blood is checlced. When a patient begins to inhale chloroform, a portion is absorbed by the blood, the remaining is expired ; but shortly after- wards, in addition to the expiration of that part of the chloroform which has not been taken up by the blood, a certain quantity of that which has been absorbed is also ejected, being displaced by the air mixed with the chlorofonu inhaled. At this stage, however, there is still an accumulation of the aufesthetic agent in the blood, more being taken into the circulation than given out; gradually complete insensi- bility is produced, and the handkerchief is removed from before the face of the patient; he now begins ridding himself rapidly of the chlo- roform, and recovers consciousness, unless more of the anaesthetic agent be exhibited. Marcet has come to the conclusion—(i) That chloroibi'm must be administered cautiously, and its effects watched with particular attention, if, although the vapoiu' be freely inhaled, the patient does not become insensible within the usual time, (a) That in every case where chloroform is administered, as soon as the state of insensibility is obtained the vapour must be exhibited diluted as much as possible with-pure air; and air free from the ansesthetic agent ought to be