HEPOUT on MIDWIFETlYj ETC. 852 subject are not consonant witli sound principles. The object of the practitioner sbould not be simply the preservation of the structures of both mother and child, but the prevention of fever and infliimmation. The timely use of the forceps would often prevent the latter accidents. • To prove the latter point the author adduces the statistics of the Dublin Lying-in Hospital during periods when tiie practice as regards the fre- quent use of the forceps differed, and afforded grounds for compa- rison. Hewitt, Dr. Gr.^ily.—On unusual Elongation of the Fcetal Head as a cause of difficulty in the application of the ordinary Obstetric Forceps; ivith description of a modified form of instrument to he used in such cases. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The difliculty alluded to is liable to arise in the application of the forceps ordinarily used in British midwifery in cases where the head, having been forced through unusually narrow or unyielding passages, thereby assumes a very elongated form. A case is related in which the author found it impossible, under these circumstances, to apply the forceps most commonly in use in this country. The head measured six inches in the occipito-mental diameter half an hour after birth. The author proceeds then to show—(1) that such elongation of the bead is to be expected to occur in a certain proportion of cases ; and (2) that when it is present there must be—owing to the shape of the curve of the side of such a head — a difficulty in applying any forceps the blade of which measures less than eight inches in a straight line from one exti-emity of the curve of the blade to the other. It is pointed out that the measurement of the blades most in use in this country varies from a maximum of seven inches to five and a half inches, or even less. The instrument actually used in the case related measured seven inches. ' The author urges the recognition of a new principle — the necessity of adapting the shape of the curve of the blade to the varying shape of the curve of the side of the head. This principle had not yet been laid down by obstetric authorities. In this country it was cus- tomary to speak of a "long" and of a "short" forceps. The modi- fication so expressed referred, however, only to the length of the handles and to the position of the head in the parturient canal; the length of the blade itself was the same both in the "long" and "short" forceps. The author exhibited an instrument, straight, measuring eight inches between the extremities of the curve of the blades, the curve of which was that of a circle of fourteen inches in diameter. This instrument is adapted for use in cases of undue elongation of the head, and will be found most serviceable in the long, tedious labours of primiparse. So far as the measurement of the curve is concerned, the new instrument nearly resembles Levret's forceps. REMOVAL OF PLACENTA. Ckede.—0/i the best method of Bemoving the Placenta. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1861, p. 274.