461 MEDICAL METEOKOLOGY. ScnuiD.—Text Book of Meteorology. With an atlas of twenty-one plntes. Leipsic, i860. Schmidt, vol. 111, p. 115. The treatise of Schmid includes the whole physics of the atmosphere, with the exception of atmospheric electricity and the facts relating to meteors. It is divided into four parts, of whicli the first relates to the measurement and distribution of temperature, the sources of heat, the periodical and irregular variations of temperature, and their relations to climatology. The second part refers to currents, winds, and storms. The third to the circulation of water. This includes evaporation, the humidity of the atmosphere, and the various forms in which moisture is precipi- tated, such as clouds, mist, dew, rain, snow, &c., and lastly springs and streams. The fourth part treats of atmospheric pressure, its measurement and variations, and the relations which exist between the tension of the air and its temperature, moisture, and other physical conditions. The work includes very extensive tables of meteorological records, and an atlas of illustrative plates. MxmviY. —General Geographical Meteorology, being an attempt to repre- sent synoptically the meteorological phenomena of the earth in their hearing on climate. With charts and woodcuts. Heidelberg, i860. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 117. Dr. Miihry has already published two important works on the applica- tions of meteorology to geographical nosology and climatology. In his present work he ascends from applications to principles, from the observa- tion of the influence of physical and geographical agencies on the health of mankind to the investigation of the general laws of meteorological phenomena, to which he applies the term Erdmeteoration.'" These are stated in short and precise language, without much admixture of mathe- matical formulae, so that the book may be regarded as a comprehensive and popular synopsis of the laws of the weather. The author does not enter into geographical detail, giving no account of the climate of par- ticular localities or districts. The work is divided into four parts, which correspond entirely with those adopted by Schmid. To the practitioner it is of more value than the preceding work, as the author has professedly had in view throughout the application of his science to medicine. Haller.—Poptdar diseases in their dependence on the conditions of the weather. A statistical inquiry, founded upon observations made during ten years in the General Hospital at Vienna. 4to, Vienna, i860, pp. 40. The purpose of this inquiry is to determine in how far the invasions and disappearances of epidemic diseases, coincide with or depend on simultaneous changes in the state of the weather. As regards the preva- lence of diseases. Dr. Haller has obtained his information from the annual reports of the hospital. From the numbers of cases of each important disease occurring during short periods of time, he has constructed curves representing their prevalence during each year, and has compared these curves with the curves of temperature, barometric pressure, and humidity, for the same year. A glance at these curves is sufficient to show in how far any relation can be traced between the nosological and meteorological facts which they represent. The following are some of the