DISEASES OF "WOMEX. 889 battery required. The author has invented and produced a new form of battery, a single cell, in which the platinum is-so arranged as to offer a very large surface, and the heating power is very intense. The platinum roll is, on section, of a stellate form. The whole instrument is very inex- pensive, extremely portable, and most efficient. As made by the author, its cost was under twenty shillings. The new instrument will be found of value for the treatment of obstinate ulcerations and congestions of the cervix uteri, vascular growths from the os and canal of cervix, for the removal of vascular tumours of the urethra, and in the treatment of certain other conditions giving rise to intense pain and pruritus. GRiiNEVALDT, Dr.— The Gahano-caustic in Gyncecohgy. Petersb. Med. Zt., 1861. Naedelin. — Observations on the various foi'ins of Pessaries ; de- scription of a new Hysterophor. Memorabil., y, 10,1860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 311. The new pessary here described is a modification of the Kiwisch-Roser instrument. It has its fixed point on a moulded plate outside the vulva, and allows the use of injections. [To be procured of Gwinner, the maker, Stuttgart.] Combes, E.—The Elytroid, a neiv form of Pessary. Gaz. des H6p., Dec, i860, and Jan., 1861. The peculiarity of the pessary consists in its shape, which is made to resemble that of the vaginal canal. Weiss.—Improvement in the Speculum. Lancet, April 37th, i86i. The improvement consists in covering the speculum by a thin caoutchouc sheath, by which pinching of mucous membrane is avoided, and in substi- tuting for the wooden tampon a caoutchouc bag filled with water. ToBOLD.—On an Illuminating Apparatus adapted to Gynecological Pur- poses. Mon. f. Geb., July, 1861, p. 6. Spengler.—The " Colpoluter a Gynceko-balneological Listrument. Balneol. Ztg., i860, 31. Schmidt, vol. in, p. 186. This is a speculum to be used while the patient is in the bath, and by means of which the fluid obtains access to the os and cervix uteri. AtiERBACH.—The " Pharma/cophor." Preuss. Ver. Ztg., iii, 47, i86o, Schmidt, vol. 109, p. .310. Under this name the author describes an instrument by means of which injections can be retained in the vagina, and thus more efliciently applied. Simpson, Prof.—New Injecting Apparatus, Ed. Med. Journ,, Dec, 1861, p. 595. A caoutchouc tube is adapted to the mouth of a bottle, or to a tin vessel, and being placed above the patient the fluid is propelled by the action of gravitation alone. 1 26