HEl'OllT OK PllACTICAL JlEDIflNE. Saltkr, H. U.— Ou the JPatJioloyy of Asthma. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. yth, i6th. Salter, adverting to Kidd's view, shows that tlie clinical phenomena on •which the latter principally relies are all equally explicable on his own. Thus, the chest-di.stension is dependent on the demand for air, and is observed in all states of insufficient aeration of the blood. The locked- up condilion of the air naturally results from bronchial spasm. The special difficulty and prolongation of expiration depends on tiie expiratory force being mucli weakei*' than the inspiratory. Further, the following facts are opposed to Kidd's view.—(i) The bronchial muscles are not muscles of inspiration, and if they were, they would, by contracting in inspiration, obstruct the access of air. (2) The evidence we have that in asthma a partial vacuum is formed in the chest is inconsistent with the view of tetanic rigidity of the walls. (3) The kind of contraction of the respiratory muscles in asthma is not that of tonic spasm, but intermittent, regular, rhythmical, and co-ordinated. (4) The promoting eflfect of pul- monary disease as regards asthma points to the bronchial system itself, as being primarily affected. He replies to Dr. Kidd's argument in favour of the bronchial muscles being contracted in inspiration, from the greater length of the inspiratory act, that this is so because the inspiratory force has to overcome resistance, while the expiratory is unopposed. Delioux.—Bull, de Thurap., 60, Feb., 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 168. Recommends resin in chronic laryngeal and bronchial aflectious, and in granulous pharyngitis. It may be taken internally or smoked. Beau.—On Pertussis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th. Beau believes pertussis to consist in a purulent inflammation of tlic infundibulum above the glottis, and the paroxyijms of cough to be caused by drops of pus falling on the vocal cords. Laryngoscopic and post- mortem examination have verified his views. GiBB, G. D.—Ucemorrhage from the Ears in Hooping-cough; its real cause. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 26th. In four cases Gibb has met with heemorrhage of this kind, in two the bleeding came from both ears. Examination showed that laceration of the membrana tympani had occurred in all the affected ears. In four the laceration was near the margin, and in two it extended towards the middle. All healed up by adhesion, except one, which was followed by suppuration and permanent deafness of the one ear. Wright, H.—The Treatment of Hooping-covgh. Lancet, May 2 5th. Wri"ht recommends the following combination—Vini Antinionii D^xx, Tinct. Aconiti niiv, Ferri Pot. Tart. gr. viij, Aquce 5], M.—thrice in the day and twice at night. The above is the dose for an adult, (hat for a child will, of course, be less. Either ingredient is to be increased ac- cording as the inflammatory element, the muscular spasm, or the nervous impressibility predominates.