llEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. 168 Lisle.—On Spermalon-Iioea and Insanilij. Arch, Geucrales, vol. xvi. Med. Times nnd Gaz., June 8th. Lisle states that sperniatorrhcea ia a frequent cause of insanity, which, again, is constantly and rapidly cured if it have not advanced to paralysis or dementia. He demurs to the theory that insanity is primarily and essentially a cerebral disease, and says that facts prove that in this condition the brain may be only sympathetically affected from disease in another part. McCoKMAC, II.—Metanoia, a Plea for the Insane. Dublin Med. Press, March 20th. McCormac insists on the importance of moral treatment, of cultivating the faculty of self-control. The will is to be disciplined, and constant, wholesome occupation of body and mind maintained. The author does not believe that insanity depends "on the absence of phosphorus, the alteration of cerebral tissue, but in the aggravation to extremity of the inanities, follies, crazes, and shortcomings of dady life." WoRTHiNGTON, J. H.— On a form of Insanity for which the name of Congestive Mania has been proposed. Amer. Journ. of Insanity, Oct., i860. Med. Critic and Psycholog. Journ., Jan., 1861. In this disorder intellectual impairment is marked from the commence- ment, the memory being especially affected ; the ideas are confused and the language incoherent. The delusions in some cases are of a gay and magnificent, in others of a depressing and painful kind. The acuteness of perceptions is diminished, and the muscular power more or less dimi- nished. In some cases the disease commences with one or more attacks of unconsciousness. The system has a strong tendency to marasmus, from depression of the vital powers, Worthington is much inclined to believe that the disease in question and paralytic insanity are closely allied, if not identical. ' Hysteria and Hysteromania. Amer. Journ. of Insanity, Oct., i860. The author would restrict the term hysteria to a perversion of the emotional nature, with more or less impairment of the voluntary powers. By hysteromania he means a true mania, developed upon a state of hysteria, to which it bejirs the same relation that mania a potti does to habitual drunkenness. Mayo, T.—On the Moral Phenomena of Insanity and Eccentricity. Med. Crit. and Psychol. Journ., April, 1861. Mayo admits that intellectual aberration must be proved before irre- sponsibility in regard to crime can be admitted ; but he contends that moral aberration, when existing alone, should be regarded as "the early period of yet imperfect insanity," and subjected to coercion and sur- veillance. Snell.—On the Confounding of Persons as a Symptom of Insanity.' Allg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatric, vol. xvii. Snell states that this is one of the most frequent, certain, and easily detected symptoms of psychical disturbance. (2) It is proportionate to the degree and general character of the mental excitement, and it is, in