464. UEPOKT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. Parisian hospitals, and particularly the unfavorable results of operations, were attributed by tiie several speakers to the practice of surrounding the' beds with curtains, to the use of charpie, and the communication thereby of infection, to the overcrowding of the wards, to the insufficient number of nurses, to the absence of open lire-places, the foulness of the floors and furniture (as compared with the scrupulous cleanliness observed in London), and to the offensive and unhealthy latrines. Other less important details were referred to. TOPINARD.—0« the Hygiene of the London Hospitals. L'Union, vol xii, p. 517. hv.^o^T.—General considerations on the Healthiness of English Hospitals. Annales d'llyg., vol. xvii, p. 232. DISINFECTION. MuLLER.—On the Preservation of Urine. Journ. f. prakt. Chemie, vol. Ixxxi, p. 452. EiSENsxiicK.—On the same subject. Ibid., p. 482. Miiller finds that urine, in which the urea has once undergone trans- formation into carbonate of ammonia, is subject to no further putrefactive change. This transformation takes place rapidly on the addition of a ferment, the most suitable for the purpose being the mucus deposited by urine. In order to fix the ammonia, he treats the liquid thus obtained by the same method as is applied to aramoniacal liquor of gasworks. Chevalier.—On the Utilisation in Italy of the products furnished by Man as Manures. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 241. FaoNMiiLLER.—On the application of Coal-tar-gypsum. Memorab., vol. T, Oct., i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 288. The author finds that this substance has the treble advantage of being cheap and effectual, and of enhancing the value of the substances to which it is added as manures, ' OCCUPATION. Greenhow.—Report on Districts with excessive Mortality from Lung Diseases. Third Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1861, pp. 102—194. Dr. Greenhow's inquiry has demonstrated that an excessive prevalence of pulmonary diseases is associated with a great variety of conditions, which may be divided into—(a) those which may be shown to act directly as exciting causes, (i) those of which the action may be presumed to be similar, from their being frequently associated with an excessive pressure of pulmonary disease, and (c) those of which the action is matter of con- iectnre. The causes included in the first category have been investigated by Dr. Greenhow in three classes of occupations, viz.—(i) those in wliich an atmosphere is breathed "loaded with mechanical impurities, such as fine dust (grinders of cutlery, needles, and other steel articles, miners, quarry-men, stone-masons, china scourers, potters, turners of earthenware, makers of plaster-of-Paris moulds) or particles of flax, cotton or woollen