SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 231 Majei- states tlint arsenic always appears in the urine, from six to twelve hours after a dose, and disappears in four to six days after leaving off the remedy. The quantity excreted amounts to about two thirds of that taken. V. Barensprung.—0?i Area Celsi. Aunalen de Charite, viii, 3- Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 153- • 1 u \ Von Barensprung distinguishes calvities (naturally occurring baldness), defluvium capillorum (loss of hair after fevers, &c.), and alopecia (a local affection). The latter may be produced by inflammation, by parasitic fungi, by the presssure of tumours, and by disordered nerve influence. This last he believes to be the cause of porrigo decalv. (area Celsi). He admits that the hair-bulbs are atrophied, but thinks that this is a secondary result of paralysis of trophic nerves. Treatment must be stimulant, local and general. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. Irwin, B. J. D.— On Euphorbia Prostrata as an Antidote to the poison of the Rattlesnake. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861. Adrian.—New method for obtaining a neutral and unalterable Solution of Perchloride of Iron. Ball. Gen. de Therap. Glasgow Med. Journ., April, 1861. Smith, Hanbury,—Mineral Waters and their Uses. Amer. Med. Times, Aug. roth, 17th, 24th, 31st; Sept. 7th, 14th, aist; Oct. 12th. DuNDAS Thomson, R .—On the In^uence of Impure Water in the produc- tion of Disease. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. i^th. De PiETRA Santa.—071 the Climate of Algeria. L'Union Med., Dec. iith, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 9th. The author describes the climate as happily intermediate between a temperate and tropical, and recommends it as specially adapted for cases of phthisis and chronic pulmonary disease. The atmosphere is very pure, its amount of moisture moderate, and the variations of its density slight, ■while the temperature also is not subject to any great alternations either daily, or at different seasons. Lemaire.—The Uses of Phenic Acid. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 15th. It will preserve anatomical specimens, if smeared on the surface of air- tight jars, or injected into the vessels. A solution of i part of phenic acid and 40 parts acetic, in 100 of water, cures tinea (fa\ us ? ) in thirty or forty days, and scabies immediately. Lallemand.—On the Peculiar Action of different Anaesthetics in pro- ducing Insensibility. Gaz. des Hopit., Sept., i860. Edin. Med. Journ., Jan. Lallemand and his coadjutors found that alcohol and amylene, like chloroform and ether, abolish the sensibility and motor function of the spinal cord, while the inhalation of COg or CO leaves these functions intact until the moment of the animal's dcatli. These latter ao'ents alter the qualities of the blood, and so impede or arrest sensibility. The former accumulate remarkably in the brain and liver.