REPOUT ON SURGERY. SIG Skey.—Treatment of Ilousomdirs Knee by the Thread Scton. Lancet, April 37tli, p. 409. SIcey applies the seton to all forms of the housemaid's knee; he thinks it best suited to the hard and indurated burase. The accession of inflammation is made known by a little redness around the entrance of the thread, and the swelling either subsides altogether or, what is more common, an abseess forms, which is opened, and the cavity becomes obliterated. MoBTOX.—Cases of Excision of Bursa. Grlasgow Med. Joum., No. xxxiv, July, p. 9 [. Nelatok.—On Partial Extirpation and some other palliative measures in the treatment of Incui'able Cancer. Journ. de Med. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Oct., part 10, p. 447. Art. 6098. A report of three cases in which Nclaton advantageously removed, with the ecraseur, large portions of cancerous tumours, the total extir- pation of wliicli was impossible, which, by their size and on account of the fetid ichor oozing from their ulcerated surfaces, occasioned extreme distress. The surgeon should be provided with perchloride of iron and cauteries wherewith to stay the free bleeding when he uses the knife in cases of this kind ; when the ecraseur is used, however, styptics are rarely necessary. Topicall}^, Nelaton employs a belladonna pomade, with or without the addition of iodide of lead. CoLLis, H. M.—On Cancer. 8vo, Dublin, Fannin and Co. Pamphlet, IS. 6d. Pancoast.-—Cases of Cancer, tvith remarks. Philadelphia jNIed. and Surg. Eep., March 2nd, p. 591. Moore.—Development of a Cyst in front of a Scirrhous Tmnotir of the Breast; removal, together unth diseased Axillary Glands. Lancet, April 20th, p. 387. Parker.—Cancer of the Mammary Glands. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860, p. 339. Smith, H. H.—Three cases of Carcinoma of the Female Breast. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860. Gmoss.—Itapidly recurring Cancer of the Breast; eighteen ojjerations in the course of three years and a half; thirty-four Tumours removed. lb., p. 337. Macnamaea, Prof. E.—Case of reproductive Encysted Tumour. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. 1.15th, p. 19. Pan-coast.—Encephaloid Cancer of the Mammary Gland ; operations for its removal. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 26th, p. 451. Pancoast.—Scirrhous Cancer of the Breast;" removal; post-mortem. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 9th, p. 619. M-OOViV..—Scirrhous Cancer of the Male Breast; crcision; recovery. Lancet, Aug. 3rd, p. no. Feegtjsson.—Scirrhoxis Cancer of the Male Breast; excision, lb., p. III. WoBMALD.—Scirrhous Cancer of the Male Breast; refiml to suhmt to an operation. lb.