61 I'OOD, aiEDJCXNE, AND POISOX. I without discussion. (5) The diuresis Avhich often follows when an amelioration of llie condition of the circulation has been produced in organic allections of the heart through the administration of digitalis, is only a mediate eifect resulting from the return of the circulation to its normal condition. (6) All authors are unanimous in admitting that digitalis exerts a powerful action on the stomach, stimidating the appe- tite ill small doses; but in those which are recjuired to act upon the heart, inducing anorexia, or eveji nausea, so as to become in many cases the cause of dangerous dyspepsia. From the above it follows that digitalis should be employed in afl'ec- tions of the heart consisting in narrowing of the orifices of this organ. But, in other affections, accompanied by palpitations, great care must be takeii not to give it, inasmuch as the relief it gives rise to is in such cases insignificant, and so far from acting on the primary cause of the disease, it would, in the majority of cases, only keep this up by derang- ing the functions of the digestive organs. Lastly, it should not be administered in dropsy which does not depend upon an affection of the heart, for it possesses no diuretic properties, and given in such cases, imder this false idea, it may become a cause of dyspepsia, and place new obstacles in the way of recovery, or hasten the fatal termination of the disease. iNiiAJf, Dr. T.—Coloration of Fceces after faJciiiff ATercurials. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 12th, p. 397, and Nov. and, p. 478. The author gives the following deductions as the result of his own and others' experience:—(a) That the peculiar colour of the stools in each animal does not depend upon a variety of colour in the bile ; (b) that the colour is due to some change which occurs in the colon; (c) that the colour varies Avith the food, the bile remaining the same; (d) that no change occurs in the colon in the total absence of bile. ScuNJiinEii, Dr.—On the JtCliminatioii of Mercury from the System. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, p. 281. The Vienna correspondent states that Dr. Schneider's researches have yielded the following results :—During the internal administra- tion of such preparations the electrolytic exaniination of the urine shows always traces of mercury ; but the' quantities are so small that the amouiit of urine discharged within twenty-four hours is often not suffi- cient for a satisfactory result, and the metal must be searched for in the whole of the urine discharged within from three to six days. Traces of luercuiy were also found in the urine of a patient who had not taken it internally, but had been treated with mercurial ointment. The elimi- nation of the drug by the urine lasts for some time after the mercurial treatment has been discontinued. In the first weelc afterwards it is invariably found, and in two cases it was even discovered in the fourth and the sixth week afterwards. After six weeks Dr. Schneider has never succeeded in discovering traces of mercury by electrolysis The elimination of it is not promoted by the administration of iodide of potassuim, as the quantity of mercury contained in the urine was not at all increased, but rather diminished, when that dru<^ was given • and