SUBJT)CTS OP GENERAL lyTEltKST. matter producing the green tint, is extracted from the water. The chloroform is then drawn off, filtered, and evaporated. To the residue is added distilled water, which takes up the colouring principle, leaving the fatty material. A second admixture of chloroform is effected, and the ethereal solution is again drawn off, filtered, and evaporated as before. Thus are obtained the blue principle and the yellowish material. A few drops of hydrochloric acid are added (which reddens the blue principle), and the chloroform then dissolves the yellow matter, leaving untouched the blue, which is triturated with carbonate of baryta,^ in ordpr to get_ rid of the acid and is on evaporation of the chloroformic solution deposited in prismatic crystals of a beautiful blue colour. These crystals are soluble in water, alcohol, ether, and chloroform ; and the solution is reddened by the addition of an acid, the original tint being restored on the further admixture of an alkali. This principle M. Fordos has called pyocyanine. MATTEircci, Prof.—Electro-physiological Researches. Eleventh series. On the secondarij Electro-motor Power of JVe7-ves, and its application to the explanation of certain Electro-physiological Phenomena. Proc. Eoy. Soc., No. 45, p. 384. The object of this paper is to show, by experiment, that when a nerve is traversed by an electric current, it acquires in all its points a secondary electro-motor power, and consequently becomes capable of producing in a conducting homogeneous circuit, whose extremities touch any two points of that nerve, an electric cun-ent in an opposite direction to that of the original current. This result is independent of the vital properties of the nerves, but is affected in greater or less degree by their physical condition. A similar effect, indeed, the author says, is produced by the passage of an electric current in all porous substances imbibed with a conducting liquid, and this phenomenon has been studied in its generality by other physicists ; bat the purpose of the present paper is to determine the conditions of the secondary electro-motor power of nerves, in order to make a due applica- tion of these conditions to the explanation of the phenomena exhibited by nerves on the opening of a voltaic circuit which has traversed them. ScnrLTZE, Max.—Chemical Researches on the Electrical Organ oj the Torpedo and Caudal Organs of the Skate. Journ. f prakt. Chem., vol. Ixxxii, p. I, 1861. , The electrical organs of the living fish have an acid reaction, and this I they retain for a certain time after death. In an aqueous extract of the : organ the author found a considerable quantity of phosphate of lime, but no magnesia. It also contained a small quantity of sulphates, a large amount of chloride of sodium, but no potash. Among the organic sub- stances found may be mentioned urea (in large quantity), creatinine, from the creatine, taurine (?), and a new substance, the exact nature of which was not ascertained. ^Bevertdge, E. (Aberdeen).—On the Function of the Epiglottis. Edin. Med. Journ., Aug., p. 144. The author observes that the epiglottis is itself of a triangular or leaf- like form, having its broad upper end immediately behind the tongue. This upper end is rounded, the central portion of it being free, while the 8 I