REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 4.66 which arises from the constant friction against each other of the little leaden weights, one of which is attached to every thread of the warp to keep it tight. In Berlin this is a common source of lead poisoning. The author next dwells on the hahility of weavers to hypochondriasis, arising from the isolation of tlieir life, to dyspepsia, to nlfections of the eyes, consequent upon the constant straining of vision which their work requires' and to deforiiiiiies. In the weaver the muscles of the left side are abnor- mally developed, and the spinal column is curved to the left in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions. His gait is peculiar; he lifts his feet high in walking, as if he were ascending a stair. Dr. Seemann further describes the various kinds of loom-work in relation to their effects on health. Demarquette.—On the Diseases of Workmen in the Collieries of Cour- rieres, Billy, and Lietard. Bull, de I'Acad. de Med., vol. xxv, No. 7. Canst., vol. vii, p. 62. The author precedes his communication with a short sketch of the mode of life of the French colliers, dwelling particularly on their reckless and impi-ovident habits, their early marriages, and their exclusive clannisli- ness. From his account of the diseases to which they are hable, it would appear that their sanitary condition contrasts strongly with those of English pitmen. Demarquette states that they die early, and " become asthmatical, and suffer from organic disease of the heart at fifty." Phthisis is said to be unusually frequent. Perron.—On the Diseases of Watchmakers produced by copper and the absorption of cupreous molecules. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 71. M. Perron's paper relates to the watchmakers of Besan9on, in which town more than 3000 workmen are employed in this branch of industry. The author, after reviewing the opinions of former observers on the effects of copper on the health of those who work with it, and relating various illustrative clinical facts, shows from the statistics of mortality of the town that of the whole number of watchmakers who died during the nine years ending i860, sixty-three per cent, died of phthisis, while in adult males engaged in other occupations that disease was fatal to twenty-two per cent, only. From these figures, and from clinical observation, he infers that the trade of watchmaking acts injuriously mainly as a pre- disposing cause of jDhthisis. The author concludes that the sedentary life of the workpeople and their habit of working in the cold, the irritating effect of the inhalation of copper-dust, and the ingestion of copper, ar^ the most important agents in the production of this result. Teebuchet.—On the ]}reparatio7i of Hides and other animal dibris. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xv, p. 250. Vernois.— On the preparation of Hogs' Bristles. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. XV, p. 289. FOOD. 'RovDWV.—Report to the " Conseil d'Hygiene publique et de Salubrity" of the Department of the Seine, on the wholesomeness of the water of the Seine considered as a drinking water. Journ. de Pharui., vol. xl, p. 346.