REPORT ON SURGERY. 26a These comprise a partial resection of the shoulder-blade, one of the fifth rib, of portions of the cranial bones, of the malar bone, and of the xipper and lower jaw. BuTCllEB.—JExcinion of (he Radius from one orlictilar surface to the oilier; recovery, luilh almont licrfecl moiions and funclionn of the limhpreserved. Dublin Quart. Journ., Feb. ist, p. 29. Bone-rjrowth. Humphry, Gt. M.—Ohservations on the growth of Long Bones and of Stumps. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 417. Bone-alsorpiion. Billhoth, Dr. H.—On Bone-ahsorption. Langenbeck's Archivf. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 119. Billroth adduces some well-marked examples of the absorption of ivory pegs driven into living bone—a now well-known fact—in disproof of Virchow's theory of the origin of the pits seen in exfoliated bone, according to which, through the agency of the living bone-cells, the bone falls to pieces into ifs separate cell-territories, of which it was originally constructed. Billroth thinks that the granulations convey a solvent of the bone-earth, which, when dissolved, is absorbed by their vessels and removed. Absorption does not go on where the living granulations are separated from the dead bone by a layer of pus. Diseases of Bone. Le Gkos Clark, F.—Diseases of Bone. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 16th, p. 165. A clinical lecture. , Caries and Necrosis. Senftleben, H.—On the Predilection-places of Partial Necrosis. Yir- cbow's Archiv £ Path. Anat. u. Pliys., vol. xxiii, part 3 j new series, vol. i, part 3. From the results obtained during three years at the Berlin Surgical Clinik the author shows the slight danger of operations for necrosis compared with that which attends other operations on bones, <•.//. resections ; no death liaving occurred during this period in cases of the first kind, whilst one third of the cases of resection had ended fatally from pyajmia. He explains the safety of operations for necrosis by the fact that fresh bony surfaces are not exposed, the cavities from which the sequestra are removed being lined witli granulations or, in some instances, with condensed bony tissue. Where the latter happens recovery is retarded, because the eburnated tissue, from want of suflioicnt vascularity, cannot form granulations, and continues to exfoliate. Eburnation is chiefly observed where the necrosis is slow and gradua , particularly in central necroses, operations for which are attended Avilh more injury to the soft parts than those undertaken for other forms.