219 SECBJSTORY SYSTEM. ment, including venesection if the general power is good, whenever the case is seen early. Such cases are the desquamative nephritis of Johnson or the htemotrophy of Prout. HocnY,.—Amaurosis considered as a prognostic sign in Albuminuria. Lond. Med. Eev., March, 1861. Amaurosis ordinarily exists in well-marked cases, accompanied by grave symptoms, such as general and persistent oedema, convulsions, the chronic progress of the disease &c., and terminating in the death of the patient. It is therefore a serious prognostic symptom, and is perhaps, more frequent than convulsions in fatal cases. Oppler.—Contributions to the Doctrine of TJrcemia. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, part 3. From his experiments, Oppler concludes that French's theory, as to the production of ursemic phenomena by carbonate of ammonia, derived from decomposed urea, is incorrect. The injection of carbonate of ammonia in place of causing depression of the nervous system, acted as an irritant, it never produced coma, but, on the contrary, convulsions, which are only occasionally met with in uraemia. He gives the details of twelve experiments in which the kidneys were extirpated, or the ureters tied, or urea injected into the stomach or the blood. From these he arrives at the following conclusions:—(i) That decomposition of urea into carbonate of ammonia cannot be regarded as the cause of uraemic phenomena, for these were not produced by the injection of this salt, nor could a trace of it be detected in the blood of eight ursemic dogs ; (2) chemical examination of the blood and the muscles demonstrates the presence of a large quantity of kreatiu and leucin in the latter, and an enormous increase of the extractive matters in the former. He believes this to depend, not upon a simple mechanical retention of renal excreta, but upon decompositions going on in various organs in consequence of a change in the crasis of the blood. From two lbs. of muscle of a dog deprived of both kidneys thirty-four grains of kreatiu were obtained with a large quantity of leucin, while five grains only of kreatin were found by Neubauer in the same amount of human muscle, and the daily amount of the same passing off by the kidneys was seven and three quarters grains. Oppler infers from these facts that analogous products of decomposition are formed and accumulated in the brain and spinal cord, and that these chemical changes account for the disordered nervous functions, the giddiness, dull headache, unconsciousness, stupor. Oppler further shows that his experiments afford strong evidence against the commonly received doctrine of the exclusive formation of urea in the blood. After extirpation of the kidneys 2 lbs. of muscle gave i grain of nitrate of urea, but after ligature of the ureters i^^ lb. of muscle gave nearly 62 grains. After extirpation of the kidneys 3+ oz. of blood gave 4 grains of nitrate of urea, while after ligature of the ureters 6^ oz. of blood contained 7 grains. " How can this great difference be accounted for, except on the supposition that the great excess of urea after ligature of the ureters is the expression of the amount formed inde- pendently by the kidneys?"