SUPPUUATION. 241 A charge of No. 6 shot, fired from a gun at a distance of twelve feet, passed through the condyles of the right femur, obliquely downwards, then entered the left leg behind the inner edge of the tibia, and lodged beneath the skin at the outer side of the leg, without injuring the vessels. The condyles of tlie right femur were much comminuted, but the damage to the soft parts was limited to the immediate borders of the wounds of entrance and exit. The main vessels and the nerves appeared to have escaped injury. This determined Hutchinson in favour of resection of the knee-joint. The condyles and lower part of the shaft of the femur were found shattered to atoms; about a hundred fragments of bone, with many shots, were removed. A thin slice only was taken from the tibia. The patella had escaped injury. Nearly a teaspoonful of shots and two wads were taken out of tlie left leg. On the sixth day rigors; on the seventh, trismus; on the eighth, acute tetanus, ending fatally in two days. Spasms were excited by the slightest touch on the left leg. At the examination of the body the right knee was found in a satisfactory condition. Two or three shots were discovered in the sheath of the posterior tibial nerve in the left leg. SUPPURATION. EosEN, Wu.—On tlie Mechanism of Abscess. Archiv d. Heilk., ii, i, p. I, ]86i. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 59. This paper contains an inquiry into the value of drainage tubes. Stanley.—BemarJcable simulation of a Fatty Tumour hy an Abscess, in two instances. Lancet, April 27th, p. 409, Jessop, "W.—The Surgical Treatment of Sinuses. Lancet, March 9th, P- 235- Jessop reports two cases of obstinate sinuses in the groin successfully treated by making small cuts into each sinus at several points in its course, and then applying pressure so as to obliterate the sinus by adhesion of its opposite surfaces at the incised spots. BEEcn, E.—On Panaritium. Hospitals Tidende, No. a<, 18 Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 63. The author describes three kinds—the cutaneous, subcutaneous, and deep, together with then- complications and treatment. CiDT, C. E.—Lmnlar Abscess opening into the Bowels. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 27th, p. 9^. VoiLLEMTEE. —Treatment of Cold Abscess of the NecJc, and of Critical Abscess by Capillary Puncture. Journ. de Med et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Oct., part 10, p. 447, art. 6099. The success which had attended this treatment in sanguineous tumoura has led Vo.llemicr to adopt it in abscesses of thi above- mentioned kmds. He repeats the puncture li-om day to day, and immediately afterwards covers the abscess with a poultice