182 DBPORT OX I'EACTICAL MEDICINE. tnincd by the ndniinistrntion of squills or colcliiciim. In nged pmonR it sliould he given willi ciiiclionn, in the phthisical with opium. The suhse- quent administration of arsenic in cyanotic heart disease is often very beneficial. Gekhaiidt, C—Cases of Heart Disease. Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jnlirb., vol. 111, p. 173. In thirty-six cases the mitral valve was affected twenty-six times, in five the aorta, in one there was stenosis of the pidmonary orifice, in one co- existence of mitral and aortic insufficiency, in three tricuspid insufiiciency. Acute rheumatism was the cause in fourteen cases, chronic in one, ague in one. In five cases the valvular disease came on gradually with palpi- tation and dyspnoea. CEdema occurred in half the cases, but the urine •was alhuminous in only four. The author believes that rapid dilatation of the cavities, with corresponding hypertrophy, prevents tension of the venous system, while an unyielding condition of the walls, on the contrary, induces dropsy early. The impulse was increased in all the cases, in seven it was heaving. In eleven instances it was felt in the line of the nipple, in twelve to the left, in three to the right. In twelve cases a systolic thrill was felt, in one at the same time a diastolic. Murmurs were fourteen times systolic, ten times systolic and diastolic, in two cases there never was any. Intensification of the second pulmonary sound was constant. In eleven patients the pulse was irregular, in nine surprisingly small, and this always together with diastolic murmur. Digitalis was of use in most cases. Five cases are related in detail. Skoda.—On the Complications of Valvular Disease of the Heart, and their treatment. Allg. Wieu, Med. Ztg., v, 47, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 178. * Skoda lays down that dropsy, irregularity of pulse, &c., are not to be considered necessary results of cardiac disease. Treatment can do much to remove such complications, though it is powerless against the organic lesion. Morbid innervation of the heart is a frequent cause of deranged action; it can often be successfully treated, but the appropriate means in each case can only be found out by experiment. In most cases quinine is eff"ectual, in some digitalis, in others the combination of the two. Digitalis should be given in sufficient doses, and not too long. It is most useful when the heart's action is very frequent, and signs of arrest of the circulation appear. Cold applications are more efi'ectual than leeches, sinapisms, or venesection. The latter, however, is essential in cases where suffocation is imminent from venous engorgement. Purgatives and diuretics are of no avail in this case, but in less grave states are service- able as well as diaphoretics. FofiGEi, and Campana.—On the Etiology of Hypertrophy of the Heart, with cases. L'Union, ci, 1859. Inaug. Diss., Paris, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 179. Forgel, after relating two cases of cardiac dropsy, in which, with dilated hypertrophy of both ventricles, the aortic and mitral valves were found healthy, but the tricuspid incompetent, lays down the law, " that