347 OBSTETraCAL OPERATIONS. ' fimnionic stic, use of ergot of rye, separation of the membranes; intro- ducing a sound and tapping the sac ; introducing a flexible catheter into the uterine cavity and leaving it in situ; dilatation of the cervix ; introducing a calf's bladder into the vagina and distending it with water, the modern adaptation of which is the colpeurynter ; the air-pessary ; the employment of galvanism, the application of sinapisms to the breast, or employment of cupping-glasses; injection of carbonic acid into the vagina ; the warm douche to the vaginal portion of the uterus (Kiwisch) ; employment of intra-uterine injections, first devised by Schweighauser, but now known as Cohen's method; the true uterine douche. The author believes it very difficult to get at the truth as to the respective merits of these me- thods ; the vaginal and uterine douche, however, appear, from statistics, to be far more fatal to the child than the other methods. The recent expansion of the principle of dilatation of the cervix by caoutchouc dilators (Keiller and Murray), as a method of inducing labour, is next considered. Tbe author has devised instruments on this principle, and details the following cases in which he has successfully employed them :— in two cases of placenta prsevia ; in a case of contracted pelvis, with cicatri- zation of the OS uteri, where labour, having been induced by the douche, was accelerated by the caoutchouc dilator and turning ; in two cases where labour was induced and accelerated by its means. The elastic cervical dilator, in the form contrived by the author, offers, he contends, a means of effecting delivery safely and at will, the douche being very uncertain in its effect. Tbe instruments employed by him are, in the preparatory stage, short metallic bougies, next cylindrical caoutchouc dilators, some of which are of a fiddle shape, and are injected with water after introduction into the OS uteri. In connexion with this subject, the importance of Dr. Hick's method of external turning is alluded to as a means of terminating labour advanced to a certain stage. In conclusion, the author advocates the fol- lowing new classification of labour-inducing agents—(a) preparatory measures ; (b) lai)our-provocative measures ; (c) labour-accelerating mea- sures ; as affording a basis for the better selection and adaptation of remedial means. Farre, Dr. Arthur.—Induction of Premature Labour; successful result. Lancet, Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 158. The labour was induced at the thirty-third week by separating the membranes around and near the os by an elastic catheter. The child was born alive, weighed three pounds four ounces, and, together with the mother, did well. Simpson, Prof.—Induction ofPremature Labour ; neio indications for it; modes of production. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., 1861, p. 289, A patient had been twice delivered of hydrocephalic children, in both cases puncture of the head being required. Labour was pre'niaturely induced, and a live child obtained. The method employed was injection of carbonic acid into the uterus. The author, however, is stronglv opposed to tins operation in future cases, from the fatal effects reported to have resulted m other instances from a like procedure. After discussin-r the several methods of inducing premature labour, he expresses himseff in