333 genehal anatomy and physiology. Wilson, Dr. J. G,—Case of early Maternity, with remarks. Ed. Med. Journ., Oct., 1861, p. 332. , T^ v The age of the patient was thirteen years and six months. Delivery took place at the full time. The labour only occupied three hours. Wntf^-K.—Observations on the Foetal Pulse. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. Report of meeting of German naturalists, &c. (Obstetric section), at Spires, 1861. The author finds the foetal pulse increased in frequency under certain circumstances. He associates this change in the frequency of the pulse ^vith—(i) Febrile condition of the mother, e.g. in a case of lung tuber- culosis, in a case of pleuritis, in a case of severe metro-peritonitis, in a case of pneumonia, in a fifth case where there was no evident cause for the febrile condition. He counted thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen beats of the fcetal pulse in five seconds—a method of counting he has found very convenient. (The normal ratio is stated as eleven beats in five seconds in 83 per cent, of all cases, as twelve beats in 10 per cent., and ten beat.s in 7 per cent.) He never found a feverish condition of the mother without corresponding fcetal pulse acceleration. (2) Diseases of the foetus, as in cases of intra-uterine smallpox, of which instances are recorded by Hohl and Depaui. (3) Protracted labour, a cause of fcetal pulse accelera- tion. Thus, in three cases, owing to deformity of pelvis, the children were born dead. Here the frequency of the foetal pulse depends on asphyxia of child inducing respiratory movements, and these respiratory movements, only partially effectual, creating acceleration of the heart-beat. Ravn.—On the duration of Pregnancy, Copenhagen, 1856. Canst., vol. iv, p. 415. After examining the various theories which have been broached on the subject of the cause of labour, the author concludes that it depends on impressions, direct or reflex, on the nerves. The irritation probably proceeds from the whole ovum, the movements of the child being in- sufficient to account for it. Pa JOT.—Pelvimetry. Gaz. des Hop., Jan. 8th, 1861. Earle, Dr.—Neiv Pelvimeter. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. It consists of a pair of curved blades seven inches long, ending in two small bulbs, and kept in apposition by a steel spring placed between the handles. Fixed to one of the handles is a steel plate, engraved as an index. By compressing the handles the blades are separated, and made to touch the sacrum and pelvis respectively. On the index ex- ternally is expressed the extent of the separation of the arms internally. Byford, Dr.—Ow Pelvic Measurements. Amer. Med. Journ., Jan 1861 p. 293. The author uses Baudelocque's callipers. He measures, first, the thick- ness of the pelvis; then the thickness of the sacrum ; thirdly the thick- ness frofn pubis to sacrum externally ; and obtains the diameter of the superior strait by subtracting the two first from the third measurement