JIEPOET ON MIDWIFEEY, ETC. 898 Ross, Dr. W. H. (Cape Town).—Symptoms of Typhoid and Brain Fever induced by Worms. Lancet, Nov. 9th, 1861, p. 458. Baiulliee.—On the Enteritis of Sucklings. Journ. de Bord., Aug., Sept., i860, and March, April, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 64. The author's conclusions are drawn from observation of 127 ciises. The study of the causes of the disease he considers most important. The disease is most fatal in the first month, it is most fatal in males. Weakly children are predisposed to it. It is most frequent in the summer. Partial chilling of the body is a cause. Residence has a very important influence, the children in the hospital at Bordeau,x were more affected than others. Most important, however, is the nourishment the child obtains. Gastric disturbances are frequently observed in children deriving nourish- ment from nurses who are menstruating. Artificial feeding is a frequent source of enteritis. The symptomatology and the treatment of the affection are then fully considered. Dysentei'ia in Infants at Borne. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 9th, 1861, p. 487. RliDEL.—On Invbgination of the Intestine. Mon. f. Geb., May, 1861, P-3a4- TiiOBOWGOOD, Dr.—Account of a fatal case of Intussusception in an In- fant nine months old. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 160. At the junction of the transverse and descending colon a large complex knot of invaginated bowel was found, consisting of the colon, csecum, and part of the ileum. Rose, Dr.—Case of fatal Intussusception in an Infant five months old' Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th, 1861, p. 597. The seat of the invagination was the junction of the transverse and descending colon. ' PENaUER. Invagina tion of the Cceciim and its appendix in the descending Colon through the transverse Colon in a child aged four months; autojjsy. L'Un., Aug. 22ud, 1861. FouCHEB. Cure of Prolapsus Ani in Children by subcutaneous injection of Sulphate of Strychnine. Rev. de Tlu'r., ii, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 61. A case is related in which this method of treatment was successful. DotBEAU Prolapsus Ani cured by subcutaneous injection of Sidphate of Strychnia. Bull, de Tlier., Dec, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 195. In two cases reported a favorable result was obtauied. In a third no such result was obtained, after repeating the injection four times. Ke6ne?cbekg.—On Polypi of the Rectum in Children. Journ. f. Kinderk. Jan. and Feb., 1S61, p. i. . ^, The author relates four cases of this alTection. The nature, causes, history, and treatment pf the aflection, are considered at length.