CIllCUIiATOEY SYSTEM. 189 the arterial obstruction is tlie effect, and not the cause, of the disease in the part supplied by the vessel. He admits that the obstruction may be in some cases produced by local arteritis, though more usually their origin is to be sought in a diseased state of the cardiac valves, or in the existence of loose clots in the heart, or of pneumonia. Trousseau and Dumontpelliek.—On E7nboli of the Pulmonary Artery. L'Union Medicale, Dec. 13th, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 2.3rd. The following are their conclusions :—(i) Fibrinous obstructions of the pulmonary arte°y are lesions of very common occurrence. (2) Sponta- neous coagulations in the pulmonary artery, formed in situ, may generally be distinguished from migratory clots derived from the peripheral venous system. (3) There are thus two varieties of pulmonary coagulations- one primary, due to some disease of the lung, such as pneumonia, cedema, apoplexy, &c.; and the other secondary, resulting from the mi- gration of a peripheral venous clot. (4) Every condition of system which causes an increased amount of fibrin in the blood is favorable to coagula- tion. (5) Local causes of a mechanical nature may act as determining causes. (6) Organic diseases of the heart are most influential in inducing obstructions of the pulmonary artery, partly by the general cachectic condition of the system wliich'they induce and partly by the mechanical obstacle which they offer to the pulmonary circulation. Conrad.—On Auscultation of the Vessels. Giessen, i860. Canst. Jahresbcr., vol. ii, p. 77. Conrad's conclusions are, that of the two sounds heard over the arteries of the neck, not only the second, but in a great number of cases also the first, is only to be regarded as a conducted heart-sound, and that the same holds good of sounds audible even as far as the crural or the middle of the brachial artery. He also observed gentle post-diastolic, intermitting venous murmurs in the neck, which were convertible by pressure into loud bruits de diable. Moore, W. D.—Additional observations on Sudden Death after Fttruncles of the Face. Translated from the Hospitals-Tidende, March 5th, i860. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. ist. Two cases of this kind are recorded in detail, with careful autopsies. From the furuncle veins were traced to the ophthalmic vein, and thence to the cavernous and adjacent sinuses, which contained more or less distinctly purulent matter. The walls of these veins and sinuses were thickened, their inner surface discoloured and roughened, and the epithelium abraded, while their contents were decomposed blood, pus-cells, and elementary granules. In one case suppuration had taken place within the arachnoid, in the other there was only some congestion of the veins of the pia mater. The course of the disease was rapid (two to three days) ; the symptoms were very uniform, viz., headache, delirium, stupor, dilatation of the pupil, difficulty of swallowing, and incontinence of urine. The writer discusses the causality and consequences of cerebral sinus phlebitis, but does not think tliat they have yet been fully elucidated, or that this affection per se sufficiently accounts for the symptoms above mentioned. {Vide also a case by Weber, 'Virch. Arch.,' xi. •Schmidt's Jahrb.,' vol. no, p. 304.)