MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 15 viciilar attachment of the posterior belly; in the remaining three the posterior belly was perfectly normal. In four out of the five cases the anterior belly became blended by its inner border with the adjacent margin of the sterno-hyoid muscle, so that it appeared to form with it a single, undivided plane of fibres. This intimate ^union_ of the two muscles was generally accompanied by a peculiar condition of the sterno-hyoid, a fibrous band extending from the intermediate tendon of the orao-hyoid, so as to divide the sterno-hyoid into two portions, an upper and a lower. Weismank, Aug.—On the Gh'oicth of the Striated Muscles, from obser- vations on the Froff. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 263. Canst., vol. i, p. 48. Unlike Margo, who advocates the exclusively interstitial growth of the muscular fibre, "Weismann is led to the conclusion that muscu- lar increase is mainly due to multiplication of the fibres by division, an act preceded by multiplication and bi-linear arrangement of the nuclei, and repeated in each succeeding generation of fibres. Stepha^t, Ph.—The Nticleiform Structwes of the Primitive Mmcular Bundles. Erlangen, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 45. Welkee, H.—The Nttcleiform Structures of the Striated Muscular Fibre, and the question of the existence of a Flasmatic Vascular System in Muscles. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 238. Canst., vol. i, p. 45. Stephan, who contends that the nuclei of the muscular fibres are nothing but lacuna} containing coagulable matter, is corrected by "Welker, who has, in the proteus, even succeeded in isolating the body in question. The latter observer decidedly negatives the opinion that these struc- tures together form an intercommunicating system, though he believes they imbibe from the capillaries plasma destined probably to restore the constitution of the fibre after a period of activity. Habless.—On Chemical and Ph/sical Processes in Muscular Substance- Deutsche Klinik, i860, April 38th. Canst., vol. i, p. 5. According to the author's researches—(i) A frog's muscle contracts more slowly than natural if it is fatigued or anaemic, diy or injected with syrup, or cooled to 40°. (2) The contraction is most rapid when the muscle has lain a little while in water, or has been warmed to 95°. (3) Cooling slightly lengthens the frog's muscles, warming to 95° greatly shortens them. The muscles of the mammalia are shortened by a heat of 112°, and are killed by a slightly higher temperature. (4) These phe- nomena are attributed by Harless to the coagulation of a certain albu- minous substance. Eeiser, K. — The Oj}eraiion ofI>ifferent Beagents on the Striated Muscular Filament. Zvirich, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 49. Under the guidance of Erey, the author carried out a series of expe- riments in extension of the earlier researches of Hackel, tending to show that the sarcous elements of the muscular fibre are cemented