DISEASES OP CHILDUEN. 899 KIDNE'XS AND GENEBATIVE ORGANS. Behrend, Fr. J.—On Initation of the Sexual Organs, and particularly on Onanism in very young Children, and the treatment of such cases. Journ. f. Kind., Nov. and Dec, i860, p. 321. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 58. The means of diagnosticating the presence of the habit are here pointed out, also the effects produced by its continuance. The essay contains a resumd of the observations of Johnson (Athol), Barthez and Rilliet, Marjolin, Fournier, Zimmerraann and Van Bambeke, in reference to the treatment of such cases. The diagnosis, causes, and treatment, are severally discussed. Pro- longed cold affusions, cold hip-baths, belladonna given internallj', operation for phymosis in males, cauterization of the labia in girls, are means of treatment alluded to; the two latter are curative by rendering onanism painful to the child. Urcemia produced by disease of the Kidneys after Scarlet-fever. Cases observed at the St.Ann^s Children's Hospital. Jahrb. f. Kind., N. 3, p. 204. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 206. Hambubsin.—On the treatment of the accidents and complications of Scarlet-fever, and especially of the Dropsy and the Albwninuria. Second article. Journ. f. Kind., Jan. and Feb., 1861, p, 11. BONES AND JOINTS. Morel-Lavallee.—On Coxalgia in the Foetus, and its relation to con- genital luxation of the femur. Arch. Gen., Aug,, 1861, p. 172. The author analysing the facts related by others, and two cases of his own, concludes that congenita] luxation of the femur is generally due to an affection of the hip in the foetus, correctly represented by the ex- pressions coxalgia, arthritis, hydrarthrosis. The fluid found in the joint is the cause of the displacement.* Friedleben —Ow the physical and chemical constitution of groiinng Rachitic Bones in early Childhood. Jahrb. f. Kind., i860, part3. In brief, the alterations of the bones consist in—(i) increased succulence, or moisture ; and, in consequence of this, (2) deficiency of earthy salts' and (3) altered chemical relations of these salts. The special cause of rachitis, the author believes is to be found in disturbance of the functions of the respiratory organs; the blood is thereby altered, and rachitis so produced—bronchial catarrh is thus the forerunner of the disease. Grandidier.—Jn/amwa^jow and Necrosis of the Upper Jaw in a Child SIX weeks old, from the effects of phosphorus fumes. Journ. f. Kind 1861, May and June, p. 364. ' Blake Robert H.-^ P^Zctical Treatise on Diseases of the S/cin in C^hildren. From the French of Caillault. London, 1861, Churchill,