FEACTURES. 271 Counter-pressure is made by a broad band of stout linen closely en- circling the peMs, and extension, is made by a long outside splint Avith a foot-piece, to which two tapes are affixed, the other ends of which are secured to the patient's stocking. TiroiTAS, E. P.—Eeport of two cases of Fracture of the Thigh, with an account of a new apioaratus. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., p. 97. This apparatus consists of a fracture-box, the upper end of which has a large iron arc, to which the extremities of the perineal band are secured. Extension is made with a small windlass, pulling on the leg by means of a broad loop of plaster. Two woodcuts of this box are given. Its advantage over the long, straight splint is the readiness with M^hich it allows of the dressing of wounds on the outer side or back of the thigh. HiLTOX.—Olinieal remarks on a case of TTnunited Fracture of the Femur of ten years' standing; great shortening. Med. Times and Graz., Mai'ch i6th, p. 276. HjU?TSiroRXE, H.—Case of Fracture of the Thigh successfully treated by new apparatus (Dr. E. P. Thomas's). Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., Jan., p. 123. CooPEH, E. S.—Fracture of the Fenmr treated tvith Starch Appiarafus and Fxtension. Amer. Med. Times, Peb. 28th, p. 130. CoEXAZ.—On Fracture of one of the Condyles of the Femur, toith reference to a case of this accident. Echo Med., No. 19, Oct. loth, P- 473- A memoir read before the Medical Society of Neuchatel. Br.ACK, Dr. 0.—Fracture of the Femur, Tibia, and Fibula, icifh rupture of theposteri or tibial artery. Lancet, Sept. 7th, 1861. Si'MOXDS.—-Frrtc/^o-e of the Femur; death, with typhoid synqotoms on the sixteenth day; autopsy; phlebitis of femoral vein, 'and ^peritonitis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 7th, p. 242. Terht.—p))-omng the possibility of walking after Fracture of the Neck of the Femur. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 220 M\.^n.—Fracttire of the Thigh; dry gangrene of the foot; amputation; recovery. May i8th, p. 523. Struthehs, J.—Crtse of Amputaiion at the Middle of the Think for spreading Gangrene after Compound Fracture of the Leg, in which acupressure loas employed to secure the arteries. Edin. Med Journ Peb., p. 692. ■' G^:lC^\x^xv,JJ.—Transverse Fracture of the Patella, in consequence of a direct blow Wien. Med. Halle, 16, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb vol. 110, No. 6, p. 319. ' TuFXELr, -Double Fracture of the Patella {stellate and transverse) in the same individual, occurring at the same moment from diiTerent causes; perfect recovery in fourteen weeks. Dublin Med Press 405. '