81 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Paralysis of the gastric branches of the vagus does not in the least iuteriere with the various processes of digestion, which may, in fact, under favouring collateral circumstances, proceed more actively than in a normal organ. ° The first depression is entirely the result of the animal's feneral state. Experiment proves that absorption from the stomach goes on with vigor whether the vagi have been severed in the neck or the abdomen. In the former region the operation has the effect of abolishing the sensibility of the stomach and duodenum. Centripetal rellex excitations may take place by the branches of the sympathetic. The sensations of hunger and repletion depend neither on the vagus nor the sympathetic. Wherever the former is divided, the gastric move- ments are not enfeebled in consequence. Davidsojt and Dieterich.—Aids to the theori/ of Gastric Digestion. Eeichert and Dubois' Archiv, i860, p. 688. Canst., vol. i, p. 117. Under the superintendence of Heidenhain, the authors ascertained that not only muriatic and lactic, but the nitric, phosphoric, tartaric, and acetic acids eifect artificial digestion. They consider that the gastric acids act by disintegrating the albuminous substances, so as to expose them to intimate contact with the ferment of the mucous mem- brane, by which they are transformed into peptones. Beintok, Dr. "W. (St. Thomas's).—Experiments and Olservations on the Structtire and Function of the Stomach in the Vertebrate Class, Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 357. The author states—(i) That the pecidiar dimorphous structure pos- sessed by the tubes of the cardiac and middle parts of the stomach in the dog exists in the whole vertebrate class. (2) Many of the vai'ia- tions of the stomach throughout the vertebrate class are essentially oesophageal developments, having a mechanical office. (3) The secre- tion of pepsine is by the dimorphous cell-growth, and of acid by the columnar. (4) The protection of the stomach from its own secretion is effected mainly by the salivary and other secretions which enter it from the oesophagus and duodenum. (5) For units of mucous mem- brane, fishes seem to have the most powerful gastric digestion. (6) " The action of the gastric juice is a transfer to albumen, &c., of a molecular change going on in the gastric juice, pepsine and peptone being essentially analogous to each other in properties." (7) The for- mation of peptone is a hydration of albumen. (8) The pancreatic juice converts albumen into a substance akin to peptone, the change being, however, an incident of putrefaction only, and therefore not a function of the healthy living organ. (9) The intestinal juice neither converts albumen into peptone nor starch into sugar. Mahtitt, P.—The Peristaltic Movements of the Intestinal Canal. 4to, Giessen, 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 116. Under Eckhard's superintendence, the author found—(i) In animals poisoned Avith woorara, for the purpose of excluding nervous influence, the intestinal movements did not differ from those of animals not so destroyed, (a) In poisoning by strychnine the tetanic convulsions were always associated with lively vermicular movements, whence the 6