364. REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. quent than nctunl vomiting. The sickness is a reflex nervons pheno- menon. Uterine trentmcnt, as leeches to the womb or application of Potassa cnm Calce, sometimes checks the vomiting for a period. Besides the reguhir treatment of the nterine affection, it is necessary to adopt other remedial means. As a preliminary, a full dose of calomel once, with alterative doses of blue pill for a week or ten days after. The known remedies for sickness should then be tried. Other remedies, each of which the author has found very useful in particular cases, are, strychnine; solution of morphine in effervescing draughts ; blisters to the epigastrium, dressed with morphine; as a last resource, an issue to the pit of the stomach. When vomiting is protracted, a small quantity of food to be given frequently in the course of the day. Mayer, C.—Cure of Epilepsy pi-oceeding from the Uterus. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., 1861, p. 105. The treatment consisted in leeching the cervix uteri, application of nitrate of silver, &c., whereby the hypersemia and extreme sensibihty present were removed. Anciaux,—Nymphomania in a Woman sixty-one years old; its conse- quences; reflections, medico-legal and pathological, on this subject. Journ. de Me'd. de Brux., March, 1861, p. 249. MENORRHAGIA. Roche.—Menorrhagia occurring at the third menstrual period, and quickly fatal in a Girl aged seventeen; the Uterus empty, and-patient in a perfect state of health. Gaz. des Hop., Dec. 14th, 1861. NoURSE, "W. E.G.—On Uteri7ie Fluxes; their causes and consequences. Lancet, June 29th, 1861, p. 629. The author enumerates the fluxes from the ntero-vaginal tract as—(i) Menorrhagic discharges (excluding those of pregnancy or parturition). (2) Menstrual discharges, menorrhagia, and dysmenorrhoea. (3) Altered discharges, leucorrhoea. Examples of the different varieties of these are given. DYSMENORRHOEA. Tilt, Dr.—Clinical RemarJcs on the Exfoliation of Mucous Membranes from Ihe Womb and the Vagina during menstrual periods. Beale's Archiv., Oct. 9th, 1861, p. 26. , J ■ , The author relates a case in which a membrane resembling the decidua was passed every month, or nearly so, by a married lady the subject of dvsmcnorrlicea. A case of exfoliation from the vagina is also related. The author considers that exfoliation from the womb occurs as a comci- dence of uterine inflammation, that leeches are useful, that use of nitrate of silver is necessary. Wiien stricture of the womb is present dilatation is recommended. Tilt, Tir.—Case of Exfoliation of the entire Mucous Membrane of the Womb during Menstruation. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 149-