357 DISEASES OF WOMEN. stltium has more influence than the northern. (7) Increased barometric pressure, probably, has an influence in diminishing menstruation. GENERAL TEEATISES, LECTUEJSS, ETC.; ON DISEASES OF WOMEN. Gardner, 'Dr.—Translation of Scamo7ii's Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Sexual Organs in Women. (From the French). 8vo, New York, De Witt, 1861, pp. 669. This, the American edition of Scaiizoni's well-known work, contains additions made by the French and American editors. It is illustrated by sixty woodcuts. Brown, Baker.—0« Surgical Diseases of Women, and edition, 8vo, London, Davies, 1861, pp. 410. In this new edition the author has added new chapters or sections on some subjects, and incorporated the cases, with their results, which have come under his notice since the puldication of the first edition. There are histories of forty-two cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, fifty-five cases of cystocele, enterocele, and prolapsus uteri. Twenty additional cases of ovariotomy are recorded. The work is copiously illustrated, the new instruments and procedures for the cure of vesico-vaginal fistula are described and delineated. Hodge, Dr.—On Diseases peculiar to Women. 8vo, Philadelphia, Blan- chard and Lea, i860, pp. 469. Aran (edited by Gauchet).—Clinical Lectures on the Diseases of the Uterus and its Appendages. 3 vols. 8vo, Pai'is, 1858-60. Priestley, Dr. — Two Lectures introductory to the Clinical Course on the Diseases of Women and Children. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 9tb, i6th, 23vd, pp. 135, 161, 189. The author here draws attention to some of the leading characteristics belonging to the two classes of patients (women and children) which exert a marked influence on the production and progress of the morbid affections to which they are liable, and points out some of the principal difficulties which are encountered in investigating their diseases. Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—Lectures on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases of \Vo?nen, delivered at St. Mary's Hospital Medical School. Brit. Med. Journ., from July 6th to Dec. 14th, 1861, pp. i, 55, 139' 193, 247> ^99> 349. 403. 460, 547, 627. The plan of these lectures is to take the various symptoms or condi- tions of the patient, one by one, and to point out the different diseases or conditions which such symptoms may indicate, and the mode of dis- tinguishing them one from the other. The arrangement of the subject is thus a symptomatic, not a pathological, one. The lectures published include considerations of the following data—the age of the patient; sexual relations; disorders of menstruation; unusual discharges of blood from the generative organs when coincident and when not coincident with menstruation ; and the nature and diagnostic signifi- cance of "substances" expelled from the generative organs. The treat- ment of the various diseased conditions present is described. 24,