JlEPOllT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 7S by a metallic cap, whicli is perforated by three holes, into which are inserted corresponding tubes, as will be seen in the diagram (Fig. 3). While in operation, the instrument is laid on a reclining board hori- zontally on the table, having been previously filled with water up to the level of the mark which indicates the commencement of the graduated scale. The glass mouthpiece at the extremity of the elastic tubing is then placed in the mouth, and, after an extreme inspiration, the fullest expiration is made. There is no necessity for any precautions at the close of the expiratory effort. After the effort the instrument is re- placed in the erect position, in order to read off the amount of air in- troduced into the jar. There is no necessity for any correction on account of temperatiu-e, as it is assumed that the air proceeding from the lungs is nearly always of the same temperature. BoCHDALEK.—On the relation of the Mediastimm to the Anterior Tho- racic Wall, the Lungs, the Heart and Pericarditm, Sfc. Prager Vierteljahrsschrift, i860. Using extraordinary precautions against error, this anatomist has endeavoiired, by the examination of the bodies of eighty-one new-bom infants and children, to determine whether Luschka's results (' Tear Book,' vol. i, p. 91), which have been disputed by Hamernjk, be correct. He arranges the cases in five categories:—(a) The right pleura extends only to the right border of the sternum, or to a variable distance towards the left margin, which it sometimes attains, whilst the left pleura reaches that edge in its upper portion only, diverging inferiorly, so as to leave a mediastinal space behind the sternum, and especially behind the cartilages of two to four of the left lower true ribs, where the thymus and pericardium are in part uncovered. (Thirty-three cases.) (6) Both pleurae more or less nearly meet at the left margin of the sternum, so that the mediastinum almost or quite disappears. (Twenty- two cases.) (c) Each pleura reaches the corresponding sternal border, or thereabouts. The space thus left generally narrows more or less from before backwards, or towards the pericardiiun. (Six cases.) (r?) Both pleura3 approximate or arrive at the middle line of the sternum, especially in the body of the bone. (Six cases.) (e) Fourteen cases could not be ranked imder any of these heads. The author engages to publish the results of equally extensive researches in adults. EiCHABDSON, Dr. B. W.—Paper on Itesuscitation. Read at the Meet- ing of the British Association at Manchester, Sept., 1861. Death, in the cases which the author considered proper for attempt at resuscitation, was defined as a condition in which both the beat of the heart and the force of respiration had entirely ceased, and in which the animal, if left alone, would pass into putrefaction and dissolution. There was a limitation as to time after death, during which the means of resuscitation could be applied with a chance of success. This time was limited by one of two occurrences—coagulation of blood in the vessels of the body, and putrefaction of the tissues. The first of these events rarely occurred in cases of death, such as had been described, within twenty minutes; the second was often deferred as many hours. I