348 ]ti;P()KT ox MIDAVU'ERY, ETC. favour of flie iiilrodiiction of a gum-clastic catheter, or other flexible body, and separating tlie membranes from the uterus by its means. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.^—Cases of hiduction of Premature Labour. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th, j86i, p. 609. Case I, contraction of the brim of the pelvis; labour induced at seven and a half months ; child born alive; recovery. Case 2, contraction of the brim of the pelvis ; induction of premature labour at seven and a half mouths ; child born alive ; death next day ; recovery of the mother. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Cases 0/ Induction of Premature Labour (Lancet, Oct. ijth, 1861, p. 33); transverse presentation ; cephalic version by Dr. Hicks' method; forceps ; child alive ; recovery. In the first case there was transverse presentation ; cephalic version was effected by Dr. Hicks' method, the forceps used, a live child extracted. In the second case the shoulder presented, podalic version was effected by the same method, the child was then extracted, but dead. James, Henry.—On the Induction of Premature Labour. Lancet, March 2nd, 1861, p. 210. Seven cases are related in which the following plan for the induction of premature labour was adopted. The os first dilated slightly by means of the finger; a male catheter, large size, then introduced, and the mem- branes carefully separated, to the extent of five or six inches, by means of an elastic bottle attached to the catheter: cold water was next injected through the catheter into the uterus. TURNING. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Further illustrations of the new method of Version. Lancet, Feb. 9th, 1861, p. 134. Six cases are related in which version w^s performed by external, assisted by internal manipulation, after the method described in former papers by the same author. C^SAEEAN SECTION. PiHAN-DuFEiLLAY.—On the Statistics of the Ccesarean Operation. Arch. Gen., Aug. and Sept., 1861, pp. 148, 304. The author states that statistics on the subject appear to be more unfavorable than they really are^ and that in very many cases the unfavor- able result was due more to the anterior accidents, or rather to prolonged manipulations of other kinds and other circumstances, than to the opera- tion itself; hence the mere figures give no clue to the real mortality from the Ccesarean operation per se. The chief causes of the mortality arc h£emorrhage, nervous shock, and peritonitis. The latter is very much more to be dreaded in hospitals thau elsewhere. The author then appends a tabulated list of the operations performed during the fifteen years, 1845—1^59- Tliese are 88 in number; and there were 50 cures and 38 deaths. Eight of these deaths were due to other stated causes. In 5 cases instruments had been long and fruitlessly used; 4 of these died.