FOOD;, JIEDICINBj AND POISON. 55 when taken iu excess, such will necessarily be the direction of its action TV-hen taken in a less degree. 4. It increases the heat of the skin. This will follow from the three former statements; for if more warm blood be sent to a surface iu contact with air, and which, tlierefore, must, at ordinary tempera- tures, be cooler than the blood, there will be an addition to its heat; and also, if the vaporization by the skin be lessened, and by it the abstraction of heat from the surface in the supply of the latent heat when a fluid is converted into vapour, as in the perpetual action of the skin, be lessened, it follows that, with a less dispersion of heat and an increased supply of heat, the skin will become hotter. This is based upon physical laws which cannot be controverted, and accounts for the sense of increased heat, withoiit in any way aftecting the question of increased production of heat, by the metamorphosis of the alcohol. 5. That alcohol renders the hands and face red, hot, and swollen, is matter of common observation. 6. When alcohol is taken in a moderate state of dilution, it produces a sensation of heat in the mouth, throat, and stomach ; and, from what we know of the action of various stimulants to the mucous surface, it will increase the action of the surface if diluted, or it ■will arrest the action if it be concentrated, and in this respect its action is doubtless analogous to that of warm or hot water. 7. It lessens excretion of water by the kidneys. This has been as- serted by all experimenters, as Vierordt, Bocker, Hammond, and Smith; and in the author's recent experiments in prisons, he found the urine was reduced twenty ounces per day on the average of three days by two ounces of alcohol daily, in four prisoners working the treadwheel, and who for months had not taken alcohol. Some alcohols, as gin, increase the action of the kidneys, at least, for a time; but that action is not due to the alcohol. When alcohol ajypears to do so, it is by lessening the power of the sphincters. 8. It lessens the excretion of urea by the kidneys. This also has been universally admitted, and will follow from the diminished excretion of urine. 9. It lessens the excretion of chloride of sodium in proportion to the diminution in the quantity of urine. 10. It lessens the excretion of faces, as has been observed by all ex- perimenters, and particularly by Hammond and the author; and this is apparently due to 1 he Avithdi-awal of fluid from the bowel; for when the fffices are passed, they are imusually hard, and passed with some difficulty. 11. If there be less fluid emitted under the action of alcohol by the skin, kidneys and bowels, and the quantity of fluid introduced into the body be not lessened, does it not follow that alcohol has the power of causing the retention of an increased quantity of fluid in the tissues, and thus of increased bullc and weight ? What is meant by the popular obsen-ation that a person rapidly fed up and bloated by alcohol has not sound fat, but that the rapidity -vvith which it often passes away proves that the bulk is chiefly due to fluid ? 12. These effects occur during a limited period, since the period of