253 LIUYNX AND TBACHEA. forwards, seized with a polypus forceps, guided aloug the wire, and wrenched off The patient spat the tumour into his hand. It measured three and one eighth inches in length, four and three quarters inches round at its broad end, and three inches round at the centre. THE LAKYNX AND TEACHEA. The Laryngoscope. CnuHCH, Dr. "W. H.—Description mid tise of the Laryngoscope. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 173. This is a paper read before the Academy of Medicine, March 6th, i860. J Geehaedt, C, and Eoth, P.—On iSy^Mitic Diseases of the Larynx. Virchow's Archiv f. path. Anat. lind Phys., vol. xxi, part i; second series, vol. i, part i, pp. 7—44. An account of various affections of the larynx, observed by the authors with the laryngoscope in persons affected wath constitutional syphilis. In the earlier stages of this cachexy condyloma is the commonest affection. AVaxkee, T. J.—JReport of a case of Polypoid Growth of the Larynx, diagnosed and removed hy aid of the Laryngoscope. Lancet, Nov. 9th, p. 445. Laryngeal Pneumatocele and Fistula. Htjtchinsok.—Case of Perforation of the Larynx, and formation of a circmnscrihed Pnetmatocele in tlie Neck. Med. Times and Gaz., March 30th, p. 329. A fluctuating, tympanitic swelling, the size of a pigeon's egg, over the lower part of the larynx and front of the trachea, disappearing on compression, and refilling when the patient coughed. EnicitSEif. — 'Extensive Wound of the Larynx and Nech, followed hy an Aerial Fistula. Lancet, Dec. 7th, p. 547. 'Tracheotomy. Maetim,Dr. O.—On Tracheotomy. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. in. No. 8, p. 203. A third and very voluminous report of the recent literature of this operation. The first and second reports appeared in Jahrb., vol. 98, p. 102 ; and vol. 102, p. 73. MAryDEE.—A Word on Tracheotomy. Lancet, March i6th, p. 263. The trachea having been incised, the point of a double hook is to be inserted through the incision into the windpipe, which is to be raised and fixed. The clasp being slipped, tlie halves of the hoolc separate and widen the slit ui the trachea; this done, the tube may be passed with ease and the hook withdrawn. Whilst the inner tube is removed for