EEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 170 the external layer of cortical structure soft, and separating in patches with the detached pia mater; or it may he firm, when the internal layer is softer tlian in liealth. The deptli of the cortical structure is shallow, and its colour so pale that it sometimes is difficult to distinguish it from the fibrous structure. The white bands have disappeared, and the cut surface presents a uniform, dirty white appearance. Speaking of general paralysis, Sutherland affirms that the loss of power results partly from pressure of effused fluid, and not only from atrophy and disintegration of nerve-substance. With regard to the thoracic and abdominal viscera, the chief facts stated are that in 42 autopsies the heart was found diseased in .34, and the kidneys were granular, marbled, and mottled in 27. As to treatment, Sutherland counsels in acute mania sufficient doses of opium, not heroic, or some other sedative. Muscular fatigue in some cases, and ale at bedtime in others, have proved eflectual in procuring sleep. Food is to be frequently administered. Chloroform is sometimes of service. Warm baths are often useful. In acute dementia the douche produces sometimes striking beneficial eflfects, but a generous diet, tonics and sti- mulants, with minute doses of opium, are also requisite. Cases of acute melancholia require the diligent administration of food, the repugnance to which may sometimes be overcome by inhaling etlier. In the acute stage of the paralysis of the insane a vegetable diet and active purgatives are requisite, but not often C.C. or leeches. Bichloride of mercury with bark is a useful means of controlling the chronic meningeal inflam- mation which is so commonly present. In the later stages of mania tonics are always necessary, and generally suitable remedies must be adminis- tered, according to the existing condition. The possible dependence of mania upon some eccentric irritation should not be forgotten; a striking illustration of this connection is related. Directions as to moral treatment conclude the course. SiBBALD, J.—The Cottage System and Gheet. Journ. of Mental Science, April, 1861. Sibbald, from his visit to Gheel, was led to the conclusion that two classes of cases more than any other derive benefit from this system. One class comprises the milder forms of acute mania, the other consists of partially demented persons. The most fruitful cause of the present defects of Gheel appears attributable to the mistake of sending there unsuitable cases, who require more care and attention than can be bestowed upon them. No injurious eff'ect seems to be produced on the inhabitants themselves by consorting continually with 'the insane. Browne, W. A. F.—Endemic Deyeneratioii. Journ. of Mental Science, April, 1861. Browne describes the state of nine children, the ofi'spring of healthy parents, of whom two were not viable, one died in infancy, one was hydrocephalic, a dwarf and idiot, and died at the age of twenty-one, while four living are hydrocephalic, dwarfs, idiots, distorted, puny, and diseased, and one only is healthy, robust, and intelligent. They inhabit the island of lona, are in great poverty, but not circumstanced very differently from their neighbours, who are not similarly aflected, Browne adds reflections on pellagra, cretinism, &c.