UEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICIXE. 74 various agents, bucU as oxygen, peroxide of hydrogen, and certain of these had promised, at first, useful results, but in the end they had failed from physical reasons. _ The last metliod was described under the term " artificial circula- tion." This method was invented by the author, and named by him. It consisted in an attempt to suj)plement the forcing power of the heart for a short time by mechanical means, so as to cnal)le him to drive or draw a stream of blood over the pulmonic circuit. The various contrivances and instruments employed in tliis endeavour were par- ticularised, the difHculties of the pursuit explained, and the failures accounted for. In one experiment it was shown that, when artificial circulation was established in an animal, the blood traversed the lungs, made its way afterwards over the arterial channels, and repro- duced muscular action, and even sensibility. As yet, however, the operation for artificial circulation was too formidable to be used in the human subject; it was, nevertheless, the point to which attention should be specially directed. Dr. Richardson's conclusions were as follows:—In cases of suspended animation, if there is the merest attempt at breathing, place the patient in a very warm atmosphere, but do not meddle further ; if the respiration has quite ceased, set it up artificially, u.sing warm air for inflation, and continue this for at least fifteen minutes, for the heart may not have ceased to beat, and if not, the operation will often succeed. Avoid galvanism; it is a deceptive and dangerous remedy. The great desideratum is an improved method of producing artificial respiration, and so of supplementing the heart. Jennings, J. C. S.—Galvanism, Sfc, versus the "Beady Method." Brit. Med. Journ., March pth, p. 265. (2.).—The Treatment of Apncea. Brit. Med. Assoc., Canterbiiry, 1861, and Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 14th, p. 278. In the first paper the author recommends mouth-to-mouth inflation of the lungs, and galvanism, applying one wire to the side of the neck, the other to the region of the heart. In the second much stress is laid on the fatal efi'ects of the hot bath when applied to the treatment of apnoea in drowned persons. Experiments conducted on animals showed that where the hot bath had been used the liuigs were much darker and more congested than Avhen other remedial means had been employed. In the apnoea of stillborn children the "ready method" failed in four cases; in each case, however, direct inflation of the lungs from mouth to mouth, alternating with compression of the thorax, was ultimately successful. Immersion of the lower part of the body in a warm bath is recommended as a useful adjunct. Q-AERAWAT, EnwAUD.—Ca^e of Resuscitation. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 28th, p. 330. The "ready method" of Dr. Marshall Hall, alternated with the hot bath and the sprinkling of cold water on face and chest, proved effectual in resuscitating an infant apparently bom dead, J