IIG IlEPORT O.N TIIK l.Nsri'iLTKS 01' MEDICINK. Wliilst iimiiitiiiiiing, generally, lluifc botli organic and inorganic sub- stances obey the same laws in regard to elasticity, the author yet admits, with Volkmann, who has raised objections to this view (see 'Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 130), that this parallelism ceases beyond a certain limit, which, ho finds, is reached when degrees of traction are employed which effect a greater change in the form of organic than in that of inorganic bodies. ValentiNj G.—Contrilntions io our knowledge of the Hijhernalion oj Marmots. Ninth srction. Pulse and Blood-pressure. Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vii, part i, i860, p. 30. Canst., vol. i, p. 128. The author says that in marmots blood-pressure begins to rise during •/nspiration. This fact, which agrees with Einbrodt's statements (see p. 26), is referred to the effect of aeration of the blood in increasing the heart's action, so as more than to compensate the lowering effect of the chest movement. Batjde;ment.— Observations on the o'elations existinr/ between the Thoracic Development, the Conformation, and the ap)titudes for Fatteninc/, oj the different races of Cattle.—Comptes rendus, i86r, Feb. iith, p. 23 5; March ist, p. 508. In order to test the value of a common opinion, that the volume of the chest is the surest indication of an animal's capability of fattening, the author made a series of observations on 102 oxen, of various breeds. Before being slaughtered each animal was weighed, the girth of its chest, the height to the withers, and its length, ascertained. After death the weights of the four quarters, of the visceral fat, and of the lungs and heart, were severally determined. The author (i) confirms the belief that thoracic development is a measure of the assimilating power and weight of the animal. (2) As the animal gains in weight its chest attains a bulk pro- portionall}'' greater than the increase in length and height of the trunk. (3) The development of the trunk generally is determined by that of the chest. (4) The weight of the animal increases in proportion to the size of the chest. (5) Short-legged cattle, with jarge, round chests, make most flesh. Thus it seems that the total weight and the proportion of flesh to fat are determined b}"^ the thoracic bulk, the length and rotundity of the trunk, and short stature. To ascertain the relation existing between the volume of the thorax and that of the lungs, the latter were weighed directly after death, and it was found that—(i) thoracic development is no measure of that of the lungs. (2) For a given live weight, the volume of the lungs is greater the higher the animal stands and the younger it is. (3) In beasts fairly comparable in size and otherwise the relative weight of the lungs diminishes as the thoracic girth increases. (4) In cattle of the same race the lungs weigh relatively least in individuals giving the highest live weight. (5) In races of rapid growth the lungs weigh, abso- lutely and relatively, less than in less precocious species.