BONES. 265 Simple and Oanceroiis Tumours of Bone. Scnuu, Fr.—Extirpation of the Scapula on account of Osleo-carcinoma. "Wieu. Med. "Wchnschr., 36, i8(5o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, No. 7, p. 78. A semi-globulav tumour, the size of an ostrich's egg, formed, in five months, on the right shoulder-blade of a previously healthy girl, eight years old. It was boimded above by a line drawn from the acromion to the middle of the side of the neck, at its inner side by the inner edge of the scapula, and at its outer side by the outer border of this bone. It sent a process into the armpit. Schuh exposed the tumour thoroughly by a crucial incision in the integuments, and severed the neck of the scapula with a chain-saw. The cut surface of the bone being diseased, several slices were removed with forceps, and in doing this the joint was opened and the head of the humerus was exposed. On the twenty-first day after the operation the wound was healed. BYX'K.—IJ.vtirpation of a Peripheral Enchondroma oftlie Bight Shoulder- Hade, of the size of a child's head. Deutsche Klinik, 50, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii. No. 7, p. 79. Tliis tumour sprang from the infra-spinous fossa. Beck laid it bare by a crucial incision, severed its attachment to the dorsum of the scapula with a chain-saw, cutting from below upwards to the spine parallel to the surface of the bone, and then completely detached it by cutting it across at the spine with a common saw. In five weeks the patient, a ^voman, left the hospital, and at one year and a half afterwards con- tinued free from a return of the growth, the cartilaginoid characters of which were well marked. Taget.—Medullar!/ Cancer of the Tihia ; amputation; recovery ; death subsegnently. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 88. Cancer of the Femur,- death in about five months. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 88. ^K^^^CE.—Medullary Cancer of the Filula; amputation; recoveru. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 88. ^oc^.— Osteo-cysto-Sarcoma of the Head of the Tibia; mnputation; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June ist, p. 579. CuRLiXG.—7¥erfe£«ry Cancer in the upper part of the Filula; amputa- tion. Med. Tunes and Gaz., May 18th, p. 521. ^ Wood, J. "R.—Malignant Disease of tlie Periosteum. Amer. Med Times, May 18th, p. 327. femuJ.''"^ ^""^ encephaloid cancer originating in the periosteum of the Exostoses. ^^^.l^^.-.^^o'^osis on the Temporal Bone. Lancet June 00th ti rt.fi Of the ivory kind, the size ot a walnut. It w2 mZ^d vvith"bon. phers, and convalescence took place in a month