201 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. AcKmmxv.—Cerebral Ciirulatioti in Asphyxia. Arcli, f. Patli. Anat., torn. XV, p. 401. Lond. Med. Rev., May, 1861. Ackerman induced asphvxia in an animal into whose cranium lie bad inserted, after trephining, a piece of glass. The brain was invariably in a state of ansemia during asphyxia,-especially when the head was raised above the trunk. Smith, A.—On the Treatment of Dyspnoea. Amer. Med. Times, March 30th. Smith recommends in severe cases inhalation of oxygen or prot- oxide of nitrogen. In protracted cases the diet should be animal, and the compensatory action of the skin and lungs brought into play. Oppolzeb.—On Pulmonary (Edema. Allgera. Wiener Med. Ztg., i860. Nos. 36, 38. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 209. Oppolzer locates this effusion in the interstices of the air-cells. The acute form is very dangerous, and may cause death in a few minutes. To diagnose it correctly one must consider, not only the apparent symptoms, but the kind of diseases in which we are taught by experience that pul- monary cedema is most frequent. These are pneumonia, bronchitis, acute exanthemata, cardiac disease, and morbus Brightii. Dyspncea, cyanosis, loud rhonchi, are the signs which generally announce pulmo- nary oedema. Venesection, emetics, drastic purges, or diuretics, are the remedies advised. BiERMEK, Ant.—On the Theory and Anatomy of Bronchial Dilatation. Virch. Arch., xix, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 180. Biermer discusses separately the influence of the probable causes, of this disorder. Of the mechanical, he thinks that the outward pressure of stagnating secretion, and increased pressure of the air in the tubes, are not of themselves sufHcieut to cause dilatation. Inspiratory efforts in non-expansible states of the lung, and extra-bronchial traction of the con- densed pulmonary tissue, he regards as more efficient. Of the textural clianges produced by mal-nutrition, he considers successively those of the bronchi, pulmonary tissue, and pleura, but does not decide which of these has most to do in causing dilatation. In eighteen of fifty-four cases the pulmonary tissue was healthy, but pleural adhesions existed. He seems inclined to attribute to these some causative influence, but if this be not admitted, the bronchiektasis was independent. Traube.—On the Penetration of fine Carbonaceous Particles into the interior of the Respiratory Organs. Deutsche Klinik, 49, 50, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 299. Traube gives in detail the case of a man, aged fifty-four, who had been exposed for twelve years till tlie last three months to the dust of charcoal, and had often observed that his sputa were black. In his expectoration were found numerous free, black particles, of very irregular, angular shape, and sometimes of large size. Some of these presented structural peculiarities identifying them with the wood of Pinus sihesf. Occasionally the black particles were contained in pulmonary epithelial particles. At the autopsy the lungs M'ere found free from structural lesion, but almost