861 DISEASES OP WOMEN. Go YON.—Inversion of the Uterus of twenty years' duration without alteration of health. Journ. de Med. et Chir. prat., Feb., 1861. Roberts, Dr. D. L.—Procidentia Uteri from Perineal Laceration of many years' standing; operation; perfect cure. Dubl. Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861, p, 19. APFECTIONS OP CERVIX UTERI. Ellis, Robert.—Phases of the Uterine Ulcer. Lancet, July 6th and 27th, Aug. 24th, Nov. 2nd and pth, 1861. The author describes—(i) The diphtheritic ulcer, in which tbere are small, -whitish, smooth and shining patches of different and irregular forms. The affection is very intractable; mild, local treatment is not successful. The Potassa cum Calce or the electric cautery are effectual, the constitutional fault present having been attended to. (2) The fungous ulcer, occurring chiefly in women who have been pregnant. It is depend- ent, the author believes, on fatty degeneration, with arrest of the invo- lution process after parturition. At first the acid nitrate of mercury is recommended for the cure of this form of ulcer, and afterwards the Potassa cum Calce or the electric cautery. (3) The inflamed ulcer, irri- table, red, with small granulations hot and tender to touch, resting on a basis also red, swelled, hard and sensitive. Alteratives, leeches, rest, emollient injections and diet at first, and afterwards recourse to caustics, are recommended. (4) The indolent ulcer, the most common. Stimulants are here to be given internally, also sesquichloride of iron, with nitro- muriatic acid; quinine and strychnia. The local treatment consists in application, at first, of nitrate of silver; at a later period, of Liquor Potassse. (5) The senile ulcer, an intractable, often small ulcer, not often seen under the age of fifty, accompanied with much sympathetic disturbance, though not much pain. The strongest caustics are necessary for the cure. The author, in conclusion, states that his object is to show that a prac- tical value will be found to lie in a more careful diagnosis of the varied phases of the uterine ulcer. Charriek.—On Ulcers of the Cervix Uteri and on Leucorrhcea in Preg- nant Women. Bull, de Ther., Jan., 1861, p. 54. Schmidt, vol. in, p. 188. The author records the results of his observations on 100 pregnant women, some of whom were affected with leucorrhcea and ulceration. Leucorrhcea is frequently present in pregnant women who are affected with chloro-ansemia. The leucorrhcea present under these circumstances produces ulcerations. Of 100 pregnant women examined at the eighth month, 56 had leucorrhcea, and 46 of these had ulcerations; of 44 who had no leucorrhcea at that time, 16 had leucorrhcea at the ninth month, and 10 of these ulcerations. That the ulcerations are caused by the leucorrhcea is shown by the position of the ulcers, by the frequent pre- sence of erythematous swelling of the upper parts of the thighs, and by the acid character of the secretions. The indications are to improve the strenorth and general health of the patient; local measures are obiec- tionable. *'