GENEEAL SYSTEM. 127 of the respiratory organs are noticed under tbe heads of—(i) extensive and severe congestion ; (2) pneumonia and pleuro-pneuraonia ; (3) deposit of tubercles. Some epidemics are distinguished by a remarkable liability to pneumonia. In February, 1853, there were twenty-four attacks of this kind out of twenty-eight admissions, and in March, twenty-four out of fifty. These compUcatious were also most severe, extensive, and cxceed- ino-ly rapid in their development. In some instances the action of the heart is impaired, and stimulants are required; in others, mild antiphlo- "■istics, with Acet. Plumbi. Rapid tuberculization occurs in the predis- posed'as a sequel of typhus. The paper closes with an estimation of the practical value of the clinical facts observed in typhus. Brady, T.—Medical Report of the Cork Street Fever Hospital. Dublin Med. Press, April 3rd. Brady states that the type of febrile diseases has been, since 1847, remarkably uniform, but very different from that which prevailed for many years previous to the famine and fever period. The same forms of disease occur, but of a low, asthenic character, with moderate or weak reaction. Previous bad sanitary conditions modify these diseases un- favorably. Alcoholic treatment, if at all freely employed, causes dete- rioration. Thierfelder.—On Changes in the Temperature during Typhoid Fever. Med. Times and Gaz., July 13th. The temperature rises gradually for tUe first three or five days. If it rises for five days, it will not fall before the seventeenth day. The stage of maximum heat lasts from one to four and a half weeks, with slight remissions in the middle of the second or third week. The amount of the daily remissions is very different, and an important means for judging the violence of the fever, as it is inversely proportional to the latter. If the morning remission is only 1° Fahr., the prognosis is bad. The tempera- ture may rise before death to 109° Fahr. Return to the normal tempera- ture never occurs suddenly. It is sometimes continuous, but oftener an increase of the matutinal remission. Such fall of temperature mostly occurs on the seventeenth, but sometimes on the twenty-first, twenty- fourth, twelfth, or thirteenth. Uhle.—On the course of Typhoid Fever in Aged Perso7is. Med. Times and Gaz., July 13th. The temperature in them is mostly lower, the stage of maximum heat is short, that of return to the normal heat protracted. Headache, delirium, sopor, &c., are usually absent; but there is great tremor and debility. The intestinal ulcers are slow in healing. WuNDERLicH.—On the Changes of Temperature in Typhoid Fever, Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 28th. Wiiuderlich believes that there are two perfectly distinct stages of the disease, which may be recognised by means of the thermometer. In the first exudation takes place, in the second eUmination of the morbid matter and healing. The former extends, on an average, over two weeks, but may be shorter in mild and longer in severe cases. The latter varies