417 OEGANIO ACIDS. mvEKER.—Researches on the transformation of the Arsenic emploxjedin the Manufacture of Glass. Pappenheim, part ii, 1861, p. 68. _ This inquiry Avas uudertakeu at the suggestion of Dr. Pappenheim, with reference entirely to the question whether or not the arsenic largely employed in the manufacture of some kinds of glass, assumes any form likely to be injurious to the public health. The author analysed the glass, the scum (consisting mainly of sulphate of soda, sand and carbon), the deposit in the flue, the dust of the glass-house, the snow in the neigh- bourhood, &c. His method was as follows :—The arsenic was in every case separated as sulphuret; the precipitate was dissolved in weak ani- monia and evaporated ; the residue was treated with fuming nitric acid, and again evaporated; the product again dissolved in ammonia, and the solution treated with ammonio-chloride of magnesium. The resulting crys- talline precipitate (AmO,2MgO,As05 + lallO) contains 39-17 per cent, of metallic arsenic. The results were as follows :—In the glass-works investigated, arsenic was employed in the proportion of f tli per cent., of which quantity the analysis showed that ith was retained in the glass, and iths was either removed with the scum or sublimed. In the scum arsenic exists in a soluble form (arsenite of soda), in the deposit from the flue in an insoluble state (arsenite of iron). It was found that no arsenic was contained either in the snow or water in the neighbourhood. Mercurij, PoLAK.—On the employment of Mercury in Persia as a remedy against Syphilis. Wien. Med. Wchnschr., No. 36. The author gives the following as the conclusions to which he was led by observations made during his nine years' practice in Persia. Mercury can be given in much larger quantity and for a longer time without affecting the mouth than in temperate climates. Tlie natives use calomel as a universal remedy, and take it in enormous doses, even for the most trifling ailments; but no bad results, either direct or remote, are observed from its use. As a remedy against syphilis it is administered by inhala- tion. For this purpose a lozenge containing two drachms of cinnabar is added twice a day to the moist tobacco usually smoked in the Narghile. The author found that in this way the constitution is aifected more rapidly than in any other. He believes that the cure is radical, founding that belief on the observation that in Persia the children of infected persons who have been thoroughly mercurialized are healthy. ORGANIC ACIDS. Oxalic Acid. LiTTLEJOHN.—Case of criminal Poisoning with Oxalic Acid, in which Perforation of the Stomach took place. Edin. Med. Journ,, July, P- i3- An unmarried woman administered to her infant, twelve days old, an undetermined quantity of oxalic acid ; death took place in less than an hour, but whether immediately or at what interval of time could