228 hepout on puactical medicine. viscera nnd peritoneum also exei'cise an influence througli Uie nervous system upon the local deposit of pigment in the skin. (7) Tliat in disease of the supra-renal capsules, the bronzing of the skin, whetiier swarthy or yellow, is partly nervous, and due to the direct or indirect influence of the capsules on the kidneys and nervous system ; partly hrcmic, and in so far, due to the morbid influence of "dyscrasic" blood. (8) That pigmentary changes in the skin of both whites and blacks may be the result of morbid causes, and yet may remain after the operation of the causes have ceased, and assume a physiological character. (9) That although local morbid pigmentation of the skin may occur exclu- sively from local causes, or the influence of the nervous system, in the majority of cases there is a morbid condition of the blood. (10) That the morbid conditions of the blood associated most commonly with pig- mentary changes arc characterised by those changes in the blood-cor- puscles (leukrcmia, ieucocytosis) which are observed in cachectic states of a constitutional character (pregnancy, chlorosis, tertiary syphilis, chrouic rheumatism, cancer, &c.), or which are intimately connected with "dys- crasic," visceral, or glandular diseases (of the spleen, supra-renal capsules, lymphatic glands). (11) That the tendency to discoloration increases {rceteris paribus) with age after a certain period of life. (12) That the morbid pigment deposits proper, as distinguished from masses of altered blood-corpuscles; are carbonaceous excretions, and are often vicarious with the suspension or imperfect elimination of other carbonaceous excretions, as the carbonic and lactic acids, and the pigment constituents of both the in-ine and bile ; and are consequently associated with morbid states of assimilation, as well as of elimination (througb the skin, lungs, liver, kidneys). (13) That among the morbid states of assimilation, the rheu- matic and gouty, are specially to be classed, as well as those coincident with ansemia. - * Day, Y.—On Elephantiasis, or Cochin leg. J^adras Quart. J. Med. Sci., No. I. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. In 93 per cent., of all cases, the lower limb was diseased. In all there was a peculiar fever, resembling a quotidian, but uncontrolled by quinine. During each attack of fever the local swelling generally becomes more marked, and it may be hot and throbbing or only itching. There is generally a hardened reddish or dusky line along the course of the ab- sorbents between the local effusion and the glands, one of which is mostly enlarged and painful, but does not suppurate. Tonics with Hyd. Bichl. and opium are useful, and removal to an unafl'ectcd locality essential. IIebra.—0?( the Applicatio7i of Sulphur in Skin Diseases. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 47, 48, i860. . . , , , HM Ilebra thinks the internal administration of sulphur quite useless. 1 lie external he regards as a kind of irritant, causing hypercemia of the skin, and more rapid formation of epidermis. The purer the sulphur, the milder is its action, preparations containing selenium, arsenic, sulphurous acid, act more irritatinglv. In acute recent inflammations sulphur is not to be used, only in the more chronic. In itch he prefers Viemmgkx s sulphuret of lime solution, or sulphur ointments and soaps. In prurigo he also prefers Vlemingkx's solution followed by a warm bath and simple