IIEPORT ON 'J'lIE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Hammond, \V. .\.— 0n1h(: Nulvitivr. Vahin mid Phi/aiolofiical E[fccl>s of Albiimnt, kil(irc]i,(tnd Gum. Lo Speriiiiciitale,"p. i68. CauHt., vol. i, p. 226. The following observations -were made by the authoi- upon hiinself— (i) "When albumen was employed as the sole article of nounsliment, it appeared after live or six diiys in the urine. The animal heat sank, emaciation set in, the proportion of albumen and fibrin in the blood increased, as did the azotized ingredients of the urine. In twelve days diarrluiM and piiins in the abdomen and head forbade the continuance'of the experiments. (2) SUirch formed for ten day.s the only aliment. The body-warmth rose, sugar was discharged with the urine, in which the nitrogenous substances Avere nuich dimini.shed, the albuminous sub- stances of the blood were reduced, whilst its non-azotized constituents were augmented. The body lost far more weight than when albumen was the ouly food, and there was much headache and pyrosis, with weakness. (3) Gum could be continued alone for only four days, on account of great loss of weight and strength, reduction of temperature, and derangement of every fimctiou. He considers gum to be unassimilable. VoiT, C.—Researches on the Influence of Salt, Coffee, and Exercise on Tissue-change. 8vo, Munich, i860. Canst., vol. i, pp. 149, 220. The author's observations on the etfects of saJt given to a dog kept on a unifoi-m meat diet, led to the following results—(i) If the tissues are not already saturated Avith this substance, a certain quantity of it is retained in the organism ; but if they are saturated, a greater quantity than that administered is discharged by the kidneys, which, in the dog, are the only excretory channels. (2) Salt increases the oxydation of the systemic albumen, and the excretion of urea. (3) Even if drink be withheld, the urine becomes more abundant. The experiments with coffee were made on a dog and on frogs. In the dog its assimilation, instead of diminishing the excretion of urea, rather increased it. In the frogs catfein first enhanced and afterwards lowered nervous excitability. The pupils and the.vessels were considerably dilated; and the cutaneous capillaries, laden with blood, imparted a rose-colour to the surface. Exercise (mensurable, because taken on the treadmill) was found in dogs considerably to increase the consumption of the fat, but hardly, if at all, to affect that of the albumen, in the system. The source of animal power, therefore, which, according to these observations, does not lie in the transformation of albumen, is supposed by the author to be explained by the correlation of physical forces—animal electricity being transmuted into mechanical work. MoSLBR, Fbed., M.D.— On the Influence of Water on the Metamorj)hosis of flatter. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 30th, p. 565. In a letter dated Giessen, Oct. 2 5th, the German correspondent of the ' Med. Times and Gaz.' gives the following account of JDr. Hosier's experiments on the influence of common drinking-water on the human body :— The experiments, he says, were made on a number of men, women, and chilcb-eu; in one series the food and the general mode of living