REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIKE. 158 Friedberg's conclusions are—(i) The two symptoms in question indi- cate an nffection of the varolian criis cerebelli mostly combined with one of the hemisplieres of the cerebellum on the same side ; (2) it is not shown that the above symptoms appear when the cerebellar hemisphere alone is affected ; (3) nor are the symptoms constant in cases of disease of the hemisphere and of its crus ; (4) when other symptoms of cerebral irritation are present, the seat of the irritating cerebellar affection may be located on tliat side towards which the curve of the circular movement is directed, or from which the rotation starts; (5) "when other symptoms of cerebral irritation are present we may look for the seat of a paralysing affection of the cerebellar hemisphere and its varolian crus on that side from which the curve of the circular movement starts, or to which the rotation of the body is directed. Franque, V.—O71 Hysterical Convulsions. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 5, i860. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 110, p. 30. From examination of seventy-three patients, Franque maintains that the convulsive attacks are always occasioned by determinate external causes, that they always set out from a determinate point, and follow a determinate direction, which is *dependent on the physical and psychical idiosyncrasy of tlie patient. More than half were induced by psychical influences, the remainder by bodily affections. Tardieu.— On the Preventive Treatment of Hydrophobia. Ann. de Th^rap., 1861, p. 286. Tardieu insists on the immediate use of the actual cautery as the sole reliable means of preventing the risk of fatal mischief. Gull, W.—On Paralysis of the Loioer Extremities consequent upon dis- ease of the bladder and Kidneys {Urinary Paraplegia). Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vii, 1861. Gull maintains that the symptoms of urinary affection are not the cause, but the consequence, of commencing disease in the nervous centre, just as gastric symptoms are often the first indication of cerebral disease. He insists strongly on the dependence of the normal functions of the sympa- thetic on the integrity of the spinal system. He further charges writers on the subject with accepting the mere muscular weakness often asso- ciated with prostatic and vesical disease for partial p.iraplegia. On repeat- ing Brown-Se'quard's experiments, Gull was unable to produce any con- traction of the spinal vessels, which, indeed, are very scanty, by irritating the renal nerves, nor did paralysis ensue in the lower limb corresponding to that side on which the kidney was irritated or the supra-renal capsule removed. The recorded cases of urinary paraplegia show, in Gull's opinion, that it is the inflammatory condition of the affected organs which leads to paralysis, and not mere irritation. This inflammatory condition extends through continuous structures to the cord itself, and causes the paralysis. EcHEVERRiA, G.—What is Uefex Paraplegia? Amer. Med. Times, July 20th. Echeverria, admitting that contraction of the blood-vessels of the cord