ClKCLLATOlti: SYSTJiif. 181 Spokek.—The Abortive Treatment of External Acute Fhlebitis by ex- ternal apjjlication of Tinct. lodinii, repeated every three hours. Med. Ztg. Russlauds, 1859, Nos. 49, ,50. Canst. Jaliresb., vol. hi, p. 189. Lancereaux.—Pyelitis, Benal Phlebitis, Abscess of the Bight Kidney ; Purulent Infection, Albumen in the Urine. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860, No. 37. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 189. lioTTO.—New mode of curing Varicose Veins. (Pressure is applied to the vein in two spots). Annali Univ. de Med., Milan0, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p, 192. DuscH.—Thrombosis of the Sinuses of the Dura Mater. Zeitschr. f. ration. Med., ser. 3, vol. vii, No. 2. Brit. Med. Journ., April 6th. Duscb concludes, from his inquiries, that coagulation of the blood in the sinuses maybe due to propagation of a coagulum from the neighbour- ing veins in cases of caries, necrosis, and wounds of the cranium, and of extravasations of blood into the substance of the brain ; or it may be owing to any cause, either of a local or general nature, which impedes the circulation of blood through the sinuses, such as a feeble heart, ansemia, the compression of the sinuses by tumours. The diagnosis is difficult during life, but the lesion may be suspected when cerebral symptoms supervene in a feeble infant upon an attack of profuse diarrhoea, and there is at the same time bulging of the fontanelles and distension of the jugular veins. Germaine.—On the Therapeutic Uses of Digitalis. Gaz. Hebdomad., vii, 42, 44, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., April 13th. Germaine does not believe that digitalis enfeebles the contractions of the heart, but, on the contrary, while it slows them it augments their force. He'thinks it is only a diuretic by its beneficial effect on the circulation. Trousseau.—On the use of Digitalis in large doses in the treatment of Menorrhagia. Gaz. des H6pit., 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Trousseau administers 5SS of a strong infusion (gj of the leaves to 3XXV of water) every half hour, ceasing the medicine as soon as signs of gastro- intestinal irritation appear. After ten doses in the case he relates the hsie- morrhage was arrested. Pfaff, E. R.—On the employment of Digitalis and its different prepa- rations in the treatment of Organic Disease of the Heart. Bullet. Gener. de Thcrap., Feb. 15th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Pfafl' states that digitalis contains two active principles, viz., digitaline and skaptine, which exert different kinds of action. The former, especially iu large doses, increases at first the activity of the heart, and then depresses it; while the latter first depresses the action of the venous and lymphatic absorbents, and of the glandular system in general, and afterwards excites them. Pfaff recommends the drug to be given in decreasing doses, dimin- ishing the amount as soon as its paralysing action on the heart is apparent. It ought not to be given in any form more than six to eight days; its calmative effect is often prolonged for five or eight weeks, and may be sus- 13