GENEBAL STSTE3I. 139 internal capillary tracts, but it will depend on the state of the respiration and circulation whether this increased amount of blood move slowly or rapidly. In the second the amount of blood in internal parts will be diminished. These changes in the circulation probably affect both the transposition of organic atoms and their oxydation. (2) Ludwig considers that the variations of evaporation and perspiration will affect the urine, and when its aqueous part is diminished cause further chemical changes in the retained matters. (3) The reflex effect of loss of heat must affect the oxydation of the body, which must increase if the tem- perature is maintained in spite of cooling. If the rate of cooling is di- minished the temperature of the blood will rise, unless the oxydation diminish. (4) Stimulation of the sensory nerves will influence the nervous centres, and through them the various internal organs. (5) Bathing affords a means of modifying the excitability of the cutaneous muscles, and consequently lessening the changes of the circulation thereby induced. DuscH, V.—Report of the Medical Policlinic at Heidelherg from 1857 to 18.59. ■'^rch. f. Wissensch. Heilk., vi, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., yol. 112, p. 171. Dusch states that pertussis prevailed twice epidemically, and gradually passed into measles. In many cases this transition was marked by the appearance of a measly exanthem, attended with conjunctivitis and coryza, which at first was neither severe nor extensive, and very transitory, scarcely excited general symptoms, and did not stop the progress of the hooping-cough. According as the latter became less prevalent the exan- them appeared in those children who had not been attacked by it, and became gradually more severe and extensive, was attended with a more profound feeling of illness, and finally passed into fully developed measles. Dusch coincides in Buhl's views as to the origin of miliary tuberculosis of the lungs from tuberculous bronchial glands. Report of the Public Health in Norvoaxj. Christiania, 1859, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 236. In the parish of Hvaloerne in 1857 there was an epidemic of quartan ague during August, the weather having been very hot during the two pre- vious months. Large doses of quinine, six to eight hours before the attack, were most effective. In children aged from seven to ten years the fever was especially obstinate. The causes of spedalskhed are described as tiie influence of the sea-air and of the bad hygienic conditions prevalent among the residents of the coast. Their dwellings are damp, low, dark, small, and dirty; their clothing is insufficient; the state of their skin neglected ; and their food wretched, scanty, and badly cooked. Here- ditary tendency and infection exert also some influence, but are not the essential causes. Improvement of the hygienic conditions of the popu- lation appears to be the most hopeful means of preventing the disease, recommendT'^"' " '"^^ instruction is much ^'"^ wLffs'/o ^rr'"\ ^^^'^"^ ^''^-^^ for 1859. Wien, ia6o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 248.