EEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' JfEDICINE. 51 chloroform nor etber Avas able to induce a BulBcient degree of narcosis. After tlio patient had inhaled a very large quantity of both of these soporificf) for about two hours, no ana'sthcsia liaviug been induced, encmata with a scruple of the extract of belladonna were adminis- tered. Somo time afterwards the patient appcai-cd to be in a state of deep intoxication, and herniotomy was then performed. The sopor re- sembled a deep and tranquil sleep ; the fuccAvas placid, the features calm, the respiration regular, tlie pulse good; neither spasms, contractions, nor paralytic symptoms being observed, and the only signs which ex- cited anxiety, were the excessive dilatation and immobility of the pupils and the absolute impossibility of rousing the patient. Neither the re- moval of the patient irom the bed to the operating table, nor the operation itself, induced any return to consciousness ; and it was not until twelve hours after the operation that the patient awoke. He had no recol- lection of anything w^bich had passed, and, with the exception of a slight irritation in the throat and dilatation of the pupils, all traces of the action of belladonna had disappeared. When he awoke (at three p.m., on a bright day) he believed it to be still night; but towards the evening of the same day the vision was entirely re-established. Pro- fessor Pitha thought that the anfesthesia was due to the combined action of the chloroform, ether, and belladonna ; and he recommends a mixture of atropine and chloroform to be administered for inducing anaesthesia in cases of chloroform refractaires. Wii/MSHUEST, John.—A neio AncBsthetic. Lancet, March 2nd, p. 227. The author recommends the employment of the 01. Terebinth, rect., which, he says, produces a calm, anaesthetic sleep, ■without deranging the action of the heart. Smith, Dr. Edwaud.—On tlie Detection and Use of Alcoliol. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. and and i6th. The following is a summary of the author's A^iews on the action of alcohol upon the system :— 1. It increases the force of the heart's action, as proved by the ful- ness and sharpness of the pulse, and by the pulsation at the temples, and in the small arteries of the hands as they lie upon the table, and the height to which the foot is jerked when, after taking a glass of spirit and water, we sit "with the legs crossed. 2. It determines the blood to the extremities and to the surface, the latter fact being proved by the increased redness of the hands and face, \vith which all are familiar. This Ave presume to be due to the first action. 3. It lessens, or tends to lessen, the action of the skin, as proved by tiie etfects of rum and alcohol in the experiments, by the state of skin in those with Avhom it has disagreed, Avhether in health or disease, and by the ordinary condition of the skin in persons Avho habitually drink much alcohol. The action of the skin^;^;- excellence is the ebmiuation of vapour, and Avhen this aclion is lessened the skin becomes dry. It is not aflirmed that the skin always becomes dry under the influence of alcohol ; but tliat it commonly does so, and that as such is its actiouj