336 KEPOKT ON JlIDWIFKIlVj KTC. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PELVIS. LiTZMANN.—On Osteo-inalakia. [This nppendix to Litzmann's work on the femnle pelvis, translated by Dr. Matthews Duncan, will be found in Ed. Med. Journ., Nov, and" Dec, 1861.] The first part contains an account of osteo-malakia generally ; the second, that of child-bearing women. Of 131 cases, 85 became ill during pregnancy or childbed. With the exception of four, all had already borne children before invasion of disease. The disease almost always began in the pelvis, and was frequently confined to this part. The lesion commences with characters of a local inflammatory irritation. All lowering influences appeared to favour its appearance—repeated pregnancy, nursing, low diet, &c. Influence of new pregnancies in already existing disease was unfavorable, as a rule. In fifteen cases the bones appeared to give way during labour. The results of and kind of labour in the cases in question are stated. In forty women the Csesarean section was performed. The uterus was ruptured in seven women, one of whom had been before a subject of Csesarean operation. The disease generally began with pains, chiefly situated in the sacrum and loins, or round the hips, but not confined thereto ; these pains, not seldom very severe ; the next symptom was usually alteration of the manner of loco- motion with a tendency on the part of the patient to sit down. Cramps were less frequent. The stature was generally diminished, but later on in the progress of the disease; the extent of the same in bad cases was a foot or more. Respiration was aflFected when the thoracic bones were implicated. When the disease was estabUshed fever was noticed, but not before. Breisky.—On Osteo-malakia at Gummersbach.—Prag. Viertel., 1861, 2, p- 73- The author paid a visit to Gummersbach to see Winckel's cases of osteo-malakia. He examined eight well-marked cases. The de- tailed results of these examinations are given. Two other cases, well marked, are also reported upon. The conclusions drawn are stated as follows :—Osteo-malakia affects women during the period of sexual vigour, primiparse rarely. Pains in the loins and extremities are the first symptoms, usually appearing during lying-in, and are not at first severe. The deformity in the pelvis is produced gradually. It becomes exacerbated after childbed, the deformity increasing after each labour. The patients are usually "fruitful." The position of the child is often changed; the walls of the uterus unusually thick. Pliability of the bones of the pelvis now and then, but by no means always, exists. In one case a woman was delivered naturally in whom extreme deformity existed. The cause of the great frequency of osteo-malakia in this place it was diflicult to detect. It was the practice to suckle the children a very long time. The children were healthy. There was no white sediment in the urine, but the patients suffered frequently from diarrhoea and gastric disturbances. A characteristic sign of the disease is a difficulty in walking, especially m abducting the leg.