224 ItKPORT OX PU.UTrCAL AfEDlClNR. WuNDKULlcil.—The Clinical differences, and the import of acute priinuriiij pernicious Jaundice. Arch. d. Ilcillc, Ileft .3, i860. Canst. Jalircsber., vol. iii, p. 248. Wunderlicli insists on the importance of attending to certain characters and tendencies of disease apart from any particular situation or grouping of symptoms. General affections, running a rapid course, with essentially pernicious character, he names acute tkerioid constitutional diseases. The common character of all such diseases is rapidity of progress to a fatal issue, and impossibility, except in rare cases, of arrest. The most constant symptom is an unusual sense of prostration. Such diseases may run their course without involving specially, or causing the destruction of any particular organ, or the reverse. Rouis.—Researches on Suppuration of the Liver, from observations mwle in the North of Africa. Paris, Bailliere, pp. 460. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 252. Rouis's work contains 156 cases of abscess in the liver. In 122 the right lobe was affected ; in only 3 the left alone ; in 23 the right and left; in 2 cases the right lobe and lob. spig., and in 7 all the lobes mentioned. In 103 cases there were 62 deaths, 39 complete, and 2 partial recoveries. In 17 cases the abscess opened through the abdominal parietes, in 15 into the bronchi, in 3 into the stomach, and in 4into the transverse colon. The youngest patient was twelve, the oldest seventy-three. Most cases occurred between the ages of twenty-three and twenty-seven in the military, and thirty to forty-five in the civil service. Trousseau.—Pathology and Treatment of Goitre with Protrusion of the Eyeballs. L'Union Me'd., 1S60, pp. 485, 500, 513. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. ptli. Trousseau maintains that the malady is entirely a nervous one. The palpitations, the enlarged thyroid, and the protruded eyeballs he regards as produced by local congestions, brought about by deranged nervous action. In the way of treatment, iodine and iron are disallowed, and abstraction of blood, drastic pui-gativcs, digitalis in large doses, and ice to the part are recommended. kVik-H.—On Goitre Exophthahnique. Gaz. Hebdom., Dec, i860. Aran believes this affection to consist of an irritable condition of the heart and arteries of the neck, on which dilatation with hypertrophy soon supervenes. This state, as well as the exophthalmos he ascribes to an affection of the sympathetic. Ice to the region of the heart, veratria and digitalis, pure air, and at a certain period perchloride of iron arc the means he advises. Klob.—Ow the Pathological Anatomy of the Pancreas. Oesterrh. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 33, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 36. Kiob thinks that primary disease of the pancreas is rare, but secondaiy, very common. The most frequent form is the result of obstruction in the portal circulation, which causes congestion and a state of chronic inflammation, issuing in an increased development of connective tissue,