439 OEGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. niulants, frictions to the spine, inhalation of weak ammonia, and strong cotree internally, were the remedies used. Recovery commeuced in tour hours. GuNTHER.—Poi«on% by Bitter Almonds. Varge's Ztscb., vol.xiv, part i, p. 17. Canst,, vol. v, p. 123. , . , ^ j A girl; set. 18, took two ounces of bitter almonds as a remedy against menorrhagia. While in the act of chewing them she staggered and fell. About half an hour after she was completely unconscious. The countenance was flushed, the conjunctivse were injected, the eyeballs fixed, and the pupils contracted. There was grinding of the teeth, trismus, and tonic, alternating with clonic, spasm of the extremities, intense dyspnoea with groaning, excessive pulsation of the carotids ; there was also profuse menorrhagia. Of the various remedies used, cold affusions seemed most useful; consciousness gradually returned, and recovery was complete iu three hours. Charge of Manslaughter against a Grocer for selling Drugs. Pharraac, vol. iii, p. 147, Aug., 1861. A grocer ignorantly dispensed essential oil of almonds instead of almond oil, in consequence of which an infant was poisoned. The grocer was acquitted. Poisoning by Hydrocyanic Acid and Cyanide of Potassium. Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. 386, 439, 535, 583, 616, 200. Ann. de Ther., p. 34. British Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 650. Barker. —Case of Poisoning by "Almond Flavour." Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 655. A child, vni. 6, took two teaspoonfuls of almond flavour. He was seen within five minutes of the accident, and was then prostrate and pale; the eyes were bright and glassy, the pupils dilated, the pulse small and quick, but he was able to swallow. A " brimming teaspoonful" of ipecacuanha was given immediately, and a second dose three minutes afterwards, which was followed by free vomiting. At the same time the cold affusion was employed perscveringly, and brandy and water was given at frequent inter- vals. Repeated vomiting took place; the smell of bitter almonds was at first strongly perceptible in the ejecta, but gradually disappeared. In half an hour all alarming symptoms had ceased. Bonnet.—On the Internal Administration of Chloroform. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 221. After various trials Avith mucilage, the author found that he could permanently suspend chloroform in an aqueous mixture by first gently agitating it with an equal quantity of glycerine. On adding water to the product, it is said that a clear liquid is obtained, in which the chloroform is apparently dissolved, and does not separate even when its quantity amounts to half the weight of the water. It is essential that the glycerine should be pure. Sansom.—On the action of Chloroform. Proceedings of Med. and Chir, Soc, Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i, p. 424.