95 QENITO-TOINABY STtSTEM. examination in the polarizing sacchnvometer some sugar is always lost. (^) Animal charcoal retains sugar in proportion to the amount of charcoal used. This sugar may he recovered hy washing with boiling water. (6) By Eobiquet's method of decolorizing with basic acetate of lead and ammonia, two thirds of the sugar may be lost. (7) Pettenkofer's test for sugar by means of cholic or glycocholic acid and sulphuric acid, is the most delicate known. Two thirds of a milligramme can be detected in a little distilled water, and the presence of a small amount of the colouring matter of m-ine does not affect the reaction. (8) Trommer's test with sulphate of copper and potash is capable of detecting one twentieth per cent, of sugar in urine ; but when very small quantities of sugar are in solution with muriate of ammonia or urea, the reduction of the oxide is not perceived. (9) Briicke's alcohol process was not found to be satisfactory, but his lead process furnished excellent results. The urine is precipitated first with neutral acetate of lead, then with basic acetate of lead, and lastly with ammonia. The ammoniacal precipitate contains the sugar, which is extracted by treating the precipitate with oxalic acid, or preferably with sulphuretted hydrogen. By Briicke's process one seventh of a grain of sugar, added to 200 cubic centimetres of urine, could be detected ; and two thirds of all the sugar added could be recovered. Moreover, the sugar is obtained free from salts, so that it can be fermented ; and free from colour, so that it can be examined in the saccharometer. In examining healthy urine by this process, the presence of sugar could be readily ascertained in 1000 cubic eentimfetres of urine. The sugar separated by Briicke's process from 1000 cubic centimetres of the urine of a healthy man was estimated by the reduction test to vary from i"4 to 2*2 grains; and in that of another healthy man, to vary from 2-3 to 3'0 grains. The sugar separated from 5000 cubic centimetres of the urine of one healthy man gave from seven to eight degrees of rotation in the sacharometer; and that of another healthy man, from ten to eleven degrees. The sugar extracted from 14,000 cubic centimetres of healthy urine yielded by fer- mentation I"8 grains of carbonic acid, together with a recognisable quan- tity of alcohol. These and other experiments fully confirmed Briicke's statement as to the habitual presence of sugar in healthy urine. Hence diabetes must be considered as an exaggeration of a healthy state, and not as a distinct and peculiar condition of the system. In health and in diabetes the same chemical changes seem to take place in the system; but the greater amount of change in the one case constitutes health, and the lesser amount in the other case constitutes diabetes. QiBB, Dr.—Crystals of Diabetic Stigar. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xji, The author says that when the urine is very rich in sugar, and contains but little urea and other salts, the characteristic form of diabetic crystal is obtained, namely, rhomboidal prisms, existing either in detached masses or in tufts ; the latter may partake of true arborescence. When such is the case, with a low power of the microscope, branches runnino- in various directions from a central stem are seen, and from these the crystals are observed to shoot in different directions. The branched form of crystallization varies very much, but it is one of the most beautiful