SUBJECTS OF GENEUAL INTEREST. 233 yellow fever, or cliolcra. Even a stringent quarantine proves in- sufficient to exclude undoubtedly contagious diseases, as smallpox and other exanthemata. Steadine. • c A substitute for hog's lard is prepared by dissolving grams of soda deprived of its COg by lime in 5SS of water, and adding the solution to 3I oz. of lard mixed gradually with 3 oz. of water. It is a whitish fatty compound, inodorous, insipid, and intermediate between cerate and lard. It is very permanent unless constantly exposed to the air. , Hanbury Smith, E.—Observations on Chlorate of Potassa. Amer. Med. Times, June 8th. . . Hanbury Smith has found this drug useful as a prophylactic in fevers, curative in furunculoid affections, and very effectual in certain cases of dementia, when all other means had been tried in vain, " speedily re- moving or diminishing the lividity, coldness, and sluggish movement, with a corresponding improvement in the health of both body and mind." In all cases of similar venosity, and in one of bfonchorrhcea, its effects have been very decided. Lee, C. a.—Retnarlcs on the Experiments of the late Prof. Tulley on the Effects of Chlorate of Potash. Amer. Med. Times, July 6th. TuUy regards the remedy as a pure reducing antiphlogistic or refrige- rant. In large doses it produces symptoms of more or less severe abdominal irritation and vomiting. Hutchinson, J.—Is Inherited Syphilis protective against subsequent Contagion? Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 21st. Hutchinson gives three cases, in none of which were there any consti- tutional symptoms, nor any proof that the chancres contracted were indurated (in two they certainly were not). The evidence goes to show that inherited syphilis, if severe, is protective. On the Hygiene of Habitations. Brit, and For, Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1861. The air of London contains 0*037 COg per volume, of Manchester from o'045 to o'o8 per cent, on a windy day, and o'i2 per cent, on a still day. In the latter town, especially, the atmosphere contains notable amounts of SOg and SO.j. The amount of organic matter in the air of close parts of Manchester was i grain in 8000 cub. in., on the high grounds north of the town there was only i grain in 200,000 cub. in. Some remarkable facts are mentioned, showing the much greater putres- cent tendency of animal matter in certain states of the atmosphere than in others, and similarly the bleaching power of the air varies greatly, irre- spectively of the season and time of day. The writer believes that periodical observations of what may be called the septicity of the air, that is to say, its power of exciting putrefaction, would lead to most important results as regards the causation of disease. He suggests using for this purpose solutions of urea or cane sugar containing a ferment, and observing at different times and places the length of time required for the in- duction of alkalinity or the development of CO.,. As to tiie morbific effects of septic contamination of the air he "cites Dr. Greeuhow's