DISEASES OF WOMEN. 385 in tlie General Lying-in Hospital from 1833 to 1858. The mortality on 5833 labours was 3*085 per cent. The author insists on the fact that much has been mixed up with puerperal fever which is foreign to it; that puerperal fever is a compound of acute specific diseases, local conditions, severe pain, with excess of reaction. The author contends that, after elimi- nating these the large majority of the cases in the hospital alluded to were attributable to erysipelas, and he draws the deduction that the poison of erysipelas is the cause of the phenomena witnessed, the slight laceration often occurring being the starting-point. A number of cases are related to prove the various positions taken up by the author. The following are some of the practical conclusions formed by the author:—Tiiat in the treatment attention has been directed aluiost entirely to the local conditions, to the neglect of the general blood-state ; that the saline treatment is rather injurious than beneficial, decidedly so where tympanitis exists, and the latter is increased by the former; that the ex- hibition of calomel is not followed by any definite good, but frequently induces uncontrollable diarrhoea, intestinal irritation, &c.; that the symptoms of puerperal fever frequently set in after, and seem to specially follow, the free action of purgatives; that constipation is the rule after haemorrhage, and is conservative; that the erysipelatous poison spends itself, as it were, upon the internal rather than the external tissues, its outward evidences being deficient, partly, perhaps, on account of retar- dation by haemorrhage, bleeding, &c., and that all lowering treatment, except at the earliest stage, is absolutely bad. PiHAN-DuFEiLLAY.—Contributions towards an account of the relations which subsist between Puerperal Fever and Epidemic Erysipelas. L'Un., Aug. 24th, 27th, Sep. 7th, 1861. The author adduces observations at the St. Louis Hospital in Paris to show that the two affections, puerperal fever and traumatic erysipelas, act one upon the other, and engender each other mutually. Eetzius, Prof.—Puerperal Erysipelas Phlegmonodes. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1861, p. 191. The disease was observed in the lying-in hospital at Stockholm in the spring of the year i860. The institution was at the time over-crowded, BO much so that due attention could not be paid to cleanliness. The disease assumed a very severe form. Von Franque.—Om Puerperal Fever. Wiirzb. Med. Zt., i860, p. 360. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 63. During the first half of i860, 188 women were delivered in the ob- stetric clinic, of whom forty-four had puerperal fever, and fourteen died ; nineteen others were taken to the St. Juhus Hospital, of whom seven died. Out of the 188 deliveries, twenty were terminated artificially ; five of the deaths belonged to those operated upon. Webeb.—On an Epide?nic of Puerperal Fever at Prague. Mon, f. Geb. Dec, 1860, p. 419.' The causes of the spreading of the disease were to be found in the over- crowded, imperfectly ventilated state of the hospital. Women were most likely to be affected who had lost much blood, during or after labour.