5 MANUALS^ GENBUAL TRKATISJiS, LECTUllES, ETC. I municate by tubes as in boue, aud that tlie yellow elastic tissue is tubular, thus fonniug a tubular, anastomosing, nutritive system, capable also of propagating morbid processes; but such anastomoses are be- lieved by the author to exist only as deceptive appearances, and not as realities. The appearance of tendon is particularly shovni, with its rows of elongated particles rendered evident by acetic acid, coloured by carmine, and most numerous in the young. Dr. Beale believes that the true interpretation is to be found by calling the nuclei germinal matter, and the white, glistening fibres its formed material. The theory of morbid growths the author explains by saying that tissue may be supposed to have an unlimited potentiality of growth, but, in a normal state, it is restrained by vai'ious circumstances, of which the action of the lymphatics, and the growth of the lymph-corpuscles within them, whereby excess of nutrient matter is taken up, is probably one. But if the natural limiting powers be interfered with, any tissue may grow. A simple tissue, as the fibrous, may generate a tumour like itself; in the more complex, as muscle, the resemblance soon ceases. Thus, scirrhus of the pylorus appears to begin with an increase of the muscle-cells in number; next, they get a fibrous look, although they retain the structiu-al form, just as the muscular fibres of the uterus of the mouse may be seen to shade oft' into areolar tissue, by every possible gradation. Those structures which naturally grow the fastest may give rise to the most rapid and unrestrainable morbid growths; and in these two parts are distinguishable, viz., a matrix of exagge- rated fibrous tissue and descendants of the normal gland- or tissue-cells, in every degree of alteration. Between a cancer-cell and the natural cell or elementary part of the tissue there may be every gradation. With regard to the propagation or diftusion of morbid growths, he gave the analogous instance of transplantation of tissues, as of hair, teeth, and periosteum, and expressed his belief that exti-emely minute spherical portions of the germinal matter may find their way into the blood- vessels and lymphatics, and be deposited and grow in other organs. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' May 4th to 25th.) Satoby, Wm. S. (Bartholomew's).—On the relation of the Vegetable and Animal to the Inorganic Kingdom. Lancet, June 8th, p. 553 ; and June 15th, p. 579. In this lecture, which was delivered at the Eoyal Institution, Savory remarks that plants and animals, when viewed in the relation in which they stand to inorganic substances, may fairly be regarded as together constituting one gi-eat kingdom of nature—the organized. For how- ever Avidely their more advanced members may be separated, there can be no denial of the fact that plants and animals are connected by common characters—those very characters by which they are especially distinguished from the inorganic kingdom. Very many of the proposed means of distinction between organized and inorganic bodies apply with great force to the more advanced animals aud plants, but they are found to be at fault when tested by those cases in which organization and life appear to be reduced to their simplest terms. The supposed essential difference in structure between organized and