NERVOUS SYSTEM. 35 it proves that the sites of the graiuilatioua coiucide witli those of greatest friction, which is therefore supposed to be their cause. Mautiikeb, Jj.—Contnbudons to a Knowledge of the Movplioloffical Ele- ments of the Nervous Si/stem. Sitz. ber. d. Math. CI. d. Akad. d. Wiss., vol. xxxix, p. .383. Canst., vol. i, p. ^i. This is au attempt to distinguish the diiierent microscopic elements of the nervous system, by the different degrees of colour produced in them by the carminate of ammonia. Beeh-A-HD, Vvot—Lectures on tie 8j)i7icd Cord. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 5, 1861, and succeeding numbers. Lecture i. On the general properties of the nervous system.—It has lonf been observed, that certain conditions of the body exert a peculiar influence over nervous sensibility. An irritation which at one time would scarcely be obsBrved, at another time may give rise to acute suffering, and even constitutional disturbance. Such a state, however, is not always to be regarded as the result of morbid action. Tor example, the pneumogasti'ic nerve may in the majority of fasting animals, be excited without giving rise to pain, while the same stimulus applied to the nerve duriug the digestive process is attended viath acute suffering. This is due to the increased vascularity of the mucous coat of the stomach during the digestive process and the corresponding effect it produces on the delicate terminations of the pneumogastric nerve. The properties of a nerve, may, therefore, be said to be modified by the state of the organ in the substance of which it terminates. Bernard makes the following interesting remarks on the eflect of pain upon animals. He begins by putting the question—"When an animal gives no expression of pain, are we entitled to conclude that none is felt ? We have frequently employed, says he, to our full satisfaction, an ingenious method of ascertaining the fact, in such cases,—we allude to the cardiouieter. This instrument merely consists of a delicate mano- meter, which is adapted to some large artery (the common carotid in general,) for the purpose of measuring the pressure of the blood, and the intensity of the heart's action; now the sensibility of this organ is such, that latent impressions (so to speak), or sensations which no outward sign betrays, are at once revealed by the sudden augmentation of its im- pulsive power; the well-known eftects of moral emotion afford a trite instance of this. A nerve after being laid bare, may be touched so lightly as not to provoke the least agitation; but the rapid ascension of the mer- cury contained in the tube of the instrument, immediately informs us of the impression produced upon the sensitive apparatus. On the other hand, when the posterior roots have been cut, all excitability being destroj^ed, the peripheral extremities of the divided nerves may be pinched, bruised, burnt, or otherwise acted upon, without altering the level of the mercm-ial column in the slightest degree ; an implicit reliance may therefore be placed upon tliis valuable instrument, which frequently enlightens, but never misgvudes, the physiologist. Prom this it appears that the pulse is the natural index of the amount of ])ain.