RKPOHT OX TlIK IXSTJTUTES OF JIKDIC'IXK. as of nioriil influeuces ou the rapidity and force of tlie circulation. So it may be said tliat according to tlie author, the lieart's action is regu- lated by the state of the blood-vessels throughout the whole body. Leahed, AiiTuuii, M.D. (Great North. IIosp.)—0/t the Sounds cavsrd h/ the Cirenintion of the Blood, pp. 22. This ])amphlet is n thesis read iu the University of Dublin for the degree of M..U., iu i860. In it tlic author nays that the first and necond sounds of the heart originate at tlie outlets of the two great vessels, and that they are essentially the same as regards their mechanism. ist Sound.—The first sound coincides Avith the ventricular systole, and is caused as follows:—Blood having been forcibly driven from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary artery, comes into forcible contact with blood in these vessels, which, supported by the semilunar valves, had attained a state of momentary repose. The'impact between the fluid iu motion and that in a state of rest gives rise to the sound. 2nd Sound.—The second sound, the author says, occurs during diastole, and iu its mechanism closely resembles the first. The blood having been driven with much force into the aorta and pulmonarj' artery, a portion of it recoils, but is checked in its rapid descent towards the heart by the semilunar valves. The sound is caused by the concussion thus induced, the force of which is, however, by no means sustained by the valves alone, for they are thoroughly supported by the ventricles and theii" contents. This is obvioiis, since there can be no approach to a vacuum in the heart. The valves are to be regarded as separating media, which do not themselves sustain the force of the descending blood. A valve thus supported is known in the arts as an equilibrium valve. Makkham, Dr. (St. Mary's).—Eemnvks on the Cause of the Closure of the Valves of the Heart. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 43. The author says—(i) The closure is effected during different periods of the heart's action, and may be divided into two stages. During the first stage (i. e. during the ventricular diastole) the valves gradually rise up towards each other, pari passii with the distension of the ven- tricles, so that their free borders come into loose contact. The second stage corresponds with the venti'icular systole, whereby the valves are suddenlj' and forcibly brought into firm and perfect contact by the pressure of the blood. (2) The valves are raised towards each other during this first stage of their closure by the agency of elastic tissue, so disposed in the valves as to act iu a manner at once most simple and efiective. The aiu-iculo-ventricular and the semilunar valves have aU essentially the same structiu-e. They are formed of elastic membrane, and inelastic white fibrous cords. In the case of the auriculo-ventricular valves, as observed iu a bullock's heart, a thickish layer of elastic mem- brane may be readily dissected from tlie auricular surface of the valve. This elastic membrane is retractile in all directions, but its fibres seem to run chiefly iu a direction from the attached to the loose border of .the valves. The lower (ventricular) surface of the valves may be said to consist of white fibrous cords—the prolongations into them of the chordso tendinese, united together by elastic tissue. (3) At the end of