KEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. and now malccs public. Having, in several instances, removed tlie brain ot a rabbit, and inflicted severe injury on tlie pons, the animal commenced to revolve on its longitudinal axis as actively as if the braiu had not been removed. Injury of the cerebellum of pigeons which had been deprived of the cerebrum, produced the same disorder of move- ment as if the latter remained intact. After removal of the cerebrum in pigeons, it was found that section of each of the semicircular cauals (in difterent individuals), produced its ordinary effect; that of the horizontal canals causing liorizontal movements, and that of the antero-posterior and postero-anterior vertical canals respectively causin" vertical movements from before backwards and from behind forward" The author promises to give, in a future memoir, an explanation of these remarkable coincidences in the direction of the canals and the movements. . BoKSABELLi, Prof.—On the quantity of PhoHphorus found in the Brain of Man and AnimaU. Omodei's Ann. Universali, vol. dxxvi, p. 407. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 31st, p. 329. The conclusions at which Professor Borsarelli has arrived after various aualyses are stated in the Medical Times and Gazette to be—(i) That the medium quantity of phosphorus found in the brain of man and some other animals is more than triple the quantity assigned to this organ by Persoz and Opermaun. It varies from i\3_52 to 1790 per cent. (3) The phos- phorus of the animal economy is found in the largest quantity in the brain, in a less proportion in muscle, and in a still less proportion in the stomach. (3) In man, the quantity of pbosphorus increases in a decided manner in proportion to his years, in the braiu and in the muscular flesh, and in a less marked manner in the stomach. (4) The smaller quantity of phosphorus found in individuals under piibei'ty, whose de- velojmient is not com2)leted, arises from the greater quantity of this metalloid required for the solid parts of the frame. (5) The diflierence in the quantity found in an adult or a person of advanced age, and an individual under puberty, amounts for the brain to i'i4 as com- pared to I, and for the muscular substance to 3'19 as compared to 1. (6) The amount of phosphorus found in the adult or aged person, and in the ox, the calf, the sheep and the hog (with the exception of the flesh of the latter), is very much the same—the average being, as regards the brain, i"56o in man, and i\553 in other animals ; and as regards the muscular substance, 0-873 in the former, and 0-876 in the latter. In the hog, however, the flesh contains 1-012, being richer in phosphorus than that of the other animals. This may be one of the reasons why the flesh of this animal is more stimulating than that of the others. (7) Flesh by boiling in water loses one-half of its phosphorus ; so that the flesh of the hog, which uncooked contains roi2 per cent., after boiling contains only 0-567. Hence it is that boiled meats are found to be most suitable for the convalescence of those who have suftered from hyper£Esthetic diseases, and roasted meats to those whose strength has become exhausted by diseases of a debilitating character. The good eifects of meat so cooked do not, however, arise solely from the presence of a greater or lesser proportion of phosphoric compounds. They also contain a