192 llia'OIlT ON JMiACTlr.U, MKUICIN'E. cases of pyaimia following superficial wounds, internal abscesses, &c., also the so-styled idiopathic. Series vi consists of eighteen cases of pyaemia following disease of the urinary organs, connected with stricture, lithotomy, extravasation of urine, &c. Series vii gives three cases of pyoemia resulting from carbuncle. Series viii, ix, x, xi, treat of pyaemia from aural disease and ocular, from burns, and from uterine afi'ections. Series xii, xm, xiv, relate to the association of pysemia with erysipelas, gangrene, and phlebitis. Series xv contains cases and remarks on death by exhaustion in connexion with pyoemia. Series xvi and xvii illustrate the occurrence of fibrinous concretions in the pulmonary artery and in the arterial system and viscera. With regard to these, Wilks considers that it is quite possible the concretion may be produced by excess of fibrin in the blood, with a general cachectic condition, or may be deposited secondarily to the affection of the viscus to which the vessel leads, or in consequence of disease of the coats of the latter. lie says—"Just as pus propagates pus, so does fibrin appear to produce fibrin." Series xviii contains some cases and remarks tending to approximate the secondary deposits of pyaemia and new growths. Series xix treats of pyaemia cured. RiGLER.—On Ammonicemia. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., ii to 13, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 175. Rigler considers that ammoniaemia and uraemia cannot be accurately separated, inasmuch as tlie first gives rise to the second, and the converse. He gives, however, nine points of distinction between the two states; some of these are the greater thirst and more frequent vomiting in ammo- niaemia, as well as rigors ; the earlier occurrence of epileptoid paroxysms and of intellectual and sensory disorder in uraemia ; the tendency to maras- mus, mummification, and general erethism in ammoniaemia. FoNSSAGRiVES and Woillez.—On Engorffemeht of the Bronchial Glands in Adults as a cause of Asphyxia. L'Union Med., Oct. loth and 15th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 30th. After describing (i) tubercular engorgement, (2) melanic hyper- trophy, (3) simple hypertrophy, (4) cancerous engorgement, Fonssa- grives points out the following as the principal diagnostic symptoms:— increasing dyspnoea, accompanied by a crisis or an attack of suffocation; cough habitually dry, or followed by frothy expectoration, occurring in paroxysms and accompanied by attacks of suffocation ; pain either absent or very severe and obstinate, and when acute, referred to the side of the chest corresponding with the seat of disease; most commonly a siqiple sensation of oppression in the anterior part of the chest; weakness of voice, or asphyxia, which in one case appeared suddenly; and jerking, irregular respiration at the moment of the attacks of suffocation. The percussion sound is normal or exaggerated. Palpitation often detects an increase of the normal thoracic vibrations, and, under one or the other, clavicle frottements, due to large, sonorous rales, which are audible even at a distance, and to which Fonssagrives attaches much importance. There is also weakness of the respiratory murmur, which Woilkz regards as a valuable sign, but Fonssagrives does not. The subacute or chronic