163 NERVOUS SYSTEM. enabling U8 to explain the varieties of paralysis which are met -with. Thus, owing to the decussation of the facial nerves at the base of the brain', an organic alteration in one half of the pons Varolii will produce paralysis on both sides of the face, or on the affected, or on the opposite, according as the lesion is situated in the middle part of the right side of the pons, or in the lower, or in the upper; while in all three cases the paralysis of the trunk and limbs is limited to the side opposite to that of the alteration. The symptoms of disease at the base of the brain may be ranked as—(i) those due to a loss of action ; (2) those due to an irrita- tion. Brown-Sequard then proceeds to point out the means of distin- guishing the exact seat of the lesion in various instances. Thus, if the alteration be situated below the decussation of the anterior pyramids in a lateral half of the spinal cord, the trunk and limbs are deprived of volun- tary motor power on the same side, but are anaesthetic on the opposite. If the alteration is at the level of the decussation of the anterior pyramids in a lateral half of the medulla oblongata, anaesthesia will exist only in the opposite half of the body, but both halves will be paralysed of motion. If, again, the alteration be above the decussation of the anterior pyramids in a lateral half of the medulla oblongata, the motor and sensory paralysis are both in the opposite half of the body. With regard to organic disease at the base of the brain, its precise seat v?ill generally be determined by observing what cranial nerves are paralysed. Thus, hemiplegia of one side, and amaurosis and facial paralysis (all on the same side), with palsy of the opposite fourth nerve, indicate lesion of the corpora quadrigemina. As to paralysis of vaso-motor nerves, it appears that the consequent in- crease of temperature is on the side of the lesion when it is in the spinal cord, medulla oblongata, or pons Varolii; and in the opposite side when the lesion is in other parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. With regard to irri- tation symptoms, muscular contractions are scarcely produced unless the fibres are affected by inflammation ; the muscles of the upper and lower extremities are most frequently affected, those of the l.irynx, phai'ynx, and organic life, most rarely. Irritation of vaso-motor or nutritive nervous elements may produce inflammation in remote parts—the lungs, the eye, or the face. Irritation of incito-motor and sensory nerve-fibres may also give rise to signs which aid in determining the seat of disease. Lec- ture III treats of the diagnosis of haemorrhage in the cerebellum. The following points are indicated as available in diagnosis. Local paralysis is loss frequent, but a general weakness is constant. In particular facial paralysis is absent. The facial muscles lose their expression. The tongue does not deviate to one side. The ocular and masticatory muscles are not paralysed, but the state of the pupils is usually altered, they being either dilated or contracted. Hypersesthesia has been observed in several cases, anaesthesia is rare. The four liead senses are much less often affected in cerebellar than in cerebral haemorrhage. Convulsions are frequent. Vomiting is frequent and persistent. Coma, when present, is simply tlie effect of pressure on the brain. Disorder of voluntary movements has been observed in only a few cases. Hemiplegia is clearly dependent on the pressure of the effused blood on one side of the pons Varolii, and anseslhesia, when it exists, is owing to the same cause. Convulsion's are usually produced in the same way, sometimes also from irritation of an