90 EEPOUT ON' TITE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Thi3 anatomist's general account of the fullieular and lymphatic glands is in essential agreement with that of Hiss, given below. He especially insists—(i) that none of them possess a closed capsule, but merge insensibly into the neighbouring cellular tissue; (2) that the globular form, ajiparent on tiie surface, is not essential, for they often blend together below; and (3) that there is no ground for supposing that the follicles stand in less intimate relation to the absorbents than do the acini of the lymphatic glands, for which reason he classes both Orders together, under the name of conglobate (/laruk. Hiss.—ConIribnfions to onr Tcnowledge of ilie Glands appertaining to the Lijmpliaiic System. Ztschr. f. Wisseusch. Zool., vol.i, p. 333, Canst., vol. i, pp. 70, 78, 85, 140. This observer regards as essentially allied, the lymphatic glands, the thymus, Peyer's and the solitary glands, the tonsils, follicular glands, and Malpighian corpuscles, (i) Septa of connective tissue divide these glands into their alveoli, acini, or follicles; from these septa capillaries enter the enclosed spaces, and there anastomose. (2) Amid these vessels, and nnited with their connective tissue and tliat of the septa, lies a network, formed in the main of ramified and anastomosing, uni-nucleated cells, and enclosing lymph-corpuscles. (3) A second system of reticulation found in these glandular organs is formed by the continuations of the lymphatic vessels. (4) A third trabecular system consists of straight and sparingly branched filaments, extended from vessel to vessel, or from these to the septa, nucleated at their vascular insertions, and often midway in their course. All these structures appertain to the connective tissue, merge into one another and blend Avith the septa. (5) Numerous researches have convinced the author that the vessels do not inosculate with any of these struc- tures, though the capillaries are encased by nucleated and multicau- date cells similar to and continuous with the network first delineated. The various systems here reviewed are destined, the author thinks, for the ti'ansmission of the sap concerned in the glandular metamorphosis. The author has carefully studied the thjmns in calves, pups, and kittens. He finds that—(i) All the lobules are connected with a central spiral cord, or with its ramifications, the vessels entering with the cord by a hilus. (2) Each lobule consists of some fifty acini, which blend with one another towards the centre of the lobule, and have each a cavity con- taining fluid. (3) These cavities communicate with one another, and with (4) the oft-denied central canal, which, as a careful preparation will show, unites with the areolar tissue and blood-vessels, to connect the lobules with one another, and is beset from place to place with acinuli. This central canal, which resembles a lymphatic vessel, is -J-'" in diameter, has walls of delicate areolar tissue, and is filled with lymph-corpuscles. With respect to the minute structure and the function of the acini— (1) Their capsule, externally limited by connective tissue, consists of delicate blood-vessels supported by a dense network of ramified cells, similar to that of the lymphatic glands, the intervals of which are occupied by an albuminous fluid holding lymph-corpuscles in slispeusion. (2) Their contents consist of cells and ""concentric bodies." (3) The