JOINTS. 275 (b) Penetraling Wounils. ^■sxsh-^Y.—Wound hy a Ilatcltet pcnetrcding the Knee-joint; recovery. Med. Times and'Gaz., Aug. .31st, p. 219. ^ , . Bauee.—CWse of J^erforatincj Wound of the left Knee-jomt; Gelatinous Deaeneration of the Synovial Memhrane ; peculiar appearance of the Articular Cartilac/es ; Fehble-stone in the Joint; amputation. Plnla- delpliia Med. and Surg. Kep., May 4tli, p. 114- PuEEPOY, 1.—Extensive Laceration of the Knee-joint; recovery. Dublin Med. Press, Dec. iSth, p. 424. GoEE, W. E.—Aids to the Conservative Surgery of the Joints. Being the details of a few remarlcahle cases of recovery from dangerous and extensive accidents of these structures. Dublin Med. Press, Jan. 23i'(i, p. 55- Pateubak, Prof. V. —A case tuhere a piece of a Bough remained for a long time in the neighbourhood of the Shoulder-joint. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.jVi, 25, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 71. A man fell backwards upon a shrub. On rising he felt violent pain sbootiug through the whole left arm to tbe tips of the fingers. The pain subsided after a quarter of an hour, and the man thought he had come off with merely a hole in his coat and shirt under the armpit. But the fingers of his left hand soon became stifi", and in the evening the wrist and elbow-joint were acutely painful. This the patient attributed to rheumatism, and wrapped up the joints in wadding. In spite of this the pain in the whole arm grew more severe. The fifth ]iight was passed with out "sleep, and on the sixth a violent twitching of the nape and side of the neck began, and there was slight trismus. The fingers were swollen; the left shoulder-joint could not be moved; the patient was feverish and jaundiced. In the armpit, which was now for the first time examined by a surgeon with the finger (in consequence of the great swelling and the tetanic rigidity of the muscles of the shoulder, it could not be brought into sight), a hard, immoveable body Avas detected near the origin of the long head of the triceps, touching wliich threw the patient into the most violent pain. The conviction that this was a foreign body was confirmed by the presence of blood on the shirt, which had been previously overlooked. Patruban cut down on it, and pulled out a piece of branch 2i" long and ,3"' thick. This was followed by recovery, and the man returned to his occupation of turner. Six montlis afterwards an abscess formed at the scar, and discharged a splinter of Cornus sanguinea 21-" long. (c) Forcible Rupture of Anchylosed Joints. Bxvn.-r-Iicflections on the method of Immediate Reposition in the treat- ment of White Swellings, and particularly of Hip-joint Disease, Thesis, Strasbourg, 1859.