DISEASES OF WOMEN. 369 in general. He admits two great varieties—the one wliich has its origin in the ovary, the most rare ; and the other tuhal or cntamenial, which has its origin in the mucous membrane of the tnt)e or its free extremity, and •which'takes place at the moment of the menstrnal flow. In the case of obstrnction at the cervix, tliere may be reflux tliroiigli the tubes. A case is next related where the effusion of blood took place in the peri- uterine cellular tissue, and was sub-peritoneal, the_ ovary itself being diseased. The diagnosis of hsematocele is carefully pointed out. Haemor- rhage and peritonitis are the two sources of danger ; hsemorrhage is to be treated by hseuiostatics, local and general, use of ice, rhatany, sulphuric acid, ergot ; peritonitis by narcotics, stnpifying agents, opium, bellatlonna. Puncture is reprobated. MAnCE, Dr.—On Uterine Hcematucele. Obst. Trans., vol. iii (with plates). The author relates a case which proved fatal, and eives a full account of the history and of the post-mortem appearances. The patient, 8et. 24, had had three children, the youngest six yenrs old. The aitack began with violent hypogastric pain on the second day of menstrual period, a week after, while recovering she took a walk, during which, the discharge re- I appeared ; faiutness and extreme collapse set in ; peritonitic symptoms ; appearance of a large, tender abdominal tumour next noticed ; the tumour I filled the pelvis, pushing back the uterus and reacliing up to the umbilicus. I A few days later discharge of blood from rectum. At next menstrual period, anaemic condition, collapse, &c., again noticed, and following this phlegmasia dolens; after further profuse discharge of blood from rectum, exhaustion supervened, and death. A large cavity forming the hsematocele occupied the pelvis ; above, the intestines, matted together, formed limit of the cavity ; a large clot. The left ovarian capsule was distended and divided into two cells containing clots, and communicating with the : hsematocele cavity. There was much thickening of the broad ligaments I and lining of the pelvis. Both Fallopian tubes impervious ; an opening from the cavity of the hsematocele into the rectum at its upper tliird. The case was one of " intra-peritoneal" uterine hsematocele, produced by bleeding from the ovarian vessels at menstrual periods, and in which I operative measures would have been ineffectual. The differential diag- nosis of the affection is touched upon, the author expressing his belief that many cases pass under observation, but are not recognised as such, owing to the limited knowledge of the subject. PaiESTLEY, Dr.--Case of Pelvic Hematocele. Med. Times and Gaz,, Feb. i6th, 1861, p. 173. The patient was married, and had had a child. After rtienorrhagia of four Nveeks' duration, severe pain set in, profuse hsemorrhage, suppression of urine, and appearance of a swelling above the pubis. A tumour of large size was found in the pelvis behind the uterus. Hsemorrhage after- wards occurred from the rectum, the tumour gradually diminishing in size. The patient was reported as recovering. Hegar, Alfred.—A case of Feri-uterine Haematocele, with remarks on the' History and Diaynoiis of the Affection. Mon. f. Geb., June 1861, p. 418. ' I